THE NEW MORNING

ALFRED NOYES


       *       *       *       *       *


WORKS OF ALFRED NOYES

COLLECTED POEMS--_2 Vols._
THE LORD OF MISRULE
A BELGIAN CHRISTMAS EVE
THE WINE-PRESS
WALKING SHADOWS--_Prose_
TALES OF THE MERMAID TAVERN
SHERWOOD
THE ENCHANTED ISLAND AND OTHER POEMS
DRAKE: AN ENGLISH EPIC
POEMS
THE FLOWER OF OLD JAPAN
THE GOLDEN HYNDE
THE NEW MORNING


       *       *       *       *       *


THE NEW MORNING

Poems

by

ALFRED NOYES


[Illustration (publisher's logo)]


New York
Frederick A. Stokes Company
Publishers

Copyright, 1918, by
Alfred Noyes
Copyright, 1919, by
Frederick A. Stokes Company
All rights reserved, including that of translation
into foreign languages


DEDICATION

TO THE MEMORY OF SIR CECIL
SPRING-RICE


I.

Steadfast as any soldier of the line
  He served his England, with the imminent death
Poised at his heart. Nor could the world divine
  The constant peril of each burdened breath.

England, and the honour of England, he still served
  Walking the strict path, with the old high pride
Of those invincible knights who never swerved
  One hair's breadth from the way until they died.

Quietness he loved, and books, and the grave beauty
  Of England's Helicon, whose eternal light
Shines like a lantern on that road of duty,
  Discerned by few in this chaotic night.

And his own pen, foretelling his release,
Told us that he foreknew "the end was peace."


II.

Soldier of England, he shall live unsleeping
  Among his friends, with the old proud flag above;
For even today her honour is in his keeping.
  He has joined the hosts that guard her with their love.

They shine like stars, unnumbered happy legions,
  In that high realm where all our darkness dies.
He moves, with honour, in those loftier regions,
  Above this "world of passion and of lies":

For so he called it, keeping his own pure passion
  A silent flame before the true and good;
Not fawning on the throng in this world's fashion
  To come and see what all might see who would.

Soldier of England, brave and gentle knight,
The soul of Sidney welcomes you tonight.


CONTENTS

                                               PAGE

DEDICATION: TO THE MEMORY OF SIR CECIL
SPRING-RICE                                       v

  "THE AVENUE OF THE ALLIES"                      3

  ON THE WESTERN FRONT                            8

  VICTORY                                        10


AMERICAN POEMS, 1912-1917

  REPUBLIC AND MOTHERLAND                        19

  THE UNION                                      22

  GHOSTS OF THE NEW WORLD                        24

  THE OLD MEETING HOUSE                          27

  PRINCETON                                      30

  BEETHOVEN IN CENTRAL PARK                      34


SONGS OF THE TRAWLERS AND SEA POEMS

  THE PEOPLE'S FLEET                             37

  KILMENY                                        38

  CAP'N STORM-ALONG                              40

  THE BIG BLACK TRAWLER                          42

  NAMESAKES                                      44

  WIRELESS                                       46

  FISHERS OF MEN                                 48

  AN OPEN BOAT                                   50

  PEACE IN A PALACE                              52

  THE VINDICTIVE                                 55


MISCELLANEOUS POEMS

  THE CHIMNEY-SWEEPS OF CHELTENHAM               61

  TO A SUCCESSFUL MAN                            66

  THE OLD GENTLEMAN WITH THE AMBER SNUFFBOX      68

  WHAT GRANDFATHER SAID                          71

  MEMORIES OF THE PACIFIC COAST                  75

  NIPPON                                         77

  THE HUMMING BIRDS                              79

  LINES FOR A SUN-DIAL                           81

  THE REALMS OF GOLD                             82

  COMPENSATIONS                                  85

  DEAD MAN'S MORRICE                             87

  THE OLD FOOL IN THE WOOD                       90

  A NEW MADRIGAL TO AN OLD MELODY                91

  THE LOST BATTLE                                94

  RIDDLES OF MERLIN                              96

  THE SYMPHONY                                   98

  PEACE                                          99

  THE OPEN DOOR                                 100

  IMMORTAL SAILS                                102

  THE MATIN-SONG OF FRIAR TUCK                  103

  FIVE CRITICISMS                               105

  THE COMPANIONS                                114

  THE LITTLE ROADS                              116

  SUNLIGHT AND SEA                              118

  THE ROAD THROUGH CHAOS                        121

  THE NIGHT OF THE LION                         123

  THE WAR WIDOW                                 126

  THE BELL                                      128

  SLAVE AND EMPEROR                             132

  ON A MOUNTAIN-TOP                             134


EARLY POEMS

  THE PHANTOM FLEET                             139

  MICHAEL OAKTREE                               147


TOUCHSTONE ON A BUS

  TOUCHSTONE ON A BUS                           159

    I THE NEW DUCKLING                          160

   II THE MAN WHO DISCOVERED THE USE A CHAIR    161

  III COTTON-WOOL                               164

   IV FASHIONS                                  166


EPILOGUE

  THE REWARD OF SONG                            171


THE NEW MORNING


"THE AVENUE OF THE ALLIES"


This is the song of the wind as it came
Tossing the flags of the nations to flame:

    _I am the breath of God. I am His laughter.
I am His Liberty. And only a thin skin of metal, rotten with brittle welding spots,
stood between them.

It wanted in--the Nothing wanted in. He
knew, then, that Horne and Silverman
had not been insane. It wanted in and someday
it would get in.
When it did it would explode him and jerk out
his guts and lungs. Not until that
happened, not until the Nothing
filled the bubble and enclosed his hideous,
turned-inside-out body would it ever
be content ...
    
* * * * *
He had long since quit wearing the
magnetized shoes, afraid the vibration of
them would weaken the bubble still more. And
he began noticing sections where the bubble did not seem to be
perfectly concave, as though the rolling mill had pressed the metal
too thin in places and it was swelling out like an over-inflated
balloon.

    He could not remember when he had last
attended to the instruments.

Nothing was important but the danger that
surrounded him. He knew the danger was rapidly
increasing because whenever he pressed his ear
to the wall he could hear the almost inaudible
tickings and vibrations as the bubble's skin
contracted or expanded and the Nothing
tapped and searched with its empty fingers for
a flaw or crack that it could tear into a leak.

But the windows were far the worst, with the
Nothing staring in at him day and night.
There was no escape from it. He could feel it
watching him, malignant and gloating,
even when he hid his eyes in his hands.

The time came when he could stand it no
longer. The cot had a blanket and he used
that together with all his spare clothes to make a tent stretching
from the table to the first instrument panel.

    When he crawled under it he found that the
lower half of one window could still see him.

He used the clothes he was wearing
to finish the job and it was much better then,
hiding there in the concealing darkness where
the Nothing could not see him.

He did not mind going naked--the
temperature regulators in the bubble
never let it get too cold.

He had no conception of time from then on. He emerged
only when necessary to bring more food into
his tent. He could still hear the Nothing
tapping and sucking in its ceaseless search
for a flaw and he made such emergences as brief
as possible, wishing that he did not
have to come out at all. Maybe if he could
hide in his tent for a long time and
never make a sound it would get tired and
go away ...

Sometimes he thought of the cruiser and wished
they would come for him but most of the time
he thought of the thing that was outside,
trying to get in to kill him. When the strain
became too great he would draw himself up in
the position he had once occupied in his
mother's womb and pretend he had never left Earth. It
was easier there.

But always, before very long, the bubble would
tick or whisper and he would freeze in terror,
thinking, _This time it's coming in ..._ 
* * * * *
Then one day, suddenly, two men were peering under his tent at him.

    One of them said, "My God--_again!_" and he
wondered what he meant.

But they were very nice to him and helped him put
on his clothes. Later, in the cruiser, everything
was hazy and they kept asking him what he
was afraid of.

"What was it--what did you find?"
He tried hard to think so he could explain it.
"It was--it was Nothing."
"What were you and Horne and Silverman afraid
of--what was it?" the voice demanded
insistently.

"I told you," he said. "Nothing."
They stared at him and the haziness cleared
a little as he saw they did not understand.
He wanted them to believe him because
what he told them was so very true.

"It wanted to kill us. Please--can't you believe
me? It was waiting outside the bubble to
kill us."
But they kept staring and he knew they didn't believe him.

They didn't _want_ to
believe him ...

Everything turned hazy again and he started to cry.

He was glad when the doctor took his
  hand to lead him away ...

  The bubble was carefully inspected, inside and out, and nothing was
found.

When it was time for Green's replacement to be
  transferred to it Larkin reported to Captain
McDowell.
  
"Everything is ready, Larkin," McDowell said. "You're
  the next one. I wish we knew what the danger
is." He scowled. "I still think one of my roustabouts
  from the engine room might give us a sane report six months from
now instead of the babblings we'll get from you."

He felt his face flush and he said stiffly, "I suggest, sir, that
you not jump to conclusions until that time comes." 
* * * * *
The cruiser vanished back into hyperspace and he was alone inside
the observation bubble, ten thousand light-years beyond the galaxy's
outermost sun.The very hills were stirred.
The silence of the dead was all I heard.


II.

We, who lie here, have nothing more to pray.
  To all your praises we are deaf and blind.
We may not even know if you betray
  Our hope, to make earth better for mankind.

Only our silence, in the night, shall grow
  More silent, as the stars grow in the sky;
And, while you deck our graves, you shall not know
  How many scornful legions pass you by.

For we have heard you say (when we were living)
  That some small dream of good would "cost too much."
But when the foe struck, we have watched you giving,
  And seen you move the mountains with one touch.

What can be done, we know. But, have no fear!
If you fail now, we shall not see or hear.


VICTORY

(Written after the British Service at Trinity Church, New York)


I.

Before those golden altar-lights we stood,
  Each one of us remembering his own dead.
A more than earthly beauty seemed to brood
  On that hushed throng, and bless each bending head.

Beautiful on that gold, the deep-sea blue
  Of those young seamen, ranked on either side,
Blent with the khaki, while the silence grew
  Deep, as for wings--Oh, deep as England's pride.

Beautiful on that gold, two banners rose--
  Two flags that told how Freedom's realm was made,
One fair with stars of hope, and one that shows
  The glorious cross of England's long crusade;

Two flags, now joined, till that high will be done
Which sent them forth to make the whole world one.


II.

There were no signs of joy that eyes could see.
  Our hearts were all three thousand miles away.
There were no trumpets blown for victory.
  A million dead were calling us that day.

And eyes grew blind, at times; but grief was deep,
  Deeper than any foes or friends have known;
For Oh, my country's lips are locked to keep
  Her bitterest loss her own, and all her own.

Only the music told what else was dumb,
  The funeral march to which our pulses beat;
For all our dead went by, to a muffled drum
  We heard the tread of all those phantom feet.

Yes. There was victory! Deep in every soul.
We heard them marching to their unseen goal.


III.

There, once again, we saw the Cross go by,
  The Cross that fell with all those glorious towers,
Burnt black in France or mocked on Calvary,
  Till--in one night--the crosses rose like flowers,
Legions of small white crosses, mile on mile,
  Pencilled with names that had outfought all pain,
Where every shell-torn acre seems to smile--
  _Who shall destroy the cross that rose again?_

Out of the world's Walpurgis, where hope perished,
  Where all the forms of faith in ruin fell,
Where every sign of heaven that earth had cherished
  Shrivelled among the lava-floods of hell,

The eternal Cross that conquers might with right
Rose like a star to lead us through the night.


IV.

How shall the world remember? Men forget:
  Our dead are all too many even for Fame!
Man's justice kneels to kings, and pays no debt
  To those who never courted her acclaim.

Cheat not your heart with promises to pay
  For gifts beyond all price so freely given.
Where is the heart so rich that it can say
  To those who mourn, "I will restore your heaven"?

But these, with their own hands, laid up their treasure
  Where never an emperor can break in and steal,
Treasure for those that loved them past all measure
  In those high griefs that earth can never heal,

Proud griefs, that walk on earth, yet gaze above,
Knowing that sorrow is but remembered love.


V.

Love that still holds us with immortal power,
  Yet cannot lift us to His realm of light;
Love that still shows us heaven for one brief hour
  Only to daunt the heart with that sheer height;

Love that is made of loveliness entire
  In form and thought and act; and still must shame us
Because we ever acknowledge and aspire,
  And yet let slip the shining hands that claim us.

O, if this Love might cloak with rags His glory,
  Laugh, eat and drink, and dwell with suffering men,
Sit with us at our hearth, and hear our story,
  This world--we thought--might be transfigured then.

"But Oh," Love answered, with swift human tears,
"All these things have I done, these many years."


VI.

"This day," Love said, "if ye will hear my voice;
  I mount and sing with birds in all your skies.
I am the soul that calls you to rejoice.
  And every wayside flower is my disguise.

"Look closely. Are the wings too wide for pity?
  Look closely. Do these tender hues betray?
How often have I sought my Holy City?
  How often have ye turned your hearts away?

"Is there not healing in the beauty I bring you?
  Am I not whispering in green leaves and rain,
Singing in all that woods and seas can sing you?
  Look, once, on Love, and earth is heaven again.

"O, did your Spring but once a century waken,
The heaven of heavens for this would be forsaken."


VII.

There's but one gift that all our dead desire,
  One gift that men can give, and that's a dream,
Unless we, too, can burn with that same fire
  Of sacrifice; die to the things that seem;

Die to the little hatreds; die to greed;
  Die to the old ignoble selves we knew;
Die to the base contempts of sect and creed,
  And rise again, like these, with souls as true.

Nay (since these died before their task was finished)
  Attempt new heights, bring even their dreams to birth:--
Build us that better world, Oh, not diminished
  By one true splendor that they planned on earth.

And that's not done by sword, or tongue, or pen,
There's but one way. God make us better men.


AMERICAN POEMS 1912-1917


REPUBLIC AND MOTHERLAND
(_1912_)

(Written after entering New York Harbor at Daybreak)


Up the vast harbor with the morning sun
  The ship swept in from sea;
Gigantic towers arose, the night was done,
  And--there stood Liberty.

Silent, the great torch lifted in one hand,
  The dawn in her proud eyes,
Silent, for all the shouts that vex her land,
  Silent, hailing the skies;

Hailing that mightier Kingdom of the Blest
  Our seamen sought of old,
The dream that lured the nations through the West,
  The city of sunset gold.

Saxon and Norman in one wedded soul
  Shook out one flag like fire;
But westward, westward, moved the gleaming goal,
  Westward, the vast desire.

Westward and ever westward ran the call,
  They followed the pilgrim sun,
Seeking that land which should enfold them all,
  And weld all hearts in one.

Here on this mightier continent apart,
  Here on these rolling plains,
Swells the first throb of that immortal heart,
  The pulse of those huge veins.

Still, at these towers, our Old-World cities jest,
  And neither hear nor see
The brood of gods at that gigantic breast,
  The conquering race to be.

Chosen from many--for no sluggard soul
  Confronts that night of stars--
The trumpets of the last Republic roll
  Far off, an end to wars;

An end, an end to that wild blood-red age,
  That made and keeps us blind;
A mightier realm shall be her heritage,
  The kingdom of mankind.

Chosen from many nations, and made one;
  But first, O Mother, from thee,
When, following, following on that Pilgrim sun,
  Thy Mayflower crossed the sea.


THE UNION
(_1917_)


You that have gathered together the sons of all races,
  And welded them into one,
Lifting the torch of your Freedom on hungering faces
  That sailed to the setting sun;

You that have made of mankind in your own proud regions
  The music of man to be,
How should the old earth sing of you, now, as your legions
  Rise to set all men free?

How should the singer that knew the proud vision and loved it,
  In the days when not all men knew,
Gaze through his tears, on the light, now the world has approved it;
  Or dream, when the dream comes true?

How should he sing when the Spirit of Freedom in thunder
  Speaks, and the wine-press is red;
And the sea-winds are loud with the chains that are broken asunder
  And nations that rise from the dead?

Flag of the sky, proud flag of that wide communion,
  Too mighty for thought to scan;
Flag of the many in one, and that last world-union
  That kingdom of God in man;

Ours was a dream, in the night, of that last federation,
  But yours is the glory unfurled--
The marshalled nations and stars that shall make one nation
  One singing star of the world.


GHOSTS OF THE NEW WORLD

"_There are no ghosts in America._"


There are no ghosts, you say,
  To haunt her blaze of light;
No shadows in her day,
  No phantoms in her night.
Columbus' tattered sail
Has passed beyond our hail.

What? On that magic coast,
  Where Raleigh fought with fate,
Or where that Devon ghost
  Unbarred the Golden Gate,
No dark, strange, ear-ringed men
Beat in from sea again?

No ghosts in Salem town
  With silver buckled shoon?
No lovely witch to drown
  Or burn beneath the moon?
Not even a whiff of tea,
On Boston's glimmering quay.

O, ghostly Spanish walls,
  Where brown Franciscans glide,
Is there no voice that calls
  Across the Great Divide,
To pilgrims on their way
Along the Santa Fe?

Then let your Pullman cars
  Go roaring to the West,
Till, watched by lonelier stars,
  The cactus lifts its crest.
There, on that painted plain,
One ghost will rise again.

Majestic and forlorn,
  Wreck of a dying race,
The Red Man, half in scorn,
  Shall raise his haughty face,
Inscrutable as the sky,
To watch our ghosts go by.

What? Is earth dreaming still?
  Shall not the night disgorge
The ghosts of Bunker Hill
  The ghosts of Valley Forge,
Or, England's mightiest son,
The ghost of Washington?

No ghosts where Lincoln fell?
  No ghosts for seeing eyes?
I know an old cracked bell
  Shall make ten million rise
When one immortal ghost
Calls to the slumbering host.


THE OLD MEETING HOUSE

(_New Jersey, 1918_)


Its quiet graves were made for peace till Gabriel blows his horn.
  Those wise old elms could hear no cry
  Of all that distant agony--
Only the red-winged blackbird, and the rustle of thick ripe corn.

The blue jay, perched upon that bronze, with bright unweeting eyes,
  Could never read the names that signed
  The noblest charter of mankind;
But all of them were names we knew beneath our English skies.

And on the low gray headstones, with their crumbling weather-stains,
  --Though cardinal birds, like drops of blood,
  Flickered across the haunted wood,--
The names you'd see were names that woke like flowers in English lanes.

John Applegate was fast asleep; and Temperance Olden, too.
  And David Worth had quite forgot
  If Hannah's lips were red or not;
And Prudence veiled her eyes at last, as Prudence ought to do.

And when, across that patch of heaven, that small blue leaf-edged space
  At times, a droning airplane went,
  No flicker of astonishment
Could lift the heavy eyelids on one gossip's up-turned face.

For William Speakman could not tell--so thick the grasses grow--
  If that strange humming in the sky
  Meant that the Judgment Day were nigh,
Or if 'twas but the summer bees that blundered to and fro.

And then, across the breathless wood, a Bell began to sound,
  The only Bell that wakes the dead,
  And Stockton Signer raised his head,
And called to all the deacons in the ancient burial-ground.

"The Bell, the Bell is ringing! Give me back my rusty sword.
  Though I thought the wars were done,
  Though I thought our peace was won,
Yet I signed the Declaration, and the dead must keep their word.

"There's only one great ghost I know could make that 'larum ring.
  It's the captain that we knew
  In the ancient buff and blue,
It's our Englishman, George Washington, who fought the German king!"

So the sunset saw them mustering beneath their brooding boughs,
  Ancient shadows of our sires,
  Kindling with the ancient fires,
While the old cracked Bell to southward shook the ancient meeting house.


PRINCETON
(_1917_)

The first four lines of this poem were written for inscription on the
first joint memorial to the American and British soldiers who fell in
the Revolutionary War. This memorial was recently dedicated at
Princeton.


I.

_Here Freedom stood, by slaughtered friend and foe,
  And ere the wrath paled or that sunset died,
Looked through the ages: then, with eyes aglow,
  Laid them, to wait that future, side by side._


II.

Now lamp-lit gardens in the blue dusk shine
  Through dog-wood red and white,
And round the gray quadrangles, line by line,
  The windows fill with light,
Where Princeton calls to Magdalen, tower to tower,
  Twin lanthorns of the law,
And those cream-white magnolia boughs embower
  The halls of old Nassau.


III.

The dark bronze tigers crouch on either side
  Where red-coats used to pass,
And round the bird-loved house where Mercer died
  And violets dusk the grass,
By Stony Brook that ran so red of old,
  But sings of friendship now,
To feed the old enemy's harvest fifty-fold
  The green earth takes the plough.


IV.

Through this May night if one great ghost should stray
  With deep remembering eyes,
Where that old meadow of battle smiles away
  Its blood-stained memories,
If Washington should walk, where friend and foe
  Sleep and forget the past,
Be sure his unquenched heart would leap to know
  Their hosts are joined at last.


V.

Be sure he walks, in shadowy buff and blue,
  Where those dim lilacs wave,
He bends his head to bless, as dreams come true,
  The promise of that grave,
Then with a vaster hope than thought can scan,
  Touching his ancient sword,
Prays for that mightier realm of God in man,
  "Hasten Thy Kingdom, Lord."


VI.

"Land of new hope, land of the singing stars,
  Type of the world to be,
The vision of a world set free from wars
  Takes life, takes form, from thee,
Where all the jarring nations of this earth,
  Beneath the all-blessing sun,
Bring the new music of mankind to birth,
  And make the whole world one."


VII.

And those old comrades rise around him there,
  Old foemen, side by side,
With eyes like stars upon the brave night-air,
  And young as when they died,
To hear your bells, O beautiful Princeton towers,
  Ring for the world's release.
They see you, piercing like gray swords through flowers,
  And smile from hearts at peace.


BEETHOVEN IN CENTRAL PARK

(After a glimpse of a certain monument in New York, during the
Victory Celebration)


The thousand-windowed towers were all alight.
  Throngs of all nations filled that glittering way;
And, rich with dreams of the approaching day,
Flags of all nations trampled down the night.
No clouds, at sunset, die in airs as bright.
  No clouds, at dawn, awake in winds as gay;
  For Freedom rose in that august array,
Crowned with the stars and weaponed for the right.

Then, in a place of whispering leaves and gloom,
  I saw, too dark, too dumb for bronze or stone,
  One tragic head that bowed against the sky;
O, in a hush too deep for any tomb
  I saw Beethoven, dreadfully alone
    With his own grief, and his own majesty.


SONGS OF THE TRAWLERS AND SEA POEMS


THE PEOPLE'S FLEET


Out of her darkened fishing-ports they go,
  A fleet of little ships, whose every name--
_Daffodil_, _Sea-lark_, _Rose_ and _Surf_ and _Snow_,
  Burns in this blackness like an altar-flame;

Out of her past they sail, three thousand strong,
  The people's fleet that never knew its worth,
And every name is a broken phrase of song
  To some remembered loveliness on earth.

There's _Barbara Cowie_, _Comely Bank_ and _May_,
  Christened, at home, in worlds of dawn and dew:
There's _Ruth_ and _Kindly Light_ and _Robin Gray_
  With _Mizpah_. (May that simple prayer come true!)

Out of old England's inmost heart they sail,
  A fleet of memories that can never fail.


KILMENY


Dark, dark lay the drifters against the red West,
  As they shot their long meshes of steel overside;
And the oily green waters were rocking to rest
  When Kilmeny went out, at the turn of the tide;
And nobody knew where that lassie would roam,
  For the magic that called her was tapping unseen.
It was well-nigh a week ere Kilmeny came home,
  And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.

She'd a gun at her bow that was Newcastle's best,
  And a gun at her stern that was fresh from the Clyde,
And a secret her skipper had never confessed,
  Not even at dawn, to his newly-wed bride;
And a wireless that whispered above, like a gnome,
  The laughter of London, the boasts of Berlin....
O, it may have been mermaids that lured her from home;
  But nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.

It was dark when Kilmeny came home from her quest
  With her bridge dabbled red where her skipper had died;
But she moved like a bride with a rose at her breast,
  And _Well done Kilmeny!_ the Admiral cried.

Now, at sixty-four fathom a conger may come
  And nose at the bones of a drowned submarine;
But--late in the evening Kilmeny came home,
  And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.

There's a wandering shadow that stares at the foam,
  Though they sing all the night to old England, their queen.
Late, late in the evening, Kilmeny came home;
  And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.


CAP'N STORM-ALONG


They are buffeting out in the bitter grey weather,
  _Blow the man down, bullies, blow the man down!_
_Sea-lark_ singing to _Golden Feather_,
  And burly blue waters all swelling aroun'.
There's _Thunderstone_ butting ahead as they wallow,
  With death in the mesh of their deep-sea trawl;
There's _Night-Hawk_ swooping by wild _Sea-swallow_;
  And old Cap'n Storm-along leading 'em all.

  _Bashing the seas to a welter of white,
  Look at the fleet that he leads to the fight.
  O, they're dancing like witches to open the ball;
  And old Cap'n Storm-along's lord of 'em all._

Now, where have you seen such a bully old sailor?
  His eyes are as blue as the scarf at his throat;
And he rolls on the bridge of his broad-beamed whaler,
  In yellow sou'wester and oil-skin coat.
In trawler and drifter, in dinghy and dory,
  Wherever he signals, they leap to his call;
They batter the seas to a lather of glory,
  With old Cap'n Storm-along leading 'em all.

  _You'll find he's from Devon, the sailor I mean,
  Look at his whaler now, shipping it green.
  O, Fritz and his "U" boat must crab it and crawl
  When old Cap'n Storm-along sails to the ball._

Ay, there is the skipper that knows how to scare 'em.
  _Blow the man down, bullies, blow the man down!_
Look at the sea-wives he keeps in his harem,
  Wicked young merry-maids, buxom and brown:
There's _Rosalind_, the sea-witch, and _Gipsy_ so lissom,
  All dancing like ducks in the teeth of the squall,
With a bright eye for Huns, and a Hotchkiss to kiss 'em;
  For old Cap'n Storm-along's lord of 'em all.

  _Look at him, battering darkness to light!
  Look at the fleet that he leads to the fight!
  O, hearts that are mighty, in ships that are small,
  Your old Cap'n Storm-along's lord of us all._


THE BIG BLACK TRAWLER


The very best ship that ever I knew,
  --_Ah-way O, to me O_--
Was a big black trawler with a deep-sea crew--
  _Sing, my bullies, let the bullgine run._

There was one old devil with a broken nose
  --_Ah-way O, to me O_--
He was four score years, as I suppose--
  _But, sing, my bullies, let the bullgine run._

We was wrecked last March, in a Polar storm
  --_Ah-way O, to me O_--
And we asked the old cripple if his feet was warm--
  _Sing, my bullies, let the bullgine run._

And the old, old devil (he was ninety at the most)
  --_Ah-way O, to me O_--
Roars, "Ay, warm as a lickle piece of toast"--
  _So sing, my bullies, let the bullgine run._

"For I soaked my sea-boots and my dungarees
  --_Ah-way O, to me O_--
In the good salt water that the Lord don't freeze"--
  _Oh, sing, my bullies, let the bullgine run._


NAMESAKES


But where's the brown drifter that went out alone?
  --_Roll and go, and fare you well_--
Was her name Peggy Nutten? That name is my own.
  _Fare you well, my sailor._
They sang in the dark, "Let her go! Let her go!"
And she sailed to the West, where the broad waters flow;
And the others come back, but ... the bitter winds blow.
  _Ah, fare you well, my sailor._

The women, at evening, they wave and they cheer.
  --_Roll and go, and fare you well_--
They're waiting to welcome their lads at the pier.
  _Fare you well, my sailor._
They're all coming home in the twilight below;
But there's one little boat.... Let her go! Let her go!
She carried my heart, and a heart for the foe.
  _Ah, fare you well, my sailor._

The _Nell_ and the _Maggie_, the _Ruth_ and the _Joan_,
  --_Roll and go, and fare you well_--
They come to their namesakes, and leave me alone.
  _Fare you well, my sailor._
And names are kep' dark, for the spies mustn't know;
But they'll look in my face, an' I think it will show;
Peggy Nutten's my name. Let her go! let her go!
  _Ah, fare you well, my sailor._


WIRELESS


Now to those who search the deep,
  _Gleam of Hope_ and _Kindly Light_,
Once, before you turn to sleep,
  Breathe a message through the night.
Never doubt that they'll receive it.
Send it, once, and you'll believe it.

Wrecks that burn against the stars,
  Decks where death is wallowing green,
Snare the breath among their spars,
  Hear the flickering threads between,
Quick, through all the storms that blind them,
Quick with words that rush to find them.

Think you these aërial wires
  Whisper more than spirits may?
Think you that our strong desires
  Touch no distance when we pray?
Think you that no wings are flying
'Twixt the living and the dying?

Inland, here, upon your knees,
  You shall breathe from urgent lips,
Round the ships that guard your seas,
  Fleet on fleet of angel ships;
Yea, the guarded may so bless them
That no terrors can distress them.

You shall guide the darkling prow,
  Kneeling thus--and far inland--
You shall touch the storm-beat brow
  Gently as a spirit-hand.
Even a blindfold prayer may speed them,
And a little child may lead them.


FISHERS OF MEN


Long, long ago He said,
He who could wake the dead,
  And walk upon the sea--
  "_Come, follow Me._

"Leave your brown nets and bring
Only your hearts to sing,
  Only your souls to pray,
  Rise, come away.

"Shake out your spirit-sails,
And brave those wilder gales,
  And I will make you then
  Fishers of men."

Was this, then, what He meant?
Was this His high intent,
  After two thousand years
  Of blood and tears?

God help us, if we fight
For right, and not for might.
  God help us if we seek
  To shield the weak.

Then, though His heaven be far
From this blind welter of war,
  He'll bless us, on the sea
  From Calvary.


AN OPEN BOAT


O what is that whimpering there in the darkness?
  _"Let him lie in my arms. He is breathing, I know.
Look. I'll wrap all my hair round his neck."--"The sea's rising,
  The boat must be lightened. He's dead. He must go."_

See--quick--by that flash, where the bitter foam tosses,
  The cloud of white faces, in the black open boat,
And the wild pleading woman that clasps her dead lover
  And wraps her loose hair round his breast and his throat.

_"Come, lady, he's dead." "No, I feel his heart beating.
  He's living, I know. But he's numbed with the cold.
See, I'm wrapping my hair all around him to warm him"----
  --"No. We can't keep the dead, dear. Come, loosen your hold._

_"Come. Loosen your fingers."--"O God, let me keep him!"_
  O, hide it, black night! Let the winds have their way!
For there are no voices or ghosts from that darkness,
  To fret the bare seas at the breaking of day.


PEACE IN A PALACE


"You were weeping in the night," said the Emperor,
  "Weeping in your sleep, I am told."
"It was nothing but a dream," said the Empress;
  But her face grew gray and old.
"You thought you saw our German God defeated?"
  "Oh, no!" she said. "I saw no lightnings fall.
I dreamed of a whirlpool of green water,
  Where something had gone down. That was all.

It is supposed still to harbour in the rocks at
  Holbeck, some nine miles
from Woodhall. A specimen was captured at Woodhall
  about the year 1885, frequenting some rabbit holes in a bank, at
that time belonging to myself, and within 100 yards of the present
blacksmith’s shop on the Stixwould-road.

Another was captured a few years before in the
  adjoining parish of Martin, which I
have stuffed. At an earlier date one was
  taken by a man named Thomas Norris, at Well Syke Wood, some two
miles from Woodhall Spa.

About the year 1889 one was seen for some months in the
  Northern Dar Wood, in Woodhall. The keeper, doubtless
with murderous intent, tried to find its burrow, but
  did not succeed.

It was not killed so far as is known, but disappeared.
  Another was killed in June,
1898, at Mavis Enderby. In 1903, two badgers were killed at
  Asgarby, and one at Asterby in 1904.

In 1899 our local pack of hounds, the South Wold,
  ran a badger, instead of a fox, over
several fields, until he took to ground,
  and was afterwards killed by one of
the party, as he kept his head out of the hole. It should
  hardly be a moot point whether the extermination
  of the badger is an advantage or not,
although a good deal has been written on
  both sides of the subject.

Its skin makes the “sporran” of the kilted Highlander,
  and its hair makes our
shaving brushes. Though it may be found occasionally
  in an enlarged rabbit burrow, it is not there to prey on the rabbit;
for (as Major Fisher assures us in his interesting work, “Out-door
Life in England,” 1896) its diet is mainly vegetarian, and what
animal food it indulges in is mice, frogs, an occasional hedgehog,
with beetles, snails, and worms; and especially it is very partial
to the grubs of the wasp.

It is very cleanly in its habits; sometimes
  occupying the same “earth” with the fox,
to the great advantage of the latter,
  as it clears away the putrid matter
brought in by Reynard, and so prevents his contracting
  the mange, to which he is very liable, from
his own untidy propensities. {53a} Being thus
  not only comparatively harmless, but also
    serviceable
to the sportsman, it is much to be regretted that continued war
should be waged against these creatures. {53b} Unfortunately, old
prejudices are but slowly overcome.

By a statute enacted in the 8th year of Queen Elizabeth,
  chap. 15, and confirmed by
subsequent statutes, provision was made for the destruction
  of what were then deemed “noysome foule and vermine,” and the price
of 1s. was set on the head of every “fox and grey,” i.e., badger.

This act continued in force down to 1863.

But the old ideas concerning the badger have been long
  exploded among those who know anything
    of its habits. The
    badger, further, is the only representative of the bear family in
this country.

A scion of that race, whose bones are found in our
  fossiliferous caverns, co-eval with the
    mammoth and
    prehistoric man, he, if any of our existing animals, may boast of
“blue blood in his veins.”

The nobleman, whose ancestry came over with the conqueror,
  is a _parvenu_ in comparison with him. Surely the
    principle of _Noblesse
    oblige_ alone should ensure for him a shelter in our woods and
wastes. {54a}
The next to be mentioned of our _ferœ næturæ_, also the object of
constant persecution, and growing, consequently, rarer every year,
is the Otter.

The parish of Thimbleby adjoins Woodhall Spa on the north,
  indeed, a large slice of it is now included in the recently
    created civil parish of
    Woodhall Spa.

  At the further end of Thimbleby an otter was killed in the year
1898, at a water mill on the river Bain, the miller
    erroneously supposing
    that it would kill his ducks.

Shortly before, another specimen had been shot by a keeper on the
  same river, at Goulceby, its mate fortunately escaping.
    Soon after, a young
    specimen was seen several times disporting itself in the Horncastle
Canal.

It there escaped the vigilance of many would-be assassins, and
  gradually worked its way towards our neighbouring
    river, the
    Witham; but there it fell a victim to a gunner, who descried it
in a drain near Tattershall Bridge, in Billinghay Fen.

Another specimen was afterwards shot among the dykes of
  Walcot Dales, near the Witham, and still another in
    the neighbouring
    parish of Martin, a few years ago.

Here again this persistent slaughter is much to be regretted. The otter
  is not the enemy to the fisherman which it is too
    commonly supposed to be. In
    the “Badminton Library,” the Honourable Geoffrey Hill says: “People
are beginning to find that the otters kill and keep down the coarser
fish, especially the eels, which live on the spawn and fry of the
better sorts.”

Mr. E. Daubney, writing from the banks of the Dart, says:
  “They eat frogs, rats, birds, fish, _et id genus omne_,
    but of nothing are
    they more fond than the eel; for this they will give up the finest
and most fresh-run salmon.” {54b} In our own neighbourhood, in 1901,
two young otters were shot on a farm at Sturton; they were at a
pond which abounded in eels, and had doubtless by the eels been
attracted from the river Bain, a mile distant, where they could
only get trout.

A naturalist, who watched some otters at their home, night
  and day, for more than two months, says
    that he only saw
    them take three trout; the first fish taken was an eel, the second
a chub, or roach.

(“Country Life,” illustrated, Vol. VI., No. 134, July, 1899.) Another
  authority {55a} states that the stomach of one specimen
    examined “was full of
    larvæ and earthworms”; while a fourth writer {55b} says, “Otters
will eat celery, potatoes, young shoots from the hedges; and
especially have they a liking for the two first.”

The writer has seen a dead salmon lying on a Highland
  river bank with the shoulder eaten away by the
    otter, their peculiar
    habit being to take only this part, and never to return to the
body again.
{55c} But even their attacks on the salmon have indirectly a useful
effect, for, as one of the authorities already quoted (Mr.

E. Daubney) observes: “If a salmon pool is visited
  by otters, the salmon are hustled, and so made to
    bestir themselves
    (often when sickly, and reluctant to move), and so make the effort
to get down to the sea, to return again enormously increased in
size and condition, and in this way the otter does the sportsman a
service in sending the salmon down to recruit in the sea; just as,
in turn, the sea-lice which fix upon the salmon when recruited in
the salt water, so harass the fish, as to drive it once more up the
river again into the fresh water, when it may afford sport to the
angler.” {55d} It is not generally known, and it has even escaped
the notice of our greatest naturalists, that the otter utters a
shrill whistle when calling to its mate or young, which might be
easily mistaken for the note of the kingfisher or sand-piper.

This has been noticed by Mr. F. B. Whitlock, in the
  “Naturalist” for 1895, p. 381. The great
    stronghold of the
    otter is the broads of Norfolk, where, in the sluggish, reedy
water, he can get plenty of eels, snails, and so forth.

In our own neighbourhood, if the war and extirpation goes on, he
will soon be a memory only.

The next wild animal to be named as fairly common at Woodhall is
the Fox.

The locality, indeed, has been for many
  years a stronghold {56} of Reynard, as
was to be expected, in a district
  where the woods are so extensive, although by no means so extensive
as they were within the writer’s recollection.

On one occasion, some 14 or 15 years ago,
  we had the Burton hounds, and the
South Wold, over the same ground, in
  the same morning, within hearing, if not within sight, of each
other.

The Ostler Ground, especially from the thick
  and warm cover afforded by the heather,
may be said to be a nursery for foxes for the supply
  of the neighbourhood.

Not long ago there were six earths; and there
  are still three, which are carefully preserved; and
the bark of the dog-fox or the answering
  scream of the vixen may be heard almost any night, in different
directions, while out foraging.

So thick is the cover, in parts, that
  the hounds frequently fail to penetrate
it; and, after the pack have gone away without
  a find, I have almost trodden upon a fox, on one occasion upon a
brace of them, still lying snugly among the “ling” in security.

The fox does much less harm than is
  commonly supposed. It will not disturb other
game if it can get rabbits, and
  it will not take rabbits if it can get rats.

A very old sporting farmer has repeatedly assured
  me that although he had a rabbit warren
near his farmstead, the rabbits were
  left undisturbed, and even his chickens were safe, so long as there
were rats to be captured in his corn-stacks, or in the banks about
his farm-buildings. {57} The first fox which the writer ever saw,
was brought by a Woodhall man, named Hare, to his father.

It had been caught in a trap by the leg, and
  had attempted to bite its own foot off, in
order to effect its escape. It was
  kept until the injured limb had recovered, and was then sent to
his friend, the M.F.H.

The writer’s own recollections of fox-hunting
  go back to the days of the famous Jack Musters, the
Squire of Colwick and Annesley, who
  married Mary Chaworth, the object of Lord Byron’s passionate
admiration.

Sometime in the forties he hunted our own South Wold
  country. He was indeed “a character.” Though said
by the Prince Regent to be “the most perfect gentleman he
  had ever met,” yet, in the hunting field, his language and his
actions were most violent.

The writer has still clearly impressed on his memory
  an occasion at Woodhall, when, as a boy of 12
years old, mounted on a small pony, and with the
  hounds running hard, he endeavoured to open a gate for the impatient
M.F.H., and, on his not being able to accomplish this quickly enough,
he was assailed with such a flood of invective, and torrent of
oaths, that he was forced to withdraw from the attempt in confusion
and bewilderment.

But, if the sportsman who crossed his path was not spared by
  “Jack,” as he was familiarly called, neither was
any unfortunate hound which offended him. On one
  occasion, a young hound, at High-hall Wood, near Woodhall, was
guilty of chasing a hare.

The whole “field” was in consequence pulled up; one of the
  whips was ordered to bring the delinquent forward.
The thong of his hunting crop was twisted round the hound’s
  neck, and while he on foot held the poor brute in this way, the
other whip dismounted and belaboured it with his whip until he was
himself too exhausted to flog any more.

The whole field were kept looking on at this display of
  wholesome (?) discipline, and when it was over the
hound was left lying on the ground, almost strangled and a
  mass of contused weals, to recover its consciousness and limp after
the departing pack, as best it could.

The painful impression made upon the young mind of one devoted
  to animals, and tender of their feelings, remains
still as an unpleasant memory, from which it recoils.
  

At one of our meets, a fox was found in Bracken Wood,
  which, after giving us a good run round the neighbourhood,
eventually took refuge in a cottage near High-hall Wood.
  Entering by the open door, it mounted the ladder which formed the
staircase to the one bedroom above; there it crept under the bed.

The hounds hunted all round the premises, but the door having been
shut by the occupier, an aged, retired keeper, and there being a
strong wind which blew the scent from the door, his retreat was not
discovered.

He remained in this place of concealment until the hounds had gone
to a safe distance, and then, descending by the ladder, bolted out
of the door and made off, verifying the adage of Erasmus (older
than “Hudibras”),
That same that runnith a awaie Againe maie fighte ane other daie.

The well-known cunning of the fox is shewn
  in the following:—A favourite “find”
for many yeans has been Thornton Wood, some
  three miles from Woodhall Spa; and a frequent line for the fox to
take was (and is) from that covert to Holme Wood, near Scrivelsby.

To accomplish this the Horncastle Canal and the
  small river Bain have to be crossed. The writer,
as a boy, has swum the canal on his
  pony, at the tail of the pack; but usually riders have to make a
detour by a bridge, between the first and second locks on the canal.

During the intervals of ten minutes or a quarter
  of an hour required for this, the hounds are
left to themselves. It happened on two
  or three occasions that in this interval the scent suddenly failed,
and the fox was lost; casts were made up and down the river, but
without success.

On one occasion, a labourer, working in the
  grass field between the canal and the Bain,
saw the fox cross the canal by the lock doors,
  over which there was a narrow plank-bridge for foot-passengers.

It then made across the field for the Bain. He
  saw it pass out of sight down the banks of the
river, close by a willow tree, overhanging the
  water; but it did not emerge on the other side.

With the lack of quick wit, characteristic of the clod-hopper, it
did not occur to him to mention this at the time.

He told it, however, afterwards to his master, a
hunting man; and, on a subsequent occasion,
when the same incident occurred again, one
of the whips dismounted and went into the
water, and, poking about the roots of
the willows, dislodged Reynard, concealed
under the hollow bank, and immersed under water,
except his nose and mouth, by which
he was hanging suspended from a fang of the
tree roots. Surely Reynard’s clever ruse deserved a
better fate than the death which speedily followed.

The following incident occurred under my own observation.

I was out shooting in Woodhall. In a
certain field I had put up a hare, which went
away, without a shot. Passing, in due course,
to the next field, I observed an object
sitting, so far as I could make out, in a crouching
position, in the middle of the field, and it
looked in the distance like a man. I proceeded
towards it, and soon perceived that it was a
fox, sitting up on his hindquarters. At
this moment a hare, presumably that which I
had put up just before, entered the field and cantered
leisurely in the direction of the fox.

As sportsmen are aware, the hare, though
able to see behind it, or on either side,
does not, from the peculiar position
of the eyes, see so well straight in front. In
this case, the hare never perceived the fox
until it was within a few feet of it; whereupon it
stopped short, and the two sat up facing each
other, evidently mutually fascinated, as the
bird is said to be by the snake.
They thus remained motionless, or powerless to move, for some
minutes, until my nearer approach attracted their attention and
broke the spell, whereupon they both bounded off in different
directions.

This, I am told by an authority, was a case of
neurasthenia, or nerve-paralysis. A not quite
similar occurrence was recorded some
little time ago. A farmer saw a pheasant
go to roost in a tree, standing alone in
the field. Presently he saw a fox approach,
go to the tree, and look up at the pheasant.

After pausing for a moment, regarding the bird,
he proceeded to run rapidly round the
tree in a narrow circle. This he did for
some time, continuing his circuit
                            without intermission;
when, to the farmer’s astonishment, the pheasant
fell from its roost, and before it
reached the ground was seized by the fox, who
went off with his prey to a neighbouring
plantation. This would seem to have been
a case of hypnotism, rather than neurasthenia.

The bird was mesmerised, or made giddy,
by the fox’s circular motion, and
literally fell into the operator’s arms.—(“Spectator,”
January, 1898).

The writer, when travelling in Germany, once met a German gentleman,
who had visited country houses in England, and had conceived a great
admiration for the English sport of fox-hunting.

“Ah,” he said, “we have nothing like it in Germany. It is a grand
institution.

It makes you good horsemen, good soldiers,
  good judges of country and distance.”
To those who would object to fox-hunting
  on the score of its cruelty, I would quote words used at a church
congress, by Colonel Hornby, master of the Devon and Somerset
Staghounds.

Speaking on “The Ethics of Amusements,”
  he said:
“The exercise of hunting is
  productive of the most beneficial effects on both mind and body.

There could be no hunting without suffering
  to the animal hunted, but this was
greatly exaggerated. These animals
  were born to be hunted by other wild animals; we had destroyed the
latter, and our hunting was more merciful.

The pain inflicted was no equivalent
  to the pleasure afforded to
hounds and horses, leaving men out
  of the question.

The true lover of sport was a lover
  of mercy as well. Every sportsman, in
the true sense of the word, did
  all in his power to lessen the suffering.”

—Quoted, “Guardian,” Oct. 17, 1894, p.
  1,620.

  The days are gone by when gentlemen “of the cloth” were common in
the hunting field.

Yet I have known some of the
  hardest working clergymen, and the
most sincere, earnest Christians, who
  saw no excessive cruelty in the chase.

We have no “Jack Russels” among us
  now; the last of the type who lived
in our neighbourhood found a dead fox
  in his pulpit, when he ascended it to preach his sermon one Sunday
morning; and though he did not deliver a funeral oration over it,
it was said that he buried it with as much loving reverence and
genuine grief, as if it had been a Christian parishioner.

A meet of the foxhounds at that
  favourite tryst, the “Tower on the Moor,”
near to Woodhall Spa, presents a
  pretty and lively scene.

Besides the red-coated sportsman,
  there are riders, with horses of every
degree, from the barebacked,
  or rudely saddled “screw,” to the 100 guinea or 200 guinea hunter;
and from the “weedy” hack to the long, elastic-legged animal of
racing blood.

There are numerous vehicles, two-wheeled
  and four-wheeled, with their varied occupants,
from the butcher’s light cart to
  the phaeton or the drag.

There are numbers on foot, of
  both sexes; some of the men, staid of
mein and beyond middle life, have
  already walked their miles; townsmen, for once, breaking away from
their trade, or their business, and bent once more on breathing the
fresh air on the heather, and listening again to the “echoing horn,”
as it vibrates through the woods.

There are ladies, on horseback, eager
  for the burst across country “in the first
flight”; there are ladies on cycles,
  not yet arrived at the degree of perfection to enable the fair
riders to take a “bee-line,” but yet, from the speed attainable,
able to make rapid detours, and if they study the wind, and are
familiar with the “lay” of the country, likely to see almost as
much of the sport as the best-mounted.

All are bent on the healthy
  enjoyment of this thoroughly English
pastime. Their thoughts might find
  echo in the old hunting song,

Tally-ho! Tally-ho!
  Let the foreigner know We are Englishmen:
so, Tally-ho! Tally-ho!
  

And who shall say that the pleasure
  is confined to them? Someone has said:
“The horses enjoy it, the hounds
  enjoy it, and no one can say from experience that the fox does not
enjoy it as well.”

Then comes the M.F.H., with his
  beauties, all in “the pink” of
condition. A moment’s delay for
  pleasant greetings between all and sundry, and the hounds are
quickly thrown in for business; their tails, and little more, wave
above the long ling and the tall bracken.

The whips gallop to their points of
  observation. Presently a whimper or
two is heard; then the deeper tone of
  an old hound takes it up; the rest rally about him, and soon the
whole pack join in full chorus.

A halloo is heard from a ride, as the
  fox crosses it; a distant hat is
held up to show the line he is
  taking in the cover, and then a more distant shout of “gone away,”
and the whole field are off, helter skelter, as though riding for
their lives, _sauve qui peut_.

Such are “the pleasures of the chase,” for which we are indebted
to the Little Red Rover: “The sport of kings, the image of war,
without its guilt.”

(Somerville, “The Chase,”
  Book I.)
The neighbourhood of Woodhall combines lands
  of a wild unreclaimed nature, such as the Ostler Ground and other
moorlands, in the parishes of Thornton, Martin, Roughton, Kirkby
and Tattershall, and closely contiguous, and even mixed up with
these, lands which are in an advanced state of cultivation.

I have already mentioned
  a tract of waste, boggy ground, lying between
the Tower on the Moor and Bracken Wood, formerly the
  haunt of wild fowl, and still called “The Bogs Neuk.”

The origin of this ground
  was probably the following:—The old antiquary,
Leland, writing of “The Tower,” {61} says, “one
  of the Cromwelles builded a pretty turret, caullid the Tower on
the Moore, and thereby he made a faire greate pond or lake, bricked
about.

The lake is commonly
  called the Synkker.” This “lake,” and all
trace of it, have entirely disappeared; but
  it is probable that the decay of its “bricked” walls, or of whatever
the environment may really have been, led to the escape of the
water, and the creation of the tract of swamp, which remained until
recent years.

Similarly the Ostler Ground was,
  within the writer’s recollection, a much wilder
tract, and its woods more extensive than at
  present.

Some 300 acres of wood were destroyed by fire, through accident,
about the year 1847.

This happened at night, and, seen
  from a distance, it
looked like a vast American
  prairie conflagration, the heavens being tinged with a lurid light
far and wide.

At that time the plantations
  opposite the Tower were
of Scotch fir, so dense
  that the rays of the sun could scarcely penetrate.

The roads, as I have previously
  stated, were little more
than cart tracts, often shifting;
  and the whole tract was almost as little frequented, or disturbed,
as if it had been in the heart of the Black Forest of Germany.

  You'd say, 'I'll listen, and p'raps I'll learn
One word of His joy as He passed this way,
  One syllable more,'
That's what you'd say."

"If I could tell you all the rest,"
  Said the Old Fool under the skies,
"You'd hug your griefs against your breast
  And whisper with love-lit eyes,
'I am one with the sorrow that made the may,
  And the pulse of His heart,'
That's what you'd say."


A NEW MADRIGAL TO AN OLD MELODY

(It is supposed that Shadow-of-a-Leaf uses the word "clear" in a
more ancient sense of "beautiful.")


As along a dark pine-bough, in slender white mystery
  The moon lay to listen, above the thick fern,
In a deep dreaming wood that is older than history
  I heard a lad sing, and I stilled me to learn;
So rarely he lilted his long-forgot litany,--
  _Fall, April; fall, April, in dew on our dearth!
Bring balm, and bring poppy, bring deep sleepy dittany
  For Marian, our clear May, so long laid in earth._

Then I drew back the branches. I saw him that chanted it.
  I saw his fool's bauble. I knew his old grief.
I knew that old greenwood and the shadow that haunted it,--
  My fool, my lost jester, my _Shadow-of-a-Leaf_!
And "why," I said, "why, all this while, have you left me so
  Luckless in melody, lonely in mirth?"
"Oh, why," he sang, "why has this world then bereft me so
  Soon of my Marian, so long laid in earth?

"In the years that are gone," he said, "love was more fortunate.
  Grief was our minstrel of things that endure.
Now, ashes and dust and this world grow importunate.
  Time has no sorrow that time cannot cure.
Once, we could lose, and the loss was worth cherishing.
  Now, we may win, but, O, where is the worth?
Memory and true love," he whispered, "are perishing,
  With Marian, our clear May, so long laid in earth."

"Ah, no!" I said, "no! Since we grieve for our grief again,
  Touch the old strings! Let us try the old stave!
And memory may wake, like my _Shadow-of-a-Leaf_ again,
  Singing of hope, in the dark, by a grave."
So we sang it together--that long-forgot litany:--
  _Fall, April; fall, April; bring new grief to birth.
Bring wild herb of grace, and bring deep healing dittany,
  For Marian, our clear May, so long laid in earth._


THE LOST BATTLE


It is not over yet-the fight
  Where those immortal dreamers failed.
They stormed the citadels of night
  And the night praised them--and prevailed.
So long ago the cause was lost
  We scarce distinguish friend from foe;
But--if the dead can help it most--
  The armies of the dead will grow.

The world has all our banners now,
  And filched our watchwords for its own.
The world has crowned the "rebel's" brow
  And millions crowd his lordly throne.
The masks have altered. Names are names;
  They praise the "truth" that is not true.
The "rebel" that the world acclaims
  Is not the rebel Shelley knew.

We may not build that Commonweal.
  We may not reach the goal we set.
But there's a flag they dare not steal.
  Forward! It is not over yet.
We shall be dust and under dust
  Before we end that ancient wrong;
But here's a sword that cannot rust,
  And where's the death can touch a song?

So, when our bodies rot in earth
  The singing souls that once were ours,
Weaponed with light and helmed with mirth,
  Shall front the kingdoms and the powers.
The ancient lie is on its throne,
  And half the living still forget;
But, since the dead are all our own,
  Courage, it is not over yet.


RIDDLES OF MERLIN


As I was walking
  Alone by the sea,
"_What is that whisper?_"
  Said Merlin to me.
"Only," I answered,
  "The sigh of the wave"--
"_Oh, no_," replied Merlin,
  "_'Tis the grass on your grave_."

As I lay dreaming
  In churchyard ground
"_Listen_," said Merlin,
  "_What is that sound_?"
"The green grass is growing,"
  I answered; but he
Chuckled, "_Oh, no!
  'Tis the sound of the sea_."

As I went homeward
  At dusk by the shore,
"_What is that crimson?_"
  Said Merlin once more.
"Only the sun," I said.
"Sinking to rest"--
"_Sunset for East_," he said,
  "_Sunrise for West_."


THE SYMPHONY


Wonder in happy eyes
  Fades, fades away:
And the angel-coloured skies
  Whisper farewell.

Loveliness over the strings of the heart may stray
  In fugitive melodies;
But Oh, the hand of the Master must not stay,
  Even for a breath;

For to prolong one joy, or even to dwell
  On one rich chord of pain,
Beyond the pulse of the song, would untune heaven
  And drown the stars in death.

So youth with its love-note dies;
  And beauty fades in the air,
To make the master-symphony immortal,
  And find new life and deeper wonder there.


PEACE


Give me the pulse of the tide again
  And the slow lapse of the leaves,
The rustling gold of a field of grain
  And a bird in the nested eaves;

And a fishing-smack in the old harbour
  Where all was happy and young;
And an echo or two of the songs I knew
  When songs could still be sung.

For I would empty my heart of all
  This world's implacable roar,
And I would turn to my home, and fall
  Asleep in my home once more;

And I would forget what the cities say,
  And the folly of all the wise,
And turn to my own true folk this day,
  And the love in their constant eyes.

There is peace, peace, where the sea-birds wheel,
  And peace in the breaking wave;
And I have a broken heart to heal,
  And a broken soul to save.


THE OPEN DOOR


O Mystery of life,
That, after all our strife,
  Defeats, mistakes,
Just as, at last, we see
The road to victory,
  The tired heart breaks.

Just as the long years give
Knowledge of how to live,
  Life's end draws near;
As if, that gift being ours,
God needed our new powers
  In worlds elsewhere.

There, if the soul whose wings
Were won in suffering, springs
  To life anew,
Justice would have some room
For hope beyond the tomb,
  And mercy, too.

And since, without this dream
No light, no faintest gleam
  Answers our "why";
But earth and all its race
Must pass and leave no trace
  On that blind sky;

Shall reason close that door
On all we struggled for,
  Seal the soul's doom;
Make of this universe
One wild answering curse,
  One lampless tomb?

Mine be the dream, the creed
That leaves for God, indeed,
  For God, and man,
One open door whereby
To prove His world no lie
  And crown His plan.


IMMORTAL SAILS


Now, in a breath, we'll burst those gates of gold,
  And ransack heaven before our moment fails.
Now, in a breath, before we, too, grow old,
  We'll mount and sing and spread immortal sails.

It is not time that makes eternity.
  Love and an hour may quite out-run the years,
And give us more to hear and more to see
  Than life can wash away with all its tears.

Dear, when we part, at last, that sunset sky
  Shall not be touched with deeper hues than this;
But we shall ride the lightning ere we die
  And seize our brief infinitude of bliss,

With time to spare for all that heaven can tell,
While eyes meet eyes, and look their last farewell.


THE MATIN-SONG OF FRIAR TUCK


I.

If souls could sing to heaven's high King
  As blackbirds pipe on earth,
How those delicious courts would ring
  With gusts of lovely mirth!
What white-robed throng could lift a song
  So mellow with righteous glee
As this brown bird that all day long
  Delights my hawthorn tree.
    Hark! That's the thrush
      With speckled breast
    From yon white bush
      Chaunting his best,
  _Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!_


II.

If earthly dreams be touched with gleams
  Of Paradisal air,
Some wings, perchance, of earth may glance
  Around our slumbers there;
Some breaths of may might drift our way
  With scents of leaf and loam,
Some whistling bird at dawn be heard
  From those old woods of home.
    Hark! That's the thrush
      With speckled breast
    From yon white bush
      Chaunting his best,
  _Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!_


III.

No King or priest shall mar my feast
  Where'er my soul may range.
I have no fear of heaven's good cheer
  Unless our Master change.
But when death's night is dying away,
  If I might choose my bliss,
My love should say, at break of day,
  With her first waking kiss:-
    Hark! That's the thrush
      With speckled breast,
    From yon white bush
      Chaunting his best,
  _Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!_


FIVE CRITICISMS


I.

(_On many recent novels by the conventional unconventionalists_.)

Old Pantaloon, lean-witted, dour and rich,
  After grim years of soul-destroying greed,
Weds Columbine, that April-blooded witch
  "Too young" to know that gold was not her need.

Then enters Pierrot, young, rebellious, warm,
  With well-lined purse, to teach the fine-souled wife
That the old fool's gold should aid a world-reform
  (Confused with sex). This wrecks the old fool's life.

O, there's no doubt that Pierrot was clever,
  Quick to break hearts and quench the dying flame;
But why, for his own pride, does Pierrot never
  Choose his own mate, work for his own high aim,

Stand on his feet, and pay for his own tune?
Why scold, cheat, rob and kill poor Pantaloon?


II.

(_On a certain goddess, acclaimed as "new" but known in Babylon._)

I saw the assembled artists of our day
  Waiting for light, for music and for song.
A woman stood before them, fresh as May
  And beautiful; but, in that modish throng,

None heeded her. They said, "In our first youth
  Surely, long since, your hair was touched with grey."
"I do not change," she answered. "I am Truth."
  "Old and banal," they sneered, and turned away.

Then came a formless thing, with breasts dyed scarlet.
  The roses in her hair were green and blue.
    "I am new," she said. "I change, and
      Death knows why."

Then with the eyes and gesture of a harlot
  She led them all forth, whinneying, "New, how new!
    Tell us your name!" She answered, "The
      New Lie."


III.

(_On Certain of the Bolsheviki "Idealists."_)

With half the force and thought you waste in rage
  Over your neighbor's house, or heart of stone,
You might have built your own new heritage,
  O fools, have you no hands, then, of your own?

Where is your pride? Is this your answer still,
  This the red flag that burns above our strife,
This the new cry that rings from Pisgah hill,
  "_Our neighbor's money, or our neighbor's life_"?

Be prouder. Let us build that nobler state
  With our own hands, with our own muscle and brain!
Your very victories die in hymns of hate;
  And your own envies are your heaviest chain.

Is there no rebel proud enough to say
  "We'll stand on our own feet, and win the day"?


IV.

(_On Certain Realists._)

You with the quick sardonic eye
For all the mockeries of life,
Beware, in this dark masque of things that seem,
Lest even that tragic irony,
Which you discern in this our mortal strife,
Trick you and trap you, also, with a dream.

Last night I saw a dead man borne along
The city streets, passing a boisterous throng
That never ceased to laugh and shout and dance:
And yet, and yet,
For all the poison bitter minds might brew
From themes like this, I knew
That the stern Truth would not permit her glance
Thus to be foiled by flying straws of chance,
For her keen eyes on deeper skies are set,
And laws that tragic ironists forget.

She saw the dead man's life, from birth to death,--
All that he knew of love and sin and pain,
Success and failure (not as this world sees),
His doubts, his passions, inner loss and gain,
And borne on darker tides of constant law
Beyond the margin of this life she saw
All that had left his body with the breath.
These things, to her, were still realities.

If any mourned for him unseen,
She saw them, too.
If none, she'd not pretend
His clay were colder, or his God less true,
Or that his grave, at length, would be less green.
She'd not deny
The boundless depths of her eternal sky
Brooding above a boundless universe,
Because he seemed to man's unseeing eye
Going a little further to fare worse;
Nor would she assume he lacked that unseen friend
Whom even the tragic ironists declare
Were better than the seen, in his last end.

Oh, then, beware, beware,
Lest in the strong name of "reality"
You mock yourselves anew with shapes of air,
Lest it be you, agnostics, who re-write
The fettering creeds of night,
Affirm you know your own Unknowable,
And lock the wingéd soul in a new hell;
Lest it be you, lip-worshippers of Truth,
Who break the heart of youth;
Lest it be you, the realists, who fight
With shadows, and forget your own pure light;
Lest it be you who, with a little shroud
Snatched from the sightless faces of the dead,
Hoodwink the world, and keep the mourner bowed
In dust, real dust, with stones, real stones, for bread;
Lest, as you look one eighth of an inch beneath
The yellow skin of death,
You dream yourselves discoverers of the skull
That old _memento mori_ of our faith;
Lest it be you who hunt a flying wraith
Through this dissolving stuff of hill and cloud;
Lest it be you, who, at the last, annul
Your covenant with your kind;
Lest it be you who darken heart and mind,
Sell the strong soul in bondage to a dream,
And fetter us once more to things that seem.


V

(_An Answer_)

[After reading an article in a leading London journal by an
"intellectual" who attacked one of the noblest poets and greatest
artists of a former century (or any century) on the ground that his
high ethical standards were incompatible with the new lawlessness.
This vicious lawlessness the writer described definitely, and he paid
his tribute to dishonour as openly and brutally as any of the Bolsheviki
could have done. I had always known that this was the real
ground of the latter-day onslaught on some of the noblest literature
of the past; but I had never seen it openly confessed before. The
time has now surely come when, if our civilization is to make any
fight at all against the new "red ruin and breaking up of laws," we
must cease to belaud our slack-minded, latter-day "literature of
rebellion" for its cleverness in making scraps of paper out of the
plain laws of right and wrong. It has been doing this for more than
twenty-five years, and the same has become fashionable among
those who are too busy to read carefully or understand fully what
pitfalls are being prepared for their own feet and the feet of their
children.]


I

If this were true, England indeed were dead.
  If the wild fashion of that poisonous hour
  Wherein the new Salome, clothed with power,
Wriggled and hissed, with hands and feet so red,
Should even now demand that glorious head,
  Whose every word was like an English flower,
  Whose every song an English April shower,
Whose every thought immortal wine and bread;
If this were true, if England should prefer
  Darkness, corruption, and the adulterous crew,
Shakespeare and Browning would cry shame on her,
  And Milton would deny the land he knew;
And those who died in Flanders yesterday
Would thank their God they sleep in cleaner clay.


II

It is not true. Only these "rebel" wings,
  These glittering clouds of "intellectual" flies
  Out of the stagnant pools of midnight rise
From the old dead creeds, with carrion-poisoned stings
  They strike at noble and ignoble things,
  Immortal Love with the old world's out-worn lies,
  But even now, a wind from clearer skies
Dissolves in smoke their coteries and wings.

See, their divorced idealist re-divorces
  The wife he stole from his own stealing friend!
And _these_ would pluck the high stars from their courses,
  And mock the fools that praise them, till the end!
Well, let the whole world praise them. Truth can wait
Till our new England shall unlock the gate.


III

Yes. Let the fools go paint themselves with woad,
  For we've a jest between us, Truth and I.
  We know that those who live by fashion die
Also by fashion, and that mode kills mode.
We know the great new age is on the road,
  And death is at the heart of every lie.
  But we've a jest between us, Truth and I.
And we have locked the doors to our abode.

Yet if some great new "rebel" in his pride
  Should pass that way and hear us laughing low
Like lovers, in the darkness, side by side,
  He might catch this:--"The dullards do not know
That names are names. New 'rebel' is old 'thrall.'"
And we're the lonely dreamers after all.


THE COMPANIONS


How few are they that voyage through the night
  On that eternal quest,
For that strange light beyond our light,
  That rest beyond our rest.

And they who, seeking beauty, once descry
  Her face, to most unknown;
Thenceforth like changelings from the sky
  Must walk their road alone.

So once I dreamed. So idle was my mood;
  But now, before these eyes,
From those foul trenches, black with blood,
  What radiant legions rise!

And loveliness over the wounded earth awakes
  Like wild-flowers in the Spring.
Out of the mortal chrysalis breaks
  Immortal wing on wing.

They rise like flowers, they wander on wings of light,
  Through realms beyond our ken.
The loneliest soul is companied tonight
  By hosts of unknown men.


THE LITTLE ROADS


The great roads are all grown over
  That seemed so firm and white.
The deep black forests have covered them.
  How should I walk aright?
How should I thread these tangled mazes,
  Or grope to that far off light?
I stumble round the thickets, and they turn me
  Back to the thickets and the night.

Yet, sometimes, at a word, an elfin pass-word,
  (O, thin, deep, sweet with beaded rain!)
There shines, through a mist of ragged-robins,
  The old lost April-coloured lane,
That leads me from myself; for, at a whisper,
  Where the strong limbs thrust in vain,
At a breath, if my heart help another heart,
  The path shines out for me again.

A thin thread, a rambling lane for lovers
  To the light of the world's one May,
Where the white dropping flakes may wet our faces
  As we lift them to the bloom-bowed spray:
O Master, shall we ask Thee, then, for high-roads,
  Or down upon our knees and pray
That Thou wilt ever lose us in Thy little lanes,
  And lead us by a wandering way.


SUNLIGHT AND SEA


Give me the sunlight and the sea
And who shall take my heaven from me?

Light of the Sun, Life of the Sun,
O happy, bold companion,
Whose golden laughters round me run,
Making wine of the blue air
With wild-rose kisses everywhere,
Browning the limb, flushing the cheek,
Apple-fragrant, leopard-sleek,
Dancing from thy red-curtained East
Like a Nautch-girl to my feast,
Proud because her lord, the Spring,
Praised the way those anklets ring;
Or wandering like a white Greek maid
Leaf-dappled through the dancing shade,
Where many a green-veined leaf imprints
Breast and limb with emerald tints,
That softly net her silken shape
But let the splendour still escape,
While rosy ghosts of roses flow
Over the supple rose and snow.

But sweetest, fairest is thy face,
When we meet, when we embrace,
Where the white sand sleeps at noon
Round that lonely blue lagoon,
Fringed with one white reef of coral
Where the sea-birds faintly quarrel
And the breakers on the reef
Fade into a dream of grief,
And the palm-trees overhead
Whisper that all grief is dead.

Sister Sunlight, lead me then
Into thy healing seas again....
For when we swim out, side by side,
Like a lover with his bride,
When thy lips are salt with brine,
And thy wild eyes flash in mine,
The music of a mightier sea
Beats with my blood in harmony.
I breast the primal flood of being,
Too clear for speech, too near for seeing;
And to his heart, new reconciled,
The Eternal takes his earth-bound child.

Who the essential secret spells
In those gigantic syllables,--
Flowing, ebbing, ebbing, flowing,--
Gathers wisdom past all knowing.
Song of the Sea, I hear, I hear,
That deeper music of the sphere,
Catch the rhythm of sun and star,
And know what light and darkness are;
Ay, faint beginnings of a rhyme
That swells beyond the tides of time;
Beat with thy rhythm in blood and breath,
And make one song of life and death.
I hear, I hear, and rest content,
Merged in the primal element,
The old element whence life arose,
The fount of youth, to which it goes.

Give me the sunlight and the sea
And who shall take my heaven from me?


THE ROAD THROUGH CHAOS


I.

There is one road, one only, to the Light:
  A narrow way, but Freedom walks therein;
A straight, firm road through Chaos and old Night,
  And all these wandering Jack-o-Lents of Sin.

It is the road of Law, where Pilate stays
  To hear, at last, the answer to his cry;
And mighty sages, groping through their maze
  Of eager questions, hear a child reply.

_Truth? What is Truth?_ Come, look upon my tables.
  Begin at your beginnings once again.
_Twice one is two!_ Though all the rest be fables,
  Here's one poor glimpse of Truth to keep you sane.

For Truth, at first, is clean accord with fact,
Whether in line or thought, or word, or act.


II.

Then, by those first, those clean, precise, accords,
  Build to the Lord your temples and your song;
The curves of beauty, music's wedded chords
  Resolving into heaven all hate and wrong.

Let harmonies of colour marry and follow
  And breaking waves in a rhythmic dance ensue;
And all your thought fly free as the wings of the swallow,
  Whose arrowy curves obey their measure, too.

Then shall the marching stars and tides befriend you,
  And your own heart, and the world's heart, pulse in rhyme;
Then shall the mob of the passions that would rend you
  Crown you their Captain and march on in time.

So shall you repossess your struggling soul,
Conquer your world, and find the eternal goal.


THE NIGHT OF THE LION

"_And that a reply be received before midnight._"
_British Ultimatum_.


Their Day was at twelve of the night,
  When the graves give up their dead.
The hunters could be sometimes seen,
  but never caught. Their best
time was about sunrise; but, before one
  could dress and get to the front,
they would retire.
  

One morning, about four o'clock,
  I heard the battle renewed. I sprang up,
but not in arms, and went to a window.
  Polly (like another 'blessed
damozel') flew to another
  window,--
"The blessed damozel leaned out From
  the gold bar of heaven,"

and reconnoitered from behind the
  blinds.

  "The wonder was not yet quite gone
From that still look of hers,"
  
when an armed man and a legged
  dog appeared in the opening.

I was vigilantly watching
  him.

  . . . . "And now She spoke through
the still weather."
  "Are you afraid to speak
to him?" asked Polly.

  Not exactly,

. . . ."she spoke as when The stars
  sang in their spheres.

  "Stung by this inquiry, I leaned out of the
window till
  "The bar I leaned on (was) warm,"
and cried,--
  "Halloo, there! What are you doing?"

"Look out he don't shoot you," called out
  Polly from the other window,
suddenly going on another tack.
  
I explained that a sportsman would not be
  likely to shoot a gentleman
in his own house, with bird-shot,
so long as quails were to be had.
  "You have no business here: what are you after?" I repeated.
"Looking for a lost hen," said the man as he strode away.
The reply was so satisfactory and conclusive that I shut the blinds
and went to bed.
But one evening I overhauled one of the poachers. Hearing his dog
in the thicket, I rushed through the brush, and came in sight of
the hunter as he was retreating down the road. He came to a halt;
and we had some conversation in a high key. Of course I threatened
to prosecute him._Till the day when a little child,
  Shall lay but a hand on his mane,
And his eyes grow golden and mild
  And he stands in the heavens again;
Till the day of the seventh seal,
  Which the Lion alone shall rend,
When the stars from their courses reel,
  His Freedom shall not end._


THE WAR WIDOW


I.

Black-veiled, black-gowned, she rides in bus and train,
  With eyes that fill too listlessly for tears.
Her waxen hands clasp and unclasp again.
  _Good News_, they cry. She neither sees nor hears.

Good News, perhaps, may crown some far-off king.
  Good News may peal the glory of the state--
Good News may cause the courts of heaven to ring.
  She sees a hand waved at a garden gate.

For her dull ears are tuned to other themes;
  And her dim eyes can never see aright.
She glides--a ghost--through all her April dreams,
  To meet his eyes at dawn, his lips at night.

Wraiths of a truth that others never knew;
And yet--for her--the only truth that's true.


II.

_Good News! Good News!_ There is no way but this.
  Out of the night a star begins to rise.
I know not where my soul's deep Master is;
  Nor can I hear those angels in the skies;

Nor follow him, as childhood used of old,
  By radiant seas, in those time-hallowed tales.
Only, at times, implacable and cold,
  From this blind gloom, stand out the iron nails.

Yet, at this world's heart stands the Eternal Cross,
  The ultimate frame of moon and star and sun,
Where Love with out-stretched arms, in utter loss,
  Points East and West and makes the whole world one.

_Good News! Good News!_ There is no hope, no way,
No truth, no life, but leads through Christmas Day.


THE BELL


The Temple Bell was out of tune,
That once out-melodied sun and moon.

Instead of calling folk to prayer
It spread an evil in the air.

Instead of a song, from north to south,
It put a lie in the wind's mouth.

The very palms beneath it died,
So harsh it jarred, so loud it lied.

Then the gods told the blue-robed bonze:
"_Your Bell is only wrought of bronze._

_Lower it down, cast it again,
Or you shall shake the heavens in vain._"

Then, as the mighty cauldron hissed,
Men brought the wealth that no man missed.

Yea, they brought silver, they brought gold,
And melted them into the seething mould.

The miser brought his greening hoard,
And the king cast in his sword.

Yet, when the Bell in the Temple swung,
It jarred the stars with its harsh tongue.

"_Is this your best?_" the oracle said,
"_Then were you better drunk or dead._"

Once again they melted it down,
And the king cast in his crown.

Then they poured wine, and bullock's blood,
Into the hot, grey, seething flood.

They gave it mellowing fruits to eat,
And honey-combs to make it sweet.

Yet, when they hauled it to the sky,
The Bell was one star-shattering lie.

So, for the third time and the last,
They lowered it down to be re-cast.

The white-hot metal seethed anew,
And the crowd shrank as the heat grew;

But a white-robed woman, queenly and tall,
Pressed to the brink before them all,

One breast, like a golden fruit lay bare;
She held her small son feeding there.

She plucked him off, she lifted him high,
Like rose-red fruit on the blue sky.

She pressed her lips to the budded feet,
And murmured softly, "_Oh, sweet, my sweet._"

She whispered, "_Gods, that my land may live,
I give the best that I have to give!_"

Then, then, before the throng awoke,
Before one cry from their white lips broke,

She tossed him into the fiery flood,
Her child, her baby, her flesh and blood.

And the crisp hissing waves closed round
And melted him through without a sound.

"_Too quick for pain_," they heard her say,
And she sobbed, once, and she turned away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Temple Bell, in peace and war,
Keeps the measure of sun and star.

But sometimes, in the night it cries
Faintly, and a voice replies:

_Mother, Oh, mother, the Bell rings true!--
  You were all that I had!--Oh, mother, my mother!--
With the land and the Bell it is well. Is it well,
  Is it well with the heart that had you and none other?_


SLAVE AND EMPEROR

"Our cavalry have rescued Nazareth from the enemy whose supermen
described Christianity as a creed for slaves."


The Emperor mocked at Nazareth
  In his almighty hour.
The Slave that bowed himself to death
And walked with slaves in Nazareth,
What were his words but wasted breath
  Before that "will to power"?

Yet, in the darkest hour of all,
  When black defeat began,
The Emperor heard the mountains quake,
He felt the graves beneath him shake,
He watched his legions rally and break,
  And he whimpered as they ran.

"I hear a shout that moves the earth,
  A cry that wakes the dead!
Will no one tell me whence they come,
For all my messengers are dumb?
What power is this that comes to birth
  And breaks my power?" he said.

Then, all around his foundering guns,
  Though dawn was now not far,
The darkness filled with a living fear
That whispered at the Emperor's ear,
"_The armies of the dead draw near
  Beneath an eastern star._"

_The trumpet blows in Nazareth.
  The Slave is risen again.
Across the bitter wastes of death
The horsemen ride from Nazareth,
And the Power we mocked as wasted breath
  Returns, in power, to reign;
Rides on, in white, through Nazareth,
  To save His world again._


ON A MOUNTAIN TOP


On this high altar, fringed with ferns
  That darken against the sky,
The dawn in lonely beauty burns
  And all our evils die.

The struggling sea that roared below
  Is quieter than the dew,
Quieter than the clouds that flow
  Across the stainless blue.

On this bare crest, the angels kneel
  And breathe the sweets that rise
From flowers too little to reveal
  Their beauty to our eyes.

I have seen Edens on the earth
  With queenly blooms arrayed;
But here the fairest come to birth,
  The smallest flowers He made.

O, high above the sounding pine,
  And richer, sweeter far,
The wild thyme wakes. The celandine
  Looks at the morning star.

They may not see the heavens unfold.
  They breathe no out-worn prayer;
But, on a mountain, as of old,
  His glory fills the air.


EARLY POEMS

(_Not Published Hitherto in America_)


THE PHANTOM FLEET
(1904)


The sunset lingered in the pale green West:
  In rosy wastes the low soft evening star
Woke; while the last white sea-mew sought for rest;
  And tawny sails came stealing o'er the bar.

But, in the hillside cottage, through the panes
  The light streamed like a thin far trumpet-call,
And quickened, as with quivering battle-stains,
  The printed ships that decked the parlour wall.

From oaken frames old admirals looked down:
  They saw the lonely slumberer at their feet:
They saw the paper, headed _Talk from Town;
  Our rusting trident, and our phantom fleet_:

And from a neighbouring tavern surged a song
  Of England laughing in the face of war,
With eyes unconquerably proud and strong,
  And lips triumphant from her Trafalgar.

But he, the slumberer in that glimmering room,
  Saw distant waters glide and heave and gleam;
Around him in the softly coloured gloom
  The pictures clustered slowly to a dream.

He saw how England, resting on her past,
  Among the faded garlands of her dead,
Woke; for a whisper reached her heart at last,
  And once again she raised her steel-clad head.

Her eyes were filled with sudden strange alarms;
  She heard the westering waters change and chime;
She heard the distant tumult of her arms
  Defeated, not by courage, but by Time.

Knowledge had made a deadlier pact with death,
  Nor strength nor steel availed against that bond:
Slowly approached--and Britain held her breath--
  The battle booming from the deeps beyond.

(_C.P.
  Krauth_, 1, 316.)

  MUHLENBERG'S CONFESSIONALISM.
  
45. Unqualified Subscription to Entire Book of Concord.--Like
  the "Fathers in Halle," Muhlenberg, self-evidently,
desired to be a Lutheran and to build a Lutheran
Church in America.

He himself says, in a manner somewhat touchy: "I
  defy Satan and every lying spirit to lay at my
door anything which contradicts the
  teaching of our apostles or the Symbolical
  Books. I have often said and written that I have
found neither error, nor mistake, nor any defect
  in our Evangelical doctrine, based, as it is, on the
apostles and prophets, and exhibited in our
Symbolical Books." _Dr.

Spaeth:_ "The standards of the Lutheran Church
  of the sixteenth century were accepted
and endorsed by Muhlenberg without
  reservation, and in his whole ministerial work
  he endeavored to come up to this standard, as he
had solemnly pledged himself in his ordination
  vow before the theological faculty of the university
at Leipzig, on August 24, 1739, which committed
to him the office of 'teaching the Gospel and administering the
Sacraments according to the rule given in the writings of the
prophets and apostles, the sum of which is contained in those three
symbols, the Apostolic, Nicene, and Athanasian, in the Augsburg
Confession laid before Emperor Charles V, A.

D. 1530, in the Apology of the same, in Dr.
  Luther's Large and Small Catechism, in the
Articles subscribed to in the Smalcald Convention, and in
  the Formula of Concord. He solemnly
  promised that he would propose to his hearers
what would be conformed and consentient
  to these writings, and that he would
never depart from the sense which they give.'
(Dr. W. J.

Mann's _The Conservatism of Henry Melchior
  Muehlenberg_, in the _Lutheran Church Review_,
January, 1888.) And this was the position
  not of the patriarch alone, but of his
  colaborers, of the whole Synod of Pennsylvania,
which he organized, and of the sister- or
  daughter-synod of New York, during the
lifetime of Muhlenberg and Kunze. 'Those
fathers were very far from giving the Lutheran Church, as they
organized it on this new field of labor, a form and character in
any essential point different from what the Lutheran Church was in
the Old World, and especially in Germany.

They retained not only the old doctrinal standards,
  but also the old traditional elements
and forms of worship; the church-year with its
  great festivals, its Gospel- and Epistle-lessons,
  the Liturgy, the rite of Confirmation, preparatory
service for the Lord's Supper, connected with
  the confession of sins and absolution. Their
doctrinal position was unmistakably Lutheran,
in the sense in which Lutheranism is historically known, and is
something individual and distinct, and as such stands in opposition
to Romanism on the one hand, and to Zwingli, Calvin, and all other
so-called Protestant parties on the other.

Those fathers were admitted to the ministry on
  condition of their own declaration that
they were in harmony with the Confessio
  Augustana Invariata, and with all the
  other Symbolical Books of the Lutheran
Church.
  _We come to die for England_: through the hush
  Of gathered nations rose that regal cry,
From naked oaken walls one word could crush
  If those vast armoured throats dared to reply:
  But there the most implacable enemy
Felt his eyes fill with gladder, prouder tears,
  As Nelson's calm eternal face went by,
Gazing beyond all perishable fears
To some diviner goal above the waste of years.

Through the hushed fleets the vision streamed away,
  Then slowly turned once more to that deep West,
While voices cried, O, England, the new day
  Is dawning, but thy soul can take no rest.

According to the specifications he had
  read it was only one-sixteenth of an
inch thick. It was as thin as
  cardboard.

  He sat down with pencil and paper and began
calculating. The bubble had a surface area
  of 146,500 square inches and the internal air pressure was fourteen
pounds to the square inch.

Which meant that the thin metal skin
  contained a total pressure of 2,051,000
pounds.
  

Two million pounds.
  
The bubble in which he sat was a bomb, waiting
  to explode the instant any section of the thin metal weakened.

It was supposed to be an alloy so extremely strong
  that it had a high safety factor but he could not
believe that any metal so thin could be so strong.
  It was all right for engineers sitting
safely on Earth to speak of high safety factors
  but his life depended upon the fragile wall
not cracking. It made a lot of difference.
  

* * * * *
  The next day he thought he felt the hook to
which the exerciser spring was attached crack loose
  from where it was welded to the wall.

He inspected the base of the hook closely and
  there seemed to be a fine, hairline fracture
appearing around it.
  

* * * * *

He held his ear to it, listening for any
sound of a leak. It was not leaking yet
but it could commence doing so at any time.

He looked out the windows at the
illimitable void that was waiting to absorb
his pitiful little supply of air and
he thought of the days he had hauled and
jerked at the springs with all his strength,
not realizing the damage he was doing.

There was a sick feeling in his stomach for
the rest of the day and he returned again and
again to examine the hairline around the hook.

The next day he discovered an even more
serious threat: the thin skin of the bubble had
been spot-welded to the outside reinforcing
girders.

Such welding often created hard, brittle
spots that would soon crystallize from continued
movement--and there was a slight temperature difference in the
bubble between his working and sleeping hours that would daily
produce a contraction and expansion of the skin.

Especially when he used the little cooking
burner.

He quit using the burner for any purpose
and began a daily inspection of every
square inch of the bubble's walls, marking with white chalk all
the welding spots that appeared to be definitely weakened. Each day
he found more to mark and soon the little white circles were scattered
across the walls wherever he looked.
When he was not working at examining the walls he could feel the
windows watching him, like staring eyes. Out of self defense he
would have to go to them and stare back at the emptiness.
Space was alien; coldly, deadly, alien. He was a tiny spark of life
in a hostile sea of Nothing and there was no one to help him.It was not much
He wished for; but indeed I think he longed
To see the light of summer once again
Blossoming o'er the far blue hills. I know
He used to like his rough-hewn wooden bench
Placed in the sun outside the cottage door
Where in the listening stillness he could hear,
Across the waving gilly-flowers that crowned
His crumbling garden wall, the long low sigh
Of supreme peace that whispers to the hills
The sacred consolation of the sea.
He did not hope for much: he longed to live
Until the winter came again, he said;
But on the last sweet eve of May he died.

I wandered sadly through the dreaming lanes
Down to the cottage on that afternoon;
For I had known old Michael Oaktree now
So many years, so many happy years.
When I was little he had carried me
High on his back to see the harvest home,
And given me many a ride upon his wagon
Among the dusty scents of sun and hay.
He showed me how to snare the bulky trout
That lurked under the bank of yonder brook.
Indeed, he taught me many a country craft,
For I was apt to learn, and, as I learnt,
I loved the teacher of that homely lore.
Deep in my boyish heart he shared the glad
Influence of the suns and winds and waves,
Giving my childhood what it hungered for--
The rude earth-wisdom of the primal man.

He had retained his childhood: Death for him
Had no more terror than his bed. He walked
With wind and sunlight like a brother, glad
Of their companionship and mutual aid.
We, toilers after truth, are weaned too soon
From earth's dark arms and naked barbarous breast.
Too soon, too soon, we leave the golden feast,
Fetter the dancing limbs and pluck the crown
Of roses from the dreaming brow. We pass
Our lives in most laborious idleness.
For we have lost the meaning of the world;
We have gone out into the night too soon;
We have mistaken all the means of grace
And over-rated our small power to learn.
And the years move so swiftly over us:
We have so little time to live in worlds
Unrealised and unknown realms of joy,
We are so old before we learn how vain
Our effort was, how fruitlessly we cast
Our Bread upon the waters, and how weak
Our hearts were, but our chance desires how strong!
Then, in the dark, our sense of light decays;
We cannot cry to God as once we cried!
Lost in the gloom, our faith, perhaps our love,
Lies dead with years that never can return.

But Michael Oaktree was a man whose love
Had never waned through all his eighty years.
His faith was hardly faith. He seemed a part
Of all that he believed in. He had lived
In constant conversation with the sun,
The wind, the silence and the heart of peace;
In absolute communion with the Power
That rules all action and all tides of thought,
And all the secret courses of the stars;
The Power that still establishes on earth
Desire and worship, through the radiant laws
Of Duty, Love and Beauty; for through these
As through three portals of the self-same gate
The soul of man attains infinity,
And enters into Godhead. So he gained
On earth a fore-taste of Nirvana, not
The void of eastern dream, but the desire
And goal of all of us, whether thro' lives
Innumerable, by slow degrees, we near
The death divine, or from this breaking body
Of earthly death we flash at once to God.
Through simple love and simple faith, this man
Attained a height above the hope of kings.

Yet, as I softly shut the little gate
And walked across the garden, all the scents
Of mingling blossom ached like inmost pain
Deep in my heart, I know not why. They seemed
Distinct, distinct as distant evening bells
Tolling, over the sea, a secret chime
That breaks and breaks and breaks upon the heart
In sorrow rather than in sound, a chime
Strange as a streak of sunset to the moon,
Strange as a rose upon a starlit grave,
Strange as a smile upon a dead man's lips;
A chime of melancholy, mute as death
But strong as love, uttered in plangent tones
Of honeysuckle, jasmine, gilly-flowers,
Jonquils and aromatic musky leaves,
Lilac and lilies to the rose-wreathed porch.

At last I tapped and entered and was drawn
Into the bedroom of the dying man,
Who lay, propped up with pillows, quietly
Gazing; for through his open casement far
Beyond the whispers of the gilly-flowers
He saw the mellow light of eventide
Hallow the west once more; and, as he gazed,
I think I never saw so great a peace
On any human face. There was no sound
Except the slumbrous pulsing of a clock,
The whisper of the garden and, far off,
The sacred consolation of the sea.

His wife sat at his bed-side: she had passed
Her eightieth year; her only child was dead.
She had been wedded more than sixty years,
And she sat gazing with the man she loved
Quietly, out into that unknown Deep.

A butterfly floated into the room
And back again, pausing awhile to bask
And wink its painted fans on the warm sill;
A bird piped in the roses and there came
Into the childless mother's ears a sound
Of happy laughing children, far away.

Then Michael Oaktree took his wife's thin hand
Between his big rough hands. His eyes grew dark,
And, as he turned to her and died, he spoke
Two words of perfect faith and love--_Come soon_!

.

* * * * *
Liquid Cottage Colors.

The best MIXED PAINTS manufactured. Guaranteed
to give perfect satisfaction if properly
applied. They are _heavy bodied_, and for work
that does not require an extra heavy coat,
they can be thinned (with our
Old Fashioned Kettle-boiled Linseed
Oil) and still cover better than most of the
mixed paints sold in the market, many
of which have so little stock in
them that they will not give a good solid coat.O then indeed I knew how closely knit
To stars and flowers we are, how many means
Of grace there are for those that never lose
Their sense of membership in this divine
Body of God; for those that all their days
Have walked in quiet communion with the Life
That keeps the common secret of the sun,
The wind, the silence and the heart of man.
There is one God, one Love, one everlasting
Mystery of Incarnation, one creative
Passion behind the many-coloured veil.

We have obscured God's face with partial truths,
The cause of all our sorrow and sin, our wars
Of force and thought, in this unheavened world.
Yet, by the battle of our partial truths,
The past against the present and the swift
Moment of passing joy against the deep
Eternal love, ever the weaker truth
Falls to the stronger, till once more we near
The enfolding splendour of the whole. Our God
Has been too long a partial God. We are all
Made in His image, men and birds and beasts,
Mountains and clouds and cataracts and suns,
With those great Beings above our little world,
A height beyond for every depth below,
Those long-forgotten Princedoms, Virtues, Powers,
Existences that live and move in realms
As far beyond our thought as Europe lies
With all its little arts and sciences
Beyond the comprehension of the worm.
We are all partial images, we need
What lies beyond us to complete our souls;
Therefore our souls are filled with a desire
And love which lead us towards the Infinity
Of Godhead that awaits us each and all.

Peacefully through the dreaming lanes I went.
The sun sank, and the birds were hushed. The stars
Trembled like blossoms in the purple trees.
But, as I paused upon the whispering hill
The mellow light still lingered in the west,
And dark and soft against that rosy depth
A boy and girl stood knee-deep in the ferns.
Dreams of the dead man's youth were in my heart,
Yet I was very glad; and as the moon
Brightened, they kissed; and, linking hand in hand,
Down to their lamp-lit home drifted away.

Under an arch of leaves, into the gloom
I went along the little woodland road,
And through the breathless hedge of hawthorn heard
Out of the deepening night, the long low sigh
Of supreme peace that whispers to the hills
The sacrament and sabbath of the sea.


TOUCHSTONE ON A BUS


Last night I rode with Touchstone on a bus
From Ludgate Hill to World's End. It was he!
Despite the broadcloth and the bowler hat,
I knew him, Touchstone, the wild flower of folly,
The whetstone of his age, the scourge of kings,
The madcap morning star of elfin-land,
Who used to wrap his legs around his neck
For warmth on winter nights. He had slipped back,
To see what men were doing in a world
That should be wiser. He had watched a play,
Read several books, heard men discourse of art
And life; and he sat bubbling like a spring
In Arden. Never did blackbird, drenched with may,
Chuckle as Touchstone chuckled on that ride.
_Lord, what a world! Lord, what a mad, mad world!_
Then, to the jolt and jingle of the engine,
He burst into this bunch of madcap rhymes:--


THE NEW DUCKLING


I

THE NEW DUCKLING

"I want to be new," said the duckling.
  "O, ho!" said the wise old owl,
While the guinea-hen cluttered off chuckling
  To tell all the rest of the fowl.

"I should like a more elegant figure,"
  That child of a duck went on.
"I should like to grow bigger and bigger,
  Until I could swallow a swan.

"I _won't_ be the bond slave of habit,
  I _won't_ have these webs on my toes.
I want to run round like a rabbit,
  A rabbit as red as a rose.

"I _don't_ want to waddle like mother,
  Or quack like my silly old dad.
I want to be utterly other,
  And _frightfully_ modern and mad."

"Do you know," said the turkey, "you're quacking!
  There's a fox creeping up thro' the rye;
And, if you're not utterly lacking,
  You'll make for that duck-pond. Good-bye!"

"I won't," said the duckling. "I'll lift him
  A beautiful song, like a sheep;
And when I have--as it were--biffed him,
  I'll give him my feathers to keep."

Now the curious end of this fable,
  So far as the rest ascertained,
Though they searched from the barn to the stable,
  Was that _only his feathers remained_.

So he _wasn't_ the bond slave of habit,
  And he _didn't_ have webs on his toes;
And _perhaps_ he runs round like a rabbit,
  A rabbit as red as a rose.


II

THE MAN WHO DISCOVERED THE USE OF A CHAIR

The man who discovered the use of a chair,
  _Odds--bobs--
    What a wonderful man!_
He used to sit down on it, tearing his hair,
  Till he thought of a highly original plan.
For years he had sat on his chair, like you,
  _Quite--still!
    But his looks were grim_
For he wished to be famous (as great men do)
  And nobody ever would listen to him.

Now he went one night to a dinner of state
  _Hear! hear!
    In the proud Guildhall!_
And he sat on his chair, and he ate from a plate;
  But nobody heard his opinions at all;

There were ten fat aldermen down for a speech
  (_Grouse! Grouse!
    What a dreary bird!_)
With five fair minutes allotted to each,
  But never a moment for him to be heard.

But, each being ready to talk, I suppose,
  _Order! Order!_
    They cried, _for the Chair!_
And, much to their wonder, our friend arose
  And fastened his eye on the eye of the Mayor.

"We have come," he said, "to the fourteenth course!
  "_High--time,
    for the Chair_," he said.
Then, with both of his hands, and with all of his force,
  He hurled his chair at the Lord Mayor's head.

It missed that head by the width of a hair.
  _Gee--whizz!
    What a horrible squeak!_
But it crashed through the big bay-window there
  And smashed a bus into Wednesday week.

And the very next day, in the decorous Times
  (_Great--Guns--
    How the headlines ran!_)
In spite of the kings and the wars and the crimes,
  There were five full columns about that man.


ENVOI

Oh, if you get dizzy when authors write
  (_My stars!
    And you very well may!_)
That white is black and that black is white,
  You should sit, quite still, in your chair and say:

It is easy enough to be famous now,
  (_Puff--Puff!
    How the trumpets blare!_)
Provided, of course, that you don't care how,
  Like the man who discovered the use of a chair.


When the grass grew again, the neighbor did not appear with his
scythe; but one morning I found the cow tethered on the sward,
hitched near the clothes-horse, a short distance from the house.

This seemed to be the man's idea of the best way to cut the grass.

I disliked to have the cow there,
because I knew her inclination
to pull up the stake, and transfer
her field of mowing to the garden,
but especially because of her
voice. She has the most melancholy
  "moo" I ever heard. It is like
  the wail of one uninfallible, excommunicated, and lost.

It is a most distressing
perpetual reminder of the
brevity of life and the
shortness of feed.
It is unpleasant to the family.
We sometimes hear it in the
  middle of the night, breaking
  the silence like a suggestion of coming calamity.

It is as bad as the howling
of a dog at a funeral.

I told the man about it; but he seemed
to think that he was not responsible
for the cow's voice. I then told him
  to take her away; and he did,
  at intervals, shifting her to different parts of the grounds in
my absence, so that the desolate voice would startle us from
unexpected quarters.

If I were to unhitch the cow,
and turn her loose, I knew where
she would go. If I were to
lead her away, the question
was, Where? for I did not fancy
leading a cow about till I could find
  somebody who was willing to
  pasture her.

To this dilemma had my excellent
neighbor reduced me. But I found
him, one Sunday morning,--a day
when it would not do to get angry,
tying his cow at the foot of the
hill; the beast all the
  time going on in that abominable
  voice. I told the man that I could
      not have the cow in the grounds.

He said, "All right, boss;" but he did not go away.

I asked him to clear out.

The man, who is a French sympathizer
  from the Republic of Ireland, kept
his temper perfectly. He said he wasn't
  doing anything, just feeding his
      cow a bit: he wouldn't make me the least trouble in the world.

I reminded him that he had been told
  again and again not to come here;
that he might have all the
  grass, but he should not bring his cow upon the premises.

The imperturbable man assented to
  everything that I said, and kept
on feeding his cow. Before I got him to
  go to fresh scenes and pastures
      new, the Sabbath was almost broken; but it was saved by one thing:
it is difficult to be emphatic when no one is emphatic on the other
side.

The man and his cow have taught me
  a great lesson, which I shall recall
when I keep a cow. I can recommend this
  cow, if anybody wants one, as a steady boarder, whose keeping will
cost the owner little; but, if her milk is at all like her voice,
those who drink it are on the straight road to lunacy.

I think I have said that we have a game-preserve.
  We keep quails, or try to,
in the thickly wooded, bushed, and
  brushed ravine. This bird is a
      great favorite with us, dead or alive, on account of its tasteful
plumage, its tender flesh, its domestic virtues, and its pleasant
piping.

Besides, although I appreciate toads
  and cows, and all that sort of
thing, I like to have a game-preserve more
  in the English style. And we did.

For in July, while the game-law was on,
  and the young quails were
coming on, we were awakened one morning
  by firing,--musketry-firing, close
      at hand.

My first thought was, that war was declared;
  but, as I should never pay much attention
to war declared at that time in the morning,
  I went to sleep again.

But the occurrence was repeated,--and not
  only early in the morning, but at
night.
  If making his may-time sweeter
  With dews of our own dead may,
One pulse of our own dead heart-strings
  Awake in his heart that day,
We would pray for no richer guerdon,
  No praise from the careless throng;
For song is the cry of a lover
  In quest of an answering song.

As a child might run to his elders
  With news of an opening flower
We should walk with our young companion
  And talk to his heart for an hour,
As once by my own green firwood,
  And once by a Western sea,
Thank God, my own good comrades
  Have walked and talked with me.

Too mighty to make men sorrow,
  Too weak to heal their pain
(Though they that remember the hawthorn
  May find their heaven again),
We are moved by a deeper hunger;
  We are bound by a stronger cord;
For love is the heart of our music,
  And love is its one reward.