MARJORIE'S MAYTIME

by

CAROLYN WELLS

Author of the "Patty" Books

1911


CONTENTS

      I A MAY PARTY

     II A NEW PET

    III A TRIAL TRIP

     IV VISITING A CAMP

      V HELD A CAPTIVE

     VI AT GRANDMA SHERWOOD'S

    VII AN EARLY ESCAPADE

   VIII AN EXCITING PICNIC

     IX ANCIENT FINERY

      X CALLING AT THE SCHOOLHOUSE

     XI A CHANCE ACQUAINTANCE

    XII AT GRANDMA MAYNARD'S

   XIII A CHILDREN'S PARTY

    XIV A MERRY JOKE

     XV A RIDE IN MAY

    XVI AT THE CIRCUS

   XVII LITTLE VIVIAN

  XVIII IN BOSTON

    XIX FUN AT COUSIN ETHEL'S

     XX THE FESTIVAL


CHAPTER I

A MAY PARTY

"Marjorie Maynard's May
Came on a beautiful day;
  And Marjorie's Maytime
  Is Marjorie's playtime;
And that's what I sing and I say!
        The scene
was an Oriental one; and there also it was Easter Sunday, and very
early in the morning.

And at a vast distance were visible, as a stain upon the horizon,
the domes and cupolas of a great city--an image or faint abstraction,
caught perhaps in childhood from some picture of Jerusalem. And not
a bow-shot from me, upon a stone, shaded by Judean palms, there sat
a woman; and I looked, and it was--Ann!

She fixt her eyes upon me earnestly; and I said to her at length, "So,
then, I have found you at last." I waited; but she answered me not a
word.

Her face was the same as when I saw it last; the same, and yet again how
different!

Seventeen years ago, when the lamp-light of mighty London fell upon
her face, as for the last time I kissed her lips (lips, Ann, that to me
were not polluted!), her eyes were streaming with tears.
The tears were now no longer seen.

Sometimes she seemed altered; yet again sometimes _not_ altered;
and hardly older. Her looks were tranquil, but with unusual solemnity
of expression, and I now gazed upon her with some awe.

Suddenly her countenance grew dim; and, turning to the mountains, I perceived
vapors rolling between us; in a moment all had vanished; thick darkness
came on; and in the twinkling of an eye I was far away from mountains,
and by lamp-light in London, walking again with Ann--just as we
had walked when both children, eighteen years before, along the
endless terraces at Oxford Street.

Then suddenly would come a dream of far different character--a tumultuous
dream--commencing with a music such as now I often heard in sleep--music
of preparation and of awakening suspense.

The undulations of fast-gathering tumults were like the opening of the
Coronation Anthem; and like _that_, gave the feeling of a multitudinous
movement, of infinite cavalcades filing off, and the tread of
innumerable armies.

The morning was come of a mighty day--a day of crisis and an ultimate
hope for human nature, then suffering mysterious eclipse, and laboring
in some dread extremity. Somewhere, but I knew not where--somehow, but
I knew not how--by some beings, but I knew not by whom--a battle, a
strife, an agony, was traveling through all its stages--was evolving
itself, like the catastrophe of some mighty drama, with which my
sympathy was the more insupportable, from deepening confusion as
to its local scene, its cause, its nature, and its undecipherable
issue.

Miss Hart was of the party, and the title of Duchess of May seemed to fit
her exactly.

And now the time had come, and Marjorie was jumping downstairs on her way
to her own coronation. She wore a red dress, very much trimmed with
flowers made of red tissue paper. The name of the flower doesn't matter,
for they were not exact copies of nature, but they were very pretty and
effective, and red silk stockings and slippers finished off the brilliant
costume that was very becoming to Marjorie's rosy face, with its dark
eyes and dark curly hair.

As she reached the lower hall she saw Delight coming across the street,
arrayed as the White Queen. Really she looked more like a fairy, with
her frilly white frock and her golden hair and blue eyes.

"Hello, Flossy Flouncy!" called out King, using his pet name for Delight;
"you're a daisy May Queen! I offer you my humble homage!"

A daisy May Queen was an appropriate term, for Delight's white frock was
trimmed and wreathed with garlands of daisies. Not real ones, for they
were not yet in bloom, except in green-houses; and so artificial ones had
been sewn on her frock with pretty effect.

King's own attempt at a regal costume had resulted gorgeously, for with
his mother's help, he had contrived a robe of state, which looked like
purple velvet and ermine, though it was really canton flannel. But it had
a grand and noble air, and King wore it with a majestic strut that would
have done credit to any coronation.

Kitty and Dorothy wore light green dresses trimmed with pink paper roses,
and were very pretty little princesses; while Rosy Posy as Maid of Honor
wore one of her own little white frocks, tied up lavishly with blue
ribbons.

Flip Henderson's costume was a good deal like King's, as he had purposely
copied it, not having any other design to work from.

Mrs. Maynard and Miss Hart were not so fancifully attired as the younger
members of the party, but they wore pretty light gowns with more or less
floral decoration.

The whole affair was impromptu; the children had spent the morning
getting it up, and now were going to devote the afternoon to the party
itself.

"We must make a procession," began Marjorie, who was mistress of
ceremonies; "you must go first, Mother, because the May Queen Dowager is
the most honorable one."

"Me go first, too," announced Rosy Posy, taking her mother's hand.

"Yes, you may," said Marjorie. "In fact, Baby, you'd better go first of
all, because you're Maid of Honor; and so you walk in front of the Queen
Dowager."

So Rosy Posy toddled ahead, followed by Mrs. Maynard, who carried a wand
of flowers with gracious effect.

"The Queens ought to come next," said King, but Marjorie's sense of
politeness interfered with this plan.

"No, the Duchess must come next," she said; "I don't care whether it's
right or not as a procession, but I think Miss Hart ought to go before
us children."

So the Duchess of May took her place next in line, and then the two
Queens side by side followed.

Then came the two Princesses, and behind them, the King of May and the
Prince, walking together in affable companionship. It was an imposing
sight, and the paraders were so pleased with themselves that they marched
round the lawn several times before going to the scene of the festivity.

But at last they went to the Coronation Bowers, and decided it was time
for the ceremonies to begin.

The two crowns were in readiness for the two Queens. They were exactly
alike, and were made of pasteboard covered with gilt paper. Miss Hart had
helped with these, and they were really triumphs of gorgeous beauty. Each
lay on a lace-trimmed cushion, and with them were long golden sceptres
with gilt balls on top.

"Who's to do to the crowning?" asked King.

"Why, I supposed you had those details all settled in advance," said Miss
Hart, laughing.

"No," returned King, "we didn't fix things up ahead much, we thought we'd
just make up as we went along. I'll crown Flossy Flouncy, and Flip, you
crown Marjorie,--that'll be all right."

The other members of the Royal Family took seats on rustic benches, and
the two Queens mounted their thrones. The bowers were pretty, and as they
stood side by side, framing the smiling Queens, it was a pretty picture.

"I hate to stop the proceedings," said Miss Hart, "but I think I must run
over and get my camera, and take a snap-shot of this Coronation."

"All right," said King, agreeably, "we'll wait. We'll sing a song while
you're gone, and you can skip over and back in no time."

So while the children sang the "Star Spangled Banner," Miss Hart ran
across the street, and came back with her camera.

"Better wait until they get their crowns on," suggested Kitty, "they'll
look a heap queenlier then."

So the coronation ceremony proceeded. The King and the Prince advanced
majestically to the thrones, bearing the crowns on their cushions.

"Who'll make the speech?" asked the King.

"You may," said Flip, politely.

"No, you're better at it than I am. Well, we'll each make one. You can
begin."

So Flip advanced, and holding his burden high at arms' length he dropped
on one knee before Marjorie, and began to declaim in oratorical tones:

"Fair Maiden, Queen of May, I salute thee! I salute all the rest of you
too, but mostly the Queen, because she is the principal pebble on the
beach. Queens always are. And so, Fair Maiden, Fair Maynard Maiden, I
salute thee."

"That's enough saluting," put in King; "go on with your crowning."

"And so, fair Queen of May, I crown thee, our Queen and our Sovereign!
May your shadow never grow less, and may you have many happy returns of
the day! And with kind regards to all, I'm your humble servant."

Having set the crown squarely on Marjorie's head, Flip bowed low in
humble salutation, and then resumed an upright position, rather pleased
with his own speech.

"I accept thy homage, O Prince," said Marjorie, as she bowed and smiled
with queenly grace; "and I shall endeavor to be the best Queen in all
the world, except Delight, who will probably be better."

With this graceful tribute to her companion queen, Marjorie sat down,
holding her head very straight lest her crown should tumble off.

Then King advanced to Delight, and holding up the other crown, began his
declamatory effort.

"Oh, Queen! Oh, White Queen! Oh, our beautiful sovereign! I bring to thee
a crown,--a crown to crown you with, to show to all that you are our
beloved and beloving Queen of May. Accept, oh, Queen, this crown and
sceptre, and with them the assurance of our alleged loyalty, our humble
submission, and our majestic royalty! I am a little at a loss for any
thing further to say, as I can't think of any more highfalutin words, so
you may as well put on your crown, and let's have some fun."

But though King's high-flown language failed him, it was with a very
magnificent manner that he crowned his Queen and gave her the
flower-trimmed sceptre.

Then Delight, looking lovelier than ever in her added regalia, made her
own little speech.

"I thank you, my people, for your tokens of love and loyalty. I thank you
for choosing me to be your queen, and my rule shall be a happy one. My
only law is, for everybody to do just what they want to, and so I
pronounce the Coronation Ceremonies over."

They could not have worked in his province any more; nay perhaps they
could not have now worked in their own province.

It is the inevitable position of a great man among small men. Small men,
most active, useful, are to be seen everywhere, whose whole activity
depends on some conviction which to you is palpably a limited one;
imperfect, what we call an _error_.

But would it be a kindness always, is it a duty always or often, to disturb
them in that? Many a man, doing loud work in the world, stands only on
some thin traditionality, conventionality to him indubitable, to
you incredible: break that beneath him, he sinks to endless depths!

"I might have my hand full of truth," said Fontenelle, "and open only
my little finger."
And if this be the fact even in matters of doctrine, how much more in
all departments of practise! He that cannot withal _keep his mind to
himself_ cannot practise any considerable thing whatever. And we call it
"dissimulation," all this? What would you think of calling the general
of an army a dissembler because he did not tell every corporal and private
soldier who pleased to put the question, what his thoughts were
about everything?

--Cromwell, I should rather say, managed all this in a manner we must
admire for its perfection.

An endless vortex of such questioning "corporals" rolled confusedly
round him through his whole course; whom he did answer. It must have
been as a great true-seeing man that he managed this too. Not one proved
falsehood, as I said; not one! Of what man that ever wound himself through
such a coil of things will you say so much?

But in fact there are two errors widely prevalent, which pervert to the
very basis our judgments formed about such men as Cromwell; about their
"ambition," "falsity," and suchlike. The first is what I might call
substituting the _goal_ of their career for the course and starting-point
of it. The vulgar Historian of a Cromwell fancies that he had determined
on being Protector of England, at the time when he was plowing the marsh
lands of Cambridgeshire. His career lay all mapped-out: a program
of the whole drama; which he then step by step dramatically
unfolded with all manner of cunning, deceptive dramaturgy, as he went
on,--the hollow scheming _Hypocrites_, or Play-actor, that he was!
This is a radical perversion; all but universal in such cases. And
think for an instant how different the fact is! How much does one of
_us_ foresee of his own life? Short way ahead of us it is all dim;
an _un_wound skein of possibilities, of apprehensions, attemptabilities,
vague-looming hopes. This Cromwell had _not_ his life lying all in
that fashion of Program, which he needed then, with that unfathomable
cunning of his, only to enact dramatically, scene after scene! Not
so. We see it so; but to him it was in no measure so. What absurdities
would fall away of themselves, were this one undeniable fact kept
honestly in view by History!
Historians indeed will tell you that they do keep it in view;--but look
whether such is practically the fact! Vulgar History, as in this
Cromwell's case, omits it altogether; even the best kinds of History only
remember it now and then. To remember it duly with rigorous perfection,
as in the fact it _stood_, requires indeed a rare faculty; rare, nay
impossible. A very Shakespeare for faculty; or more than Shakespeare;
who could _enact_ a brother man's biography, see with the brother
man's eyes at all points of his course what things _he_ saw; in
short, _know_ his course and him, as few "Historians" are like to do.

Half or more of all the thick-piled perversions which distort our image
of Cromwell, will disappear, if we honestly so much as try to
represent them so; in sequence, as they _were_; not in the lump,
as they are thrown down before us.

But a second error which I think the generality commit refers to this same
"ambition" itself.

We exaggerate the ambition of Great Men; we mistake what the nature of
it is. Great Men are not ambitious in that sense; he is a small poor
man that is ambitious so. Examine the man who lives in misery because he
does not shine above other men; who goes about producing himself,
pruriently anxious about his gifts and claims; struggling to force everybody,
as it were begging everybody for God's sake, to acknowledge him a great
man, and set him over the heads of men! Such a creature is among
the wretchedest sights seen under this sun. A _great_ man? A poor
morbid prurient empty man; fitter for the ward of a hospital than
for a throne among men. I advise you to keep out of his way.

He cannot walk on quiet paths; unless you will look at him, wonder
at him, write paragraphs about him, he cannot live.

It is the _emptiness_ of the man, not his greatness.

Because there is nothing in himself, he hungers and thirsts that you would
find something in him. In good truth, I believe no great man, not so much
as a genuine man who had health and real substance in him of
whatever magnitude, was ever much tormented in this way.

Your Cromwell, what good could it do him to be "noticed" by noisy crowds
of people? God his Maker already noticed him. He, Cromwell, was already
there; no notice would make _him_ other than he already was.

Till his hair was grown gray, and Life from the down-hill slope was all
seen to be limited, not infinite but finite, and all a measurable matter
_how_ it went,--he had been content to plow the ground, and read
his Bible.

He in his old days could not support it any longer, without selling
himself to Falsehood, that he might ride in gilt carriages to
Whitehall, and have clerks with bundles of papers haunting him,
"Decide this, decide that," which in utmost sorrow of heart no man
can perfectly decide!

What could gilt carriages do for this man? From of old was there not
in his life a weight of meaning, a terror and a splendor as of
Heaven itself?

His existence there as man set him beyond the need of gilding. Death,
Judgment, and Eternity:
these already lay as the background of whatsoever he thought or did.

All his life lay begirt as in a sea of nameless Thoughts, which no
speech of a mortal could name.

God's Word, as the Puritan prophets of that time had read it: this was
great, and all else was little to him.

To call such a man "ambitious," to figure him as the prurient wind-bag
described above, seems to me the poorest solecism. Such a man will say:
"Keep your gilt carriages and huzzaing mobs, keep your red-tape clerks,
your influentialities, your important businesses.

Leave me alone, leave me alone; there is _too much of life_ in me already!"
Old Samuel Johnson, the greatest soul in England in his day, was
not ambitious.

"Corsica Boswell" flaunted at public shows with printed ribbons round his
hat; but the great old Samuel stayed at home. The world-wide soul, wrapt-up
in its sorrows;--what could ribbons in the hat, do for it?

Ah, yes, I will say again: The great _silent_ men! Looking round on the
noisy inanity of the world, words with little meaning, actions
with little worth, one loves to reflect on the great Empire of
_Silence_.

The noble silent men, scattered here and there, each in his own department;
silently thinking; silently working; whom no Morning Newspaper
makes mention of!

They are the salt of the Earth. A country that has none or few of these
is in a bad way.

Like a forest which had no _roots_; which had all turned into leaves and
boughs;--which must soon wither and be no forest.

Woe for us if we had nothing but what we can _show_, or speak. Silence,
the great Empire of Silence: higher than the stars; deeper than
the Kingdoms of Death!

It alone is great; all else is small.--I hope we English will long maintain
our _grand talent pour le silence_. Let others that cannot do without
standing on barrel-heads, to spout, and be seen of all the market-place,
cultivate speech exclusively,--become a most green forest without roots!
Solomon says, There is a time to speak; but also a time to keep
silence.

Of some great silent Samuel, not urged to writing, as old Samuel Johnson
says he was by _want of money_ and nothing other, one might ask,
"Why do not you too get up and speak; promulgate your system, found
your sect?"

"Truly," he will answer, "I am _continent_ of my thought hitherto;
happily I have yet had the ability to keep it in me, no compulsion
strong enough to speak it.

My 'system' is not for promulgation first of all; it is for serving myself
to live by.

That is the great purpose of it to me. And then the 'honor'?
Alas, yes;--but as Cato said of the statue: So many statues in
that Forum of yours, may it not be better if they ask, Where is
Cato's statue?"

But now, by way of counterpoise to this of Silence, let me say that there
are two kinds of ambition: one wholly blamable, the other laudable and
inevitable.

Nature has provided that the great silent Samuel shall not be silent too
long. The selfish wish to shine over others, let it be accounted
altogether poor and miserable.

"Seekest thou great things, seek them not": this is most true. And yet, I
say, there is an irrepressible tendency in every man to develop himself
according to the magnitude which Nature has made him of; to speak
out, to act out, what Nature has laid in him.

This is proper, fit, inevitable; nay, it is a duty, and even the summary
of duties for a man.

The meaning of life here on earth might be defined as consisting
in this: To unfold your _self_, to work what thing you have the
faculty for.

It is a necessity for the human being, the first law of our existence.
Coleridge beautifully remarks that the infant learns to _speak_ by this
necessity it feels.--We will say therefore: To decide about ambition,
whether it is bad or not, you have two things to take into view. Not the
coveting of the place alone, but the fitness for the man of the place
withal: that is the question. Perhaps the place was _his_, perhaps he
had a natural right, and even obligation to seek the place!

Mirabeau's ambition to be Prime Minister, how shall we blame it, if he
were "the only man in France that could have done any good there"?

Hopefuler perhaps had he not so clearly _felt_ how much good he
could do!

But a poor Necker, who could do no good, and had even felt that he
could do none, yet sitting broken-hearted because they had flung
him out and he was now quit of it, well might Gibbon mourn over him.

--Nature, I say, has provided amply that the silent great man shall
strive to speak withal; _too_ amply, rather!

IV
IN PRAISE OF THOSE WHO TOIL[50] 

Two men I honor, and no third.

First, the toilworn Craftsman that with earth-made implement laboriously
conquers the Earth, and makes her man's.

Venerable to me is the hard Hand; crooked, coarse; wherein
notwithstanding lies a cunning virtue, indefeasibly royal, as of
the Sceptre of this Planet.

Venerable too is the rugged face, all weathertanned, besoiled, with
its rude intelligence; for it is the face of a Man living manlike.

O, but the more venerable for thy rudeness, and even because we
must pity as well as love thee!

Hardly-entreated Brother!

For us was thy back so bent, for us were thy straight limbs and
fingers so deformed; thou wert our Conscript, on whom the lot fell,
and fighting our battles wert so marred.

For in thee too lay a god-created Form, but it was not to be unfolded;
encrusted must it stand with the thick adhesions and defacements of
Labor; and thy body, like thy soul, was not to know freedom.

Yet toil on, toil on: _thou_ art in thy duty, be out of it who may; thou
toilest for the altogether indispensable, for daily bread.

A second man I honor, and still more highly: Him who is seen toiling
for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread
of Life.

Is not he too in his duty; endeavoring towards inward Harmony;
revealing this, by act or by word, through all his outward endeavors,
be they high or low?

Highest of all, when his outward and his inward endeavor are one:
when we can name him Artist; not earthly Craftsman only, but inspired
Thinker, who with heaven-made Implement conquers Heaven for us!

If the poor and humble toil that we have Food, must not the high and
glorious toil for him in return, that he have Light, have Guidance,
Freedom, Immortality?

--These two, in all their degrees, I honor: all else is chaff and
dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth.

V

THE CERTAINTY OF JUSTICE[51]

Foolish men imagine that because judgment for an evil thing is delayed,
there is no justice, but an accidental one, here below.

Judgment for an evil thing is many times delayed some day or two, some
century or two, but it is sure as life, it is sure as death! In the center
of the world-whirlwind, verily now as in the oldest days, dwells
and speaks a God.

The great soul of the world is _just_.

O brother, can it be needful now, at this late epoch of experience,
after eighteen centuries of Christian preaching for one thing, to
remind thee of such a fact; which all manner of Mahometans, old
pagan Romans, Jews, Scythians and heathen Greeks, and indeed more
or less all men that God made, have managed at one time to see into;
nay which thou thyself, till "red-tape" strangled the inner life
of thee, hadst once some inkling of: That there _is_ justice here
below; and even, at bottom, that there is nothing else but justice!

Forget that, thou hast forgotten all. Success will never more
attend thee: how can it now?

Thou hast the whole Universe against thee. No more success: mere
sham-success, for a day and days; rising ever higher,--towards its
Tarpeian Rock.

Alas, how, in thy softhung Longacre vehicle, of polished leather to the
bodily eye, of red-tape philosophy, of expediencies, clubroom
moralities, Parliamentary majorities to the mind's eye, thou
beautifully rollest: But knowest thou whitherward?

Is it towards the _road's end_? Old use-and-wont; established methods,
habitudes, _once_ true and wise; man's noblest tendency, his perseverance,
and man's ignoblest, his inertia; whatsoever of noble and ignoble
Conservatism there is in men and Nations, strongest always in the
strongest men and Nations; all this is as a road to thee, paved
smooth through the abyss,--till all this _end_.

Till men's bitter necessities can endure thee no more. Till Nature's patience
with thee is done; and there is no road or footing any farther, and
the abyss yawns sheer!...

Parliaments and Courts of Westminster are venerable to me; how
venerable; gray with a thousand years of honorable age!

For a thousand years and more, Wisdom, and faithful Valor, struggling
amid much Folly and greedy Baseness, not without most sad distortions
in the struggle, have built them up; and they are as we see. For a
thousand years, this English Nation has found them useful or supportable:
they have served this English Nation's wants; been a road to it through
the abyss of Time. They are venerable, they are great and strong.

And yet it is good to remember always that they are not the venerablest,
nor the greatest, nor the strongest!

Acts of Parliament are venerable; but if they correspond not with the
writing on the "Adamant Tablet," what are they? Properly their one element
of venerableness, of strength of greatness, is, that they at all
times correspond therewith as near as by human possibility they can.

They are cherishing destruction in their bosom every hour that
they continue otherwise....

Oh, what fun we will have!" and Marjorie
looked as if her cup of bliss were full and running over.

"And after that," said Mrs. Maynard, "if none of you object too
seriously, we thought perhaps a little run up through New England would
prove attractive."

"Mother," said King, looking at her twinkling eyes, "you planned all this
out before? It's no surprise to you!"

"Very true, King; your father and I planned it while we were on our
Southern trip. We had such a delightful outing, it seemed only fair that
we should take you children for a trip also. And your father has been
thinking for some time about buying an automobile, and as he can take the
time now, it all works in beautifully."

"Beautiful! I should think it was!" cried Marjorie; "and Mother, will we
all have motor coats and goggles, and all those queer things that they
wear in automobiles?"

"You won't have any queer things, and I doubt if you'll need goggles; but
you and Kitty shall have pretty motor coats, and pretty hoods and veils.
We'll go on Monday to buy them."

"Oh," sighed Marjorie, "it just does seem too good to be true! It's like
a fairy dream, and I 'spect I'll wake up every minute. What about
lessons, Mother?"

"We've thought of that; but as your lessons would stop the first of June
anyway, you'll only lose a few weeks, and so we're going to take you all
out of school for that time. For this year, at any rate, Maytime shall be
playtime for the Maynards."

"I'm so glad I'm a Maynard, and live in the Maynard family," said Kitty,
with a deep sigh of satisfaction.

"So'm I," declared Marjorie; "there never was such a nice family, with
such a bee-yootiful father and mother!"

And as if this were a signal for a general onslaught, the three young
Maynards made a dash for the two older Maynards, and nearly choked them
with well-meant but rather athletic embraces, which was their fashion of
expressing approval and appreciation.


CHAPTER III

A TRIAL TRIP


Owing to some unexpected delay, the automobile didn't arrive until
Wednesday. But when at last it came whirring up the drive, the assembled
Maynards on the veranda greeted it with shouts of approval.

"Did you ever see such a beauty!" cried Marjorie, as she danced around
the new car, and clambering up on the farther side, jumped over the
closed door, and fell plump into one of the cushioned seats.

"Oh, Mopsy!" cried her father, "that isn't the way to get in."

"I don't care,--I am in! And it's just great in here! Why, there's room
enough for a whole party."

The chauffeur who brought the car seemed a little surprised at the antics
of the children, for he was a stolid Englishman, and not much accustomed
to American exuberance.

Mr. Maynard had engaged him on the best recommendations, and felt sure
that he was a trust-worthy and capable man. His name was Pompton, and he
was large and muscular, with a face that was grave but not ill-natured.

Kingdon made friends with him at once, and climbing up into the seat
beside him, asked innumerable questions about the various parts of the
machine.

"Suppose we go at once for a trial spin," proposed Mr. Maynard, and
almost before he had completed his sentence, a chorus of assent rose in
response.

"Oh, do, Father," cried King; "and let me stay here in front, so I can
see how it works."

"Some other time you may do that, King, but this time I want to sit in
front myself, so hop out, and take one of the orchestra chairs."

"All right, sir," and King tumbled out, and flew around to the other side
of the car. Mrs. Maynard, Kitty, and Rosamond were already seated in the
wide, comfortable back seat. This left two seats in the tonneau for King
and Marjorie, and with Mr. Maynard in front, by the side of Pompton, the
car offered perfect accommodations for the Maynard family. It was a big
touring car of a most approved make, and up-to-date finish. The top could
be opened or closed at will, and there were many appurtenances and clever
contrivances for comfort, designed to add to the delights of a long tour.

The family had been so eager to start at once that they had not paused to
get hats or wraps, and as the top was down, the strong breeze blew their
hair all about, and also made conversation a little difficult.

But the Maynard children were not baffled by difficulties, and they
raised their voices until they were audible in spite of the wind.

"Isn't it magnificent!" screamed Marjorie, pulling at King's collar to
attract his attention.

"Perfectly gorgiferous!--and then some!" he yelled back, a little
preoccupied in manner, because he was leaning over the chauffeur's
shoulder, in his impatience to learn how to run the machine.

They went flying through the streets of Rockwell, and out into the
country for a little run. Then as they were to start on their tour next
day, Mrs. Maynard declared they must be turning homeward.

"Oh, Father," cried Marjorie, "after Mother gets out, mayn't we take
Delight out for a few moments? Even only just around the block?"

"Will she care to go, Mopsy? You know an automobile isn't such a
wonderful novelty to her as it is to you."

"Oh, yes, she'll care to go in ours,--and anyway I mean just for a
minute."

"All right then, chickabiddy; we'll put Mother and Baby out, then we'll
take Delight around the block, and that'll be about all for to-day."

So Mrs. Maynard and Rosy Posy were deposited on their own doorstep, and
the big red car flew across the street to give Delight an exhibition
of its glories.

She was glad to go, but she was far from being as enthusiastic as the
Maynard children, for Delight was a timid little girl, and never felt
entirely at her ease in a fast-flying motor. She nestled in the back seat
between Marjorie and Kitty, and grasped both their hands when the car
swung swiftly around a corner.

Then they happened to meet Flip Henderson walking along the street, and
they picked him up as an extra passenger, and then Kitty said: "Oh, now
we've got the whole Jinks Club except Dorothy Adams. Do let's stop for
her, Father, and then go round one more block."

Good-natured Mr. Maynard consented, and though there was no vacant seat,
Dorothy was bundled in somehow, and the crowd of shouting, laughing
children were driven around several blocks.

The quiet little town of Rockwell was amazed at the sight, and thought it
must be some new kind of a circus advertisement, until they realized that
it was the Maynard family, and people had long ceased to be surprised at
what the Maynards did.

But at last the children who were not Maynards were left at their
respective homes, and the big red car again turned in at its own home.

"Where are you going to keep it, Father?" asked King, as they all
scrambled out.

"I shall have a garage built on the place as soon as we get back; but for
to-night our pet will have to sleep in other lodgings. Skip into the
house now, you children, for I want to talk to Pompton without the
interruption of a crowd of chatter-boxes."

So the three went into the house and stood together at a front window,
flattening their noses against the glass, as they looked out at their new
treasure. King was in the middle, behind his two sisters, with an arm
around both their necks, and he explained to them in a very learned way,
a great many points about the machine that they did not understand. His
explanations were far from being correct or true, but as he didn't know
that, nor the girls either, it really made no difference.

At last Pompton drove away with the car, and they watched it disappear
down the street, and then turned to greet Mr. Maynard as he entered.

Marjorie went straight up to her father, and stood in front of him.

"I do think you are the most wonderful Father in the whole world," she
said, eyeing him in a judicial manner.

"And the grandest!" said Kitty, snuggling herself in under his arm.

"And the tip-toppest!" declared King, grasping his father's other hand.

"Well, well!" exclaimed Mr. Maynard, dropping into an armchair, "I am
certainly catching some fine compliments! And I'd like to return them.
I don't mind confessing that I think you young people just about the
highest class of goods in the market!"

"But we're not as splendid as you are," said Marjorie, thoughtfully;
"because you do things for us, and we never do anything for you."

"Oh, yes, you do," returned her father; "you do all I want you to, by
just living, and growing, and trying to behave yourselves properly."

"But we don't always do that," said Kitty, with a repentant air.

"You do, Kit," said King, generously, "you're always good. Mops and I are
the ones that slip up."

"It's human nature to slip up occasionally," said Mr. Maynard, "but I
think on the whole my kiddies do pretty well. Now, as you know, we start
to-morrow for Grandma Sherwood's, and while I'm not going to give you a
lecture on the subject, I _am_ going to ask you to behave pretty fairly
well while you're at her house. You know she's not as young as she once
was, and a lot of mischievous children may make her a great deal of
trouble if they wish to,--or they can refrain from doing so. Need I say
any more?"

"Not another word, Father," declared Marjorie; "I promise to be as good
as pie,--custard pie!"

"And I'll be as good as mince pie," said King, "you can't beat that!"

"Yes, I can," said Kitty; "I shall be as good as lemon meringue
pie,--with a high, fluffy meringue, and little browny wiggles all over
the top."

"You've struck it, Kit," said her brother, admiringly; "that _is_ the
best kind of pie,--and you'll be the best of the Maynard bunch! Say,
Kitty, doesn't it hurt you to be so good?"

"No," said Kitty, placidly, "I like it."

There was not much fun in teasing Kitty, she was too matter-of-fact, so
King turned his attentions to Marjorie, and with apparent innocence
kicked out his foot just in time for her to stumble over it. This led to
a general scrimmage, in which two Maynards, two sofa-pillows, and a
footstool became very much tangled up, and Mr. Maynard and Kitty sat
smiling indulgently at them, with the air of enjoying the performance and
not caring to take part in it.

Of course the dinner hour and all the hours until bedtime were occupied
in conversation about the projected trip, and when at last the little
Maynards were tucked into bed, their dreams still continued to hover
around the same subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day proved to be most kindly disposed as to weather, and the
brilliant May sunshine sparkled on the big red car as it stood waiting
for its passengers.

There was more or less hurry and scurry of getting ready, but the elder
Maynards were of systematic and methodical habits, so that really
everything was ready ahead of time. Two trunks had been sent on by
express to Grandma Sherwood's, and one large trunk which was to accompany
them on their trip, was already fastened in place at the back of the car.

The children all had new motor coats of pongee, which they could wear
over other wraps if necessary. The girls also had fascinating little
hoods of shirred silk, Marjorie's being rose color, and Kitty's blue.
They greatly admired themselves and each other in these costumes, and
Marjorie declared it gave her a trippy feeling just to look at them.

They started at ten o'clock. Mrs. Maynard and Kitty sat back with
Rosamond between them. Midget and King in the next two seats, and Mr.
Maynard in front with the chauffeur.

They went flying down the drive to a chorus of good-byes from the
servants, who assembled to see them off, and who would take care of the
house in their absence.

"That is a question, madam," said her son, "which I have the best right
to ask; and I must request of the Master of Ravenswood to follow
me where he can answer it at leisure."
Bucklaw interposed, saying, "No man on earth should usurp his
previous right in demanding an explanation from the Master.

Craigengelt," he added, in an undertone, "d--n ye, why do you stand staring
as if you saw a ghost? fetch me my sword from the gallery."
"I will relinquish to none," said Colonel Ashton, "my right of calling
to account the man who has offered this unparalleled affront to my
family."

"Be patient, gentlemen," said Ravenswood, turning sternly toward them,
and waving his hand as if to impose silence on their altercation. "If you
are as weary of your lives as I am, I will find time and place to pledge
mine against one or both; at present, I have no leisure for the dispute
of triflers."
"Triflers!"

cried Colonel Ashton, half unsheathing his sword, while Bucklaw laid his
hand on the hilt of that which Craigengelt had just reached him.

Sir William Ashton, alarmed for his son's safety, rushed between the young
men and Ravenswood, exclaiming, "My son, I command you--Bucklaw,
I entreat you--keep the peace, in the name of the Queen and of the
law!"

"In the name of the law of God," said Brid-the-Bent, advancing also with
uplifted hands between Bucklaw, the Colonel, and the object of their
resentment--"in the name of Him who brought peace on earth and
good-will to mankind, I implore--I beseech--I command you to forbear
violence toward each other!

God hateth the bloodthirsty man; he who striketh with the sword shall
perish with the sword."

"Do you take me for a dog, sir," said Colonel Ashton, turning fiercely
upon him, "or something more brutally stupid, to endure this insult in
my father's house?

Let me go, Bucklaw! He shall account to me, or, by Heavens I will stab
him where he stands!"

"You shall not touch him here," said Bucklaw; "he once gave me my
life, and were the devil come to fly away with the whole house and
generation, he shall have nothing but fair play."

The passions of the two young men thus counteracting each other gave
Ravenswood leisure to exclaim, in a stern and steady voice, "Silence!--let
him who really seeks danger take the fitting time when it is to
be found; my mission here will be shortly accomplished.

Is that your handwriting, madam?" he added in a softer tone, extending
toward Miss Ashton her last letter.

A faltering "Yes," seemed rather to escape from her lips than to be
uttered as a voluntary answer.

"And is this also your handwriting?"

extending toward her the mutual engagement.

Lucy remained silent.

Terror, and a yet stronger and more confused feeling, so utterly
disturbed her understanding that she probably scarcely comprehended
the question that was put to her.

"If you design," said Sir William Ashton, "to found any legal claim
on that paper, sir, do not expect to receive any answer to an
extrajudicial question."

"Sir William Ashton," said Ravenswood, "I pray you, and all who
hear me, that you will not mistake my purpose.

If this young lady, of her own free will desires the restoration of
this contract, as her letter would seem to imply, there is not a
withered leaf which this autumn wind strews on the heath that is
more valueless in my eyes.

But I must and will hear the truth from her own mouth; without this
satisfaction I will not leave this spot.

Murder me by numbers you possibly may; but I am an armed man--I am a
desperate man, and I will not die without ample vengeance. This is my
resolution, take it as you may.

I WILL hear her determination from her own mouth; from her own mouth,
alone, and without witnesses, will I hear it.

Now, choose," he said drawing his sword with the right hand, and, with the
left, by the same motion taking a pistol from his belt and cocking it,
but turning the point of one weapon and the muzzle of the other to the
ground--"choose if you will have this hall flooded with blood, or
if you will grant me the decisive interview with my affianced bride
which the laws of God and the country alike entitle me to demand."

II
THE DEATH OF MEG MERRILES[8]

The surgeon arrived at the same time,
and was about to probe the wound;
but Meg resisted the assistance
    of either. "It's
    no what man can
do, that will heal my
    body, or save my spirit.

Let me speak what I have to say, and then ye may work your will,
I'se be nae hinderance.

But where's Henry Bertram?"

The assistants, to whom this name had been long a stranger, gazed upon
each other. "Yes," she said, in a stronger and harsher tone, "I said
Henry Bertram of Ellangowan.

Stand from the light and let me see him."
All eyes were turned toward Bertram, who approached the wretched
couch.

The wounded woman took hold of his hand. "Look at him," she said, "all
that ever saw his father or his grandfather, and bear witness if he
is not their living image?" A murmur went through the crowd--the
resemblance was too striking to be denied. "And now hear me--and
let that man," pointing to Hatteraick, who was seated with his
keepers on a sea-chest at some distance--"let him deny what I say,
if he can.

That is Henry Bertram, son to Godfrey Bertram, umquihile of Ellangowan;
that young man is the very lad-bairn that Dirk Hatteraick carried
off from Warroch wood the day that he murdered the gager.

I was there like a wandering spirit--for I longed to see that wood or we
left the country.

I saved the bairn's life, and sair, sair I prigged and prayed they would
leave him wi' me--but they bore him away, and he's been lang ower the
sea, and now he's come for his ain, and what should withstand him?

I swore to keep the secret till he was ane-an'-twenty--I kenn'd he
behoved to dree his weird till that day cam--I keepit that oath
which I took to them--but I made another vow to myself, and if I
lived to see the day of his return, I would set him in his father's
seat, if every step was on a dead man.

I have keepit that oath, too;--I will be ae step mysell--he" (pointing
to Hatteraick), "will soon be another, and there will me ane mair
yet."

The clergyman now interposing, remarked it was a pity this deposition
was not regularly taken and written down, and the surgeon urged
the necessity of examining the wound, previously to exhausting her
by questions.

When she saw them removing Hatteraick, in order to clear the room and
leave the surgeon to his operations, she called out aloud, raising
herself at the same time upon the couch, "Dirk Hatteraick, you and I
will never meet again until we are before the judgment seat--will
you own to what I have said, or will you dare deny it?"

He turned his hardened brow upon her, with a look of dumb and inflexible
defiance. "Dirk Hatteraick, dare ye deny, with my blood upon your
hands, one word of what my dying breath is uttering?"

He looked at her with the same expression of hardihood and dogged stubbornness,
and moved his lips, but uttered no sound. "Then fareweel!" she said,
"and God forgive you! your hand has sealed my evidence.

When I was in life, I was the mad randy gipsy, that had been scourged,
and banished, and branded--that had begged from door to door, and
been hounded like a stray from parish to parish--wha would hae
minded her tale?

But now I am a dying woman, and my words will not fall to the ground, any
more than the earth will cover my blood!"

She here paused, and all left the hut except the surgeon and two
or three women.

After a short examination, he shook his head, and resigned his post
by the dying woman's side to the clergyman.

A chaise returning empty to Kippletringan had been stopt on the
high-road by a constable, who foresaw it would be necessary to
convey Hatteraick to jail.

The driver, understanding what was going on at Derncleugh, left his
horses to the care of the blackguard boy, confiding, it is to be
supposed, rather in the years and discretion of the cattle, than
in those of their keeper, and set off full speed, to see, as he
exprest himself, "whaten a sort o' fun was gaun on."

He arrived just as the group of tenants and peasants, whose numbers
increased every moment, satiated with gazing upon the rugged features
of Hatteraick, had turned their attention toward Bertram.

Almost all of them, especially the aged men who had seen Ellengowan in
his better days, felt and acknowledged the justice of Meg Merriles's appeal.
But the Scotch are a cautious people; they remembered there was
another in possession of the estate, and they as yet only exprest
their feelings in low whispers to each other.

Our friend, Jock Jabos, the postilion, forced his way into the middle
of the circle; but no sooner cast his eyes upon Bertram, than he started
back in amazement, with a solemn exclamation, "As sure as there's
breath in man, it's auld Ellengowan."
This public declaration of an unprejudiced witness was just the
spark wanted to give fire to the popular feeling, which burst forth
in three distinct shouts: "Bertram forever!"

"Long life to the heir of Ellangowan!" "God send him his ain, and to live
among us as his forebears did of yore!"
"I hae been seventy years on the land," said one person.

"I and mine hae been seventy and seven to that," said another; "I have a
right to ken the glance of a Bertram."
"I and mine hae been three hundred years here," said another old
man, "and I shall sell my last cow but I'll see the young laird
placed in his right."

The women, ever delighted with the marvelous, and not less so when a
handsome young man is the subject of the tale, added their shrill
acclamations to the general all-hail.

"Blessings on him--he's the very picture o' his father!

The Bertrams were ay the wale o' the countryside!"
"Eh! that his puir mother, that died of grief and in doubt about him,
had but lived to see this day!" exclaimed some female voices.

"But we'll help him to his ain, kimmers," cried others; "and before Gossin
shall keep the Place of Ellangowan, we'll howk him out o't wi' our
nails!"
Others crowded around Dinmont, who was nothing loath to tell what
he knew of his friend, and to boast the honor which he had in
contributing to the discovery.

As he was known to several of the principal farmers present, his testimony
afforded an additional motive to the general enthusiasm. In short, it
was one of those moments of intense feeling, when the frost of the
Scottish people melts like a snow-wreath, and the dissolving torrent
carries dam and dike before it.

The sudden shouts interrupted the devotions of the clergyman; and Meg, who
was in one of those dozing fits of stupefaction that precede the close
of existence, suddenly started, "Dinna ye hear?

--dinna ye hear?--he's owned!--he's owned!

--I lived but for this.

I am a sinful woman; but if my curse brought it down, my blessing has taen
it off!
And now I wad hae liked to hae said mair.

But it can not be.
Stay"--she continued, stretched her head toward the gleam of light that
shot through the narrow slit which served for a window--"is he not
there?

--stand out o' the light, and let me look upon him ance mair. But the
darkness is in my ain een," she said, sinking back, after an earnest gaze
upon vacuity--"it's a' ended now.

'Pass breath, Come death!"
And, sinking back upon her couch of straw, she expired without a
groan.

III
A VISION OF ROB ROY[9]

When, however, I recollected the circumstances in which we formerly
met, I could not doubt that the billet was most probably designed
for him.

He had made a marked figure among those mysterious personages over whom
Diana seemed to exercise an influence, and from whom she experienced
an influence in her turn.

It was painful to think that the fate of a being so amiable was
involved in that of desperadoes of this man's description; yet it
seemed impossible to doubt it.

Of what use, however, could this person be to my father's affairs. I could
think only of one.

Rashleigh Osbaldistone had, at the instigation of Miss Vernon,
certainly found means to produce Mr.

Campbell when his presence was necessary to exculpate me from Morris's
accusation.

Was it not possible that her influence, in like manner, might prevail on
Campbell to produce Rashleigh? Speaking on this supposition, I requested
to know where my dangerous kinsman was, and when Mr.

Campbell had seen him. The answer was indirect.

"It's a kittle cast she has gien me to play; but yet it's fair play, and
I winna baulk her. Mr.

Osbaldistone, I dwell not very far from hence--my kinsman can show you the
way. Leave Mr. Owen to do the best he can in Glasgow--do you come and
see me in the glens, and it's like I may pleasure you, and stead
your father in his extremity.

I am but a poor man; but wit's better than wealth--and, cousin"
(turning from me to address Mr. Jarvie), "if ye daur venture sae muckle
as to eat a dish of Scotch collops, and a leg o' red-deer venison wi'
me, come ye wi' this Sassenach gentleman as far as Drymen or
Bucklivie, or the Clachan of Aberfoil, will be better than ony o'
them, and I'll hae somebody waiting to weise ye to the gate to the
place where I may be for the time.

What say ye, man? There's my thumb, I'll ne'er beguile thee."
"Na, na, Robin," said the cautious burgher, "I seldom like to leave
the Gorbals, I have nae freedom to gang among your wild hills,
Robin, and your kilted red-shanks--it disna become my place, man."

"The devil damn your place and you baith!"

reiterated Campbell. "The only drap o' gentle bluid that's in your body was
our great grand-uncle's that was justified at Dumbarton, and you set
yourself up to say ye wad degrogate frae your place to visit me!

Hark thee, man, I owe thee a day in harst--I'll pay up your thousan pund
Scots, plack and bawbee, gin ye'll be an honest fellow for anes,
and just daiker up the gate wi' this Sassenach."

"Hout awa' wi' your gentility," replied the Bailie: "carry your gentle
bluid to the Cross, and see what ye'll buy wi't.

But, if I were to come, wad ye really and soothfastly pay me the siller?"

"I swear to ye," said the Highlander, "upon the halidome of him that
sleeps beneath the gray stane at Inche-Cailleach."

"Say nae mair, Robin--say nae mair.

We'll see what may be dune. But ye maunna expect me to gang ower the
Hieland line--I'll gae beyond the line at no rate.

Ye maun meet me about Bucklivie or the Clachan of Aberfoil, and
dinna forget the needful."

"Nae fear--nae fear," said Campbell; "I'll be as true as the steel blade
that never failed its master.

But I must be budging, cousin, for the air o' Glasgow tolbooth is no that
ower salutary to be a Highlander's constitution."
"Troth," replied the merchant, "and if my duty were to be dune, ye
couldna change your atmosphere, as the minister ca's it, this ae
wee while.

Ochon, that I ad ever be concerned in aiding and abetting an escape
frae justice!

it will be a shame and disgrace to me and mine, and my father's
memory, forever."

"Hout tout, man! let that flee stick in the wa'," answered his kinsman;
"when the dirt's dry it will rub out.

Your father, honest man, could look over a friend's fault as weel
as anither."

"Ye may be right, Robin," replied the Bailie, after a moment's reflection;
"he was a considerate man the deacon; he ken'd we had a' our
frailties, and he lo'ed his friends.

Ye'll no hae forgotten him, Robin?" This question he put in a softened tone,
conveying as much at least of the ludicrous as the pathetic.

"Forgotten him!" replied his kinsman, "what suld ail me to forget him?--a
wapping weaver he was, and wrought my first pair o' hose. But come awa,
kinsman,
"Come fill up my cup, come fill up my can, Come saddle my horses,
and call up my man; Come open your gates, and let me gae free, I
daurna stay langer in bonny Dundee."

"Whisht, sir," said the magistrate, in an authoritative tone--"lilting
and singing sae near the latter end o' the Sabbath!

This house may hear ye sing anither tune yet. Aweel, we hae a' backslidings
to answer for--Stanchells, open the door."

The jailer obeyed, and we all sallied forth.

Stanchells looked with some surprize at the two strangers, wondering,
doubtless, how they came into these premises without his knowledge;
but Mr.

Jarvie's "Friends o' mine, Stanchells--friends o' mine," silenced all
disposition to inquiries. We now descended into the lower vestibule,
and hallooed more than once for Dougal, to which summons no answer
was returned; when Campbell observed, with a sardonic smile, "That
if Dougal was the lad he kent him, he would scarce wait to get
thanks for his ain share of the night's wark, but was in all
probability on the full trot to the pass of Ballmaha"--
"And left us--and, abune a', me mysell, locked up in the tolbooth
a' night!"

exclaimed the Bailie, in ire and perturbation. "Ca' for fore-hammers,
sledge-hammers, pinches, and coulters; send for Deacon Yettlin,
the smith, and let him ken that Bailie Jarvie's shut up in the
tolbooth by a Hieland blackguard, whom he'll hang up as high as
Haman"--
"When we catch him," said Campbell gravely; "but stay, the door is
surely not locked."

Indeed, on examination, we found that the door was not only left open, but
that Dougal in his retreat had, by carrying off the keys along
with him, taken care that no one should exercise his office of
porter in a hurry.

"He has glimmerings o' common sense now, that creature Dougal," said
Campbell; "he ken'd an open door might hae served me at a pinch."
We were by this time in the street.

"I tell you, Robin," said the magistrate, "in my puir mind, if ye
live the life ye do, ye suld hae ane o' your gillies doorkeeper in
every jail of Scotland, in case o' the warst."

"Ane o' my kinsman a bailie in ilka burgh will just do as weel, Cousin
Nicol. So, gude-nicht or gude-morning to ye; and forget not the Clachan
of Aberfoil."
And without waiting for an answer, he sprang to the other side of
the street, and was lost in darkness.

Immediately on his disappearance, we heard him give a low whistle of
peculiar modulation, which was instantly replied to.

"Hear to the Hieland deevils," said Mr. Jarvie; "they think themselves on
the skirts of Benlomond already, where they may gang whewing, whistling
about without minding Sunday or Saturday." Here he was interrupted by
some thing which fell with a heavy clash on the street before us. "Gude
guide us! what's this mair o't--Mattie, haud up the lantern--conscience!

if it isna the keys! Weel, that's just as well--they cost the
burgh siller, and there might hae been some clavers about the loss
o' them--O, an Bailie Grahame were to get word o' this nicht's job,
it wad be a sair hair in my neck!"

As we were still but a few steps from the tolbooth door, we carried back
these implements of office, and consigned them to the head jailer,
who, in lieu of the usual mode of making good his post by turning
the keys, was keeping sentry in the vestibule till the arrival of
some assistant whom he had summoned in order to replace Celtic
fugitive Dougal.

Having discharged this piece of duty to the burgh, and my road lying
the same way with the honest magistrate's, I profited by the light
of his lantern, and he by my arm, to find our way through the
streets, which, whatever they may now be, were then dark, uneven,
and ill-paved.

Age is easily propitiated by attentions from the young. The Bailie exprest
himself interested in me, and added, "That since I was nane o' that
play-acting and play-ganging generation, whom his saul hated, he
wad eat a reisted haddock, or a fresh herring, at breakfast wi' him
the morn, and meet my friend, Mr.

Owen, whom, by that time, he would place at liberty."
"My dear sir," said I, when I had accepted of the invitation with
thanks, "how could you possibly connect me with the stage?"

"I watna," replied Mr. Jarvie; "it was a bletherin' phrasin' chield
they ca' Fairservice that cam at e'en to get an order to send the
crier through the toun for ye at skreigh o' day the morn.

He tell't me whae ye were, and how ye were sent frae your father's house
because ye wadna be a dealer, and that ye michtna disgrace your
family wi' ganging on the stage.

Ane Hammorgaw, our precentor, brought him here, and said he was an
auld acquaintance; but I sent them baith awa' wi' a flae in their
lug for bringing me sic an errand on sic a night.

But I see he's a fule-creature a' thegither and clean mista'en about
ye.

I like ye, man," he continued; "I like a lad that will stand by his
friends in troubles--I ay did it mysell, and sae did the deacon
my father, rest and bless him!

But he suldna keep ower muckle company wi' Hielandmen and thae wild
cattle.

Can a man touch pitch and no be defiled?

--aye mind that. Nae doubt, the best and wisest may err--once, twice,
and thrice, have I backslidden, man, and dune three things this
night--my father wadna hae believed his een if he could hae looked
up and seen me do them."

He was by this time arrived at the door of his own dwelling. He paused,
however, on the threshold, and went on in a solemn tone of deep
contrition, "Firstly, I hae thought my ain thought on the Sabbath.

Secondly, I hae gien security for an Englishman--and, in the third
and last place, well a-day!

I hae let an ill-doer escape from the place of imprisonment. But there's
balm in Gilead, Mr.
Osbaldistone--Mattie, I can let mysell in--see Mr. Osbaldistone to
Luckie Flyter's, at the corner o' the wynd. Mr.

Osbaldistone"--in a whisper--"ye'll offer nae incivility to Mattie--she's
an honest man's daughter, and a near cousin o' the Laird o'
Limmerfield's."

IV
QUEEN ELIZABETH AND AMY ROBSART AT KENILWORTH[10]

It chanced upon that memorable morning, that one of the earliest
of the huntress train who appeared from her chamber in full array
for the chase was the princess for whom all these pleasures were
instituted, England's Maiden Queen.

I know not if it were by chance, or out of the befitting courtesy due to
a mistress by whom he was so much honored, that she had scarcely made
one step beyond the threshold of her chamber ere Leicester was by
her side; and proposed to her, until the preparations for the chase
had been completed, to view the pleasance, and the gardens which,
it connected with the castle-yard....

Horses in the meanwhile neighed, and champed the bits with impatience in
the base-court; hounds yelled in their couples, and yeomen, rangers,
and prickers lamented the exhaling of the dew, which would prevent
the scent from lying.

But Leicester had another chase in view:
or, to speak more justly toward him, had become engaged in it without
premeditation, as the high-spirited hunter which follows the cry
of the hounds that hath crost his path by accident.

The Queen--an accomplished and handsome woman, the pride of England,
the hope of France and Holland, and the dread of Spain--had probably
listened with more than usual favor to that mixture of romantic
gallantry with which she always loved to be addrest, and the earl
had, in vanity, in ambition, or in both, thrown in more and more
of that delicious ingredient, until his importunity became the
language of love itself.

He took her hand in a tight clasp, implying that whatever
happened they would face it together.

"Keep 'em there for the present," growled the man who seemed to be the
spokesman, and then he and the other man went away, leaving the children
in care of the three gypsy women.

Although apparently the women paid little attention to their young
prisoners, King and Midget could easily see that the eyes of their
jailers were ever alert, and watching their slightest movement. Had they
tried to cut and run, they would have been caught before they reached the
door. But no heed was paid when they whispered together, and so they were
able to hold a long conversation which was unheard, and even unnoticed by
the others.

"You know, Mops, what has happened?" whispered King.

"No, I don't; what do they want of us?"

"Why, we're kidnapped and held for ransom. Those men have probably gone
out now to send letters to Father about the ransom money."

"Oh, then Father'll pay it, and we'll get away."

"It isn't so easy as that. They have lots of fussing back and forth. We
may be here a long time. I say, Mops, you're a brick not to cry."

"I'm too mad to cry. The idea of their keeping us here like this! It's
outrageous! Why, King, by this time we would have been in Pelton. Just
think how worried Father and Mother must be!"

"Don't think about that, Mops, or you will cry sure. And I will, too!
Let's think how to get away."

But thinking was of little use, as there was no way to get away but to
run out at the door, and an attempt at that would be such certain failure
that it was not worth trying.

So the children sat there in dumb misery, silently watching the gypsy
women as they moved about preparing the mid-day meal.

Occasionally they spoke, and their manner and words were kindly, but King
and Midget could not bring themselves to respond in the same way.

"King," whispered Marjorie, "how far do you suppose we are from the
road?"

"Too far to run there, if that's what you mean. We'd be caught before we
started," was the whispered reply.

"That isn't what I mean; but how far are we?"

"Not very far, Midget; after we crossed the little bridge, the path to
this place was sort of parallel to the road."

"Well, King, I've got an idea. Don't say anything, and don't stop me."

With a stretch and a yawn as of great weariness, Marjorie slowly rose.
Immediately the three women started toward her. "You sit still!" said
one, sharply.

"Mayn't I walk about the room, if I promise not to go out the door?" said
Marjorie; "I'm so cramped sitting still."

"Move around if you want to," said the youngest of the women, a little
more gently; "but there's no use your trying to run away," and she wagged
her head ominously.

"Honest, I won't try to run away," and Marjorie's big, dark eyes looked
gravely at her captor.

The women said nothing more, and Marjorie wandered about the tent in an
apparently aimless manner. But after a time she came near to a small slit
in the side of the tent that served as a sort of window, and here she
paused and examined some beads that hung near by. Then choosing a moment
when the women were most attentive to their household duties, she put her
head out through the window and _yelled_. Now Marjorie Maynard's yell was
something that a Comanche Indian might be proud of. Blessed with strong,
healthy lungs, and being by nature fond of shouting, she possessed an
ability to scream which was really unusual.

As her blood-curdling shouts rent the air, the three women were so
stupefied that for a moment they could say or do nothing. This gave
Marjorie additional time, and she made the most of it. Her entire lung
power spent itself in successive shrieks more than a dozen times, before
she was finally dragged away from the window by the infuriated gypsy
women.

Marjorie turned upon them, unafraid.

"I told you I wouldn't try to run away," she said, "and neither I didn't.
But I had a right to yell, and if anybody heard me, I hope he'll come
right straight here! You are bad, wicked women!"

The child's righteous indignation had its effect on the women, and they
hesitated, not knowing exactly what to do with this little termagant.

And strange to say, Marjorie's ruse had succeeded.

For when the Maynards reached Pelton, and had found the inn where they
were to lunch, Pompton, the chauffeur, had expressed himself as unwilling
to sit there quietly and await the arrival of King and Marjorie.

"The poor children will be done out," he said to Mr. Maynard, "and by
your leave, sir, I'll just take the car, and run back a few rods and pick
them up."

"That's good of you, Pompton," said Mr. Maynard, appreciatively. "They
can't be far away now, but they'll be glad of a lift."

So Pompton turned the car about, and started back along the road he had
just come. To his surprise, he did not meet the children as soon as he
had expected, and as he continued his route without seeing them, he began
to be really alarmed. He passed the halfway sign, and went nearly to the
place where he had left them and had taken in the lame girl.

"There's something happened to them," he said to himself. "My word! I
knew those children ought not to be left to themselves! They're too full
of mischief. Like as not they've trailed off into the woods, and how can
I ever find them?"

Wondering what he had better do, Pompton turned the car around, and
slowly went back toward Pelton. At every crossroad or side path into
the woods he paused and shouted, but heard no response. When at last he
came near the place where the children had really turned off toward
the brook, he stopped and looked about. Seeing smoke issuing from among
the trees at a little distance, he thought, "That's a gypsy camp. Now
wouldn't it be just like those youngsters to trail in there? Anyway it's
the most likely place, and I'm going to have a look."

Leaving his car by the side of the road, Pompton struck into the
field, and soon came to the little bridge just beyond which the old
basket-weaver still sat.

"Have you seen anything of two children?" Pompton inquired, civilly.

"No," growled the man, looking up and frowning a little.

"Well, I'm fairly sure they came in here from the road about half an hour
ago. Perhaps you didn't notice them. I'll just take a look round." He
started in the direction of the camp, but the man called him back.

"I tell you no children have been near here," he said, in a voice
slightly less surly. "If they had, they'd have had to cross this bridge,
and I couldn't miss seeing them. I've been here two hours."

This seemed conclusive, and Pompton had no reason to think the man was
not telling the truth. But he was without doubt a gypsy, and Pompton
had small respect for the veracity of the gypsy. He waited a few moments,
pretending to be interested in the man's basketry, but really considering
whether to insist on going on to the camp hidden in the trees, or whether
to believe the man's statement.

And it was at this moment that Marjorie's shrieks rang out.

"Good heavens!" cried Pompton. "What is that?"

The basket-weaver neither heard nor answered him, for the shrieks
continued, and Pompton set off at a run in the direction whence they
came. He was not quite sure it was Marjorie's voice, but there was
certainly somebody in distress, and Pompton was of a valiant nature.

The smoke issuing above the trees was sufficient guide, and his flying
steps soon brought him to the encampment. Flinging open, indeed almost
tearing down the flapping door of the tent, he strode inside.

"What's the matter here?" he began, but he could get no further, for
with a glad cry the two Maynard children flung themselves into his
out-stretched arms.


CHAPTER VI

AT GRANDMA SHERWOOD'S


Aside from his threatening face, red with rage, and stormy with
indignation, Pompton's terrifying aspect was increased by the chauffeur's
costume which he wore. His goggles were pushed up on his brow, but his
eyes darted vengeance, and the three gypsy women were completely cowed at
the sight of him.

"You shall pay for this outrage!" he exclaimed; "and don't think you will
be let down easy! Kidnapping is a crime that is well punished, and your
punishment shall be to the full! I shall take these children away now,
but don't think you can escape! I will see to that! Where are your men
folks?"

Pompton was a large man, more than six feet high, and heavy in
proportion, and as he towered above the frightened gypsy women, they
could find no words to answer him.

"I'll find them for myself!" he exclaimed, and taking the children by
either hand, he hurried them out of the tent.

As Pompton had surmised, the men had run away to the woods, and hidden
themselves, for no trace of them could be seen. The old basket-maker,
too, had disappeared, and there was nothing to prevent their departure.

"Miss Marjorie, you're a wonder!" Pompton exclaimed, as they crossed the
little bridge and made for the road. "Now, how did you think to shout the
very lungs out of you like that?"

"It was the only thing to do, Pompton; they wouldn't let us run away, so
there was nothing to do but holler. My! but I'm glad you came!"

"Me, too!" cried King. "I felt awful to sit there and not do anything to
rescue Mops, but I couldn't think of a thing to do. I never thought of
yelling to beat the band!"

"Of course you didn't, King," said Marjorie. "A boy wouldn't do that.
And, anyway, you can't screech like I can."

"I didn't suppose anybody could, Miss Marjorie; I'm sure such screams
were never heard before, outside of Bedlam!"

"Well, we're safe now, anyway," cried Marjorie, skipping along gaily by
Pompton's side; "and here's our dear, blessed car! Oh, King, I'm so glad
we're safe!"

In a reaction of joy, Marjorie threw her arms around her brother's neck,
and the tears came to her eyes.

"There, there, Mops," and King patted her shoulders, while there was a
suggestion of emotion in his own voice; "it's all right now! Hop in, old
girl!"

"Yes, hop in, both of you," said Pompton, "and I'll get you back to
Pelton pretty quick, and then I'll set somebody on the track of those
villains. They'll not get away!"

The trip to Pelton took but a short time, for Pompton drove as fast as
the law allowed. But even so, they found a very much alarmed group
waiting for them on the veranda of the little inn.

"Where have you been?" exclaimed Mrs. Maynard, as Marjorie flung her arms
around her mother's neck, and burst into violent sobs. The realization
that she was safe brought a nervous reaction, and though she had been
plucky and brave in the hour of danger, she now collapsed with emotion.

"I'll tell you all about it," said King, grasping his father's hands.
"Midget was the bravest, pluckiest girl, and she saved both our lives."

"What!" cried Mr. Maynard, "have you been in danger?"

Marjorie stopped her sobs a moment, and lifted her head from her mother's
shoulder.

"It was P-Pompton saved us! I didn't do any saving,--I only s-screeched!"

"And you screeched good and plenty, Miss Marjorie," said the chauffeur,
"which was what saved the day; and, Mr. Maynard, by your leave, I'll take
the car a minute, to see if there's anybody in authority in this village.
I've a matter to put in their hands."

Without waiting for further explanation, Pompton whizzed away in the big
car to find the public officials, and set them on trail of the gypsies.
For though unsuccessful, their base attempt at kidnapping ought not to go
unpunished.

Kingdon told a straightforward story of all that had happened. Unlike
Marjorie, he was not overcome by emotion, and though somewhat excited
after the experience they had had, he gave a clear and direct account of
it all.

Mrs. Maynard held Marjorie closer as she heard of the danger they had
been in, and Mr. Maynard laid his hand on the shoulder of his tall son,
and heartily exonerated him from all blame in the matter.

"I suppose," King said, a little dubiously, "we ought not to have gone on
to the camp; but Mops,--I mean, we were both thirsty,--and we thought
it was a farmhouse."

"Of course you did," said Mrs. Maynard; "you did nothing wrong whatever."

"I did," said Midget, penitently; "after we passed the horrid basket-man,
King sort of thought he was a gypsy, and he thought we'd better turn
back, but I insisted on going on."

"Nothing of the sort!" exclaimed King. "Mops isn't a bit to blame! I did
think maybe the man was a gypsy,--and I ought to have insisted on going
back."

"Well, well," said Mr. Maynard, "don't strive so hard for the honor of
being to blame. It's all over now, and for the present let's forget it,
while we eat our luncheon, because it might interfere with our digestion.
We're truly thankful to have you back, and we're going to show our
thankfulness by not worrying or lamenting over what might have been."

Mr. Maynard's gaiety, though it was really a little forced, had a good
effect on the others. For, had he taken a melancholy attitude, they were
quite ready to follow suit.

As it was, they all cheered up, and with bright faces followed Mr.
Maynard to the dining-room. Kitty slipped her hand in Marjorie's as they
went along. She had said little while the story was being told, but as
Marjorie well knew, silence with Kitty was always indicative of deep
emotion.

The inn, though modern, was copied after a quaint old plan, and the
low-ceiled, raftered dining-room greatly pleased the children. There were
seats along the wall--something like church pews,--with long tables in
front of them. Mr. Maynard had ordered a dainty and satisfying luncheon,
and Marjorie and King soon found that thrilling experiences improve the
appetite.

Led by Mr. Maynard, the table talk was gay, light, and entertaining; and
though Mrs. Maynard could not quite play up to this key, yet she did her
best, and carefully hid the tremors that shook her as she looked at her
two older children.

"What became of Minnie Meyer?" asked Marjorie, suddenly, for in the
stress of circumstances she had almost forgotten the lame girl.

"I tried my best to persuade her to lunch with us," said Mrs. Maynard,
"but she would not do so. She was very shy and timid, and though very
glad to have the ride, she was unwilling to let us do more for her. She
had many errands to attend to, and she was sure of a ride home, so she
said we need not worry about her."

"I'm glad she had the ride," said Marjorie, thoughtfully; "and of course
it wasn't her fault that the morning turned out as it did."

"No, it wasn't," said King, "and it wasn't our fault either! It wasn't
anybody's fault; it just happened."

"And now it happens that it's all over," said his father, still
insistently cheerful, "and the incident is closed, and it's past history,
and we've all forgotten it. Have some more chicken, King?"

"Yes," said King, "these forgotten experiences make a fellow terribly
hungry!"

The subject of the morning's disaster was not again referred to, and Mr.
Maynard triumphantly succeeded in his determination to eliminate all
thought of it.

By two o'clock Pompton was at the door with the car, and they started
gaily off to continue their journey.

Mr. Maynard sat in front with the chauffeur, and if they indulged in some
whispered conversation it was not audible to those in the tonneau.

Midget and King themselves had quite recovered their good spirits, and
were ready to enjoy the ride through the country.

They went rather fast, as they had started a bit later than they
intended, but not too fast to enjoy the scenery or the interesting scenes
on either side.

On they went, through towns and villages, past woods and meadows, and up
and down moderately high hills. As they neared Morristown, where Grandma
Sherwood lived, the hills were higher and the views more picturesque.

It was not yet dusk when they reached Grandma Sherwood's house, and they
found the wide gate hospitably open for them. They swung into the
driveway, and in another moment they saw Grandma and Uncle Steve on the
veranda, waiting to welcome them.

The impetuous Maynard children tumbled out of the car all at once, and
fairly swarmed upon their relatives.

"Which is which?" cried Uncle Steve. "Kitty has grown as big as Marjorie
was,--and Marjorie has grown as big as King was,--and King has grown as
big as,--as a house!"

"And me growed!" cried Rosamond, not wanting to be left out of the
comparison.

"You're the biggest of all!" exclaimed Uncle Steve, catching the baby up
and seating her on his shoulder, so she could look down on all the
others.

"Yes, me biggest of all," she declared, contentedly, as she wound her fat
arms around Uncle Steve's neck; "now me go see schickens!"

"Not just now, Rosy Posy," said her mother, "let's all go in the house
and see what we can find there."

Easily diverted, the baby went contentedly with her mother, but the
mention of chickens had roused in the other children a desire to see the
farmyard pets, and King said: "Come on, Mops and Kit, let's us go and see
the chickens; come on, Uncle Steve."

"Eliza first!" cried Marjorie, remembering the old cook's friendliness
toward them all; "come on!"

Following Midget's lead, the trio went tearing through the house to the
kitchen.

Uncle Steve paused in the library where the others were, and said to his
sister, "They're the same Maynard children, Helen, if they are a year
older. We enjoyed Marjorie last summer, and I know we'll enjoy Kitty this
year,--but how you can live with them all at once I can't understand!"

"It's habit," said Mrs. Maynard, smiling, "you know, Steve, you can get
used to 'most anything."

"It seems to agree with you, Helen, at any rate," said Grandma Sherwood,
looking at her daughter's pink cheeks and bright eyes.

Meanwhile, the younger Maynards had reached the kitchen, and were dancing
round Eliza, with shouts of glee.

"Are you glad to see me again, Eliza?" asked Marjorie, flinging herself
into the arms of the stout Irishwoman.

"Glad is it, Miss Midget? Faith, I'm thot glad I kin hardly see ye fer
gladness! Ye've grow'd,--but I do say not so much as I expicted! But
Masther King, now he's as high as the church shpire! And as fer Miss
Kitty,--arrah, but she's the dumplin' darlin'! Stan' out there now, Miss
Kitty, an' let me look at yez! Och! but yer the foine gurrul! An' it's ye
thot's comin' to spend the summer. My! but the toimes we'll be havin'!"

It was a custom of the Maynards for one of the children to spend each
summer at Grandma Sherwood's, and as Marjorie had been there last year,
it was now Kitty's turn.

"Yes, I'm coming, Eliza," she said, in her sedate way, "but I'm not going
to stay now, you know; we're all going on a tour. But I'll come back here
the first of June, and stay a long time."

"Any cookies, Eliza?" asked King, apropos of nothing.

"Cookies, is it? There do be, indade! But if yez be afther eatin' thim
now, ye'll shpoil yer supper,--thot ye will! Here's one a piece to ye,
and now run away, and lave me do me worruk. Be off with yez!"

After accepting a cookie apiece, the children bounced out the back door
and down into the garden in search of Carter.

"We've come, Carter; we've come!" cried Marjorie, flinging open a door of
the green-house in which Carter was busy potting some plants.

"You don't say so, Miss Mischief! Well, I'm right down glad to see you!
And is this Master King? And Miss Kitty? Well, you all grow like weeds
after a rain, but I'll warrant you're as full of mischief as ever!"

"Kitty isn't mischievous," said Marjorie, who was proud of the sedate
member of the family.

"And it's Miss Kitty who's to spend the summer, isn't it? Well, then, I
won't have the times I had last year, pulling children up from down the
well,--and picking them up with broken ankles after they slid down the
roof! Nothing of that sort, eh?" Carter's eyes twinkled as he looked
at Marjorie, who burst into laughter at reminiscences.

"No, nothing of that sort, Carter; but we're all going to be here for a
few days, and we're going to give you the time of your life. Will you
take us out rowing in the boat?"

"I'll go along with you to make sure you don't drown yourself; but I
think you're getting big enough to do your own rowing. I'm not as young
as I was, Miss Midget, and I'm chock-full of rheumatism."

"Oh, we'd just as lieve row, Carter; King's fine at it, and I can row
pretty well myself."

But Kitty said: "I'm sorry you have rheumatism, Carter; I'll ask Mother
to give you something for it."

"Now that's kind and thoughtful of you, Miss Kitty. Miss Mischief, here,
would never think of that!" But, as Carter spoke, his eyes rested
lovingly on Marjorie's merry face.

"That's so, Carter," she said, a little penitently, "but do you know, I
think if you did take us rowing, it would limber up your arms so you
wouldn't have rheumatism!"

"Maybe that's so, Miss Mischief,--maybe that's so. Anyway, I'll try both
plans, and perhaps it'll help some. But I hear Eliza calling you, so
you'd all better skip back to the house. It's nearly supper time."

With a series of wild whoops, which were supposed to be indicative of the
general joy of living, the three Maynards joined hands, with Kitty in the
middle, and raced madly back to the house.

They all tried to squeeze through the back door at once, which proceeding
resulted in an athletic scrimmage, and a final burst of kicking humanity
into Eliza's kitchen.

"Howly saints! but ye're the noisy bunch!" was Eliza's greeting, and then
she bade them hurry upstairs and tidy themselves for supper.


CHAPTER VII

AN EARLY ESCAPADE


Marjorie and Kitty occupied the room that had been Marjorie's the summer
before. Another little white bed had been put up, and as the room was
large, the girls were in no way crowded.

Kitty admired the beautiful room, but in her quiet way, by no means
making such demonstrations of delight as Marjorie had when she first saw
it. Also Kitty felt a sort of possession, as she would return later and
occupy the room for the whole summer.

"Lots of these things on the shelf, Midget, I shall have taken away," she
said, as the girls were preparing for bed that same night; "for they're
your things, and I don't care about them, and I want to make room for my
own."

"All right, Kit, but don't bother about them now. When you come back in
June, put them all in a big box and have them put up in the attic until I
come again. I only hope you'll have as good a time here as I had last
summer. Molly Moss and Stella Martin are nearer my age than yours, but
you'll like them, I know."

"Oh, I know Molly, but I don't remember Stella."

"You'll prob'ly like Stella best, though, 'cause she's so quiet and
sensible like you. Molly's a scalawag, like me."

"All right," said Kitty, sleepily, for she was too tired to discuss the
neighbors, and very soon the two girls were sound asleep.

It was very early when Marjorie awoke the next morning. Indeed, the sun
had not yet risen, but the coming of this event had cast rosy shadows
before. The east was cloudily bright, where the golden beams were trying
to break through the lingering shades of night, and the scattering clouds
were masses of pink and silver.

When Marjorie opened her eyes, she was so very wide awake that she knew
she should not go to sleep again, and indeed had no desire to. The days
at Grandma's would be few and short enough anyway, and she meant to
improve every shining minute of them, and so concluded to begin before
the minutes had really begun to shine.

She hopped out of bed, and, not to wake Kitty, went very softly to the
window, and looked out. Across the two wide lawns she could see dimly the
outlines of Stella's house, half-hidden by trees, and beyond that she
could see the chimneys and gables of Molly's house. She watched the sun
poking the tip edge of his circumference above a distant hill, and the
bright rays that darted toward her made her eyes dance with sympathetic
joy.

"Kitty," she whispered, not wanting to wake her sister, yet wishing she
had somebody to share with her the effect of the beautiful sunrise.

"You needn't speak so softly, I'm wide awake," responded Kitty, in her
matter-of-fact way; "what do you want?"

"I want you, you goosey! Hop out of bed, and come and see this
gorgiferous sunrise!"

Slowly and carefully, as she did everything, Kitty folded back the
bedcovers, drew on a pair of bedroom slippers, and then put on a kimona
over her frilled nightgown, adjusting it in place and tying its blue
ribbon.

"Gracious, Kit! What an old fuss you are! The sun will be up and over and
setting before you get here!"

"I'd just as lieve see a sunset as a sunrise, anyway," declared Kitty, as
she walked leisurely across the room, just in time to see the great red
gold disc tear its lower edge loose from the hill with what seemed almost
to be a leap up in the air.

But once at the window, she was as enthusiastic in her enjoyment of the
breaking day as Marjorie, though not quite so demonstrative.

"Put on a kimona, Midget," she said at last; "you'll catch cold flying
around in your night dress."

"Kit," said her sister, unheeding the admonition, and sitting down on the
edge of her bed as she talked, "I've the most splendiferous plan!"

"So've I," said Kitty; "mine is to go back to bed and sleep till
breakfast time."

"Pooh! you old Armadillo! Mine's nothing like that."

"Why am I an Armadillo?" asked Kitty, greatly interested to know.

"Because you want to sleep so much."

"That isn't an Armadillo, that's an Anaconda."

"Well, you're it anyway; and it ought to be Armadillo, because it rhymes
with pillow! But now, you just listen to my plan. Seem's if I just
couldn't wait any longer to see Molly and Stella, and I'm going to dress
right, straight, bang, quick! and go over there. Come on."

"They won't be awake."

"Of course they won't; that's the fun of it! We'll throw little pebbles
up at their windows, and wake them up, and make them come out."

"Well, all right, I will." Kitty reached this decision after a few
moments' consideration, as Marjorie felt sure she would. Kitty usually
agreed to her older sister's plans, but she made up her mind slowly,
while Midget always reached her conclusions with a hop, skip, and jump.

So the girls began to dress, and in a very few minutes they were
buttoning each other's frocks and tying each other's hair ribbons.

Marjorie had invented a way by which they could tie each other's hair
ribbons at the same time, but as it oftenest resulted in pulled hair and
badly made bows, it was not much of a time-saver after all.

"But I do think, Kit," she said, "being in such haste this morning, we
might manage to button each other's dresses at the same time. Stand back
to back and let's try."

The trial was a decided failure, and resulted only in a frolic, after
which the buttoning was done separately and successfully.

"And anyway, we're not in such a hurry," commented Kitty, "and don't ever
try that stunt again, Mopsy. My arms are nearly twisted off!"

"All right, Kit, I won't. Now are you ready? Come on; don't make any
noise; we don't want to wake anybody."

They tiptoed downstairs, and as a greater precaution against waking the
sleeping grownups, they went through the kitchen, and out at the back
door, which they easily unbolted from the inside.

"We'll have to leave this door unfastened," said Marjorie. "I hope no
burglars will get in."

"Of course they won't; burglars never come around after sunrise. Oh,
isn't it lovely to smell the fresh morningness!"

Kitty stood still, and sniffed the clear, crisp air, while the
exhilarating effects of the atmosphere caused Marjorie to dance and
prance in circles round her quieter sister.

"When you've sniffed enough, come on, Kit," she said, dancing away toward
Stella's house.

Kitty came on, and soon they stood on the greensward directly beneath
Stella's bedroom window.

The morning was very still, and the Martins' house looked forbidding,
with its silent, closed-up air. It was not yet half-past five, and not
even the servants were stirring.

Marjorie's courage failed her. "I guess we won't try Stella first," she
whispered to Kitty. "Stella's so scary. Once I just said '_boo_' at
her, and she cried like fury. If we fire pebbles at her window, like as
not she'll think it's a burglar and have yelling hysterics."

"Burglars don't throw pebbles to wake people up."

"Well, Stella's just as likely to think they do. You never can tell what
Stella's going to think, or what she's going to do, either. Anyway, let's
go to Molly's first; you can't scare her."

"All right," agreed Kitty, and hand in hand the two girls trudged on to
the next house.

"I believe I'll get up every morning at five o'clock," said Marjorie; "it
is so fresh and green and wet."

"Yes, it's awful wet," said Kitty, looking at her shoes; "but it's a
delicious kind of a wetness. Dew is awful different from rain."

"Yes, isn't it; dew makes you think of fairies and,--"

"And spiders," said Kitty, kicking at one of the spider webs with which
the grass was dotted.

"Well, I think spiders are sort of fairies," said Marjorie, looking
lovingly at the glistening webs; "They must be to weave such silky,
spangly stuff."

"They weave it for the fairies, Mops. They weave it in the night; and
then about sunrise, the fairies come and gather up the silky, spangly
stuff, and take it away to make their dresses out of it. See, they're
most all gone now."

"Pooh! the sun dried them up."

"No, he didn't; the fairies came and took them away. Of course you can't
see the fairies, and that's why people think the sun dries up the webs."
Kitty spoke as one with authority, and into her eyes came the faraway
look that always appeared when her imagination was running riot. For a
really practical child, Kitty had a great deal of imagination, but the
two traits never conflicted.

"This is Molly's window," said Marjorie, dismissing the question of
fairies as they reached Mr. Moss's house.

"Why don't you whistle or call her?" suggested Kitty.

"No, that might wake up her father and mother. And besides, throwing
pebbles is lots more fun. Let's get a handful from the drive. Get both
hands full."

In a moment four little hands were filled with pebbles.

"Wait a minute," said thoughtful Kitty; "let's pick out the biggest ones
and throw them away. Some of these big stones might break a window."

So the girls sat down on the front steps and carefully assorted their
pebbles until at last they had their hands filled with only the tiniest
stones.

"Now the thing is to throw straight," said Marjorie.

"You throw first," said Kitty, "and then I'll follow."

Like a flash, Marjorie's right hand full of pebbles clattered against
Molly's window, and was swiftly followed by a second shower from Kitty's
right hand. Then they shifted the pebbles in their left hand to their
right, and, swish! these pebbles followed the others.

But though the Maynard children were quick, Molly Moss was quicker. At
the first pebbles she flew out of bed and flung up the window, raising
the sash just in time to get the second lot distributed over her own face
and person.

"Oh, Molly, have we hurt you?" called out Kitty, who realized first what
they had done.

"No, not a bit! I knew the minute I heard the pebbles it was you girls.
I'm awful glad to see you! Shall I get dressed and come out?"

"Yes, do!" cried Marjorie, who was hopping up and down on one foot in her
excitement. "Will it take you long to dress?"

"No, indeed; I'll be down in a jiffy. Just you wait a minute."

It might have been more than a minute, but it wasn't much more, when the
girls heard a rustling above them, and looked up to see Molly, fully
dressed, climbing out of the window.

"Oh, Molly, you'll break your neck!" cried Kitty, for Molly was already
descending by a rose trellis that was amply strong enough for a climbing
rose, but which swayed and wabbled frightfully tinder the weight of a
climbing girl.

However, Molly didn't weigh very much, and she had the scrambling ability
of a cat, so in a few seconds she was down on the ground, and embracing
the two Maynard girls both at once.

"You're perfect ducks to come over here so early! How did you get away?"

"Slid out the back door," said Marjorie; "isn't it larky to be around so
early in the morning?"

"Perfectly fine! How long are you girls going to stay?"

"Not quite a week, I think," said Kitty, and Marjorie added, "So we want
to cram all the fun we can into these few days, and so we thought we'd
begin early."

"All right," said Molly, taking her literally, "let's begin right now."

"Oh, we can't do anything now," said Marjorie, "that is, nothing in
p'ticular."

"Pooh! yes, we can! It's only about half-past five, and we don't have
breakfast till eight, do you?"

"Yes, Grandma has it at eight," said Marjorie, "but, gracious, I'll be
starved to death by that time! I'm so hungry now I don't know what to
do!"

"I'll tell you what," began Kitty, and upon her face there dawned that
rapt expression, which always appeared when she was about to propose
something ingenious.

"What?" cried Midget and Molly, both at once.

"Why," said Kitty, impressed with the greatness of her own idea, "let's
have a picnic!"

"Picnic!" cried Marjorie, "before breakfast! At half-past five in the
morning! Kit, you're crazy!"

"No, I'm not crazy," said Kitty, seriously, and Molly broke in, "Of
course she isn't! It's a grand idea!"

"But you can't have a picnic without things to eat," objected Marjorie.

"We'll have things to eat," declared Kitty, calmly.

"Where'll you get 'em?"

"Kitchen."

"Kit, you're a genius! Prob'ly Eliza's pantry is just chock-a-block with
good things! And as I know they were made for us, we may as well eat
some now."

Then Molly had an inspiration. "I'll tell you what," she cried, "let's go
on the river! in the boat!"


CHAPTER VIII

AN EXCITING PICNIC


Molly's suggestion was so dazzling that Midget and Kitty were struck dumb
for a moment. Then Marjorie said, "No, Grandma won't let us girls go on
the river alone, and Carter isn't up yet."

"Let's throw pebbles and wake him up," said Molly.

"No," said Kitty, "it's too bad to wake him up early, because he needs
his rest. He has to work hard all day, and he has the rheumatism besides.
But I'll tell you what," and again Kitty's face glowed with a great idea;
"let's go and throw pebbles at King's window, and make him take us out
rowing."

"Kitty, getting up early in the morning agrees with your brain!" declared
Marjorie. "We'll do just that,--and while King is dressing, we'll pack
a basket of things to eat. Oh, gorgeous! Come on, girls!"

And clasping hands, the three ran away toward Grandma Sherwood's house.

"What about Stella?" asked Marjorie, as they passed her house.

"Oh, don't try to get her," said Molly; "she'd be scared to death if you
pebbled her, and her mother and father would think the house was on fire
or something."

So Stella was not included in the picnic, and the three conspirators ran
on, and never paused until they were beneath King's window.

"You don't need a whole handful for him," advised Kitty. "I expect he's
awake, anyway, and one pebble will make him come to the window. See, the
window's open anyway; we can just fling a pebble in."

"If we can aim straight enough," said Molly.

After one or two vain attempts, Kitty sent a good-sized pebble straight
through the open window, and it landed on the floor straight beside
King's bed.

In another moment a tousled head and a pair of shoulders, humped into a
bathrobe, appeared at the window.

Seeing the girls, King's face broke into a broad grin. "Well, you do beat
all!" he cried. "Have you been out all night?"

"No," called Kitty, "we're just playing around in the morning. It's
perfectly lovely out, King, and we're going to have a picnic, rowing on
the river. But we can't go unless you'll come too, so bob into your
clothes and come, won't you?"

"You bet I will! Isn't anybody up?"

"Nobody but us," said Marjorie; "so don't make any noise. Slide down the
back stairs and through the kitchen."

"Got any feed for your picnic?"

"We're going to get some. You hurry down and we'll be ready."

"All right," and the tousled head disappeared. The girls went noiselessly
into the kitchen and on through into the pantry. As Marjorie had
surmised, the pantry shelves were well-stocked, and they found doughnuts,
little pies, and cold chicken in abundance. Kitty found a goodly-sized
basket, and remembering King's appetite, they packed it well.

"Here's some hard-boiled eggs," cried Marjorie, "let's take these."

"I 'spect Eliza wants them for salad or something," said Kitty, "but she
can boil more. We must take some milk, Midget."

"Yes, here's a big pitcher full. Let's put it in a tin pail to carry it.
The milkman will be here in time for breakfast."

And so when King came softly downstairs, with his shoes in his hand, he
found the luncheon basket packed, and the feminine portion of the picnic
all ready to start.

"Good work!" he said, approvingly, as he lifted the basket, greatly
pleased with its size and weight.

Molly carried the milk pail, Kitty some glasses and Marjorie some napkins
and forks, for she was of a housewifely nature, and liked dainty
appointments.

"Maybe we ought to leave a note or something," said Kitty, as they
started.

"Saying we've eloped," said King, grinning.

"Don't let's bother," said Marjorie; "they'll know we're just out playing
somewhere, and we'll be back by breakfast time,--it isn't six o'clock
yet."

"You won't want any breakfast after all this stuff," said Molly, whose
appetite was not as robust as the Maynards'.

"'Deed we will!" declared King; "this little snack is all right for six
o'clock, but I have an engagement at eight in the dining-room."

They trudged along to the boathouse, and, as they might have expected,
found it locked.

"I'll get it," said Molly; "I'm the swiftest runner, and I know where the
key hangs in Carter's workshop."

King watched Molly admiringly as she flew across the grass, her long,
thin, black legs flinging out behind her with incredible quickness.

"Jingo, she can run!" he exclaimed, and indeed it seemed but a moment
before Molly flashed back again with the key.

The quartet was soon in the boat, and with a few strokes, King pulled out
into mid-stream.

"Let's have the picnic first," he said, shipping his oars. "I can't row
when I'm so hungry. This morning air gives a fellow an appetite."

"It does so," agreed Marjorie; "and we girls have been out 'most an hour.
I'm 'bout starved."

So they held a very merry picnic breakfast, while the boat drifted along
with the current, and the cold chicken and biscuits rapidly disappeared.

"Now, where do you girls want to go?" asked King, as, the last crumb
finished, Kitty carefully packed the napkins and glasses back in the
basket.

"Oh, let's go to Blossom Banks," said Marjorie, "that is, if there's time
enough."

"We'll go down that way, anyhow," said King, "and if it gets late we'll
come back before we get there. Anybody got a watch?"

Nobody had, but all agreed they wouldn't stay out very long, so on they
went, propelled by King's long, strong strokes down toward Blossom Banks.

It was a delightful sensation, because it was such a novel one. To row on
the river at six o'clock in the morning was a very different proposition
from rowing later in the day. Molly and Marjorie sat together in the
stern, and Kitty lay curled up in the bow, with her hands behind her
head, dreamily gazing into the morning sky.

"Do you remember, Molly," said Midget, "how we went out with Carter one
day, and he scolded us so because we bobbed about and paddled our hands
in the water?"

"Yes, I remember," and Molly laughed at the recollection. "Let's dabble
our hands now. May we, King?"

"Sure! I guess I can keep this boat right side up if you girls do trail
your hands in the water."

And so the two merry maidens dabbled their hands in the water, and
growing frolicsome, shook a spray over each other, and even flirted drops
into King's face. The boy laughed good-naturedly, and retaliated by
splashing a few drops on them with the tip end of his oar.

King was fond of rowing, and was clever at it, and being a large,
strong boy, it tired him not at all. Moreover, the boat was a light,
round-bottomed affair that rowed easily, and was not at all hard to
manage.

King's foolery roused the spirit of mischief in the two girls, and faster
and faster flew the drops of water from one to another of the
merrymakers.

"No fair splashing!" cried King. "Just a spray of drops goes."

"All right," agreed Marjorie, who was also a stickler for fair play, and
though she dashed the water rapidly, she sent merely a flying spray, and
not a drenching handful. But Molly was not so punctilious. She hadn't the
same instinct of fairness that the Maynards had, and half intentionally,
half by accident, she flung a handful of water straight in King's face.

This almost blinded the boy, and for a moment he lost control of his oar.
An involuntary move on his part, due to the shock of the water in his
face, sent the blade of one oar down deep, and as he tried to retrieve
it, it splashed a whole wave all over Molly.

But Molly thought King intended to do this, and that it was merely part
of the game, so with one of her lightning-like movements, she grasped
the blade of the oar in retaliation. The oar being farther away than she
thought, and rapidly receding, caused her to lean far over the boat, and
in his effort to get his oar again in position, King, too, leaned over
the side.

The result was exactly what might have been expected. The narrow,
clinker-built boat capsized, and in a moment the four children were
struggling in the water.

Even as the boat went over, King realized what had happened, and
realized, too, that he was responsible for the safety of the three girls.
With fine presence of mind he threw his arm over the keel of the upturned
boat and shouted, "It's all right, girls! Just hang on to the boat this
way, and you won't go down."

Marjorie and Molly understood at once, and did exactly as King told them.
They were terribly frightened, and were almost strangled, but they
realized the emergency, and struggled to get their arms up over the boat
in the manner King showed them.

But Kitty did not so quickly respond to orders. She had not been paying
any attention to the merry war going on in the stern of the boat, and
when she was suddenly thrown out into the water, she could not at first
collect her scattered senses. King's words seemed to convey no meaning to
her, and to his horror, the boy saw his sister sink down under the water.

"Hang on like fury, you two girls!" he shouted to Marjorie and Molly, and
then he made a dive for Kitty.

King was a good swimmer, but, hampered by his clothing, and frightened
terribly by Kitty's disappearance, he could not do himself justice. But
he caught hold of Kitty's dress, and by good fortune both rose to the
surface. King grabbed for the boat, but it slipped away from him, and
the pair went down again.

At this Marjorie screamed. She had been trying to be brave, yet the sight
of her brother and sister being, as she feared, drowned, was too much
for her.

"Hush up, Marjorie!" cried Molly. "You just keep still and hang on! whom,
from earliest youth, ever I believed in as full of truth and
self-sacrifice this was amongst the strongest pledges for _thy_
side, that never once--no, not for a moment of weakness--didst thou
revel in the vision of coronets and honors from man.

Coronets for thee! Oh no! Honors, if they come when all is over, are for
those that share thy blood.
Daughter of Domremy, when the gratitude of thy king shall awaken, thou
wilt be sleeping the sleep of the dead. Call her, King of France, but
she will not hear thee! Cite her by thy apparitors to come and receive
a robe of honor, but she will be found _en contumace_.

When the thunders of universal France, as even yet may happen, shall
proclaim the grandeur of the poor shepherd-girl that gave up all
for her country--thy ear, young shepherd-girl, will have been deaf
for five centuries.

To suffer and to do, that was thy portion in this life; to _do_--never
for thyself, always for others; to _suffer_--never in the persons of
generous champions, always in thy own: that was thy destiny; and
not for a moment was it hidden from thyself.

"Life," thou saidst, "is short, and the sleep which is in the grave is long.
Let me use that life, so transitory, for the glory of those heavenly
dreams destined to comfort the sleep which is so long."

This poor creature--pure from every suspicion of even a visionary
self-interest, even as she was pure in senses more obvious--never
once did this holy child, as regarded herself, relax from her belief
in the darkness that was traveling to meet her.

She might not prefigure the very manner of her death; she saw not in vision,
perhaps, the aerial altitude of the fiery scaffold, the spectators without
end on every road pouring into Rouen as to a coronation, the surging
smoke, the volleying flames, the hostile faces all around, the
pitying eye that lurked but here and there until nature and
imperishable truth broke loose from artificial restraints; these
might not be apparent through the mists of the hurrying future.

But the voice that called her to death, _that_ she heard forever.

Great was the throne of France even in those days, and great was he that
sat upon it; but well Joanna knew that not the throne, nor he that sat
upon it, was for _her_; but, on the contrary, that she was for _them_;
not she by them, but they by her, should rise from the dust. Gorgeous
were the lilies of France, and for centuries had the privilege to
spread their beauty over land and sea, until, in another century,
the wrath of God and man combined to wither them; but well Joanna
knew, early at Domremy she had read that bitter truth, that the
lilies of France would decorate no garland for her.

Flower nor bud, bell nor blossom, would ever bloom for her.

On the Wednesday after Trinity Sunday in 1431, being then about
nineteen years of age, the Maid of Arc underwent her martyrdom.

She was conducted before midday, guarded by eight hundred spearmen, to a
platform of prodigious height, constructed of wood billets supported
by hollow spaces in every direction, for the creation of
air-currents.

"The pile struck terror," says M. Michelet, "by its height." ...
There would be a certainty of calumny arising against her--some people
would impute to her a willingness to recant. No innocence could
escape that.
Now, had she really testified this willingness on the scaffold, it would
have argued nothing at all but the weakness of a genial nature
shrinking from the instant approach of torment.

And those will often pity that weakness most, who in their own persons
would yield to it least. Meantime there never was a calumny uttered
that drew less support from the recorded circumstances.

It rests upon no positive testimony, and it has a weight of contradicting
testimony to stem....
What else but her meek, saintly demeanor won, from the enemies that
till now had believed her a witch, tears of rapturous admiration?

"Ten thousand men," says M. Michelet himself, "ten thousand men wept; and
of these ten thousand the majority were political enemies knitted
together by cords of superstition."

What else was it but her constancy, united with her angelic gentleness,
that drove the fanatic English soldier--who had sworn to throw a
fagot on her scaffold as his tribute of abhorrence, that did so,
that fulfilled his vow--suddenly to turn away a penitent for life,
saying everywhere that he had seen a dove rising upon wings to
heaven from the ashes where she had stood?

What else drove the executioner to kneel at every shrine for pardon
to his share in the tragedy?

And if all this were insufficient, then I cite the closing act of her
life as valid on her behalf, were all other testimonies against her. The
executioner had been directed to apply his torch from below. He did so.
The fiery smoke rose up in billowy columns.

A Dominican monk was then standing almost at her side.

Wrapt up in his sublime office, he saw not the danger, but still
persisted in his prayers.

Even then when the last enemy was racing up the fiery stairs to seize
her, even at that moment did this noblest of girls think only for
him, the one friend that would not forsake her, and not for herself;
bidding him with her last breath to care for his own preservation,
but to leave her to God.

That girl, whose latest breath ascended in this sublime expression
of self-oblivion, did not utter the word recant either with her
lips or in her heart.

No, she did not, tho one should rise from the dead to swear it.

III

CHARLES LAMB[28]

It sounds paradoxical, but is not so in a bad sense, to say that in
every literature of large compass some authors will be found to
rest much of the interest which surrounds them on their essential
non-popularity.

They are good for the very reason that they are not in conformity to
the current taste.

They interest because to the world they are not interesting.

They attract by means of their repulsion.
Not as tho it could separately furnish a reason for loving a book,
that the majority of men had found it repulsive.

_Prima facie_, it must suggest some presumption _against_ a book
that it has failed to gain public attention.

To have roused hostility indeed, to have kindled a feud against its own
principles or its temper, may happen to be a good sign. That argues
power. Hatred may be promising.

The deepest revolutions of minds sometimes begin in hatred. But simply
to have left a reader unimprest is in itself a neutral result,
from which the inference is doubtful.

Yet even that, even simple failure to impress, may happen at times to be
a result from positive powers in a writer, from special originalities
such as rarely reflect themselves in the mirror of the ordinary
understanding.

It seems little to be perceived, how much the great Scriptural idea of
the worldly and the unworldly is found to emerge in literature as well
as in life.

In reality, the very same combinations of moral qualities, infinitely varied,
which compose the harsh physiognomy of what we call worldliness in the
living groups of life, must unavoidably present themselves in books.

A library divides into sections of worldly and unworldly, even as a crowd
of men divides into that same majority and minority. The world has an
instinct for recognizing its own, and recoils from certain qualities
when exemplified in books with the same disgust or defective sympathy
as would have governed it in real life.

From qualities, for instance, of childlike simplicity, of shy profundity,
or of inspired self-communion, the world does and must turn away its face
toward grosser, bolder, more determined, or more intelligible expressions
of character and intellect; and not otherwise in literature, nor
at all less in literature, than it does in the realities of life.

Charles Lamb, if any ever was, is amongst the class here contemplated; he,
if any ever has, ranks amongst writers whose works are destined to be
forever unpopular, and yet forever interesting; interesting moreover by
means of those very qualities which guarantee their non-popularity.

The same qualities which will be found forbidding to the worldly and the
thoughtless, which will be found insipid to many even amongst robust and
powerful minds, are exactly those which will continue to command
a select audience in every generation.

The prose essays, under the signature of "Elia," form the most delightful
section amongst Lamb's works. They traverse a peculiar field of observation,
sequestered from general interest; and they are composed in a
spirit too delicate and unobtrusive to catch the ear of the noisy
crowd, clamoring for strong sensations.

But this retiring delicacy itself, the pensiveness checkered by gleams of
the fanciful, and the humor that is touched with cross-lights of pathos,
together with the picturesque quaintness of the objects casually
described, whether men, or things, or usages; and in the rear of
all this, the constant recurrence to ancient recollections and to
decaying forms of household life, as things retiring before the
tumult of new and revolutionary generations; these traits in
combination communicate to the papers a grace and strength of
originality which nothing in any literature approaches, whether for
degree or kind of excellence, except the most felicitous papers of
Addison, such as those on Sir Roger de Coverley, and some others
in the same vein of composition.

They resemble Addison's papers also in the diction, which is natural and
idiomatic even to carelessness. They are equally faithful to the truth
of nature; and in this only they differ remarkably--that the sketches of
Elia reflect the stamp and impress of the writer's own character,
whereas in all those of Addison the personal peculiarities of the
delineator (tho known to the reader from the beginning through the
account of the club) are nearly quiescent.

Now and then they are recalled into a momentary notice, but they do not
act, or at all modify his pictures of Sir Roger or Will Wimble.

They are amiably eccentric; but the Spectator in describing them, takes
the station of an ordinary observer.

Everywhere, indeed, in the writings of Lamb, and not merely in his
"Elia," the character of the writer cooperates in an undercurrent to make
the effect of the thing written. To understand in the fullest sense either
the gaiety or the tenderness of a particular passage, you must have some
insight into the peculiar bias of the writer's mind, whether native
and original, or imprest gradually by the accidents of situation;
whether simply developed out of predispositions by the action of
life, or violently scorched into the constitution by some fierce
fever of calamity.

There is in modern literature a whole class of writers, tho not a large
one, standing within the same category; some marked originality of
character in the writer becomes a coefficient with what he says to a
common result; you must sympathize with this personality in the
author before you can appreciate the most significant parts of his
views.

In most books the writer figures as a mere abstraction, without sex or
age or local station, whom the reader banishes from his thoughts. What
is written seems to proceed from a blank intellect, not from a man
clothed with fleshly peculiarities and differences.

These peculiarities and differences neither do, nor (generally speaking)
could intermingle with the texture of the thoughts so as to modify
their force or their direction.

In such books--and they form the vast majority--there is nothing
to be found or to be looked for beyond the direct objective.

(_Sit venia verbo!_)
But in a small section of books, the objective in the thought becomes
confluent with the subjective in the thinker--the two forces unite
for a joint product; and fully to enjoy the product, or fully to
apprehend either element, both must be known.

It is singular and worth inquiring into, for the reason that the
Greek and Roman literature had no such books. Timon of Athens, or Diogenes,
one may conceive qualified for this mode of authorship, had
journalism existed to rouse them in those days; their "articles"
would no doubt have been fearfully caustic.

But as they failed to produce anything, and Lucian in an after age is
scarcely characteristic enough for the purpose, perhaps we may pronounce
Rabelais and Montaigne the earliest of writers in the class
described.

In the century following theirs came Sir Thomas Browne, and immediately
after him La Fontaine. Then came Swift, Sterne, with others less
distinguished; in Germany, Hippel the friend of Kant, Harmann the
obscure, and the greatest of the whole body--Jean Paul Friedrich
Richter.

In him, from the strength and determinateness of his nature as well as
from the great extent of his writing, the philosophy of this interaction
between the author as a human agency and his theme as an intellectual
reagency might best be studied.

From him might be derived the largest number of cases, illustrating
boldly this absorption of the universal into the concrete--of the
pure intellect into the human nature of the author.

But nowhere could illustrations be found more interesting--shy, delicate,
evanescent--shy as lightning, delicate and evanescent as the colored
pencilings on a frosty night from the Northern Lights, than in the
better parts of Lamb.

To appreciate Lamb, therefore, it is requisite that his character and
temperament should be understood in their coyest and most wayward
features.

A capital defect it would be if these could not be gathered silently from
Lamb's works themselves.

It would be a fatal mode of dependency upon an alien and separable
accident if they needed an external commentary.

But they do not. The syllables lurk up and down the writings of Lamb,
which decipher his eccentric nature. His character lies there
dispersed in anagram; and to any attentive reader the regathering
and restoration of the total word from its scattered parts is
inevitable without an effort.

Still it is always a satisfaction in knowing a result, to know also its
why and how; and in so far as every character is likely to be
modified by the particular experience, sad or joyous, through which
the life has traveled, it is a good contribution toward the knowledge
of that resulting character as a whole to have a sketch of that
particular experience.

What trials did it impose? What energies did it task? What temptations did
it unfold? These calls upon the moral powers, which in music so
stormy many a life is doomed to hear--how were they faced?

The character in a capital degree molds often-times the life, but
the life always in a subordinate degree molds the character. And the
character being in this case of Lamb so much of a key to the
writings, it becomes important that the life should be traced,
however briefly, as a key to the character.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 26: From the "Confessions of an English Opium Eater."]
[Footnote 27: From the volume entitled "Biographical and Historical
Essays."]

[Footnote 28: From the volume entitled "Literary Reminiscences."]

LORD BYRON

Born in 1788, died in 1824; inherited the title and the estate of Newstead
Abbey in 1798; educated at Harrow and Cambridge; published "Hours
of Idleness" in 1807; traveled on the Continent in 1809-11; published
the first two cantos of "Childe Harold" in 1812; married Miss
Milbanke in 1815; separated from her in 1816, and abandoned England;
met the Countess Guiccioli at Venice in 1819; lived subsequently
at Ravenna, Pisa and Genoa; joined the Greek insurgents in 1823;
died of a fever at Missolonghi, Greece.

I
OF HIS MOTHER'S TREATMENT OF HIM[29]

I thought, my dear Augusta, that your opinion of my meek mama would
coincide with mine; her temper is so variable, and, when inflamed,
so furious, that I dread our meeting; not but I dare say that I am
troublesome enough, but I always endeavor to be as dutiful as
possible.

She is very strenuous, and so tormenting in her entreaties and commands,
with regard to my reconciliation with that detestable Lord G. that I
suppose she has a penchant for his Lordship; but I am confident
that he does not return it, for he rather dislikes her than otherwise,
at least as far as I can judge.

But she has an excellent opinion of her personal attractions,
sinks her age a good six years, avers that when I was born she was
only eighteen, when you, my dear sister, know as well as I know
that she was of age when she married my father, and that I was not
born for three years afterward.

But vanity is the weakness of your sex--and these are mere foibles
that I have related to you, and, provided she never molested me I
should look upon them as foibles very excusable in a woman.

But I am now coming to what must shock you as well as it does me.

When she has occasion to lecture me (not very seldom you will think no
doubt) she does not do it in a manner that commands respect or in
an impressive style. No!

did she do that I should amend my faults with pleasure, and dread to offend
a kind tho just mother. But she flies into a fit of frenzy, upbraids me
as if I was the most undutiful wretch in existence, rakes up
the ashes of my father, abuses him, says I shall be a true Byrrone,
which is the worst epithet she could invent.

Am I to call this woman mother? Because by nature's law she has authority
over me, am I to be trampled upon in this manner?

Am I to be goaded with insult, loaded with obloquy, and suffer my feelings
to be outraged on the most trivial occasions?

I owe her respect as a son, but I renounce her as a friend. What an
example does she show me. I hope in God I shall never follow it. I have
not told you all, nor can I; I respect you as a female, nor altho
I ought to confide in you as a sister, will I shock you with the
repetition of the scenes which you may judge of by the sample I
have given you, and which to all but you are buried in oblivion.

Would they were so in my mind! I am afraid they never will. And can
I, my dear sister, look up to this mother, with that respect, that
affection I ought?

Am I to be eternally subject to her caprice? I hope not--indeed, a few
short years will emancipate me from the shackles I now wear, and
then perhaps she will govern her passion better than at present.

You mistake me if you think I dislike Lord Carlisle. I respect him and
might like him did I know him better.

For him too my mother has an antipathy, why I know not. I am afraid he
will be of little use to me in separating me from her, which she would
oppose with all her might.

But I dare say he will assist me if he would, so I take the will for
the deed, and am obliged to him in exactly the same manner as if he
succeeded in his efforts. I am in great hopes that at Christmas I
will be with Mr.

Hanson during the vacation. I shall do all I can to avoid a visit to my
mother wherever she is. It is the first duty of a parent to impress precepts
of obedience in their children, but her method is so violent, so
capricious, that the patience of Job, the versatility of a member
of the House of Commons would not support it.

I revere Dr.
Drury much more than I do her, yet he is never violent, never
outrageous: I dread offending him, not however through fear, but
the respect I bear him makes me unhappy when I am under his
displeasure.

My mother's precepts never convey instruction, never fix upon my mind;
to be sure they are calculated to inculcate obedience, so are
chains and tortures, but tho they may restrain for a time the mind
revolts from such treatment.

Not that Mrs. Byron ever injures my _sacred_ person. I am rather too old
for that, but her words are of that rough texture which offend
more than personal ill usage.

"A talkative woman is like an adder's tongue," so says one of the
prophets, but which I can't tell, and very likely you don't wish
to know, but he was a true one whoever he was.

The postage of your letters, my dear Augusta, don't fall upon me; but
if they did it would make no difference, for I am generally in
cash and should think the trifle I paid for your epistles the best
laid out I ever spent in my life.

Write soon.

Remember me to Lord Carlisle, and believe me, I am ever
Your affectionate brother and friend,

BYRONE.[30]

II
TO HIS WIFE AFTER THE SEPARATION[31]

I have to acknowledge the receipt of "Ada's hair," which is very soft and
pretty and nearly as dark already as mine was at twelve years old,
if I may judge from what I recollect of some in Augusta's possession
taken at that age.

But it don't curl perhaps from it being let grow.

I also thank you for the inscription of the date and the name, and I
will tell you why: I believe they are the only two or three words of your
handwriting in my possession.

For your letters I returned and except the two words, or rather the
one word, "household" written twice in an old account book, I have
no other.

I burned your last note for two reasons: firstly, it was written in a
style not very agreeable; and secondly, I wish to take your word without
documents, which are the worldly resources of suspicious people. I suppose
that this note will reach you somewhere about Ada's birthday--the
10th of December, I believe.

She will then be six, so that in about twelve more I shall have some
chance of meeting her; perhaps sooner if I am obliged to go to England
by business or otherwise. Recollect, however, one thing either in distance
or nearness; every day that keeps us asunder should after so long a
period rather soften our mutual feelings, which must always have one
rallying point so long as our child exists, which I presume we both
hope will be long after either of her parents.

The time which has elapsed since our separation has been considerably
more than the whole brief period of our union, and the not much
longer one of our prior acquaintance.

We both made a bitter mistake, but now it is over and irrevocably so.
For, at thirty-three on my part, and a few years less on yours,
tho it is no very extended period of life, still it is one when the
habits and thought are generally so formed as to admit of no
modification; and as we could not agree while young, we should with
difficulty do so now.

I say all this because I own to you, that, notwithstanding everything,
I considered our union as not impossible for more than a year after the
separation; but then I gave up the hope entirely and forever.

But the very impossibility of reunion seems to me at least a reason
why, on all the few points of discussion which can arise between us,
we should preserve the courtesies of life, and as much of its kindness
as people who are never to meet may preserve perhaps more easily
than nearer connections.

For my own part, I am violent but not malignant; for only fresh provocation
can awaken my resentment.

To you, who are colder and more concentrated, I would just hint that you
may sometimes mistake the depth of a cold anger for dignity and a worse
feeling for duty.

I assure you that I bear you now (whatever I may have done) no
resentment whatever.

Remember, that if you have injured me in aught, the forgiveness is
something; and that if I have injured you it is something more
still, if it be true, as the moralists say, that the most offending
are the least forgiving.

Whether the offense has been solely on my side, or reciprocal, or on yours
chiefly, I have ceased to reflect upon any but two things, viz.,
that you are the mother of my child, and that we shall never meet
again.

I think if you also consider the two corresponding points with reference
to myself, it will be better for all three.

Yours ever,
NOEL BYRON.

III

TO SIR WALTER SCOTT[32]

MY DEAR SIR WALTER--I need not say how grateful I am for your letter,
but I must own my ingratitude in not having written to you again
long ago.

"The next game," said Uncle Steve, as they all sat round, awaiting his
directions, "is out of doors, so perhaps you had better put on your
coats and hats."

"Oh, Uncle Steve," said Marjorie, "the air is so soft and warm, I'm sure
we don't need wraps."

"Yes, you do," said Uncle Steve; "this is a peculiar game, and you must
have your coats on."

So the children trooped upstairs, and soon returned garbed for outdoors,
and two by two they followed Uncle Steve in a long procession. Mr.
Maynard was with them, too, but Uncle Steve was general manager, and told
everybody what to do.

He led them across the lawns, down through the orchard, and then they
came to a large plot of soft, newly-dug earth. It was a sandy soil and
not at all muddy, and the children wondered what kind of a game could
take place in a ploughed field.

"It has just been discovered," Uncle Steve began, "that this field you
see before you is the place where Captain Kidd buried his treasures! For
many years the site was undiscovered, but documents have been found
recently, proving beyond all doubt that the greater part of his vast
treasure was concealed in this particular piece of ground. Of course, if
this were generally known, all sorts of companies and syndicates would be
formed to dig for it. But I have carefully kept it secret from the world
at large, because I wanted you children to be the first ones to dig for
it. Bring the spades, please, Carter, and let us set to work at once."

So Carter brought twenty small spades, and gave one to each child
present.

"Now," said Uncle Steve, "dig wherever you like, all over the field, and
when you find any buried treasure, dig it up, but if it is tied up in
a parcel, do not open it. Every one finding any treasure must bring it,
and put it in this wheelbarrow, and then, if you choose, you may go back
and dig for more."

This was indeed a novel game, and girls and boys alike began to dig with
enthusiasm.

Marjorie worked like mad. The dirt flew right and left, and she dug so
hard and fast that she almost blistered her palms.

"Slow and sure is a better rule, Midget," said her uncle, who was
watching her. "Look at Kitty, she has dug quite as much as you without
making any fuss about it."

"Oh, I _have_ to work fast, Uncle Steve, 'cause I'm having such a good
time! If I didn't fling this spade around hard, I couldn't express my
enjoyment; and oh, Uncle, I've struck a treasure!"

Sure enough, Marjorie's spade had come in contact with what seemed to be
a tin box. It was quite a large box and was strongly tied with lots of
cord, and on it was pasted a paper with the legend, "This treasure was
buried by Captain Kidd. It is of great value."

"It is a treasure, it is!" cried Marjorie, and eagerly she wielded her
spade to get the box free. At last she succeeded, and picking it up from
the dirt, carried it to the wheelbarrow.

Two or three other children also brought treasures they had found, and
this encouraged the others so that they dug deeper.

Shouts of glee rang out from one or another as more and more boxes of
treasure were unearthed, and the pile of boxes in the wheelbarrow grew
higher every moment. The boxes were of all shapes and sizes. They were
all carefully tied up with lots of string and paper, and they all bore
testimony in large printed letters that they had been buried by Captain
Kidd and his band of pirates. King unearthed a large box two or three
feet square, but very flat and shallow. He could not imagine what it
might contain, but he piled it on the wheelbarrow with the others.

After twenty pieces of treasure had been dug up, Uncle Steve declared
that they had emptied the field, and he led the children back to the
house. Carter followed with the wheelbarrow, and they all gathered in the
little enclosed porch that had been furnished especially for Marjorie the
summer before. With a whiskbroom, Carter brushed off any dirt still
clinging to the treasures, and piled them up on a table.

Then calling the children by name. Uncle Steve invited each one to select
a box of treasure for his or her very own. Oh, but for that series of
wretched wars which terminated in the Roman conquest of the world; but
for the Christian religion which put the finishing stroke on the
ancient system; but for those changes that conducted Athens to its
ruin--to what an eminence might not humanity have arrived!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 37: From an essay written sometime in 1820-21, and suggested
by an article on poetry which his friend, Thomas Love Peacock, had
contributed to the _Literary Miscellany_.

John Addington Symonds, one of Shelley's biographers, cites this paper
as containing some of the finest prose writing of Shelley.]
[Footnote 38: One of Shelley's many letters to his friend, Thomas Love
Peacock, of which Symonds says: "Taken altogether, they are the most
perfect specimens of descriptive prose on the English language; never
overcharged with color, vibrating with emotions excited by the
stimulating scenes of Italy, frank in criticisms, and exquisitely
delicate in observation.

Their transparent sincerity and unpremeditated grace, combined with
natural finish of expression, make them masterpieces of a style at once
familiar and elevated." It was among the ruins of the Baths of Caracalla
that Shelley wrote his poem "Prometheus Unbound."

Of this poem Shelley wrote from Florence on December 26, 1819, a
letter the original of which is now owned in New York by Louis V.

Ledoux: "My 'Prometheus' is the best thing I ever wrote."]

[Footnote 39: A letter to Thomas Love Peacock, dated "Naples, Jan.
26, 1819."]

GEORGE GROTE

Born in 1794, died in 1871; educated at the Charterhouse; entered
his father's bank in 1810 and devoted himself thenceforth to
banking; elected to Parliament in 1833, serving until 1841; published
his "History of Greece" in 1846-56; wrote also "Plato and Other
Companions of Socrates," which was published in 1865.

They were waving
good-byes, and calling back messages of farewell, and the car rolled
away, leaving Grandma and Uncle Steve watching them out of sight.

Their next destination was New York City, where they were to make a short
visit at Grandma Maynard's.

"Isn't it funny," Marjorie said, voicing the sentiment of many older
travellers, "that when you leave one place you sort of forget it,--and
your thoughts fly ahead to the next place you're going."

"It's so long since I've been at Grandma Maynard's," said Kitty, "and I
was so little when I was there, that I hardly remember it at all."

"It isn't half as much fun as Grandma Sherwood's," declared King, and
then Marjorie, afraid lest her father should feel hurt, added quickly,
"But it's very nice indeed, and Grandma and Grandpa Maynard are lovely.
The only reason we have more fun at Grandma Sherwood's is because we
don't have to be quite so careful of our manners and customs."

"Well, it won't hurt you, Midget," said her mother, "to have a little
experience in that line; and I do hope, children, you will behave
yourselves, and not go to cutting up any of your mischief or jinks."

"Kit will be our star exhibit," said King, "she'll have to do the manners
for the family."

"I'll do my share," said Kitty, taking him literally, "but unless you two
behave, I can't do it all. If you go to pulling hair-ribbons and neckties
off each other, Grandma Maynard will think you're Hottentots!"

"I will be good, dear Mother," said King, with such an angelic expression
on his face that Mrs. Maynard felt sure he was in a specially roguish
mood; and though she thought her children were the dearest in the world,
yet she knew they had a propensity for getting into mischief just when
she wanted them to act most decorously.

But she said no more, for very often special admonitions resulted in
special misbehavior.

They were spinning along a lovely country road, which ran across that
portion of New Jersey, and the children found much to interest them in
the scenes they passed. Mr. Maynard liked to travel rather slowly, and as
it neared noon they stopped at a hotel for luncheon. Here they stayed
for some time, and the children were delighted to find that there were
several other children living at the hotel, and they soon became
acquainted.

One girl, about Marjorie's age, named Ethel Sinclair, seemed an
especially nice child, and Mrs. Maynard was glad to have Marjorie play
with her.

She was sitting on the veranda embroidering, and this interested
Marjorie, for all the girls she knew of her own age liked to run and play
better than to sit and sew.

But when Ethel showed them her work, Kitty and Marjorie, and even King,
took an interest in looking at it. It was a large piece of white linen,
about a yard square, neatly hemstitched, and all over it were names of
people.

Ethel explained that she asked any one whom she chose to write an
autograph on the cloth in pencil, and then afterward she worked them very
carefully with red cotton, taking very small stitches that the names
might be clear and legible.

"But what's it for?" asked King, with a boy's ignorance of such matters.

"It's a teacloth," said Ethel, "to cover a tea table, you know."

"But you don't have afternoon tea, do you?" asked Marjorie, for Ethel,
like herself, was only twelve.

"No, but I'm going to use it for a tablecover in my bedroom, and perhaps
when I grow older I can use it for a teacloth."

Ethel was a prim-mannered child, and had apparently been brought up in a
conventional manner, but Marjorie liked her, and stayed talking with her,
while King and Kitty went off to explore the gardens.

Differently, far differently, ought we to estimate the squanderers of human
blood, and the scorners of human tears.

_We_ also may boast of our great men in a cause as great; for without
it they could not be so. We may look back upon our Blake; whom the prodigies
of a Nelson do not eclipse, nor would he have wished (such was his
generosity) to obscure it.

Blake was among the founders of freedom; Nelson was the vanquisher of its
destroyers.

Washington was both; Kosciusko was neither; neither was Hofer. But
the aim of all three was alike; and in the armory of God are suspended
the arms the two last of them bore; suspended for success more signal
and for vengeance more complete.

I am writing this from Venice, which is among cities what Shakespeare
is among men.

He will give her immortality by his works, which neither her patron saint
could do, nor her surrounding sea.

II
NAPOLEON AND PERICLES

Two powerful nations have been vitally affected by natural calamities.

The former of these calamities was inevitable by human prudence,
and uncontrollable by human skill; the latter was to be foreseen
at any distance by the most ignorant, and to be avoided by the most
unwary.

I mean in the first the Plague of the Athenians; in the second the
starvation of the French.

The first happened under the administration of a man transcendently brave;
a man cautious, temperate, eloquent, prompt, sagacious, above all
that ever guided the councils and animated the energies of a state;
the second under a soldier of fortune, expert and enthusiastic; but
often deficient in moral courage, not seldom in personal; rude,
insolent, rash, rapacious; valuing but one human life among the
myriads at his disposal, and that one far from the worthiest, in
the estimation of an honester and a saner mind.

It is with reluctant shame I enter on a comparison of such a person and
Pericles. On one hand we behold the richest cultivation of the most
varied and extensive genius; the confidence of courage, the
sedateness of wisdom, the stateliness of integrity; on the other,
coarse manners, rude language, violent passions continually exploding,
a bottomless void on the side of truth, and a rueful waste on that
of common honesty....

So many pernicious faults were not committed by Xerxes or Darius,
whom ancient historians call feeble princes, as were committed by
Napoleon, whom the modern do not call feeble, because he felt nothing
for others, coerced pertinaciously, promised rashly, gave
indiscriminately, looked tranquilly, and spoke mysteriously.

Even in his flight, signalized by nothing but despondency, Segur, his
panegyrist, hath clearly shown that, had he retained any presence
of mind, any sympathy, or any shame, he might have checked and
crippled his adversary.

One glory he shares with Trajan and with Pericles, and neither time nor
malice can diminish it.

He raised up and rewarded all kinds of merit, even in those arts to which
he was a stranger.

In this indeed he is more remarkable, perhaps more admirable, than
Pericles himself, for Pericles was a stranger to none of them.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 20: Hofer had led the Tyrolese insurrection against
Napoleon's government in 1809, gaining victories at Sterzing,
Innsbruck and Isel.

He became the head of the government of the Tyrol which for two months
maintained her freedom.]

CHARLES LAMB

Born in The Temple, London, 1775, died in 1834; his father the clerk of
a bencher in the Inner Temple; entered Christ Hospital in 1782,
where he met Coleridge and remained seven years; became a clerk in
the South Sea House in 1789, and in the India House in 1792; his
sister, Mary Lamb, in a fit of temporary insanity, killed their
mother in 1796, Charles becoming her guardian for the remainder of
her life; began to publish verse in 1796; published "Rosamond Gray"
in 1798, a two-act farce produced at Drury Lane in 1805, "Tales
from Shakespeare," in which his sister shared the labor with him,
in 1807; and essays in various magazines, first collected in 1823
as the "Essays of Elia"; went abroad with his sister in 1822; retired
from the India House with a pension of £441 in 1825; published the
"Last Essays of Elia" in 1833.

"I'm sure we can," said Marjorie, heartily, and deep in her heart she
registered a vow that she would succeed this time.

After luncheon was over, Pompton brought the car around, and they started
off again. Marjorie bade Ethel good-bye with a feeling of regret that she
did not live nearer, so she might have her for a friend. But she had her
autograph as a souvenir, and she intended to work her tablecloth very
neatly, so it would look as good as Ethel's.

The afternoon ride was not a long one, and before four o'clock they came
in sight of the tall towers of the New York buildings.

The children had never approached the city in a motor car before, and
were enthusiastic over the view of it. Mr. Maynard pointed out the
different business buildings, some of which they already recognized. They
had to cross a downtown ferry, and soon they were speeding north through
the streets of crowded traffic.

As they neared Grandma Maynard's house in Fifth Avenue, Mrs. Maynard
looked over her brood carefully to see if they were in proper order for
presentation.

Except for slight evidences of travel, they all looked neat and tidy, and
the girls' pretty motor garb was becoming and correct. Some of the
crumbs of the scorched skin had come away with his fingers, and for
the first time in his life (in the world's life, indeed, for before
him no man had known it) he tasted--_crackling_!

Again he felt and fumbled at the pig. It did not burn him so much now,
still he licked his fingers from a sort of habit.

The truth at length broke into his slow understanding that it was the pig
that smelt so, and the pig that tasted so delicious; and surrendering
himself up to the new-born pleasure, he fell to tearing up whole
handfuls of the scorched skin with the flesh next it, and was
cramming it down his throat in his beastly fashion, when his sire
entered amid the smoking rafters, armed with retributory cudgel,
and finding how affairs stood, began to rain blows upon the young
rogue's shoulders, as thick as hail stones, which Bo-bo heeded not
any more than if they had been flies.

The tickling pleasure which he experienced in his lower regions had
rendered him quite callous to any inconveniences he might feel in
those remote quarters.

His father might lay on, but he could not beat him from his pig, till
he had fairly made an end of it, when, becoming a little more
sensible of his situation, something like the following dialog ensued.

"You graceless whelp, what have you got there devouring? Is it not
enough that you have burned me down three houses with your dog's
tricks, and be hanged to you!

but you must be eating fire, and I know not what--what have you got
there, I say?"

"O father, the pig, the pig! do come and taste how nice the burned pig
eats."
The ears of Ho-ti tingled with horror.

He curst his son, and he curst himself that ever he should beget a son that
should eat burned pig.

Bo-bo, whose scent was wonderfully sharpened since morning, soon
raked out another pig, and fairly rending it asunder, thrust the
lesser half by main force into the fists of Ho-ti, still shouting
out, "Eat, eat, eat the burned pig, father, only taste--O Lord"--with
such like barbarous ejaculations, cramming all the while as if he
would choke.

Ho-ti trembled in every joint while he grasped the abominable thing, wavering
whether he should not put his son to death for an unnatural young monster,
when the crackling scorching his fingers, as it had done his son's, and
applying the same remedy to them, he in his turn tasted some of its
flavor, which, make what sour mouths he would for pretense, proved
not altogether displeasing to him.

In conclusion (for the manuscript here is a little tedious) both father
and son fairly sat down to the mess, and never left off till they
had dispatched all that remained of the litter.

Bo-bo was strictly enjoined not to let the secret escape, for the neighbors
would certainly have stoned them for a couple of abominable wretches,
who could think of improving upon the good meat which God had sent
them.

Nevertheless strange stories got about. It was observed that Ho-ti's
cottage was burned down now more frequently than ever.

Nothing but fires from this time forward. Some would break out in broad
day, others in the night-time.

As often as the sow farrowed, so sure was the house of Ho-ti to be
in a blaze; and Ho-ti himself, which was the more remarkable, instead
of chastising his son, seemed to grow more indulgent to him than
ever.

At length they were watched, the terrible mystery discovered, and father
and son summoned to take their trial at Peking, then an inconsiderable
assize town.

Evidence was given, the obnoxious food itself produced in court, and verdict
about to be pronounced, when the foreman of the jury begged that some
of the burned pig, of which the culprits stood accused, might be handed
into the box.

He handled it, and they all handled it; and burning their fingers, as
Bo-bo and his father had done before them, and nature prompting each of
them the same remedy, against the faces of all the facts, and the
clearest charge which judge had ever given--to the surprize of the
whole court, townsfolk, strangers, reporters, and all present--without
leaving the box, or any manner of consultation whatever, they brought
in a simultaneous verdict of Not Guilty.

The judge, who was a shrewd fellow, winked at the manifest iniquity of
the decision; and when the court was dismissed, went privily, and
bought up all the pigs that could be had for love or money.

In a few days his lordship's town-house was observed to be on fire. The
thing took wing, and now there was nothing to be seen but fire in
every direction.

Fuel and pigs grew enormously dear all over the district.
The insurance offices one and all shut up shop.

People built slighter and slighter every day, until it was feared
that the very science of architecture would in no long time be lost
to the world. Thus this custom of firing houses continued, till in process
of time, says my manuscript, a sage arose, like our Locke, who
made a discovery, that the flesh of swine, or indeed of any other
animal, might be cooked (_burned_, as they call it) without the
necessity of consuming a whole house to dress it.

Then first began the rude form of a gridiron.
Roasting by the string or spit came in a century or two later, I
forget in whose dynasty.

By such slow degrees, concludes the manuscript, do the most useful and
seemingly the most obvious arts, make their way among mankind.

Without placing too implicit faith in the account above given, it must
be agreed, that if a worthy pretext for so dangerous an experiment
as setting houses on fire (especially in these days) could be
assigned in favor of any culinary object, that pretext and excuse
might be found in ROAST PIG.

Of all the delicacies in the whole _mundus edibilis_, I will maintain it
to be the most delicate--_princeps obsoniorum_.

IV

THAT WE SHOULD RISE WITH THE LARK[24]

At what precise minute that little airy musician doffs his night
gear, and prepares to tune up his unseasonable matins, we are not
naturalists enough to determine.

But for a mere human gentleman--that has no orchestra business to call him
from his warm bed to such preposterous exercise--we take ten, or
half after ten (eleven, of course, during this Christmas solstice),
to be the very earliest hour at which he can begin to think of
abandoning his pillow.

To think of it, we say; for to do it in earnest requires another
half hour's good consideration.

Not but there are pretty sun-risings, as we are told, and such like
gauds abroad in the world in summer-time especially, some hours
before what we have assigned, which a gentleman may see, as they
say, only for getting up.

But having been tempted once or twice, in earlier life, to assist at
those ceremonies, we confess our curiosity abated.

We are no longer ambitious of being the sun's courtiers, to attend at his
morning levees. We hold the good hours of the dawn too sacred to waste
them upon such observances; which have in them, besides, something pagan
and Persic.

To say truth, we never anticipated our usual hour, or got up with the sun
(as 'tis called), to go a journey, or upon a foolish whole day's pleasuring,
but we suffered for it all the long hours after in listlessness
and headaches; Nature herself sufficiently declaring her sense of
our presumption in aspiring to regulate our frail waking courses
by the measures of that celestial and sleepless traveler.

We deny not that there is something sprightly and vigorous, at the outset
especially, in these break-of-day excursions. It is flattering to get
the start of a lazy world, to conquer death by proxy in his image.
But the seeds of sleep and mortality are in us; and we pay usually,
in strange qualms before night falls, the penalty of the unnatural
inversion.

Therefore, while the busy part of mankind are fast huddling on their
clothes, or are already up and about their occupations, content
to have swallowed their sleep by wholesale, we choose to linger
abed, and digest our dreams.

It is the very time to recombine the wandering images which night in a
confused mass presented; to snatch them from forgetfulness; to shape
and mold them.

Some people have no good of their dreams. Like fast feeders, they gulp
them too grossly to taste them curiously. We love to chew the cud of a
foregone vision; to collect the scattered rays of a brighter phantasm,
or act over again, with firmer nerves, the sadder nocturnal
tragedies; to drag into daylight a struggling and half-vanishing
nightmare; to handle and examine the terrors or the airy solaces.

We have too much respect for these spiritual communications to let them go
so lightly.

We are not so stupid or so careless as that imperial forgetter of his
dreams, that we should need a seer to remind us of the form of them.

They seem to us to have as much significance as our waking concerns;
or rather to import us more nearly, as more nearly we approach by
years to the shadowy world whither we are hastening.

We have shaken hands with the world's business; we have done with it; we
have discharged ourselves of it.

Why should we get up? We have neither suit to solicit, nor affairs
to manage. The drama has shut in upon us at the fourth act.

We have nothing here to expect but in a short time a sick-bed and a
dismissal.

We delight to anticipate death by such shadows as night affords. We
are already half acquainted with ghosts. We were never much in the
world.

Disappointment early struck a dark veil between us and its dazzling
illusions. Our spirits showed gray before our hairs.

The mighty changes of the world already appear as but the vain stuff
out of which dramas are composed. We have asked no more of life than what
the mimic images in playhouses present us with.

Even those types have waxed fainter. Our clock appears to have struck. We
are superannuated.
In this dearth of mundane satisfaction, we contract politic alliances
with shadows.

It is good to have friends at court.

The abstracted media of dreams seem no ill introduction to that spiritual
presence, upon which, in no long time, we expect to be thrown. We are
trying to know a little of the usages of that colony; to learn the
language, and the faces we shall meet with there, that we may be
the less awkward at our first coming among them.

We willingly call a fantom our fellow, as knowing we shall soon be of
their dark companionship. Therefore we cherish dreams.

We try to spell in them the alphabet of the invisible world, and think
we know already how it shall be with us. Those uncouth shapes, which, while
we clung to flesh and blood, affrighted us, have become familiar. We feel
attached into their meager essences, and have given the hand of half-way
approach to incorporeal being.

We once thought life to be something, but it has unaccountably fallen
from us before its time. Therefore we choose to dally with visions.
The sun has no purposes of ours to light us to. Why should we get up?

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 21: From the "Essays of Elia."]
[Footnote 22: From the "Essays of Elia."]
[Footnote 23: From the "Essays of Elia."]
[Footnote 24: From the "Essays of Elia."]

WILLIAM HAZLITT

Born in 1778, died in 1880; an early friend of Lamb, Coleridge,
Southey, Moore and Leigh Hunt, with whom he afterward quarreled,
owing to differing political views and his own peculiar temper; his
writings mainly essays and criticisms; wrote also a notable "Life
of Napoleon," published in 1828.

HAMLET[25]

It is the one of Shakespeare's plays that we think of the oftenest,
because it sounds most in striking reflections on human life, and
because the distresses of Hamlet are transferred, by the turn of
his mind, to the general account of humanity.

Whatever happens to him, we apply to ourselves, because he applies
it to himself as a means of general reasoning.

He is a great moralizer; and what makes him worth attending to is that
he moralizes on his own feelings and experience.

He is not a commonplace pedant.

If Lear is distinguished by the greatest depth of passion, Hamlet is
the most remarkable for the ingenuity, originality, and unstudied
development of character.

Shakespeare had more magnanimity than any other poet, and he has shown
more of it in this play than in any other.

There is no attempt to force an interest: everything is left for time
and circumstances to unfold.

The attention is excited without effort; the incidents succeed each
other as matters of course; the characters think, and speak, and act
just as they might do if left entirely to themselves. There is no set
purpose, no straining at a point. The observations are suggested by
the passing scene--the gusts of passion come and go like sounds
of music borne on the wind.

The whole play is an exact transcript of what might be supposed to
have taken place at the court of Denmark at the remote period of
time fixt upon, before the modern refinements in morals and manners
were heard of.

It would have been interesting enough to have been admitted as a
bystander in such a scene, at such a time, to have heard and
witnessed something of what was going on.

But here we are more than spectators. We have not only "the outward pageants
and the signs of grief," but "we have that within which passes show."
We read the thoughts of the heart, we catch the passions living
as they rise.

Other dramatic writers give us very fine versions and paraphrases
of nature; but Shakespeare, together with his own comments, gives
us the original text, that we may judge for ourselves.

This is a very great advantage.

The character of Hamlet stands quite by itself.

It is not a character marked by strength of will or even of passion,
but by refinement of thought and sentiment.

Hamlet is as little of the hero as a man can well be; but he is a young
and princely novice, full of high enthusiasm and quick sensibility--the
sport of circumstances, questioning with fortune, and refining on
his own feelings, and forced from the natural bias of his disposition
by the strangeness of his situation.

He seems incapable of deliberate action, and is only hurried into extremities
on the spur of the occasion, when he has no time to reflect--as
in the scene where he kills Polonius; and, again, where he alters
the letters which Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are taking with them
to England, purporting his death.

At other times, when he is most bound to act, he remains puzzled,
undecided, and skeptical; dallies with his purposes till the
occasion is lost, and finds out some pretense to relapse into
indolence and thoughtfulness again.

For this reason he refuses to kill the king when he is at his prayers; and,
by a refinement in malice, which is in truth only an excuse for his own
want of resolution, defers his revenge to a more fatal opportunity....

The moral perfection of this character has been called in question, we
think, by those who did not understand it. It is more interesting than
according to rules; amiable tho not faultless.

The ethical delineations of "that noble and liberal casuist"--as Shakespeare
has been well called--do not exhibit the drab-colored Quakerism
of morality.

His plays are not copied either from "The Whole Duty of Man" or from
"The Academy of Compliments!" We confess we are a little shocked at the
want of refinement in those who are shocked at the want of
refinement in Hamlet.

The neglect of punctilious exactness in his behavior either partakes of
the "license of the time," or else belongs to the very excess of
intellectual refinement in the character, which makes the common
rules of life, as well as his own purposes, sit loose upon him.

He may be said to be amenable only to the tribunal of his own thoughts, and
is too much taken up with the airy world of contemplation, to lay
as much stress as he ought on the practical consequences of things. His
habitual principles of action are unhinged and out of joint with
the time.

His conduct to Ophelia is quite natural in his circumstances. It is that
of assumed severity only. It is the effect of disappointed hope, of bitter
regrets, of affection suspended, not obliterated, by the distractions
of the scene around him!

Amidst the natural and preternatural horrors of his situation, he might
be excused in delicacy from carrying on a regular courtship.
When "his father's spirit was in arms," it was not a time for the son to
make love in.

He could neither marry Ophelia, nor wound her mind by explaining the cause
of his alienation, which he durst hardly trust himself to think of.

It would have taken him years to have come to a direct explanation
on the point.

In the harassed state of his mind, he could not have done much otherwise
than he did. His conduct does not contradict what he says when he sees
her funeral:

I loved Ophelia; forty thousand brothers Could not, with all their
quantity of love, Make up my sum.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 25: From the "Characters of Shakespeare's Plays."]

THOMAS DE QUINCEY

Born in 1785, died in 1859; son of a wealthy merchant; studied at
Oxford without taking a degree; settled at Grasmere, near Coleridge
and Wordsworth, about 1808; losing his fortune, sought literary
work in London in 1821; contracted at Oxford the opium habit, under
which at one time he took 340 grains daily; made his opium experiences
the basis of an essay entitled "Confessions of an English Opium
Eater," published in 1821; wrote for many periodicals and eventually
settled in Edinburgh; his collected works comprize many volumes.

I
DREAMS OF AN OPIUM-EATER[26] 

_May 18.

_--The Malay has been a fearful enemy for months. Every night, through
his means, I have been transported into Asiatic scenery. I know not
whether others share in my feelings on this point, but I have often
thought that if I were compelled to forego England, and to live in
China, and among Chinese manners and modes of life and scenery, I
should go mad.

The causes of my horror lie deep, and some of them must be common to others.
Southern Asia, in general, is the seat of awful images and
associations.

As the cradle of the human race, it would have a dim and reverential
feeling connected with it. But there are other reasons.

No man can pretend that the wild, barbarous, and capricious superstitions
of Africa, or of savage tribes elsewhere, affect in the way that
he is affected by the ancient, monumental, cruel, and elaborate
religions of Hindustan, etc.

The mere antiquity of Asiatic things, of their institutions, history,
modes of faith, etc., is so impressive that to me the vast age of the
race and name overpowers the sense of youth in the individual.

A young Chinese seems to me an antediluvian man renewed. Even Englishmen,
tho not bred in any knowledge of such institutions, can not but
shudder at the mystic sublimity of castes that have flowed apart,
and refused to mix, through such immemorial tracts of time; nor can
any man fail to be awed by the names of the Ganges or the Euphrates.

It contributes much to these feelings, that southern Asia is, and has
been for thousands of years, the part of the earth most swarming
with human life; the great _officina gentium_.

Man is a weed in those regions. The vast empires, also, into which the
enormous population of Asia has always been cast, give a further
sublimity to the feelings associated with all Oriental names or
images.

In China, over and above what it has in common with the rest of southern
Asia, I am terrified by the modes of life, by the manners, and the
barrier of utter abhorrence and want of sympathy placed between us
by feelings deeper than I can analyze.

I could sooner live with lunatics or brute animals. All this, and much
more than I can say, or have time to say, the reader must enter into before
he can comprehend the unimaginable horror which these dreams of Oriental
imagery and mythological tortures imprest upon me.

Under the connecting feeling of tropical heat and vertical sunlights
I brought together all creatures, birds, beasts, reptiles, all trees
and plants, usages and appearances, that are to be found in all
tropical regions, and assembled them together in China or Hindustan.

From kindred feelings I soon brought Egypt and all her gods under
the same law. I was stared at, hooted at, grinned at, chattered
at, by monkeys, by parrakeets, by cockatoos.

I ran into pagodas, and was fixt for centuries at the summit, or in
secret rooms; I was the idol; I was the priest; I was worshiped; I was
sacrificed. I fled from the wrath of Brahma, through all the forests
of Asia; Vishnu hated me; Seeva laid wait for me.

I came suddenly upon Isis and Osiris; I had done a deed, they said, which
the ibis and the crocodile trembled at. I was buried for a thousand
years, in stone coffins, with mummies and sphinxes, in narrow chambers,
at the heart of eternal pyramids. I was kissed, with cancerous kisses,
by crocodiles, and was laid, confounded with all unutterable
abortions, amongst reeds and Nilotic mud.

Some slight abstraction I thus attempt of my Oriental dreams, which filled
me always with such amazement at the monstrous scenery, that horror
seemed absorbed for a while in sheer astonishment. Sooner or later
came a reflux of feeling that swallowed up the astonishment, and
left me, not so much in terror, as in hatred and abomination of
what I saw.

Over every form, and threat, and punishment, and dim sightless
incarceration, brooded a killing sense of eternity and infinity. Into
these dreams only it was, with one or two slight exceptions, that any
circumstances of physical horror entered. All before had been moral and
spiritual terrors.

But here the main agents were ugly birds, or snakes, or crocodiles,
especially the last. The curst crocodile became to me the object
of more horror than all the rest.

I was compelled to live with him, and (as was always the case in my
dreams) for centuries. Sometimes I escaped, and found myself in
Chinese houses.

All the feet of the tables, sofas, etc., soon became instinct with
life; the abominable head of the crocodile, and his leering eyes,
looked out at me, multiplied into ten thousand repetitions; and I
stood loathing and fascinated.

So often did this hideous reptile haunt my dreams, that many times the
very same dream was broken up in the very same way. I heard gentle
voices speaking to me (I hear everything when I am sleeping), and instantly
I awake; it was broad noon, and my children were standing, hand in hand,
at my bedside, come to show me their colored shoes, or new frocks, or
to let me see them drest for going out. No experience was so awful to me,
and at the same time so pathetic, as this abrupt translation from
the darkness of the infinite to the gaudy summer air of highest
noon, and from the unutterable abortions of mis-created gigantic
vermin to the sight of infancy and innocent human natures.

_June 1819._--I have had occasion to remark, at various periods of my
life, that the deaths of those whom we love, and, indeed, the
contemplation of death generally, is (_coeteris paribus_) more affecting
in summer than in any other season of the year. And the reasons
are these three, I think: first, that the visible heavens in summer
appear far higher, more distant, and (if such a solecism may be
excused) more infinite; the clouds by which chiefly the eye expounds
the distance of the blue pavilion stretched over our heads are in
summer more voluminous, more massed, and are accumulated in far
grander and more towering piles; secondly, the light and the
appearances of the declining and the setting sun are much more
fitted to be types and characters of the infinite; and thirdly
(which is the main reason), the exuberant and riotous prodigality
of life naturally forces the mind more powerfully upon the antagonist
thought of death, and the wintry sterility of the grave.

But the entertaining lady did not seem to think it strange, and
she replied, "Yes, I will sing for you with pleasure."

So she sang another song, but though it was pretty music, Marjorie could
not understand the words, and she began to think that the programme
was rather tiresome.

The lady kept on telling stories and reciting poems, and singing, until
Marjorie almost had the fidgets. It seemed so unlike her notion of a
children's party, to sit still and listen to a programme all the
afternoon, and she grew cramped and tired, and longed for it to be over.
But the city children did not seem to feel that way at all. They sat very
demurely with their hands clasped, and their slippered feet crossed, and
applauded politely at the proper times. Marjorie glanced at King and
Kitty, and their answering glances proved that they felt exactly as she
did herself. However, all three were determined to do the right thing,
and so they sat still, and tried to look as if they were enjoying
themselves.

At half-past five the programme came to an end, and the children were
invited to go out into the dining-room for the feast.

The dining-room was transformed into a place of beauty. Small tables
accommodated six guests each, and at each place was a lovely basket of
flowers with a big bow of gauze ribbon on the handle. Each table had a
different color, and the flowers in the basket matched the ribbon bow.
Marjorie's basket was filled with pink sweet peas, while at another table
Kitty had lavender pansies, and King found himself in front of a basket
of yellow daisies.

The feast, as might have been expected at Grandma Maynard's, was
delicious, but the Maynard children could not enjoy it very much because
of their environment. They were not together, and each one being with
several strangers, felt it necessary to make polite conversation.

King tried to talk on some interesting subject to the little girl who sat
next him.

"Have you a flower garden?" he said.

"Oh, no, indeed; we live in the city, so we can't very well have a flower
garden."

"No, of course not," agreed King. "You see, we live in the country, so we
have lots of flowers."

"It must be dreadful to live in the country," commented the little girl,
with a look of scorn.

"It isn't dreadful at all," returned King; "and just now, in springtime,
it's lovely. The flowers are all coming out, and the birds are hopping
around, and the grass is getting green. What makes you say it's
dreadful?"

"Oh, I don't like the country," said the child, with a shrug of her
little shoulders. "The grass is wet, and there aren't any pavements, and
everything is so disagreeable."

"You're thinking of a farm; I don't mean that kind of country," and then
King remembered that he ought not to argue the question, but agree with
the little lady, so he said, "But of course if you don't like the
country, why you don't, that's all"

"Yes, that's all," said the little girl, and then the conversation
languished, for the children seemed to have no subjects in common.

At her table, Marjorie was having an equally difficult time. There was a
good-looking and pleasant-faced boy sitting next to her, so she said,
"Do you have a club?"

"Oh, no," returned the boy; "my father belongs to clubs, but I'm too
young."

"But I don't mean that kind," explained Marjorie; "I mean a club just for
fun. We have a Jinks Club,--we cut up jinks, you know."

"How curious!" said the boy. "What are jinks?"

Marjorie thought the boy rather silly not to know what jinks were, for
she thought any one with common sense ought to know that, but she said,
"Why, jinks are capers,--mischief,--any kind of cutting up."

"And you have a club for that?" exclaimed the boy, politely surprised.

"Yes, we do," said Marjorie, determined to stand up for her own club.
"And we have lovely times. We do cut up jinks, but we try to make them
good jinks, and we play all over the house, and out of doors, and
everywhere."

"It must be great fun," said the boy, but he said it in such an
uninterested tone that Marjorie gave up talking to him, and turned her
attention to the neighbor on her other side.

When the supper was over, the young guests all took their leave. Again
the Maynards stood in a group to receive the good-byes, and every child
expressed thanks for the afternoon's pleasure in a formal phrase, and
curtsied, and went away.

When they had all gone, the Maynard children looked at each other,
wondering what to do next.

"You may go up to the billiard room and play, if you like," said Grandma,
benignly. "You will not want any other supper to-night, I'm sure; so you
may play up there until bedtime."

Rosy Posy was carried away by the nurse, but the three other children
started for the billiard room. Marjorie, however, turned back to say,
"We all thank you, Grandma Maynard, for the party you gave us."

Kitty and King murmured some sort of phrase that meant about the same
thing, but as they had not enjoyed the party at all they didn't make
their thanks very effusive, and then the three walked decorously
upstairs. But once inside the billiard room, with the door shut, they
expressed their opinions.

"That was a high old party, wasn't it?" said King.

"The very worst ever!" declared Kitty. "I never got so tired of anything
in my life, as I did listening to that entertaining person, or whatever
they call her."

"It _was_ an awful poky party," said Marjorie, "but I think we ought to
give Grandma credit for meaning to give us pleasure. Of course she's
used to children who act like that, and she couldn't even imagine the
kind of parties we have at home, where we frolic around and have a good
time. So I say don't let's jump on her party, but remember that she did
it for us, and she did it the best she knew how."

"You're a good sort, Mopsy," said King, looking at his sister
affectionately. "What you say is all right, and it goes. Now let's cut
out that party and try to forget it."

There were some quiet games provided for the children, and so they played
parcheesi and authors until bedtime, for though the billiard room was
hardly within hearing of their grandparents, yet they did not feel like
playing romping games.

"I don't think I shall ever holler again," said King. "I'm getting so
accustomed to holding my breath for fear I'll make too much noise that
I'll probably always do so after this."

"No, you won't," said practical Kitty. "As soon as you get away from
Grandma Maynard's house you'll yell like a wild Indian."

"I expect I will," agreed King. "Come on, let's play Indians now."

"Nope," said Marjorie; "we'd get too noisy, and make mischief. I'm going
to bed; I'm awfully tired."

"So'm I," said Kitty. "Parties like that are enough to wear anybody out!"

They all went downstairs to their bedrooms, but as Marjorie passed the
door of her grandmother's room, she paused and looked in.

"May I come in, Grandma?" she said. "I do love to see you in your
beautiful clothes. You look just lovely."

Marjorie's compliment was very sincere, for she greatly admired her
grandmother, and in spite of her formality, and even severity, Marjorie
had a good deal of affection for her.

The maid was just putting the finishing touches to Mrs. Maynard's
costume, and as she stood; robed in mauve satin, with sparkling diamond
ornaments, she made a handsome picture. Mrs. Maynard was a beautiful
woman, and exceedingly young-looking for her age. There was scarcely a
thread of gray in her dark brown hair, and the natural roses still
bloomed on her soft cheeks.

Marjorie had not seen her grandmother before in full evening attire, and
she walked round, gazing at her admiringly.

"I don't wonder my father is such a handsome man," she said. "He looks
ever so much like you."

Grandma Maynard was pleased at this naïve compliment, for she knew
Marjorie was straightforward and sincere. She smiled at her little
granddaughter, saying, "I'm glad you're pleased with your family's
personal appearance, and I think some day you will grow up to be a pretty
young lady yourself; but you must try to remember that handsome is as
handsome does."

Marjorie's adaptable nature quickly took color from her surroundings and
influences, and gazing at her refined and dignified grandmother, she said
earnestly, "When I grow up, Grandma, I hope I'll look just like you, and
I hope I'll behave just like you. I _am_ rather a naughty little girl;
but you see I was born just chock-full of mischief, and I can't seem to
get over it."

"You are full of mischief, Marjorie, but I think you will outgrow it.
Why, if you lived with me, I believe you'd turn my hair white in a single
night."

"That would be a pity, Grandma," and Marjorie smiled at the carefully
waved brown locks which crowned her grandma's forehead.

"Now I'm going down to dinner, Marjorie,--we have guests coming. But if
you like, you may amuse yourself for a little while looking round this
room. In that treasure cabinet are many pretty curios, and I know I can
trust you to be careful of my things."

"Thank you, Grandma; I will look about here for a little while, and
indeed I will be careful not to harm anything."

So Grandma's satin gown rustled daintily down the stairs, and Marjorie
was left alone in her beautifully appointed bedroom.

She opened the treasure cabinet, and spent a pleasant half hour looking
over the pretty things it contained. She was a careful child, and touched
the things daintily, putting each back in its right place after she
examined it.

Then she locked the glass doors of the cabinet, and walked leisurely
about the room, looking at the pretty furnishings. The dainty toilet
table interested her especialty, and she admired its various
appointments, some of which she did not even know the use of. One
beautiful carved silver affair she investigated curiously, when she
discovered it was a powder box, which shook out scented powder from a
perforated top. Marjorie amused herself, shaking some powder on her hand,
and flicking it on her rosy cheeks. It was a fascinating little affair,
for it worked by an unusual sort of a spring, and Marjorie liked to play
with it.

She wandered about the room with the powder-box still in her hand, and as
she paused a moment at Grandma's bedside, a brilliant idea came to her.

The bed had been arranged for the night. The maid had laid aside the
elaborate lace coverlet and pillow covers, had deftly turned back the bed
clothing in correct fashion, and had put Grandma's night pillow in place.

For some reason, as Marjorie looked at the pillow, there flashed across
her mind what Grandma had said about her hair turning white in a single
night, and acting on a sudden impulse, Marjorie shook powder from the
silver box all over Grandma's pillow. Then chuckling to herself, she
replaced the powder-box on the dressing table, and went to her own room.


CHAPTER XIV

A MERRY JOKE


The next morning, while Marjorie was dressing, she heard a great
commotion in the halls. Peeping out her door she saw maids running hither
and thither with anxious, worried faces. She heard her grandmother's
voice in troubled accents, and Grandfather seemed to be trying to soothe
her.

Naughty Marjorie well knew what it was all about, and chuckled with glee
as she finished dressing, and went down to breakfast.

She found the family assembled in the breakfast room, and Grandma Maynard
telling the story. "Yes," she said, "I knew perfectly well that to have
these children in the house, with their noise and racket, would so get on
my nerves that it would turn my hair white, and it has done so!"

Marjorie looked at Grandma Maynard's hair, and though not entirely
white, it was evenly gray all over. As she had laid her head on her
plentifully-powdered pillow, and perhaps restlessly moved it about, the
powder had distributed itself pretty evenly, and the result was a head of
gray hair instead of the rich brown tresses of the night before.

Her son and daughter-in-law could not believe that this effect was caused
by the disturbance made by their own children; but far less did they
suspect the truth of the matter. Whatever opinions the various members of
the family held as to the cause of the phenomenon, not one of them
suspected Marjorie's hand in the matter.

As for Midget herself, she was convulsed with glee, although she did not
show it. Never had she played a joke which had turned out so amazingly
well, and the very fact that neither Kitty nor King knew anything about
it lessened the danger of detection.

"It seems incredible," Grandma went on, "that this thing should really
happen to me, for I've so often feared it might; and then to think it
should come because the visit of my own grandchildren was so upsetting to
my nerves!"

"Nonsense, Mother," said her son, "it couldn't have been that! It isn't
possible that the children, no matter how much they carried on, would
have any such effect as that!"

"You may say so, Ed; but look at the effect, and then judge for yourself;
what is your explanation of this disaster that has come to me?"

"I don't know, I'm sure, Mother,--but it couldn't be what you suggest.
I've heard of such an accident happening to people, but I never believed
it before. Now I'm forced to admit it must be true. What do you think,
Helen?"

Mrs. Maynard looked thoughtful. "I don't know," she said slowly, "but it
must be the symptom of some disease or illness that has suddenly attacked
Mother Maynard."

"But I'm perfectly well," declared the older lady; "and a thing like this
doesn't happen without some reason; and there's no reason for it, except
some great mental disturbance, and I've had nothing of that sort except
the visit of these children! Ed, you'll have to take them away."

"I think I shall have to," said Mr. Maynard, gravely. It was a great
trial to him that his parents could not look more leniently upon his
children. He had rarely brought them to visit their grandparents, because
it always made his mother nervous and irritable. But it was too absurd to
think that such nervousness and irritation could cause her brown hair to
turn almost white, a proceeding which he had always thought was a mere
figure of speech anyway.

Breakfast proceeded in an uncomfortable silence. It was useless to try to
console Grandma Maynard, or to make her think that the gray hair was
becoming to her. Indeed, everything that was said only made her more
disconsolate about the fate which had overtaken her, and more annoyed at
the children, whom she considered to blame.

At last, sharp-eyed, practical Kitty volunteered the solution. She had
sat for some time watching her grandmother, and at last she felt sure
that she saw grains of powder fall from the gray hair to the shoulder of
Grandma's gown. When she was fully convinced that this was the case, she
looked straight at the victim of misfortune and said, "Grandma, I think
you are playing a trick on us. I think you have powdered your hair, and
you are only pretending it has turned gray."

"What do you mean, Kitty, child?" said her father, in amazement, for it
almost seemed as if Kitty were rebuking her grandmother.

"Why, just look, Father! There is powder shaking down on Grandma's
shoulder."

"Nonsense!" cried Grandma, angrily. "I'd be likely to do a thing like
that, wouldn't I, Miss Kitty? And indeed, if it _were_ powder, and could
be brushed out, and leave my hair its natural color, I should be only too
grateful!"

This was Marjorie's chance. She loved to make a sensation, and laying
down her knife and fork, she said, quietly, "Kitty is right, Grandma; it
_is_ nothing but powder, and I put it there myself."

"What!" exclaimed Grandma. "Do you mean to say, Marjorie, that you
powdered my hair? How did you do it? Oh, child, if you are telling me the
truth, if it is really only powder, I shall be so relieved that I will
make you a handsome present!"

This was a new turn of affairs, indeed! Marjorie had had misgivings as to
the results of her practical joke, but it had seemed to her merely a
harmless jest, and she had hoped that it might be taken lightly. But when
Grandma expressed such consternation at her whitened hair, Marjorie had
been shaking in her shoes, lest she should be punished, rather than
laughed at for her trick. And now to be offered a beautiful present was
astonishing, truly! The ways of grownups were surely not to be counted
upon!

With lightened spirits, then, and with sparkling eyes, Marjorie completed
her confession. "Yes," she went on, "after you said last night that you
b'lieved us children could turn your hair white in a single night, I
thought I'd make believe we did. So,--and you know, Grandma, you told me
I could stay around in your room for a while, and look at your pretty
things,--so, when I saw that queer sort of a powder-shaker I couldn't
help playing with it. And then when I saw your bed all fixed so nice for
the night, I thought it would be fun to powder your pillow. I've heard
of people doing it before. I didn't make it up myself. So I shook the
powder all over your pillow, and then of course you put your head on it,
and of course it made your hair white."

Marjorie's parents looked aghast, for to them it seemed as if she had
simply played a practical joke on her grandmother, and one not easily
forgiven, but Grandpa Maynard expressed himself in a series of chuckles.

"Chip of the old block," he said. "Chip of the old block! Just what you
would have done, Ed, when you were a boy, if you had thought of it!
Marjorie, practical jokes run in the family, and you can't help your
propensity for them! I don't approve of them, mind you, I don't approve
of them, but once in a while when one works out so perfectly, I can't
help enjoying it. What do you say, Mother?"

He turned to his wife, and to the surprise of all, she was beaming with
joy. It was not so much her enjoyment of the joke as her relief at
finding that her hair had not turned gray, and could easily be restored
to its beautiful brown.

"I'm quite sure I ought to be annoyed," she said, smiling at Marjorie.
"I'm almost certain I ought to be very angry, and I know you ought to be
punished. But none of these things are going to happen. I'm so glad that
it is only a joke that I forgive the little jokemaker, and as I promised,
I will give you a present as an expression of my gratitude."

And so the breakfast ended amid general hilarity, and afterward Grandma
took Marjorie up to her own room, and they had a little quiet talk.

"I don't want you to misunderstand me, dear," she said, "for practical
jokes are not liked by most people, and they're not a nice amusement for
a little girl. But, I'm afraid, Marjorie, that I have been too harsh and
stern with you, and so I think we can even things up this way. I will
pass over the rudeness and impertinence of your deed, if you will promise
me not to make a practice of such jokes throughout your life. Or at
least, we will say, on older people. I suppose a good-natured joke on
your schoolfellows now and then does no real harm; but I want you to
promise me never again to play such a trick on your elders."

"I do promise, Grandma; and I want to tell you that your kindness to me
makes me feel more ashamed of my naughty trick than if you had punished
me. You see, Grandma, I do these things without thinking,--I mean without
thinking hard enough. When the notion flies into my head it seems so
funny that I just _have_ to go on and do it! But I _am_ trying to
improve, and I don't cut up as many jinks as I used to."

"That's a good girl. Marjorie, I believe you'll make a fine woman, and I
wish I could have the training of you. How would you like to come and
live with me?"

"That's funny, Grandma," said Midget, laughing, "after all you've said
about your not wanting us children in the house."

"I know it; and I can't stand the whole lot of you at once, but I really
do believe, Marjorie, that I'll take you and bring you up. I shall
speak to your father and mother about it at once."

"Oh, Grandma, don't!" And Marjorie clasped her hands, with a look of
horror on her face. "_Don't_ ask me to leave Mother and Father! And
King, and Kitty, and the baby! Why, Grandma, I _couldn't_ do it, any more
than I could fly!"

"Why not? You don't realize all I could do for you. We live much more
handsomely than you do at home, and I would give you everything you
wanted."

"But, Grandma, all those things wouldn't make any difference if I had to
leave my dear people! Why, do you really s'pose I'd even _think_ of such
a thing! Why, I couldn't _live_ without my own father and mother! I love
you and Grandpa, and since you've been so kind and forgiving this
morning, I love you a lot more than I did; but, my goodness, gracious,
sakes, I'd never live with anybody but my own special particular bunch of
Maynards!"

"It's a question you can't decide for yourself, child. I shall speak to
your parents about it, and they will appreciate better than you do the
advantages it would mean for you to follow out my plan. Now I will give
you the present I promised you, and I think it will be this very same
silver powder-box. You probably do not use powder, but it is a pretty
ornament to set on your dressing table, and I want you to let it remind
you of your promise not to play practical jokes."

"Oh, thank you, Grandma," said Marjorie, as she took the pretty trinket;
"I'm glad to have it, because it is so pretty. And I will remember my
promise, and somehow I feel sure I'm going to keep it."

"I think you will, dear, and now you may run away for the present, as I
am going to be busy."

Marjorie found King and Kitty in the billiard room, waiting for her.

"Well, you are the limit!" exclaimed King. "How did you ever dare cut up
that trick, Mops? You got out of it pretty lucky, but I trembled in my
boots at first. I don't see how you dared play a joke on Grandma Maynard
of all people!"

"Why didn't you tell us about it?" asked Kitty. "Oh, did she give you
that lovely powder-box?"

"Yes," laughed Marjorie, "as a reward for being naughty! And she's going
to reward me further. What do you think? She's going to take me to live
with her!"

"What!" cried King and Kitty, in the same breath. And then King grasped
Marjorie by the arm. "You shan't go!" he cried. "I won't let you!"

"I won't either!" cried Kitty, grasping her other arm. "Why, Mops, we
simply couldn't live without you!"

"I know it, you old goosey! And I couldn't live without you! The idea! As
if any of us four Maynards could get along without any of each other!"

"I just guess we couldn't!" exclaimed King, and then as far as the
children were concerned, the subject was dropped.


CHAPTER XV

A RIDE IN MAY


At the breakfast table, the next morning, Grandma Maynard announced her
intention of keeping her oldest grandchild with her as her own.

Marjorie's mother looked up with a frightened glance at this declaration,
and she turned her face appealingly toward her husband. But when she
saw the twinkle in his eye, she knew at once there was not the slightest
danger of her losing her oldest daughter in this way.

But, apparently by way of a joke, Mr. Maynard saw fit to pretend to
approve of his mother's plan.

"Why, Mother," he said, "wouldn't that be fine! This big house needs a
young person in it, and as we have four, we ought to be able to spare
one. You'll have grand times, Midget, living here, won't you?"

If Marjorie had not been so overcome at the very thought of leaving her
own family, she would have realized that her father was only joking; but
she had been so truly afraid that her grandmother's wishes might possibly
be granted that she couldn't realize her father's intent.

"Oh, Father!" she cried, with a perfect wail of woe; and then, jumping
from her seat at the table, she ran to her mother's side, and flung
herself into her arms, where she gave way to one of her tumultuous crying
spells.

Poor little Marjorie was not greatly to blame. She had lain awake the
night before, fearing that this thing might happen, and so was in no mood
to appreciate a jest on the subject.

Unwilling to have such a commotion at the breakfast table, Mrs. Maynard
rose, and with her arm round the sobbing child, drew her away to an
adjoining room, where she reassured her fears, and told her that her
father did not at all mean what he had said.

"Now, you see, Mother," Mr. Maynard went on, "how Midget feels about the
matter. Well, my feelings are exactly the same, only I choose a different
mode of expression. I'm sorry the child is so upset because I jokingly
agreed to the plan, but she'll get over it in a few minutes, with her
mother's help. And as you must know, Mother, we appreciate how fine it
would be for Marjorie to live here, and be the petted darling of you two
dear people, but you must also know that it is just as much out of the
question for us to give you one of our children as it would be to give
you the whole four!"

"That's a gift I wouldn't care for," said Grandma Maynard, smiling at the
other three; "but I have taken a great fancy to Marjorie, and I know I
could make her love me."

At this moment Marjorie and her mother returned, both with smiling, happy
faces. Marjorie heard her grandmother's last words, and running to her,
she threw her arms around the old lady's neck.

"I do love you, Grandma," she cried, "but of course you must know that I
couldn't leave my own Maynards. Why, we're the 'votedest family you ever
did see! We couldn't spare any one of each other! And, Grandma, when you
were a little girl twelve years old, you wouldn't have gone away from
your father and mother to live, would you?"

"No, Marjorie, I don't suppose I would," admitted Grandma Maynard,
patting the little girl's cheek; "but perhaps when you're older, dear,
you may change your mind about this."

Marjorie looked thoughtful a moment, and then she said, "Grandma, I don't
truly think I will, but if I _should_ I'll let you know."

"I hadn't an idea the child would come to live with us," said Grandpa
Maynard, "but how's this for a suggestion? Let her come to visit us for a
time every year. I believe she makes long visits to her other
grandmother."

Marjorie smiled involuntarily at the thought of the difference between
the homes of the two grandmothers, but she said nothing, knowing from
what her mother had told her that she would not be sent away from home
unless she chose.

"Oh, Midget doesn't visit Grandma Sherwood every year," said Marjorie's
father. "She only goes there once in four years. So to even matters up,
suppose we let Marjorie come here and make a little visit next winter,
with the understanding that if she gets homesick, she's to be sent home
at once."

Everybody agreed to this, and though Marjorie felt a positive conviction
that she would get homesick about the second day, yet Grandma Maynard
made a silent resolve that she would make everything so attractive to
Marjorie that the visit would be a long one.

The acquisition of universal dominion--conceived not metaphorically, but
literally, and conceived with greater facility in consequence of the
imperfect geographical knowledge of the time--was the master-passion
of his soul.

       At the moment of his death, he was commencing fresh aggression in
the south against the Arabians, to an indefinite extent; while his
vast projects against the western tribes in Africa and Europe, as
far as the Pillars of Hercules, were consigned in the orders and
memoranda confidentially communicated to Kraterus.

Italy, Gaul, and Spain would have been successively attacked and conquered;
the enterprises proposed to him when in Bactria by the Chorasmian
prince Pharasmanes, but postponed then until a more convenient
season, would have been next taken up, and he would have marched
from the Danube northward round the Euxine and Palus Mæotis[45]
against the Scythians and the tribes of the Caucasus.

There remained, moreover, the Asiatic regions east of the Hyphasis, which
his soldiers had refused to enter upon, but which he certainly would have
invaded at a future opportunity, were it only to efface the poignant
humiliation of having been compelled to relinquish his proclaimed
purpose.

Tho this sounds like romance and hyperbole, it was nothing more than the
real insatiate aspiration of Alexander, who looked upon every new
acquisition mainly as a capital for acquiring more.

"You are a man like all of us, Alexander" (said the naked Indian to him),
"except that you abandon your home like a meddlesome destroyer, to
invade the most distant regions; enduring hardship yourself, and
inflicting hardship upon others."

Now, how an empire thus boundless and heterogeneous, such as no prince
has ever yet realized, could have been administered with any superior
advantages to subjects, it would be difficult to show.

The mere task of acquiring and maintaining--of keeping satraps and
tribute-gatherers in authority as well as in subordination--of
suppressing resistances ever liable to recur in regions distant by
months of march--would occupy the whole life of a world-conqueror,
without leaving any leisure for the improvements suited to peace
and stability, if we give him credit for such purposes in theory.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 40: From Chapter LVIII of the "History of Greece." Altho several
histories of Greece have been written since Grote's, his work "still
remains in some respects the greatest," says A.

D. Lindsay, his latest editor. Grote, in a sense, stands to Greece as
Gibbon to the Roman Empire.

He depended mainly on the literary sources, archæology in his day
having done little to widen knowledge. His work is therefore defective
in its earlier parts, but from the sixth century down, when the
literary sources begin, he is "still almost as valuable as ever."]
[Footnote 41: The expedition to Sicily of which, as recorded by Thucydides,
two notable incidents are given in Volume I of this collection.]
[Footnote 42: Alcibiades was a leader of the party which had favored
the expedition, and which prevailed at last over bitter opposition.]

[Footnote 43: From Chapter XCIV of the "History of Greece." Alexander's
death, which took place at Babylon in 323 B.C., was due to a fever,
which followed a carouse and lasted twelve days.]

[Footnote 44: This battle was fought In 338 B.C. between Philip of
Macedon, Alexander the Great's father, and the combined forces of Boeotia
and Athens.]
[Footnote 45: The Sea of Azoff in ancient times bore this name.]

THOMAS CARLYLE

Born in 1795, died in 1881; educated in Edinburgh; schoolmaster at
Kirkcaldy in 1816; wrote for cyclopedias in Edinburgh; became a
private tutor in 1822; visited London and Paris in 1824-25; married
Jane Welsh in 1826; lived at Craigenputtoch in 1828-34, settled at
Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London, in 1834; elected Lord Rector of Edinburgh
University in 1866; his "Life of Schiller," published in 1825;
"Sartor Resartus" in 1833, "The French Revolution" in 1837, "Heroes
and Hero Worship" in 1841, "Oliver Cromwell" in 1845, "Frederick
the Great" in 1858-65.

I
CHARLOTTE CORDAY[46]

Never was Republic One and Indivisible at a lower ebb.

Amid dim ferment, History specially notices one thing: in the lobby of the
Maison de l'Intendance, where busy Deputies are coming and going, a young
Lady with an aged valet, taking grave graceful leave of Deputy Barbaroux.
She is of stately Norman figure: in her twenty-fifth year; of beautiful
still countenance: her name is Charlotte Corday, heretofore styled D'Armans,
while Nobility still was. Barbaroux has given her a note to Deputy
Duperret,--him who once drew his sword in the effervescence. Apparently
she will to Paris on some errand? "She was a Republican before the
Revolution, and never wanted energy."

A completeness, a decision is in this fair female Figure: "By energy
she means the spirit that will prompt one to sacrifice himself for
his country."

What if she, this fair young Charlotte, had emerged from her secluded
stillness, suddenly like a Star; cruel-lovely, with half-angelic,
half-demonic splendor; to gleam for a moment, and in a moment be
extinguished; to be held in memory, so bright complete was she,
through long centuries!

--Quitting Cimmerian Coalitions without, and the dim-simmering twenty-five
million within, History will look fixedly at this one fair Apparition
of a Charlotte Corday; will note whither Charlotte moves, how the
little Life burns forth so radiant, then vanishes swallowed of the
Night.

With Barbaroux's Note of Introduction, and slight stock of luggage, we see
Charlotte on Tuesday the 9th of July seated in the Caen Diligence, with
a place for Paris. None takes farewell of her, wishes her Good-journey:
her Father will find a line left, signifying that she is gone to
England, that he must pardon her, and forget her.

The drowsy Diligence lumbers along; amid drowsy talk of Politics, and praise
of the Mountain; in which she mingles not: all night, all day, and
again all night.

On Thursday, not long before noon, we are at the bridge of Neuilly;
here is Paris with her thousand black domes, the goal and purpose
of thy journey!

Arrived at the Inn de la Providence in the Rue des Vieux Augustins,
Charlotte demands a room; hastens to bed; sleeps all afternoon and
night, till the morrow morning.

On the morrow morning, she delivers her Note to Duperret. It relates to
certain Family Papers which are in the Minister of the Interior's
hands; which a Nun at Caen, an old Convent friend of Charlotte's,
has need of; which Duperret shall assist her in getting: this then
was Charlotte's errand to Paris?

She has finished this, in the course of Friday:--yet says nothing of
returning. She has seen and silently investigated several things. The
Convention, in bodily reality, she has seen; what the Mountain is
like.

The living physiognomy of Marat[47] she could not see; he is sick at present,
and confined to home.

About eight on the Saturday morning, she purchases a large sheath-knife
in the Palais Royal; then straightway, in the Place des Victoires,
takes a hackney-coach: "To the Rue de l'École de Médecine, No. 44." It
is the residence of the Citoyen Marat!

--The Citoyen Marat is ill, and cannot be seen; which seems to disappoint
her much. Her business is with Marat, then? Hapless beautiful Charlotte;
hapless squalid Marat!

From Caen in the utmost West, from Neuchâtel in the utmost East, they
two are drawing nigh each other; they two have, very strangely, business
together.

--Charlotte, returning to her Inn, dispatches a short Note to Marat;
signifying that she is from Caen, the seat of rebellion; that she
desires earnestly to see him, and "will put it in his power to do
France a great service."

No answer.
Charlotte writes another Note, still more pressing; sets out with
it by coach, about seven in the evening, herself.

Tired day-laborers have again finished their Week; huge Paris is circling
and simmering, manifold according to its vague wont; this one fair
Figure has decision in it; drives straight,--toward a purpose.

It is yellow July evening, we say, the 13th of the month; eve of the Bastille
day,--when "M.

Marat," four
years ago, in the crowd
  of the Pont Neuf, shrewdly
required of that Besenval
Hussar-party, which
  had such friendly dispositions, "to
dismount, and give up
  their arms, then"; and became notable among Patriot men.

Four years: what a road he has traveled:--and sits now, about half-past
seven of the clock, stewing in slipper-bath; sore afflicted; ill of
Revolution Fever,--of what other malady this History had rather
not name.

Excessively sick and worn, poor man: with precisely eleven-pence-half-penny
of ready-money, in paper; with slipper-bath; strong three-footed
stool for writing on, the while; and a squalid--Washer-woman, one may call
her: that is his civic establishment in Medical-School Street; thither
and not elsewhither has his road led him.

Not to the reign of Brotherhood and Perfect Felicity: yet surely on
the way toward that?--Hark, a rap again! A musical woman's voice,
refusing to be rejected: it is the Citoyenne who would do France
a service.

Marat, recognizing from within, cries, Admit her. Charlotte Corday is
admitted.

Citoyen Marat, I am from Caen the seat of rebellion, and wished to speak
with you.--Be seated, _mon enfant_.

Now what are the Traitors doing at Caen? What Deputies are at
Caen?--Charlotte names some Deputies. "Their heads shall fall within a
fortnight," croaks the eager People's-friend, clutching his tablets to
write: Barbaroux, Pétion, writes he with bare shrunk arm, turning aside
in the bath:

Pétion, and Louvet, and--Charlotte has drawn her knife from the sheath;
plunges it with one sure stroke, into the writer's heart.

"_A moi chère amie_ (Help, dear)!" no more could the Death-choked
say or shriek. The helpful Washer-woman running in--there is no Friend
of the People, or Friend of the Washer-woman, left; but his life with a
groan gushes out, indignant, to the shades below!

And so Marat, People's-friend, is ended; the lone Stylites has got
hurled down suddenly from his pillar--_whitherward_ He that made
him knows.

Patriot Paris may sound triple and tenfold, in dole and wail; re-echoed by
patriot France; and the Convention, "Chabot pale with terror,
declaring that they are to be all assassinated," may decree him
Pantheon Honors, Public Funeral, Mirabeau's dust making way for
him; and Jacobin Societies, in lamentable oratory, summing up his
character, parallel him to One, whom they think it honor to call
"the good Sans-culotte,"--whom we name not here; also a Chapel may
be made, for the urn that holds his Heart, in the Place du Carrousel;
and new-born children be named Marat; and Lago-di-Como Hawkers bake
mountains of stucco into unbeautiful Busts; and David paint his
Picture, or Death-Scene; and such other Apotheosis take place as
the human genius, in these circumstances, can devise: but Marat
returns no more to the light of this Sun.

One sole circumstance we have read with clear sympathy, in the old Moniteur
Newspaper: how Marat's Brother comes from Neuchâtel to ask of the
Convention, "that the deceased Jean-Paul Marat's musket be given
to him."

For Marat too had a brother and natural affections; and was wrapped
once in swaddling-clothes, and slept safe in a cradle like the rest of
us. Ye children of men!--A sister of his, they say, lives still to
this day in Paris.

As for Charlotte Corday, her work is accomplished; the recompense
of it is near and sure.

The _chère amie_, and the neighbors of the house, flying at her,
she "overturns some movables," intrenches herself till the gendarmes
arrive; then quietly surrenders; goes quietly to the Abbaye Prison:
she alone quiet, all Paris sounding, in wonder, in rage or admiration,
round her.

Duperret is put in arrest, on account of her; his Papers sealed,--which
may lead to consequences. Fauchet, in like manner; though Fauchet had
not so much as heard of her.
Charlotte, confronted with these two Deputies, praises the grave firmness
of Duperret, censures the dejection of Fauchet.

On Wednesday morning the thronged Palais de Justice and Revolutionary
Tribunal can see her face; beautiful and calm: she dates it "fourth
day of the Preparation of Peace."

A strange murmur ran through the Hall, at sight of her; you could
not say of what character.

Tinville has his indictments and tape-papers: the cutler of the Palais
Royal will testify that he sold her the sheath-knife; "All these
details are needless," interrupted Charlotte; "it is I that killed Marat."
By whose instigation?--"By no one's."

"What tempted you then?" "His crimes. I killed one man," added she,
raising her voice extremely (_extrêmement_), as they went on with their
questions, "I killed one man to save a hundred thousand; a villain
to save innocents; a savage wild-beast to give repose to my country.

I was a Republican before the Revolution; I never wanted energy."

There is therefore nothing to be said. The public gazes astonished: the
hasty limners sketch her features, Charlotte not disapproving: the men of
law proceed with their formalities. The doom is Death as a murderess.
To her Advocate she gives thanks; in gentle phrase, in high-flown
classical spirit.

To the Priest they send her she gives thanks; but needs not any shriving,
any ghostly or other aid from him.

On this same evening, therefore, about half-past seven o'clock,
from the gate of the Conciergerie, to a City all on tip-toe, the
fatal Cart issues; seated on it a fair young creature, sheeted in
red smock of Murderess; so beautiful, serene, so full of life;
journeying toward death,--alone amid the World.

Many take off their hats, saluting reverently; for what heart but
must be touched? Others growl and howl.

Adam Lux, of Mentz, declares that she is greater than Brutus; that
it were beautiful to die with her; the head of this young man seems
turned.

At the Place de la Révolution, the countenance of Charlotte wears the
same still smile.

The executioners proceed to bind her feet; she resists, thinking it meant
as an insult; on a word of explanation, she submits with cheerful apology.
As the last act, all being now ready, they take the neckerchief
from her neck, a blush of maidenly shame overspreads her fair face
and neck; the cheeks were still tinged with it when the executioner
lifted the severed head, to show it to the people.

"It is most true," says Forster, "that he struck the cheek insultingly;
for I saw it with my eyes; the Police imprisoned him for it."

In this manner have the Beautifullest and the Squalidest come in collision,
and extinguished one another.

Jean-Paul Marat and Marie-Anne Charlotte Corday both, suddenly, are
no more.

"Day of the Preparation of Peace"? Alas, how were peace possible or
preparable, while for example, the hearts of lovely Maidens, in their
convent-stillness, are dreaming not of Love-paradises and the light
of Life, but of Codrus's-sacrifices and Death well-earned?

That twenty-five million hearts have got to such temper, this _is_ the
Anarchy; the soul of it lies in this, whereof not peace can be the
embodiment!

The death of Marat, whetting old animosities tenfold, will be worse
than any life.

O ye hapless Two, mutually extinctive, the Beautiful and the Squalid,
sleep ye well,--in the Mother's bosom that bore you both!

This is the History of Charlotte Corday; most definite, most
complete:
angelic-demonic: like a Star!

II
THE BLESSEDNESS OF WORK[48]

For there is perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in Work, were he
never so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always
hope in a man that actually and earnestly works: in Idleness alone
is there perpetual despair.

Work, never so Mammonish, mean, _is_ in communication with Nature; the
real desire to get Work done will itself lead one more and more
to truth, to Nature's appointments and regulations, which are truth.

The latest Gospel in this world is, Know thy work and do it. "Know
thyself": long enough has that poor "self" of thine tormented thee;
thou wilt never get to "know" it, I believe! Think it not thy business,
this of knowing thyself; thou art an unknowable individual:
know what thou canst work at; and work at it like a Hercules!

That will be thy better plan.

It has been written, "An endless significance lies in Work"; a man
perfects himself by working.
"Pomp," she said, "I can't bear to look at those animals another minute!
This is the last number, and I'm going out. I'll wait for you right by
the door, just where we came into the tent."

Pompton looked at the child, kindly. Her face was white, and he saw that
it really distressed her to watch the wild animals.

"Very well, Miss Marjorie," he said; "it's but a few steps, so go on, if
you like, and stay just outside the door until we come. Don't wander
away now."

"No, Pompton, I won't wander away, but I must get away from here."

Marjorie left the box, and went quietly out of the door of the tent. It
was only a few steps, as their box was very near the entrance.

There was a bench just outside the door, and the little girl sat down
upon it, delighted to be away from the sights she did not care for. The
fresh air and bright sunshine brought the color back to her cheeks, and
she looked around her with interest. There was little to see, for the
audience were all inside the great tent, and the performers were either
on the stage or in their own dressing rooms. A pleasant-faced attendant
spoke to her, and asked where her people were.

"They're inside," answered Marjorie, "they're coming out in a few
moments, but I didn't like this act, and I'm going to wait for them
here."

"All right, little one; sit there as long as you like. I'll be about here
all the time, and if you want anything, you call me. My name's Bill."

"Thank you," said Marjorie, and Bill went off whistling. He was a big,
burly young man, with a kind voice and manner, and he seemed to be a
hard-working circus hand. He was clearing up the place, and once in a
while he glanced at Marjorie, as if to make sure she was all right.

Marjorie sat still on the bench, her thoughts all on the performances she
had seen. She wondered if the circus people were like other people, for
they seemed to her to be of a different race.

As she was thinking, a young girl came out of a small tent nearby. She
had a long cloak wrapped round her, but her gaily-dressed hair with
silver stars pinned in it, made Marjorie feel sure she was one of the
performers. She had a very pretty face, and she smiled pleasantly at
Marjorie, as she said, "What are you doing here, little girl?"

"I'm waiting for my people," said Marjorie. "They're coming out in a
minute, but I couldn't stand those fierce animals any longer."

"How funny," said the young lady, and she sat down in the seat beside
Marjorie. "Do you know I always shiver when I look at the wild animals,
too. I've been with the circus a year, and I can't get used to those
lions and tigers. I always think they're going to spring at me, though I
know perfectly well they're not. Is that the way you feel?"

"Yes, I feel just like that, and I know it's silly, but I can't help it.
What do you do in the circus?"

The girl partly flung open her long cloak, and disclosed her costume of
spangled pink satin.

"I'm one of the trapeze performers; you probably saw me swing this
afternoon."

"Oh, are you really one of those swinging ladies? Do tell me about it,
won't you? Don't you get dizzy, swinging through the air upside down?"

"No, we never get dizzy; that would never do! Why, we'd fall and break
our necks, and I assure you we don't want to do that!"

"Don't you ever fall?"

"Oh, of course accidents have happened, but much more rarely than most
people think. Trapeze performers are a very careful lot, and we seldom
have an accident."

"Are all those trapeze people your family?" asked Marjorie, for the
troupe was billed as one family.

"Many of them are, but not all. I have one sister who is an acrobat. She
is really one of the best I ever saw for her age. She's only twelve, and
she can do wonderful feats for such a child."

"I'm twelve," said Marjorie, smiling, "but my brother says I'm too fat to
do anything like that."

"Yes, you are," and the young lady smiled, showing her even, white teeth.
She was a very pretty girl, and had a sweet, refined voice, which
surprised Marjorie, as she had not thought circus people were like this.

"You do weigh too much to be very agile; my sister is slender, but very
muscular. Would you like to see her? She's right over there in our tent,
with Mother."

"Oh, I'd love to see her, but I mustn't go away from here, for I told
Pomp where to find me. He'll be out soon."

"Yes, the performance will be over in about five minutes. But I'd like
you to see my sister. Her name is Vivian, and she's so sweet and pretty!
But of course if you think you'd better stay here, I don't want to
persuade you. I must go back now myself. We're really not allowed out
here at this time."

Marjorie wanted very much to go in to the tent with the young lady, and
to see the little sister, and she wondered if she could in any way get
word to Pompton telling him where she was. Just then Bill came round that
way again, and smiled at her.

"Oh, Bill," cried Marjorie, impulsively, "you said if I wanted anything
to ask you. Now I want to go into the tent with this lady,--she says
I may,--and won't you please go in the big tent, and tell my people where
I've gone? You can't miss them, they're in Box number five. An Englishman
named Pompton, who is our chauffeur,--and three children with him. Will
you, Bill, 'cause I want to see this lady's little sister?"

"Sure, I'll 'tend to it, Miss. They won't let me in myself, but I'll fix
it with the doorman, and it'll be all right. Why, bless you, the tent
isn't a step away. Run along with Mademoiselle Cora."

"Is that your name? What a pretty name," said Marjorie, and giving
Mademoiselle Cora her hand, the two crossed over to the little tent.


CHAPTER XVII

LITTLE VIVIAN


It was about ten minutes later when Pompton and his three charges came
out of the circus tent. There was a great crowd, and not seeing Marjorie
at first, Pompton waited until most of the people had gone away, and then
began to look around for her.

"I know she wouldn't go very far away," said King. "She must be quite
near here."

"I'm not so sure," said Kitty. "You know how Marjorie runs off if she
chooses, without thinking of other people."

"I'm greatly worried, Master King," said Pompton. "I suppose I ought not
to have let the child come out here alone. But she was so anxious to
come, and she promised she'd stay right here by the door. I couldn't come
with her, and look after the rest of you at the same time now, could I?"

"Of course you couldn't, Pompton," said Kitty. "You did quite right. And
I don't believe Marjorie is very far away; I think she'll be back in a
minute or two."

But they waited several minutes, and the people who had been in the
circus tent all went away. The grounds about were entirely cleared, and
save for a few workmen, there was no one in sight. Uncertain what to do,
Pompton appealed to the doorman, who just then came out with his hands
full of tickets.

"Do you know anything about a little girl, about twelve years old, who
came out of the tent a short time ago?" asked Pompton.

"Naw," returned the man, curtly, paying little attention to the inquiry.

"But you must have seen her come out," said King. "She came out alone,
before the performance was over. She had on a long tan-colored coat."

"Aw, that kid? Yes, I seen her, but I don't know where she went to."

"But we must find her! She's my sister!" said Kitty, and the tears came
into her eyes.

The doorman looked at Pompton. "You ought to keep yer kids together, an'
not let yer party get sep'rated."

"It wasn't Pompton's fault at all!" cried King, indignantly. "My sister
came out here to wait for us, and of course she's around here somewhere.
She must be in one of the tents. May we go and look for her?"

"Sure! Go where you like. I s'pose she's pokin' around somewhere to see
what's goin' on."

"Of course she's in one of the tents," said Kitty, brightening at the
idea. "Where shall we look first, King?"

Just then the man named Bill came along.

"Hello, youngsters," he said. "Lookin' fer that kid sister of yours? She
told me to tell you where she'd gone, but, bless my soul, I forgot all
about it!"

"Oh, where is she?" cried Kitty, clasping her hands, and looking up at
Bill with pleading eyes.

"There, there, little one! There ain't no use gettin' weepy about it.
Sister's all right. She just went in that there tent with Mademoiselle
Cora."

Bill pointed to the tent, and King and Kitty made a dash for it.

They fairly burst in at the door, and sure enough, there was Marjorie
sitting on a big packing box, watching a little girl who was performing
most remarkable athletic feats.

"Oh, hello," cried Marjorie, "I'm so glad you've come! Just sit down here
beside me, and watch Vivian. Mademoiselle Cora, this is my brother and
sister."

King pulled off his cap, and felt a little uncertain as to what sort of
etiquette this very strange situation demanded. But he bowed politely,
and as Mademoiselle Cora smiled, and asked the two newcomers to be
seated, and as there were plenty of packing boxes, King and Kitty sat
down.

"This is Vivian," said Marjorie, waving her hand toward the little
acrobat, who was turning double somersaults with lightning rapidity.
"She's only twelve, isn't she wonderful?"

The experience was so novel, it is scarcely to be wondered at that King
and Kitty fell under the spell, as Marjorie had done, and the three sat
breathlessly watching Vivian.

Mademoiselle Cora smiled at the enraptured audience, and in a far corner
of the tent sat a placid-looking woman knitting a shawl. This was the
mother of the two girls, but she took little interest in the visitors,
and except for an occasional glance at them, devoted herself to her
knitting.

After waiting a few moments, and seeing that the children did not
reappear, Pompton decided to go into the tent himself. He hesitated about
taking Rosamond in, but there was no help for it, so carrying the child
in his arms, he pushed aside the canvas flap which formed the tent door,
and stepped inside.

"My word!" he exclaimed, as he saw the youthful performer, and the
interested audience. "You children are the most surprising! I think you
had better come away now."

"I think so, too," remarked Vivian's mother, looking up for a moment from
her knitting. "Are there many more of you to come?"

"Now don't be uncivil, Mother," said Cora, with her pretty smile. "It
does no harm for these children to see Vivian perform. You know she
wasn't on the programme to-day."

"I'm only a beginner," said Vivian, standing on her feet once more, and
speaking to Marjorie and Kitty. "I've had quite a good deal of training,
and now I'm on the programme afternoons twice a week. Next year I'll be
on every afternoon."

"Do you like it?" asked Kitty, fascinated by this strange child. Vivian
was a pretty little girl, and she wore a garment of pink muslin, shaped
like children's rompers. She wore pink stockings and pink kid sandals,
and her golden hair was short, and curled all over her little head.

"Yes, I like it," replied Vivian, but a wistful look came into her blue
eyes. Gently, almost timidly, she touched Marjorie's pretty coat and
straw hat with her slender little fingers. "I like it,--but I think I'd
rather be a little home-girl like you."

"Cora, send those children away," said the mother, sharply. "They upset
Vivian completely when she sees them."

"I like to see them," said Vivian, and she sat down between Kitty and
Midget. "I like to see your pretty dresses, and real shoes and stockings.
Do you go to school?"

Marjorie felt strangely drawn to this little girl who seemed so to want
the privacy of a home life. She spoke to her very gently. "Yes, Vivian,
we all go to school,--though I don't go to a regular school, do you?"

"No, I don't. Mother and Cora say they'll teach me every day, while we're
on the road, but they never get time. And I have to practise a great
deal."

Marjorie looked around for a piano, and then suddenly realized that
Vivian meant she must practise her gymnastic exercises.

"Come, Miss Marjorie, we must be going," said Pompton, who felt moved
himself by the pathetic face of the little circus girl.

"Well, perhaps you'd better go now," said Cora, who had received
imperative glances from her mother. "But we've enjoyed seeing you, and
we thank you for your call."

Mademoiselle Cora had very polite manners, but she seemed to be under the
rule of her mother, and it was with evident reluctance that she bade the
visitors good-bye.

"I'll give you my picture," said Vivian to Marjorie, as they parted,
"because I want you to remember me. I would like to have your picture,
but Mother won't let me have little girls' photographs. She thinks it
makes me feel envious to see pictures of little home-girls."

"Well, I'll give you something to remember me by," said Marjorie,
impulsively, and she took from her neck a string of blue beads, and
clasped it round Vivian's throat.

"Oh, thank you," said Vivian, with sparkling eyes. "I shall wear them
always, and love them because you gave them to me. Good-bye, dear,
_dear_ little home-girl!"

The tears came into Marjorie's eyes at the tremor in Vivian's voice, and
she kissed her affectionately, and then bidding good-bye to Mademoiselle
Cora they followed Pompton out of the tent.

They were all rather silent as they trudged along to the trolley-car, and
then Kitty said slowly, "Isn't it awful to be like that? I suppose she
never has any home-life at all."

"Of course she hasn't, Miss Kitty, as she has no home," said Pompton;
"it's wicked to put a child like that in a circus, it certainly is! She's
a sweet little girl, and her sister is a fine young lady, too."

"The mother is horrid," said King. "She was awful cross about our being
there."

"Well," said Kitty, who sometimes saw deeper than the rest, "you mustn't
blame her too much. Couldn't you see she didn't want us there, because
just the sight of happy home-children makes little Vivian feel sorry that
she has to live in a circus?"

"Yes, that was it," said Marjorie. "I suppose they haven't any other way
to earn their living."

The children could scarcely wait to get home to tell their parents of
this wonderful experience.

They found Mr. and Mrs. Maynard waiting for them at the hotel, and
wondering a little because they were late.

"Oh," cried Marjorie, flinging herself into her mother's arms, "we've had
a most 'stonishing time! We visited a little circus girl in her own tent,
and here's her picture!"

Marjorie held up to her mother's amazed view the picture of little
Vivian. It was taken in stage costume, and represented Vivian in one of
her clever acrobatic feats. Her pretty child-face wore a sweet smile, and
the whole effect of the photograph was dainty and graceful. Across a
corner was scrawled the word "Vivian" in large, childish letters.

"Did you buy this?" asked Mrs. Maynard, knowing that circus performers
often sold their photographs.

"Oh, no, indeed, Mother; she gave it to me. And what do you think,
Mother? The poor little thing has to live in a tent, and she wants to
live in a home! And it made her awful sad to see us, 'cause we have a
home, and we can wear regular dresses and shoes, and she has to wear
queer bloomer things,--and sandals on her feet!"

"But I don't understand, Marjorie," said Mrs. Maynard. "How do you know
all this? Did you talk with the child?"

"Oh, yes, Mother; we went in her tent, and saw her mother and sister. I
don't think they mind being in the circus so much. But Vivian feels just
awful about it! And she's such a sweet little thing; and, Mother, I have
the loveliest plan! Don't you think it would be nice for us to 'dopt
her, and let her live with us?"

"Midget, what are you talking about?" and Mrs. Maynard's face showed so
plainly her dissent to the proposition that Marjorie jumped out of her
lap, and ran across to her father, in the hope of better success.

"Now, Father," she said as she threw her arms around his neck, and drew
his arms around her; "do please pay 'tention to my plan! You know we
ought to do some good in this world, and what _could_ be better than
rescuing a poor little sad circus girl, and letting her live in our own
happy home with us? It wouldn't cost much,--she could have half of my
clothes, and half of Kitty's,--we could each get along with half, I know.
And we could both eat less,--that is, I could,--I don't know about Kit.
But anyway, Father, won't you think about it?"

"Yes, dear," said Mr. Maynard, looking fondly at his impetuous daughter;
"I'll think about it right now,--and I'll express my thoughts aloud, as I
think them. I think, first, that you're a generous and kind-hearted
little girl to want to give this poor child a home. And I think next,
that having made your suggestion, you must leave it to Mother and me to
decide the matter. And our decision is that four children are quite
enough for this family, and we don't want to adopt any more! Besides
this, Marjorie, it is far from likely that the little girl would be
allowed to come to us. She is being trained for her profession, and
though I feel sorry that the child is not happy, yet she is with her own
people, and they are responsible for the shaping of her life and career.
Just now, you are carried away by sympathy for the little girl, and I
don't blame you at all, for it is a sad case. But you must trust your
father's judgment, when he tells you that he does not think it wise
to follow out your suggestion."

Marjorie looked disappointed, but she well knew that when her father
talked thus seriously, there was no use in pursuing the subject; so she
only said, "All right, Father; I know you know best. But it does seem too
bad for Vivian not to have any home pleasures, when I have so many!"

"It does seem too bad, Marjorie, but since you can't help her in any way,
turn your thoughts to feeling glad and grateful that you yourself have a
happy home, and can wear button boots."

Marjorie laughed at her father's last words, but she knew that "button
boots" stood for the civilized dress of the home-child, as contrasted
with the stage trappings of the little Vivian.

So she put the photograph away among her treasures, and often looked at
it, and wondered if Vivian still longed for the sort of happy home-life
that meant so much to Marjorie.


CHAPTER XVIII

IN BOSTON


The next day the Maynards started for Boston. That is, their destination
was Boston, but Mr. and Mrs. Maynard had decided to go by very short
stages, and stop several times on the way.

And so they spent one night at New London, two or three more at Newport
and Narragansett Pier, and so on to Boston.

It was too early in the season for the summer crowds at the watering
places, but though the gay life was absent, they enjoyed their stay at
each place.

It was all so novel to the children that the days passed like a swiftly
moving panorama, and they went from one scene to another, always sure of
experiencing some new pleasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

One warm and pleasant afternoon the big car swung into Boston, and
deposited its occupants at a pleasant hotel on a broad and beautiful
avenue.

As Mr. Maynard registered at the office, the clerk handed him a budget of
mail. It was not unusual for him to find letters awaiting him at the
various hotels, but this time there were also four post-cards for the
children.

"Who can have written to us?" exclaimed Marjorie, as she took hers. "I
don't know this hand-writing; I'm sure I never saw it before."

She turned the card over, and saw a picture of the State House, one of
Boston's principal places of interest. Beneath the picture was written:

"Please come and visit me;
I am the place you want to see."

"How funny," said Marjorie. "Who could have sent it? Is it an
advertisement, Father?"

"No, Midget, The State House doesn't have to advertise itself! What is
yours, King?"

"Mine is a picture of the Public Library, and this has a verse under it,
too. It says:

"How do you think you like my looks?
Beautiful pictures and wonderful books!"

"These are lots of fun, whoever sent them," said Kitty. "Listen to mine.
It's a picture of Faneuil Hall. Under it is written:

"Do not think you have seen all
Until you have visited Faneuil Hall!"

"And Rosy Posy has one, too," said Marjorie. "Let sister read it, dear."

"Yes, Middy wead my post-card," and the baby handed it over.

"This is a lovely one," said Marjorie. "See, it's all bright-colored
flowers, and it says:

"The Boston Common's bright and gay,
With tulips in a brave array."

"Sure enough," said Mrs. Maynard, "the tulips must be in bloom now, and
to-morrow we must go to see them."

"Oh, what lovely times we are having!" cried Marjorie. "How long are we
going to stay in Boston, Father?"

"Long enough, at any rate, to see all these sights suggested by your
post-cards. And I may as well tell you, children, that the cards were
sent by Mr. Bryant, a friend of mine in Cambridge; and we are going to
visit at his house when we leave here."

"Have we ever seen him?" asked Marjorie.

"Only when you were very small children; not since you can remember. But
they are delightful people, and indeed are distant cousins of your
mother. I can assure you you'll have a good time at their home."

"We seem to have good times everywhere," said Marjorie, with a happy
little sigh of content. "This has been the most beautiful May ever was!
And a real Maynard May, because we've all been together all the time!"

"May for the Maynards, and the Maynards for May," sang King, and they all
repeated the line, which was one of their favorite mottoes.

"Maytime is a lovely time, anyway, isn't it, Father?" said Marjorie.

"Yes, unless it rains," Mr. Maynard replied, smiling.

"Well, we've had awful little rain since we started," commented Marjorie;
"just a little shower now and then, and that's all."

"Maytime is playtime for us this year, sure enough," said her father; "I
hope you children realize that these are all Ourdays, and you're piling
up enough of them to last for two or three years ahead."

"Oh, they don't count that way, do they?" cried Kitty, in such dismay
that her father laughed.

"Don't worry, Kitsie," he said. "I guess we can squeeze out a few Ourdays
in the future. Meantime, enjoy your Maytime while you may."

And this the Maynard family proceeded to do. They spent several days in
Boston, seeing the sights of the town, and making little excursions to
the suburbs and nearby places of interest.

They visited the Public Library, and studied the wonderful paintings
there. They went to the State House, and Faneuil Hall, and Mr. Maynard
showed the children so many interesting relics, and taught them so much
interesting New England history that Marjorie declared he was quite as
good a teacher as Miss Hart.

They spent much time in the Public Gardens and on the Common, for the
Maynard children dearly loved to be out of doors, and the flowers in
their masses of bloom were enchanting.

Indeed, there was so much of interest to see that Marjorie felt almost
sorry when the time came to go to Cambridge for their visit at Mr. and
Mrs. Bryant's. But her father told her that on their return from
Cambridge they could, if they wished, spend a few more days in Boston.

And so, one afternoon, the Maynards drove away from the hotel in their
car, and crossed the Charles River to Cambridge.

The Bryants' home was a fine, large estate not far from Harvard College.

"Another college!" exclaimed Marjorie, as they passed the University
Buildings. "Can we go through this one, Father, as we did through Yale?"

"Yes," said Mr. Maynard, "and then King can make a choice of which he
wants to attend."

"I think I know already," returned King; "but I won't tell you yet, for I
may change my mind."

As they turned in at the gateway of the Bryants' home they found
themselves on a long avenue, bordered with magnificent trees. This led to
the house, and on the veranda their host and hostess stood awaiting them.

"You dear people! I'm so glad to see you; jump right out, and come in,"
exclaimed Mrs. Bryant, as the car stopped. She was a pretty, vivacious
little lady, with cordial hospitality beaming from her gray eyes, and Mr.
Bryant, a tall, dark-haired man, was no less enthusiastic in his
greetings.

"Hello, Ed," he cried. "Mighty glad to see you here! Hope we can give you
a good time! I know we can make it pleasant for you grownups, but it's
the kiddies I'm thinking about. I told Ethel she must just devote herself
to their entertainment all the time they're here. Because nature is not
lavish of her beauties; they are widely scattered and occasionally
displayed, to be selected with care and gathered with difficulty....

Art is not inferior to nature for poetical purposes. What makes a
regiment of soldiers a more noble object of view than the same
mass of mob?

Their arms, their dresses, their banners, and the art and artificial
symmetry of their position and movements. A Highlander's plaid, a Mussulman's
turban, and a Roman toga are more poetical than the tattooed or
untattooed New Sandwich savages, altho they were described by William
Wordsworth himself like the "idiot in his glory."

I have seen as many mountains as most men, and more fleets than the
generality of landsmen; and, to my mind, a large convoy with a few
sail of the line to conduct them is as noble and as poetical a
prospect as all that inanimate nature can produce.

I prefer the "mast of some great admiral," with all its tackle, to the
Scotch fir or the Alpine tarnen, and think that more poetry has been
made out of it.

In what does the infinite superiority of Falconer's "Shipwreck" over
all other shipwrecks consist? In his admirable application of the
terms of his art; in a poet sailor's description of the sailor's
fate.

These very terms, by his application, make the strength and reality of his
poem. Why? because he was a poet, and in the hands of a poet art will
not be found less ornamental than nature.

It is precisely in general nature, and in stepping out of his element,
that Falconer fails; where he digresses to speak of ancient Greece,
and "such branches of learning."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 29: Letter to his half-sister, Augusta, dated "Harrow,
Saturday, 11th November, 1804."

Byron was then in his seventeenth year. Byron's sister, seven days after
receiving this letter, wrote to Hanson, his solicitor, a letter which
resulted in Byron's spending his Christmas holidays with Hanson
instead of with his mother.

Augusta told Hanson she had talked with Lord Carlisle, a relative
of Byron's, and by his advice had requested Hanson to receive her
brother as his guest.

Of the trouble between her brother and his mother she said: "As they can
not agree, they had better be separated, for such eternal scenes of
wrangling are enough to spoil the very best temper and disposition in the
universe."]
[Footnote 30: _Sic._ The name was formerly spelled this way and the
last syllable pronounced _rone._]
[Footnote 31: Letter dated "Pisa, November 17, 1821," five years
after the separation, and addrest "To the care of the Hon.

Mrs. Leigh [his sister], London." After he went abroad in 1816, Byron
and his wife never met again; nor did he ever return to England,
except when dead, for burial.]

[Footnote 32: Letter dated "Pisa, Jan. 12, 1822."]
[Footnote 33: Byron's "Cain" was inscribed to Scott.]

[Footnote 34: From the reply to Bowles. William L. Bowles, clergyman,
poet and antiquarian, was born in 1762, and died in 1850.

In 1806 he had issued an edition of Pope in ten volumes, to which
was prefixt a sketch of the poet's life, with severe criticisms on
his poetry.

These criticisms gave rise to a controversy, famous in its time and
long afterward, and to which Byron's article was a notable
contribution.]

[Footnote 35: Cape Colonna (anciently called Sunium) lies at the
southeastern end of Attica and is a promontory.]

[Footnote 36: The reference is to William Falconer, second mate of a ship
in the Levantine trade, which was wrecked during a voyage from
Alexandria to Venice.

Falconer became a poet, and his work, "The Shipwreck," was founded on his
own experience.]

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY

Born in 1792, drowned at Spezia, Italy, in 1822; educated at Eton
and Oxford, being expelled from the latter for publishing a pamphlet
on atheism; married Harriet Westbrook in 1811; met Mary Woolstonecraft
in 1814, and went to live with her in Switzerland, abandoning
Harriet; returned to England in 1815 and settled near Windsor Forest;
joined Byron in Switzerland in 1816; in the same year, Harriet
having drowned herself, he married Mary; his body consumed on a
funeral pyre at Spezia in the presence of Leigh Hunt, Byron and
Trelawny; published "Queen Mab" in 1813; "Alastor" in 1816; "Prometheus
Unbound" in 1820; his works collected by his wife in 1830.

I
IN DEFENSE OF POETRY[37]

The functions of the poetical faculty are twofold; by one it creates
new materials of knowledge, and power, and pleasure; by the other
it engenders in the mind a desire to reproduce and arrange them
according to a certain rhythm and order which may be called the
beautiful and the good.

The cultivation of poetry is never more to be desired than at periods
when, from an excess of the selfish and calculating principle, the
accumulation of the materials of external life exceed the quantity
of the power of assimilating them to the internal laws of human
nature.

The body has then become too unwieldy for that which animates it.

Poetry is indeed something divine. It is at once the center and circumference
of knowledge; it is that which comprehends all science, and that to which
all science must be referred.

It is at the same time the root and blossom of all other systems of
thought; it is that from which all spring, and that which adorns
all; and that which, if blighted, denies the fruit and the seed, and
withholds from the barren world the nourishment and the succession
of the scions of the tree of life.

It is the perfect and consummate surface and bloom of all things; it is as
the odor and the color of the rose to the texture of the elements
which compose it, as the form and splendor of unfaded beauty to the
secrets of anatomy and corruption.

What were virtue, love, patriotism, friendship--what were the scenery
of this beautiful universe which we inhabit--what were our consolations
on this side of the grave--and what were our aspirations beyond
it, if poetry did not ascend to bring light and fire from those
eternal regions where the owl-winged faculty of calculation dare
not ever soar?

Poetry is not like reasoning, a power to be exerted according to the
determination of the will. A man can not say it: "I will compose
poetry." The greatest poet even can not say it; for the mind in creation
is as a fading coal, which some invisible influence, like an
inconstant wind, awakens to transitory brightness; this power arises
from within, like the color of a flower which fades and changes as
it is developed, and the conscious portions of our natures are
unprophetic either of its approach or its departure.

Could this influence be durable in its original purity and force, it is
impossible to predict the greatness of the results; but when
composition begins, inspiration is already on the decline, and the
most glorious poetry that has ever been communicated to the world
is probably a feeble shadow of the original conception of the poet.

I appeal to the greatest poets of the present day, whether it is not an
error to assert that the finest passages of poetry are produced by labor
and study.

The toil and the delay recommended by critics can be justly interpreted to
mean no more than a careful observation of the inspired moments,
and an artificial connection of the space between their suggestions
by the intermixture of conventional expression: a necessity only
imposed by the limitedness of the poetical faculty itself; for
Milton conceived the "Paradise Lost" as a whole before he executed
it in portions.

We have his own authority also for the muse having "dictated" to him the
"unpremeditated song." And let this be an answer to those who allege
the fifty-six various readings of the first line of the "Orlando
Furioso."

Compositions so produced are to poetry what mosaic is to painting.
This instinct and intuition of the poetical faculty is still more
observable in the plastic and pictorial arts; a great statue or
picture grows under the power of the artist as a child in the mother's
womb; and the very mind which directs the hands in formation is
incapable of accounting to itself for the origin, the gradations
or the media of the process.

Poetry is the record of the best and happiest moments of the happiest and
best minds. We are aware of evanescent visitations of thought and
feeling sometimes associated with place or person, sometimes
regarding our own mind alone, and always arising unforeseen and
departing unbidden, but elevating and delightful beyond all expression:
so that even in the desire and the regret they leave, there can not
but be pleasure, participating as it does in the nature of its
object.

It is as it were the interpenetration of a diviner nature through our
own; but its footsteps are like those of a wind over the sea which
the coming calm erases, and whose traces remain only, as on the
wrinkled sand which paves it.

These and corresponding conditions of being are experienced principally
by those of the most delicate sensibility and the most enlarged
imagination; and the state of mind produced by them is at war with
every base desire.

The enthusiasm of virtue, love, patriotism, and friendship is essentially
linked with such emotions; and while they last, self appears as
what it is, an atom to a universe.

Poets are not only subject to these experiences as spirits of the most
refined organization, but they can color all that they combine
with the evanescent hues of this ethereal world; a word, a trait
in the representation of a scene or a passion, will touch the
enchanted chord, and reanimate, in those who have ever experienced
these emotions, the sleeping, the cold, the buried image of the past.

Poetry thus makes immortal all that is best and most beautiful in the
world; it arrests the vanishing apparitions which haunt the
interlunations of life, and veiling them, or in language or in form,
sends them forth among mankind, bearing sweet news of kindred joy
to those with whom their sisters abide--abide, because there is no
portal of expression from the caverns of the spirit which they
inhabit into the universe of things.

Poetry redeems from decay the visitations of the divinity in man.

II
THE BATHS OF CARACALLA[38]
The next most considerable relic of antiquity, considered as a ruin,
is the Thermæ of Caracalla.

These consist of six enormous chambers, above 200 feet in height,
and each enclosing a vast space like that of a field.

There are in addition a number of towers and labyrinthine recesses,
hidden and woven over by the wild growth of clinging ivy.

Never was any desolation more sublime and lovely. The perpendicular
wall of ruin is cloven into steep ravines, filled up with flowering
shrubs, whose thick twisted roots are knotted in the rifts of the
stone, and at every step the aerial pinnacles of shattered stone
group into new combinations of effect, towering above the lofty yet
level walls, as the distant mountains change their aspect to one
traveling rapidly toward the skirts by masses of the fallen ruins,
overturned with the broad leaves of the creeping weeds.

The blue sky canopies it, and is as the everlasting roof of these
enormous halls.

But the most interesting effect remains.

In one of the buttresses that supports an immense and lofty arch "which
bridges the very wings of heaven" are the crumbling remains of an
antique winding staircase, whose sides are open in many places to
the precipice.

This you ascend and arrive on the summit of these piles. There grow on
every side thick entangled wildernesses of myrtle, and the myrletus and
bay and the flowering laurestinus, whose white blossoms are just developed,
the white fig and a thousand nameless plants sown by the wandering winds.
These woods are intersected on every side by paths, like sheep tracks
through the copse wood of steep mountains, which wind to every
part of the immense labyrinth.

From the midst rise those pinnacles and masses, themselves like
masses which have been seen far below.

In one place you wind along a narrow strip of weed-grown ruin: on one
side is the immensity of earth and sky, on the other a narrow
chasm, which is bounded by an arch of enormous size, tinged by the
many colored foliage and blossoms and supporting an irregular pyramid
overgrown like itself with the all-pervading vegetation.

Around rise other crags and other peaks, all arrayed and the deformity
of their vast desolation softened down by the undecaying investiture
of nature.

Come to Rome--it is a scene by which expression
 is overpowered, which words can not
 convey.
 

Still winding up one-half of the shattered pyramids, by the path through
the blooming wood, you come to a little mossy lawn surrounded by
the wild shrubs; it is overgrown with anemones, wall flowers and
violets, whose stalks pierce the starry moss, and with radiant
blue flowers whose name I know not, and which scatter through the
air the divinest odor; which, as you recline under the shade of the
ruin, produces sensations of voluptuous faintness, like the
combinations of sweet music.

The paths still wind on, threading the perplexed windings, other labyrinths,
other lawns, deep dells of wood, and lofty rocks and terrific
chasms.

When I tell you that these ruins cover several acres and that the paths
alone penetrate at least half their extent, your imagination will fill
up all that I am unable to express of the astonishing scene.

III

THE RUINS OF POMPEII[39]

Since you last heard from me we have been to see Pompeii and we are now
waiting for the return of spring weather, to visit, first Pæstum, and
then the islands; after which we shall return to Rome.

I was astonished at the remains of this city. I had no conception of anything
so perfect yet remaining.

My idea of the mode of its destruction was this: first an earthquake
came and shattered it, and unroofed almost all its temples and split its
columns; then a rain of light small pumice-stones fell; then
torrents of boiling water mixt with ashes filled up its crevices.

A wide flat hill from which the city was excavated is now covered with
woods, and you see the tombs and theaters, the temples and houses,
surrounded by uninhabited wilderness.

We entered the town from the sides toward the sea, and first saw two theaters;
one more magnificent than the other, strewn with the ruins of the white
marble which formed their seats and cornices, wrought with deep bold
sculpture. In the front between the stage and the seats is the circular
space occasionally occupied by the chorus. The stage is very narrow
but long and divided from this space by a narrow enclosure parallel
to it, I suppose for the orchestra.

On each side are the Consuls' boxes, and below in the theater of Herculaneum
were found two equestrian statues of excellent workmanship, occupying
the same space as the great bronze lamps did at Drury Lane. The smallest
of the theaters is said to have been comic, tho I should doubt.
From both you see, as you sit on the seats, a prospect of the most
wonderful beauty.

You then pass through ancient streets; they are very narrow and the houses
rather small, but are constructed on an admirable plan, especially for
the climate. The rooms are built round a court, or sometimes two,
according to the extent of the house. In the midst is a fountain sometimes
surrounded with a portico, supported on fluted columns of white stucco;
the floor is paved with mosaics sometimes wrought in imitation of vine
leaves, sometimes in quaint figures, and more or less beautiful
according to the rank of the inhabitant.

There were paintings on all, but most of them have been removed to
decorate the royal museums.

Little winged figures and small ornaments of exquisite elegance yet
remain.

There is an ideal life in the forms of these paintings of an incomparable
loveliness, tho most are evidently the work of very inferior artists.
It seems as if from the atmosphere of mental beauty that surrounds them,
every human being caught a splendor not his own.

In one house you see how the bedrooms were managed: a small sofa
was built up, where the cushions were placed; two pictures, one
representing Diana and Endymion and the other Venus and Mars,
decorate the chamber; and a little niche which contains the statue
of a domestic god.

The floor is composed of a rich mosaic of the rarest marbles, agate, jasper
and porphyry; it looks to the marble fountain and the snow white
columns, whose etablatures strew the floor of the portico they supported.
The houses have only one story, and the apartments, tho not large,
are very lofty.

A great advantage results from this, wholly unknown in our cities.

The public buildings, whose ruins are now forests as it were of
white fluted columns, and which then supported entablatures loaded
with sculpture, were seen on all sides over the roofs of the houses.

This was the excellence of the ancients: their private expenses were
comparatively moderate; the dwelling of one of the chief senators of
Pompeii is elegant indeed, and adorned with the most beautiful
specimens of art, but small.

But their public buildings are everywhere marked by the bold and grand
designs of an unsparing magnificence.

In the little town of Pompeii (it contained about twenty thousand
inhabitants) it is wonderful to see the number and grandeur of their
public buildings.

Another advantage, too, is that in the present case the glorious scenery
around is not shut out, and that unlike the inhabitants of the
Cimmerian ravines of modern cities, the ancient Pompeiian could
contemplate the clouds and the lamps of heaven; could see the moon
rise high behind Vesuvius, and the sun set in the sea, tremulous
with an atmosphere of golden vapor, below Inarnine and Misenum.

We next saw the temples.
"You see," said Cousin Ethel, "everybody else is arranged for. And unless
Marjorie goes with Bertha Baker, the child will have to go alone, for
nobody else is willing to go with her."

"What a disagreeable girl she must be!" said King. "I'm glad I don't have
to go with her."

"But you will have to, King," said Marjorie. "He'll have to push our
cart, won't he, Cousin Ethel?"

"Why, yes, I thought he would do that; but he shan't if he doesn't want
to."

"Oh, I do want to," declared King, agreeably. "I'm not afraid of any
grumpy girl. I'll smile on her so sweetly, she'll _have_ to smile back."
And King gave such an idiotic grin that they all smiled back at him.

"Now," went on Cousin Ethel, briskly, "I thought, Marjorie, you could
have the doll cart, and Kitty could be with May Perry and help sell the
flowers. The flower wagon will be very pretty, and flowers are always
easy to sell."

"So are dolls," said Marjorie. "Can I help you make some. Cousin Ethel,
or are they already made?"

"The more elaborate dolls are being dressed by the ladies of our Club.
But I thought, that if your mother and I and you girls could get to
work to-day, we could make a lot of funny little dolls that I'm sure
would be saleable."

"Let me help, too," said Cousin Jack. "I can make lovely dolls out of
peanuts."

"Nonsense," said his wife, "we can all make peanut dolls. And besides,
Jack, you must get away to your business. Your office boy will think
you're lost, strayed, or stolen."

"I suppose I must," sighed Cousin Jack; "it's awful to be a workingman.
Come on, Ned; want to go in to Boston with me?"

The two men went away, and after a while Cousin Ethel called the children
to come to what she called a Dolly-Bee.

On the table, in the pleasant living room, they found heaps of materials.
Bits of silk and lace and ribbon, to dress little dolls,--and all sort of
things to make dolls of.

King insisted on helping also, for he said he was just as handy about
such things as the girls were. To prove this, he asked Cousin Ethel for a
clothespin, and with two or three Japanese paper napkins, and a gay
feather to stick in its cap, he cleverly evolved a very jolly little
doll, whose features he made with pen and ink on the head of the
clothespin.

And then they made dolls of cotton wadding, and dolls of knitting cotton,
and peanut dolls, and Brownie dolls, and all sorts of queer and odd dolls
which they invented on the spur of the moment.

They made a few paper dolls, but these took a great deal of time, so they
didn't make many. Paper dolls were Kitty's specialty. But she cut them so
carefully, and painted them so daintily, that they were real works of
art, and therefore consumed more time than Cousin Ethel was willing to
let her spend at the work.

"You mustn't tire yourselves out doing these," she admonished them. "I
only want you to work at them as long as you enjoy it."

But the Maynards were energetic young people, and when interested, they
worked diligently; and the result was they accumulated a large number of
dolls to sell at the Festival.

King was given his choice between pushing a tinware cart with another
boy, or pushing the doll cart for the girls.

He chose the latter, "because," said he, "I can't leave Mopsy to the
tender mercies of that grumpy girl. And I don't think tinware is much
fun, anyhow."

"How do we know where to go. Cousin Ethel?" said Marjorie, who was
greatly interested in the affair.

"Oh, you just go out into the streets, and stop at any house you like.
There won't be any procession. Every peddler goes when and where he
chooses, until all his goods are sold."

"Suppose we can't sell them?" said Kitty.

"There's no danger of that. They're all inexpensive wares, and the whole
population of Cambridge is expecting you, and the people are quite ready
to spend their money for the good of the cause"


CHAPTER XX

THE FESTIVAL


Fortunately, the day of the Festival was a perfectly beautiful, balmy,
lovely spring day. The affair had been well-advertised by circulars, and
the residents of Cambridge had laid in a stock of small change, with
which to buy the wares of the itinerant peddlers.

All was bustle and merriment at the Bryant home. The children were to
start from there at about ten o'clock, and they were now getting on
their costumes.

Each peddler was expected to dress appropriately to the character of the
goods he was selling. This was not always an easy matter, but much
latitude was allowed; and so a Greek peddler sold pastry, an Italian
peddler sold peanuts, and an Indian Chief sold baskets and little Indian
trinkets. There were many others, selling notions, fruits, and even fresh
vegetables. One boy trundled a peanut roaster, and another was a vendor
of lemonade.

When ready to start, the Maynard children and their carts presented a
pretty appearance. The dolls were arranged in a light pushcart, borrowed
from the grocer. It was decorated with frills of crêpe paper, and big
paper bows at the corners. In it were more than a hundred dolls, ranging
from the elaborately-dressed French beauties to the funny little puppets
the children had made.

Marjorie and Bertha Baker were themselves dressed to represent dolls.
Marjorie's dress was of pink muslin, frilled with lace, and a broad pink
sash, tied low, with a big bow in the back. A frilled bonnet of pink
muslin and lace crowned her dark curls, and she had been instructed by
Cousin Ethel to walk stiffly, and move jerkily like a jointed doll.
Bertha's costume was exactly like Marjorie's except that it was blue, and
as Bertha's hair was blonde and curly, she looked very like a Bisque
doll. But Bertha's face wore naturally a discontented expression, which
was far less doll-like than Marjorie's smiling countenance.

Mee wields a style as bright and clear as it is concise, and his
sketch and appreciation of the life of the Prime Minister will be read
with interest even by those who may not accept all the views put forward."
But
she was continually complaining that she was tired, or that the sun was
too hot, or that she didn't like their cart as well as some of the
others. Their theaters were all open to the mountains of the sky. Their
columns, the ideal type of a sacred forest, with its roof of
interwoven tracery, admitted the light and wind.

The odor and the freshness of the country penetrated the cities.
King, who pushed the doll-cart, was also dressed like a doll. The boy
looked very handsome, in a black velvet suit with lace ruffles at the
wrists and knees, and long white stockings with black slippers. He was
clever, too, in assuming the character, and walked with stiff, jerky
strides, like a mechanical doll that had just been wound up.

Kitty was a dream of beauty. She was a little flower girl, of course, and
wore the daintiest sort of a Dolly Varden costume. Her overdress of
flowered muslin was caught up at the sides in panniers over a quilted
skirt of light blue satin. A broad-brimmed leghorn hat with a wreath of
roses, and fluttering blue ribbons, sat jauntily on her golden hair. May
Perry, who was Kitty's companion, was costumed the same way, and the boy
who pushed their cart was dressed like a page.

The flower cart held not only bouquets and old-fashioned nosegays, but
little potted plants as well.

Amy hastily endeavored to recall what she were best to say, which might
secure herself from the imminent dangers that surrounded her,
without endangering her husband; and plunging from one thought to
another, amidst the chaos which filled her mind, she could at length,
in answer to the Queen's repeated inquiries in what she sought
protection, only falter out, "Alas!

I know not."
"This is folly, maiden," said Elizabeth impatiently; for there was
something in the extreme confusion of the suppliant which irritated
her curiosity as well as interested her feelings.

"The sick man must tell his malady to the physician; nor are WE
accustomed to ask questions so oft, without receiving an answer."
"I request--I implore--" stammered forth the unfortunate countess--"I
beseech your gracious protection--against--against one Varney."

She choked well-nigh as she uttered the fatal word, which was instantly
caught up by the Queen.

"What, Varney--Sir Richard Varney--the servant of Lord Leicester!

What, damsel, are you to him, or he to you?"
"I--I--was his prisoner--and he practised on my life--and I broke
forth to--to--"
"To throw thyself on my protection, doubtless," said Elizabeth.

"Thou shalt have it--that is, if thou art worthy; for we will sift
this matter to the uttermost.

--Thou art," she said, bending on the countess an eye which seemed designed
to pierce her very inmost soul,--"thou art Amy, daughter of Sir Hugh
Robsart of Lidcote Hall?"
"Forgive me--forgive me--most gracious princess!"

said Amy, dropping once more on her knee from which she had arisen.

"For what should I forgive thee, silly wench?" said Elizabeth; "for being
the daughter of thine own father? Thou art brainsick, surely.
Well, I see I must wring the story from thee by inches: Thou didst
deceive thine old and honored father,--thy look confesses it; cheated
Master Tressilian,--thy blush avouches it; and married this same
Varney."

Amy sprung on her feet, and interrupted the Queen eagerly with--"No, madam,
no: as there is a God above us, I am not the sordid wretch you would
make me! I am not the wife of that contemptible slave--of that
most deliberate villain! I am not the wife of Varney! I would rather be
the bride of Destruction!"
The Queen, overwhelmed in her turn by Amy's vehemence, stood silent
for an instant, and then replied, "Why, God ha' mercy, woman!

I see thou canst talk fast enough when the theme likes thee. Nay,
tell me, woman," she continued, for to the impulse of curiosity
was now added that of an undefined jealousy that some deception had
been practised on her--"tell me, woman,--for by God's day, I WILL
know,--whose wife or whose paramour art thou?

Speak out, and be speedy: thou wert better dally with a lioness than with
Elizabeth."

Urged to this extremity, dragged as it were by irresistible force
to the verge of a precipice which she saw but could not avoid,
permitted not a moment's respite by the eager words and menacing
gestures of the offended Queen,--Amy at length uttered in despair,
"The Earl of Leicester knows it all."

"The Earl of Leicester!" said Elizabeth in utter astonishment.--"The Earl
of Leicester!" she repeated with kindling anger.

--"Woman, thou art set on to this--thou dost belie him--he takes no keep
of such things as thou art.

Thou art suborned to slander the noblest lord, and the truest-hearted
gentleman, in England! But were he the right hand of our trust, or
something yet dearer to us, thou shalt have thy hearing, and that
in his presence.

Come with me--come with me instantly!"
As Amy shrunk back with terror, which the incensed Queen interpreted
as that of conscious guilt, Elizabeth rapidly advanced, seized on
her arm, and hastened with swift and long steps out of the grotto
and along the principal alley of the pleasance, dragging with her
the terrified countess, whom she still held by the arm, and with
utmost exertion could but just keep pace with those of the indignant
Queen.

So when they reached the next house, King said, "Now we'll all go in here
together to sell the dolls; but we won't go until Bertha puts on a sweet
smile. So, smile away, my lady!"

King's merry speech made Bertha laugh, and the dimples came in her
cheeks, and she looked very pretty as they went up the walk.

"Goodness, Bertha!" exclaimed Elsie. "If you knew how much prettier you
look when you smile, you'd always wear a broad grin!"

Bertha scowled at this, and seeing it, King stopped stock-still.

"Cook up that smile again!" he cried. "Not another step till you do!"

As the lady of the house was waiting for them on the veranda, this was
embarrassing, so Bertha smiled, and then the whole group moved on.

So they kept on for the rest of the trip, King jollying Bertha whenever
it was necessary, and the other girls making merriment for themselves.
Marjorie and Elsie soon became friends, for they were alike merry-hearted
and pleasant-mannered.

It was about noon when they sold their last doll and turned their faces
homeward. Elsie and Bertha went with them, and when they reached Cousin
Jack's house they found Kitty and May Perry already there.

"Here you are, my little peddlers! Here you are, with your empty carts!"
cried Cousin Jack, as the children came upon the veranda. "All sold out,
I see."

"Yes," said Marjorie, "and we could have sold more if we had had them."

"Then there's nothing left for me to buy from you, and I really need a
doll."

"I'll make you one before I go home, Cousin Jack," said Marjorie; "and
then you can keep it to remember me by."

"All right, Mehitabel; good for you! I'll play with it every day,--and
when I go to see my little friends I'll take it with me. And now, my
weary peddlers, let me tell you what you have still before you! A number
of young people, mostly retired peddlers, are coming here to luncheon
with you. But we won't call it luncheon, because that sounds so prosaic.
We'll call it,--what shall we call it?"

"A festival feast," said Kitty. "That sounds gay and jolly."

"So it does," agreed Cousin Jack, "A May Day Festival Feast for the
Maynards, and nothing could be pleasanter nor that!"

And even before Cousin Jack finished speaking, the young guests began to
arrive, and Marjorie realized that it was a party her kind cousins had
made for them.

There were about twenty guests all together, and as they wore the pretty
costumes they had worn as peddlers, it was a picturesque group.

"Ho, for the Festival Feast!" exclaimed Cousin Jack, and taking Marjorie
and Kitty by either hand he went dancing with them across the lawn.

Under a clump of trees they discovered that a table had been set, though
it had not been visible from the house.

The table was like a vision of Fairyland, and Marjorie thought she had
never before seen such a pretty one.

The decorations were of pink, and in the middle of the table was a wicker
pushcart of fairly good size, filled with parcels wrapped in pink tissue
paper. From each parcel a long end of ribbon led to the plate of each
little guest. Also at each place was a much smaller pushcart of gilded
wicker-work tied with pink bows, and filled with candies.

Pink sweet peas and ferns were scattered over the white tablecloth, and
across the table ran a broad pink satin ribbon which bore in gold letters
the legend, "May for the Maynards, the Maynards for May!"

"What a beautiful table!" cried Marjorie, as the lovely sight greeted her
eyes.

he must be killed; he is surely dead!" An hour and ten minutes elapsed
from the time when Nelson received his wound before Hardy could come
to him.

They shook hands in silence: Hardy in vain struggling to suppress the
feelings of that most painful and yet sublimest moment.
"Well, Hardy," said Nelson, "how goes the day with us?" "Very well,"
replied Hardy; "ten ships have struck, but five of the van have
tacked, and show an intention to bear down upon the _Victory_.Then after the feast was over, the children were instructed to pull
gently on the ribbons that lay at their plate, and thus draw toward them
the pink paper parcels.

These being opened proved to contain a dainty gift for each one, the
prevailing color, of course, being pink.

"It's the pinkiest party I ever saw!" exclaimed Marjorie. "It makes it
seem more like May, being so pinky!"

"That's because it's for the Pink of Perfection," said Cousin Jack,
looking fondly at Marjorie, whom he considered his chief guest.

Then they all left the table, and with Cousin Jack as ringleader, they
played merry games until late in the afternoon.

But the cemented stones, architrave and battlement, stood fast; and it
was the proud master himself, who, as if some actual pressure had bent
him to the earth, kneeled down before Elizabeth, and prostrated
his brow to the marble flagstones on which she stood.

"Leicester," said Elizabeth, in a voice which trembled with passion,
"could I think thou hast practised on me--on me thy sovereign--on me
thy confiding, thy too partial mistress, the base and ungrateful
deception which thy present confusion surmises--by all that is holy,
false lord, that head of thine were in as great peril as ever was
thy father's!"

Leicester had not conscious innocence, but he had pride, to support him.
"I'm not sure that we can go and live there,--but if we were coaxed very
hard, we might come and visit you same time."

"I rather think you will!" said Mr. Maynard, heartily, "and the sooner
you come, and the longer you stay, the better we'll like it!"

And before the Maynards left Cambridge, it was definitely arranged that
Cousin Jack and Cousin Ethel should visit them in the near future.

The next day the Maynards started for home. They were to stop a day or
two in Boston, and then proceed by easy stages back to Rockwell.

As the big car started away from the Bryant house, after farewells both
merry and affectionate, the children sang in gay chorus, one of their
favorite road songs:

"All through the May
 The Maynards play;
 And every day
 Is a holiday.
 No, no. She is
 sentient and conscious
 of my emotions
 somewhere--somehow;
 _where_ we can not tell; _how_ we
 can not tell; yet would I not at
 this moment
 renounce the
 mysterious yet certain hope that I shall see her in a better world,
for all that this world can give me.