"When you going home?" Joe Brown asked, as they walked with him to the
train gate. "Wish it was now."

"We're coming to-morrow," said Mrs. Horton, "Say good-bye to Joe,
precious. He'll be home before you are."

Joe shook hands awkwardly with Sunny Boy and then with Mr. and Mrs.
Horton.

"I sure am obliged to you," he said shyly.

They watched him pass through the gate and down the platform, and saw
a brakeman point to the train he was to board. At the steps Joe turned
again, and waved to them.

"I'm glad he's out of New York," declared Mr. Horton. "This city is no
place for a friendless boy. And now you and Sunny Boy go on up to the
Museum, and I'll see you at dinner."

Sunny Boy enjoyed another ride on top of his beloved bus, and then he
and Mother spent a couple of busy and happy hours looking at the
wonderful exhibits in the Museum of Natural History.

"Jack said to see the birds," Sunny insisted, for Jack, the bell-boy
at the hotel, had his own ideas as to what was worth seeing in New
York.

After the birds came the Eskimo cases, and after them, those given
over to the American Indians. And then, quite by accident, Sunny Boy
and his mother came to the exhibits of the marvelous gigantic
creatures that were the animals of this world centuries ago.

"My goodness!" gasped Sunny Boy, startled, when he caught his first
glimpse of a creature labeled with a long name that he couldn't hope
to read. "What's that, Mother?"

"That's the way the animals used to look," said Mrs. Horton smiling.
"You'd be surprised, wouldn't you, if when you went to take a walk
some morning you saw this great thing coming over the field toward
you?"

"I wouldn't want to see him," said Sunny Boy decidedly. "Are there
more of 'em? Hurry up, Mother, and let's see this one in the corner."

"Now don't dream about any of them," said Mrs. Horton jokingly, as
they went down the Museum steps.

"Course not," answered Sunny Boy stoutly. "I never dream--hardly any,
I mean. And we're going home to-morrow, aren't we?"


CHAPTER XV

HOME AGAIN


The next morning Mrs. Horton did their packing and the trunk was sent
early to the station. Sunny Boy was just as excited at the prospect of
going home as he had been at the idea of the trip to New York.

"But what will you do all the time at home?" teased Jack the bell-boy,
when Sunny Boy went to say good-bye to him.

"Oh, I'm going to school," announced Sunny Boy proudly. "All the
children that I know go. Harriet's going to take me till I get used to
it, and then Mother says p'haps I can go by myself."

"Would you like to live here?" Sunny Boy asked Mother, when they had
found their comfortable seats in the train and it was almost time for
it to start.

"Live in New York?" echoed Mrs. Horton thoughtfully. "No, I think not,
precious. Though we have had a good time, haven't we?"

Sunny Boy nodded his head.

"I wouldn't like to live here all the time, either," he confided. "I'd
rather live in our house."

The train ride was uneventful, and as they had taken an express, they
were in Centronia by early afternoon. Aunt Bessie met them at the
station.

"Well, well, honey-bunch," she greeted her nephew, hugging him, "I
surely have missed you. What do you think of New York?"

"All right," said Sunny Boy, wriggling out of her arms. "Did the
children get the post cards I sent them?"

"I think they did," admitted Aunt Bessie gravely. "Ruth Baker talks a
great deal about her post-card album, I know. What is this I hear
about you going to school?"

Aunt Bessie and Sunny Boy were seated in the tonneau of Mr. Horton's
car which Aunt Bessie had driven down to meet him. Mrs. Horton was
sitting in the front seat with Mr. Horton who was driving.

"I'm going to school!" beamed Sunny Boy. "Did Mother tell you? And
then I can write in ink."

