One thing
  alone was wanting, that which Pyrrhus said the Romans
  wanted, to enable them to conquer the world--a general and a ruler
  like himself. There was wanted a master hand to restore and maintain
  peace at
  home, and to concentrate and direct the immense military resources
  of France against her foreign enemies. And such an one appeared in
  Napoleon. Pacifying La Vendée, receiving back the emigrants,
  restoring
  the church, remodelling the law, personally absolute, yet
  carefully preserving and maintaining all the great points which the
  nation had won at the Revolution, Napoleon united in himself, not
  only the power, but the whole will
  of France; and that power and will were guided by a genius for war
  such as Europe had never seen since Cæsar. The effect was
  absolutely magical.
  In November 1799, he was made First Consul; he found France humbled
by defeats, his Italian conquests lost, his allies invaded, his own
frontier threatened.

He
  took the field in May 1800, and in June the whole fortune of
  the war was changed, and Austria driven out of Lombardy by the victory
  of Marengo. Still the flood of the tide rose higher and higher, and
  every successive wave of its advance swept away a kingdom. Earthly
  state has never reached a prouder pinnacle
  than when Napoleon, in June 1812, gathered his army at Dresden--that
  mighty host, unequalled in all time, of 450,000, not men merely, but
  effective soldiers, and there received the homage of subject kings.
  And now, what was the principal adversary of this tremendous
  power? by whom was it checked, and resisted,
  and put down? By none, and by nothing, but the direct and manifest
  interposition of God. I know of no language so well fitted to describe
  that
  victorious advance to Moscow, and the utter humiliation
  of the retreat, as the language of the prophet with respect to the
  advance and subsequent destruction of the host of Sennacherib. 'When
  they arose early in the morning, behold they were all dead corpses,'
  applies almost literally to that memorable night of frost, in
  which twenty thousand horses perished, and the strength of the
  French army was utterly broken.

Human
  instruments, no doubt, were employed in the remainder of
  the work; nor would I deny to Germany and to Prussia the glories
  of the year 1813, nor
  to England the honour of her victories in Spain, or of the
  crowning victory of Waterloo. But at the distance of thirty years,
  those who lived in
  the time of danger and remember its magnitude, and now calmly review
  what there was in human
  strength to avert it, must acknowledge, I think, beyond all
  controversy, that the deliverance of Europe from the dominion
  of Napoleon was effected neither by Russia, nor by Germany,
  nor by England, but by the hand of God alone."
  The question, whether some races of men possess an inherent superiority
  over others, is mooted by Dr Arnold, in his dissertation on military
science.

Without laying
  down any universal rule, it may be stated
  that such a superiority can be predicated of no European nation.
  Frederick the Great defeated the French at Rosbach, as easily
  as Napoleon overcame the Prussians at Jena. If Marlborough was
  uniformly successful, William III. was always beaten by Luxembourg,
  and the Duke of
  Cumberland by D'Etrées and Saxe. It seems, therefore, a fair
  inference, that no civilized
  European
  nation possesses over its neighbours that degree of superiority
  which greater genius in the general, or greater discipline in
  the troops of its antagonists, will not be sufficient to counteract.
  
  
