Notwithstanding the obvious interest that attaches to the
investigations of Leonardo, it must be admitted that his work in
science remained almost as infertile as that of his great
precursor, Bacon. The really stimulative work of this generation
was done by a man of affairs, who knew little of theoretical
science except in one line, but who pursued that one practical
line until he achieved a wonderful result. This man was
Christopher Columbus. It is not necessary here to tell the trite
story of his accomplishment. Suffice it that his practical
demonstration of the rotundity of the earth is regarded by most
modern writers as marking an epoch in history. With the year of
his voyage the epoch of the Middle Ages is usually regarded as
coming to an end. It must not be supposed that any very sudden
change came over the aspect of scholarship of the time, but the
preliminaries of great things had been achieved, and when
Columbus made his famous voyage in 1492, the man was already
alive who was to bring forward the first great vitalizing thought
in the field of pure science that the Western world had
originated for more than a thousand years. This man bore the name
of Kopernik, or in its familiar Anglicized form, Copernicus. His
life work and that of his disciples will claim our attention in
the succeeding chapter.


IV. THE NEW COSMOLOGY--COPERNICUS TO KEPLER AND GALILEO

We have seen that the Ptolemaic astronomy, which was the accepted
doctrine throughout the Middle Ages, taught that the earth is
round. Doubtless there was a popular opinion current which
regarded the earth as flat, but it must be understood that this
opinion had no champions among men of science during the Middle
Ages. When, in the year 1492, Columbus sailed out to the west on
his memorable voyage, his expectation of reaching India had full
scientific warrant, however much it may have been scouted by
certain ecclesiastics and by the average man of the period.
Nevertheless, we may well suppose that the successful voyage of
Columbus, and the still more demonstrative one made about thirty
years later by Magellan, gave the theory of the earth's rotundity
a certainty it could never previously have had. Alexandrian
geographers had measured the size of the earth, and had not
hesitated to assert that by sailing westward one might reach
India. But there is a wide gap between theory and practice, and
it required the voyages of Columbus and his successors to bridge
that gap.

After the companions of Magellan completed the circumnavigation
of the globe, the general shape of our earth would, obviously,
never again be called in question. But demonstration of the
sphericity of the earth had, of course, no direct bearing upon
the question of the earth's position in the universe. Therefore
the voyage of Magellan served to fortify, rather than to dispute,
the Ptolemaic theory. According to that theory, as we have seen,
the earth was supposed to lie immovable at the centre of the
universe; the various heavenly bodies, including the sun,
revolving about it in eccentric circles. We have seen that
several of the ancient Greeks, notably Aristarchus, disputed this
conception, declaring for the central position of the sun in the
universe, and the motion of the earth and other planets about
that body. But this revolutionary theory seemed so opposed to the
ordinary observation that, having been discountenanced by
Hipparchus and Ptolemy, it did not find a single important
champion for more than a thousand years after the time of the
last great Alexandrian astronomer.

The first man, seemingly, to hark back to the Aristarchian
conception in the new scientific era that was now dawning was the
noted cardinal, Nikolaus of Cusa, who lived in the first half of
the fifteenth century, and was distinguished as a philosophical
writer and mathematician. His De Docta Ignorantia expressly
propounds the doctrine of the earth's motion. No one, however,
paid the slightest attention to his suggestion, which, therefore,
merely serves to furnish us with another interesting illustration
of the futility of propounding even a correct hypothesis before
the time is ripe to receive it--particularly if the hypothesis is
not fully fortified by reasoning based on experiment or
observation.

The man who was destined to put forward the theory of the earth's
motion in a way to command attention was born in 1473, at the
village of Thorn, in eastern Prussia. His name was Nicholas
Copernicus. There is no more famous name in the entire annals of
science than this, yet posterity has never been able fully to
establish the lineage of the famous expositor of the true
doctrine of the solar system. The city of Thorn lies in a
province of that border territory which was then under control of
Poland, but which subsequently became a part of Prussia. It is
claimed that the aspects of the city were essentially German, and
it is admitted that the mother of Copernicus belonged to that
race. The nationality of the father is more in doubt, but it is
urged that Copernicus used German as his mother-tongue. His great
work was, of course, written in Latin, according to the custom of
the time; but it is said that, when not employing that language,
he always wrote in German. The disputed nationality of Copernicus
strongly suggests that he came of a mixed racial lineage, and we
are reminded again of the influences of those ethnical minglings
to which we have previously more than once referred. The
acknowledged centres of civilization towards the close of the
fifteenth century were Italy and Spain. Therefore, the birthplace
of Copernicus lay almost at the confines of civilization,
reminding us of that earlier period when Greece was the centre of
culture, but when the great Greek thinkers were born in Asia
Minor and in Italy.

As a young man, Copernicus made his way to Vienna to study
medicine, and subsequently he journeyed into Italy and remained
there many years, About the year 1500 he held the chair of
mathematics in a college at Rome. Subsequently he returned to his
native land and passed his remaining years there, dying at
Domkerr, in Frauenburg, East Prussia, in the year 1543.

It would appear that Copernicus conceived the idea of the
heliocentric system of the universe while he was a comparatively
young man, since in the introduction to his great work, which he
addressed to Pope Paul III., he states that he has pondered his
system not merely nine years, in accordance with the maxim of
Horace, but well into the fourth period of nine years. Throughout
a considerable portion of this period the great work of
Copernicus was in manuscript, but it was not published until the
year of his death. The reasons for the delay are not very fully
established. Copernicus undoubtedly taught his system throughout
the later decades of his life. He himself tells us that he had
even questioned whether it were not better for him to confine
himself to such verbal teaching, following thus the example of
Pythagoras. Just as his life was drawing to a close, he decided
to pursue the opposite course, and the first copy of his work is
said to have been placed in his hands as he lay on his deathbed.

The violent opposition which the new system met from
ecclesiastical sources led subsequent commentators to suppose
that Copernicus had delayed publication of his work through fear
of the church authorities. There seems, however, to be no direct
evidence for this opinion. It has been thought significant that
Copernicus addressed his work to the pope. It is, of course,
quite conceivable that the aged astronomer might wish by this
means to demonstrate that he wrote in no spirit of hostility to
the church. His address to the pope might have been considered as
a desirable shield precisely because the author recognized that
his work must needs meet with ecclesiastical criticism. Be that
as it may, Copernicus was removed by death from the danger of
attack, and it remained for his disciples of a later generation
to run the gauntlet of criticism and suffer the charges of
heresy.

The work of Copernicus, published thus in the year 1543 at
Nuremberg, bears the title De Orbium Coelestium Revolutionibus.

It is not necessary to go into details as to the cosmological
system which Copernicus advocated, since it is familiar to every
one. In a word, he supposed the sun to be the centre of all the
planetary motions, the earth taking its place among the other
planets, the list of which, as known at that time, comprised
Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The fixed
stars were alleged to be stationary, and it was necessary to
suppose that they are almost infinitely distant, inasmuch as they
showed to the observers of that time no parallax; that is to say,
they preserved the same apparent position when viewed from the
opposite points of the earth's orbit.

But let us allow Copernicus to speak for himself regarding his
system, His exposition is full of interest. We quote first the
introduction just referred to, in which appeal is made directly
to the pope.

"I can well believe, most holy father, that certain people, when
they hear of my attributing motion to the earth in these books of
mine, will at once declare that such an opinion ought to be
rejected. Now, my own theories do not please me so much as not to
consider what others may judge of them. Accordingly, when I began
to reflect upon what those persons who accept the stability of
the earth, as confirmed by the opinion of many centuries, would
say when I claimed that the earth moves, I hesitated for a long
time as to whether I should publish that which I have written to
demonstrate its motion, or whether it would not be better to
follow the example of the Pythagoreans, who used to hand down the
secrets of philosophy to their relatives and friends only in oral
form. As I well considered all this, I was almost impelled to put
the finished work wholly aside, through the scorn I had reason to
anticipate on account of the newness and apparent contrariness to
reason of my theory.

"My friends, however, dissuaded me from such a course and
admonished me that I ought to publish my book, which had lain
concealed in my possession not only nine years, but already into
four times the ninth year. Not a few other distinguished and very
learned men asked me to do the same thing, and told me that I
ought not, on account of my anxiety, to delay any longer in
consecrating my work to the general service of mathematicians.

"But your holiness will perhaps not so much wonder that I have
dared to bring the results of my night labors to the light of
day, after having taken so much care in elaborating them, but is
waiting instead to hear how it entered my mind to imagine that
the earth moved, contrary to the accepted opinion of
mathematicians--nay, almost contrary to ordinary human
understanding. Therefore I will not conceal from your holiness
that what moved me to consider another way of reckoning the
motions of the heavenly bodies was nothing else than the fact
that the mathematicians do not agree with one another in their
investigations. In the first place, they are so uncertain about
the motions of the sun and moon that they cannot find out the
length of a full year. In the second place, they apply neither
the same laws of cause and effect, in determining the motions of
the sun and moon and of the five planets, nor the same proofs.
Some employ only concentric circles, others use eccentric and
epicyclic ones, with which, however, they do not fully attain the
desired end. They could not even discover nor compute the main
thing--namely, the form of the universe and the symmetry of its
parts. It was with them as if some should, from different places,
take hands, feet, head, and other parts of the body, which,
although very beautiful, were not drawn in their proper
relations, and, without making them in any way correspond, should
construct a monster instead of a human being.

"Accordingly, when I had long reflected on this uncertainty of
mathematical tradition, I took the trouble to read again the
books of all the philosophers I could get hold of, to see if some
one of them had not once believed that there were other motions
of the heavenly bodies. First I found in Cicero that Niceties had
believed in the motion of the earth. Afterwards I found in
Plutarch, likewise, that some others had held the same opinion.
This induced me also to begin to consider the movability of the
earth, and, although the theory appeared contrary to reason, I
did so because I knew that others before me had been allowed to
assume rotary movements at will, in order to explain the
phenomena of these celestial bodies. I was of the opinion that I,
too, might be permitted to see whether, by presupposing motion in
the earth, more reliable conclusions than hitherto reached could
not be discovered for the rotary motions of the spheres. And
thus, acting on the hypothesis of the motion which, in the
following book, I ascribe to the earth, and by long and continued
observations, I have finally discovered that if the motion of the
other planets be carried over to the relation of the earth and
this is made the basis for the rotation of every star, not only
will the phenomena of the planets be explained thereby, but also
the laws and the size of the stars; all their spheres and the
heavens themselves will appear so harmoniously connected that
nothing could be changed in any part of them without confusion in
the remaining parts and in the whole universe. I do not doubt
that clever and learned men will agree with me if they are
willing fully to comprehend and to consider the proofs which I
advance in the book before us. In order, however, that both the
learned and the unlearned may see that I fear no man's judgment,
I wanted to dedicate these, my night labors, to your holiness,
rather than to any one else, because you, even in this remote
corner of the earth where I live, are held to be the greatest in
dignity of station and in love for all sciences and for
mathematics, so that you, through your position and judgment, can
easily suppress the bites of slanderers, although the proverb
says that there is no remedy against the bite of calumny."


In chapter X. of book I., "On the Order of the Spheres," occurs a
more detailed presentation of the system, as follows:

"That which Martianus Capella, and a few other Latins, very well
knew, appears to me extremely noteworthy. He believed that Venus
and Mercury revolve about the sun as their centre and that they
cannot go farther away from it than the circles of their orbits
permit, since they do not revolve about the earth like the other
planets. According to this theory, then, Mercury's orbit would be
included within that of Venus, which is more than twice as great,
and would find room enough within it for its revolution.

"If, acting upon this supposition, we connect Saturn, Jupiter,
and Mars with the same centre, keeping in mind the greater extent
of their orbits, which include the earth's sphere besides those
of Mercury and Venus, we cannot fail to see the explanation of
the regular order of their motions. He is certain that Saturn,
Jupiter, and Mars are always nearest the earth when they rise in
the evening--that is, when they appear over against the sun, or
the earth stands between them and the sun--but that they are
farthest from the earth when they set in the evening--that is,
when we have the sun between them and the earth. This proves
sufficiently that their centre belongs to the sun and is the same
about which the orbits of Venus and Mercury circle. Since,
however, all have one centre, it is necessary for the space
intervening between the orbits of Venus and Mars to include the
earth with her accompanying moon and all that is beneath the
moon; for the moon, which stands unquestionably nearest the
earth, can in no way be separated from her, especially as there
is sufficient room for the moon in the aforesaid space. Hence we
do not hesitate to claim that the whole system, which includes
the moon with the earth for its centre, makes the round of that
great circle between the planets, in yearly motion about the sun,
and revolves about the centre of the universe, in which the sun
rests motionless, and that all which looks like motion in the sun
is explained by the motion of the earth. The extent of the
universe, however, is so great that, whereas the distance of the
earth from the sun is considerable in comparison with the size of
the other planetary orbits, it disappears when compared with the
sphere of the fixed stars. I hold this to be more easily
comprehensible than when the mind is confused by an almost
endless number of circles, which is necessarily the case with
those who keep the earth in the middle of the universe. Although
this may appear incomprehensible and contrary to the opinion of
many, I shall, if God wills, make it clearer than the sun, at
least to those who are not ignorant of mathematics.

"The order of the spheres is as follows: The first and lightest
of all the spheres is that of the fixed stars, which includes
itself and all others, and hence is motionless as the place in
the universe to which the motion and position of all other stars
is referred.

"Then follows the outermost planet, Saturn, which completes its
revolution around the sun in thirty years; next comes Jupiter
with a twelve years' revolution; then Mars, which completes its
course in two years. The fourth one in order is the yearly
revolution which includes the earth with the moon's orbit as an
epicycle. In the fifth place is Venus with a revolution of nine
months. The sixth place is taken by Mercury, which completes its
course in eighty days. In the middle of all stands the sun, and
who could wish to place the lamp of this most beautiful temple in
another or better place. Thus, in fact, the sun, seated upon the
royal throne, controls the family of the stars which circle
around him. We find in their order a harmonious connection which
cannot be found elsewhere. Here the attentive observer can see
why the waxing and waning of Jupiter seems greater than with
Saturn and smaller than with Mars, and again greater with Venus
than with Mercury. Also, why Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars are nearer
to the earth when they rise in the evening than when they
disappear in the rays of the sun. More prominently, however, is
it seen in the case of Mars, which when it appears in the heavens
at night, seems to equal Jupiter in size, but soon afterwards is
found among the stars of second magnitude. All of this results
from the same cause--namely, from the earth's motion. The fact
that nothing of this is to be seen in the case of the fixed stars
is a proof of their immeasurable distance, which makes even the
orbit of yearly motion or its counterpart invisible to us."[1]

