A friend has sent me from Ulster an account of one who was on terms of
true friendship with the people of faery. It has been taken down
accurately, for my friend, who had heard the old woman's story some
time before I heard of it, got her to tell it over again, and wrote it
out at once. She began by telling the old woman that she did not like
being in the house alone because of the ghosts and fairies; and the old
woman said, "There's nothing to be frightened about in faeries, miss.
Many's the time I talked to a woman myself that was a faery, or
something of the sort, and no less and more than mortal anyhow. She
used to come about your grandfather's house--your mother's grandfather,
that is--in my young days. But you'll have heard all about her." My
friend said that she had heard about her, but a long time before, and
she wanted to hear about her again; and the old woman went on, "Well
dear, the very first time ever I heard word of her coming about was
when your uncle--that is, your mother's uncle--Joseph married, and
building a house for his wife, for he brought her first to his
father's, up at the house by the Lough. My father and us were living
nigh hand to where the new house was to be built, to overlook the men
at their work. My father was a weaver, and brought his looms and all
there into a cottage that was close by. The foundations were marked
out, and the building stones lying about, but the masons had not come
yet; and one day I was standing with my mother foment the house, when
we sees a smart wee woman coming up the field over the burn to us. I
was a bit of a girl at the time, playing about and sporting myself, but
I mind her as well as if I saw her there now!" My friend asked how the
woman was dressed, and the old woman said, "It was a gray cloak she had
on, with a green cashmere skirt and a black silk handkercher tied round
her head, like the country women did use to wear in them times." My
friend asked, "How wee was she?" And the old woman said, "Well now, she
wasn't wee at all when I think of it, for all we called her the Wee
Woman. She was bigger than many a one, and yet not tall as you would
say. She was like a woman about thirty, brown-haired and round in the
face. She was like Miss Betty, your grandmother's sister, and Betty was
like none of the rest, not like your grandmother, nor any of them. She
was round and fresh in the face, and she never was married, and she
never would take any man; and we used to say that the Wee Woman--her
being like Betty--was, maybe, one of their own people that had been
took off before she grew to her full height, and for that she was
always following us and warning and foretelling. This time she walks
straight over to where my mother was standing. 'Go over to the Lough
this minute!'--ordering her like that--'Go over to the Lough, and tell
Joseph that he must change the foundation of this house to where I'll
show you fornent the thornbush. That is where it is to be built, if he
is to have luck and prosperity, so do what I'm telling ye this minute.'
The house was being built on 'the path' I suppose--the path used by the
people of faery in their journeys, and my mother brings Joseph down and
shows him, and he changes the foundations, the way he was bid, but
didn't bring it exactly to where was pointed, and the end of that was,
when he come to the house, his own wife lost her life with an accident
that come to a horse that hadn't room to turn right with a harrow
between the bush and the wall. The Wee Woman was queer and angry when
next she come, and says to us, 'He didn't do as I bid him, but he'll
see what he'll see."' My friend asked where the woman came from this
time, and if she was dressed as before, and the woman said, "Always the
same way, up the field beyant the burn. It was a thin sort of shawl she
had about her in summer, and a cloak about her in winter; and many and
many a time she came, and always it was good advice she was giving to
my mother, and warning her what not to do if she would have good luck.
There was none of the other children of us ever seen her unless me; but
I used to be glad when I seen her coming up the bum, and would run out
and catch her by the hand and the cloak, and call to my mother, 'Here's
the Wee Woman!' No man body ever seen her. My father used to be wanting
to, and was angry with my mother and me, thinking we were telling lies
and talking foolish like. And so one day when she had come, and was
sitting by the fireside talking to my mother, I slips out to the field
where he was digging. 'Come up,' says I, 'if ye want to see her. She's
sitting at the fireside now, talking to mother.' So in he comes with me
and looks round angry like and sees nothing, and he up with a broom
that was near hand and hits me a crig with it. 'Take that now!' says
he, 'for making a fool of me!' and away with him as fast as he could,
and queer and angry with me. The Wee Woman says to me then, 'Ye got
that now for bringing people to see me. No man body ever seen me, and
none ever will.'

"There was one day, though, she gave him a queer fright anyway,
whether he had seen her or not. He was in among the cattle when it
happened, and he comes up to the house all trembling like. 'Don't let
me hear you say another word of your Wee Woman. I have got enough of
her this time.' Another time, all the same, he was up Gortin to sell
horses, and before he went off, in steps the Wee Woman and says she to
my mother, holding out a sort of a weed, 'Your man is gone up by
Gortin, and there's a bad fright waiting him coming home, but take this
and sew it in his coat, and he'll get no harm by it.' My mother takes
the herb, but thinks to herself, 'Sure there's nothing in it,' and
throws it on the floor, and lo and behold, and sure enough! coming home
from Gortin, my father got as bad a fright as ever he got in his life.
What it was I don't right mind, but anyway he was badly damaged by it.
My mother was in a queer way, frightened of the Wee Woman, after what
she done, and sure enough the next time she was angry. 'Ye didn't
believe me,' she said, 'and ye threw the herb I gave ye in the fire,
and I went far enough for it.' There was another time she came and told
how William Hearne was dead in America. 'Go over,' she says, 'to the
Lough, and say that William is dead, and he died happy, and this was
the last Bible chapter ever he read,' and with that she gave the verse
and chapter. 'Go,' she says, 'and tell them to read them at the next
class meeting, and that I held his head while he died.' And sure enough
word came after that how William had died on the day she named. And,
doing as she did about the chapter and hymn, they never had such a
prayer-meeting as that. One day she and me and my mother was standing
talking, and she was warning her about something, when she says of a
sudden, 'Here comes Miss Letty in all her finery, and it's time for me
to be off.' And with that she gave a swirl round on her feet, and
raises up in the air, and round and round she goes, and up and up, as
if it was a winding stairs she went up, only far swifter. She went up
and up, till she was no bigger than a bird up against the clouds,
singing and singing the whole time the loveliest music I ever heard in
my life from that day to this. It wasn't a hymn she was singing, but
poetry, lovely poetry, and me and my mother stands gaping up, and all
of a tremble. 'What is she at all, mother?' says I. 'Is it an angel she
is, or a faery woman, or what?' With that up come Miss Letty, that was
your grandmother, dear, but Miss Letty she was then, and no word of her
being anything else, and she wondered to see us gaping up that way,
till me and my mother told her of it. She went on gay-dressed then, and
was lovely looking. She was up the lane where none of us could see her
coming forward when the Wee Woman rose up in that queer way, saying,
'Here comes Miss Letty in all her finery.' Who knows to what far
country she went, or to see whom dying?

"It was never after dark she came, but daylight always, as far as I
mind, but wanst, and that was on a Hallow Eve night. My mother was by
the fire, making ready the supper; she had a duck down and some apples.
In slips the Wee Woman, 'I'm come to pass my Hallow Eve with you,' says
she. 'That's right,' says my mother, and thinks to herself, 'I can give
her her supper nicely.' Down she sits by the fire a while. 'Now I'll
tell you where you'll bring my supper,' says she. 'In the room beyond
there beside the loom--set a chair in and a plate.' 'When ye're
spending the night, mayn't ye as well sit by the table and eat with the
rest of us?' 'Do what you're bid, and set whatever you give me in the
room beyant. I'll eat there and nowhere else.' So my mother sets her a
plate of duck and some apples, whatever was going, in where she bid,
and we got to our supper and she to hers; and when we rose I went in,
and there, lo and behold ye, was her supper-plate a bit ate of each
portion, and she clean gone!"


1897.


DREAMS THAT HAVE NO MORAL


The friend who heard about Maive and the hazel-stick went to the
workhouse another day. She found the old people cold and wretched,
"like flies in winter," she said; but they forgot the cold when they
began to talk. A man had just left them who had played cards in a rath
with the people of faery, who had played "very fair"; and one old man
had seen an enchanted black pig one night, and there were two old
people my friend had heard quarrelling as to whether Raftery or
Callanan was the better poet. One had said of Raftery, "He was a big
man, and his songs have gone through the whole world. I remember him
well. He had a voice like the wind"; but the other was certain "that
you would stand in the snow to listen to Callanan." Presently an old
man began to tell my friend a story, and all listened delightedly,
bursting into laughter now and then. The story, which I am going to
tell just as it was told, was one of those old rambling moralless
tales, which are the delight of the poor and the hard driven, wherever
life is left in its natural simplicity. They tell of a time when
nothing had consequences, when even if you were killed, if only you had
a good heart, somebody would bring you to life again with a touch of a
rod, and when if you were a prince and happened to look exactly like
your brother, you might go to bed with his queen, and have only a
little quarrel afterwards. We too, if we were so weak and poor that
everything threatened us with misfortune, would remember, if foolish
people left us alone, every old dream that has been strong enough to
fling the weight of the world from its shoulders.

There was a king one time who was very much put out because he had no
son, and he went at last to consult his chief adviser. And the chief
adviser said, "It's easy enough managed if you do as I tell you. Let
you send some one," says he, "to such a place to catch a fish. And when
the fish is brought in, give it to the queen, your wife, to eat."

So the king sent as he was told, and the fish was caught and brought
in, and he gave it to the cook, and bade her put it before the fire,
but to be careful with it, and not to let any blob or blister rise on
it. But it is impossible to cook a fish before the fire without the
skin of it rising in some place or other, and so there came a blob on
the skin, and the cook put her finger on it to smooth it down, and then
she put her finger into her mouth to cool it, and so she got a taste of
the fish. And then it was sent up to the queen, and she ate it, and
what was left of it was thrown out into the yard, and there was a mare
in the yard and a greyhound, and they ate the bits that were thrown out.

And before a year was out, the queen had a young son, and the cook had
a young son, and the mare had two foals, and the greyhound had two pups.

And the two young sons were sent out for a while to some place to be
cared, and when they came back they adviser and said, "Tell me some way
that I can know were so much like one another no person could know
which was the queen's son and which was the cook's. And the queen was
vexed at that, and she went to the chief which is my own son, for I
don't like to be giving the same eating and drinking to the cook's son
as to my own." "It is easy to know that," said the chief adviser, "if
you will do as I tell you. Go you outside, and stand at the door they
will be coming in by, and when they see you, your own son will bow his
head, but the cook's son will only laugh."

So she did that, and when her own son bowed his head, her servants put
a mark on him that she would know him again. And when they were all
sitting at their dinner after that, she said to Jack, that was the
cook's son, "It is time for you to go away out of this, for you are not
my son." And her own son, that we will call Bill, said, "Do not send
him away, are we not brothers?" But Jack said, "I would have been long
ago out of this house if I knew it was not my own father and mother
owned it." And for all Bill could say to him, he would not stop. But
before he went, they were by the well that was in the garden, and he
said to Bill, "If harm ever happens to me, that water on the top of the
well will be blood, and the water below will be honey."

Then he took one of the pups, and one of the two horses, that was
foaled after the mare eating the fish, and the wind that was after him
could not catch him, and he caught the wind that was before him. And he
went on till he came to a weaver's house, and he asked him for a
lodging, and he gave it to him. And then he went on till he came to a
king's house, and he sent in at the door to ask, "Did he want a
servant?" "All I want," said the king, "is a boy that will drive out
the cows to the field every morning, and bring them in at night to be
milked." "I will do that for you," said Jack; so the king engaged him.

In the morning Jack was sent out with the four-and-twenty cows, and
the place he was told to drive them to had not a blade of grass in it
for them, but was full of stones. So Jack looked about for some place
where there would be better grass, and after a while he saw a field
with good green grass in it, and it belonging to a giant. So he knocked
down a bit of the wall and drove them in, and he went up himself into
an apple-tree and began to eat the apples. Then the giant came into the
field. "Fee-faw-fum," says he, "I smell the blood of an Irishman. I see
you where you are, up in the tree," he said; "you are too big for one
mouthful, and too small for two mouthfuls, and I don't know what I'll
do with you if I don't grind you up and make snuff for my nose." "As
you are strong, be merciful," says Jack up in the tree. "Come down out
of that, you little dwarf," said the giant, "or I'll tear you and the
tree asunder." So Jack came down. "Would you sooner be driving red-hot
knives into one another's hearts," said the giant, "or would you sooner
be fighting one another on red-hot flags?" "Fighting on red-hot flags
is what I'm used to at home," said Jack, "and your dirty feet will be
sinking in them and my feet will be rising." So then they began the
fight. The ground that was hard they made soft, and the ground that was
soft they made hard, and they made spring wells come up through the
green flags. They were like that all through the day, no one getting
the upper hand of the other, and at last a little bird came and sat on
the bush and said to Jack, "If you don't make an end of him by sunset,
he'll make an end of you." Then Jack put out his strength, and he
brought the giant down on his knees. "Give me my life," says the giant,
"and I'll give you the three best gifts." "What are those?" said Jack.
"A sword that nothing can stand against, and a suit that when you put
it on, you will see everybody, and nobody will see you, and a pair of
shoes that will make you ran faster than the wind blows." "Where are
they to be found?" said Jack. "In that red door you see there in the
hill." So Jack went and got them out. "Where will I try the sword?"
says he. "Try it on that ugly black stump of a tree," says the giant.
"I see nothing blacker or uglier than your own head," says Jack. And
with that he made one stroke, and cut off the giant's head that it went
into the air, and he caught it on the sword as it was coming down, and
made two halves of it. "It is well for you I did not join the body
again," said the head, "or you would have never been able to strike it
off again." "I did not give you the chance of that," said Jack. And he
brought away the great suit with him.

So he brought the cows home at evening, and every one wondered at all
the milk they gave that night. And when the king was sitting at dinner
with the princess, his daughter, and the rest, he said, "I think I only
hear two roars from beyond to-night in place of three."

The next morning Jack went out again with the cows, and he saw another
field full of grass, and he knocked down the wall and let the cows in.
All happened the same as the day before, but the giant that came this
time had two heads, and they fought together, and the little bird came
and spoke to Jack as before. And when Jack had brought the giant down,
he said, "Give me my life, and I'll give you the best thing I have."
"What is that?" says Jack. "It's a suit that you can put on, and you
will see every one but no one can see you." "Where is it?" said Jack.
"It's inside that little red door at the side of the hill." So Jack
went and brought out the suit. And then he cut off the giant's two
heads, and caught them coming down and made four halves of them. And
they said it was well for him he had not given them time to join the
body.

That night when the cows came home they gave so much milk that all the
vessels that could be found were filled up.

The next morning Jack went out again, and all happened as before, and
the giant this time had four heads, and Jack made eight halves of them.
And the giant had told him to go to a little blue door in the side of
the hill, and there he got a pair of shoes that when you put them on
would go faster than the wind.

That night the cows gave so much milk that there were not vessels
enough to hold it, and it was given to tenants and to poor people
passing the road, and the rest was thrown out at the windows. I was
passing that way myself, and I got a drink of it.

That night the king said to Jack, "Why is it the cows are giving so
much milk these days? Are you bringing them to any other grass?" "I am
not," said Jack, "but I have a good stick, and whenever they would stop
still or lie down, I give them blows of it, that they jump and leap
over walls and stones and ditches; that's the way to make cows give
plenty of milk."

And that night at the dinner, the king said, "I hear no roars at all."

The next morning, the king and the princess were watching at the
window to see what would Jack do when he got to the field. And Jack
knew they were there, and he got a stick, and began to batter the cows,
that they went leaping and jumping over stones, and walls, and ditches.
"There is no lie in what Jack said," said the king then.

