Produced by Roger Frank, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: Froll's Antics.--Page 54.]


[Illustrated title plate: Springdale Stories. Illustrated. ERIC. Lee &
Shepard; BOSTON.]


THE SPRINGDALE STORIES.

ERIC;

OR,
UNDER THE SEA.

BY
MRS. S. B. C. SAMUELS,

AUTHOR OF "ADELE," "HERBERT," "NETTIE'S TRIAL,"
"JOHNSTONE'S FARM," "ENNISFELLEN."

BOSTON
LEE AND SHEPARD PUBLISHERS
CHARLES T. DILLINGHAM NEW YORK


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870,
BY LEE AND SHEPARD,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

Electrotyped at the
Boston Stereotype Foundry.


AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED

TO

FRANK EDWARD SAMUELS.


THE SPRINGDALE STORIES.

COMPLETE IN SIX VOLUMES,

1. ADELE.
2. ERIC.
3. HERBERT.
4. NETTIE'S TRIAL.
5. JOHNSTONE'S FARM.
6. ENNISFELLEN.


PREFACE.

The story of the travels of Eric and his friends on the continent of
Europe will, I trust, be interesting to my young readers. Many of the
incidents described are actual facts, and the descent of Eric, in diving
armor, to the bottom of the sea, will be found to possess some items which
will be worth remembering.

The sights, sounds, and sensations which I have described, are such as any
submarine diver of experience has seen, heard, and felt, and therefore
will be instructive in a certain way.

The finding a box of gold by the divers is not of often occurrence,
although valuables are reclaimed from the ocean in this manner
occasionally.

The lesson taught by Eric's honesty in trying to find the owner of the
money, and its influence on his accusers, when he is unjustly accused of
theft, will be worthy of attention to all my young friends who have a name
to make.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                          PAGE
     I.  Leaving the Castle.                        9
    II.  "The Hague."                              23
   III.  The City.                                 30
    IV.  Allan's Story.                            39
     V.  "Seeing the Elephant."                    50
    VI.  A Dutch City.                             62
   VII.  Under the Sea.                            70
  VIII.  Thrilling Experience.                     92
    IX.  Uncle John.                              106
     X.  Strasbourg.                              120
    XI.  Eric in Trouble.                         135
   XII.  "A Friend in Need is a Friend Indeed."   145
  XIII.  The Real Thief.                          153
   XIV.  Percy, Beauty, and Jack.                 159
    XV.  The Last.                                167


ERIC.


CHAPTER I.

LEAVING THE CASTLE.


Olendorf is not far from Hamburg. The broad and sparkling Elbe washes it
on the western side, and with the rugged mountains and the weird grand,
old forests upon the north and east, seem to shut the little town quite in
from the outer world; yet Olendorf had been an important place and on
account of its grand old fortress, Castle Wernier, was a bone of
contention throughout the French and German wars; and between the French,
who were resolute to hold the fortress, and the barons of Wernier, who
were equally resolute to regain it, the castle suffered severely; and
when, long years after, peace was declared, the last baron of Wernier
died, and the castle came into the possession of Adele Stanley, his great
granddaughter, it was merely a grand old ruin.

Adele's father rebuilt the tower and a couple of wings, and furnished all
the habitable rooms, intending to have his little Adele and Herbert spend
their childhood there. But while Adele was yet almost a baby, her kind
father died. Then she lost her mother, and was for a long time a wanderer
among strangers in a foreign land; and the old castle had been
uninhabited, except by Gretchen, the gardener's wife, and the owls in its
dark turrets. Now, however, the long windows were thrown open to the fresh
breezes and sunshine; merry laughter rang up from the garden; children's
voices echoed among the ruins, and children's feet danced through the long
corridors, keeping time to the music of the happy voices.

Adele and Herbert Stanley were at the castle with their young guests from
New York--Eric and Nettie Hyde. They had spent the summer months there;
"the happiest months in their lives," they all declared. Now, alas! the
merry season was drawing to a close. Adele was to go to her grandfather's
home in England, Herbert to school at Eton, Nettie with her mother to New
York, and Eric was to travel in Holland and the German states with his
uncle, Dr. Ward, and his cousin, Johnny Van Rasseulger.

Such a busy day as it was to be! But just now all care was forgotten, even
to the regret at parting, in watching the absurd freaks of little Froll,
the monkey. Her real name was Frolic; but who ever heard children call a
pet by its real name?

Mrs. Hyde called to Nettie, requesting her to do an errand. At the sound
of her voice Nettie ran towards her, exclaiming,--

"O, mamma! Adele has given us such a splendid present, to take home with
us!"

"What is it, my dear?"

"I love it so dearly! It's--it's--"--here Nettie's voice trembled a
little, and her heart knew its own misgivings--"it's--Froll, mamma, the
little darling!"

"And who _is_ Froll, the little darling!"

"That dear little monkey," answered Nettie, pointing to Froll, now close
at hand.

"O," exclaimed Mrs. Hyde, retreating hastily, "I dislike monkeys, and I
cannot have one travelling with me."

"But, mamma--" said Nettie, piteously.

"You need not think of it, my dear; it is quite impossible," was the
decided reply, to Nettie's disappointment.

"But may not Eric take her?"

"Uncle Charlie must decide that question: if he has no objections to
travelling with an animal that is never out of mischief, I suppose Eric
may take charge of her."

"But then, mamma, Eric will be gone a whole long year--"

"And as you have lived nine whole long years," interrupted her mother,
smiling, "without a monkey, or a desire for one, don't you think you could
survive the separation?"

Nettie didn't then think she could; but a while after, when Froll chased
her with a paint-brush dripping wet with red paint, and then completely
spoiled a pretty landscape view that Herbert was painting for her, she
changed her mind, and decided that a voyage from Hamburg to New York with
such an uncontrollable creature would be, to say the least, inconvenient.

To be sure, papa was to meet them at the Hague, and he might be willing to
look to her safe transportation across the Atlantic; but she had not much
faith in this argument, and, making a virtue of necessity, resigned
herself with becoming grace to her mother's wishes.

Looking back upon the pleasant summer months at Castle Wernier, the
children thought time had never gone so quickly. They were soon to be
parted from each other, and their pleasant German home and every object
took a new interest to them.

"The value of a thing is never known till we have lost it," Herbert said,
sorrowfully, thinking how lonely Adele and he would become when parted
from their companions.

"Nor how dear a place an old castle is, until we are forced to leave it,"
said Eric.

"I remember thinking once," said Nettie, "that this place was horrible. It
was when we were all so frightened about the ghost."

"And all the time I was the ghost," Adele added; "and I used to think it
very hard that I couldn't speak to you, not knowing that I was frightening
you all out of your wits."

"I suppose more than half the ghosts we read about are only people walking
in their sleep, as Adele did," said Herbert.

"Of course," said Nettie; "but if we stay here all day, talking about
ghosts, what will become of our pets and toys?"

As Herbert and Adele were to start for their home in England when Mrs.
Hyde and her children left the castle, all their pets were to be disposed
of among the gardener's children, that is, all but Froll, for Eric was
sure that uncle Charlie would not object to having the little creature for
a travelling companion; and as Mrs. Hyde would not allow Nettie to take
her with her, Froll was to make the tour of Germany with Dr. Ward and the
boys.

There were the pony, and the rabbits, and the canary bird, of all which
Gretchen's children were to take the utmost care, until the dear
_Fraulien_ and the young _Herr_ should come again. And many and loud were
the expressions of affectionate regret at the children's departure, oddly
intermingled with exclamations of delight at the appearance of numerous
toys, which Mrs. Nichols and Mrs. Hyde had decided must be left over from
the packing.

Then the garden must be visited in every nook and corner. Particular
directions must be left with Hans concerning their choice flowers and
favorite plants.

And then there was the grand event of the day--the packing up of their own
individual treasures, in the shape of books and toys. They worked hard all
day, and were very proud of their work when all was accomplished; but, in
the dead of night, when they were fast in the "Land o' Nod," old mauma,
who was prowling around the trunks and hampers to see if all were secure,
seemed rather suspicious of one, and knelt down on the floor to examine
it, giving it a little shake, by way of test.

"Dear heart alive!" she exclaimed; "just you look here, missis, please.
All those little flimpsy toys and things to bottom, an' the heavy book
stuck in any ways to top, an' all of 'em jolting roun' like anything!"

Poor tired Mrs. Hyde could not help smiling, as she leaned wearily over
the two hampers the children had filled, and gave directions to mauma and
Gretchen about repacking them.

The two women soon accomplished what it had taken the children all day to
perform; and to their faithful exertions was owing the safe arrival at
Fifth Avenue and Ennisfellen of the toys.

Early in the morning the children were aroused to prepare for their
journey. They were all in high spirits, and thought dressing and
breakfasting by candle-light the "greatest fun in the world;" though it is
doubtful if they would have held to their opinion had the practice been
continued permanently.

"Nobody wants breakfast so early," Nettie said, as she laughed and talked
in excitement.

"I'm sure nobody wants to lunch on the train," shouted Eric, across the
hall.

"The train, indeed! Why, we shall be aboard the steamer at noon. I like to
travel on these European steamers," Nettie called back.

"I am so glad we are all to travel together to the Hague," said Adele's
sweet voice. "How quickly you dress, Nettie! But where _can_ my other boot
be?"

"I'm sure I don't know; let's look for it. Here 'tis."

"No; that's your own."

"Sure enough; and I've been all this time doing up yours. Shouldn't wonder
if we did miss the train. And it's in a knot, and I can't untie it. Mauma,
mauma, bring another light here, quick! and you'd better hurry, Adele."

"Nettie, did you mean the train was in a knot?" called Herbert.

"No, it's _not_," said Nettie, quickly; and then they all laughed merrily.
For, though Nettie's remark was not particularly brilliant, there was
enough in it to amuse the happy, excited hearts around her.

The breakfast received a very slight share of attention. The boys were
constantly running below to "see after the horses," and Nettie was dancing
about, in everybody's way, assuring them all that they would certainly
lose the train, and begging Adele, for her own safety, to keep close to
her, and not to be nervous on any account.

"I know somebody will forget something!" she exclaimed for the fiftieth
time. "Be sure, all of you, to remember."

"Not to forget," interrupted Eric, mischievously.

"The carriage has come to the door, Herr Von Nichols!" Gretchen announced,
through her tears.

All the Werniers, the ancient holders of the castle, had been Herr Vons;
and as Mrs. Nichols was a Wernier, Gretchen had adopted the villagers'
fashion of bestowing the title upon the husband.

The servants were in the hall, sorrowfully awaiting the departure of their
kind patrons.

"Good by! Good by!" the children shouted; while the mournful group bade
them "God speed."

"Who's forgotten anything?" said Nettie, crowding into a corner of the
carriage.

"I think you have, my dear," answered her mother. "Where is your sacque?"

Nettie looked quite dismayed.

"O, I packed it, mamma. I forgot I was to wear this dress."

There was a general consternation at this confession, until mauma drew the
missing article from under her shawl.

"Here 'tis, Miss Nettie. I 'spects you'd want it."

"I'm ever so much obliged to you, mauma," said Nettie, eagerly seizing the
sacque, and putting herself into it, while Mrs. Hyde rewarded the faithful
old colored woman with a grateful smile.

"I was so busy remembering for the others, mamma," Nettie said,
apologetically.

"Perhaps it would be as well for you to attend more particularly to
yourself, my dear," was her mother's mild rebuke.

Mr. Nichols and the boys were busy stowing boxes and parcels in various
hidden compartments of the carriage. Just as Mr. Nichols announced that
they were ready to start, Eric thrust his head in at the door, exclaiming,
funnily,--

"Mamma, Nettie is so anxious, suppose you all just feel inside your
bonnets, to make sure that your heads are here?"

"Don't detain us, Eric," his mother said, smiling at the frank, joyous
face.

"All right, mamma. This is my load: let me see,--Mrs. Hyde, Adele, Nettie,
and mauma. Go ahead, Carl."

The coachman drew up his reins, and the spirited horses, after curvetting
and prancing for an instant, dashed down the avenue, Adele's and Nettie's
white handkerchiefs floating on the breeze, in a last adieu to Wernier.

They were followed immediately by another carriage, containing Mr. and
Mrs. Nichols and the boys; and, except for the group of sorrowing
servants, watching the fast-disappearing carriages, Castle Wernier was
left alone.


CHAPTER II.

"THE HAGUE."


                "The sun rode high, the breeze was free,
                  High dashed the diamond spray,
                And proudly o'er the dark blue sea
                  The steamer ploughed her way."

Aboard of the Hague, the children, watching the distant spires and domes
of Hamburg "melt into air" as the vessel bore, with almost imperceptible
motion rapidly towards the North Sea, began to realize that they would see
no more of Wernier. And though their sorrow but faintly came home to them,
they were sad and thoughtful.

Adele whispered mournfully to Herbert, "O, let us go below! It is so like
going out in the Europa, with dear mamma, before she died in the wreck. O,
Herbie, I cannot bear the cruel, cruel sea. Take me below."

So Herbert and Adele went to the cabin, and Eric suggested to Nettie that
they should follow.

"No," said Nettie, "I like to stay here. Eric, see that boy look at you; I
think he wants to speak."

Eric looked around, and saw a boy of his own age steadfastly regarding
him. When he caught Eric's eye, he bowed and hastened forward, holding out
his hand.

"Eric Hyde?" he said.

"Yes," said Eric. "Do you know me?"

"I never _saw_ you before; but I know you, for all that," said the boy.

"How?" said Eric, astonished, and interested, too.

"I knew you by your voice. I used to live next door to you in New York. I
was blind then, and auntie sent me out to Hamburg, to the famous oculist
Dr. Francis. He has given me my sight, and I am going home alone. Auntie
doesn't know about it yet; she only knows that the operation was performed
two months ago, and that Dr. Francis had no doubt of its success. Won't
she be surprised to see me walk into the parlor, and to hear the whole
story from me?"

"Hurrah!" cried Eric, excitedly, tossing his cap high in the air.

"I remember you well," said Nettie; "I am Nettie Hyde. Don't you, Eric?"

"Yes," said Eric. "I used to pity you so! Isn't it just jolly!"

"Do you know," said the boy, whose name was Allan Ramsdell, "I never saw a
steamer before to-day! I have been blind so long, ever since I was four
years old. I've got the key of my state-room here, but I don't know where
to go to look for the room."

"I'll show you," volunteered Eric. "And, Nettie, if you will go down for
Adele and Herbie, we'll go all over the steamer."

Nettie ran quickly into the cabin, eager to impart the news of their new
acquaintance. Mrs. Hyde was glad of anything that would interest Adele,
and urged her to go upon deck with Herbert. Mr. Nichols was resting from
the fatigue of the ride. Mrs. Nichols, always feeble, did not feel equal
to the exertion of climbing the companion way, the stairs from the upper
deck to the cabin, and Mrs. Hyde wished to remain with her; so the
children began their exploring expedition alone.

The great steamship was now out in the blue sea. The wide decks were
gradually being cleared of passengers as they sought their narrow
state-rooms, and as the children were quiet and orderly, no one interfered
with them.

"This is the dining-hall," announced Eric, as the five heads peered in at
the door of a long saloon, where tables were ranged for the accommodation
of the passengers.

Behind this saloon was the kitchen, a hot, steaming place, where men,
mostly cooks, in dirty white jackets, rushed helter-skelter into each
other and around the room.

"Too many cooks spoil the broth," said Herbert, in an undertone, which
remark so tickled the others that they all ran off laughing, till they met
a stout, dignified "yellow man," holding the store-room keys, and wearing
a cleaner jacket than the others. He was the steward, and, being cross,
scolded the children roundly for getting in his way. In the lower cabin
were the steerage passengers. These had no saloon with tables arranged for
their accommodation. They ate plain bean soup from tin mugs, and hard ship
biscuit from their hands, and their table was a long board, let down from
above by ropes. They stood around the board while eating, and when the
meal was finished, the temporary table was drawn up out of the way.

By the time these observations had been made Mrs. Hyde joined them; and
after speaking kind congratulations to Allan, and inviting him to attach
himself to their party, she warned the children of the approach of dinner,
and requested them to prepare for it.

Allan was very grateful to Mrs. Hyde for her kindness, and thanked her
politely. He travelled with her to his aunt's door, and was such a
gentlemanly, companionable boy that they all became very much attached to
him. It would be pleasant to take the trip from Hamburg to the western
coast with our party; but that is impossible, as Eric has considerable
journeying to do in another direction, and we are to accompany him. But
the voyage was a pleasant one, and the children saw and learned many new
and wonderful things before they reached their destination. We must not
forget that little Froll left Hamburg snugly packed in a cage, and
intrusted to mauma's care for the voyage. She was quite a favorite aboard
the vessel, and made much merriment by her absurd pranks, and at Hague was
safely landed, and transported to the hotel.

At Hague, too, the Hydes and Allan Ramsdell left the vessel, after a
sorrowful parting with Mr. and Mrs. Nichols and Herbert and Adele.


CHAPTER III.

THE CITY.


It would seem strange to us to hear our native city called "the Boston,"
and stranger still to hear the staid old capital called by more names than
one.

Eric, and Allan, and Nettie were quite confused in the capital of Holland
by the variety of names given it.

"Hague," "The Hague," and "La Haye" they had heard, but upon their arrival
they found its inhabitants calling it "_Gravenhaag_," which, Mrs. Hyde
explained, meant "The Count's Meadow."

"What a comical place!" Nettie exclaimed, as they glided along through
"canal streets" to the hotel. "Mamma, if our streets were like these,
wouldn't you fret for our precious necks every time we looked out of a
window? And I don't suppose you would ever let us go out to play, for fear
we'd drown."

"Still, it is very pleasant gliding under these shady trees; and if you
look about, my dear, you will see there are also carriage roads, with
sidewalks."

"Yes," said Eric; "we've passed several."

"I like these boat roads best," said Allan, "they are so novel."

He wished, too, the friendship of the United States against Great
Britain, and knew not the worth of what he was bargaining away.

Willing to take fifty million francs, he offered for one hundred
million, speedily closing with Livingston and Monroe's tender of
eighty, we to assume in addition the French spoliation claims of
our citizens.

The treaty of purchase was signed May 2, 1803, and ratified by the
Senate the 17th of the following October.

This stupendous transaction assured to our Republic not only leading
hand in the affairs of this continent, but place among the great
powers of the world.

Its 1,124,685 square miles doubled the national domain. It opened path well
toward, if not to, the Pacific, and made ours measureless tracts
of agricultural and mining lands, rich as any under the sun.

[Illustration: Portrait.] Stephen Decatur.

If it originated many of the most perplexing questions which have
agitated our national politics, as those relating to slavery in
this territory itself, to the acquisitions from Mexico, to the
Pacific railways, and to the Indians and the Chinese, all this has
been amply compensated by the above and countless other benefits.

Equally brilliant if less impressive was another piece of Jefferson's
foreign policy. He might be over-friendly to France, but elsewhere he
certainly did not believe in peace at any price.

The Barbary powers had begun to annoy our commerce soon after Independence.
The Betsey was captured in 1784, next year the Maria, of Boston,
and the Dauphin, of Philadelphia, and their crews of twenty-one men
carried to a long and disgraceful captivity in Algiers.

The Dey's bill for these captives, held by him as slaves, was:
3 Captains at $6,000 $18,000 2 Mates at $4,000 8,000 2 Passengers
at $4,000 8,000 14 Seamen at $1,400 19,600 --------- $53,600 For
custom, eleven per cent 5,896 --------- $59,496
Later a single cruise lost us ten vessels to these half-civilized
people.

Following European precedent, Washington had made, in 1795, a
ransom-treaty with this nest of pirates, to carry out which cost
us a fat million.

The captives had meantime increased to one hundred and fifteen, though
the crews of the Maria and the Dauphin had wasted away to ten men.
Nearly a million more went to the other North-African freebooters.

The policy of ransoming was, indeed, cheaper than force.

Count d'Estaing used to say that bombarding a pirate town was like
breaking windows with guineas.

The old Dey of Algiers, learning the expense of Du Quesne's expedition to
batter his capital, declared that he himself would have burnt it for
half the sum.

Yet it makes one's blood hot to-day to read how our fathers paid tribute
to those thieves.

The Dey had, in so many words, called us his slaves, and had actually
terrorized Captain Bainbridge, of the man-of-war George Washington,
into carrying despatches for him to Constantinople, flying the Algerine
pirate flag conspicuously at the fore.

After anchoring--this was some requital--Bainbridge was permitted to hoist
the Stars and Stripes, the first time that noble emblem ever kissed
the breeze of the Golden Horn

.

[1803]
Jefferson loathed such submission, and vowed that it should cease.

Commodore Dale was ordered to the Mediterranean with a squadron to protect
our ships there from further outrage.

One of his vessels, the Experiment, soon captured a Tripoli cruiser of
fourteen guns, the earliest stroke of any civilized power for many
years by way of showing a bold front to these pestilent corsairs.

This was on August 6, 1801. In 1803 Preble was placed in command of the
Mediterranean fleet, with some lighter ships to go farther up those
shallow harbors. Bainbridge had the misfortune while in pursuit of
a Tripoli frigate to run his ship, the Philadelphia, on a rock,
and to be taken prisoner with all his crew.

The sailors were made slaves.
Lieutenant Decatur penetrated the Tripoli harbor under cover of night,
and burned the Philadelphia to the water's edge.

Tripoli was bombarded, and many of its vessels taken or sunk. Commodore
Barron, who had succeeded Preble, co-operated with a land attack which
some of the Pasha's disaffected subjects, led by the American
General Eaton, made upon Tripoli.

The city was captured, April 27th, and the pirate prince forced to a treaty.
Even now, however, we paid $60,000 in ransom money.

[Illustration: Hand-to-fighting with swords and pistols.]

Lieutenant Decatur on the Turkish Vessel during the Bombardment of
Tripoli.

CHAPTER X.

THE WAR OF 1812
[1807]
Although paying, so long as Jay's treaty was in force, for certain
invasions of our commerce, Great Britain had never adopted a just
attitude toward neutral trade.

She persisted in loosely defining contraband and blockade, and in
denouncing as unlawful all commerce which was opened to us as neutrals
merely by war or carried on by us between France and French colonies
through our own ports.

The far more flagrant abuse of impressment, the forcible seizure
of American citizens for service in the British navy, became
intolerably prevalent during Jefferson's administration.

Not content with reclaiming deserters or asserting the eternity of
British citizenship, Great Britain, through her naval authorities,
was compelling thousands of men of unquestioned American birth to
help fight her battles.

Castlereagh himself admitted that there had been sixteen hundred
bona fide cases of this sort by January 1, 1811.

And in her mode of asserting and exercising even her just claims she
ignored international law, as well as the dignity and sovereignty of the
United States. The odious right of search she most shamefully
abused.

The narrow seas about England were assumed to be British waters,
and acts performed in American harbors admissible only on the open
ocean.

When pressed by us for apology or redress, the British Government showed
no serious willingness to treat, but a brazen resolve to utilize our
weak and too trustful policy of peace.

One instance of this shall suffice.

Commodore Barron, in command of the United States war vessel Chesapeake,
was attacked by the Leopard, a British two-decker of fifty guns,
outside the mouth of Chesapeake Bay, to recover three sailors,
falsely alleged to be British-born, on board.

Their surrender being refused, the Leopard opened fire. The Chesapeake
received twenty-one shots in her hull, and lost three of her crew
killed and eighteen wounded.

She had been shamefully unprepared for action, and was hence forced to
strike, but Humphreys, the Leopard's commander, contemptuously
declined to take her a prize.

There was no excuse whatever for this wanton and criminal insult to our
flag, yet the only reparation ever made was formal, tardy, and lame.

[Illustration: Portrait.] James Madison.
From a painting by Gilbert Stuart--property of T. Jefferson Coolidge.

Bad was changed to worse with the progress of the new and more
desperate war between Great Britain and Napoleon.

The Emperor shut the North-German ports to Britain; Britain declared
Prussian and all West European harbors in a state of blockade.

The Emperor's Berlin decree, November, 1806, paper-blockaded the
British Isles; his Milan decree, December, 1807, declared forfeited
all vessels, wherever found, proceeding to or from any British port,
or having submitted to British search or tribute.

In fine, Britain would treat as illicit all commerce with the continent,
France all with Britain. But while Napoleon, in fact, though not avowedly,
more and more receded from his position, England maintained hers with
iron tenacity.

[1810]
Sincere as was our Government's desire to maintain strict neutrality in the
European conflict, it naturally found difficulty in making England so
believe.

Their opponents at home ceaselessly charged Jefferson, Madison, and all the
Republicans with partiality to France, so that Canning and Castlereagh
were misled; and they were confirmed in their suspicion by Napoleon's
crafty assumption that our embargo or non-intercourse policy was
meant to act, as it confessedly did, favorably to France.

Napoleon's confiscation of our vessels, at one time sweeping, he
advertised as a friendly proceeding in aid of our embargo.
Yet all this did not, as Castlereagh captiously pretended, prove
our neutrality to be other than strict and honest.

At this time it certainly was both. So villainously had Napoleon treated
us that all Americans now hated him as heartily as did any people
in England

.

[1812]
The non-intercourse mode of hostility, a boomerang at best, had played
itself out before Jefferson's retirement; and since George's ministry
showed no signs whatever of a changed temper, guiltily ill-prepared
as we were, no honorable or safe course lay before us but to fight Great
Britain. Clay, Calhoun, Quincy Adams, and Monroe--the last the soul of the
war--deserved the credit of seeing this first and clearest, and of the most
sturdy and consistent action accordingly.

Their spirit proved infectious, and the Republicans swiftly became a war
party.

Most of the "war-hawks," as they were derisively styled, were from the South
and the southern Middle States.

Fearing that, if it were a naval war, glory would redound to New England
and New York, which were hotbeds of the peace party, they wished this
to be a land war, and shrieked, "On to Canada." They made a great
mistake.

The land operations were for the most part indescribably disgraceful. Except
the exploits of General Brown and Colonel Winfield Scott, subsequently
the head of the national armies, not an action on the New York
border but ingloriously failed.

The national Capitol was captured and burnt, a deed not more disgraceful
to England in the commission than to us in the permission. Of the
officers in command of armies, only Harrison and Jackson earned
laurels.

Harrison had learned warfare as Governor of Indiana, where, on November
7, 1811, he had fought the battle of Tippecanoe, discomfiting Tecumseh's
braves and permanently quieting Indian hostilities throughout that
territory.

In the new war against England, after Hull's pusillanimous surrender of
Detroit, the West loudly and at length with success demanded "Tippecanoe"
as commander for the army about to advance into Canada.

Their estimate of Harrison proved just. Overcoming many difficulties and
aided by Perry's flotilla on Lake Erie, he pursued Proctor, his retreating
British antagonist, up the River Thames to a point beyond Sandwich.

Here the British made a stand, but a gallant charge of Harrison's
Kentucky cavalry irreparably broke their lines.

The Indians, led by old Tecumseh in person, made a better fight, but in vain.
The victory was complete, and Upper Canada lay at our mercy.

[Illustration: Portrait.] Tecumseh

Andrew Jackson also began his military experience by operations
against Indians.

The southern redskins had been incited to war upon us by British
and Spanish emissaries along the Florida line.

Tecumseh had visited them in the same interest. The horrible massacre at
Fort Mims, east of the Alabama above its junction with the Tombigbee,
was their initial work.

Five hundred and fifty persons were there surprised, four hundred of them
slain or burned to death.

Jackson took the field, and in an energetic campaign, with several
bloody engagements, forced them to peace.

By the battle of the Horse-Shoe, March 27, 1814, the Creek power
was entirely crushed.

Subsequently placed in command of our force at New Orleans, Jackson
was attacked by a numerous British army, made up in large part of
veterans who had seen service under Wellington in Spain.

Pakenham, the hero of Salamanca, commanded. Jackson's position was well
chosen and strongly fortified.

After several preliminary engagements, each favorable to the American
arms, Pakenham essayed to carry the American works by storm.
The battle occurred on January 8, 1815.

         It was desperately fought on both sides,
           but at its close Jackson's loss had been
         trifling and his line had not been broken at a
           single point, while the British had lost at least 2,600, all but
500 of these killed or wounded.

         The British immediately withdrew from
           the Mississippi, leaving Jackson entirely
         master of the position.
           

         But the naval operations of this war
           were far the most famous, exceeding in
         their success all that the most sanguine
           had dared to hope, and forever dispelling from our proud foe the
charm of naval invincibility.

         The American frigate Constitution
           captured the British Guerriere. The Wasp took
         the Frolic, being soon, however, forced
           to surrender with her prize to the Poitiers, a much larger vessel.

         The United States vanquished the Macedonian, and
           the Constitution the Java. One of the best fought
         actions of the war was that of McDonough
           on Lake Champlain, with his craft mostly gunboats or galleys.

         His victory restored to us the
           possession of Northern New York,
         which our land forces had not been
           able to maintain.

         
           
         [Illustration: Portrait.] Oliver H,
           Perry.

         
           
         [1813-1814]
           The crowning naval triumph during the war, one of the most brilliant,
in fact, in all naval annals, was won by Oliver Hazard Perry near
Put-in-Bay on Lake Erie, September 10, 1813, over the Briton,
Barclay, a naval veteran who had served under Nelson at Trafalgar.

         The fleets were well matched, the American
           numbering the more vessels but the fewer
         guns. Barclay greatly exceeded Perry in long
           guns, having the latter at painful disadvantage until he got near.

         Perry's flag-ship, the Lawrence, was early
           disabled. Her decks were drenched with blood,
         and she had hardly a gun that could be
           served.

         Undismayed, Perry, with his insignia of
           command, crossed in a little boat to the
         Niagara. Again proudly hoisting his colors,
           aided by the wind and followed by his whole squadron, he pressed
for close quarters, where desperate fighting speedily won the battle.

         Barclay and his next in command were wounded,
           the latter dying that night. "We have met
         the enemy and they are ours," Perry wrote to
           Harrison, "two ships, two brigs, one schooner, and one sloop."

         Triumph far more complete might have attended the war
           but for the perverse and factious federalist
         opposition to the administration. Some
           Federalists favored joining England out and out against Napoleon.

         Having with justice denounced Jefferson's
           embargo tactics as too tame, yet
         when the war spirit rose and even the
           South stood ready to resent foreign affronts by force, they changed
tone, harping upon our weakness and favoring peace at any price.

         Tireless in magnifying the importance of
           commerce, they would not lift a hand to defend
         it. The same men who had cursed Adams for
           avoiding war with France easily framed excuses for orders in
council, impressment, and the Chesapeake affair.

         Apart from Randolph and the few opposition
           Republicans, mostly in New York, this
         Thersites band had its seat in commercial
           New England, where embargo and war of course sat hardest, more
than a sixth of our entire tonnage belonging to Massachusetts alone.

         From the Essex Junto and its sympathizers
           came nullification utterances not less pointed
         than the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions,
           although, considering the sound rebukes which the latter had evoked,
they were far less defensible.

         Disunion was freely threatened, and
           actions either committed or
         countenanced bordering hard upon treason.
           The Massachusetts Legislature in 1809 declared Congress's act to
enforce embargo "not legally binding."

         Governor Trumbull of Connecticut declined to
           aid, as requested by the President,
         in carrying out that act, summoning
           the Legislature "to interpose their protecting shield" between the
people and "the assumed power of the general Government."

         "How," wrote Pickering, referring to the Constitution,
           Amendment X., "are the powers reserved
         to be maintained, but by the respective
           States judging for themselves and putting their negative on the
usurpations of the general Government?"

         A sermon of President Dwight's on the text,
           "Come out from among them and be ye
         separate, saith the Lord," even Federalists
           deprecated as hinting too strongly at secession.

         This unpatriotic agitation, from which, be
           it said, large numbers of Federalists
         nobly abstained, came to a head in the
           mysterious Hartford Convention, at the close of 1814, and soon
began to be sedulously hushed--in consequence of the glorious news
of victory and peace from Ghent and New Orleans.

         [Illustration: Five men in a small boat on the
           ocean. They are surrounded by smoke and
         bursting shells.] Perry transferring his
           Colors from the Lawrence to the Niagara.

         
           
         While the Congregationalists, especially
           their clergy, were nearly all stout Federalists, opposing Jefferson,
Madison, and the war, the Methodists and Baptists almost to a man
stood up for the administration and its war policy with the utmost
vigor, rebuking the peace party as traitors.

         [Footnote: The writer's grandfather, a
           Baptist minister, was as good as driven from
         his pulpit and charge at Templeton, Mass.,
           because of his federalist sympathies in this war.]

         Timothy Merritt, a mighty Methodist preacher on
           the Connecticut circuit, has left
         us from these critical times a stirring
           sermon on the text, Judges v. 23, "Curse ye Meroz, said the angel
of the Lord, curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because
they came not up to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord
against the mighty."

Meroz was the federalist party and England's ministry and army were "the
mighty."

Czar Alexander, regarding our hostility as dangerous to England, with
whom he then stood allied against Napoleon, sought to end the war. The
Russian campaign of 1812 practically finished Napoleon's career,
so leaving England free to press operations in America.

In April, 1814, Paris was captured. The United States therefore accepted
Alexander's offices.

Our commissioners, Adams, Clay, Gallatin, Marshall, Bayard, and Russell
met the English envoys at Ghent, and after long discussions, in
which more than once it seemed as if the war must proceed, the
treaty of Ghent was executed, December 24, 1814, a fortnight before
the battle of New Orleans.

"So we will begin with the Royal Museum to-morrow morning," he added; "and
all who are up in good season can take a trip with me, in one of those
shallops, around the lake."

After the children had retired, Mr. and Mrs. Hyde held a consultation
about Eric. They expected the arrival of Dr. Ward and their nephew daily,
and were in hopes of seeing them before the steamer should sail. But there
was just a chance that the doctor might be delayed at Paris; and if it
should so happen, what would Eric do?

His parents were unwilling to disappoint him by taking him to New York
without making the desired tour of Germany; and they disliked the idea of
leaving him, a young boy of thirteen, alone in a strange place.

But his father at length decided to let him remain at the Vyverberg House,
in case the doctor should be detained until after they had sailed.

Eric was a thoughtful, reliable boy, and old enough, his father said, to
learn to depend upon himself.

Mrs. Hyde felt some misgivings as to this course at first; but her
confidence in Eric was so great, that she soon consented to it, and having
once decided in favor of the plan, she would let no thought of it trouble
her.

You may be sure that the three children did not need an "early call" in
the morning, for they were up and dressed with the daylight, having a romp
on their balcony with Froll, who frightened several of the occupants of
adjacent rooms by trying to get in at their windows.

Nettie told Eric how Froll had got her into disgrace, the day before, by
the same trick.

"I think," said Eric, "that she must once have belonged to an
organ-grinder, and have been taught to climb up for money."

"Very likely," said Allan. "But you had better break her of the trick.
People, as a general thing, are not fond of the sudden appearance of a
black monkey at their chamber windows."

"Here's papa!" cried Nettie. "Now for our sail!"

"Isn't Mrs. Hyde coming?" Allan asked.

"Here she is! Good morning, mamma, and--O, Eric, mind Froll!" cried
Nettie; but too late, for Froll had darted from him, and gone in at an
open window above.

There was a breathless silence.

Mr. and Mrs. Hyde were very much annoyed, and the children were alarmed
for the safety of their pet.

While they were momentarily expecting a scream of terror from the occupant
of the room, Froll reappeared at the window, and, with a grin and chatter
of defiance, tumbled out, and clambered down towards the children, with a
pair of gold-rimmed eye-glasses in her hand. A night-capped head, thrust
out after her, was withdrawn again hastily, as its owner's eyes
encountered those of Mrs. Hyde.

Saucy Froll perched herself upon the top of the parlor blind, stuck the
glasses upon her nose, and peered down at the children, who greeted this
manoeuvre with an irresistible burst of laughter, in which their father
and mother joined.

The owner of the glasses again thrust his head out at the window, minus
the nightcap this time, and seeing the monkey, laughed as heartily as the
others.

Leaning forward, he could reach the chain, which he caught; and then Froll
was made to surrender her plunder; after which she was committed to her
cage in disgrace.

The sail on the lake was delightful. The water was as smooth as glass, the
air fresh and cool, and the little island in the lake's centre was crowded
with song birds, whose sweet, merry notes rang musically over the water,
and were echoed back from the shore.

After breakfast they prepared to visit the places of interest in
"Gravenhaag."

Mr. Hyde led the way to the National Museum, occupying the Prince Maurice
palace--an elegant building of the seventeenth century. Numerous guides
offered their services, and when one had been engaged, our party followed
him up a broad, solid stairway to the famous picture gallery. Most of the
paintings were old pieces of the German masters, and did not interest the
children so much as their parents, for they were too young to appreciate
them. But in one of the rooms almost entirely covering one end, was a
grand picture, so vivid and natural that Nettie was quite startled by it
at first. It was a picture of a young bull spotted white and brown, a cow
lazily resting on the grass before it, a few sheep in different attitudes,
and an aged cowherd leaning upon a fence. The background of the picture
was a distant landscape, and all the objects were life-size.

"That picture is Paul Potter's Bull--a highly prized work of art," said
Mr. Hyde. "When the French invaded Holland, Napoleon ordered it to Paris,
to be hung in the Louvre."

"I suppose it didn't go, as it's here now," remarked Allan.

"Yes, it was carried there, and excited much admiration. But when Holland
was free of the French, and Germany victorious, the painting was
reclaimed."

The children could have staid, gazing with delight upon it, for a much
longer time than was allowed them. The guide soon led the way to the Royal
Museum of Curiosities, and they reluctantly followed. The collection of
curiosities was in the lower part of the building, and here they saw all
kinds of Chinese and Japanese articles, which, the guide informed them,
was the largest and best collection of the kind in the world.

There was enough here to interest our young folks, and old folks, too.

All kinds of merchandise and manufactures, and most interesting and
complicated toys, model cities, barges gayly-colored and filled with tiny
men at work on tinier oars, pagodas, shops, temples, huts, houses,
vehicles, and men, women, and children in every variety of costume,
engaged in every conceivable employment.

So fascinating was this Museum that the entire morning was most agreeably
spent in it; and there was but just time, before leaving it, to look into
the historical department, where were many objects of interest, and among
other things the armor and weapons of De Ruyter, the famous admiral. At
any other time these would have possessed great interest for the boys; but
now they rather slighted them for the unique toys of China and Japan.

After their dinner and a half hour's rest, the children paid a visit to
the king's palace; for Gravenhaag, you must know, is the favorite
residence of the king and court.

Nettie and the boys walked very carefully, and held themselves very
properly, such a thing as a visit to the king's palace not being a daily
event with them. Although she would not have missed going for anything,
Nettie was a little alarmed at their situation, as they drew near to the
palace, a large Grecian building, with two wings, forming three sides of a
square. She had an idea that whenever kings were displeased with people,
they ordered their heads to be cut off; and she wondered if he _would_ be
pleased to have their party looking at his possessions. Her fears were
groundless, however.

As they reached the square, they saw, near the entrance to the palace, a
fine-looking man, well dressed and gentlemanly, who smiled kindly at the
children, and, seeing their eager scrutiny of the palace, politely invited
them to enter it.

The boys were delighted, but Nettie declared that she was afraid of the
king.

"O, the king will not trouble you, my little maid," said the stranger, in
excellent English: "walk in, walk in!"

He held out his hand to Nettie, and was such a kind, pleasant-looking man,
that Nettie's fears vanished. She gave him her hand, and the two boys
followed her into the palace. Yes, actually _into_ it, when, a few minutes
before, she had hardly dared venture a terrified glance at the outside,
and was momentarily expecting the stern command,--

"Off with their heads!"

Their new friend led them to a lovely garden, gave them flowers and fruit,
and chatted gayly with them all the time. Then he took them to several
apartments of the palace, and finally into the drawing-room.

The children noticed that every one made a respectful bow to their kind
escort, and concluded that he must be some great nobleman; but judge of
their surprise, when they found themselves being presented by him to a
beautiful, pale lady, quietly dressed in black.

"Alicia, my dear," said their nobleman, still speaking in English, "I have
brought these young American travellers to see you. My little friends," to
the children, "yonder lady is the _Queen of Holland_."

Wasn't _that_ enough to confuse the best bred child in the world?

Poor Eric had a faint idea that he must kiss the queen's toe, as a mark of
courtesy, and stepped forward, with a dizzy singing in his ears, to do so.
But he was saved from such a ridiculous situation by the gentle queen, who
smiled and extended her hand; then Eric thankfully remembered that it was
the queen's hand and the pope's toe. So he bent gracefully forward and
kissed Queen Alicia's white fingers.

Allan, of course, did the same. And Nettie had no time to consider what
she must do, for the queen had kissed her quite warmly at first, and their
strange guide had drawn her to his knee.

"Why did you fear the king, little maid?" he asked, so kindly that Nettie
confessed her idea of majestic temperaments. How he laughed! and how the
queen laughed, too!

"Now, I suppose you will want to go to mamma," he said, soon afterwards;
and giving them each a gold coin, added, "Keep these to remember me by,
and you can tell your friends that the _King of Holland_ gave them to
you."

The children were perfectly amazed, and could not speak their thanks
properly; but of this the king took no notice. He led them to the entrance
on the street, and then kindly said, "Good by."

Mr. and Mrs. Hyde, who had become quite anxious over their long delay,
were much relieved to see the children come safely home just before
tea-time. They were quite as much astonished, by the account of the visit,
as our young folks had supposed they would be.

Tea, on the balcony, and some quiet music in the evening, finished up the
day; and when the tired children sought their pillows, they quickly fell
asleep.


CHAPTER VI.

A DUTCH CITY.


It would take too long to mention all the sights seen and famous places
visited by the travellers in Gravenhaag.

They were admitted to the palace of the Prince of Orange, and saw his
famous collection of paintings and chalk drawings. They went over the
_Binnenhof_, which is a collection of ancient stone buildings, containing
a handsome Gothic hall, and the prison in which Grotius and Barneveldt
were confined, the churches, synagogues, and the royal library, and walked
on the _Voorhout_, a beautiful promenade, with a fine, wide road lined
with shade trees and furnished with benches, to the _Bosch_, a finely
wooded park belonging to the King of Holland. In its centre, reached by
winding walks among the trees and beautiful lakes, stands the _Huys in den
Bosch_--house in the wood--the king's summer palace.

After visiting all these places, and the printing establishments and iron
foundery, Mr. Hyde, finding he had another day before the steamer sailed,
took them all to Rotterdam. They went by railway to the city, and drove
around it in an open carriage, like a barouche, which was waiting at the
depot. Mr. Hyde, who had been there before, was quite familiar with the
place. He ordered the coachman to drive through the High Street; and soon
the children found themselves on a street considerably higher than the
others, lined with shops, and looking very pleasant and busy. Mr. Hyde
told them it was built upon the dam which prevented the Maas River from
overflowing.

"And this is the only street in Rotterdam," said he, "which has not a
canal in its centre."

[Illustration: The Queen of Holland.--Page 61.]

When they had gone the length of High Street, they came to street after
street, each having a canal in the middle, lined with trees on both sides,
and exhibiting a medley of high gable fronts of houses, trees, and masts
of shipping.

"Dear me!" cried Nettie; "I wouldn't live in such a place for the world.
It's pretty to look at; but think of having those ships going by right
under the drawing-room windows. They make me giddy."

"How many canals!" cried Allan. "They go lengthwise and crosswise through
every street but the High."

"And these clumsy bridges," said Nettie again, pointing to the drawbridges
of white painted wood which they saw at every little distance; they were
made of large, heavy beams overhead, and lifted by chains for the vessels
to pass through.

Under the trees, beside the canals, were yellow brick "sidewalks," as
Nettie called them; but they were really quays, for the landing of goods.

Between the trees and the houses, on a coarse, rough pavement, among
carts, drays, and carriages, walked the foot passengers quite frequently.
For though there were sidewalks close to the houses, little outbuildings
and flights of steps to doorways were continually in the way, and it was
"impossible for one to walk straight along, or at all fast, on any of
them," as the children said.

"Mamma," said Nettie, "I should think they would break their necks every
minute. Just look at those canals, right in the street, and nothing to
keep people from falling into them. What do they do in dark nights?"

"How do they light the streets, papa?" asked Eric.

"By oil lamps, hung on ropes from the houses to the trees," said Mr. Hyde.
"They have gas on the High Street."

Allan's attention had been attracted by some curious little structures
outside the lower windows of several of the houses.

"What are they?" he asked.

"Looking-glasses," said Mr. Hyde.

"Looking-glasses, papa! _Outside_ their windows?" exclaimed Nettie.

"Yes, dear; they are hung so as to reflect the passing objects to the
people inside."

"Then they can see whatever is going on in the streets below, without
coming to the windows," said Eric.

"What a funny custom!" exclaimed Nettie, again.

The only building they visited was the Church of St. Lawrence, where they
saw the famous great organ, a splendid structure, larger than the great
organs of Haarlem and Boston. It is one hundred and fifty feet high,
mounted upon a colonnade fifty feet high, and has five thousand five
hundred pipes.

In the market-place they saw a statue of the great scholar Erasmus, and
"the house where he was born," which is now, alas! a gin-shop. From the
_Boomptjes_, a fine quay, planted with rows of beautiful trees, and
surrounded by elegant, dark brick mansions, our party chartered a little
sail boat, and went out upon the Maas.

The beautiful, quiet Maas, with Rotterdam's green, woody banks in view;
the blue, blue sky, seen clearly in the limpid waters; the steamers coming
and going, and birds flying around, adding their sweet notes to nature's
harmony--this beautiful picture was one remembered by the children all
their lives. To-morrow's parting hung its shadow over them, and softened
their hearts to the true beauty everywhere expressed.

The sun had set when they reached the Vyverberg for the last time.

"Mamma," said Eric, regretfully, "I almost wish I was going home with you
all."

"Uncle Charlie may come to-night," said his mother, cheerfully. "At any
rate, he will soon come. You would then wish you had staid."

"Yes, I know," said Eric. "But it is very hard to let you all go home
without me, for all that."

Very careful directions were given to Eric, and he was placed under the
care of the landlord until he should hear from his uncle.

The evening was very short to Eric, who lingered by his mother, and could
not bear to leave her side, knowing he should see her no more for a long,
long year.

Long after Nettie and Allan had left them, he staid with his parents,
listening to their last kind advice, and sending little loving messages to
his cousins and schoolmates.

In the morning he saw them off with a heavy heart. His father's last kind
words, Allan's affectionate greeting, Nettie's tears, and his promise to
his mother that he would remember his prayers and daily chapter in the
Bible, and would try to make his travels a useful, profitable study, and
to keep himself truthful, honest, and kind, were mixed up with a hearty,
homesick longing to go after them. His eyes filled with tears as the
stretch of water between him and his dear ones rapidly widened; he turned
from the wharf with a sorrowful face, slowly and sadly retracing his steps
to the hotel.

"How dismal it will be! how lonely and dismal without them!" He thought
and murmured sorrowfully,--

                    "Alone, alone, all, all alone!"


CHAPTER VII.

UNDER THE SEA.


Eric had been but a few minutes in the parlor at the hotel, and was trying
to amuse himself with little Froll, when there came a tap upon the door,
and the servant entered with a card.

Eric read the name,

                             EMIL LACELLE,

and written underneath,

                       _No. 365 Vyverberg House._

"Who in the world," thought Eric, "is Emil Lacelle? and what did he send
this to me for?"

The waiter explained that the gentleman was waiting, in his room, up
stairs; and Eric, with Froll on his shoulder, started for No. 365.

The door stood open, disclosing a pleasant room, with various kinds of
odd-looking armor lying around: seated by a table was a gentleman dressed
in black, whom Eric recognized at once as the one whose glasses Froll had
stolen.

This gentleman was looking for Eric, and said at once, when he entered the
room,--

"I am pleased to see you, monsieur," and politely requested him to be
seated.

"Do you speak French?" he asked.

"Not very well, sir," answered Eric.

"German?" inquired the stranger.

"Yes, sir," said Eric.

"And English?"

"Yes, sir; I am an American."

"I am a Frenchman," said Mr. Lacelle. "I want you, if you please, to do me
a little service."

"I will do anything that I can for you," said Eric. "I am very much
obliged to you already for being so good-natured about your glasses."

"Do not mention it!" Mr. Lacelle exclaimed, with the natural politeness of
a Frenchman. "I have taken quite a fancy to your playful little beast."
And he coaxed the monkey to him, and gently stroked her soft hair.

"What is it that I can do for you, sir?" asked Eric. He was beginning to
like Mr. Lacelle very much.

"I have a letter to write to America, and am not enough of an English
scholar to undertake it. Now, therefore, if I tell to you that which I
want written, would you be so very kind, if you please, as to write for
me, it?"

"Yes, indeed; with much pleasure," said Eric; thinking the while, "No
wonder he does not like to undertake a letter in English, when he speaks
the language so clumsily."

Mr. Lacelle, still holding Froll, brought forward a traveller's
writing-desk, filled with perfumed French paper, and then placing it
before Eric, and saying politely, "At your convenience, _monsieur_," he
reseated himself.

Eric arranged the paper, took up a pen, and after writing the date, sat
waiting for his instructions.

"For example, what do you say to two gentlemen?" asked Mr. Lacelle.

Eric was completely puzzled, and could only say, "Sir?"

"Pardon me!" exclaimed the Frenchman, "to _one_ you would say 'sir;' but
to two, would you say 'sirs'?"

"Yes," answered Eric, but, recollecting some letters he had copied for his
father, added, "O, no: it's _Messrs._"

"Exactly!" said Mr. Lacelle. "I thank you. That is fine."

He appeared quite relieved, and began dictating.

                                     "The Vyverberg, at the Hague,
                                          Holland, October 21, 186-.

  "Messrs. Brown and Lang:

  "I have given to myself the pleasure of examining the sunken yacht in
  the Zuyder Zee; and my opinion it is, that that vessel is injured not
  in the least, and that I can right her for the sum of two hundred
  dollars.

                               "Most respectfully to you, Messrs.,
                                                     Emil Lacelle,
                                                  _Submarine Diver._

  "To Messrs. Brown and Lang,
    New York City."

"Is it quite correct English?" he asked, anxiously.

Eric rewrote it, transposing some of the words. Mr. Lacelle was very
grateful for the boy's assistance. He was by no means ignorant, but his
knowledge of English was rather limited, and he was too sensitive to be
willing to send off a peculiar letter.

Mr. Lacelle's history would be very interesting, had we time to give it
minutely; but there is only space to say that he was the younger son of a
noble French family, whose circumstances during his youth were so
unfortunate that he was thrown upon his own resources at a tender age, and
had, by great energy and perseverance, become a wealthy and famous man.

Eric knew that "sub" meant under, and "marine" the sea, but he did not
understand exactly what it all meant; so he asked Mr. Lacelle, whose
explanation and subsequent conversation, we will render in readable
English.

"A submarine diver is one who goes beneath the water of the sea:
professionally he examines and clears harbors, removing obstructions, such
as rocks, &c.; draws up sunken vessels, examines wrecks, and brings up
from the depths of the ocean money, jewels, and articles of value."

"But tell me," cried Eric, eagerly, "how does he breathe? what protects
him in the water? how--"

"I will tell you all about it," said Mr. Lacelle. "There are several
divers here in the house. We are going to the Zuyder Zee, near Amsterdam,
to-morrow, and you shall go too, if you wish."

"O, thank you, sir," said Eric. "I would like to."

"Meanwhile I will tell you," proceeded the diver. "We wear an armor such
as this," he explained, pointing out the several pieces to Eric, as he
noticed them. "In the first place an India-rubber suit like this. You will
observe that it is made entirely water-proof, by being cemented down in
the seams, wherever it is sewed."

Eric looked with interest upon the clumsy-looking dress, which was made
entirely whole, except the opening at the sleeves and neck, and was cut
away above the shoulders, like a girl's low-necked dress, to admit the
body of the wearer; the legs were footed off like stockings, and the
wrists of the sleeves were terminated by tight, elastic rubber bands; a
similar band surrounded the neck, which was also finished with a flap of
white rubber facing.

"You see," continued Mr. Lacelle, "we put ourselves into this suit,
drawing it on from the top. It is perfectly water-tight. Upon our feet we
wear shoes such as these," pointing to a pair of heavy leather shoes, with
broad, high straps and buckles, and lead soles half an inch thick. "They
weigh twenty-five pounds."

"Why!" exclaimed Eric; "I should call that something of a load."

"The weight is imperceptible in the water," the diver explained, and,
showing Eric a couple of box-shaped canvas bags, added, "We wear these
also, filled with weights, just above the waist, one before and one
behind."

"But you haven't told me yet how you breathe in the water," said Eric.

"I am coming to that shortly. Upon our heads we wear a helmet, made of
copper, completely covering head, face, and neck, and firmly inserted
between the rubber facing and the tight band about the neck of the dress,
just above the shoulders. To the back of the helmet is fastened a rubber
hose, attached, above the water, to the pump, which keeps the diver
supplied with air; and there is a glass window in the front. A half-inch
rope, called the life-line, is securely adjusted to the diver, and by it
he is lowered into or drawn from the water; and by it, also, he signals to
those above for more air, for withdrawal, or anything he may require."

"This helmet is heavy enough," said Eric, lifting and examining the
curious structure. "There is a valve inside: what is that for?"

"To let the air, which the diver breathes from his lungs, into the water,"
Mr. Lacelle replied. "This machine in the case," pointing to a high
black-walnut case, "is a three-cylinder air-pump; two men in the vessel,
or on the shore, keep the pumps constantly in motion by means of the crank
attached to the wheel."

"Why do they have more than one pump?" Eric inquired.

"One pump," answered Mr. Lacelle, "would not supply enough air; it would
work like a water-pump, sending down the air by jerks, and the receiver
would be exhausted between the supplies of air. Two pumps would send down
the air puff-puff, like the pumps of a steam engine; but three pumps,
constantly in motion, send down, through the hose, a steady and continuous
stream of air, enabling the diver to breathe freely and fully."

"And can you go down into any depth of water?" Eric asked, with intense
interest.

"Not lower than one hundred feet, usually, the pressure of the water is so
great. I have been down one hundred and fifty-six feet below the surface;
but that was something very remarkable."

"And did you never have any hair-breadth escapes, or thrilling
adventures?" inquired Eric.

"No," answered the diver, with a slight laugh and shrug of the shoulders,
"I never did, and never knew any one who did, although I have read of many
such incidents, altogether too marvellous for belief. You see," he
continued, "we know that the least carelessness would probably cost us our
lives, and we are minutely accurate about all our equipments. And,"
lowering his voice and speaking reverentially, "I always commit myself to
the guidance and tender care of the good Shepherd.

"'They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great
waters,

"'These see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.

"'They cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of
their distress.'"

Eric listened, and his respect and esteem for the diver grew tenfold
more.

Mr. Lacelle continued:--

"It is a strange business. The danger fascinates some, but the peril is
never lost sight of. I put on the helmet, for the first time, more than
ten years ago; and yet I never resume it without a feeling that it may be
the last time I shall ever go down. Of course one has more confidence
after a while; but there is something in being shut up in an armor weighed
down with a hundred pounds, and knowing that a little leak in your
life-pipe is your death, that no diver can get rid of. And I do not know
that I should care to banish the feeling, for the sight of the clear blue
sky, the genial sun, and the face of a fellow-man after long hours among
the fishes, makes you feel like one who has suddenly been drawn away from
the grasp of death."

"Were you ever in great danger?" asked Eric.

"I think the most dangerous place I ever got into was going down to
examine the propeller Comet, sunk off Toledo. In working about her bottom,
I got my air-pipe coiled over a large sliver from the stoven hole, and
could not reach it with my hands. Every time I sprang up to remove the
hose, my tender would give me the 'slack' of the line, thus letting me
fall back again. He did not understand his duties, and did not know what
my signals on the life-line meant. It was two hours and a half before I
was relieved, and there was not a moment that I was not looking to see the
hose cut by the ragged wood. It's a strange feeling you have down there.
You go walking over a vessel, clambering up her sides, peering here and
there, and the feeling that you are alone makes you nervous and uneasy.

"Sometimes a vessel sinks down so fairly, that she stands up on the bottom
as trim and neat as if she rode upon the surface. Then you can go down
into the cabin, up the shrouds, walk all over her, just as easy as a
sailor could if she were still dashing away before the breeze. Only it
seems quiet, so tomb-like; there are no waves down there--only a swaying
back and forth of the waters, and a see-sawing of the ship. You hear
nothing from above. The great fishes will come swimming about, rubbing
their noses against your glass, and staring with a wonderful look into
your eyes. The very stillness sometimes gives life a chill. You hear just
a moaning, wailing sound, like the last notes of an organ, and you cannot
help thinking of dead men floating over and around you.

"A diver does not like to go down more than a hundred and twenty feet; at
that depth the pressure is painful, and there is danger of internal
injury. I can stay down, for five or six hours at a time, at a hundred and
fifteen or twenty feet, and do a good deal of hard work. In the waters of
Lake Huron the diver can see thirty or forty feet away, but the other
lakes will screen a vessel not ten feet from you.

"Up here you seldom think of accident or death, but a hundred feet of
water washing over your head would set you to thinking. A little stoppage
of the air-pump, a leak in your hose, a careless action on the part of
your tender, and a weight of a mountain would press the life out of you
before you could make a move. And you may 'foul' your pipe or line
yourself, and in your haste bring on what you dread. I often get my hose
around a stair or rail, and generally release it without much trouble; the
bare idea of what a slender thing holds back the clutch of death off my
throat makes a cold sweat start from every pore."

"I suppose you find many beautiful things," said Eric.

"I wish I could describe half the wonderful and beautiful things I find,"
cried Mr. Lacelle.

"There are flowers, the most exquisite that can be imagined; groves of
coral, beautiful caverns, with floors of silver sand, spiral caves winding
down, down, down, covered with beautiful, delicate plants, and leading to
beds of smooth, hard sand, which shine like gold. Feathery ferns turn
silver and crimson beneath your hand, and beautiful fish glide around you,
or rest in the water, with no motion save the gentle pulsation of their
gills as they breathe.

"I have stood upon the bottom of the ocean, and gazed up, awe-stricken and
bewildered, at the wonderful masses of coral above my head, resembling
forests of monstrous trees, with gnarled and twisted branches intertwined;
and when I have considered that it was all the work of insects so tiny
that millions of them were working at my feet, and I could not see them, I
have compared my own littleness in the universe with the wonderful work of
the least of them, and have felt my own insignificance.

"And curious things have happened, too. I was once examining an old wreck
off South America. It was an old Spanish frigate, supposed to have
valuable jewels and a large amount of money aboard.

"I was walking over the wreck one day, and, being disappointed in not
finding any treasure, was about returning, when I observed a curious heap
of shells, close to one of the stanchions. I picked off a handful from the
top of the heap, which was about two feet high, and regularly piled in a
conical form, and seeing the shells were of a most beautiful pink color,
and very delicate, I filled my pockets with them, and then, touching the
life-lines, was pulled up.

"The divers in my employ were delighted with them, and as they were just
the right size for buttons, one of the boys went down, with a large bag,
to bring off the rest.

"I told him just where to find them; but when he came up, he declared
there were none to be seen anywhere.

"I was sure he had not followed my directions; so I went down again; and
judge my surprise when I found he had spoken truly. _There was not one to
be seen._ The little wretches, disgusted with the disturbance I created,
had all crawled away."

"How curious!" exclaimed Eric. "Could you not find any of them?"

"Not a vestige of them."

"It was singular--wasn't it?"

"Yes. I have learned many singular things since I have gone under the sea.
For instance, water is a very powerful conductor of sound, much more so
than air. We often blast rocks under the water--"

"How can you?" interrupted Eric. "What keeps the powder dry?"

"We have water-proof charges prepared."

"But how can you fire them under the water?" persisted Eric.

"By electricity," responded Mr. Lacelle. "A report of blasting rock a
little distance off, will scarcely disturb us upon the land; but under the
water it is very different. We were once blasting rocks near the coast,
and another party were at work three quarters of a mile from us.

"Our charge was set, and ready to go off; I sent word to our distant
neighbors that we were about to blast, and they had better come up until
it was over. My courtesy was repaid by a very profane answer, accompanied
with a request to 'blast away.'

"So the charge was set off; and the unfortunate divers in the distance
were hauled out of the water more dead than alive. I afterwards learned
from them that the shock was tremendous."

"When you blow up the rocks, do you place the charges under them?"
inquired Eric.

"O, no; that would have no effect: holes are drilled in the rock, and the
charges placed within them."

"And when the rocks are blown, what do you do with the pieces that come
off?" asked Eric.

"We grapple them with hooks and chains, and draw them to the surface."

"It is very interesting, and I am very much obliged to you for telling me
so much," said Eric. "I wish I could learn _all_ about it."

"Well, my boy, you shall go with me to-morrow; and, if you're not afraid
to venture, I'll take you down beneath the sea with me. It is quite safe
near Amsterdam."

"O, thank you, sir," said Eric, eagerly, grasping the kind Frenchman's
hand.

"I must go now to the palace," said Mr. Lacelle. "I have an engagement
there. Will you do me the honor to amuse yourself here until I return?"

"Thank you," said Eric again, with a joyous smile; for Mr. Lacelle's room
was stored with 'curios' from the bottom of the sea, and Eric knew he
could spend a long time very comfortably there.

He was careful to secure Froll in her cage, that she might do no mischief;
and then he had a thoroughly good time, examining the sea things; and as
they were all labelled with name and date, and the place from which they
were taken, he gained much useful information.

Before night a letter came from his uncle, saying that Johnny was quite
ill, and had been unable to travel to the Hague; but he was now so much
better, that they would probably join Eric in a day or two.

"I shan't mind waiting," said Eric to himself; "and there's nothing now to
prevent my going to Amsterdam to-morrow; but I wish uncle Charlie could be
with me too."

Then he remembered that he had been left under the landlord's care, and
must obtain his permission. So he sought him out, and made known his
request.

The landlord of the Vyverberg was a kind-hearted German. He was quite fond
of his little American guest, and readily consented to his plan for the
morrow, telling Eric that Monsieur Lacelle was a remarkable man, and he
could not be in better hands.

"I think this is just the jolliest country, and full of the jolliest
people in the world," was Eric's mental comment before he fell asleep that
night. Indeed, there are few people more kind-hearted, thoughtful, or
hospitable than the Dutch and Germans.

Eric's parents were anxiously wondering how their boy fared alone in
Gravenhaag.

Could they have seen him as he read his promised chapter, and knelt to
commit himself to God, or afterwards, falling asleep, his last thought of
the kindness of the people around him, their own sleep would have been far
lighter, and their prayers would have blessed the good foreigners.


CHAPTER VIII.

THRILLING EXPERIENCE.


Early in the morning they went to Amsterdam, or Amsteldamme, as the
Germans call it, because it controls the tides of the Amstel River.

The city of Amsteldamme is situated on a marsh, and all its houses and
buildings are erected on piles, which are driven from forty to fifty feet
into the earth.

"How many canals!" was Eric's first remark, when he obtained a good view
of the city.

"Yes," said Mr. Lacelle. "When I was a boy, I counted the bridges across
the canals, and there were two hundred and fifty. The city is divided by
the canals into ninety islands. Those high walls were once ramparts, but
have since been converted into public walks. They are planted with trees,
and make excellent promenades."

"But suppose there should be another war," said Eric; "what would their
defence be?"

"They could easily flood the surrounding country."

"What splendid streets these are!" said Eric, as they passed through one
and another with rows of beautiful shade trees, handsome little stone
bridges, broad, clean pavements, and long lines of elegant mansions.

They were indeed very beautiful streets, not easily to be surpassed in all
Europe.

"I should think," said Eric, thoughtfully, "that there would be danger to
the people here in having so much water in their town. Do the dikes ever
give way?"

"Very seldom. The people watch them very faithfully, and whenever a break
is discovered it is instantly repaired. There is a very interesting story
connected with the dikes of Holland, which I will tell you, to show you
what great service a little boy did his country.

"The little hero, Peter Daik, was on his way home, one night, from a
village to which he had been sent by his father on an errand, when he
noticed the water trickling through a narrow opening in the dike, built up
to keep out the sea.

"He stopped, and thought of what would happen if the hole were not
closed.

"He knew--for he had often heard his father tell of the sad disasters
which had come from small beginnings--how, in a few hours, the opening
would become bigger, and let in the mighty mass of water pressing on the
dike, until, the whole defence being washed away, the rolling, dashing,
angry sea would sweep on to the next village, destroying life and
property, and everything in its way. Should he run home and alarm the
villagers? It would be dark before they could arrive; and the hole, even
then, might be so large as to defy all attempts to close it. What could he
do to prevent such terrible ruin--he, only a little boy?

"I will tell what he did. He sat down on the bank of the canal, stopped
the opening with his hand, and patiently awaited the passing of a
villager. But no one came.

"Hour after hour rolled slowly by; yet there sat the heroic boy in the
cold and darkness, shivering, wet, and tired, but stoutly pressing his
hand against the water that tried to pass the dangerous breach.

"All night he staid at his post. At last morning broke, when a clergyman,
walking up the canal, heard a groan, and looking around to see where it
came from, seeing the boy, and surprised at his strange position,
exclaimed with astonishment,--

"'Why are you there, my child?'

"'I am keeping back the water, sir, and saving the village from being
drowned,' answered little Peter, with lips so benumbed with cold that he
could hardly speak.

"The astonished minister at once relieved him of his hard duty, and the
poor little fellow had but just strength enough left to alarm the
villagers, who flocked to the dike, and repaired the breach.

"Heroic boy! What a noble spirit of self-devotion he had shown! resolving
to brave all the fatigue, the danger, the cold and darkness, rather than
permit the ruin which would come if he deserted his post.

"There is a beautiful poem on the subject by Miss Carey. I will repeat a
few of the last verses."

Then Mr. Lacelle repeated in a clear, mellow voice, whose slight foreign
accent lent it an additional charm to Eric's ear,--

             "So faintly calling and crying
               Till the sun is under the sea,--
             Crying and moaning till the stars
               Come out for company.
             He thinks of his brother and sister,
               Asleep in their safe, warm bed;
             He thinks of his father and mother;
               Of himself as dying--and dead;
             And of how, when the night is over,
               They must come and find him at last;
             But he never thinks he can leave the place
               Where duty holds him fast.

             "The good dame in the cottage
               Is up and astir with the light,
             For the thought of her little Peter
               Has been with her all the night.
             And now she watches the pathway,
               As yestereve she had done;
             But what does she see so strange and black
               Against the rising sun?
             Her neighbors are bearing between them
               Something straight to her door;
             Her child is coming home, but not
               As ever he came before.

             "'He is dead!' she cries; 'my darling!'
               And the startled father hears,
             And comes and looks the way she looks,
               And fears the thing she fears;
             Till a glad shout from the bearers
               Thrills the stricken man and wife--
             'Give thanks, for your son has saved our land,
               And God has saved his life!'
             So there in the morning sunshine
               They knelt about the boy,
             And every head was bared and bent
               In tearful, reverent joy.

             "'Tis many a day since then; but still,
               When the sea roars like a flood,
             Their boys are taught what a boy can do
               Who is brave, and true, and good;
             For every man in that country
               Takes his son by the hand,
             And tells him of little Peter,
               Whose courage saved the land.
             They have many a valiant hero
               Remembered through the years,
             But never one whose name so oft
               Is named with loving tears.
             And his deed shall be sung by the cradle,
               And told to the child on the knee,
             So long as the dikes of Holland
               Divide the land from the sea."

They had now come to the Y, an inlet of the Zuyder Zee, where several of
the men under Mr. Lacelle were at work.

"Here we are," said Eric, gladly. "Here we are! Now for my 'thrilling
experience,' as the newspapers say."

There was a tent close by, into which they stepped to change their dress
for the diver's costume.

"Nobody would know me now, I am sure," said Eric to himself, when, with
much difficulty, and considerable help from the attendants, he emerged
from the tent arrayed in the suit. "I can hardly drag my feet along, they
are so heavy; and I'm decidedly glad that my every-day hat is not like
this helmet."

Mr. Lacelle had given him particular directions about diving, and now the
life-line and air-hose were adjusted, and the brave boy stood beside the
professional diver, waiting for the descent.

The signal was given, and soon Eric was going down underneath the blue,
cold waves. He could not see Mr. Lacelle; it seemed as if he were never to
stop going down: the water sang around his ears; and seeing nothing but
water made him giddy and faint. He thought he must certainly smother, and,
for an instant, was thoroughly afraid.

Then he remembered that, at a single touch of the life-line, the men above
would instantly draw him up, and, feeling quite at his ease again, began
to look about him. To his great joy he saw the bottom, and was presently
upon it, and walking towards Mr. The outbreak of the first Burma War, in 1824, brought us into closer
relations with the Raja of Jaintia, and in April of that year Mr.

David Scott, the Governor-General's Agent on the frontier, marched
through his territory from Sylhet to Assam, emerging at Raha on the Kalang
river, in what is now the Nowgong district. This was the first occasion on
which Europeans had entered the hill territory of the Khasi tribes,
and the account of the march, quoted in Pemberton's Report, [5] is
the earliest authentic information which we possess of the institutions
of the Khasi race.

Dr. Buchanan-Hamilton, who spent several years at the beginning of the
19th Century in collecting information regarding the people of Eastern
India, during which he lived for some time at Goalpara in the Brahmaputra
Valley, confused the Khasis with the Garos, and his descriptions
apply only to the latter people.

The name Garo, however, is still used by the inhabitants of Kamrup in speaking
of their Khasi neighbours to the South, and Hamilton only followed
the local usage.

In 1826 Mr. David Scott, after the expulsion of the Burmese from
Assam and the occupation of that province by the Company, entered the Khasi
Hills in order to negotiate for the construction of a road through
the territory of the Khasi Siem or Chief of Nongkhlaw, which should
unite Sylhet with Gauhati.

A treaty was concluded with the chief, and the construction of the
road began. At Cherrapunji Mr. Scott built for himself a house on the
plateau which, two years later, was acquired from the Siem by exchange for
land in the plains, as the site of a sanitarium. [6] Everything seemed to
promise well, when the peace was suddenly broken by an attack made,
in April 1829, by the people of Nongkhlaw on the survey party engaged
in laying out the road, resulting in the massacre of two British
officers and between fifty and sixty natives.

This led to a general confederacy of most or the neighbouring chiefs to
resist the British, and a long and harassing war, which was not
brought to a close till 1833.

Cherrapunji then became the headquarters of the Sylhet Light Infantry,
whose commandant was placed in political charge of the district, including
the former dominions in the hills of the Raja of Jaintia, which he
voluntarily relinquished in 1835 on the confiscation of his territory
in the plains.

Cherrapunji, celebrated as the place which has the greatest measured rainfall
on the globe, became a popular station, and the discovery of coal
there, and at several other places in the hills, attracted to it many
visitors, some of whom published accounts of the country and people. The
first detailed description was apparently that of the Rev.

W. Lish, a Baptist missionary, which appeared in a missionary journal in
1838. In 1840 Capt. Fisher, an officer of the Survey Department,
published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal [7] an account
which showed that the leading characteristics of the Khasi race had already
been apprehended; he mentions the prevalence of matriarchy or mother-kinship,
notes the absence of polyandry, except in so far as its place was
taken by facile divorce, describes the religion as a worship of
gods of valleys and hills, draws attention to the system of augury
used to ascertain the will of the gods, and gives an account of the
remarkable megalithic monuments which everywhere stud the higher
plateaus.

He also recognizes the fact that the Khasis as a race are totally distinct
from the neighbouring hill tribes.

In 1841 Mr. W. Robinson, Inspector of Schools in Assam, included an account
of the Khasis in a volume on that province which was printed at
Calcutta.

In 1844 Lieut. Yule (afterwards Sir Henry Yule) published in the Journal
of the Bengal Asiatic Society [8] a much more detailed description of the
hills and their inhabitants than had been given by Fisher. This formed the
basis of many subsequent descriptions, the best known of which is the
attractive account contained in the second volume of Sir Joseph Hooker's
_Himalayan Journals_ [9] published in London in 1854. Sir Joseph visited
Cherrapunji in June 1850, and stayed in the hills until the middle of the
following November.

Meanwhile the Welsh Calvinistic Methodist Mission, originally located
at Sylhet, had extended their operations to Cherrapunji, and in 1842
established a branch there.

They applied themselves to the study of the Khasi language, for which,
after a trial of the Bengali, they resolved to adopt the Roman
character.

Their system of expressing the sounds of Khasi has since that time continued
in use, and after sixty years' prescription it would be difficult to
make a change. Their Welsh nationality led them to use the vowel _y_ for
the obscure sound represented elsewhere in India by a short _a_
(the _u_ in the English _but_), and for the consonantal _y_ to
substitute the vowel _i : w_ is also used as a vowel, but only in
diphthongs (_aw, ew, iw, ow_); in other respects the system agrees
fairly well with the standard adopted elsewhere.

Primers for the study of the language were printed at Calcutta in 1846 and
1852, and in 1855 appeared the excellent "Introduction to the Khasia language,
comprising a grammar, selections for reading, and a Khasi-English
vocabulary," of the Rev.

W. Pryse. There now exists a somewhat extensive literature in Khasi, both
religious and secular. An exhaustive grammar, by the Rev. H.
Roberts, was published in Trübner's series of "Simplified Grammars"
in 1891, and there are dictionaries, English-Khasi (1875} and
Khasi-English (1906), besides many other aids to the study of the
language which need not be mentioned here.

It is recognized by the Calcutta University as sufficiently cultivated
to be offered for the examinations of that body. Two monthly periodicals
are published in it at Shillong, to which place the headquarters
of the district were removed from Cherrapunji in 1864, and which
has been the permanent seat of the Assam Government since the
Province was separated from Bengal in 1874.

The isolation of the Khasi race, in the midst of a great encircling population
all of whom belong to the Tibeto-Burman stock, and the remarkable
features presented by their language and institutions, soon attracted
the attention of comparative philologists and ethnologists.

An account of their researches will be found in Dr. Grierson's _Linguistic
Survey of India_, vol. ii. Here it will be sufficient to mention the
important work of Mr. J. R. Logan, who, in a series of papers
published at Singapore between 1850 and 1857 in the _Journal of
the Indian Archipelago_ (of which he was the editor), demonstrated
the relationship which exists between the Khasis and certain peoples
of Further India, the chief representatives of whom are the Mons
or Talaings of Pegu and Tenasserim, the Khmers of Cambodia, and the
majority of the inhabitants of Annam.

He was even able, through the means of vocabularies furnished to
him by the late Bishop Bigandet, to discover the nearest kinsmen
of the Khasis in the Palaungs, a tribe inhabiting one of the Shan
States to the north-east of Mandalay on the middle Salween.

With the progress of research it became apparent that the Mon-Khmer
group of Indo-China thus constituted, to which the Khasis belong,
was in some way connected with the large linguistic family in the
Indian Peninsula once called Kolarian, but now more generally known
as _Munda_, who inhabit the hilly region of Chutia Nagpur and parts
of the Satpura range in the Central Provinces.

Of these tribes the principal are the Santhals, the Mundas, and the Korkus.
In physical characters they differ greatly from the Indo-Chinese Khasis,
but the points of resemblance in their languages and in some of
their institutions cannot be denied; and the exact nature of the
relation between them is as yet one of the unsolved problems of
ethnology.

The work of Logan was carried further by Prof. Ernst Kuhn, of Munich, who
in 1888 and 1889 published important contributions to our knowledge
of the languages and peoples of Further India.

More recently our acquaintance with the phonology of Khasi and its relatives
has been still further advanced by the labours of Pater W.

Schmidt, of Vienna, whose latest work, _Die Mon-Khmer Völker, ein Bindeglied
zwischen Völkern Zentralasiens und Austronesiens_ (Braunschweig,
1906), has established the relationship of Khasi not only to the
Mon-Khmer languages, but also to Nicobarese and several dialects
spoken by wild tribes in the Malay Peninsula.

There still remains much to be done before the speech of the Khasi
nation can be considered to have been thoroughly investigated.

In the _Linguistic Survey_ four dialects are dealt with, the standard
literary form, founded on the language of Cherrapunji, the _Pnar_ or
_Synteng_, of Jowai, the _War_, spoken in the valleys on the
southern face of the hills, and the _Lyngngam_, spoken in the tract
adjacent to the Garos on the west.

Major Gurdon (p. 203) mentions a fifth, that of Jirang or Mynnar, spoken
in the extreme north, and there may be others. A great desideratum for
linguistic purposes is a more adequate method of recording sounds,
and especially differences of tone, than that adopted for the
standard speech, which though sufficient for practical purposes,
does not accurately represent either the quantity or the quality
of the vowels, and leaves something to be desired as regards the
consonants (especially those only faintly sounded or suppressed).

These things, no doubt, will come in time.

The immense advance which has been made in education by the Khasis during
the last half-century has enabled some among them to appreciate
the interesting field for exploration and study which their own
country and people afford; and there is reason to hope that with
European guidance the work of record will progress by the agency
of indigenous students.

It remains to summarize briefly the principal distinctive features of this
vigorous and sturdy race, who have preserved their independence
and their ancestral institutions through many centuries in the face
of the attractions offered by the alien forms of culture around
them.

In the first place, their social organization presents one of the
most perfect examples still surviving of matriarchal institutions,
carried out with a logic and thoroughness which, to those accustomed
to regard the status and authority of the father as the foundation
of society, are exceedingly remarkable.

Not only is the mother the head and source, and only bond of union,
of the family: in the most primitive part of the hills, the Synteng
country, she is the only owner of real property, and through her
alone is inheritance transmitted.

The father has no kinship with his children, who belong to their mother's
clan; what he earns goes to his own matriarchal stock, and at his death his
bones are deposited in the cromlech of his mother's kin.

In Jowai he neither lives nor eats in his wife's house, but visits it only
after dark (p. 76).

In the veneration of ancestors, which is the foundation of the
tribal piety, the primal ancestress (_Ka Iawbei_) and her brother
are the only persons regarded.

The flat memorial stones set up to perpetuate the memory of the dead are
called after the woman who represents the clan (_maw kynthei_ p. 150), and
the standing stones ranged behind them are dedicated to the male
kinsmen on the mother's side.

In harmony with this scheme of ancestor worship, the other spirits
to whom propitiation is offered are mainly female, though here
male personages also figure (pp. 106-109).

The powers of sickness and death are all female, and these are those most
frequently worshipped (p. 107). The two protectors of the household are
goddesses (p. 112), though with them is also revered the first
father of the clan, _U Thawlang_.

Priestesses assist at all sacrifices, and the male officiants are only their
deputies (p. 121); in one important state, Khyrim, the High Priestess and
actual head of the State is a woman, who combines in her person sacerdotal
and regal functions (p. 70).

The Khasi language, so far as known, is the only member of the Mon-Khmer
family which possesses a grammatical gender, distinguishing all
nouns as masculine and feminine; and here also the feminine nouns
immensely preponderate (p. 206).

The pronouns of the second (me, pha) and third person (u, ka) have
separate forms for the sexes in the singular, but in the plural
only one is used (phi, ki), and this is the plural form of the
feminine singular.

It may perhaps be ascribed to the pre-eminence accorded by the Khasis to the
female sex that successive censuses have shown that the women of this race
considerably exceed the men in number.

According to the census of 1901, there are 1,118 females to every 1,000
male Khasis. This excess, however, is surpassed by that of the Lushais,
1,191 to 1,000, and it may possibly be due to the greater risks to life
encountered by the men, who venture far into the plains as traders and
porters, while the women stay at home. Habits of intemperance, which are
confined to the male sex, may also explain a greater mortality among
them.

It would be interesting to investigate the effect on reproduction
of the system of matriarchy which governs Khasi family life.

The increase of the race is very slow. In the census of 1891 there
were enumerated only 117 children under 5 to every hundred married women
between 15 and 40, and in 1901 this number fell to 108. It has been
suggested that the independence of the wife, and the facilities which
exist for divorce, lead to restrictions upon child-bearing, and thus
keep the population stationary. The question might with advantage be examined
at the census of 1911.

The next characteristic of the Khasis which marks them out for
special notice is their method of divination for ascertaining the
causes of misfortune and the remedies to be applied.

All forms of animistic religion make it their chief business to avert the
wrath of the gods, to which calamities of all kinds--sickness, storm,
murrain, loss of harvest--are ascribed, by some kind of propitiation;
and in this the Khasis are not singular.

But it is somewhat surprising to find among them the identical method of
_extispicium_ which was in use among the Romans, as well as an analogous
development in the shape of egg-breaking, fully described by Major Gurdon
(p. 221), which seems to have been known to diviners in ancient Hellas.
[10] This method has (with much else in Khasi practice) been adopted by
the former subjects of the Khasis, the Mikirs; but it does not appear to
be prevalent among any other of the animistic tribes within the
boundaries of India.

The third remarkable feature of Khasi usage is the custom, which prevails
to this day, of setting up great memorials of rough stone, of the
same style and character as the _menhirs_ and _cromlechs_ which are
found in Western Europe, Northern Africa, and Western Asia.

It is very surprising to a visitor, unprepared for the sight by previous
information, to find himself on arrival at the plateau in the midst
of great groups of standing and table stones exactly like those he
may have seen in Brittany, the Channel Islands, the south of England,
or the Western Isles.

Unfortunately the great earthquake of June 1897 overthrew many of the
finest of these megalithic monuments; but several still remain, and of these
Major Gurdon has given an excellent description (pp. 144 sqq.), with
an explanation of the different forms which they assume and the
objects with which they are erected.

Other races in India besides the Khasis set up stone memorials; but
none, perhaps, to the same extent or with the same systematic purpose
and arrangement.

In conclusion, I have only to commend this work to the consideration of all
interested in the accurate and detailed description of primitive custom.
I lived myself for many years among the Khasis, and endeavoured
to find out what I could about them; but much of what Major Gurdon
records is new to me, though the book generally agrees with what I
was able to gather of their institutions and characteristics.

It is, I think, an excellent example of research, and well fitted to
stand at the head of a series which may be expected to make an
important contribution to the data of anthropology.

C. J. Lyall.

_November_, 1906.

THE KHASIS

CHAPTER I

General

Habitat.

The Khasis reside in the Khasi and Jaintia Hills district of Assam.
They number 176,614 souls, which total is made up of:--
Khasis 107,515 Syntengs 47,883 Christian Khasis 17,125 Khasis
inhabiting other districts 4,091 
176,614
The Khasi and Jaintia Hills district is situated between 25° 1' and
26°
5' North Latitude, and between 90° 47' and 92° 52' East Longitude.

It contains an area of 6,157 square miles, with a total population at the
Census of 1901 of 202,250 souls. In addition to the Khasis there are some
members of Bodo tribes inhabiting parts of the district.

The Lynngam tribe appears to have been reckoned in 1901 as Khasi,
there being no separate record at the last Census of these people.

The district is split up into two divisions, the Khasi Hills proper and the
Jaintia Hills. The Khasi Hills form the western portion of the district
and the Jaintia Hills the eastern. The Khasis inhabit the Khasi Hills
proper, and the Syntengs, or Pnars, the Jaintia Hills.

The latter hills take their name from the Rajas of Jaintia, the former
rulers of this part of the country, who had as their capital Jaintiapur, a
place situated at the foot of the Jaintia Hills on the southern
side, which now falls within the boundaries of the Sylhet district.

The Lynngams inhabit the western portion of the Khasi Hills proper. A
line drawn north and south through the village of Nongstoin may
be said to form their eastern boundary, and the Kamrup and Sylhet
districts their northern and southern boundaries, respectively.

The people known as _Bhois_ in these hills, who are many of them
really Mikirs, live in the low hills to the north and north-east
of the district, the term "Bhoi" being a territorial name rather
than tribal.

The eastern boundary of the Lynngam country may be said to form their
north-western boundary.

The Wárs inhabit the precipitous slopes and deep valleys to the south of
the district. Their country extends along the entire southern boundary of
the district to the Jadukata, or Kenchi-iong, river where the
Lynngam territory may be said to commence towards the south.

There are some Hadem colonies in the extreme eastern portions of
the Jaintia Hills.

It is these colonies which are sometimes referred to by other writers as
"Kuki Colonies." They are settlers from the North Cachar Sub-division
of the Cachar district within recent years.

It is possible that the title Hadem may have some connection with _Hidimba_,
the ancient name for the North Cachar Hills.

Appearance.

The colour of the Khasi skin may be described as being usually brown,
varying from dark to a light yellowish brown, according to locality. The
complexion of the people who inhabit the uplands is of a somewhat lighter
shade, and many of the women, especially those who live at Nongkrem,
Laitlyngkot, Mawphlang, and other villages of the surrounding high plateaux
possess that pretty gipsy complexion that is seen in the South of Europe
amongst the peasants. The people of Cherrapunji village are specially
fair.

The Syntengs of the Jaintia Hills are darker than the Khasi uplanders. The
Wárs who live in the low valleys are frequently more swarthy than the
Khasis. The Bhois have the flabby-looking yellow skin of the Mikirs,
and the Lynngams are darker than the Khakis. The Lynngams are probably
the darkest complexioned people in the hills, and if one met them in
the plains one would not be able to distinguish them from the ordinary
Kachari or Rabha. The nose in the Khasi is somewhat depressed, the nostrils
being often large and prominent. The forehead is broad and the space
between the eyes is often considerable. The skull may be said to be
almost brachy-cephalic, the average cephalic index of 77 Khasi
subjects, measured by Col.

Waddell and Major Hare, I.M.S., being as high as 77.3 and 77.9, respectively.
According to these data the Khasis are more brachy-cephalic than
the Aryans, whose measurements appear in Crooke's tables, more
brachy-cephalic than the 100 Mundas whose measurements appear in
Risley's tables, more brachy-cephalic than the Dravidians, but less
brachy-cephalic than the Burmans, whose measurements also appear
in Crooke's tables.

It would be interesting to compare some head measurements of Khasis
with Japanese, but unfortunately the necessary data are not available
in the case of the latter people.

The Khasi head may be styled sub-brachy-cephalic. Eyes are of medium size,
in colour black or brown. In the Jaintia Hills hazel eyes are not
uncommon, especially amongst females.

Eyelids are somewhat obliquely set, but not so acutely as in the
Chinese and some other Mongols.

Jaws frequently are prognathous, mouth large, with sometimes rather thick
lips.

Hair black, straight, and worn long, the hair of people who adopt the old
style being caught up in a knot at the back.

Some males cut the hair short with the exception of a single lock at
the back, which is called _u niuhtrong_ or _u niuh-' iawbei_ (i.e.
the grandmother's lock.)

The forepart of the head is often shaven. It is quite the exception
to see a beard, although the moustache is not infrequently worn. The
Lynngams pull out the hairs of the moustache with the exception
of a few hairs an either side of the upper lip.

Physical and General Characteristics
The Khasis are usually short in stature, with bodies well nourished, and the
males are extremely muscular.

Strasbourg is not far from the Rhine; and one of its tributaries, the
graceful, sparkling _Ill_ River, which, as Johnny suggested, is a very
_good_ stream, washes the city's walls and supplies it with water.

This city is famous for its immense fortifications, its Minster, or
Cathedral, and the Astronomical Clock of the Three Sages.

Its form is triangular, and the entire city is enclosed by a bastioned
line of ramparts and several outworks.

There are seven entrance gates, and on the east side is a strong
pentagonal or five-sided tower.

There is a network of sluices, by which the surrounding country can be
inundated. Strasbourg is one of the most important fortresses and arsenals
of France, besides being its principal depot of artillery. It is
pleasantly situated, but most of its streets are narrow, with lofty
eaves-drooping houses.

The boys were surprised to hear its inhabitants speaking German instead of
French, but learned that the town was originally German, and was ceded to
France in one of the Louis XIV. wars, when it became the capital of _Bas
Rhin_, a division of France, on the eastern frontier.

In many of the streets of Strasbourg are little wooden bridges, similar to
canal bridges. These are built over the Ill, which intersects the city in
all directions.

When Eric and Johnny took their stroll, it was market-day, and, even at
that early hour, the streets presented a lively scene.

Carts and drays were the stalls in the open street, and people were buying
and selling at a great rate.

The fish stalls were surrounded by storks; but the people seemed to mind
them no more than the birds minded the people. These storks are great
favorites with Germans. In Strasbourg they are as tame as our domestic
hens, and it is very comical to see them strutting importantly about, as
if they had as good a right to the sidewalk as the other citizens.

The boys returned to the hotel with ravenous appetites, but, hungry as
they were, could not appreciate the described daintiness of a most
apparently unpalatable pie, called _pâté de foie gras_; so they were
obliged to content themselves with other edibles and fragrant French
coffee.

"Now for the minster!" said Eric, as they arose from the table.

"The _minister_?" exclaimed Johnny; "what for?"

Eric laughed.

"Not _minister_, but _minster_. A minster is a cathedral church."

"I don't care much about the minster, then," said Johnny, running up
stairs on all fours. "I've seen cathedrals till I'm sick of them. But this
clock _is_ curious, and I'm anxious to see it."

"Johnny," expostulated Eric, "walk properly. You ought to have been a
monkey.--And that reminds me," he added, "I must feed Froll and fasten
her, that she may do no mischief while we're at the cathedral."

Little Froll received an ample breakfast, and her silver chain was
securely fastened. Then the boys left her.

When they had been gone a while, and her breakfast had disappeared, Froll
became lonesome, and cast her eyes about to see with what mischief she
might best employ herself. But thoughtful Eric had placed every temptation
out of her reach.

Meanwhile Eric and Johnny were viewing the wonders of the famous
astronomical clock.

This clock is in the Strasbourg Cathedral. It was built in the cathedral,
before its completion, in the year 1439, and was invented by Isaac
Habrecht, a Jewish astrologer.

European clocks were first invented in the eleventh century, by the
Saracens, and used principally for monasteries. They were very rude,
simple affairs, and sometimes would only "go" when somebody pushed the
pendulum, which was rather inconvenient than otherwise.

So wise mathematicians tried to make improvements; and some succeeded,
among whom was Isaac Habrecht, who, in the fourteenth century, invented
the most wonderful clock in the world, and called it the "Clock of the
Three Sages," because once in every hour the figures of the Three Kings of
the Orient came out from a niche in its side, and made a reverential bow
before an image of the Virgin Mary, seated just above the dial-plate, on
the front of the clock.

It is built of dark wood, gilded and carved, and is sixty feet high. In
shape it is somewhat similar to a church, with a tower on either side of
the entrance; and these towers of the clock are encircled by spiral
staircases, which are used when repairs are necessary.

When Isaac Habrecht invented this wonderful clock, he meant it to run
forever, always displaying to the good people of Strasbourg the days of
the month, places of the sun and moon, and other celestial phenomena; and
while he lived it worked admirably: but when he had been dead a while, the
clock stopped; and as nobody else understood its machinery, it had quite a
vacation.

After a while, however, the good people of Strasbourg took it in hand, and
it was repaired and set going--only to stop again. Thus it went on until
Napoleon's time.

Strasbourg, originally a German town, was ceded to Louis XIV. in 1681; so
the clock was French property, and Napoleon decided it must be brought to
life again. Under the most skilful French and German machinists this
repairing took place. It was eminently successful _this_ time, and, when
completed, was a great improvement on the old clock.

It will now give not only the time of Strasbourg, but of every principal
city in the world; also the day of the week and month, the course of the
sun and planets, and all the eclipses of the sun and moon, in their
regular order.

In an alcove, above the dial, is an image of the Saviour; and every day,
at noon, figures of the twelve apostles march round it and bow, while the
holy image, with uplifted hands, administers a silent blessing. A cock, on
the highest point of the right hand tower, flaps his wings and crows three
times; and when he stops, a beautiful chime of bells rings out familiar
and very musical tunes.

A figure of Time, in a niche on one side, strikes the quarter hours from
twelve to one; and four figures--Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Old
Age--pass slowly before him. In a niche, on the other side is an angel
turning an hour-glass. The clock is in the south transept of the
cathedral.

Persons travelling abroad usually take Strasbourg on their route, to visit
its cathedral,--the spire of which is the highest in the world, being four
hundred and sixty feet high,--and to see its wonderful astronomical
clock.

Eric and Johnny were very much pleased with the famous clock. The guide
who explained and told its history to them was very good-natured, and even
allowed them to ascend the tower of the cathedral, which, usually, is not
allowable.

Here they had a most magnificent view, which I cannot attempt to describe,
and only advise you to go and see it for yourself.

Before leaving the cathedral, they bought two photographs of the wonderful
clock, intending to send them home, with a description of their visit to
Strasbourg.

By the time their explorations were finished, Johnny declared that he was
so hungry, he could almost eat one of those goose pies. The morning was
quite gone. It would soon be time to take the train for Lucerne, and they
must have dinner.

"Won't Froll be glad to see us back!" exclaimed Johnny, as they reached
their room; "she doesn't like to be left alone."

Eric had bought some nuts for the little creature, and went with them
straightway to her cage.

The cage was just as he left it; the silver chain was there, too, fastened
to one of the bars and to the tiny collar; but the collar hung dangling at
the end of the chain, and Froll was nowhere to be seen.


CHAPTER XI.

ERIC IN TROUBLE.


A thorough search was instantly made; but neither around the room, nor
behind the furniture, nor upon the gallery roof, were any traces to be
found of the lost Frolic.

"It is too bad," cried Eric, in perplexity, while Johnny looked ready to
cry. "We must speak to the landlord, and ask him what we are to do."

Eric's German was by no means perfect; but he managed to make the
good-natured landlord understand their trouble. He made inquiries of all,
directly; but no one had seen the little monkey since the boys had left
her. He did not think it at all likely that she had been stolen, for no
one could get to the boys' room without being noticed by some of the
servants, and he was quite sure that she would return safely to her
comfortable quarters; so he advised the boys to leave the window open for
her, and to go at once to the dinner he had been for some time keeping for
them.

His sensible advice was unwillingly followed; but Froll took no advantage
of the window left open for her benefit.

Eric and Johnny waited and watched impatiently, until it was almost time
to start for the train. Then Eric left directions with the landlord, in
case the monkey should be found and captured; promising to send for her.
He was just going to call Johnny, when he heard his voice, crying,
excitedly, "Eric, Eric!" and hoping Froll had returned, ran quickly up the
stairs.

"See there, what I found on the floor," exclaimed Johnny, as he entered
the room, and held up before Eric's astonished gaze a jewelled ring, that
flashed and sparkled in the sunlight.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Eric; "on the floor of _this_ room?"

"Yes," answered Johnny, "on the floor, just where you're standing. It's a
mercy we haven't stepped on it. Don't you think so?"

"We must find the owner at once. Isn't it splendid!" said Eric,
admiringly; "three diamonds and an emerald; it must have cost a fortune."

Just at this juncture the door opened, and the landlord, followed by a
French officer and a civilian, entered the room. The landlord exclaimed,
in German,--

"I beg your pardon, young gentlemen, but a serious loss has occurred in
the house, and as you are about leaving it, perhaps you will be kind
enough to let us inspect--"

"_Ah! mon Dieu! il y ait!_"[1] screamed the French civilian, darting
towards Eric and John, and, snatching the ring from Johnny's hand,
displayed it triumphantly before the landlord and the officer.

"I found it on the floor," said Johnny. "Is it yours?"

"A likely story!" muttered the Frenchman.

"I'm very glad you've got it," said Eric, with dignity. "My cousin found
it on the floor a minute ago, and we were on the point of taking it to the
landlord when you came in."

Eric spoke slowly and distinctly, and with an air of honest truth that at
once convinced the landlord. But the excitable little Frenchman, who had
been clasping the precious ring, and murmuring, "_Ciel, ciel! ah, ciel!_"
in an incoherent way, now sprang at Eric, and grasping him by the collar,
exclaimed, angrily, "O, you fine fellow! you wicked one! where is my--my
gold?--my gold? where is it?" and he gave the boy a series of shakes.

Eric's anger was fully aroused. With flashing eyes, "How dare you!" he
said, indignantly, and, turning upon the Frenchman, flung him with some
violence against the wall.

This made the little Frenchman still more furious; he would have sprung
again upon Eric, but the officer interfered. Johnny, with his eyes almost
starting from his head, had terrifiedly regarded this little scene,
doubling his fists to aid in Eric's rescue.

Eric turned indignantly to the landlord,--

"What is the meaning of all this? Are two defenceless American boys, your
guests, to be openly insulted in your presence without protection?"

"Count D'Orsay has been robbed of his diamond ring and a sum of money,"
explained the landlord. "He insisted that no person should leave the hotel
without examination. That is why we came to you. He has found the ring in
your hands, which is very astonishing, and he now suspects you of having
the gold."

The landlord spoke gently, and seemed grieved to be obliged to hurt their
feelings, as he knew his implied meaning must.

Poor Eric's face flushed hotly with shame and anger, while Johnny cried,
furiously, "Eric, Eric, for pity's sake send for papa! He will teach that
hateful Frenchman what it is to call us thieves."

"Be quiet, John!" said Eric, imperiously. "Come here."

"Now, sir," turning to the landlord, "please to let your officer search
us, and then our baggage. Do it at once, for we are to leave Strasbourg
directly."

"Indeed!" sneered Count D'Orsay. "Perhaps you will not leave Strasbourg
for the present. Search them, officer."

The officer advanced reluctantly, and, by his expression of sympathy,
showed himself much more a gentleman than the titled count, whose habitual
politeness had been driven away by Eric's powerful thrust.

The landlord, although deeply sympathetic, and convinced of their honesty,
was powerless to resist Count D'Orsay. He was a German innholder, and the
count a wealthy, influential French nobleman, with a proper warrant for
searching his house. So he could in no way protect the boys from the
indignity put upon them. But he hailed with joy Johnny's suggestion to
send for his father, deciding to do so at once, if they should be
detained.

Of course no gold was found upon either of them, except that given to Eric
for tickets and hotel expenses, and none was found in their baggage.

But just as they were preparing to leave the place, having been released
by the officer, Count D'Orsay uttered an exclamation, and pointed to a
_fauteuil_--an easy chair--by the window.

"_Celui-là!_"

The officer stepped to the chair, and found, tucked between the cushion
and the arm, a silk purse, full of gold pieces.

Eric and Johnny were horror-stricken, and the good landlord was dumb with
astonishment.

The French count held up the purse triumphantly, and jingled the gold
before Eric's eyes, exclaiming, tauntingly,--

"It is mine, and I have it. The _prison_ is yours, and you shall have
it."

"Eric, Eric," cried Johnny, in agony of terror, "they _can't_ send us to
prison. We haven't done anything. We didn't know the money was there, or
the ring. O, what shall we do? Send for papa!"

Eric's face was very white, and his hand trembled visibly, as he wrote his
uncle's address on a card, and requested the landlord to send for him.

Count D'Orsay wished them to be at once conducted to prison: but this the
landlord would not allow, and the officer declared was unnecessarily
severe. They might remain in their room, with a guard, and the landlord
would be responsible for their remaining.

As soon as the detestable Frenchman had gone, Johnny threw himself at full
length upon the floor, crying violently. Eric could not comfort him, but
sat at the window, with a proud, defiant face and swelling heart.

Presently the kind landlord came again to them.

He had sent word by telegraph to Johnny's father, and received a return
message. Mr. Van Rasseulger would be with them by night.

This was comforting. And gradually the boys thought less and less of their
trouble, and became quite interested in making conjectures with the
landlord as to when and how the money and jewels came into their room, and
if Froll's disappearance could be owing to the same cause, or in any way
connected with it, and if she would probably return at night.

"It's an ill wind that blows nobody good," said Eric; "and perhaps, by
being detained here, we shall find her."

[Illustration: Eric and the French Count.--Page 143.]

"I don't care what they do when papa gets here," said Johnny, whose faith
in his father's power was limitless. He sings from March till
September, and begins early in the dawn, and repeating a favourite
stanza twenty or thirty times successively, and often for a whole
morning together, till, like a good story too frequently repeated,
it becomes quite tiresome.

He is very sprightly, and full of vivacity; yet his notes are much
inferior to those of the wood, or even of the brown thrush.

The whole song of the _Black-throated Bunting_ consists of five,
or rather two, notes; the first repeated twice and very slowly, the
third thrice and rapidly, resembling _chip_, _chip_, _che-che-che_;
of which ditty he is by no means parsimonious, but will continue
it for hours successively.

  His manners are much like those of the European yellow-hammer,
sitting, while he sings, on palings and low bushes.

The song of the _Rice Bird_ is highly musical.

Mounting and hovering on the wing, at a small height above the
ground, he chants out a jingling melody of varied notes, as if half
a dozen birds were singing together.

Some idea may be formed of it, by striking the high keys of a piano-forte
singly and quickly, making as many contrasts as possible, of high
and low notes.

Many of the tones are delightful, but the ear can with difficulty separate
them.

The general effect of the whole is good; and when ten or twelve are
singing on the same tree, the concert is singularly pleasing.

The _Red-eyed Flycatcher_ has a loud, lively, and energetic song, which is
continued sometimes for an hour without intermission. The notes are, in
short emphatic bars of two, three, or four syllables.

On listening to this bird, in his full ardour of song, it requires but little
imagination to fancy you hear the words "Tom Kelly! whip! Tom Kelly!'"
very distinctly; and hence Tom Kelly is the name given to the bird
in the West Indies.

The _Crested Titmouse_ possesses a remarkable variety in the tones of
its voice, at one time not louder than the squeaking of a mouse,
and in a moment after whistling aloud and clearly, as if calling a
dog, and continuing this dog-call through the woods for half an
hour at a time.

The _Red-breasted Blue Bird_ has a soft, agreeable, and often repeated warble,
uttered with opening and quivering wings.

In his courtship he uses the tenderest expressions, and caresses his mate
by sitting close by her, and singing his most endearing warblings.

If a rival appears, he attacks him with fury, and having driven him away,
returns to pour out a song of triumph.

In autumn his song changes to a simple plaintive note, which is
heard in open weather all winter, though in severe weather the bird
is never to be seen.

--_Mag. Nat. Hist._
* * * * *

THE JOHN DORY.

In the 312th Number of the _Mirror_, several solutions are given
of the name of a well-known and high-priced fish, the John Dory,
or Jaune Dorée.

Sir Joseph Banks's observation, that it should be spelled and
acknowledged "adorée," because it is the most valuable (or worshipful)
of fish, as requiring no sauce, is equally absurd and unwarranted;
for so far from its being incapable of improvement from such adjuncts,
its relish is materially augmented by any one of the three most
usual side tureens.

"You are the most honest boy that ever lived," he cried, and told Mr. Van
Rasseulger about the box of sovereigns. "But come, tell me all about
this," he added.

Eric again related the incident, beginning with his discovery of Froll's
disappearance, and ending with the charge of theft and threat of prison.

Johnny, who despite his dislike of Frenchmen in general, cordially liked
Mr. Lacelle, was surprised to see his gradually increasing excitement as
Eric's story progressed. At its termination, he started to his feet, and
rapidly pacing the floor, exclaimed, joyfully,--

"_Ha! a bon chat, bon rat!_"[2]

"What have cats and rats to do with it?" thought Eric.

"He is crazy!" thought Johnny.

"Ah!" thought Mr. Van Rasseulger, "can he see through the millstone?"

"Eric, your good name shall be cleared of all suspicion. Give me your
hand!" exclaimed Mr. Lacelle. "I congratulate you, lad! I know who did the
mischief."

"Do you?" exclaimed the astonished boy.

"Yes, my friend," answered the Frenchman, and darted from the room.

"Here's a go!" cried Johnny, thrusting his hands into his pockets and
striking an attitude; "he knows, and he hasn't told us what he knows, and
I think _his_ nose ought to be pulled."

"Do be still, Johnny," said Eric, "it's no time for jokes. Uncle John,
what could he have meant?"

"I am totally in the dark," replied his uncle.

"I wish Froll would come back," murmured Johnny.

"I have it!" cried Eric, suddenly, rushing from the room, by the guard at
the door, and after Mr. Lacelle.

"Well," said Johnny, "I wish I had!"

Count D'Orsay's conscience was not quite easy in regard to the manner in
which he had persecuted the two friendless American boys. His suspicions
had been aroused merely by the fact that they were about to leave
Strasbourg; and the discovery of the missing articles in their possession
had seemed at the time to prove their guilt conclusively. But upon
reflection, the honest surprise expressed in little Johnny's eyes, and
Eric's look of proud, indignant disdain, haunted him with suggestions of
their innocence.

Might it not have been just possible that they did find the ring upon the
floor, and did not know of the money's concealment? But, then--how could
it be so? How could the ring and money have happened in their room, and
for what purposes? Yet, again, if they did intend to steal, they had given
up everything. He had lost nothing; and the French government would not
thank him for quarrelling with an American just at that time. He would
send word to the landlord to dismiss the policeman and let the boys have
their liberty.

Just as this conclusion was reached, there came a tap at the door, and the
waiter entered with Mr. Lacelle's card, followed closely by Mr. Lacelle.

Count D'Orsay expressed great pleasure at the unexpected visit; but Mr.
Lacelle, waiving all ceremony, explained that he had come to clear his
dear American friends from the disgraceful charge against them.

He then spoke rapidly, in French, to the count, who appeared at first
surprised, then credulous, then convinced.

With sincere regret, he asked to be allowed to apologize at once, and
begged Mr. Lacelle to tell him of some way in which he could make some
amends for his unjust accusation.

"I wish you to be thoroughly convinced," said Mr. Lacelle. "Place the
articles upon the table, open the window, and conceal yourself behind the
curtain."

Mr. Lacelle did so.

-----

  [2]  "To a good cat, a good rat!"


CHAPTER XIII.

THE REAL THIEF.


Eric, when he reached the hall, was called by the landlord, who said,--

"I am having the rooms searched, at Monsieur Lacelle's request, for your
little monkey. Will you come with me? We may catch her more easily."

Eric was very glad to assist in the search. When nearly all the front
rooms had been thoroughly examined, to no purpose, the little truant was
found at last in the upper story asleep, on a soft cushion, in the
sunlight. Eric stole up softly and took possession of her.

She awoke with a loud chatter of defiance, and tried to escape, but Eric
held her fast.

The landlord then ordered a servant to close all the windows in the front
of the hotel, excepting those of Count D'Orsay, whose room was above that
of the two boys.

Eric hastened, at his request, for Froll's collar and chain, which were
fastened upon her, and then she was released upon the balcony under the
window of the boy's room, the landlord, Eric, Johnny, and Mr. Van
Rasseulger watching her movements with intense interest.

Meanwhile the count and Mr. Lacelle were stationed behind the window
curtains, on the lookout for the marauder.

Presently there was a sliding, scrambling, shuffling noise, and the thief
came in through the window--not Eric, nor Johnny, but a being very
insufficiently attired, and possessed of a long black tail; no less a
personage than the little monkey, Froll.

She walked straight to the table, climbed upon it, seized the ring, purse,
and a gold pencil which Mr. Lacelle had laid there. Then she withdrew to
the window, but to her rage and disappointment it was shut tight, and the
two gentlemen confronted her.

The little beast recognized Mr. Lacelle, and coolly handed him her stolen
freight, which was quickly restored to its rightful owner.

Thoroughly convinced of his unjust cruelty to Eric and Johnny, Count
D'Orsay descended to the balcony, offering sincere and earnest apologies.

A water-pot (_khiew um_) is also fashioned, which is sometimes used in the
manufacture of liquor, price 4 annas to 6 annas each.

CHAPTER III
Laws and Customs

Tribal Organization.

The inhabitants of the Khasi and Jaintia Hills may be said to be divided
into the following sections:--Khasi, Synteng or Pnar, Wár, Bhoi,
and Lynngam.

These divisions represent collections of people inhabiting several tracts
of country and speaking dialects which, although often deriving their
origin from the Khasi roots, are frequently so dissimilar to the standard
language as to be almost unrecognizable.

The above sections may be sub-divided as follows:--The Khasis into the
inhabitants of the central high plateau, Cherra and Nongstoin, Maharam,
Mario, Nongkhlaw, and the neighbouring Siemships.

The Syntengs or Pnars may be divided as follows:--Into Syntengs proper,
Nongtungs and Kharwangs; the Wárs into Wár proper, and Wár Pnar; the
Bhois into Jinthongs, Mynris, Ryngkhongs, and the Khasi-Bhois, i.e.

Khasis who inhabit the low country to the north of the district, which is
called generally the "Bhoi." The Lynngams are a separate division.
They must not be confused with the Dkos or Hanas who are Garos.

It must, however, be remembered that the Jinthong, Mynri, and Ryngkhong
Sub-divisions of the Bhoi division are not Khasi, but Mikir, i.e.
they belong to the Bodo or Bara group. The Lynngams are half Khasis and
half Garos, and the Dkos or Hanas are Garos who observe the Khasi
custom of erecting memorial stones.

The above tribes and sub-tribes are not strictly endogamous, nor are
they strictly exogamous, but they are more endogamous than exogamous;
for instance, Syntengs more often marry Syntengs than Khasis, and
_vice versâ_, and it would be usually considered derogatory for a
Khasi of the Uplands to marry a Bhoi or Wár woman, and a disgrace
to marry a Lynngam.

These divisions are subdivided into a number of septs, taking Mr. Risley's
definition of "sept" as being the largest exogamous division of the
tribe. It will, however, be more convenient to speak of these septs as
"clans," the word "clan" having been used in other parts of this
Monograph and by other writers.

Many of the clans trace their descent from ancestresses or _kiaw_
(grandmothers), who are styled _ki Iawbei-Tynrai_, lit. grandmothers
of the root (i.e. the root of the tree of the clan).

In some of the clans, the name of this ancestress survives; take as
instances the Mylliem-ngap and Mylliem-pdah clans of the Khyrim State,
the names of the ancestresses of the clans being _ka ngap_ (honey, i.e.
the sweet one), and _ka pdah_ respectively. This tribal ancestress, as will
be seen in the paragraph of the monograph dealing with ancestor-worship,
is greatly reverenced, in fact, she may almost be said to be deified. The
descendants of one ancestress of the clan, _Ka Iawbei Tynrai_, are called
_shi kur_ or one clan. We then come to the division of the _kpoh_ or
sub-clan, all the descendants of one great grandmother (_ka Iawbei
Tymmen_), being styled _shi kpoh_.

The next division is the _iing_ (lit. house) or family.

It is almost invariably the case that the grandmother, her daughters
and the daughter's children, live together under one roof, the
grandmother during her life-time being the head of the house.

To Mr. Van Rasseulger
he extended an urgent invitation to visit him, whenever it should be
convenient to him.

Just before they left, Mr. Lacelle requested Eric's address, saying that
he had written to Mr. Montgomery about the box of money, and would forward
his reply to Eric.

The boys were not sorry to leave Strasbourg, because Mr. Van Rasseulger
had told them he should propose to the doctor to obtain horses there, and
travel on horseback through the Black Forest, and over the mountains, to
Munich, in Bavaria.

They were enchanted with this idea, and during their sail down the Rhine
lost much of the beautiful scenery about them in mutual conjectures as to
whether uncle Charlie would like the proposition. When they reached
Heidelberg, the doctor was already there, waiting for them.

He was quite well satisfied with the plan, and said he would give the boys
two days to explore Heidelberg, and would meantime be making the necessary
arrangements.

The boys did not like Heidelberg particularly, and Eric's shoulders were
shrugged expressively when his uncle told him he was to be a student in
the university, after his school course was completed.

The only building of which they took any notice was the Church of the Holy
Ghost--a large structure with a very high steeple, divided so that
Protestant and Roman Catholic services were held in it at the same time.

But perhaps the picturesque old town might have had more attraction for
them, had not Dr. Ward and Mr. Van Rasseulger been looking up good horses
to purchase for the journey.

They soon found just what they wanted--a large, powerful horse for the
doctor, and a couple of small horses, almost ponies, for the two boys.

It was amusing to see the different evidences of delight manifested by
Eric and Johnny.

Eric's face flushed with glad emotion, and a quiet "Uncle John, how good
you are!" was all that he said.

But Johnny danced around the horses, wild with delight, throwing his cap
in the air, dancing and hurrahing with all his might, and bestowing kisses
indiscriminately upon his good papa and the dumb animals.

One of the horses was coal black, with a white star upon his forehead, and
one white foot; he was for Eric.

Johnny's was a bright bay, with four white feet and a white nose: and the
doctor's was a chestnut-colored horse, with a darker mane and tail.

Of course the first great question was, what they were to be called.

"I have named my horse 'Perseus,'" said the doctor, "in honor of the
illustrious slayer of the Gorgon Medusa, and the deliverer of Andromeda."

"I'll call mine 'Jack,' in honor of papa," said roguish Johnny.

"And mine," exclaimed Eric, "shall be Bucephalus."

Eric had just finished reading a classical history, and was greatly
interested in the account of Alexander's power over Bucephalus.

These names were soon abbreviated to "Percy," "Beauty," and "Jack."

After the horses had been duly admired, Mr. The youngest daughter cannot
dispose of the house without the unanimous consent of her sisters. If the
youngest daughter dies, she is succeeded by the next youngest daughter,
and so on. All the daughters are bound to repair the house of the
youngest daughter free of cost.Dr. Ward provided himself with similar apparel, and numerous little things
which the boys had no idea would be necessary, and even Mr. Van Rasseulger
overlooked.

The next morning everything was in readiness. The blankets, light
overcoats, rubber cloaks, and a change of clothing, were made into a roll,
and strapped behind the saddles. The tin cases were filled for luncheon,
and deposited in the saddle-bags, and the boys declared themselves in
readiness.

But when the doctor presented them each with a light knapsack, a tiny
compass to wear upon their watch chains, and a pocket drinking cup, they
instantly discovered that they could never in the world have got along
without them.

The horses were pawing the ground, impatient to be off, their long manes
and tails floating in the cool morning breeze, their noble forms quivering
with life and excitement.

Johnny, divided between regret at parting with his father, and delight at
the novel excursion; Eric, eager and excited, with mischievous Froll,
demure enough just now, seated composedly upon his shoulder; the doctor
coolly testing the saddle girths, and Mr. Van Rasseulger seeing them off,
happy in their pleasure.

"Be good and kind to my boy, as you have always been, Eric," he said,
bidding his nephew "good by."

"You mean, uncle John, as you have always been to me," Eric replied, with
gratitude beaming in his eyes. "And Johnny is a dear little fellow; no one
could help being good to him."

"I hope he will grow like his cousin," said Mr. Van Rasseulger, with a
hearty smile; "and, Johnny-boy, you must be very obedient to uncle
Charlie. Do right, be a gentleman, and grow stout and healthy for papa."

"We will write from Baden and Ulm," said the doctor. "We ought to get
there by next week."

After a few more words of parting they set off, and were soon out of
sight.

Three hours later, as Mr. Van Rasseulger, on his way to Vienna by rail,
passed a turn in the road, the three travellers were in sight for an
instant, apparently in good spirits and prime condition.

He was extremely pleased with this unexpected view of them, and for some
time after they had again disappeared the wealthy New York merchant lay
back in his cushioned seat, building hopes of high promise upon the future
of Johnny's life.

Poor Johnny! he had been almost spoiled at home, but under the doctor's
firm guidance and Eric's good influence, was wonderfully improved. The
bright, merry little fellow was exhibiting his true character, long hidden
by ill-advised indulgence.


CHAPTER XV.

THE LAST.


Up the banks of the beautiful Rhine, through picturesque hamlets, over
high, rugged mountains, and in the glory and grandeur of the forests, our
horseback travellers sought and found the best of all treasures--health
and happiness.

The Swabian Mountains, and the Schwarz Wold, or Black Forest,--a group of
mountains covered with forests,--through which they rode thirty-seven
miles, required from them the greatest endurance.

Nevertheless, upon the woody mountains, steep and difficult to climb as
they were, they found several thriving villages, where they were kindly
received, and where all their wants were generously supplied.

Its situation is one of the most picturesque that the children of romance
can wish for, being in a beautiful vale, watered by the river Aire. It
was of the Cistercian order, founded by Henry de Lacy in 1157, and valued
at the dissolution at 329l. 2s. 11d.

Its rents are now worth 10,253l. 6s. 8d.

The gateway has been walled up, and converted into a farm-house.
The abbot's palace was on the south; the roof of the aisle is entirely
gone; places for six altars, three on each side the high altar, appear by
distinct chapels, but to what saints dedicated is not easy, at this time,
to discover. The length of the church, from east to west, was 224 feet;
the transept, from north to south, 118 feet. The tower, built in the time
of Henry VIII., remained entire till January 27, 1779, when three
sides of it were blown down, and only the fourth remains.

Part of an arched chamber, leading to the cemetery, and part of the
dormitory, still remain.

On the ceiling of a room in the gatehouse is inscribed,
Mille et Quingentos postquam compleverit Orbis Tuq: et ter demos per sua
signi Deus Prima sauluteferi post cunabula Christi, Cui datur
omnium Honor, Gloria, Laus, et Amor.

The principal window is particularly admired as a rich specimen of Gothic
beauty, and a tourist, in 1818, says, "bids defiance to time and
tempest;" but in our engraving, which is of very recent date, the
details of the window will be sought for in vain.

"Shrubs and trees," observes the same writer, "have found a footing in the
crevices, and branches from the walls shook in undulating monotony, and
with a gloomy and spiritual murmur, that spoke to the ear of time and
events gone by, and lost in oblivion and dilapidation. At the end, immediately
beneath the colossal window, grows an alder of considerable
luxuriance, which, added to the situation of every other object,
brought Mr.

Southey's pathetic ballad of 'Mary the Maid of the Inn,' so forcibly
before my imagination,[5] that I involuntarily turned my eye to search for
the grave, where the murderers concealed their victim." He likewise tells
us of "the former garden of the monastery, still cultivated, and
exhibiting a fruitful appearance;" cells and cavities covered with
underwood; and his ascent to a gallery by a winding turret stair,
whence, says he, "the monks of Kirkstall feasted their eyes with
all that was charming in nature.

It is said," adds he, "that a subterraneous passage existed from
hence to Eshelt Hall, a distance of some miles, and that the entrance
is yet traced

."

[5] We ourselves remember the thrilling effect of our first reading
this ballad; especially while clambering over the ruins of Brambletye
House. Indeed, the incident of the ballad is of the most sinking
character, and it works on the stage with truly melo-dramatic force,
Perhaps, there is not a more interesting picture than a solitary tree,
tufted on a time-worn ruin; there are a thousand associations in such a
scene, which, to the reflective mind, are dear as life's-blood, and
as an artist would say, they make a fine study

.

* * * * *

THE NATURALIST.

* * * * *
AMERICAN SONG BIRDS.

The _Mocking-bird_ seems to be the prince of all song birds, being
altogether unrivalled in the extent and variety of his vocal powers;
and, besides the fulness and melody of his original notes, he has
the faculty of imitating the notes of all other birds, from the
humming-bird to the eagle.

Pennant tells us that he heard a caged one, in England, imitate the
mewing of a cat and the creaking of a sign in high winds.
The Hon. Daines Barrington says, his pipe comes nearest to the
nightingale, of any bird he ever heard. The description, however,
given by Wilson, in his own inimitable manner, as far excels Pennant
and Barrington as the bird excels his fellow-songsters.

Wilson tells that the ease, elegance and rapidity of his movements, the
animation of his eye, and the intelligence he displays in listening
and laying up lessons, mark the peculiarity of his genius.

His voice is full, strong, and musical, and capable of almost every modulation,
from the clear mellow tones of the wood thrush to the savage scream of
the bald eagle.

In measure and accents he faithfully follows his originals, while
in force and sweetness of expression he greatly improves upon them.

In his native woods, upon a dewy morning, his song rises above
every competitor, for the others seem merely as inferior accompaniments.
His own notes are bold and full, and varied seemingly beyond all limits.

"Is that your horse?" said he.

"Yes," answered Johnny; "isn't he a good one?"

"_Is_ he a good one?" asked the boy.

"I guess he is," said Johnny, hotly; "there isn't a better horse
anywhere."

"But papa's groom told me," persisted the English lad, "that a horse with
four white feet and a white nose was worthless. He says,--

            'One white foot, buy him,
            Two white feet, try him,
            Three white feet, deny him,
            Four white feet and a white nose,
            Take off his skin and throw him to the crows.'"

Johnny detected a roguish glitter in his companion's blue eyes, and with a
corresponding twinkle in his own, merely answered,--

"My old nurse says,--

              'There was an old woman went up in a basket
              Seventy times as high as the moon.'

I suppose you believe that, too."

This ready answer pleased the other, and they were soon fast friends.

"What is your name?" Johnny asked.

"Arthur Montgomery," was the reply.

Johnny wondered where he had heard the name before; but though he was sure
he had heard it, he could not remember where.

He began to feel quite tired and sleepy before the doctor returned for
him, and his bruises ached badly. Once he would have cried and worried
every one about him, if in such an uncomfortable state; but now he bore
the pain like a Spartan.

The doctor came at last, and after thanking the Englishman again, he led
the tired horse, with weary Johnny upon his back, to a wood-cutter's
cottage near at hand, where they were to pass the night.

Eric welcomed them with tears of joy in his eyes.

"O, Johnny, what a narrow escape you have had!"

"We ought to be very thankful," said the doctor.

"Yes," said Johnny, sleepily, "I am thankful!"

He woke up just before Eric went to bed, and said,--

"That boy said his name was Arthur Montgomery. Where have I heard that
name, Eric?"

"Why," exclaimed Eric, "that was the name on the box of money I found!"

"I knew I'd heard it somewhere," murmured Johnny, dropping off to sleep
again.

Eric ran to tell his uncle.

"Ah," said the doctor, quite pleased to be able to return a good deed, "we
will see them in the morning."

But in the morning the English travellers had disappeared, and our party
could find no trace of them.

Eric was much disappointed. Now he would be obliged to wait patiently for
Mr. Lacelle's letter.

Johnny and Jack were not injured by their descent of the mountain, whose
only effects were some pretty sore bruises, which Johnny tried not to
mind, and an obstinacy in Jack's disposition that no human powers of
persuasion could ever remove. He could never, after that memorable slide,
be induced to go near the edge of any kind of an embankment; and he always
declined going aboard a steamer, until Beauty and Percy had gone safely
over the gangway.


Miss VIRGINIA F. TOWNSEND'S BOOKS.

Uniform Edition. Cloth. $1 50 Each.

BUT A PHILISTINE.

"Another novel by the author of 'A Woman's Word' and 'Lenox Dare,' will be
warmly welcomed by hosts of readers of Miss Townsend's stories. There is
nothing of the 'sensational,' or so called realistic, school in her
writings. On the contrary, they are noted for their healthy moral tone and
pure sentiment, and yet are not wanting in STRIKING SITUATIONS AND
DRAMATIC INCIDENTS"--_Chicago Journal_

LENOX DARE.

"Her stories, always sunny and healthful, touch the springs of social life
and make the reader better acquainted with this great human organization
of which we all form a part, and tend to bring him into more intimate
sympathy with what is most pure and noble in our nature. Among the best of
her productions we place the volume here under notice. In temper and tone
the volume is calculated to exert a healthful and elevating
influence"--_New England Methodist_

DARYLL GAP; or, Whether it Paid.

A story of the petroleum days, and of a family who struck oil.

"Miss Townsend is a very entertaining writer, and, while she entertains,
at the same time instructs. Her plots are well arranged, and her
characters are clearly and strongly drawn. The present volume will not
detract from the reputation she has heretofore enjoyed."--_Pittsburg
Recorder_

A WOMAN'S WORD, AND HOW SHE KEPT IT.

"The celebrity of Virginia F Townsend as an authoress, her brilliant
descriptive powers, and pure, vigorous imagination, will insure a hearty
welcome for the above entitled volume in the writer's happiest vein. Every
woman will understand the self sacrifice of Genevieve Wen, and will
entertain only scorn for the miserable man who imbittered her life to hide
his own wrong doing"--_Fashion Quarterly_

THAT QUEER GIRL.

"A fresh, wholesome book about good men and good women, bright and cheery
in style, and pure in morals. Just the book to take a young girl's
fancy, and help her to grow up, like Madeline and Argia, into the
sweetness of real girlhood, there being more of that same sweetness under
the fuss and feathers of the present day than a casual observer might
suppose"--_People's Monthly_

ONLY GIRLS.

"This volume shows how two persons, 'only girls,' saved two men from
crime, even from ruin of body and soul, and all this came about in their
lives without their purpose or knowledge at the time, and not at all as
they or anybody else would have planned it, but it comes about well
and naturally enough. The story is ingenious and graphic, and kept the
writer of this notice up far into the small hours of yesterday
morning."--_Washington Chronicle_

Sold by all booksellers and newsdealers, and sent by mail, postpaid, on
receipt of price.

LEE & SHEPARD Publishers Boston


LEE AND SHEPARD'S HANDBOOKS.

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BUGS?

INSECTS; How to Catch and how to Prepare them for the Cabinet. Comprising
a Manual of Instruction for the Field Naturalist. By Walter P. Manton.
Illustrated. Cloth, 50 cents.

"Nothing essential is omitted: every boy who has any taste for natural
history should have this neat little volume. The many 'Agassiz Clubs'
which have sprung up amid the youth of the country, should add it to their
libraries."--_Chicago Advance._

"OF INESTIMABLE VALUE TO YOUNG BOTANISTS." _Rural New-Yorker._

FIELD BOTANY. A Handbook for the Collector. Containing Instructions for
Gathering and Preserving Plants, and the Formation of a Herbarium. Also
Complete Instructions in Leaf Photography, Plant Printing, and the
Skeletonizing of Leaves. By Walter P. Manton. Illustrated. 50 cents.

"A most valuable companion. No other suit ever sold has, in so short a
time, become so universal a favorite.

These Knitted Suits are not only the most comfortable and pleasant
to wear, but are the most becoming and graceful in appearance.

For sale in New York only by 
JAMES McCREERY & CO.Comprising a Complete Manual of Instruction
for Preparing and Preserving Birds, Animals, and Fishes; with a Chapter on
Hunting and Hygiene; together with Instructions for Preserving Eggs and
Making Skeletons, and a number of valuable Recipes. By Walter P. Manton.
Illustrated. 50 cents.

"We would be glad if all teachers would take this little book, study it
faithfully, become interested themselves, and interest their pupils in
this wonderful art."--_Practical Teacher._

HOW TO ENLARGE THE ANT TO THE SIZE OF AN ELEPHANT.

BEGINNINGS WITH THE MICROSCOPE. A Working Handbook, containing simple
Instructions in the Art and Method of using the Microscope and preparing
Objects for Examination. By Walter P. Manton, M.D. Small 4to. Cloth, 50
cents.

Uniform with the author's "Handbooks of Natural History," and equally
valuable.

PARLEZ VOUS FRANCAIS?

BROKEN ENGLISH. A Frenchman's Struggles with the English Language. By
Professor E. C. Dubois, author of "The French Teacher." .

* * * * *
Liquid Cottage Colors.

The best MIXED PAINTS manufactured. Guaranteed to give perfect satisfaction
if properly applied.

They are _heavy bodied_, and for work that does not require an extra heavy
coat, they can be thinned (with our Old Fashioned Kettle-boiled
Linseed Oil) and still cover better than most of the mixed paints
sold in the market, many of which have so little stock in them that
they will not give a good solid coat.Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price.