A word now about a national bias, to those who have a veneration for
diction and style. Assuredly there can be no quarrel with the taste for
grace and elegance of speech. I am of opinion that one cannot say too
well what he has to say. But it does not follow that the things best
said and best written are most studied. Words should serve the fact, and
not substitute themselves for it and make it forgotten in its
embellishment. The greatest things are those which gain the most by
being said most simply, since thus they show themselves for what they
are: you do not throw over them the veil, however transparent, of
beautiful discourse, nor that shadow so fatal to truth, called the
writer's vanity. Nothing so strong, nothing so persuasive, as
simplicity! There are sacred emotions, cruel griefs, splendid heroisms,
passionate enthusiasms that a look, a movement, a cry interprets better
than beautifully rounded periods. The most precious possessions of the
heart of humanity manifest themselves most simply. To be convincing, a
thing must be true, and certain truths are more evident when they come
in the speech of ingenuousness, even weakness, than when they fall from
lips too well trained, or are proclaimed with trumpets. And these rules
are good for each of us in his every-day life. No one can imagine what
profit would accrue to his moral life from the constant observation of
this principle: Be sincere, moderate, simple in the expression of your
feelings and opinions, in private and public alike; never pass beyond
bounds, give out faithfully what is within you, and above all,
watch!--that is the main thing.

For the danger in fine words is that they live from a life of their own.
They are servants of distinction, that have kept their titles but no
longer perform their functions--of which royal courts offer us example.
You speak well, write well, and all is said. How many people content
themselves with speaking, and believe that it exempts them from acting!
And those who listen are content with having heard them. So it sometimes
happens that a life may in the end be made up of a few well-turned
speeches, a few fine books, and a few great plays. As for practicing
what is so magisterially set forth, that is the last thing thought of.
And if we pass from the world of talent to spheres which the mediocre
exploit, there, in a pell-mell of confusion, we see those who think that
we are in the world to talk and hear others talk--the great and hopeless
rout of babblers, of everything that prates, bawls, and perorates and,
after all, finds that there isn't talking enough. They all forget that
those who make the least noise do the most work. An engine that expends
all its steam in whistling, has nothing left with which to turn wheels.
Then let us cultivate silence. All that we can save in noise we gain in
power.

*       *       *       *       *

These reflections lead us to consider a similar subject, also very
worthy of attention: I mean what has been called "the vice of the
superlative." If we study the inhabitants of a country, we notice
differences of temperament, of which the language shows signs. Here the
people are calm and phlegmatic; their speech is jejune, lacks color.
Elsewhere temperaments are more evenly balanced; one finds precision,
the word exactly fitted to the thing. But farther on--effect of the sun,
the air, the wine perhaps--hot blood courses in the veins, tempers are
excitable, language is extravagant, and the simplest things are said in
the strongest terms.

If the type of speech varies with climate, it differs also with epochs.
Compare the language, written or spoken, of our own times with that of
certain other periods of our history. Under the old _régime_, people
spoke differently than at the time of the Revolution, and we have not
the same language as the men of 1830, 1848, or the Second Empire. In
general, language is now characterized by greater simplicity: we no
longer wear perukes, we no longer write in lace frills: but there is one
significant difference between us and almost all of our ancestors--and
it is the source of our exaggerations--our nervousness. Upon
over-excited nervous systems--and Heaven knows that to have nerves is no
longer an aristocratic privilege!--words do not produce the same
impression as under normal conditions. And quite as truly, simple
language does not suffice the man of over-wrought sensibilities when he
tries to express what he feels. In private life, in public, in books, on
the stage, calm and temperate speech has given place to excess. The
means that novelists and playwrights employ to galvanize the public mind
and compel its attention, are to be found again, in their rudiments, in
our most commonplace conversations, in our letter-writing, and above all
in public speaking. Our performances in language compared to those of a
man well-balanced and serene, are what our hand-writing is compared to
that of our fathers. The fault is laid to steel pens. If only the truth
were acknowledged!--Geese, then, could save us! But the evil goes
deeper; it is in ourselves. We write like men possessed: the pen of our
ancestors was more restful, more sure. Here we face one of the results
of our modern life, so complicated and so terribly exhaustive of energy.
It leaves us impatient, breathless, in perpetual trepidation. Our
hand-writing, like our speech, suffers thereby and betrays us. Let us go
back from the effect to the cause, and understand well the warning it
brings us!

What good can come from this habit of exaggerated speech? False
interpreters of our own impressions, we can not but warp the minds of
our fellow-men as well as our own. Between people who exaggerate, good
understanding ceases. Ruffled tempers, violent and useless disputes,
hasty judgments devoid of all moderation, the utmost extravagance in
education and social life--these things are the result of intemperance
of speech.

*       *       *       *       *

May I be permitted, in this appeal for simplicity of speech, to frame a
wish whose fulfilment would have the happiest results? I ask for
simplicity in literature, not only as one of the best remedies for the
dejection of our souls--_blasés_, jaded, weary of eccentricities--but
also as a pledge and source of social union. I ask also for simplicity
in art. Our art and our literature are reserved for the privileged few
of education and fortune. But do not misunderstand me. I do not ask
poets, novelists, and painters to descend from the heights and walk
along the mountain-sides, finding their satisfaction in mediocrity; but,
on the contrary, to mount higher. The truly popular is not that which
appeals to a certain class of society ordinarily called the common
people; the truly popular is what is common to all classes and unites
them. The sources of inspiration from which perfect art springs are in
the depths of the human heart, in the eternal realities of life before
which all men are equal. And the sources of a popular language must be
found in the small number of simple and vigorous forms which express
elementary sensations, and draw the master lines of human destiny. In
them are truth, power, grandeur, immortality. Is there not enough in
such an ideal to kindle the enthusiasm of youth, which, sensible that
the sacred flame of the beautiful is burning within, feels pity, and to
the disdainful adage, _Odi profanum vulgus_, prefers this more humane
saying, _Misereor super turbam_. As for me, I have no artistic
authority, but from out the multitude where I live, I have the right to
raise my cry to those who have been given talents, and say to them:
Labor for men whom the world forgets, make yourselves intelligible to
the humble, so shall you accomplish a work of emancipation and peace; so
shall you open again the springs whence those masters drew, whose works
have defied the ages because they knew how to clothe genius in
simplicity.


V

SIMPLE DUTY


When we talk to children on a subject that annoys them, they call our
attention to some pigeon on the roof, giving food to its little one, or
some coachman down in the street who is abusing his horse. Sometimes
they even maliciously propose one of those alarming questions that put
the minds of parents on the rack; all this to divert attention from the
distressing topic. I fear that in the face of duty we are big children,
and, when that is the theme, seek subterfuges to distract us.

The first sophism consists in asking ourselves if there is such a thing
as duty in the abstract, or if this word does not cover one of the
numerous illusions of our forefathers. For duty, in truth, supposes
liberty, and the question of liberty leads us into metaphysics. How can
we talk of liberty so long as this grave problem of free-will is not
solved? Theoretically there is no objection to this; and if life were a
theory, and we were here to work out a complete system of the universe,
it would be absurd to concern ourselves with duty until we had clarified
the subject of liberty, determined its conditions, fixed its limits.

But life is not a theory. In this question of practical morality, as in
the others, life has preceded hypothesis, and there is no room to
believe that she ever yields it place. This liberty--relative, I admit,
like everything we are acquainted with, for that matter--this duty whose
existence we question, is none the less the basis of all the judgments
we pass upon ourselves and our fellow-men. We hold each other to a
certain extent responsible for our deeds and exploits.

The most ardent theorist, once outside of his theory, scruples not a
whit to approve or disapprove the acts of others, to take measures
against his enemies, to appeal to the generosity and justice of those he
would dissuade from an unworthy step. One can no more rid himself of the
notion of moral obligation than of that of time or space; and as surely
as we must resign ourselves to walking before we know how to define this
space through which we move and this time that measures our movements,
so surely must we submit to moral obligation before having put our
finger on its deep-hidden roots. Moral law dominates man, whether he
respects or defies it. See how it is in every-day life: each one is
ready to cast his stone at him who neglects a plain duty, even if he
allege that he has not yet arrived at philosophic certitude. Everybody
will say to him, and with excellent reason: "Sir, we are men before
everything. First play your part, do your duty as citizen, father, son;
after that you shall return to the course of your meditations."

However, let us be well understood. We should not wish to turn anyone
away from scrupulous research into the foundations of morality. No
thought which leads men to concern themselves once more with these grave
questions, could be useless or indifferent. We simply challenge the
thinker to find a way to wait till he has unearthed these foundations,
before he does an act of humanity, of honesty or dishonesty, of valor or
cowardice. And most of all do we wish to formulate a reply for all the
insincere who have never tried to philosophize, and for ourselves when
we would offer our state of philosophic doubt in justification of our
practical omissions. From the simple fact that we are men, before all
theorizing, positive, or negative, about duty, we have the peremptory
law to conduct ourselves like men. In the nearest and largest lake, towering castles of white cloud
came continuously and went.

Very far off, browsing among lily pads, Mr.
Cotter could see a cow moose and her calf. And, high over his head, there
passed presently a string of black duck. He could hear the strong beating
of their wings.

Mr. Cotter was a practical man.

"Why the hell did he do it?" he mused. "He might have married, and wanted
a real house in this paradise, and told me to go as far as I
liked. He'd have asked us all up to stay--and now, my God! all it
can ever be is a cage for a jail-bird."
When at last the cottage was in exquisite order, old Martha sent
the others away and stayed on alone. In her room she had an elaborate
calendar. To each day was tacked the name of its patron saint.We would
neither deny nor contest the tragedy in certain situations or the
anguish of certain lives. And yet, duty rarely has to make itself plain
across such conflicting circumstances, or to be struck out from the
tortured mind like lightning from a storm-cloud. Such formidable shocks
are exceptional. Well for us if we stand staunch when they come! But if
no one is astonished that oaks are uprooted by the whirlwind, that a
wayfarer stumbles at night on an unknown road, or that a soldier caught
between two fires is vanquished, no more should he condemn without
appeal those who have been worsted in almost superhuman moral conflicts.
To succumb under the force of numbers or obstacles has never been
counted a disgrace.

So my weapons are at the service of those who intrench themselves
behind the impregnable rampart of duty ill-defined, complicated or
contradictory. But it is not that which occupies me to-day; it is of
plain, I had almost said easy duty, that I wish to speak.

*       *       *       *       *

We have yearly three or four high feast days, and many ordinary ones:
there are likewise some very great and dark combats to wage, but beside
these is the multitude of plain and simple duties. Now, while in the
great encounters our equipment is generally adequate, it is precisely in
the little emergencies that we are found wanting. Without fear of being
misled by a paradoxical form of thought, I affirm, then, that the
essential thing is to fulfil our simple duties and exercise elementary
justice. In general, those who lose their souls do so not because they
fail to rise to difficult duty, but because they neglect to perform that
which is simple. Let us illustrate this truth.

He who tries to penetrate into the humble underworld of society is not
slow to discover great misery, physical and moral. And the closer he
looks, the greater number of unfortunates does he discover, till in the
end this assembly of the wretched appears to him like a great black
world, in whose presence the individual and his means of relief are
reduced to helplessness. It is true that he feels impelled to run to the
succor of these unfortunates, but at the same time he asks himself,
"What is the use?" The case is certainly heartrending. Some, in despair,
end by doing nothing. They lack neither pity nor good intention, but
these bear no fruit. They are wrong. Often a man has not the means to do
good on a large scale, but that is not a reason for failing to do it at
all. So many people absolve themselves from any action, on the ground
that there is too much to do! They should be recalled to simple duty,
and this duty in the case of which we speak is that each one, according
to his resources, leisure and capacity, should create relations for
himself among the world's disinherited. There are people who by the
exercise of a little good-will have succeeded in enrolling themselves
among the followers of ministers, and have ingratiated themselves with
princes. Why should you not succeed in forming relations with the poor,
and in making acquaintances among the workers who lack somewhat the
necessities of life? When a few families are known, with their
histories, their antecedents and their difficulties, you may be of the
greatest use to them by acting the part of a brother, with the moral and
material aid that is yours to give. It is true, you will have attacked
only one little corner, but you will have done what you could, and
perhaps have led another on to follow you. Instead of stopping at the
knowledge that much wretchedness, hatred, disunion and vice exist in
society, you will have introduced a little good among these evils. And
by however slow degrees such kindness as yours is emulated, the good
will sensibly increase and the evil diminish. Even were you to remain
alone in this undertaking, you would have the assurance that in
fulfilling the duty, plain as a child's, which offered itself, you were
doing the only reasonable thing. If you have felt it so, you have found
out one of the secrets of right living.

In its dreams, man's ambition embraces vast limits, but it is rarely
given us to achieve great things, and even then, a quick and sure
success always rests on a groundwork of patient preparation. Fidelity in
small things is at the base of every great achievement. We too often
forget this, and yet no truth needs more to be kept in mind,
particularly in the troubled eras of history and in the crises of
individual life. In shipwreck a splintered beam, an oar, any scrap of
wreckage, saves us. On the tumbling waves of life, when everything seems
shattered to fragments, let us not forget that a single one of these
poor bits may become our plank of safety. To despise the remnants is
demoralization.

You are a ruined man, or you are stricken by a great bereavement, or
again, you see the fruit of toilsome years perish before your eyes. You
cannot rebuild your fortune, raise the dead, recover your lost toil, and
in the face of the inevitable, your arms drop. Then you neglect to care
for your person, to keep your house, to guide your children. All this is
pardonable, and how easy to understand! But it is exceedingly dangerous.
To fold one's hands and let things take their course, is to transform
one evil into worse. You who think that you have nothing left to lose,
will by that very thought lose what you have. Gather up the fragments
that remain to you, and keep them with scrupulous care. In good time
this little that is yours will be your consolation. The effort made will
come to your relief, as the effort missed will turn against you. If
nothing but a branch is left for you to cling to, cling to that branch;
and if you stand alone in defense of a losing cause, do not throw down
your arms to join the rout. After the deluge a few survivors repeopled
the earth. The future sometimes rests in a single life as truly as life
sometimes hangs by a thread. For strength, go to history and Nature.
From the long travail of both you will learn that failure and fortune
alike may come from the slightest cause, that it is not wise to neglect
detail, and, above all, that we must know how to wait and to begin
again.

In speaking of simple duty I cannot help thinking of military life, and
the examples it offers to combatants in this great struggle. He would
little understand his soldier's duty who, the army once beaten, should
cease to brush his garments, polish his rifle, and observe discipline.
"But what would be the use?" perhaps you ask. Are there not various
fashions of being vanquished? Is it an indifferent matter to add to
defeat, discouragement, disorder, and demoralization? No, it should
never be forgotten that the least display of energy in these terrible
moments is a sign of life and hope. At once everybody feels that all is
not lost.

During the disastrous retreat of 1813-1814, in the heart of the winter,
when it had become almost impossible to present any sort of appearance,
a general, I know not who, one morning presented himself to Napoleon, in
full dress and freshly shaven. Seeing him thus, in the midst of the
general demoralization, as elaborately attired as if for parade, the
Emperor said: _My general, you are a brave man!_

*       *       *       *       *

Again, the plain duty is the near duty. A very common weakness keeps
many people from finding what is near them interesting; they see that
only on its paltry side. The distant, on the contrary, draws and
fascinates them. In this way a fabulous amount of good-will is wasted.
People burn with ardor for humanity, for the public good, for righting
distant wrongs; they walk through life, their eyes fixed on marvelous
sights along the horizon, treading meanwhile on the feet of passers-by,
or jostling them without being aware of their existence.

Strange infirmity, that keeps us from seeing our fellows at our very
doors! People widely read and far-travelled are often not acquainted
with their fellow-citizens, great or small. Their lives depend upon the
coöperation of a multitude of beings whose lot remains to them quite
indifferent. Not those to whom they owe their knowledge and culture, not
their rulers, nor those who serve them and supply their needs, have ever
attracted their attention. That there is ingratitude or improvidence in
not knowing one's workmen, one's servants, all those in short with whom
one has indispensable social relations--this has never come into their
minds. Others go much farther. To certain wives, their husbands are
strangers, and conversely. There are parents who do not know their
children: their development, their thoughts, the dangers they run, the
hopes they cherish, are to them a closed book. Many children do not know
their parents, have no suspicion of their difficulties and struggles, no
conception of their aims. And I am not speaking of those piteously
disordered homes where all the relations are false, but of honorable
families. Only, all these people are greatly preoccupied: each has his
outside interest that fills all his time. The distant duty--very
attractive, I don't deny--claims them entirely, and they are not
conscious of the duty near at hand. I fear they will have their trouble
for their pains. Each person's base of operations is the field of his
immediate duty. Neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance
is compromised. At breakfast he told Martha, and with the utmost gravity
repeated to her everything that the birds had said--for _him_.

V

The power of imagining returned to him slowly. There were whole days
when his inner eyes and ears remained obstinately blind and deaf. When a

"Primrose by the river's brim A yellow primrose was to him, And it
was nothing more"
(only there were no primroses at this season); when the southing
birds in the ivy outside his window only made noises and were a
nuisance; and when the burden of his thoughts was one long "done
for--done for--done for."

It was the affection of many people that he missed most, and the
faith that so many people had had in him--shattered forever.

He who did it. This is just, but it is only theory, and the consequence
of following the theory would be the evil in force until the malefactors
were found and had offset it. But suppose they are not found? or suppose
they can not or will not make amends?

The rain falls on your head through a hole in the roof, or the wind
blows in at a broken window. Will you wait to find the man who caused
the mischief? You would certainly think that absurd. And yet such is
often the practice. Children indignantly protest, "I didn't put it
there, and I shall not take it away!" And most men reason after the same
fashion. It is logic. But it is not the kind of logic that makes the
world move forward.

On the contrary, what we must learn, and what life repeats to us daily,
is that the injury done by one must be repaired by another. One tears
down, another builds up; one defaces, another restores; one stirs up
quarrels, another appeases them; one makes tears to flow, another wipes
them away; one lives for evil-doing, another dies for the right. And in
the workings of this grievous law lies salvation. This also is logic,
but a logic of facts which makes the logic of theories pale. The
conclusion of the matter is not doubtful; a single-hearted man draws it
thus: given the evil, the great thing is to make it good, and to set
about it on the spot; well indeed if Messrs. the Malefactors will
contribute to the reparation; but experience warns us not to count too
much on their aid.

*       *       *       *       *

But however simple duty may be, there is still need of strength to do
it. In what does this strength consist, or where is it found? One could
scarcely tire of asking. Duty is for man an enemy and an intruder, so
long as it appears as an appeal from without. When it comes in through
the door, he leaves by the window; when it blocks up the windows, he
escapes by the roof. The more plainly we see it coming, the more surely
we flee. It is like those police, representatives of public order and
official justice, whom an adroit thief succeeds in evading. Alas! the
officer, though he finally collar the thief, can only conduct him to the
station, not along the right road. Before man is able to accomplish his
duty, he must fall into the hands of another power than that which says,
"Do this, do that; shun this, shun that, or else beware!"

This is an interior power; it is love. When a man hates his work, or
goes about it with indifference, all the forces of earth cannot make
him follow it with enthusiasm. But he who loves his office moves of
himself; not only is it needless to compel him, but it would be
impossible to turn him aside. And this is true of everybody. The great
thing is to have felt the sanctity and immortal beauty in our obscure
destiny; to have been led by a series of experiences to love this life
for its griefs and its hopes, to love men for their weakness and their
greatness, and to belong to humanity through the heart, the intelligence
and the soul. Then an unknown power takes possession of us, as the wind
of the sails of a ship, and bears us toward pity and justice. And
yielding to its irresistible impulse, we say: _I cannot help it,
something is there stronger than I._ In so saying, the men of all times
and places have designated a power that is above humanity, but which may
dwell in men's hearts. And everything truly lofty within us appears to
us as a manifestation of this mystery beyond. Noble feelings, like great
thoughts and deeds, are things of inspiration. When the tree buds and
bears fruit, it is because it draws vital forces from the soil, and
receives light and warmth from the sun. If a man, in his humble sphere,
in the midst of the ignorance and faults that are his inevitably,
consecrates himself sincerely to his task, it is because he is in
contact with the eternal source of goodness. This central force
manifests itself under a thousand forms. Sometimes it is indomitable
energy; sometimes winning tenderness; sometimes the militant spirit that
grasps and uproots the evil; sometimes maternal solicitude, gathering to
its arms from the wayside where it was perishing, some bruised and
forgotten life; sometimes the humble patience of long research. All that
it touches bears its seal, and the men it inspires know that through it
we live and have our being. To serve it is their pleasure and reward.
They are satisfied to be its instruments, and they no longer look at the
outward glory of their office, well knowing that nothing is great,
nothing small, but that our life and our deeds are only of worth because
of the spirit which breathes through them.


VI

SIMPLE NEEDS


When we buy a bird of the fancier, the good man tells us briefly what is
necessary for our new pensioner, and the whole thing--hygiene, food, and
the rest--is comprehended in a dozen words. Likewise, to sum up the
necessities of most men, a few concise lines would answer. Their régime
is in general of supreme simplicity, and so long as they follow it, all
is well with them, as with every obedient child of Mother Nature. Let
them depart from it, complications arise, health fails, gayety vanishes.
Only simple and natural living can keep a body in full vigor. Instead of
remembering this basic principle, we fall into the strangest
aberrations.

What material things does a man need to live under the best conditions?
A healthful diet, simple clothing, a sanitary dwelling-place, air and
exercise. I am not going to enter into hygienic details, compose menus,
or discuss model tenements and dress reform. My aim is to point out a
direction and tell what advantage would come to each of us from ordering
his life in a spirit of simplicity. To know that this spirit does not
rule in our society we need but watch the lives of men of all classes.
Ask different people, of very unlike surroundings, this question: What
do you need to live? You will see how they respond. Nothing is more
instructive. For some aboriginals of the Parisian asphalt, there is no
life possible outside a region bounded by certain boulevards. There one
finds the respirable air, the illuminating light, normal heat, classic
cookery, and, in moderation, so many other things without which it would
not be worth the while to promenade this round ball.

On the various rungs of the bourgeois ladder people reply to the
question, what is necessary to live? by figures varying with the degree
of their ambition or education: and by education is oftenest understood
the outward customs of life, the style of house, dress, table--an
education precisely skin-deep. Upward from a certain income, fee, or
salary, life becomes possible: below that it is impossible. We have seen
men commit suicide because their means had fallen under a certain
minimum. They preferred to disappear rather than retrench. Observe that
this minimum, the cause of their despair, would have been sufficient for
others of less exacting needs, and enviable to men whose tastes are
modest.

On lofty mountains vegetation changes with the altitude. There is the
region of ordinary flora, that of the forests, that of pastures, that of
bare rocks and glaciers. Above a certain zone wheat is no longer found,
but the vine still prospers. The oak ceases in the low regions, the pine
flourishes at considerable heights. Human life, with its needs, reminds
one of these phenomena of vegetation.

At a certain altitude of fortune the financier thrives, the club-man,
the society woman, all those in short for whom the strictly necessary
includes a certain number of domestics and equipages, as well as several
town and country houses. Further on flourishes the rich upper middle
class, with its own standards and life. In other regions we find men of
ample, moderate, or small means, and very unlike exigencies. Then come
the people--artisans, day-laborers, peasants, in short, the masses, who
live dense and serried like the thick, sturdy growths on the summits of
the mountains, where the larger vegetation can no longer find
nourishment. In all these different regions of society men live, and no
matter in which particular regions they flourish, all are alike human
beings, bearing the same mark. How strange that among fellows there
should be such a prodigious difference in requirements! And here the
analogies of our comparison fail us. Plants and animals of the same
families have identical wants. In human life we observe quite the
contrary. What conclusion shall we draw from this, if not that with us
there is a considerable elasticity in the nature and number of needs?

Is it well, is it favorable to the development of the individual and his
happiness, and to the development and happiness of society, that man
should have a multitude of needs, and bend his energies to their
satisfaction? Let us return for a moment to our comparison with inferior
beings. Provided that their essential wants are satisfied, they live
content. Is this true of men? No. In all classes of society we find
discontent. I leave completely out of the question those who lack the
necessities of life. One cannot with justice count in the number of
malcontents those from whom hunger, cold, and misery wring complaints. I
am considering now that multitude of people who live under conditions at
least supportable. Whence comes their heart-burning? Why is it found not
only among those of modest though sufficient means, but also under
shades of ever-increasing refinement, all along the ascending scale,
even to opulence and the summits of social place? They talk of the
contented middle classes. Who talk of them? People who, judging from
without, think that as soon as one begins to enjoy ease he ought to be
satisfied. But the middle classes themselves--do they consider
themselves satisfied? Not the least in the world. If there are people at
once rich and content, be assured that they are content because they
know how to be so, not because they are rich. An animal is satisfied
when it has eaten; it lies down and sleeps. A man also can lie down and
sleep for a time, but it never lasts. When he becomes accustomed to this
contentment, he tires of it and demands a greater. Man's appetite is not
appeased by food; it increases with eating. This may seem absurd, but it
is strictly true.

And the fact that those who make the most outcry are almost always those
who should find the best reasons for contentment, proves unquestionably
that happiness is not allied to the number of our needs and the zeal we
put into their cultivation. It is for everyone's interest to let this
truth sink deep into his mind. If it does not, if he does not by
decisive action succeed in limiting his needs, he risks a descent,
insensible and beyond retreat, along the declivity of desire.

He who lives to eat, drink, sleep, dress, take his walk,--in short,
pamper himself all that he can--be it the courtier basking in the sun,
the drunken laborer, the commoner serving his belly, the woman absorbed
in her toilettes, the profligate of low estate or high, or simply the
ordinary pleasure-lover, a "good fellow," but too obedient to material
needs--that man or woman is on the downward way of desire, and the
descent is fatal. Those who follow it obey the same laws as a body on an
inclined plane. Dupes of an illusion forever repeated, they think: "Just
a few steps more, the last, toward the thing down there that we covet;
then we will halt." But the velocity they gain sweeps them on, and the
further they go the less able they are to resist it.

Here is the secret of the unrest, the madness, of many of our
contemporaries. Having condemned their will to the service of their
appetites, they suffer the penalty. They are delivered up to violent
passions which devour their flesh, crush their bones, suck their blood,
and cannot be sated. This is not a lofty moral denunciation. I have
been listening to what life says, and have recorded, as I heard them,
some of the truths that resound in every square.

