Produced by David Starner, Jeannie Howse and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net).


[Illustration]

BEADLE'S HALF DIME LIBRARY

1877, BEADLE AND ADAMS.

Vol. I.  Single   BEADLE AND ADAMS, PUBLISHERS,     Price,   No. 1
         Number.  No. 98 WILLIAM STREET, NEW YORK.  5 cents


=Deadwood Dick,= THE PRINCE OF THE ROAD;
OR,
THE BLACK RIDER of the BLACK HILLS.

BY EDWARD L. WHEELER.


CHAPTER I.

FEARLESS FRANK TO THE RESCUE.


On the plains, midway between Cheyenne and the Black Hills, a train
had halted for a noonday feed. Not a railway train, mind you, but a
line of those white-covered vehicles drawn by strong-limbed mules,
which are most properly styled "prairie schooners."

There were four wagons of this type, and they had been drawn in a
circle about a camp-fire, over which was roasting a savory haunch of
venison. Around the camp-fire were grouped half a score of men, all
rough, bearded, and grizzled, with one exception. This being a youth
whose age one could have safely put at twenty, so perfectly developed
of physique and intelligent of facial appearance was he. There was
something about him that was not handsome, and yet you would have been
puzzled to tell what it was, for his countenance was strikingly
handsome, and surely no form in the crowd was more noticeable for its
grace, symmetry, and proportionate development. It would have taken a
scholar to have studied out the secret.

He was of about medium stature, and as straight and square-shouldered
as an athlete. His complexion was nut-brown, from long exposure to the
sun; hair of hue of the raven's wing, and hanging in long, straight
strands adown his back; eyes black and piercing as an eagle's;
features well molded, with a firm, resolute mouth and prominent chin.
He was an interesting specimen of young, healthy manhood, and, even
though a youth in years, was one that could command respect, if not
admiration, wheresoever he might choose to go.

Youth swell thy train, who owes to thee Her charms, and winged
Mercury!

ODE xxvi.--B. 3.

TO THE SAME.

_He renounces Love._

Not without renown was I, In the ranks of gallantry.
Now, when Love no more will call, To battle; on this sacred wall,
Venus, where her statue stands, To hang my arms, and lute commands;
Here the bright torch to hang, and bars, Which wag'd so oft loud
midnight wars.

But, O blessed Cyprian queen!
Blest in Memphian bow'rs serene, Raise high the lash, and Chloe's be,
All e'er proud Chloe dealt to me!

W.P.

* * * * *

Arcana of Science.

* * * * *
_Smoke of Lamps._
A recent number of Gill's "Technical Repository," contains a simple
mode of consuming the smoke that ascends from the turner of an
argand lamp.

It consists of a thin concave of copper, fixed by three wires, at
about an inch above the chimney-glass of the lamp, yet capable
of being taken off at pleasure. The gaseous carbonaceous matter
which occasionally escapes from the top of lamps, is thus arrested
beneath the concave cap, and subsequently consumed by the heat of the
flame, instead of passing off into the room, in the form of smoke
or smut on the ceiling and walls.

[The "Technical Repository," may have the credit of introducing this
contrivance to the British public; but it is somewhat curious that it
had not been previously adopted, since scores of lamps thus provided,
are to be seen in the cafés and restaurateurs of Paris. _Apropos_,
the French oil burns equal in brightness to our best gas, and as we are
informed, this purity is obtained by filtration through charcoal.--ED.]

_Caddis Worms._

The transformation of the deserted cases of numberless minute insects
into a constituent part of a solid rock, first formed at the bottom
of a lake, then constituting the sides of deep valleys, and the tabular
summits of lofty hills, is a phenomenon as striking as the vast
reefs of coral constructed by the labours of minute polyps.

We remember to have seen such _caddis-worms_, as they are called by
fishermen, very abundant in the wooden troughs constructed by
the late Dr.

Sibthorp, for aquatic plants, in the botanic garden at Oxford, to the
cases of which many small shells of the G. Planorbis Limnea and Cyclas
were affixed, precisely in the same manner as in the fossil tubes of
Auvergne; an incrusting spring, therefore, may, perhaps, be all
that is wanting to reproduce, on the banks of the Isis or the
Charwell, a rock similar in structure to that of the Limagne.

Mr. Kirby, in his "Entomology," informs us, that these larvae ultimately
change into a four-winged insect. If you are desirous to examine them
in their aquatic state, "you have only, (he says) to place yourself
by the side of a clear and shallow pool of water, and you cannot
fail to observe at the bottom little oblong moving masses, resembling
pieces of straw, wood, or even stone--of the larvae itself, nothing
is to be seen but the head and six legs, by means of which it moves
itself in the water, and drags after it the case in which the rest
of the body is enclosed, and into which, on any alarm, it instantly
retires.

The construction of these habitations is very various. Some select
four or five pieces of the leaves of grass, which they glue together
into a shapely polygonal case; others employ portions of the stems of
rushes, placed side by side, so as to form an elegant fluted cylinder;
some arrange round them pieces of leaves like a spirally-rolled riband;
other species construct houses which may be called alive, forming
them of the shells of various aquatic snails of different kinds and
sizes, even while inhabited, all of which are immovably fixed to them,
and dragged about at pleasure. However various may be the form of the case
externally, within it is usually cylindrical and lined with
silk."

--_Introduction to Entomology, by Kirby and Spence._

_Engraving on Glass._
Cover one side of a flat piece of glass, after having made it perfectly
clean, with bees' wax, and trace figures upon it with a needle,
taking care that every stroke cuts completely through the wax.

Next, make a border of wax all round the glass, to prevent any liquor,
when poured on, from running off.

Then take some finely powdered fluate of lime (fluor spar,) strew it
even over the glass plate upon the waxed side, and then gently
pour upon it, so as not to displace the powder, as much concentrated
sulphuric acid diluted with thrice its weight of water, as is
sufficient to cover the powdered fluor spar.

Let every thing remain in this state for three hours; then remove the
mixture, and clean the glass, by washing it with oil of turpentine;
the figures which were traced through the wax will be found engraven
on the glass, while the parts which the wax covered will be uncorroded.

The fluate of lime is decomposed by the sulphuric acid, and sulphate
of lime is formed. The fluoric acid, disengaged in the gaseous state,
combines with the water that diluted the sulphuric acid, and forms
liquid fluoric acid, by which the glass is corroded.

_Habits of Seals._
The brain of this animal, observes Dr.

Harwood, is I think, doubtless, of greater proportionate magnitude than
in any other quadruped, and not only does it exhibit in its
countenance, the appearance of sagacity, but its intelligence is in
reality far greater than in most land quadrupeds: hence its
domestication is rendered much easier than that of other animals,
and it is susceptible of more powerful attachment.

The large seal, which was exhibited some time ago at Exeter 'Change,
appeared to me to understand the language of its keeper as perfectly
as the most faithful dog. When he entered at one end of its long
apartment, it raised its body from the water, in which it was
injudiciously too constantly kept, supporting itself erect against
the bar of its enclosure, and wherever he moved, keeping its large,
dark eyes steadfastly fixed upon him.

When desired to make obeisance to visitors, it quickly threw itself
on one side, and struck the opposite one several times in quick
succession with its fore-foot, producing a loud noise. The young
seal, again, which was kept on board the Alexander, in one of
the northern expeditions, became so much attached to its new mode of
life, that after being thrown into the sea, and it had become tired
of swimming at liberty, it regularly returned to the side of the
beat, to be retaken on board.

Such examples might be greatly multiplied; and I cannot help
stating, that aware of this disposition to become familiar, and this
participation in the good qualities of the dog, it is astonishing
that mankind have not chosen this intellectual and finely organized
quadruped, for aquatic services scarcely less important than some
of those in which the dog is employed on the surface of the land.

--_Quarterly Journal._

_Gas from Resin._
Mr. Daniel, the meteorologist, has contrived a process for generating
gas from resin; which he effects by dissolving the resin in
turpentine, or any other essential oil, and then allowing the fluid
to drop gradually in a heated cylinder of iron.

_Liquorice Paper._
A mode has been discovered in France of fabricating paper solely
from the Glycyrrhiza Germanica, or liquorice plant.

It is said that this paper is cheap, that it is of a whiteness superior
to that generally made, and that size is not requisite in its
manufacture.

_Tachygraphy._

A mathematical instrument maker at Paris, of the name of Conti, has
conceived the notion of a portable instrument which he calls a
tachygraph, by means of which any person may write, or rather print,
as fast as any other person can speak.

M.

Conti, however, like many other ingenious men, is not rich; and he
has applied to the Académiè des Sciences, for pecuniary assistance,
and a very favourable report has been made upon his request.

_Valuable Discovery in Agriculture._
One of the most recent of useful discoveries in agriculture is to
mix layers of green or new cut clover with layers of straw in ricks
or stacks; thus the strength of the clover is absorbed by the straw,
which, thus impregnated, both horses and cattle eat greedily, and
the clover is dried and prevented from heating.

This practice is particularly calculated for second crops of clover
and rye-grass.

_Pine Apples._

The largest pine ever grown in this kingdom was cut lately from the
hothouse of John Edwards, Esq. of Rheola, Glamorganshire, and was
presented to his Majesty at Windsor. It weighed 14 lbs. 12 oz.
avoirdupois, was 12-1/2 inches high, exclusive of the crown, and
26 inches in circumference.

_Sea Couch for preventing Sickness._
An elastic or swinging seat, couch, or bed, for preventing the
uneasy motions of a ship or a carriage, has recently been invented.
To effect this, the frame of the seat or couch is suspended on
juribals or joints, turning at right angles to each other, and an
elasticity is produced both in the seat or cushion, and in the
swinging frames, by the use of spiral metal springs.

These springs are made by twisting steel or iron wire into the form
of an hour glass, that is, like two cones united at their apices.

The lower points of their springs are to be sown to the canvass or
webbing, and their upper parts secured in their proper
situations and erect positions by pack-thread or small cords,
tied or braced from one to the other, crossing like a net.

On the tops of these springs the usual covering of canvass is laid,
and then a thin layer of horsehair or wool, upon which the outer
covering is bitted.

Sir Richard Phillips, in the _Monthly Magazine_, describes the following
successful experiment for preventing sea-sickness, made on his crossing
from Dover to Calais, a few years since. He caused an armed chair
to be placed on the deck of the vessel, and being seated in it, he
began to raise himself up and down, as on horseback.

The passengers laughed at his eccentricity, but before they reached
Calais, many of them were sea-sick, whilst Sir Richard continued
to enjoy his usual health and vigour.

_Bites of Venomous Reptiles._
M. le D'Record, sen. discovered, during a long residence in
America, what he considers a sure mode of preventing mischief
from such bites. "It is sufficient," he says, "to pour a few drops
of tincture of cantharides on the wound, to cause a redness and
vesiccation; not only is the poison rendered harmless, but the
stings of the reptiles are removed with the epidermis that the
bladder raises."

--_Med. Journal._

_Naval Schools of France._
In France, the system of mutual instruction among the working
classes prospers in the bosoms of the ports, and schools are founded
for the particular instruction of the sons of the inferior officers
of the arsenals, in the elements of calculation, of geometry, and
of design, as far as necessary for the plans of ships; also the
principles of statics, so as to enable them to judge of the action
and effect of machinery.

Prizes of gold medals and special promotions are the rewards of the most
deserving students. Brest was formerly the only port furnished with
these schools; since the peace, however, libraries are forming in each
of the others; and in almost all, cabinets of natural history and
botanical gardens are enriched at every voyage undertaken by French
ships, either to foreign coasts, or to those of the French colonies.

An observatory has been given to Toulon and Rochefort. In both these
ports naval museums are formed, in order to preserve types of the most
eminent vessels, whose originals either have been, or soon will
be, destroyed by time. Models of ingenious machines, representations
of interesting manoeuvres, a methodical collection of raw materials,
of tools, and of the product of all the arts exercised in a
dock-yard--Such are the rich materials collected in these interesting
repositories.

--_From the French of M. Dupin._

_Antiquity of Locks._
Locks were known in Egypt above four thousand years since, as was
inferred by M.

Denon, from some sculptures of the great temple of Karnac, representing
locks similar to those now used in that country. A lock resembling
the Egyptian is used in Cornwall, and the same has been seen in the
Faro Islands; to both which places it was probably taken by the
Phoenicians.--_Quarterly Journal._

_To increase the odour of Roses._
Plant a large onion by the side of the rose-tree in such a manner
that it shall touch the root of the latter.

The rose which will be produced will have an odour much stronger and
more agreeable than such as have not been thus treated; and the
water distilled from these roses is equally superior to that
prepared by means of ordinary rose leaves.

--_From the French._
* * * * *

The Selector;
AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS_

.

* * * * *
THE SPECTRE'S VOYAGE.

"I see a hand you cannot see, That beckons me away, I hear a voice you
cannot hear, That will not let me stay."

There is a part of the river Wye, between the city of Hereford and
the town of Ross, which was known for more than two centuries by
the appellation of "The Spectre's Voyage;" and across which,
as long as it retained that appellation, neither entreaty nor
remuneration would induce any boatman to convey passengers after
a certain hour of the night.

The superstitious notions current among the lower orders were, that
at about the hour of eight on every evening, a female was seen in
a small vessel sailing from Hereford to Northbrigg, a little village
then distant about three miles from the city, of which not even the
site is now discernible; that the vessel sailed with the utmost
rapidity in a dead calm and even against the wind; that to encounter
it was fatal; that the voyager landed from it on the eastern bank
of the river, a little beyond the village; that she remained some
time on shore, making the most fearful lamentations; that she then
re-entered the vessel, and sailed back in the same manner, and that
both boat and passenger vanished in a sudden manner as they arrived
at a certain part of the river, where the current is remarkably
strong, within about half a mile of the city of Hereford,
This singular tradition, like most stories of a similar character,
was not without a foundation in truth, as the reader will perceive
who takes the trouble to peruse the following narrative.

In the turbulent reign of Edward the Second, when the whole of
England was one theatre of lawless violence, when might was constantly
triumphant over right, and princes and soldiers only respected the
very intelligible, if not very equitable principle,

     
     And this was not all,
either. A broad black hat was slouched down over his eyes; he wore a
thick black vail over the upper portion of his face, through the
eye-holes of which there gleamed a pair of orbs of piercing intensity,
and his hands, large and knotted, were hidden in a pair of kid gloves
of a light color.

The "Black Rider" he might have been justly termed, for his
thoroughbred steed was as black as coal, but we have not seen fit to
call him such--his name is Deadwood Dick, and let that suffice for the
present.

It was just at the edge of evening that he stopped before, and
proceeded to read, the placard posted upon the tree in one of the
loneliest portions of Custer's gulch.

Above and on either side rose to a stupendous hight the tree-fringed
mountains in all their majestic grandeur.

In front and behind, running nearly north and south, lay the deep,
dark chasm--a rift between mighty walls--Custer's gulch.

And over all began to hover the cloak of night, for the sun had
already imparted its dying kiss on the mountain craters, and below,
the gloom was thickening with rapid strides.

Slowly, over and over, Deadwood Dick, outlaw, road-agent and outcast,
read the notice, and then a wild sardonic laugh burst from beneath his
mask--a terrible, blood-curdling laugh, that made even the powerful
animal he bestrode start and prick up its ears.

"Five hundred dollars reward for the apprehension and arrest of a
notorious young desperado who hails to the name of Deadwood Dick! Ha!
ha! ha! isn't that rich, now? Ha! ha! ha! _arrest_ Deadwood Dick! Why,
'pon my word it is a sight for sore eyes. I was not aware that I had
attained such a desperate notoriety as that document implies. They
will make me out a murderer before they get through, I expect. Can't
let me alone--everlastingly they must be punching after me, as if I
was some obnoxious pestilence on the face of the earth. Never mind,
though--let 'em keep on! Let them just continue their hounding game,
and see which comes up on top when the bag's shook. If more than one
of 'em don't get their fingers burned when they snatch Deadwood Dick
bald-headed, why I'm a Spring creek sucker, that's all. Maybe I don't
know who foots the bill in this reward business; oh, no; maybe I can't
ride down to Deadwood and frighten three kind o' ideas out of this Mr.
Hugh Vansevere, whoever he may be. Ha! ha! the fool that h'isted that
notice didn't _know_ Deadwood Dick, or he would never have placed his
life in jeopardy by performing an act so uninteresting to the party in
question. Hugh Vansevere; let me see--I don't think I've got that
registered in my collection of appellatives. Perhaps he is a new tool
in the employ of the old mechanic."

Darker and thicker grew the night shadows. The after-harvest moon rose
up to a sufficient hight to send a silvery bolt of powerful light down
into the silent gulch; like an image carved out of the night the horse
and rider stood before the placard, motionless, silent.

The head of Deadwood Dick was bent, and he was buried in a deep
reverie. A reverie that engrossed his whole attention for a long, long
while; then the impatient pawing of his horse aroused him, and he sat
once more erect in his saddle.

A last time his eyes wandered over the notice on the tree--a last time
his terrible laugh made the mountains ring, and he guided his horse
back into the rough, uneven stage-road, and galloped off up the gulch.

"I will go and see what this Hugh Vansevere looks like!" he said,
applying the spurs to his horse. "I'll be dashed if I want him to be
so numerous with my name, especially with five hundred dollars affixed
thereto, as a reward."

       *       *       *       *       *

Midnight.

Camp Crook, nestling down in one of the wildest gulch pockets of the
Black Hills region--basking and sleeping in the flood of moonlight
that emanates from the glowing ball up afar in heaven's blue vault, is
suddenly and rudely aroused from her dreams.

There is a wild clatter of hoofs, a chorus of strange and varied
voices swelling out in a wild mountain song, and up through the very
heart of the diminutive city, where the gold-fever has dropped a few
sanguine souls, dash a cavalcade of masked horsemen, attired in the
picturesque garb of the mountaineer, and mounted on animals of
superior speed and endurance.

At their head, looking weird and wonderful in his suit of black, rides
he whom all have heard of--he whom some have seen, and he whom no one
dare raise a hand against, in single combat--Deadwood Dick, Road-Agent
Prince, and the one person whose name is in everybody's mouth.

Straight on through the single northerly street of the infant village
ride the dauntless band, making weirdly beautiful music with their
rollicking song, some of the voices being cultivated, and clear as the
clarion note.

A few miners, wakened from their repose, jump out of bed, come to the
door, and stare at the receding cavalcade in a dazed sort of way.
Others, thinking that the noise is all resulting from an Indian
attack, seize rifles or revolvers, as the case may be, and blaze away
out of windows and loopholes at whatever may be in the way to receive
their bullets.

But the road-agents only pause a moment in their song to send back a
wild, sarcastic laugh; then they resume it, and merrily dash along up
the gulch, the ringing of iron-shod hoofs beating a strange tatoo to
the sound of the music.

Sleepily the miners crawl back to their respective couches; the moon
smiles down on mother earth, and nature once more fans itself to sleep
with the breath of a fragrant breeze.

       *       *       *       *       *

Deadwood--magic city of the West!

Not dead, nor even sleeping, is this headquarters of the Black Hills
population at midnight, twenty-four hours subsequent to the rush of
the daring road-agents through Camp Crook.

Deadwood is just as lively and hilarious a place during the interval
between sunset and sunrise as during the day. Saloons, dance-houses,
and gambling dens keep open all night, and stores do not close until a
late hour. At one, two and three o'clock in the morning the streets
present as lively an appearance as at any period earlier in the
evening. Fighting, shooting, stabbing and hideous swearing are
features of the night; singing, drinking, dancing and gambling
another.

Nightly the majority of the miners come in from such claims as are
within a radius of from six to ten miles, and seldom is it that they
go away without their "load." To be sure, there are some men in
Deadwood who do not drink, but they are so few and scattering as to
seem almost entirely a nonentity.

It was midnight, and Deadwood lay basking in a flood of mellow
moonlight that cast long shadows from the pine forest on the peaks,
and glinted upon the rapid, muddy waters of Whitewood creek, which
rumbles noisily by the infant metropolis on its wild journey toward
the south.

All the saloons and dance-houses are in full blast; shouts and maudlin
yells rend the air. In front of one insignificant board,
"ten-by-twenty," an old wretch is singing out lustily:

"Right this way ye cum, pilgrims, ter ther great Black Hills Thee'ter;
only costs ye four bits ter go in an' see ther tender sex, already
a-kickin' in their striped stockin's; only four bits, recollect, ter
see ther greatest show on earth, so heer's yer straight chance!"

But, why the use of yelling? Already the shanty is packed, and judging
from the thundering screeches and clapping of hands, the entertainment
is such as suits the depraved tastes of the ruffianly "bums" who have
paid their "four bits," and gone in.

But look!

Madly out of Deadwood gulch, the abode of thousands of lurking
shadows, dashes a horseman.

Straight through the main street of the noisy metropolis he spurs,
with hat off, and hair blowing backward in a jetty cloud.

On, on, followed by the eyes of scores curious to know the meaning of
his haste--on, and at last he halts in front of a large board shanty,
over whose doorway is the illuminated canvas sign: "Metropolitan
Saloon, by Tom Young."

Evidently his approach is heard, for instantly out of the
"Metropolitan" there swarms a crowd of miners, gamblers and bummers to
see "what the row is."

"Is there a man among you, gentlemen, who bears the name of Hugh
Vansevere?" asks the rider, who from his midnight dress we may judge
is no other than Deadwood Dick.

"That is my handle, pilgrim!" and a tall, rough-looking customer of
the Minnesotian order steps forward. "What mought yer lay be ag'in
me?"

"A _sure_ lay!" hisses the masked road-agent, sternly. "You are
advertising for one Deadwood Dick, and he has come to pay you his
respects!"

The next instant there is a flash, a pistol report, a fall and a
groan, the clattering of iron-shod hoofs; and then, ere anyone
scarcely dreams of it, _Deadwood Dick is gone!_


CHAPTER III.

THE "CATTYMOUNT"--A QUARREL AND ITS RESULTS.


The "Metropolitan" saloon in Deadwood, one week subsequent to the
events last narrated, was the scene of a larger "jamboree" than for
many weeks before.

It was Saturday night, and up from the mines of Gold Run, Bobtail,
Poor Man's Pocket, and Spearfish, and down from the Deadwood in
miniature, Crook City, poured a swarm of rugged, grisly gold-diggers,
the blear-eyed, used-up-looking "pilgrim," and the inevitable wary
sharp, ever on the alert for a new buck to fleece.

The "Metropolitan" was then, as now, the headquarters of the Black
Hills metropolis for arriving trains and stages, and as a natural
consequence received a goodly share of the public patronage.

A well-stocked bar of liquors in Deadwood was _non est_ yet the saloon
in question boasted the best to be had. Every bar has its clerk at a
pair of tiny scales, and he is ever kept more than busy weighing out
the shining dust that the toiling miner has obtained by the sweat of
his brow. And if the deft-fingered clerk cannot put six ounces of dust
in his own pouch of a night, it clearly shows that he is not long in
the business.

Saturday night!

The saloon is full to overflowing--full of brawny rough, and grisly
men; full of ribald songs and maudlin curses; full of foul
atmospheres, impregnated with the fumes of vile whisky, and worse
tobacco, and full of sights and scenes, exciting and repulsive.

As we enter and work our way toward the center of the apartment, our
attention is attracted by a coarse, brutal "tough," evidently just
fresh in from the diggings; who, mounted on the summit of an empty
whisky cask, is exhorting in rough language, and in the tones of a
bellowing bull, to an audience of admiring miners assembled at his
feet, which, by the way, are not of the most diminutive pattern
imaginable. We will listen:

"Feller coots and liquidarians, behold before ye a real descendant uv
Cain and Abel. Ye'll reckolect, ef ye've ever bin ter camp-meetin',
that Abel got knocked out o' time by his cuzzin Cain, an becawse Abel
war misproperly named, and warn't _able_ when the crysis arriv ter
defen' himsel' in an able manner.

"Hed he bin 'heeled' wi' a shipment uv Black Hills sixes, thet would
hev _enabled_ him to distinguish hisself fer superyer ability. Now, as
I sed before, I'm a lineal descendant uv ther notorious Ain and Cable,
and I've lit down hyar among ye ter explain a few p'ints 'bout true
blessedness and true cussedness.

"Oh! brethern, I tell ye I'm a snorter, I am, when I git a-goin'--a
wild screechin' cattymount, right down frum ther sublime spheres up
Starkey--ar' a regular epizootic uv religyun, sent down frum clouddum
and scattered permiscously ter ther forty winds uv ther earth."

We pass the "cattymount," and presently come to a table at which a
young and handsome "pilgrim," and a ferret-eyed sharp are engaged at
cards. The first mentioned is a tall, robust fellow, somewhere in the
neighborhood of twenty-three years of age, with clear-cut features,
dark lustrous eyes, and teeth of pearly whiteness. His hair is long
and curling, and a soft brown mustache, waxed at the ends, is almost
perfection itself.

Evidently he is of quick temperament, for he handles the cards with a
swift, nervous dexterity that surprises even the professional sharp
himself, who is a black, swarthy-looking customer, with "villain"
plainly written in every lineament of his countenance; his eyes, hair,
and a tremendous mustache that he occasionally strokes, are of a jetty
black; did you ever notice it?--dark hair and complexion predominate
among the gambling fraternity.

Perhaps this is owing to the condition of the souls of some of these
characters.

The professional sharp in our case was no exception to the rule. He
was attired in the hight of fashion, and the diamond cluster,
inevitably to be found there, was on his shirt front; a jewel of
wonderful size and brilliancy.

"Ah! curse the luck!" exclaimed the sharp, slapping down the cards;
"you have won again, pilgrim, and I am five hundred out. By the gods,
your luck is something astonishing!"

"_Luck!_" laughed the other, coolly: "well, no. I do not call it luck,
for I never have luck. We'll call it chance!"

"Just as you say," growled the gambler, bringing forth a new pack.
"Chance and luck are then twin companions. Will you continue longer,
Mr.----"

"Redburn," finished the pilgrim.

"Ah! yes--Mr. Redburn, will you continue?"

"I will play as long as there is anything to play for," again finished
Mr. R., twisting the waxed ends of his mustache calmly. "Maybe you
have got your fill, eh?"

"No; I'll play all night to win back what I have lost."

A youth, attired in buck-skin, and apparently a couple of years
younger than Redburn, came sauntering along at this juncture, and
seeing an unoccupied chair at one end of the table (for Redburn and
the gambler sat at the sides, facing each other), he took possession
of it forthwith.

"Hello!" and the sharp swore roundly. "Who told _you_ to mix in your
lip, pilgrim?"

"Nobody, as I know of. Thought I'd squat right here, and watch your
_sleeves_!" _He invokes her to be present at Glycera's private
sacrifice_

Venus! leave thy loved isle, And on Glycera's altar smile; Breathing
perfumes hail the day, Haste thee, Venus! haste away.
Bring with thee the am'rous boy; The loose-rob'd Graces crown our
joy!The youth was watching him intently, with his sharp black eyes.

He was of medium hight, straight as an arrow, and clad in a
loose-fitting costume. A broad sombrero was set jauntily upon the left
side of his head, the hair of which had been cut close down to the
scalp. His face--a pleasant, handsome, youthful face--was devoid of
hirsute covering, he having evidently been recently handled by the
barber.

The game between Mr. Quassia-wood, the acorus calamus, and other bitters
and aromatics, were tried; but that which seemed to succeed best
was the bark and kernel of the horse-chestnut.

The nut was moderately dried in a stove, so as to be capable of being
powdered, and in that state was exhibited in substance with cayenne
pepper and other aromatics.

The bark was taken in infusions and decoctions with quassia, and the
effects were sometimes very decided and satisfactory, forming a
providential substitute for the only kind of bark then to be
procured in Ireland.

Redburn took up the time-piece, turned it over and over in his hands,
opened and shut it, gave a glance at the works, and then handed it
over to the youth, whom he instinctively felt was his friend. Redburn
had come from the East to dig gold, and therefore was a stranger in
Deadwood.

"What is its money value?" he asked, familiarizing his tone. "Good, I
suppose."

"Yes, perfectly good, and cheap at two hundred," was the unhesitating
reply. "Do you lack funds, stranger?"

"Oh! no. I am three hundred ahead of this cuss yet, and--"

"You'd better quit where you are!" said the other, decisively. "You'll
lose the next round, mark my word."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Redburn, who had begun to show symptoms of
recklessness. "I'll take my chances. Here, you gamin, I'll cover the
watch with two hundred dollars."

Without more ado the stakes were planked, the cards dealt, and the
game began.

The youth, whom we will call Ned Harris, was not idle.

He took the revolvers from the table, changed his position so that his
face was just in the opposite direction of what it had been, and
commenced to pare his finger nails. The fingers were as white and soft
as any girl's. In his hand he also held a strangely-angled little box,
the sides of which were mirror-glass. Looking at his finger-nails he
also looked into the mirror, which gave a complete view of the
card-sharp, as he sat at the table.

Swiftly progressed the game, and no one could fail to see how it was
going by watching the cunning light in the gambler's eye. At last the
game-card went down, and next instant, after the sharp had raked in
his stakes, a cocked revolver in either hand of Ned Harris covered the
hearts of the two players.

But Achilles grew quite ungenteel, And prevented their stirring a
peg, Till Paris let fly at his heel, And he found himself laid by
the leg.

With his rattledum, &c.

The Grecians demolish'd the city, And then (as the poets have told)
Dame Helen might still be called pretty, Though very near sixty
years old.

Menelaus, when madam was found, Took her snugly away in his chaise,
So Troy being burnt to the ground, Why the story goes off with a
blaze.

And a rattledum, &c

.

* * * * * 

HORSE-CHESTNUTS.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror._)

In a recent number there was a notice of the uses of the _Esculus
Hippocastaneus_, or horse chestnuts; but a very important one was
omitted, namely, its substitution occasionally for Peruvian bark
in cases of intermittent fever.

This disorder, known better by the name of ague, had been formerly
epidemic in Ireland, where the humidity of the atmosphere is
continually increased by the exhalation of the lochs and bogs with
which the country abounds.

In consequence, however, of the formation of the Grand and Royal
Canals, and the drainage of the waters in their vicinity, the
tendency to this disease was greatly lessened; and about twenty
years ago the disorder was so rare in Dublin and the neighbourhood,
that the medical students often complained that they graduated
without ever having an opportunity of seeing in the hospitals a
single case of this once almost universal disorder.

In consequence, however, of the extreme wetness of one summer and autumn,
agues again resumed their ascendancy, and the hospitals and
dispensaries became crowded with intermittent patients, and all the
bark of the druggists and apothecaries was put into requisition;
but to the surprise and disappointment of all the medical men, this
infallible specific was altogether inert and powerless, and after
repeated trials and disappointments, it was abandoned as useless.

"Oh! no!" gasped Redburn, horrified at the thought of taking the life
of a fellow-creature--"I cannot, I cannot!"

"You _can!_" said Harris, sternly; "go on--_you must salt that
card-sharp, or I'll certainly salt you!_"

A deathlike silence followed.

"_One!_" said Harris, after a moment.

Redburn grew very pale, but not paler was he than the card-sharp just
opposite. Redburn was no coward; neither was he accustomed to the
desperate character of the population of the Hills. Should he shoot
the tricky wretch before him, he knew he should be always calling
himself a murderer. On the contrary, in the natural laws of Deadwood,
such a murder would be classed justice.

"_Two!_" said Ned Harris, drawing his pistol-hammer back to full cock.
"Come, pilgrim, are you going to shoot?"

Another silence; only the low breathing of the spectators could be
heard.

"_Three!It was now a matter of importance to ascertain the cause of this
extraordinary failure, whether it arose from the altered character
of the complaint, or from the deteriorated quality of the medicine;
and it was found to be the latter.

In consequence of the long cessation of intermittent fever, bark
had been little used or called for, and the stock had remained so
long on hand, that it had become effete and worthless.

It was necessary then to try some substitute.
At the table Harry Redburn still sat, as motionless as a statue, the
revolver still held in his hand, his face white, his eyes staring.

There he remained, the center of general attraction, with a hundred
pair of blazing eyes leveled at him from every side.

"Come!" said Ned Harris, in a low tone, tapping him on the
shoulder--"come, pardner; let's git out of this, for times will be
brisk soon. Still, it was not for a soldier to question, and he
reported for a week's extra guard duty a man who ventured to complain
in his presence that the marshal knew as little as the men. Extra
guard duty did no good. The army was losing heart.Well, that is Catamount Cass, an' he's a pard of Chet Diamond, the
feller you salted, an' them fellers behind him are his gang. Come!
follow me, Henry, and I'll nose our way out of here."

