
A spruce young goat tried very hard to make himself appear like a
sheep. He endeavored to talk and act like a sheep. Half his time was
spent in putting on airs. He went so far as to cut off his beard, so
that he might bear a more striking resemblance to the sheep family;
and he was once heard to say that he would give anything if he
could either get rid of his horns altogether, or have them twisted as
the horns were worn by some of the old fathers whom he so much
admired. The little simpleton, however, lost more than he gained by
his singular manners. Instead of his being more respected and beloved,
as he expected to be, he was despised by everybody.


[Illustration: THE GOAT AND HIS PUPIL.]


One day, after being ridiculed and abused by some of his young
neighbors, he went to his schoolmaster with a great budget full of
troubles. This schoolmaster was an old goat, with a long beard, and a
long head, too, as it would seem from the character he had.

"O dear!" said the little simpleton, "everybody hates me. I wish I
were dead. I'm sure I don't know what it means. The more I try to be
good, the less they all like me."

"My dear fellow," said Mr. Longbeard, "I am sorry for you. But I can
do nothing to help you. It will always be so, until you do better."

"Why, I do as well as I can now," replied the young goat.

"You ape the sheep too much."

"Well, the farmer thinks more of his sheep than he does of his
goats--a great deal more."

"And what of it?"

"Why, if he likes the sheep best, he will like me best when I act as
the sheep do."

"That's your mistake. He will not like you half as well."

"Why not?"

"As much as it now also Alaeddin mother asked, as he wanted but not
on this place set. "No," said he, "I will probably watch, but allow me
to do so I when I also refused the pleasure is to him personally as
a father of a family so dear to me to see, I can at least imagine
he still sitting there. "Alaeddin mother now not penetrated
further into him and let him take a seat where he had lust.

When the African magician had set itself because where there is most
comfortable with him, he started a conversation with Alaeddin
mother "My dear sister," said he, "Do not be surprised that you
have during the whole time as you with my brother Mustafa were
married, I've never seen.

There have been forty years that I have to leave this country.

Since then I travel to India, Persia, Arabia, Syria and Egypt made
me the most beautiful cities in this country then I stopped and
went to Africa, where I took a longer stay.

Since, however, is innate to man, his home country, as his parents
and Jugendgespielen, even in the furthest distance from the memory
never to lose, it also has me a tremendous desire to take my mother
back to see my beloved brother hug, now that I have strength and courage
for such a long journey to me feel that I am without further delay my
preparation and I met on the road did. I tell you nothing about the
length of time that I needed to, nor of the obstacles that I aufstießen,
nor of all the problems and hardships that I had to survive to
hierherzukommen.

Show me a boy who talks about being as bold as a lion, and I will show
you one with the heart of a young rabbit, just learning to eat
cabbage. I do dislike to see boys and girls boasting of what they can
do. It always gives me a low opinion of their merits.

There is Tom Thrasher. You don't know Tom, do you? Well, he is one of
your barking dogs. He is all the time boasting of the great things he
is able to do. Nobody ever saw him do any such things. Still he keeps
on boasting, right in the midst of the young people who know him
through and through, a great deal better than he knows himself. It is
strange that he should brag at that rate where everybody knows him.
But he has fallen into the habit of bragging, and I suppose he hardly
thinks of the absurd and foolish language he is using. According to
his account of himself, he can run a mile in a minute, jump over a
fence ten rails high, shoot an arrow from his bow twenty rods, and
hit an apple at that distance half a dozen times running.

I must tell you a story about this Tom Thrasher. Poor Tom! he got
"come up with," not long ago, by some fun-loving boys that lived in
his neighborhood. Tom had been boasting of his great feats in jumping.
He could jump higher than any boy on Blue Hill. In fact, he had just
jumped over the fence around Captain Corning's goat pasture, which, as
everybody knows, was eight rails high, and verily believed he could
have cleared it just as easily, if it had been two rails higher. That
was the kind of language he used to this company of boys. They did not
believe a word he said.

"Let's try Tom," one whispered to another, "let's try the fellow, and
see how high he can jump."

"Say, Tom," said one of the boys, "will you go down to the captain's
goat pasture with us, and try that thing over again?"

Tom did not seem to be very fierce for going. But all the boys urged
him so hard, that he finally consented and went. When he got to the
goat pasture, he measured the fence with his eye; and from the manner
in which he shrugged his shoulders, it was pretty clear that he
considered the fence a very high one indeed. He was not at all in a
hurry about performing the feat. But the roguish boys would not let
him off.

"Come, Tom," said one.

"Now for it," said another.

"No backing out," said a third.

"It's only eight rails high," said a fourth.

Still, somehow or other, Tom could not get his courage quite up to the
point. The best thing he could have done, in my way of thinking, when
he found himself so completely cornered was to have said, "Well,
boys, there's no use in mincing the matter at all. I am a little
dunce. I can no more jump over that fence than I can build a steamboat
or catch a streak of lightning." But that was not his way of getting
out of the scrape.

"Let me give the word now," said one of the lads. "I'll say 'one, two,
three,' and when I come to 'three,' you shall run and jump."

"Go ahead," said Tom.

And the other boy began: "_One--two--three_"--

Tom started, and ran. I'm not sure but he had boasted so much about
his jumping, that he had almost made himself believe he really could
jump over that fence. At any rate, he tried it, and--failed, of
course. His feet struck the fence about three quarters of the distance
from the ground, and over he went, head foremost, into the goat
pasture. It was fortunate for him that he did not break his neck. As
it was, his _spirit_ was broken, and that was about all. He went home
a much humbler boy than he was when he came to the goat pasture; and a
somewhat wiser one, too. After that unfortunate leap, if Tom ever
boasted largely of what he could do and what he had done, it was a
very common thing for his playmates to say, "Take care, Tom; remember
that famous leap."


    *       *       *       *       *


_Woodworth's Juvenile Works_.

PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.

PUBLISH THE FOLLOWING JUVENILE WORKS, By Francis C. Woodworth,

EDITOR OF "WOODWORTH'S YOUTH'S CABINET," AUTHOR OF "THE WILLOW LANE
BUDGET," "THE STRAWBERRY GIRL," "THE MILLER OF OUR VILLAGE," "THEODORE
THINKER'S TALES," ETC., ETC.


UNCLE FRANK'S BOYS' AND GIRLS' LIBRARY.

A Beautiful Series, comprising six volumes, square 12 mo., with eight
Tinted Engravings in each volume. The following are their titles
respectively:

I. THE PEDDLER'S BOY, or I'll Be Somebody.
II. THE DIVING BELL, or Pearls to be Sought For
III. THE POOR ORGAN-GRINDER, and other stories.
IV. LOSS AND GAIN, or Susy Lee's Motto.
V. MIKE MARBLE; His Crotchets and Oddities.
VI. THE WONDERFUL LETTER-BAG OF KIT CURIOUS.

"Of those who have the gift to write for children, Mr. Woodworth
stands among the first; and what is best of all, with the ability to
adapt himself to the wants and comprehension of children, he has that
high moral principle, which will permit nothing to leave his pen that
can do harm."--_Arthur's Home Gaz_.

"We never pen a notice with more pleasure than when any work of our
friend Mr. If he really about what you say, information wants to have,
so I will have to reflect an answer, and I feel confident that the
lamp, which we have been fed for several years, I am in need will
not leave.

"Alaeddin mother knew nothing about this reply, because they thought
that the lamp, which he said, still far greater miracles might
just as their livelihood sources.

This calmed her.
These two volumes, containing characteristic anecdotes, told in a
brief and pleasing vein, are among the most entertaining books of the
kind to be found in the English language.

"Attractive stories, told in a style of great liveliness and
beauty."--_N.Y. Tribune._

"A _melange_ of most agreeable reading."--_Presbyterian_.

"They cannot fail to be intensely interesting."--_Ch. Register_.

"Charming stories, told with that felicitous simplicity and eloquence
of diction which characterize all Mr. Woodworth's efforts for the
young."--_N.Y. Commercial Advertiser_.

"Nothing can be more interesting than the stories and pictorial
illustrations of these works."--_Brattleborough Dem_.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNCLE FRANK'S PEEP AT THE BEASTS. Square 12mo. Profusely Illustrated;
pp. 160.

UNCLE FRANKS PEEP AT THE BIRDS. Uniform with the above.

These two volumes are written in the simplest style, and with words,
for the most part, of two or three syllables. They are exceedingly
popular among children.