Produced by Chris Curnow, Joseph Cooper, Emmy and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration]

          _"Come with me for a visit
             To Fairyland, dear Ned.
            I'll show you many won'drous things,"
              The tiny Gnomeman said._

[Illustration]

          _"I've lost a magic golden ring,"
              The pretty Bluebird sighed.
           "Don't worry," laughed the kind old fish,
              "I have it safe inside."_

[Illustration]

          _"I'll hurry, Mother," Jimmy cried,
              As down the road he ran,
            When in a jiffy up there jumped
              A little Rabbitman._

[Illustration]

          _"Come, Mr. Elephant," cried Shem,
              "Don't fear the dreadful Shark.
            The Circus Folk are calling us
              To leave the big Noah's Ark."_


[Illustration]

THE MAGIC SOAP BUBBLE

by

DAVID CORY


LITTLE JOURNEYS TO HAPPYLAND

          The Cruise of the Noah's Ark
          The Magic Soap-Bubble
          The Iceberg Express
          The Wind Wagon
          The Magic Umbrella

          BY
          DAVID CORY
          Author of
          Little Jack Rabbit Series
          (Trademark Registered)

[Illustration: NED ATE THE MAGIC CAKE

_The Magic Soap Bubble_ _Frontispiece_]


LITTLE JOURNEYS TO HAPPY LAND

(Trademark Registered)

       *       *       *       *       *


THE MAGIC SOAP BUBBLE

BY

DAVID CORY

AUTHOR OF

THE LITTLE JACK RABBIT BOOKS

[Illustration]

PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED

BY

E.I. JONES AND P.H. WEBB

          GROSSET & DUNLAP
          PUBLISHERS  NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

Made in the United States of America


          COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY
          GROSSET & DUNLAP.


CONTENTS


                                PAGE

          THE MAGIC SOAP PIPE      9

          THE MAGIC CAKE          25

          THE MAGIC NECTAR        39

          THE MAGIC AXE           53

          THE MAGIC SPRING        63

          MAGIC FOOD              73

          MAGIC EARS              85

          THE MAGIC BASKET        95

          THE MAGIC RING         123

          THE MAGIC BALLOON      139


THE MAGIC SOAP PIPE

The King of the Gnomes prepares the Magic Pipe for making the Magic Soap
Bubble.

[Illustration]

THE MAGIC SOAP PIPE


NED had been reading a very interesting book about fairies and goblins,
and how these real queer little folk inhabit dense forests and lofty
mountain caves and lead a wonderful life apart from the homes and cities
of men.

The book was very large and heavy, and the afternoon was very warm, and
the big armchair in which he was curled up was so comfortable that by
and by he let the book slip to one side.

He had just closed his eyes for a moment to rest them, when he was
startled by a little squeaky voice at his elbow.

He opened his eyes with a start and saw a Gnome standing on the
window-sill just in front of him. Yes, there was no mistake about it, it
was a Gnome. For had not Ned a moment before seen his picture in the big
book he had been reading? Indeed, it almost seemed as if the picture
itself had stepped out of the page from between the covers, so exactly a
duplicate did the little man appear.

"Hello, Ned!" said the little squeaky voice again. "I say, hello! You
ought to know me well enough by this time to answer, since you've been
reading about me for the last hour."

"Hello, yourself!" replied Ned, laughing in spite of himself, and
rubbing his eyes again to make sure that it was not a picture from the
book.

[Illustration]

"Can't you see a fellow is sleepy after reading so long a time? I
didn't think you were coming out of the book to speak to me, you know."

"Neither did I," retorted the Gnome, with a funny wink. "I came from the
forest to invite you to take a little journey with me through Gnomeland.
I am the King of the Gnomes, and my subjects have told me how interested
you are in reading about us, so I have come to take you for a trip
through our kingdom. I know you will love to see all the wonderful
things you have been reading about. Will you come?"

"Indeed, I will," said Ned.

"Then follow me," replied the Gnome.

Ned jumped through the window after the little fellow, who ran swiftly
down the walk and across the fields to the forest beyond.

As they neared the brook that ran through the meadow, the Gnome paused.
Taking from his pocket a clay pipe, he stooped over and filled it with
water.

"Did you ever blow soap bubbles?" he asked, taking a piece of soap from
another pocket and rubbing it carefully around the inside of the
pipe-bowl.

"Yes," replied Ned, "lots of times."

"Well, you wait and see what sort of a bubble I'll blow," replied the
Gnome.

It was a bubble! But the strangest part of it all was that Ned found
himself inside of it with his companion.

"How did we get inside, or how did the bubble get around us?" asked Ned,
but before his question was answered away went the bubble up in the air,
across the meadow, above the little brook, yes, over the roof of his own
house, higher and higher, until finally it reached the big high mountain
that he had so often dimly seen from the window of his bedroom at home.

After circling about the highest peak the bubble at length safely
landed on a rocky ledge.

Before Ned could ask how they were ever going to get out the Gnome
opened a little door through which he led him to the outer air.

There was a great change in the temperature, or else the inside of the
bubble was very warm, for Ned began to shiver and shake. "Who-o-!" he
cried; "it's co-old!"

"Of course it is. Look," answered the Gnome, and Ned's eyes, following
the pointing finger of his little friend, fell upon a strange and
terrifying figure.

Behind a bank of icicles stood a giant, with an immense helmet upon his
head, from which hung long sharp pieces of ice. The top part was covered
with snow which slipped off at intervals like a small avalanche to the
ground below. His beard and mustache were festooned with thin slivers
of ice, and his shoulders bore epaulets of frosted snow. The cuffs of
his greatcoat were fringed with snowflakes, and altogether he was a
startling and frigid looking individual. In his hands he held a
monstrous bellows, from which he forced out a blast of icy air which,
scattering the snow in whirling clouds, went howling down the rocky
ravines.

"He's the Wind Man of the Mountain," explained the Gnome, turning to
shivering Ned, whose toes and fingers by this time were quite numb with
the cold.

He was one of the earliest patrons of Johnson's "London," on its first
appearance, and the Doctor, throughout life, acknowledged the kind
and effectual support given to that poem.

The General sat in five parliaments, and died in 1785, at the age of
eighty-seven. For a striking pen-and-ink whole.length sketch, taken a
few months before that event, while the General was attending the
sale of Dr.

Johnson's library at Christie's auction-room, see "Johnsoniana,"
8vo.

edit. p. 378.-E.

(909) Charles Edward, the young Pretender.

His person, at this time, is thus described by Lord Mahon: "The Prince
was tall and well-formed; his limbs athletic and active. He excelled in
all manly exercises, and was inured to every kind of toil, especially
long marches on foot, having applied himself to field-sports in
Italy, and become an expert walker.

His face was strikingly handsome, of a perfect oval, and a fair complexion;
his eyes light blue; his features high and noble. Contrary to the custom
of the time, which prescribed perukes, his own fair hair usually in
long ringlets on his neck. This goodly person was enhanced by his
graceful manners; frequently condescending to the most familiar
kindness, yet always shielded by a regal dignity: he had a peculiar
talent to please and to persuade, and never failed to adapt his
conversation to the taste or to the station of those whom he
addressed."

Hist. vol. iii. p. 280.-E.

363 Letter 132 To Sir Horace Mann.

March 5th, 1744, eight o'clock at night.

I have but time to write you a minute-line, but it will be a
comfortable one.

There is just come advice, that the great storm on the 25th of last
month, the very day the embarkation was to have sailed from Dunkirk,
destroyed twelve of their transports, and obliged the whole number of
troops, which were fifteen thousand, to debark. You may look upon the
invasion is at an end, at least for the present; though, as every thing
is coming to a crisis, one shall not be surprised to hear of the
attempt renewed.

We know nothing yet certain from Matthews; his victory grows a great
doubt.

As this must go away this instant, I cannot write more-but what
could be more?

Adieu! I wish you all joy.

364 Letter 133 To Sir Horace Mann.
March 15th, 1744

I have nothing new to tell you: that great storm certainly saved
us from the invasion-then.(910) Whether it has put an end to the design
is uncertain.

They say the embargo at Dunkirk and Calais is taken off, but not a vessel
of ours is come in from thence. They have, indeed, opened again the
communication with Ypres and Nieuport, etc. but we don't yet hear
whether they have renewed their embarkation. However, we take it for
granted it is all over-from which, I suppose it will not be over. We
expect the Dutch troops every hour.
That reinforcement, and four thousand men from Ireland, will be all
the advantage we shall have made of gaining time.

          At last we have got some
             light into our Mediterranean
           affair, for there is no calling
             it a victory.

Villettes has sent a courier, by which it seems we sunk one great Spanish
ship; the rest escaped, and the French fled shamefully; that was,
I suppose, designedly, and artfully. We can't account for Lestock's
not coming up with his seventeen ships, and we have no mind to like it,
which will not amaze you.

We flatter ourselves that, as this was only the first day, we shall
get some more creditable history of some succeeding day.

The French are going to besiege Mons: I wish all the war may take
that turn; I don't desire to see England the theatre of it.

We talk no more of its becoming so, nor of the plot, than of the
gunpowder-treason.

Party is very silent; I believe, because the Jacobites have better
hopes than from parliamentary divisions,-those in the ministry run
very high, and, I think, near some crisis.

I have enclosed a proposal from my bookseller to the undertaker of the
Museum Florentinum, or the concerners of it, as the paper called them;
but it was expressed in such wonderfully-battered English, that
it was impossible for Dodsley or me to be sure of the meaning of it.

He is a fashionable author, and though that is no sign of perspicuity, I
hope, more intelligible. Adieu!

(910) "The pious motto," says Mr.

P. Yorke, "upon the medal struck by Queen Elizabeth after the defeat of
the Armada, may, with as much propriety, be applied to this event-"Flavit
ventO, et dissipati sunt;' for, as Bishop Burnet somewhere observes,
'our preservation at this juncture was one of those providential events,
for which we have much to answer."'

MS.
Parl. Journal.-E.

365 Letter 134 To Sir Horace Mann.

London, March 22, 1744.

I am .sorry this letter must date the era of a new correspondence,
the topic of which must be blood!
Yesterday, came advice from Mr. Thompson,(911) that Monsieur Amelot
had sent for him and given him notice to be gone, for a declaration
of war with England was to be published in two days.

Politically, I don't think it so bad; for the very name of war, though
in effect, on foot before,, must make our governors take more
precautions; and the French declaring it will range the people more
on our side than on the Jacobite: besides, the latter will have
their communication with France cut off.

But, my dear child, what lives, what misfortunes, must and may follow all
this!

As a man, I feel my humanity more touched than my spirit-I feel myself
more an universal man than an Englishman! We have already lost seven
millions of money and thirty thousand men in the Spanish war-and
all the fruit of all this blood and treasure is the glory of having
Admiral Vernon's head on alehouse signs!

for my part, I would not purchase another Duke of Marlborough at the expense
of one life.

How I should be shocked, were I a hero, when I looked on my own laurelled
head on a medal, the reverse of which would be widows and orphans.

How many such will our patriots have made!

The embarkation at Dunkirk does not seem to go on, though, to be
sure, not laid aside. We received yesterday the particulars of the
Mediterranean engagement from Matthews.

We conclude the French squadron retired designedly, to come up to Brest,
where we every day expect to hear of them.

If Matthews does not follow them, adieu our triumphs in the Channel-and
then! Sir John Norris has desired leave to come back, as little
satisfied with the world as the world is with him.

He is certainly very unfortunate;(912) but I can't say I think he
has tried to correct his fortune.

If England is ever more to be England, this sure is the crisis to exert
all her vigour.
We have all the disadvantage of Queen Elizabeth's prospect, without
one of her ministers.

Four thousand Dutch are landed, and we hope to get eight or twelve ships
from them. Can we now say, Quatuor maria vindico?"

(913)
I will not talk any more politically, but turn to hymeneals, with
as much indifference as if I were a first minister.

Who do you think is going to marry Lady Sophia Fermor?

(914)-only Lord Carteret!-this very week!-a drawing-room conquest. Do but
imagine how many passions will be gratified in that family! her own
ambition, vanity, and resentment-love she never had any; the
politics, management, and pedantry of the mother, who will think
to govern her son-in-law out of Froissart.(915) Figure the instructions
she will give her daughter!

Lincoln is quite indifferent, and laughs. My Lord Chesterfield says, "It
is only another of Carteret's vigorous measures." I am really glad
of it; for her beauty and cleverness did deserve a better fate,
than she was on the point of having determined for her for ever,.

How graceful, how charming, and how haughtily condescending she will
be!

how, if Lincoln should ever hint past history, she will

"Stare upon the strange man's face, As one she ne'er had known!"(916)

I wonder I forgot to tell you that Doddington had owned a match of
seventeen years' standing with Mrs. Behan, to whom the one you mention
is sister.

I have this moment received yours of March 10th, and thank you much
for the silver medal, which has already taken its place in my
museum.

I feel almost out of pain for your situation, as by the motion of
the fleets this way, I should think the expedition to Italy abandoned.
We and you have had great escapes, but we have still occasion for all
Providence!

I am very sorry for the young Sposa Panciatici, and wish all the
other parents joy of the increase of their families.

Mr.
Whithed is en bon train; but the recruits he is raising will scarce thrive
fast enough to be of service this war.

My best loves to him and Mr. Chute. I except you three out of my want of
public spirit.

The other day, when the Jacobites and patriots were carrying every thing
to ruin, and had made me warmer than I love to be, one of them
said to me, "Why don't you love your country?"

I replied, "I should love my country exceedingly,'If it were not for my
countrymen." Adieu!

(911) Chaplain to the late Lord Waldegrave; after whose death he acted as
minister at Paris, till the war, when he returned, and was made a
dean in Ireland

.

(912) He was called by the seamen "Foul-weather Jack."

(913) Motto of a medal of Charles the Second.

(914) Eldest daughter of Thomas, Earl of Pomfret

.

(915) lady Pomfret had translated Froissart

.

(916) Verses in Congreve's Doris.

366 Letter 135 To Sir Horace Mann.
April 2, 1744.

I am afraid our correspondence will be extremely disjointed, and the
length of time before you get my letters will make you very impatient,
when all the world will be full of events; but I flatter myself that you
will hear every thing sooner than by my letters; I mean, that
whatever happens will be on the Continent; for the danger from
Dunkirk seems blown over.

We declared war on Saturday: that is all I know, for every body has been
out of town for the Easter holidays. To-morrow the Houses meet again:
the King goes, and is to make a speech.

The Dutch seem extremely in earnest, and I think we seem to put all our
strength in their preparations.

The town is persuaded that Lord Clinton (916) is gone to Paris to
make peace - he is certainly gone thither, nobody knows why.

He has gone thither every year -all his life, when he was in the Opposition;
but, to be sure, this is a very strange time to take that journey.

Lord Stafford, who came hither just before the intended invasion, (no
doubt for the defence of the Protestant religion, especially as
his father-in-law, Bulkeley,(917), was colonel of one of the embarked
regiments,) is gone to carry his sister to be married to a Count
de Rohan,(918) and then returns, having a sign manual for leaving
his wife there.

We shall not be surprised to hear that the Electorate(919) has got a
new master; shall you?

Our dear nephew of Prussia will probably take it, to keep it safe
for us.

I had written thus far on Monday, and then my lord came from New Park:
and I had no time the rest of the day to finish it.
We have made very loyal addresses to the King on his speech, which I
suppose they send you.

There is not the least news, but that my Lord Carteret's wedding has
been deferred on Lady Sophia's falling dangerously ill of a scarlet
fever; but they say it is to be next Saturday.

She is to have sixteen hundred pounds a-year jointure, four hundred
pounds pin-money, and two thousand of jewels.

Carteret says, he does not intend to marry the mother and the whole
family.

What do you think my lady intends? Adieu! my dear Sir! Pray for peace.

(916) Hugh Fortescue, afterwards Earl of Clinton and Knight of the
Bath.

Not long after he received that order he went into Opposition, and
left off his riband and star for one day, but thought better of it,
and put them on the next.

He was created Lord Fortescue and Earl of Clinton in 1746, and died
in 1751

.)

(917) Mr.

Bulkeley, an Irish Roman Catholic, married the widow Cantillon, mother of
the Countess of Stafford. He rose high in the French army, and had the
cordon bleu: his sister was second wife of the first Duke of
Berwick.

(918)Afterwards Duke of Rohan Chabot.-D.

(919) Of Hanover.-D.

367 Letter 136 To Sir Horace Mann.
London, April 15, 1744.

I could tell you a great deal of news, but it would not be what you
would expect.

It is not of battles, sieges, and declarations of war; nor of
invasions, insurrections, and addresses. It is the god of love, not
he of war, who reigns in the newspapers. The town has made up a list of
six and thirty weddings, which I shall not catalogue to you; for
you would know, them no more than you do Antilochum, fortemque Gyan,
fortemque Cloanthum.

But the chief entertainment has been the nuptials of our great Quixote
and the fair Sophia. On the point of matrimony she fell ill of a
scarlet fever, and was given over, while he had the gout, but heroically
sent her word, that if she was well, he would be so. They corresponded
every day, and he used to plague the cabinet council with reading
her letters to them.

Last night they were married; and as all he does must have a particular
air in it, they supped at Lord Pomfret's: at twelve, Lady Granville,
his mother, and all his family went to bed, but the porter: then
my lord went home, and waited for her in the lodge: she came alone
in a hackney-chair, met him in the hall, and was led up the back
stairs to bed.

What is ridiculously lucky is, that Lord Lincoln goes into waiting,
to-day, and will be to present her!

On Tuesday she stands godmother with the King to Lady Dysart's(920) child,
her new grand-daughter. I am impatient to see the whole m`enage; it
will be admirable. There is a wild young Venetian ambassadress(921)
come, who is reckoned very pretty. I don't think so; she is foolish and
childish to a degree. She said, "Lord! the old secretary is going to be
married!"

hey told her he was but fifty-four. "But fifty-four!

why," said she, "my husband is but two-and-forty, and I think him the
oldest man in the world." Did I tell you that Lord Holderness(922) goes
to Venice with the compliments of accommodation, and leaves Sir
James Grey resident there?

The invasion from Dunkirk seems laid aside. We talk little of our fleets
- Sir John Norris has resigned -.

Lestock is coming home, and sent before him great complaints of
Matthews; so that affair must be cleared up. the King talks much
of going abroad, which will not be very prudent.

The campaign is not opened yet, but I suppose will disclose at once
with great `eclat in several quarters.

I this instant receive your letter of March 31st, with the simple Demetrius,
for which, however, I thank you.

I hope by this time you have received all my letters, and are at peace
about the invasion; which we think so much over, that the Opposition
are now breaking out about the Dutch troops, and call it the worst measure
ever taken.

Those terms so generally dealt to every measure successively, will at
least soften the Hanoverian history.

Adieu! I have nothing more to tell you: I flatter myself you content
yourself with news; I cannot write sentences nor sentiments.

My best love to the Chutes, and now and then let my friends the Prince
and Princess and Florentines know that I shall never forget their
goodness to me.

What is become of Prince Beauvau?

(920) Lady Grace Carteret, eldest daughter of Lord Carteret.
She was married in 1729 to Lionel Tollemache, third Earl of Dysart;
by whom she had fifteen children.

-E.

(921) Wife of Signor Capello.

(922) Robert Darcy, Earl of Holderness, ambassador at Venice and
the Hague, and afterwards secretary of state.
369 Letter 137 To Sir Horace Mann.

London, May 8, 1744.

I begin to breathe a little at ease; we have done with the Parliament
for this year: it rises on Saturday.

We have had but one material day lately, last Thursday. The Opposition
had brought in a bill to make it treason to correspond with the young
Pretenders:(923) the Lords added a clause, after a long debate,
to make it a forfeiture of estates, as it is for dealing with the
father.

We sat till one in the morning, and then carried it by 255 to 106. It
was the best debate I ever heard.(924) The King goes to Kensington
to-morrow, and not abroad.

We hear of great quarrels between Marshal Wade and Duc d'Aremberg. The
French King is at Valenciennes with Monsieur de Noailles, who is
now looked upon as first minister.

He is the least dangerous for us of all. It is affirmed that Cardinal
Tencin is disgraced, who was the very worst for us.

If he is, we shall at least have no invasion this summer. Successors of
ministers seldom take up the schemes of their predecessors; especially
such as by failing caused their ruin, which, I believe, was Tencin's
case at Dunkirk.

For a week we heard of the affair at Villafranca in a worse light than
was true: it certainly turns out ill for both sides. Though the
French have had such a bloody loss, I cannot but think they will
carry their point, and force their passage into Italy.
We have no domestic news, but Lord Lovel's being created Earl of
Leicester, on an old promise which my father had obtained for him.
Earl Berkeley(925) is married to Miss Drax, a very pretty maid of
honour to the Princess; and the Viscount Fitzwilliam(926) to Sir
Matthew Decker's eldest daughter , but these are people I am sure
you don't know.
There is to be a great ball tomorrow at the Duchess of Richmond's
for my Lady Carteret: the Prince is to be there.However, relief was in sight, and, following the suggestion of the good
fairy, he threw himself down on a mossy bank and waited.

Before long the three fairies returned, bearing between them a lily
filled with a white liquid.

As they approached the Queen herself came forth from her crystal palace,
followed by many of her subjects.

Stepping up to where Ned lay, she said in a soft voice: "Do not rise,
for even now you are much too tall. I myself must pour this magic nectar
upon your lips."

So saying, she stepped lightly upon a stone close by and, bending
forward, placed the lily to Ned's mouth.

[Illustration: "DO NOT RISE," SAID THE FAIRY QUEEN.]

The next moment he felt a strange sensation running through him, and
looking down at his hands and feet was delighted to see that they
were becoming smaller and smaller.

Though great was his delight, he did not forget his manners, and,
turning to the little fairy, said: "How may I ever repay you for your
great kindness? Indeed," he added, scarcely able to restrain the tears
which came to his eyes, "whatever would my dear mother have thought had
I returned to her in the form of a giant?"

"Thank me no more," answered the Fairy Queen, "for gladly will I do any
favor for the boy who thinks of his mother first. In the future, should
you need my aid, hang this ring about a bluebird's throat and send him
to me."

And with these words she placed a slender gold ring upon Ned's little
finger.

"But how shall I catch the bird?" asked Ned, his curiosity aroused
before he had time to think of thanking her small highness.

"Whistle thrice upon a blade of grass," she answered, "and the bird will
fly to thee. Then place the ring about his neck and bid him hasten to
the Fairy Queen of the Lake."

During all this time Ned had been growing smaller and smaller. He had
almost forgotten this, when his little friend, the Gnome, exclaimed:
"There! You're your own self again!" At which Ned turned to the Queen,
and, after thanking her again ran hastily to the brook to assure himself
that such was the case.

So, bidding farewell to his kind friend, the Fairy Queen, and her three
Ladies-in-Waiting, he accompanied the Gnome down the valley.


THE MAGIC AXE

Ned meets the King and proposes to cut down the big Oak Tree.

[Illustration]

THE MAGIC AXE


PRESENTLY the Gnome turned to Ned and said:

"I must leave you for a time. But with the Fairy Queen's magic ring upon
your finger, you will be safe from harm. Self reliance is what all boys
should practise. Therefore, travel for a few days alone. At the end of
that time I will join you." And with these words the Gnome disappeared.

For a moment Ned felt a wild desire to call him back. But with a shrug
of his shoulder, he put away the thought and bravely set out in search
of further adventure.

He had gone but a short distance when he came to a Magic Axe, chopping
away all by itself at one of the tallest trees.

"Good morning, Mistress Axe," he said. "Doesn't it tire you to be
chopping away all alone there at that old tree?"

"Not at all, my son. Put me in your knapsack and I will make you
famous."

Picking up the axe, Ned placed it in his knapsack and set off once more.
After a while, he came to a place where the road was hollowed out of a
mass of solid rock, and here, in the distance, he heard a sharp noise
like that of iron striking against stone.

"Some giant must be breaking rocks away up there," he said to himself,
and climbed up the mountain. When he reached the top of the high rock,
he found a Magic Pickaxe, all alone by itself, digging away at the hard
stone as if it were soft clay.

Every time that wonderful pickaxe struck a blow it went more than a foot
into the rock.

"Good morning, Mistress Pickaxe," said Ned. "Doesn't it tire you to be
digging alone here, hollowing away at that old rock?"

"Not at all, my little man. Put me in your knapsack and I will make you
famous."

Ned picked up the pickaxe and placing it in his knapsack, again went on.

After a while he came to a brook which he followed up the hillside.

The farther he went the smaller it grew until finally, it ended in a
little nutshell, from which this tiny stream began its journey down the
mountain.

"Good morning, Miss Spring," said Ned. "Doesn't it tire you to be
gushing away all alone by yourself in your little corner?"

"Indeed it does, my little man. Put me in your knapsack and I will make
you famous."

Ned picked up the little nutshell and plugging it up with moss, placed
it carefully in his knapsack with the Magic Axe and the Magic Pickaxe.

After some little time he came to a king's palace. Now, although it was
a magnificent palace, everyone living there was perfectly miserable, for
one morning, without the least warning, an immense oak had sprung up,
with leaves and branches so thick that they shut out the sun from all
the windows, making the castle as dark as night.

Of course in those days there was no gas and electricity, and although
the king had commanded that candles be made as high as barber poles,
they spluttered and often went out when the wind blew.

All the woodcutters in the kingdom had tried to cut down this tree, but
its bark was so tough that it turned the edge of every axe, and for
every branch that was lopped off, two instantly grew in its place. At
last the king had offered three bags of gold to anyone who would rid him
of his troublesome oaktree.

Now this was not the only trouble that beset the poor king. For,
although the surrounding country was rich in springs and brooks, the
royal gardens were dry as the desert of Sahara. And although the king
had also promised three bags of gold to anyone who would dig a well, no
one had yet been able to dig deeper than a foot, as the palace was built
on a rock of solid granite.

Each day the king grew more angry, but of course that did no good. At
last calling the poet laureate of his kingdom, he asked him what should
be done.

Running his fingers through his long curly hair, the poet thought a
while. Then summoning the Royal Carpenter, ordered him to make an
immense placard, on which, when finished, this wise poet printed:

          "To him who cuts my oaktree down
             I'll give three bags of gold
          But he who fails shall lose his life
             And lie beneath the mold."

"But what good will that exquisite poem do?" asked the king,
sarcastically.

"It will keep your Royal Highness from being irritated by this endless
sound of chop, chop, chop," replied the poet. "I verily believe every
man in your kingdom has had a hack at the tree. Now, he who reads this
sign, will first make sure his axe is a good one. And my poetic ears
will be spared much of this frightful noise which is far worse than a
steel rivetter at work on a ninety story building in New York City."
Which shows that this poet had an eye that could see into the future,
for at that time, as far as I know, Columbus hadn't even asked the Queen
of Spain to pawn her diamond rings!

"Very well," replied the king, "have the sign nailed on this dreadful
tree and we will see what happens."

As soon as Ned arrived at the castle he bowed politely to the king, who
happened to be standing nearby with all his courtiers.

"Ha, ha," laughed the king, as Ned read the sign. "Do you, too, wish to
lose your ears?" At which all the courtiers laughed heartily, the first
time in many months that anybody in that castle had laughed, or even
smiled, for that matter.

"I can but try," answered Ned bravely, and opening his knapsack, took
out his Magic Axe. Standing it up, with the handle leaning against the
enchanted tree, he stepped back a few feet and shouted: "Chop, chop,
chop!"

At once the axe began to chop, now right, now left, and up and down, and
in an incredibly short time that immense tree was cut to bits. It took
only a quarter of an hour, and yet there was such a monstrous heap of
wood that the whole court needed nothing else to burn for a whole year.

But when Ned asked the king for the three bags of gold, that stingy old
monarch said, "Before I give you the reward, you must perform another
task."

"What is it?" asked Ned.

"You must dig me a well so that I may have plenty of water," answered
the king.


THE MAGIC SPRING

Ned mounted the little Donkey and rode away.


[Illustration]

THE MAGIC SPRING


"I CAN but try, your Majesty," said Ned bravely, and again opening his
knapsack, took out his Magic Pickaxe. Laying it carefully on the ground
in the proper position, he shouted:

"Pick, pick, pick!"

At once the pick began to burst the granite to splinters, and in less
than a quarter of an hour had dug a well more than a hundred feet deep
in the solid rock.

"Is the well deep enough, your Majesty?" asked Ned politely.

"Certainly," answered the king, "but where is the water to come from?"
And he winked at his courtiers, who smiled to themselves, for they all
thought Ned would fail, after all, for as yet there wasn't a drop of
water in the well.

But Ned wasn't discouraged. He quietly opened his knapsack again and
took out the nutshell covered with moss, and placed it on a magnificent
fountain vase which, not having any water, had been filled with a
beautiful bouquet of flowers.

"Gush, gush, gush!" he shouted, stepping aside to avoid a wetting.

At once water began to burst out among the flowers, singing with a
gentle murmur, and falling down in a sparkling cascade, that was so cold
it made everybody shiver. And in less than a quarter of an hour the well
was filled, and a deep trench had to be dug to take away the overflow,
otherwise the whole palace would have been flooded.

"You have indeed earned the reward," said the king. And he ordered a
little donkey saddled and bridled and the six bags of gold hung from his
back, three on either side. After which Ned was invited to a great
feast, and when that was over, he mounted the little donkey and rode
away, with the three bags of gold hanging from each side of the saddle
and a little gold ring on his finger, which the king's daughter gave him
after washing her pretty face in water for the first time in many
months.

But before Ned rode away, he put his Magic Axe and his Magic Pickaxe
back in his knapsack, "for who can tell," he said to himself, "what need
I may have of these two useful tools."

His knapsack was now well filled, for the cook in the royal kitchen had
also placed in it a loaf of bread, a cheese and a knife in case he
became hungry while on his journey of adventure.

As Ned traveled on, the forest became darker and darker, for the trees
grew so close together that the sun could hardly shine through the thick
leafy roof. Suddenly he heard a great voice singing:

          "I am the master of this wood
             And everyone bows to me,
          My head is as big as a drygoods box
             And my legs as long as a tree."

Then, all at once, the voice changed to a whistle, which sounded like
the siren on a sound steamer when the weather is foggy.

"It must be a giant singing," thought Ned. "Goodness! but he's a loud
whistler. I guess he blows through his fingers!" and he hid beneath a
clump of bushes.

"Ho, ho!" cried the voice, and a giant came crashing through the forest.

On seeing Ned, he shouted:

"Come out of there, and I'll make a mouthful of you."

"Don't be in a hurry," replied Ned bravely. "I'm going to make you my
servant."

"Ho, ho!" laughed the giant, "that is a good joke! I'll pitch you into
that raven's nest up there to teach you to make less noise in my
forest."

"_Your_ forest!" laughed Ned. "It's as much mine as yours, and if you
say another word, I'll cut it down in a quarter of an hour."

"Ha, ha!" shouted the giant, "I should like to see you begin, my brave
Sir Kid!"

Carefully placing his Magic Axe on the ground, Ned shouted, "Chop, chop,
chop!"

At once the axe began to chop, now right, now left, and up and down,
till the branches tumbled down on the giant's head like hail in autumn.

"Stop, stop!" cried the giant. "Don't destroy my forest. Who the
mischief are you?"

"Sit down and I'll tell you the story of the famous Puss in Boots, who
once killed a giant and gave his castle to his Master, the Lord of
Carabas," said Ned.

"How could a cat kill a giant? You are making sport of me."

"Not at all," replied Ned. "Have you never read the story of Puss in
Boots?"

"No, but I once heard my cousin, the Giant of the Beanstalk, speak of a
cat who wore boots. But that was long ago when we were both boys."

"Well, I'll tell you then," said Ned. "Puss in Boots' master was the
youngest of three sons. When their father died, the two older brothers
received the farm and money, while he was left nothing but a Cat, who
said to him one day, 'Do just what I tell you and I will make you rich.
Give me a bag and a pair of boots, because the brambles scratch my legs,
and you shall see what I will do for you.'

"Well, when the boots were made and he had put them on, he hung the bag
about his neck, and set out for a rabbit warren where lived great
numbers of rabbits. Opening the bag he stretched himself out as though
he were dead, and waited for a hungry rabbit to poke his nose into the
bag to eat the bran. Pretty soon along came a young rabbit and as soon
as it had crept in to eat the bran, Puss in Boots pulled the string, and
that was the last of the little rabbit.

"Then, running off to the palace, he gave it to the king, saying it was
a present from his master, my Lord of Carabas, the name he had invented
for his young master. Every day he brought some kind of game, until by
and by the king thought my Lord of Carabas a great man and Puss in Boots
a most wonderful cat, which indeed he was."

"He was indeed," said the big giant, moving uneasily on the log on which
he was sitting.

"Well, one day," continued Ned, "Puss in Boots bade his master bathe in
the river, and leave the rest to him. Just then the King passed by.

"'Help, help!' cried Puss. 'Robbers have stolen my master's clothes!'

"At once the king ordered his guards to the rescue, and fitting out my
Lord of Carabas with a new suit of clothes, invited him to ride in the
coach with his beautiful daughter.

"As they rolled along they came in sight of a castle owned by a bad
giant."


MAGIC FOOD

The Giant cannot understand how Ned can eat cheese.

[Illustration]

MAGIC FOOD


"PUSS IN BOOTS, who had reached the castle in advance of the royal
party, opened the door and said with a low bow to the wicked ogre:

"'I hear you have the power to change yourself into any animal.'

"'That is true,' answered the ogre, so pleased that at once he turned
himself into a lion.

"'I doubt if you can become as small as a mouse,' said Puss in Boots.

"Instantly the ogre changed himself into a mouse, whereupon Puss in
Boots pounced upon him and ate him up.

"At that moment up drove the coach. Throwing open the castle door, Puss
in Boots said with a hospitable bow:

"'Welcome to the castle of my Lord of Carabas.' And, to make a long
story short," laughed Ned, "his master married the King's daughter and
lived happily ever after."

"Whew!" gasped the giant. "He certainly was a wonderful cat," and he
looked anxiously at the Magic Axe.

Presently Ned began to feel hungry, and opening his knapsack, took out
his bread and cheese.

"What is that white stuff?" asked the giant, who had never seen cheese
before.

"That is a stone," answered Ned, commencing to eat it with a hungry
appetite.

"Do you eat stones?" asked the giant.

"Oh yes," answered Ned. "That's my regular food, which explains why I'm
not so big as you who eat oxen; but it's also the reason why, little as
I am, I am ten times as strong as you are. Now take me to your house."

The giant looked at the Magic Axe which had so nearly destroyed his
forest, and then at Ned eating a stone with apparent relish.

"I will," he said, and humbly led the way to his monstrous cabin.

"Now listen," said Ned to the giant after they were fairly seated, "one
of us must be the master, and the other the servant. If I can't do
whatever you do, I am to be your slave; if you're not able to do
whatever I do, you are to be mine."

"Agreed," said the giant. "I'd be tickled to death to have a little
servant like you. It's too much work for me to think, and you have
brains enough for both. Well, let's start the trial. Here are my two
buckets,--go and get the water to make the soup!"

Ned looked at the buckets, the tops of which he couldn't even see, for
they were two enormous hogsheads, ten feet high and six broad. It would
have been much easier for him to drown himself in them than to move
them.

"Ho, ho!" shouted the giant. "Do what I do and get the water."

"What's the good of that?" replied Ned. "I'll go get the spring itself
to put in the pot," knowing that he could easily run back to the king's
castle for the little magic nutshell.

"No, no!" said the giant, "that won't do. You have already half spoiled
my forest with your Magic Axe. I don't want you to take my spring away.
You may attend to the fire, and I'll go for the water."

So the giant hung up the kettle, put into it an ox cut into pieces,
fifty cabbages, and a wagon-load of carrots, skimming the broth with a
frying pan, tasting it every now and then until it was done. When
everything was ready, he turned and said:

"Now we'll see if you can do what I can. I feel like eating the whole
ox, and you into the bargain. I think I'll serve you for dessert."

"All right," answered little Ned. But before sitting down he slipped his
knapsack under his jacket.

Then the two champions set to work. Perhaps Ned was a trifle nervous,
knowing only too well that if he failed he must be the giant's servant.

Well, the giant ate and ate, and Ned wasn't idle; only he pitched
everything, beef, cabbage, carrots, and all, into his knapsack when the
giant wasn't looking.

"Ouf!" at last grunted the giant, "I can't do much more. I've got to
undo the lower button of my waistcoat."

"Eat away, starveling!" cried Ned, sticking half a cabbage into his
knapsack.

"Ouf!" groaned the giant, "I must loosen another button. But what sort
of an ostrich's stomach have you got, Kiddo? I should say you were used
to eating stones!"

"Eat away, lazy-bones!" said Ned, sticking a huge chunk of beef into his
knapsack.

"Ouf!" sighed the giant for the third time, "I must open the third
button."

"Bah!" answered Ned. "It's the easiest thing to relieve yourself," and
taking his knife, he slit his jacket and the knapsack under it the whole
length of his stomach. "Now's your turn. Do as I do, _if you can!_"

"Excuse me!" gasped the giant. "You win. I'd rather be your servant
than do that."

Then kissing Ned's hand in token of submission, he lifted his little
master on his shoulder, and slinging the six bags of gold over his back,
started off through the forest.

"Wait a minute," said Ned, "I've forgotten my Magic tools." So the giant
picked them up and thrusting them in his pocket, again set off at a
tremendous rate.

After a while, they came in sight of a great castle where lived a lord
even more wicked than the cruel Blue Beard. As they drew nearer, they
heard loud screams like those of some fair lady in distress. The next
minute the wicked lord dragged a lovely lady by the hair across the
courtyard.

With one stride the giant stepped over the castle wall.

"Shall I toss him over the moon?" he asked.

"No, leave him to me," replied Ned. The wicked lord trembled and grew as
pale as a white swan that swam nearby in a beautiful fountain.

"My giant servant at a sign from me, will pitch you over the moon. But
instead, as you have the reputation of being the greatest liar that ever
lived, we will see who can tell the biggest story, you or I. If you
lose, you shall give your castle to this fair lady and take yourself
off, I don't care where, but you must never return."

At once the wicked lord commenced to tell the biggest story he could
imagine.

"I have a bull so large that a man can sit on each of his horns, and the
two can't touch each other with a twenty foot pole."

"Oh, that's nothing," replied Ned. "At home on the farm we have a bull
so large that a servant sitting on one of his horns can't see the
servant sitting on the other."

"You win," laughed the pretty princess, clapping her hands at Ned. Then
the wicked lord went to his stable and saddling his best horse, rode
away. But as he passed through the gate, Ned touched his steed with his
magic gold ring. Instantly the horse turned into an immense bird and
flew away. But where he went no one knows to this day.


MAGIC EARS

The Man with Ears like a Donkey invited Ned to eat with him.

[Illustration]

MAGIC EARS


"DEAR me," said the giant suddenly. "I've forgotten all about my errand.
You and your Magic Axe have robbed me of my memory," and the big man
scratched his hand and looked anxiously at Ned.

"What is it?"

"I was to take a chicken to my old mother," answered the giant sadly.

"Go ahead," said Ned. "I can take care of myself. At any rate it is
about time my friend the Gnome came back to me."

"You are very kind," said the giant. "Here are your Magic Axe and your
Magic Pickaxe. I almost forgot them," and he set off at a great rate for
his mother's house.

Ned, too, quickened his pace, for it was growing late, and the shadows
creeping from tree to tree. At length he saw a light in the distance. It
was a very little light, not much larger than a star, and at first Ned
thought it might be a giant firefly. However, he kept on and after a
while it turned out to be a little candle in the window of a poor
woodcutter's hut. Knocking on the door, it was presently opened by a
strange looking man. He had long hairy ears like a donkey and was
dressed in the skins of wild animals.

"Welcome," he said in a kindly voice, "I am just preparing my evening
meal. Come in and eat." Ned followed the donkey-eared man into the
cottage and sat down at the rude wooden table on which were spread black
bread and beans.

"I have but humble fare to offer you," said the donkey-eared man, but
his smile was a kind one as he helped Ned to the beans with a large
wooden spoon. "But as I see you are a traveler, you no doubt have fared
worse at times," and he smiled again in such a friendly way, that Ned
took a great liking to him.

"You are right. I'm a traveler, seeking adventures and many strange
things I have seen while visiting Gnomeland."

"I have heard little of the world since my ears were changed into those
of a donkey," sighed the donkey-eared man.

"Is there no magic charm which will remove them?" asked Ned, as he
finished the last bean on his plate and wiped his mouth carefully with
the pocket handkerchief which his kind mother had given him the very
morning he had set out for Gnomeland.

"None whatever," answered the man with a sigh. "There is no charm nor
magic herb, but I've heard tell of a Magic Axe that once cut down a
charmed oak tree overshadowing a king's palace. But where am I to find
that Magic Axe?"

          "Oh master dear, pray ask this lad
             Your donkey ears to sever;
          For then your own two ears will take
             Their place as good as ever,"

sang a little bird from her tree in the forest.

When Ned heard that, he jumped up and went behind the door where he had
hung his knapsack. Taking out the Magic Axe, he laid it on the table
before the donkey-eared man.

"Cut off my ears!" shouted the donkey-eared man.

"I can't do it," said Ned, trembling all over.

"Do as I ask you," begged the donkey-eared man, laying his head on the
table.

Instead, however, Ned touched the donkey ears with his little magic gold
ring, at the same time whispering, "Away with you!"

Off went the long, hairy ears, and the next minute, two grew in their
place, just like yours and mine.

          "Oh, now I'm free from donkey ears,
          Three cheers and once, again, three cheers!
          No more the witch's evil snare
          Shall force me donkey ears to wear!"

sang the donkey-eared man, dancing about the room.

All the next day Ned trudged on alone until towards evening, he came to
the edge of a pine-forest, where close at hand stood a small hut made of
pine-branches, plastered with mud and thatched with rye-straw. No sooner
had he tapped on the door than it was opened by a girl. She looked out
timidly, thinking, I suppose, it might be a robber. But when she saw
Ned, she smiled.

"Come in," she said, and Ned saw four small children staring curiously
at him.

The room was very smoky, for there was no chimney to the rude hut. A
hole in the roof let the smoke out, and there were no windows, for the
father of these children was a poor peasant who made his living by
gathering turpentine in the pine forest.

Ned sat down, while the girl went on with her work until the black beans
were ready for supper, when she put them all in a big wooden bowl, and
invited Ned to join her and the four children.

While they were eating out of the bowl with a wooden spoon, a tame
jackdaw who had been sitting on an old stool by the fireside, hopped
over and perched himself close to Ned.

When the supper was over, and the children were ready for bed, he
whispered, "This little family is very poor. Their father is away
selling turpentine, and there is little food in the cupboard. But if you
will come with me tonight, I will show you how we can help them."

When all the children were sound asleep, Ned looked over to the fireside
where the jackdaw sat, his eyes shining brighter and brighter through
the darkness, till they made the room so light that Ned could plainly
see the five sleeping children huddled together on the straw bed in the
corner.

Then the jackdaw nodded, and hopping down from the stool on which he
sat, walked softly over to the door.

The moon shone brightly on the bare brown fields silvered with white
frost, and in the still, cold air, the forest looked like a black cloud
just dropped upon the earth.


THE MAGIC BASKET

The Little Old Woman made a low bow to the Jackdaw.

[Illustration]

THE MAGIC BASKET


ON and on they went, the jackdaw hopping over the rough fields, and now
and then turning his head and winking his fiery eyes at Ned, until they
found themselves at the foot of a high, round hill.

At one side of the great mound the stream which they had been following
suddenly stopped short, making a deep well, over which hung an old oak
tree, leafless now, but still strewing the ground with dry acorns.

Right at the foot of this tree was an upright gray stone, apparently
part of a rock deeply sunk in the hillside. Beside this stone the
jackdaw paused, and, turning to nod reassuringly at Ned, picked up a
pebble about the size of an acorn and dropped it into the well, at the
same time knocking gently on the flat stone with his bill.

In a moment the rock opened in the middle, and there stood a little old
woman, as withered as a spring apple and as bright as a butterfly,
dressed in a scarlet bodice covered with spangles and a black petticoat
worked in square characters with all the colors of the rainbow.

Ned thought she was not nearly as attractive as the fairies whom he had
but lately left, although she had on more colors than even the Queen
Fairy.

On seeing the jackdaw she made a low bow, and in a shrill eager voice
invited them in. Ned hesitated, but the little old woman snatched his
hand and pulled him in, asking in a whisper, "Dost thou fear for thyself
when visiting the King of the Gnomes?"

Then, opening a low door in the side of the cavern, she beckoned them to
follow. In the middle of a still larger vault stood an arm chair
fashioned from beryl and jasper, with knobs of amethyst and topaz, in
which sat Ned's friend, the Gnome.

He was dressed in a robe of velvet, green and soft as forest moss, and a
ring of gold lay on his grizzled hair. His little eyes shone keen and
fiery, and his hands, withered and brown, were now covered with
glittering jewels.

About the cave a hundred little men, smaller than he, were busy in a
hundred ways. Some stirred kettles of smoking broth; others sliced fresh
vegetables for crisp salads. Some spread a table, with golden plates
and crystal goblets; three turned huge pieces of meat on a spit before a
fire at the end of the cavern, while a dozen more watched the simmering
pots.

The jackdaw hopped gravely past all this toward the chair of the Gnome
King, who stretched out his sceptre, a tall bulrush of gold, and touched
the jackdaw, who at once turned into a dwarf.

Making a low bow to the Gnome King, he turned to Ned and said:

"I was forced to take the form of a jackdaw for twenty years because I
once said that gold was not as yellow as buttercups nor so bright as
sunshine. This made the Gnomes angry, because their belief is that gold
is the most beautiful thing in the world. My punishment is now over and
I need never return to the earth again. But I would do a favor to the
poor peasant children who were so good to me."

"What favor would you ask for the poor peasant children?" asked the
Gnome King.

"I would send them a Magic Basket filled with food," answered the dwarf.

No sooner had he spoken, than the Gnome ordered his subjects to fill a
Magic Basket with all kinds of good things to eat. There was a golden
bowl of smoking stew, a crystal goblet of wine, a golden dish of mashed
potatoes and another of rice pudding.

And when the Magic Basket was covered with a damask napkin, it was
handed to a dwarf messenger to take to the poor woodcutter's children,
while all the little dwarfs stood around him and sang:

          "In this basket they will find
          Food and drink of magic kind.
            Never will it empty grow
          And no hunger they shall know."

"Hereafter," said the Gnome King, looking kindly at Ned, "a bluebird
shall be your companion and will show you many and curious things. I can
spare no more time, for my people must be governed, and while I have
given you more attention than any other mortal because of your great
fondness for fairy tales, I must now leave you in the care of this
bluebird, unless, perchance, you wish to return to earth at once."

To which Ned answered eagerly that he would much rather see more of
Gnomeland before again returning to the everyday routine of grammar
school and lessons.

"The people of this island and of all the others which I have discovered
or heard of, both men and women, go naked as they were born,
although some of the women wear leaves of herbs or a cotton covering
made on purpose.

They have no iron or steel, nor any weapons; not that they are not a
well-disposed people and of fine stature, but they are timid to a degree.
They have no other arms excepting spears made of cane, to which they
fix at the end a sharp piece of wood, and then dare not use even
these.

Frequently I had occasion to send two or three of my men onshore to
some settlement for information, where there would be multitudes of them;
and as soon as they saw our people they would run away every soul,
the father leaving his child; and this was not because any one had
done them harm, for rather at every cape where I had landed and
been able to communicate with them I have made them presents of
cloth and many other things without receiving anything in return;
but because they are so timid.

Certainly, where they have confidence and forget their fears, they are so
open-hearted and liberal with all they possess that it is scarcely to be
believed without seeing it. If anything that they have is asked of them
they never deny it; on the contrary, they will offer it. Their generosity
is so great that they would give anything, whether it is costly or not,
for anything of every kind that is offered them and be contented with it.
I was obliged to prevent such worth less things being given them as
pieces of broken basins, broken glass, and bits of shoe-latchets,
although when they obtained them they esteemed them as if they had
been the greatest of treasures.

One of the seamen for a latchet received a piece of gold weighing two
dollars and a half, and others, for other things of much less
value, obtained more.

Again, for new silver coin they would give everything they possessed,
whether it was worth two or three doubloons or one or two balls
of cotton.

Even for pieces of broken pipe-tubes they would take them and give anything
for them, until, when I thought it wrong, I prevented it. And I made
them presents of thousands of things which I had, that I might win
their esteem, and also that they might be made good Christians and be
disposed to the service of Your Majesties and the whole Spanish nation,
and help us to obtain the things which we require and of which
there is abundance in their country.

"And these people appear to have neither religion nor idolatry, except
that they believe that good and evil come from the skies; and they
firmly believed that our ships and their crews, with myself, came from
the skies, and with this persuasion,--after having lost their
fears, they always received us.

What are you afraid of?" cried the dwarf in a little, dry
voice, that sounded like the cracking of a dry twig beneath one's foot.

Ned hesitated, and, as if seeking the comfort of something alive and
friendly, thrust his hand into his pocket alongside of the little
bluebird.

"Come on! Come on, little master," repeated the dwarf. "Here I have been
waiting more than an hour to tell you some good news, and now that you
are here you would hinder me because you are such a coward."

"I don't know you," said Ned, as an excuse.

"Well, well, no matter for that. I know you well enough. Would you read
about gnomes and then be so cowardly that you would fear to associate
with them?"

As he finished speaking, he arose, disclosing a doorway in the trunk of
the pine tree behind him.

At that moment, a beautiful dwarf maiden emerged therefrom, and, as if
having heard the conversation, said: "He is no coward, father. See, he
will shake hands with me!"

Ned put out his hand, but drew it back just in time to escape having the
gold ring which the Fairy Queen had given him, slipped off his finger by
the dwarf maiden.

"Selfish mortal," she cried, "'tis nothing but a little gold band. Give
it to me. See, I will exchange this beautiful diamond for it," and she
held out a sparkling stone set in a gold ring.

Ned drew back in alarm, more especially as the dwarf himself advanced
with a threatening attitude.

Continuing to step back, Ned kept his eyes upon the dwarf, who advanced
now with upraised fist. Seeing this, Ned quickly threw off his coat and
picking up a stout stick, prepared to defend himself.

It would have gone ill with him, for the dwarf was surprisingly strong
and agile, had not relief come from an unexpected quarter.

[Illustration: NED THREW OFF HIS COAT.]

"On Spencer street, a new frame building was levelled with the ground.
Along Myrtle, Classon, and other streets and avenues of East Brooklyn,
many of the shade trees were uprooted, and the windows smashed. In Jay
street, two trees were struck by lightning, but no other damage
ensued.

"Several schooners at the foot of Jay street were forced from their
moorings, but were soon after secured. A small frame house in Spencer
street, just put under roof, was prostrated to the ground.

"We understand that a large barn filled with hay, situated on the road
between Bushwick and Flushing, was struck by lightning and destroyed
with its contents, embracing several head of live stock

."[20]
_July_ 10th, 3 A.M. Overcast and much lightning in south (N. mod.); 7 A.M.,
clear except in south; 6 P.M. (E.); 10 P.M., lightning south; 11 P.M.,
auroral rays long but faint, converging to a point between Epsilon
Virginis and Denebola, in west; low down in west thick with haze;
on the north the rays converged to a point still lower; lightning
still visible in south.

This is an aurora in the west.

11th. Fine clear morning (N.

-E.); same all day; no lightning visible to-night, but a bank of clouds
low down in south, 2° high, and streaks of dark stratus below the upper
margin.

12th. Fine and clear (N.-E.); noon, a well defined arch in S.-W., rising
slowly; the bank yellowish, with prismatic shades of greenish yellow
on its borders.

This is the O. A. At 6 P.M., the bank spreading to the northward. At
9 P.M., thick bank of haze in north, with bright auroral margin;
one heavy pyramid of light passed through Cassiopæa, travelling
_westward_ 1½° per minute.

This moves to the other side of the pole, but not more inclined towards
it than is due to prospective, if the shaft is very long; 11.10 P.M.,
saw a mass of light more diffuse due east, reaching to _Markab_,
then on the prime vertical.

It appears evident this is seen in profile, as it inclines downwards
at an angle of 10° or 12° from the perpendicular. It does not seem very
distant.

12 P.M., the aurora still bright, but the brightest part is now west
of the pole, before it was east.

13th, 6 A.M.

Clear, east and north; bank of cirrus in N.-W., _i.e._, from N.-N.-E. to
W. by S.; irregular branches of cirrus clouds, reaching almost to
south-eastern horizon; wind changed (S.

-E. fresh); 8 A.M., the sky a perfect picture; heavy regular shafts of
dense cirrus radiating all around, and diverging from a thick
nucleus in north-west, the spaces between being of clear blue sky.

The shafts are rotating from north to south, the nucleus advancing
eastward.

Appearance of the central vortex descending at 8 A.M., July 13th,
1853:
In Fig. 18, the circle represents the whole sky from the zenith to
the horizon, yet it can convey but a very faint idea of the regularity
and vividness of this display.

The reflected image of the sky was received from a vessel of turbid
water, which will be found better than a mirror, when the wind will
permit.

[Illustration: Fig. 18]

At noon (same day) getting thicker (S.-E. very fresh); 6 P.M., moon on
meridian, a prismatic gloom in south, and very thick stratus of all shades;
9 P.M., very gloomy; wind stronger (S.-E.): 10 P.M., very black in
south, and overcast generally.

14th.

Last night about 12 P.M. commenced raining; 3 A.M., rained steadily;
7 A.M., same weather; 8.20 A.M., a line of low storm-cloud, or
seud, showing very sharp and white on the dark back ground all along
the southern sky.

So he and the giant followed her into the stately hall, the latter
finding it necessary to stoop each time he entered a doorway, for
although the castle was built on magnificent lines it had not occurred
to the architect that a giant would ever be a guest.

When they were all seated, except the giant, who sprawled on the floor,
as there was no chair large enough to accommodate him, the beautiful
princess said:

"I would ask you to spend the night here, but my wicked stepfather
returns tonight, and I fear he will do you some injury."

"I fear nothing," answered Ned courageously, standing up to appear more
dignified, "and if I can be of any service to you, say but a word, for I
have a trusty friend in the giant, and also a clever one in my little
bluebird, to say nothing of the magic of this ring," and he touched the
gold band about his finger and bowed again to the beautiful princess.

"My stepfather is very crafty," said the princess, looking at Ned
intently, as if weighing the possibilities of his assistance. "He once
changed a giant into a pine tree!" At these words, the giant began to
shake and tremble so that the cut glass chandeliers rattled all over the
castle.

"Remember, I have the magic ring," Ned whispered, leaning over to where
the giant lay upon the floor; "nothing can harm us with that in our
possession."

"What would you have me do?" asked Ned, turning again to the beautiful
princess, for he felt that she was unwilling to ask him the favor,
fearing it might prove of harm to him.

Still the beautiful princess remained silent until the bluebird began to
sing a sweet song, perching meanwhile upon her shoulder, as if intending
the song for her ears especially.

Then tears fell from her eyes.

"'Tis the song my brother was wont to sing," she said, "but now"--and
hiding her face in her hands, she wept more bitterly than before--"he
has been sent away and hidden by my cruel stepfather I know not where."

"We will find him for you, princess," cried Ned. "Fear not, for I have
confidence in my two comrades and in myself. Give us all something to
eat that we may have strength to undertake this adventure."

The princess immediately ordered a great feast to be set before them,
and when our three comrades had eaten their fill they once more set out
upon their journey, with the prayers of the beautiful princess for their
safety and successful return.

As they wound their way through the pleasant valley, every so often the
little bluebird would sing her song, loud and sweet, and then would
pause, with folded wing, to listen, as if expecting an answer.

So they went on for many miles, until, as they approached a cottage by
the roadside, Ned thought he heard a familiar air. Indeed, he was sure
that something important was about to happen, for the bluebird was
whirring around in circles and singing as if her life depended upon the
way she trilled and warbled.

"Why, there is a bluebird in that wicker cage!" exclaimed Ned, pointing
toward the cottage porch, from which swung a bird cage.

It was, indeed, true, and in another moment Ned's bluebird was perched
on the railing close by.

Scrambling down from the giant's friendly shoulder, Ned touched the
cage, and, to his amazement, the little door flew open and out walked a
handsome young prince, about his own age.

"Who are you?" cried Ned, but before he could reply the giant exclaimed:
"He must be the brother of the princess! We have, indeed, completed our
adventure, or nearly so," he added, remembering they had yet to deal
with the crafty stepfather.

"How can I ever repay you?" cried the little prince, who was at first
unable to speak from the joy of it all. "I am free! I am free!" And he
almost cried with delight, flinging his arms about Ned's sturdy form
and patting the leg of the giant.

"Come, little bluebird, and let me thank you, too," he added, as the
pretty bird circled in the air and alighted on Ned's shoulder. Indeed,
it was a happy moment for all.

"And now," said Ned, "let us think of the best way to return to the
castle, so that the princess may receive her long-lost brother."

"The easiest way is the best way," said the giant. "Both you boys climb
up on my back, and in 500 short seconds we'll be back at the castle, or
I have forgotten my early training on the cinder path."

All of which goes to show that even in Gnomeland there are sports,
although few fairy tales tell us anything about them.

When Ned and the prince had seated themselves comfortably on the great
shoulders of the obliging giant, he set off at a tremendous rate, and
soon they were ascending the hill on which stood the castle of the
beautiful princess.


THE MAGIC RING

The Unhappy Little Princess leaned out of the window and sobbed.

[Illustration]

THE MAGIC RING


NED followed the beautiful princess and her brother into the castle,
while the giant, who had to stoop nearly to the floor in order to enter
the doorway, brought up the rear.

As it was late, everyone decided to go to bed. Besides, they were all
well tired out after their exciting day.

You would have laughed to see the giant ascend the stairway to the royal
bedchambers, for the steps were too small for his feet, and it was with
great difficulty that he managed to get a foothold with the toes of his
boots.

When at last he was safely inside his bedroom, the largest in the
castle, it was found that the bedstead was not nearly long enough for
him.

So the princess gave orders that two cot beds be placed ends together,
and in this way the giant, by allowing his feet to project through the
open window, could lie down at full length. His feet nearly reached the
tree that grew just outside, on which the little bluebird had perched
for the night, and it was lucky, indeed, that it was midsummer, for
otherwise our big friend might have caught a severe cold.

After bidding the giant goodnight the little bluebird had a few minutes'
talk with Ned while he undressed himself.

[Illustration: THE STEPS WERE TOO SMALL FOR THE GIANT.]

She agreed to act as sentinel during the night, to keep a vigilant
lookout from the treetop, and in case of approaching danger instantly to
awaken Ned and the giant.

Gradually the great castle grew quiet, until nothing was stirring, "not
even a mouse."

At times the night wind rustled the leaves in the tree where the little
bluebird sentinel sat winking and blinking, and the big yellow moon
glistened fantastically on the big toe of the giant.

Toward midnight a faint sound in the distance, like the beat of horses'
hoofs, startled the bluebird.

Hastily flying toward the castle entrance she gazed out upon the roadway
that wound up from the valley below.

At some distance she made out dimly the figures of a number of horsemen.

Returning swiftly to the castle, she tweaked the giant's big toe. That,
you can easily imagine, awoke him with a start.

"What's the matter?" he asked in a frightened whisper which, although
only a whisper, was enough to make the castle tremble, thereby awakening
Ned and the princess herself.

"The crafty stepfather of the princess is coming," answered the
bluebird.

"Then it's all up with me," cried the giant, "for he'll change me again
into a pine tree."

The bluebird made no reply, but hastened to find Ned. On entering his
bedroom through the half open window she found him already dressing.
"Take the ring," he said, slipping it over her glossy neck, after she
had informed him of what she had seen. "If you can manage to touch him
with it, this wicked man will find that he has no power whatever to harm
us."

"I will make haste," replied the little bird, "for they must by this
time have reached the drawbridge."

So saying she flew swiftly away and reached the other side of the moat
just as the cavalcade set foot upon the bridge.

Awaiting her opportunity to touch the wicked stepfather of the princess
with the magic ring, she alighted quietly on the tip of a spear which
one of the horsemen carried.

As they neared the center of the drawbridge the king, as if suddenly
aware of an unseen power, exclaimed: "I feel there is danger near!"

Then the horseman shook his spear defiantly and so startled the little
bluebird that she nearly lost her footing, and alas! what was much more
serious, caused her to loosen her hold upon the little magic gold ring,
which slipped from between her bill and fell into the waters of the
moat.

Like a falling star, it shivered and glimmered in the rays of the moon
as it descended, attracting the attention of a speckled trout, who
opened his mouth and swallowed it as it splashed upon the silvery
surface of the water.

"Your trusty spear has done me good service in times gone by," exclaimed
the wicked king, not knowing that its owner had unknowingly been the
cause of saving him at the present moment.

On came the cavalcade, the wicked attendants of the king inside the
castle opening the gates and allowing him and his men to enter the
courtyard.

Ned looked down from his window and wondered what had become of the
bluebird. He did not feel afraid, but at the same time he realized that
he was not in friendly hands. The giant, on hearing the gates open, had
quickly drawn in his feet and was struggling to get his shoes on when
Ned appeared at the door.

"It's all up!" said the big fellow, with a wry face and a catch in his
gruff voice. "I can feel already the pine-needles beginning to stick out
all over me."

"Oh, that's gooseflesh, you're so scared!" replied Ned, smiling in spite
of the gravity of the situation. "It may not be as bad as you think!"

Just then a great pounding on the front doors told them that the King
was seeking admittance. "Who has locked the doors?" he shouted.

"Wait a minute," said the sweet voice of the princess; "we did not
expect you so late," and she ran down the stairs and opened the door
herself.

"I have two visitors upstairs," she said, as the angry monarch stepped
inside.

"What!" he shouted hoarsely, "bring them to me. How do I know but that
they are enemies?"

"Indeed they are not," she replied, "as you will see in 500 short
seconds."

"Ned, come down!" she called, "bring your friend with you, for I would
have you meet the King!"

Ned turned to the giant, whose big face was twitching with terror.
"He'll recognize me as sure as eggs is eggs!" he groaned.

"What! is that thunder?" exclaimed the King below, mistaking the giant's
moan for a thunderclap, but before his question was answered Ned and his
friend appeared at the head of the stairway.

After shaking hands with Ned in quite a friendly way the wicked King
turned to the giant. "Ha, ha!" he cried, "have I not had the pleasure of
meeting you before, my fine friend?"

The giant said nothing, for what could he say?

"Have I not met you before?" repeated the King, with a fierce gesture.
"Methinks you would look better as a pine tree than a hulking giant,"
and before the words were fairly out of the King's mouth a stately pine
tree was standing in the courtyard, through which the wind of the early
morning made a moaning noise much like the pitiful groan of the poor,
late giant.

"And you, my little cockatoo," continued the wicked King, turning
quickly to Ned, "would look better in a cage!"

And in another minute Ned found himself in a wicker cage, suspended from
the lowest limb of the pine tree.

"And now," cried the wicked King, "where is your third guest?" On
the right is the pear-tree, to which later on we have to affix a
captive pear.

"What I like about the garden," I said to Araminta when we first moved
in, "is the fact that it is in front, so that visitors, instead of
saying in a perfunctory way, 'Have you got a garden, too? How delightful!'
will be forced to murmur, 'How sweet the clover smelt on your lawn as
we came up the drive. What a perfectly entrancing golf-ball.' If I
must go to the trouble and expense of keeping up a private pleasaunce
I want everybody to see the pleasantry of it at once."

"Swank," replied Araminta. She is absurdly early-Georgian in the matter
of repartee.

Last Saturday I determined to mow the lawn.

I put on my oldest suit of clothes with the now fashionable slit-trouser
leg, fastened the green bonnet to the front of the car, and wheeled
it out of the tool garage.

Araminta went out, saying airily that she would be back to tea.

After a little trouble I induced the instrument to graze the left-hand
pasture as far as the hobbled Colonel. Then, feeling that my shoulders
wanted opening a bit, I went indoors and fetched a brassie-spoon.

I suppose I must have been striking with unusual vehemence, but anyway,
in playing a good second to the fourteenth green, I sent the pin flying
out of the ground. The Colonel broke his parole and dashed rapidly to
the topmost boughs of the pear-tree on the right, carrying the
rest of the apparatus with him.

There was nothing to do but to follow him, spoon in hand.

It was soon evident that the pear-tree had been over-looked during
spring-cleaning, for the foliage, though very luxuriant, was in an
extremely soiled condition.

I had just located the deserter when I heard feminine voices of unknown
proprietorship.

It is the habit of quick masterful decisions in important crises
that has given to Englishmen an empire on which the sun never holes
out, and I decided instantly to remain where I was.

If it had been a mashie I might have faced them, but a brassie-spoon out
of a lie like that--no.

The callers came slowly up the path, rang the bell, chattered to the
servant, left cards, and retired. Without much trouble I could have
brained them with the brassie-spoon as they passed beneath me. But
some odd impulse of chivalry restrained me.

It is blunders like these that have wrecked the plans of the greatest
generals.

Just as they opened the gate who should appear but--of course--Araminta?
"Oh, I'm so glad I've caught you!" she cried.

"You _must_ stay and have tea now.

We'll have it in the garden.

My husband's somewhere about.

He said he was going to mow the lawn, but I suppose he was too lazy."

Lazy, indeed! Ha, ha! So like a woman.

Peering angrily with one eye out of my leafy ambush, I tried hard
to attract Araminta's attention, but all in vain.

Chairs were brought out and tea came with some particularly cool-looking
sandwiches; cups were filled; spoons clinked; steadily the afternoon
wore on. Flecks of fleecy white cloud chased each other in the blue-domed
heaven above me.

From far away rose the hum of the mighty city. In the next-door
garden but two I could see a happy family circle partaking of light
sustenance.

I think it was nearly an hour-and-a-half before those infernal women
left.

Araminta conducted them to the gate, said a lingering good-bye, and
wafted them down the road with wavings and smiles. When they were safely
off the premises I slithered down and confronted her, looking
dignified and stern, still holding the ball in one hand and the
wooden club in the other.

Instead of bursting into tears, as I had expected, she went off into a fit
of idiotic giggles. "You--you don't mean to say you've been up
in that tree all tea-time! You are too funny. And you've got a great black
splodge over one eye. Do go and wash."

With an effort I controlled my rage. "In future," I said coldly, "when
I am--er--mowing the lawn, visitors will be served with tea in the
second drawing-room."
"All right, dear," said Araminta; "and in future, when you are mowing
the lawn, you shall have yours taken up into the pear-tree."
Women have no sense of humour.

* * * * *

GIANTS REFRESHED.

[Illustration: Our Leaders. "ENOUGH OF DEEDS! LET'S GET TO WORDS!"]
* * * * *

[Illustration: _Son (lately returned from big game shooting in Africa)._
"There I stood, the ferocious beast facing me, not a yard away--a situation
needing such calmness and courage as in this quiet little suburb,
my dear mother, you would never be called upon to display."

_Parlourmaid._ "If you please, 'M, there's another bison in the
kitchen.
What would you wish done with it?"

_Mother (accustomed to Cockney accent)._ "Put it in Mr. Jack's room,
Beatrice, and take away the one that's chipped

."]
* * * * * 
TO BE OVERHEARD DAILY.

Scene--_A Restaurant._
_First Luncher._ Waiter, bring me the bill, please.
_Waiter._ Yes, Sir.
_Second Luncher._ No, I say, old man, this is mine."So, I see," answered the trout, "but----" At this very moment the Queen
herself, hearing voices at so early an hour outside her window, peeped
out. Catching sight of her the trout called out boldly:

"Listen to me, I beg of you, most gracious Queen. I have brought you the
gold ring from Ned, who sorely needs thy aid!"

[Illustration: "HERE IS THE RING," SAID THE TROUT.]

At this the Queen quickly withdrew her head, and in a short time
emerged from the doorway of her castle.

Hastily running to the water's edge, she leaned over, grasping hold of a
stalk to keep her from falling.

"Here is the ring," said the trout, holding it in his teeth and swimming
as close to the bank as he was able.

The Queen reached out and took it safely from him.

"I will make you king of my fishes, noble Sir Trout," she cried, "for
what you have this day accomplished. Remain here in my lake henceforth,
and now, to the rescue!"

In an incredibly short time she was mounted on her swiftest robin and
with her three ladies in waiting flew away toward the castle, where Ned
and the beautiful princess, her brave brother and the giant were held
prisoners by the magic of the wicked king.

Now, the little bluebird, as she saw her friend, the trout, swim away,
suddenly thought of her former master, the King of the Gnomes, and
decided to seek aid from him. So, whirling around in a circle to get her
bearings, she darted off swiftly through the air toward the cave in the
forest.

She made rapid progress until she reached the thick foliage of the
woods, and here, in her eagerness, she nearly lost her way.

Indeed, in the uncertain light that struggled through the thick boughs,
it was not easy to make out certain familiar landmarks which would guide
her to her destination.

At length, just at dawn, she found herself at the foot of the hill
wherein was the cave of the King of the Gnomes.

Worn out with her arduous journey, she fluttered down to the edge of
the bubbling fountain and drank of its refreshing waters.

Then, picking up a pebble, she dropped it into the little gravelly
basin, hopped painfully over to the great flat stone, and tapped upon it
three times with her beak.

No one replied, but the rock opened in the middle, and there stood the
King of the Gnomes himself.

On seeing the little bluebird, he stretched out a kindly hand for her to
rest upon, and carried her into the inner room.

It was his breakfast hour, for gnomes are early risers. Seating himself
at the table, he ordered that the little bird be served with breakfast
at once, for well he knew that a hungry bird's first wish must be for
food.

The King had scarce given this order before several nimble little men of
the forest placed seeds and grains of wheat and a goblet of golden
fruit juice before the bluebird.

Soon she was sufficiently revived to address the gnomes, and it took her
but a few moments to tell him all.

"Come, let us hasten," he said, as she finished, and, slipping into his
pocket his magic pipe and little pieces of soap, he left the cave and
walked rapidly toward a small clearing.

Leaning over a little pool in the hollow of the grassy earth, he filled
his pipe, rubbed the soap about the rim, and in a moment more blew a
large soap bubble.

Taking the little bluebird in his hand, he opened a small door and
entered the magic balloon. Up and up it went, until it was well above
the tops of the trees.

Then it took a course toward the east, where the rising sun was gilding
the sky with its golden fingers.

Faster and faster it sailed, overtaking in a short time the Fairy Queen
and her three ladies-in-waiting, mounted on their friendly robins.

In the distance could be seen the turrets of the castle, gleaming in the
morning sun like bayonets thrust up from the earth in monster guns.

"Now, little bluebird," said the Gnome, opening the little door and
thrusting her out upon his hand, as the big Soap Bubble hovered above
the castle, "fly down and tell Ned that deliverance is near at hand. So
also inform the beautiful Princess, who, I see, is still sitting at her
window, but asleep!"

Off flew the bluebird on her happy errand.

"Your Majesty," cried the Gnome, addressing the Fairy Queen, as she drew
rein at the doorway of the soap bubble, "I would suggest that you touch
with the Magic Ring only the cage wherein is confined our friend Ned,
instructing him, while still in the form of a cockatoo, to fly up to the
topmost branch of the pine tree. Also for the Princess' brother, while
he is still a gamecock, to do likewise. After I have brought the bubble
close to the window ledge, so that the beautiful Princess may step
easily inside, I will cause it to rise to the treetop, from which
advantageous position Ned and the Princess' brother can step within. But
what to do with the Pine Tree Giant," said the Gnome, scratching his
beard reflectively, "gets me! However, one thing at a time, as my old
grandfather used to say when I was a boy, 'one thing at a time!'"

As the bluebird whispered in the ear of the beautiful Princess, the
Magic Soap Bubble approached the window ledge.

Rubbing her eyes, but making no outcry, although she was very much
startled, she obeyed the bluebird's command to "step softly," and
entered the Bubble. It then ascended till it was on a line with the
topmost branch, where it swayed in the gentle morning breeze, like a
barnyard weather cock, the game rooster on one side and the cockatoo on
the other!

The Fairy Queen touched them with the ring as they hopped into the
bubble, and they regained immediately their natural shape.

The Princess threw her arms around her dear brother and hugged Ned, so
great was her delight.

Ned ran over to his little friend, the Gnome, and thanked him again and
again for his aid, and was about to lean out of the doorway to also
thank the Fairy Queen when the Gnome restrained him.

"Not so fast, Ned, my boy! All is not yet over."

"No, indeed," answered Ned, "we must rescue the giant."

"Aye, there's the rub," replied the Gnome. "How are we ever to get him
in the bubble, either as a tree or as a giant?"

At this point the Fairy Queen joined in the conversation, kissing Ned at
the same time as he attempted to thank her.

"Let me first change him into his natural form," she said. "Then he can
walk across the courtyard and out upon the drawbridge. From there he can
easily step off into the bubble, which your majesty can lower to the
right height above the water of the moat."

"Good!" said the Gnome. "Go and do your part and I will attend to the
bubble."

Just as the bubble cleared it the pine tree became once more the
friendly giant, who immediately strode across the courtyard.

Quickly lowering the drawbridge he hastened out upon it.

The creaking of the chains, however, had aroused the wicked King, who
looked out of his window to see what was the cause of the noise. In
another moment he was rushing toward the gates at the head of the castle
guard.

"Quick!" shouted the Gnome to the giant. "Get in!"

But, alas! The doorway was too small. In vain the giant wiggled and
squirmed. In vain Ned and the princess' brother pulled his arms. His
great shoulders could not be forced through the doorway. Finally, with a
tremendous shove he managed to go half way in, but no further, for at
this point his head was against the opposite side of the bubble.

On came the wicked King and his castle attendants, who, seeing the
predicament of the giant, fitted arrows to their strong bows, preparing
to shoot the hapless fellow.

"Blow the bubble larger!" shouted Ned. "Put the pipe in his mouth and
tell him to blow like thunder."

The Gnome placed the pipestem between the lips of the giant and
commanded him to blow for his life, and before an arrow left a bow the
bubble widened sufficiently to enable the giant to crawl inside.
Slamming the door shut the Gnome cried out exultingly: "We are safe!"

Away sailed the Magic Soap Bubble, with the Fairy Queen and her little
robin perched securely on the top, and her three ladies in waiting
standing close by on their own little feathered steeds.

Back to the beautiful Waterfall Lake, where the Fairy Queen bade Ned
goodby; back to the friendly Gnome's cave in the woods, where he said
farewell to Ned; back to Big Man's Land, where lived the Giant with his
kind old mother; back to the castle where lived the beautiful Princess
and her brother before the wicked King had kidnapped them, and back at
last to Ned's own home, where it left him in the old easy chair by the
window, from which he had started out to visit Gnomeland.

Well, well, little reader, here we are, you and I, at the end of the
book. What shall we do, for we have grown to be such good friends while
you have been reading this story of mine.

Listen, I will tell you another story, it's called "The Iceberg
Express"--it is one of The Little Journeys to Happyland books. So come
with me on the Iceberg Express.

                         Yours for a story,
                                           DAVID CORY.


MODIFYING CAUSES.

       We now come to the causes which are auxiliary and interfering.

          It is natural that we should regard the sun as the first and most
influential of these causes, as being the source of that variation
in the temperature of the globe, which alternately clothes the
colder regions in snow and verdure.

       The heat of the sun undoubtedly causes the ether of the lower
atmosphere to ascend, not by diminution of its specific gravity;
for it has no ponderosity; but precisely by increase of tension,
due to increase of motion.

          This aids the ascensional movement of
          the air, and therefore, when a vortex is in conjunction with the
sun, its action is increased--the greatest effect being produced
when the vortex comes to the meridian a little before the sun.

       This has a tendency to make the period of action to appear dependent
on the phases of the moon, which being the most palpable of all the
moon's variations, has been naturally regarded by mankind as the
true _cause_ of the changes of the weather.

Thus Virgil in his Georgics, speaking of the moon's influence and its
signs:

"Sin ortu in quarto (Namque is certissimus auctor) Pura, nec obtusis
per coelum cornibus ibit; Totus et ille dies, et qui nascentur ab
illo, Exactum ad mensem, pluviâ ventisque carebunt."

          Hence, also, in the present day we hear sailors speak
          of the full and change, or the quartering of
          the moon, in connection with a gale at sea; thus
          showing, at least, their faith in the influence of the phenomenon.

Yet it is actually the case, at certain times, that in about latitude
40° and 41°, the storms appear about a week apart.

          There is some reason, also, to suspect, that there
          is a difference of temperature on opposite sides
          of the sun.

As the synodical rotation is nearly identical with the siderent
period of the moon, this would require about forty-four years to
run its course, so as to bring the phenomena to exact coincidence
again.

          Since these observations were made, it is
          understood that Sig. Secchi has determined that
          the equatorial regions of the sun are hotter
          than his polar regions.

It may be owing to this fact, that we have inferred a necessity for
a change, whose period is a multiple of the sun's synodical rotation,
but it is worthy of examination by those who possess the necessary
conveniences.

          Another period which must influence the character
          of different years, depends on the conjunction of
          the perigee of the lunar orbit with the node.

Taking the mean direct motion of the moon's perigee, and the mean
retrograde motion of the node, we find that it takes six years and
one day nearly from conjunction to conjunction.

          Now, from the principles laid down, it follows,
          that when the perigee of the orbit is due north,
          and the ascending node in Aries, that the vortices of the earth
will attain their greatest north latitude; and when these conditions
are reversed, the vortices will reach their highest limit in the
lowest latitude.

       This will materially affect the temperature of the polar regions.

       

          

       

SERIES

By DAVID CORY

Author of "The Little Jack Rabbit Stories" and "Little Journeys to
Happyland"

       *       *       *       *       *

          =Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated.
          Each Volume Complete in Itself.=

       *       *       *       *       *

To know Puss Junior once is to love him forever. That's the way all the
little people feel about this young, adventurous cat, son of a very
famous father.

          THE ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

          FURTHER ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

          And Beryl didn't turn a hair (she says) but answered, "You silly
boys!

          I'm locked into 'Olga's' new thief-proof wrap and you can't get
anything but my shoes. My maid always locks me in and lets me out,
and she's got the keys and you've left her behind!"PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND OLD MOTHER GOOSE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., IN NEW MOTHER GOOSE LAND

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE GOOD GRAY HORSE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND TOM THUMB

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND ROBINSON CRUSOE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE MAN IN THE MOON

       *       *       *       *       *

          GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS SERIES

By LILLIAN ELIZABETH ROY

       *       *       *       *       *

          Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated.
          It is impossible that Bessel should here mean that this motion was
certainly in the plane of the orbit; for the orbit was then viewed
sideways, and he had no means of ascertaining the fact.

       His meaning must be that it was apparently in the plane of the orbit.

Because of George and Martha Washington Parke, two
young descendants of the famous General Washington, these stories follow
exactly the life of the great American, by means of playing they act the
life of the Washingtons, both in battles and in society.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS

Their thrilling battles and expeditions generally end in "punishment"
lessons read by Mrs. Parke from the "Life of Washington." The culprits
listen intently, for this reading generally gives them new ideas for
further games of Indian warfare and Colonists' battles.


And yet this does not proceed from ignorance, for they are very
ingenious, and some of them navigate their seas in a wonderful
manner and give good account of things, but because they never saw
people dressed or ships like ours.

THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS' TRAVELS

The children wage a fierce battle upon the roof of a hotel in New York
City. Then, visiting the Davis home in Philadelphia, the patriotic
Washingtons vanquish the Hessians on a battle-field in the empty lot
back of the Davis property.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS AT SCHOOL

After the school-house battle the Washingtons discover a band of gypsies
camping near the back road to their homes and incidentally they secure
the stolen horse which the gypsies had taken from the "butter and egg
farmer" of the Parkes.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS' HOLIDAYS

They spend a pleasant summer on two adjoining farms in Vermont. During
the voyage they try to capture a "frigate" but little Jim is caught and
about to be punished by the Captain when his confederates hasten in and
save him.

       *       *       *       *       *

          GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK

[Illustration]

          _"Give me the bag," the Steward said,
             A frown upon his face.
           Sir John Herschel conjectures that
             it may be "no other than the denser part of that medium, which,
as we have reason to believe, resists the motion, of comets,--loaded,
perhaps, with the actual materials of the tails of millions of those
bodies, of which they have been stripped in their successive
perihelion passages, and which may be slowly subsiding into the sun."

If these materials have been stripped, it is due to some force; and
the same force would scarcely permit them to subside into the sun.

          
              "_


[Illustration]

          _When Little Hero met the Goose
             He asked her what to do.
           So, children, read the Wind Wagon
             And learn how it came true._


       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

Page 70, opening quotation mark added ("As they rolled along)

Page 157, "Ed." changed to "Ned" (and taking Ned with him)