Just as we find that the stronger the imagination the less is it
merely imaginary and the more is it in harmony with truth, so we
see the more vigorous our individuality the more does it widen
towards the universal.  For the greatness of a personality is not
in itself but in its content, which is universal, just as the
depth of a lake is judged not by the size of its cavity but by
the depth of its water.

So, if it is a truth that the yearning of our nature is for
reality, and that our personality cannot be happy with a
fantastic universe of its own creation, then it is clearly best
for it that our will can only deal with things by following their
law, and cannot do with them just as it pleases.  This unyielding
sureness of reality sometimes crosses our will, and very often
leads us to disaster, just as the firmness of the earth
invariably hurts the falling child who is learning to walk.
Nevertheless it is the same firmness that hurts him which makes
his walking possible.  Once, while passing under a bridge, the
mast of my boat got stuck in one of its girders.  If only for a
moment the mast would have bent an inch or two, or the bridge
raised its back like a yawning cat, or the river given in, it
would have been all right with me.  But they took no notice of my
helplessness.  That is the very reason why I could make use of
the river, and sail upon it with the help of the mast, and that
is why, when its current was inconvenient, I could rely upon the
bridge.  Things are what they are, and we have to know them if we
would deal with them, and knowledge of them is possible because
our wish is not their law.  This knowledge is a joy to us, for
the knowledge is one of the channels of our relation with the
things outside us; it is making them our own, and thus widening
the limit of our self.

At every step we have to take into account others than ourselves.
For only in death are we alone.  A poet is a true poet when he
can make his personal idea joyful to all men, which he could not
do if he had not a medium common to all his audience.  This
common language has its own law which the poet must discover and
follow, by doing which he becomes true and attains poetical
immortality.

We see then that man's individuality is not his highest truth;
there is that in him which is universal.  If he were made to live
in a world where his own self was the only factor to consider,
then that would be the worst prison imaginable to him, for man's
deepest joy is in growing greater and greater by more and more
union with the all.  This, as we have seen, would be an
impossibility if there were no law common to all.  Only by
discovering the law and following it, do we become great, do we
realise the universal; while, so long as our individual desires
are at conflict with the universal law, we suffer pain and are
futile.

There was a time when we prayed for special concessions, we
expected that the laws of nature should be held in abeyance for
our own convenience.  But now we know better.  We know that law
cannot be set aside, and in this knowledge we have become strong.
For this law is not something apart from us; it is our own.  The
universal power which is manifested in the universal law is one
with our own power.  It will thwart us where we are small, where
we are against the current of things; but it will help us where
we are great, where we are in unison with the all.  Thus, through
the help of science, as we come to know more of the laws of
nature, we gain in power; we tend to attain a universal body.
Our organ of sight, our organ of locomotion, our physical
strength becomes world-wide; steam and electricity become our
nerve and muscle.  Thus we find that, just as throughout our
bodily organisation there is a principle of relation by virtue of
which we can call the entire body our own, and can use it as
such, so all through the universe there is that principle of
uninterrupted relation by virtue of which we can call the whole
world our extended body and use it accordingly.  And in this age
of science it is our endeavour fully to establish our claim to
our world-self.  We know all our poverty and sufferings are owing
to our inability to realise this legitimate claim of ours.
Really, there is no limit to our powers, for we are not outside
the universal power which is the expression of universal law.  We
are on our way to overcome disease and death, to conquer pain and
poverty; for through scientific knowledge we are ever on our way
to realise the universal in its physical aspect.  And as we make
progress we find that pain, disease, and poverty of power are not
absolute, but that is only the want of adjustment of our
individual self to our universal self which gives rise to them.

It is the same with our spiritual life.  When the individual man
in us chafes against the lawful rule of the universal man we
become morally small, and we must suffer.  In such a condition
our successes are our greatest failures, and the very fulfilment
of our desires leaves us poorer.  We hanker after special gains
for ourselves, we want to enjoy privileges which none else can
share with us.  But everything that is absolutely special must
keep up a perpetual warfare with what is general.  In such a
state of civil war man always lives behind barricades, and in any
civilisation which is selfish our homes are not real homes, but
artificial barriers around us.  Yet we complain that we are not
happy, as if there were something inherent in the nature of
things to make us miserable.  The universal spirit is waiting to
crown us with happiness, but our individual spirit would not
accept it.  It is our life of the self that causes conflicts and
complications everywhere, upsets the normal balance of society
and gives rise to miseries of all kinds.  It brings things to
such a pass that to maintain order we have to create artificial
coercions and organised forms of tyranny, and tolerate infernal
institutions in our midst, whereby at every moment humanity is
humiliated.

We have seen that in order to be powerful we have to submit to
the laws of the universal forces, and to realise in practice that
they are our own.  So, in order to be happy, we have to submit
our individual will to the sovereignty of the universal will, and
to feel in truth that it is our own will.  When we reach that
state wherein the adjustment of the finite in us to the infinite
is made perfect, then pain itself becomes a valuable asset.  It
becomes a measuring rod with which to gauge the true value of our
joy.

The most important lesson that man can learn from his life is not
that there _is_ pain in this world, but that it depends upon him
to turn it into good account, that it is possible for him to
transmute it into joy.  The lesson has not been lost altogether
to us, and there is no man living who would willingly be deprived
of his right to suffer pain, for that is his right to be a man.
One day the wife of a poor labourer complained bitterly to me
that her eldest boy was going to be sent away to a rich relative's
house for part of the year.  It was the implied kind intention of
trying to relieve her of her trouble that gave her the shock, for
a mother's trouble is a mother's own by her inalienable right of
love, and she was not going to surrender it to any dictates of
expediency.  Man's freedom is never in being saved troubles, but
it is the freedom to take trouble for his own good, to make the
trouble an element in his joy.  It can be made so only when we
realise that our individual self is not the highest meaning of our
being, that in us we have the world-man who is immortal, who is
not afraid of death or sufferings, and who looks upon pain as only
the other side of joy.  He who has realised this knows that it is
pain which is our true wealth as imperfect beings, and has made us
great and worthy to take our seat with the perfect.  He knows that
we are not beggars; that it is the hard coin which must be paid
for everything valuable in this life, for our power, our wisdom,
our love; that in pain is symbolised the infinite possibility of
perfection, the eternal unfolding of joy; and the man who loses all
pleasure in accepting pain sinks down and down to the lowest depth
of penury and degradation.  It is only when we invoke the aid of
pain for our self-gratification that she becomes evil and takes her
vengeance for the insult done to her by hurling us into misery.
For she is the vestal virgin consecrated to the service of the
immortal perfection, and when she takes her true place before the
altar of the infinite she casts off her dark veil and bares her
face to the beholder as a revelation of supreme joy.


IV


THE PROBLEM OF SELF


At one pole of my being I am one with stocks and stones.  There I
have to acknowledge the rule of universal law.  That is where the
foundation of my existence lies, deep down below.  Its strength
lies in its being held firm in the clasp of comprehensive world,
and in the fullness of its community with all things.

But at the other pole of my being I am separate from all.  There
I have broken through the cordon of equality and stand alone as
an individual.  I am absolutely unique, I am I, I am
incomparable.  The whole weight of the universe cannot crush out
this individuality of mine.  I maintain it in spite of the
tremendous gravitation of all things.  It is small in appearance
but great in reality.  For it holds its own against the forces
that would rob it of its distinction and make it one with the
dust.

This is the superstructure of the self which rises from the
indeterminate depth and darkness of its foundation into the open,
proud of its isolation, proud of having given shape to a single
individual idea of the architect's which has no duplicate in the
whole universe.  If this individuality be demolished, then though
no material be lost, not an atom destroyed, the creative joy
which was crystallised therein is gone.  We are absolutely
bankrupt if we are deprived of this specialty, this
individuality, which is the only thing we can call our own; and
which, if lost, is also a loss to the whole world.  It is most
valuable because it is not universal.  And therefore only through
it can we gain the universe more truly than if we were lying
within its breast unconscious of our distinctiveness.  The
universal is ever seeking its consummation in the unique.  And
the desire we have to keep our uniqueness intact is really the
desire of the universe acting in us.  It is our joy of the
infinite in us that gives us our joy in ourselves.

That this separateness of self is considered by man as his most
precious possession is proved by the sufferings he undergoes and
the sins he commits for its sake.  But the consciousness of
separation has come from the eating of the fruit of knowledge.
It has led man to shame and crime and death; yet it is dearer to
him than any paradise where the self lies, securely slumbering in
perfect innocence in the womb of mother nature.

It is a constant striving and suffering for us to maintain the
separateness of this self of ours.  And in fact it is this
suffering which measures its value.  One side of the value is
sacrifice, which represents how much the cost has been.  The
other side of it is the attainment, which represents how much has
been gained.  If the self meant nothing to us but pain and
sacrifice, it could have no value for us, and on no account would
we willingly undergo such sacrifice.  In such case there could be
no doubt at all that the highest object of humanity would be the
annihilation of self.

