[Footnote 12: The effects of this 'cumulative' power of a dense
atmosphere are further discussed and illustrated in the last chapter of
this book, where I show that the universal fact of steadily diminishing
temperatures at high altitudes is due solely to the diminution of this
cumulative power of our atmosphere, and that from this cause alone the
temperature of Mars must be that which would be found on a lofty plateau
about 18,000 feet higher than the average of the peaks of the Andes!]

_Temperature on Polar Regions of Mars._

There is also a further consideration which I think Mr. Lowell has
altogether omitted to discuss. Whatever may be the _mean_ temperature
of Mars, we must take account of the long nights in its polar and
high-temperate latitudes, lasting nearly twice as long as ours, with the
resulting lowering of temperature by radiation into a constantly clear
sky. Even in Siberia, in Lat. 67-1/2°N. a cold of-88°F. has been
attained; while over a large portion of N. Asia and America above 60°
Lat. the _mean_ January temperature is from-30°F. to-60°F., and the
whole subsoil is permanently frozen from a depth of 6 or 7 feet to
several hundreds. But the winter temperatures, _over the same latitudes_
in Mars, must be very much lower; and it must require a proportionally
larger amount of its feeble sun-heat to raise the surface even to the
freezing-point, and an additional very large amount to melt any
considerable depth of snow. But this identical area, from a little below
60° to the pole, is that occupied by the snow-caps of Mars, and over the
whole of it the winter temperature must be far lower than the
earth-minimum of-88°F. The days are not half long enough to do all that
is necessary. My four men who came for electrical treatment are
getting on wonderfully well, the big one who was paralyzed and who
could not move hand or foot when he came, is now walking without
crutches, and feeds himself.And when the summer
does come with its scanty sun-heat, that heat is not accumulated as it
is by our dense and moisture-laden atmosphere, the marvellous effects of
which we have already shown. Yet with all these adverse conditions, each
assisting the other to produce a climate approximating to that which the
earth would have if it had no atmosphere (but retaining our superiority
over Mars in receiving double the amount of sun-heat), we are asked to
accept a mean temperature for the more distant planet almost exactly the
same as that of mild and equable southern England, and a disappearance
of the vast snowfields of its polar regions as rapid and complete as
what occurs with us! If the moon, even at its equator, has not its
temperature raised above the freezing-point of water, how can the more
_distant_ Mars, with its _oblique_ noon-day sun falling upon the
snow-caps, receive heat enough, first to raise their temperature to 32°
F., and then to melt with marked rapidity the vast frozen plains of its
polar regions?

Mr. Lowell is however so regardless of the ordinary teachings of
meteorological science that he actually accounts for the supposed mild
climate of the polar regions of Mars by the absence of water on its
surface and in its atmosphere. He concludes his fifth chapter with the
following words: "Could our earth but get rid of its oceans, we too
might have temperate regions stretching to the poles." Here he runs
counter to two of the best-established laws of terrestrial climatology--
the wonderful equalising effects of warm ocean-currents which are the
chief agents in diminishing polar cold; the equally striking effects of
warm moist winds derived from these oceans, and the great storehouse of
heat we possess in our vapour-laden atmosphere, its vapour being
primarily derived from these same oceans! But, in Mr. Lowell's opinion,
all our meteorologists are quite mistaken. Our oceans are our great
drawbacks. Only get rid of them and we should enjoy the exquisite
climate of Mars--with its absence of clouds and fog, of rain or rivers,
and its delightful expanses of perennial deserts, varied towards the
poles by a scanty snow-fall in winter, the melting of which might, with
great care, supply us with the necessary moisture to grow wheat and
cabbages for about one-tenth, or more likely one-hundredth, of our
present population. I hope I may be excused for not treating such an
argument seriously. The various considerations now advanced, especially
those which show the enormous cumulative and conservative effect of our
dense and water-laden atmosphere, and the disastrous effect--judging by
the actual condition of the moon--which the loss of it would have upon
our temperature, seem to me quite sufficient to demonstrate important
errors in the data or fallacies in the complex mathematical argument by
which Mr. Lowell has attempted to uphold his views as to the temperature
and consequent climatic conditions of Mars. In concluding this portion
of my discussion of the problem of Mars, I wish to call attention to the
fact that my argument, founded upon a comparison of the physical
conditions of the earth and moon with those of Mars, is dependent upon a
small number of generally admitted scientific facts; while the
conclusions drawn from those facts are simple and direct, requiring no
mathematical knowledge to follow them, or to appreciate their weight and
cogency. I claim for them, therefore, that they are in no degree
speculative, but in their data and methods exclusively scientific. In
the next chapter I will put forward a suggestion as to how the very
curious markings upon the surface of Mars may possibly be interpreted,
so as to be in harmony with the planet's actual physical condition and
its not improbable origin and past history.


CHAPTER VII.


A SUGGESTION AS TO THE 'CANALS' OF MARS.

The special characteristics of the numerous lines which intersect the
whole of the equatorial and temperate regions of Mars are, their
straightness combined with their enormous length. It is this which has
led Mr. Lowell to term them 'non-natural features.' Schiaparelli, in his
earlier drawings, showed them curved and of comparatively great width.
Later, he found them to be straight fine lines when seen under the best
conditions, just as Mr. Lowell has always seen them in the pure
atmosphere of his observatory. Both of these observers were at first
doubtful of their reality, but persistent observation continued at many
successive oppositions compelled acceptance of them as actual features
of the planet's disc. So many other observers have now seen them that
the objection of unreality seems no longer valid.

Mr. Lowell urges, however, that their perfect straightness, their
extreme tenuity, their uniformity throughout their whole length, the
dual character of many of them, their relation to the 'oases' and the
form and position of these round black spots, are all proofs of
artificiality and are suggestive of design. And considering that some of
them are actually as long as from Boston to San Francisco, and
relatively to their globe as long as from London to Bombay, his
objection that "no natural phenomena within our knowledge show such
regularity on such a scale" seems, at first, a mighty one.

It is certainly true that we can point to nothing exactly like them
either on the earth or on the moon, and these are the only two planetary
bodies we are in a position to compare with Mars. Yet even these do, I
think, afford us some hints towards an interpretation of the mysterious
lines. But as our knowledge of the internal structure and past history
even of our earth is still imperfect, that of the moon only conjectural,
and that of Mars a perfect blank, it is not perhaps surprising that the
surface-features of the latter do not correspond with those of either of
the others.

_Mr. Pickering's Suggestion._

The best clue to a natural interpretation of the strange features of the
surface of Mars is that suggested by the American astronomer Mr. W.H.
Pickering in _Popular Astronomy_ (1904). Briefly it is, that both the
'canals' of Mars and the rifts as well as the luminous streaks on the
moon are cracks in the volcanic crust, caused by internal stresses due
to the action of the heated interior. These cracks he considers to be
symmetrically arranged with regard to small 'craterlets' (Mr. Lowell's
'oases') because they have originated from them, just as the white
streaks on the moon radiate from the larger craters as centres. He
further supposes that water and carbon-dioxide issue from the interior
into these fissures, and, in conjunction with sunlight, promote the
growth of vegetation. Owing to the very rare atmosphere, the vapours, he
thinks, would not ascend but would roll down the outsides of the
craterlets and along the borders of the canals, thus irrigating the
immediate vicinity and serving to promote the growth of some form of
vegetation which renders the canals and oases visible.[13]

[Footnote 13: _Nature_, vol. 70, p. 536.]

This opinion is especially important because, next to Mr. Lowell, Mr.
Pickering is perhaps the astronomer who has given most attention to Mars
during the last fifteen years. I saw a lot of hospitals and was rather
favorably impressed with them.
At the Hotel Dieu, they had received seven hundred patients within
twenty-four hours. I think the saddest part was the eye ward, there
were so many who would never see again and some of them so young.He also observed Mars in the
Southern Hemisphere at Arequipa; and he has since made an elaborate
study of the moon by means of a specially constructed telescope of 135
feet focal length, which produced a direct image on photographic plates
nearly 16 inches in diameter.[14]

[Footnote 14: _Nature_, vol. 70, May 5, p.xi, supplement.]

It is clear therefore that Mr. Lowell's views as to the artificial
nature of the 'canals' of Mars are not accepted by an astronomer of
equal knowledge and still wider experience. Yet Professor Pickering's
alternative view is more a suggestion than an explanation, because there
is no attempt to account for the enormous length and perfect
straightness of the lines on Mars, so different from anything that is
found either on our earth or on the moon. There must evidently be some
great peculiarity of structure or of conditions on Mars to account for
these features, and I shall now attempt to point out what this
peculiarity is and how it may have arisen.

_The Meteoritic Hypothesis._

During the last quarter of a century a considerable change has come over
the opinions of astronomers as regards the probable origin of the Solar
System. The large amount of knowledge of the stellar universe, and
especially of nebulae, of comets and of meteor-streams which we now
possess, together with many other phenomena, such as the constitution of
Saturn's rings, the great number and extent of the minor planets, and
generally of the vast amount of matter in the form of meteor-rings and
meteoric dust in and around our system, have all pointed to a different
origin for the planets and their satellites than that formulated by
Laplace as the Nebular hypothesis.

