  "Being occupied with the prisoners and all the details of a forward
  movement, besides looking to the supplies which are to follow from
  Vera Cruz, I have time to add no more, intending to be at Jalapa
  early to-morrow. We shall not probably meet with serious opposition
  this side of Perote, certainly not unless delayed by the want of the
  means of transportation.

  "I have the honor to remain, sir, with high respect, your most
  obedient servant,

                                                      "WINFIELD SCOTT.

  "P.S.--I invite attention to the accompanying letters to President
  Santa Anna, taken in his carriage yesterday; also to his
  proclamation issued on hearing that we had captured Vera Cruz, etc.,
  in which he says: 'If the enemy advance one step more, the national
  independence will be buried in the abyss of the past.' We have taken
  that step.

                                                                 "W.S.

  "I make a second postscript, to say that there is some hope, I am
  happy to learn, that General Shields may survive his wounds. One of
  the principal motives for paroling the prisoners of war is to
  diminish the resistance of other garrisons in our march.


                  "HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, JALAPA, _April 23, 1847_.

  "SIR: In forwarding the reports of commanders which detail
  the operations of their several corps against the Mexican lines at
  Cerro Gordo, I shall present, in continuation of my former report,
  but an outline of the affair; and while adopting heartily their
  commendations of the ardor and efficiency of individuals, I shall
  mention by name only those who figure prominently, or, from
  position, could not be included in those subreports. The field
  sketch herewith indicates the position of the two armies. The
  _tierra caliente_, or low level, terminates at Plan del Rio, the
  site of the American camp, from which the road ascends immediately
  in a long circle among the lofty hills, whose commanding points had
  all been fortified and garrisoned by the enemy. His right,
  intrenched, rested on a precipice overhanging an impassable ravine
  that forms the bed of the stream; and his intrenchments extended
  continuously to the road, in which was placed a formidable battery.
  On the other side the lofty and difficult heights of Cerro Gordo
  commanded the approaches in all directions. The main body of the
  Mexican army was encamped on level ground, with a battery of five
  pieces, half a mile in rear of that height toward Jalapa. Resolving,
  if possible, to turn the enemy's left and attack in rear while
  menacing or engaging his front, I caused daily reconnoissances to be
  pushed, with the view of finding a route for a force to debouch on
  the Jalapa road and cut off retreat. The reconnoissance, begun by
  Lieutenant Beauregard, was continued by Captain Lee, engineers, and
  a road made along difficult slopes and over chasms out of the
  enemy's view; though reached by his fire when discovered, until,
  arriving at the Mexican lines, further reconnoissance became
  impossible without action. The desired point of debouchure, the
  Jalapa road, was not therefore reached, though believed to be within
  easy distance; and to gain that point it now became necessary to
  carry the heights of Cerro Gordo. The disposition in my plan of
  battle--General Orders No. 111, heretofore inclosed--were
  accordingly made. Twiggs's division, re-enforced by Shields's
  brigade of volunteers, was thrown into position on the 17th, and was
  of necessity drawn into action in taking up the ground for its
  bivouac, and the opposing height for our heavy battery. It will be
  seen that many of our officers and men were killed or wounded in
  this sharp combat, handsomely commenced by a company of the Seventh
  Infantry under Brevet First-Lieutenant Gardner, who is highly
  praised by all his commanders for signal services. Colonel Harvey,
  coming up with the Rifle Regiment and First Artillery (also parts of
  his brigade), brushed away the enemy and occupied the height, on
  which, in the night, was placed a battery of one twenty-four pounder
  and two twenty-four-pound howitzers, under the supervision of
  Captain Lee, engineers, and Lieutenant Hagner, ordnance. These guns
  opened next morning, and were served with effect by Captain Steptoe
  and Lieutenant Brown, Third Artillery, Lieutenant Hagner (ordnance),
  and Lieutenant Seymore, First Artillery. The same night, with
  extreme toil and difficulty, under the superintendence of Lieutenant
  Tower, engineer, and Lieutenant Laidley, ordnance, an eight-inch
  howitzer was put in position across the river and opposite to the
  enemy's right battery. A detachment of four companies under Major
  Burnham, New York volunteers, performed this creditable service,
  which enabled Lieutenant Ripley, Second Artillery, in charge of the
  piece, to open a timely fire in that quarter.

  "Early on the 18th the columns moved to the general attack, and our
  success was speedy and decisive. Pillow's brigade assaulting the
  right of the intrenchments, although compelled to retire, had the
  effect I have heretofore stated. Twiggs's division, storming the
  strong and vital point of Cerro Gordo, pierced the center, gained
  command of all the intrenchments, and cut them off from support. As
  our infantry (Colonel Riley's brigade) pushed on against the main
  body of the enemy, the guns of their own fort were rapidly turned to
  play on that force (under the immediate command of General Santa
  Anna), who fled in confusion. Shields's brigade, bravely assaulting
  the left, carried the rear battery (five guns) on the Jalapa road
  and aided materially in completing the rout of the enemy. The part
  taken by the remainder of our forces held in reserve to support and
  pursue has already been noticed. The moment the fate of the day was
  decided, the cavalry and Taylor's and Wall's field batteries were
  pushed on toward Jalapa in advance of the pursuing columns of
  infantry. Twiggs's division and the brigade of Shields (now under
  Colonel Baker) and Major-General Patterson were sent to take command
  of them. In the hot pursuit many Mexicans were captured or slain
  before our men and horses were exhausted by the heat and distance.

  "The rout proved to have been complete, the retreating army, except
  a small body of cavalry, being dispersed and utterly disorganized.
  The immediate consequences have been our possession of this
  important city, the abandonment of the works and artillery at La
  Hoya, the next formidable pass between Vera Cruz and the capital,
  and the prompt occupation by Worth's division of the fortress of
  Perote (second only to San Juan de Ulloa), with its extensive
  armament of sixty-six guns and mortars and its large supply of
  material. To General Worth's report, annexed, I refer for details.

  "I have heretofore endeavored to do justice to the skill and courage
  with which the heights of Cerro Gordo were attacked, naming the
  regiments most distinguished, and their-commanders, under the lead
  of Colonel Harney. Lieutenant G.W. Smith led the engineer company as
  part of the storming force, and is noticed with distinction. The
  reports of this assault make favorable mention of many in which I
  can well concur, having, witnessed the daring advance and perfect
  steadiness of the whole. Besides those already named, Lieutenant
  Brooks, Third Infantry, Lieutenant Macdonald, Second Dragoons,
  Lieutenant Vandorn, Seventh Infantry (all acting staff officers),
  Captain Magruder, First Artillery, and Lieutenant Gardner, Seventh
  Infantry, seem to have won special praise. Colonel Riley's brigade
  and Talcott's rocket and howitzer battery were engaged in and about
  the heights and bore an active part. The brigade so gallantly led by
  General Shields, and after his fall by Colonel Baker, deserves high
  commendation for its fine behavior and success. Colonels Foreman,
  Burnett, and Major Harris commanded the regiments. Lieutenant
  Hammond, Third Artillery, and Lieutenant Davis, Illinois volunteers,
  constituted the brigade staff. These operations, hid from my view by
  intervening hills, were not fully known when my first report was
  hastily written. Brigadier-General Twiggs, who was in immediate
  command of all advanced forces, has earned high credit by his
  judgment, skill, and energy. The conduct of Colonels Campbell,
  Haskell, and Wynkoop, commanding the regiments of Pillow's brigade,
  is reported in terms of strong approbation by Major-General
  Patterson. I recommend for a commission Quartermaster-Sergeant
  Henry, of the Seventh Infantry (already known to the army for
  intrepidity on former occasions), who hauled down the national
  standard of the Mexican fort. In expressing my indebtedness for able
  assistance--to Lieutenant-Colonel Hitchcock, acting inspector
  general; to Majors Smith and Turnbull, and respective chiefs of
  engineers and topographical engineers; to their assistant
  lieutenants, Lieutenants Mason, Beauregard, Stevens, Tower, G.W.
  Smith, McClellan, engineers, and Lieutenants Derby and Hardcastle,
  topographical engineers; to Captain Allen, chief quartermaster, and
  Lieutenant Blair, chief commissary, and to Lieutenants Hagner and
  Laidley, ordnance, all actively employed--I am compelled to make
  special mention of the services of Captain R.E. Lee, engineers. This
  officer greatly distinguished himself at the siege of Vera Cruz, was
  again indefatigable during these operations, in reconnoissance as
  daring as laborious, and of the utmost value. Nor was he less
  conspicuous in planting batteries and in conducting columns to their
  stations under the heavy fire of the enemy. My personal
  staff--Lieutenants Scott, Williams, and Lay, and Major Van Buren,
  who volunteered for the occasion--gave me zealous and efficient
  assistance. Our whole force present in action and in reserve was
  eight thousand five hundred. The enemy is estimated at twelve
  thousand or more. About three thousand prisoners, four or five
  thousand stands of arms, and forty-three pieces of artillery are
  taken. By the accompanying return I regret to find our loss more
  severe than at first supposed, amounting in the two days to
  thirty-three officers and three hundred and ninety-eight men--in
  all, four hundred and thirty-one, of whom sixty-three were killed.
  The enemy's loss is computed to be from one thousand to one thousand
  two hundred. I am happy in communicating strong hopes of the
  recovery of the gallant General Shields, who is so much improved as
  to have been brought to this place.

  "Appended to this report are the following papers:

  "(A) General return by name of killed and wounded.

  "(B) Copies of report of Lieutenant-Colonel Hitchcock, acting
  inspector general (of prisoners taken), and accompanying papers.

  "(C) Report of Brigadier-General Twiggs, and subreports.

  "(D) Report of Major-General Patterson and report of brigade
  commanders.

  "(E) Copy of report of Brigadier-General Worth announcing the
  occupation by his division of the castle and town of Perote without
  opposition, with an inventory of ordnance there found.

  "I have the honor to remain, sir, with high respect, your most
  obedient servant,

                                                     "WINFIELD SCOTT."

A Mexican historian gives the following account of the close of the
battle: "General Santa Anna, accompanied by some of his adjutants, was
passing along the road to the left of the battery, when the enemy's
column, now out of the woods, appeared on his line of retreat and
fired upon him, forcing him back. The carriage in which he had left
Jalapa was riddled with shot, the mules killed and taken by the enemy,
as well as a wagon containing sixteen thousand dollars received the
day before for the pay of the soldiers. Every tie of command and
obedience now being broken among our troops, safety alone being the
object, and all being involved in a frightful whirl, they rushed
desperately to the narrow pass of the defile that descended to the
Plan del Rio, where the general in chief had preceded, with the chiefs
and officers accompanying him. Horrid indeed was the descent by that
narrow and rocky path, where thousands rushed, disputing the passage,
with desperation, and leaving a track of blood upon the road. All
classes being confounded, military distinction and respect were lost;
and badges of rank became marks of sarcasm that were only meted out
according to their grade and humiliation. The enemy, now masters of
our camp, turned their guns upon the fugitives, thus augmenting the
terror of the multitude that crowded through the defile and pressed
forward every instant by a new impulse, which increased the confusion
and disgrace of the ill-fated day."

General Scott reports the strength of his army at Cerro Gordo at eight
thousand five hundred, the killed and wounded four hundred and
thirty-one, of which thirty-three were officers and three hundred and
ninety-eight enlisted men. His estimate of the Mexican force was
twelve thousand. The prisoners captured were about three thousand, and
the killed and wounded between one thousand and twelve hundred.
Forty-three cannon and three thousand five hundred small arms were
captured. On the morning of the 22d the army moved to and occupied the
town and castle of Perote without resistance.

General Santa Anna now retired to Orizaba, where he was met by many
distinguished citizens. He addressed a letter to the _ad interim_
President, General Arroya, as follows:

                                           "ORIZABA, _April 22, 1847_.

  "MY ESTEEMED FRIEND: The dispatch which I have forwarded to
  the Minister of War will already have informed you of the events
  which occurred on the 18th inst. The enemy made an extraordinary
  effort to force the pass, and, exasperated by the repulse he had
  experienced the day before, and because he knew his ruin was
  inevitable unless he succeeded, attacked me with his entire army,
  which was not less than twelve thousand men. He put everything on
  the hazard of the die, and the cast was favorable to him. I do not
  regard the cause of the nation as hopeless, if it will defend its
  honor and independence as circumstances may require. I presume you
  have taken all proper measures for the public safety, and first of
  all for that of the capital. I shall be able to aid it very soon if
  it will defend itself. At present I have with me five hundred men
  and four guns, and there is no doubt but I shall collect in a few
  days a force equal to that I rallied at Cerro Gordo. I only require
  that you send me some money through the medium of bills of exchange,
  as I find it impossible to raise a dollar. We must, my friend, not
  give up ourselves as lost, and, before God, you shall see that I
  will make no treaty with the enemy which will dishonor us or put us
  in worse condition. Write to me when convenient, and reckon always
  on the poor services of your most affectionate friend, who wishes
  you every happiness.                         A.L. DE SANTA ANNA."

The prisoners were all paroled, and the sick and wounded sent to
Jalapa, where they were comfortably provided for.

General Scott was impatient at the delay of the Government in sending
him re-enforcements. He feared that his communications with Vera Cruz
might be cut off. The time of enlistment of the twelve months'
volunteers would soon expire, and he desired to discharge them in time
to leave the coast before the prevalence of the yellow fever.

He received information on April 27th that some one to two thousand
recruits of the ten regiments recently provided for by Congress had
been ordered to Brazos, and that every effort would be made to
re-enforce General Taylor. The Secretary of War had ordered troops
originally designed for General Scott to the relief of General Taylor,
without notice to General Scott.

On May 4, 1847, he issued an order to the volunteer troops whose term
of enlistment was about to expire, complimenting them for their
services, but announcing his intention to discharge them. He then
addressed the Secretary of War, saying: "To part with so large and so
respectable a portion of the army in the middle of a country which,
though broken in its power, is not yet disposed to sue for peace; to
provide for the return home of seven regiments from this interior
position at a time when I find it difficult to provide transportation
and supplies for the operating forces which remain, and all this
without any prospect of succor or re-enforcements in perhaps the next
seven months, beyond some three hundred army recruits, presents
novelties utterly unknown to an invading army before. With the
addition of ten or twelve thousand new levies in April and May, asked
for, and until very recently expected, or even with the addition of
two or three thousand new troops destined for this army, but suddenly,
by the orders of the War Department, directed to the Rio Grande
frontier, I might, notwithstanding the unavoidable discharge of the
old volunteers--seven regiments and two independent companies--advance
with confidence upon the enemy's capital. I shall nevertheless
advance, but whether beyond Puebla will depend upon intervening
information and reflection."

The army, having received supplies of medicines, ammunition, clothing,
salt, etc., made preparations to move. Colonel Childs was appointed
governor of Jalapa, and a sufficient garrison left with him. General
Twiggs was ordered to march to Perote. General Worth had occupied
Perote on April 22d. The army then occupied Puebla, where during their
prolonged stay the troops were daily drilled, but were given
permission to visit the ancient city of Cholula and the adjacent
country. This city in the time of Cortez had a population of one
hundred and fifty thousand, but was now a hamlet containing a small
population and the ruins of its ancient glory. General Scott relates
that while in this region, "coming up with a brigade marching at ease,
all intoxicated with the fine air and scenery, he was, as usual,
received with hearty and protracted cheers. The group of officers who
surrounded him differed widely in the objects of their admiration,
some preferring this or that snow-capped mountain, others the city,
and several the pyramid of Cholula that was now opening upon the view.
An appeal from all was made to the general in chief. He promptly and
emphatically replied, 'I differ from you all. My greatest delight is
in this fine body of troops, without whom we can never sleep in the
halls of the Montezumas, or in our own homes.'"

The first re-enforcements to arrive were eight hundred men, under
Lieutenant-Colonel James Simmons McIntosh, escorting a train. They
were delayed by an attack of the enemy near Jalapa, but, being joined
by Brigadier-General George Cadwallader with a portion of his brigade
and a field battery, the enemy was soon driven. Major-General Gideon
J. Pillow arrived next with a thousand men, and on August 6th
Brigadier-General Franklin Pierce joined with two thousand five
hundred men.

General Scott felt compelled, on account of his reduced numbers, to
order the garrison, under Colonel Childs at Jalapa, to join him. His
force now was (including late re-enforcements) about fourteen thousand
men, including two thousand five hundred sick in hospitals, and six
hundred convalescents too feeble for duty. These convalescents and the
same number of effective troops were left as a garrison under Colonel
Childs, who was appointed commandant of the city of Puebla. This
necessitated the almost total abandonment of the protection of his
lines to his base at Vera Cruz, and communications to his Government.
As Scott expressed it, "we had to throw away the scabbard and to
advance with the naked blade in hand."


CHAPTER X.

Movement toward the City of Mexico--The Duke of Wellington's
comments--Movements of Santa Anna--A commission meets General Worth to
treat for terms--Worth enters Puebla--Civil administration of the city
not interfered with--Scott arrives at Puebla--Scott's address to the
Mexicans after the battle of Cerro Gordo--Contreras--Reconnoissance of
the _pedregal_--Defeat of the Mexicans at Contreras--Battle of
Churubusco--Arrival of Nicholas P. Trist, commissioner--General Scott
meets a deputation proposing an armistice--He addresses a
communication to the head of the Mexican Government--Appointment of a
commission to meet Mr. Trist--Major Lally--Meeting of Mr. Trist with
the Mexican commissioners--Failure to agree--Armistice violated by the
Mexicans and notice from General Scott--Santa Anna's insolent
note--The latter calls a meeting of his principal officers--Molino del
Rey--Chapultepecec--Losses on both sides.


The army began its movement from Puebla toward the City of Mexico on
August 6, 1847. Twiggs's division was in the advance, General William
Selby Harney's cavalry leading and the siege train bringing up the
rear. The other three divisions followed successively on the 8th, 9th,
and 10th. No division was at any time more than seven or eight miles
from support. It was expected that the army of Santa Anna would be met
at Rio Frio, and hence General Scott's great caution in his movement
to keep his divisions in supporting distance.

The Duke of Wellington was so interested in this march of the army
from Vera Cruz to the Mexican capital that he caused its movements to
be marked on a map daily, as information was received. Admiring its
triumphs up to the basin of Mexico, he now said: "Scott is lost. He
has been carried away by successes. He can't take the city, and he
can't fall back upon his base."

General Santa Anna, finding himself without money and with but a small
following of troops at Orizaba, marched by way of Aculcingo and
Amasoque to Puebla. In the meantime he was using all efforts to gather
re-enforcements for his army. There was but one day's interval between
the troops of General Worth and the Mexican brigades of Leonard Perez
and the cavalry under General Alcorta, the whole of which was
commanded by General Santa Anna when he passed Amasoque. Finding that
he could not successfully defend Puebla, the Mexican general withdrew
to San Martin and Amasoque. Soon afterward he moved on the road toward
the City of Mexico.

Two or three miles from Puebla a commission met General Worth to treat
for terms. A halt of a few hours was made, when the march was resumed,
and the American forces without opposition marched into the Grand
Plaza between the palace of the Governor and the cathedral.

A Mexican historian thus describes the first appearance and occupation
of Puebla by the American troops: "The singular appearance of some of
the soldiers, their trains, their artillery, their large horses, all
attracted the curiosity of the multitude, and at the corners and
squares an immense crowd surrounded the new conquerors. The
latter--extremely fatigued, confiding in the mutual guarantees
stipulated by the Ayuntamientimo and General Worth, or perhaps
despising a people who easily permitted the occupation of their
territory--stacked arms in the plaza while waiting for quarters, while
some wandered into neighboring streets to drink pulque and embrace the
leperos, with whom they seemed old acquaintances. [The leperos were
the vagabonds of the city and country.] There is no doubt that more
than ten thousand persons occupied the plazas and corners. One cry,
one effort, the spirit of one determined man would have sufficed; and
if once this multitude had pressed in on the enemy, they would have
inevitably perished. Nothing was done. General Worth took quarters in
the Governor's palace, east of the Grand Plaza, and upon its flagstaff
hoisted the Stars and Stripes."

General Worth took possession of Puebla on May 15th, and, acting under
orders of General Scott, he issued orders which gave assurance to the
inhabitants that they would not be disturbed either in person or
property, and that they could continue without molestation their
ordinary business. The markets were kept open, and no officer or
soldier was permitted to take anything without paying the regular
market price.

The civil administration of the city was not interfered with. The
police of the city was continued under the regulations of the city
government. The churches, of which there were a large number, were
opened, and continued their usual functions, and the attendance was
largely augmented by the American officers and men. In fact, the city,
except for the presence of the United States troops, was in all other
respects governed and conducted as before its occupation.

General Scott left Jalapa on May 23d for Puebla. He arrived there on
the 28th, and was met and escorted into the city by a number of
officers. Along the streets of the city through which he passed the
balconies were filled with Mexican ladies and the avenues crowded with
men. The populace cheered him heartily and escorted him to the palace.
The soldiers, volunteers and regulars, gave him the heartiest welcome,
showing that he had the respect and confidence of the army, and the
demonstrations of the Mexicans evidenced that they regarded him as a
humane and Christian conqueror.

In this connection it is well to produce the address of General Scott
to the Mexican people after the battle of Cerro Gordo:


[Illustration: Route From
VERA CRUZ TO MEXICO]


  "MEXICANS! The late events of the war and the measures
  adopted in consequence by our Government make it my duty to address
  you, in order to lay before you truths of which you are ignorant,
  because they have been criminally concealed from you. I do not ask
  you to believe me simply on my word--though he who has not been
  found false has a claim to be believed--but to judge for yourselves
  of these truths from facts within the view and scrutiny of you all.
  Whatever may have been the origin of this war, which the United
  States was forced to undertake by insurmountable causes, we regard
  it as an evil. War is ever such to both belligerents, and the reason
  and justice of the case, if not known on both sides, are in dispute
  and claimed by each. You have proof of this truth as well as we, for
  in Mexico, as in the United States, there have existed and do exist
  two opposite parties, one desiring peace and the other war.
  Governments have, however, sacred duties to perform from which they
  can not swerve; and these duties frequently impose, from national
  considerations, a silence and reserve that displeases at all times
  the majority of those who, from views purely personal or private,
  are formed in opposition, to which Governments can pay little
  attention, expecting the nation to repose in them the confidence due
  to a magistracy of its own selection--considerations of high policy
  and of continental American interests precipitated even in spite of
  circumspection of the Cabinet at Washington. This Cabinet, ardently
  desiring to terminate all differences with Mexico, spared no effort
  compatible with honor and dignity. It cherished the most flattering
  hopes of attaining this end by frank explanations and reasonings
  addressed to the judgment and prudence of the virtuous and patriotic
  government of General Herrera. An unexpected misfortune dispelled
  these hopes and closed every avenue of an honorable adjustment. Your
  new Government disregarded your national interests, as well as those
  of continental America, and yielded, moreover, to foreign influences
  the most opposed to these interests, the most fatal to the future of
  Mexican liberty and of that republican system which the United
  States holds it a duty to preserve and protect. Duty, honor, and
  dignity placed us under the necessity of not losing a season of
  which the monarchical party was fast taking advantage. As not a
  moment was to be lost, we acted with a promptness and decision
  suited to the urgency of the case, in order to avoid a complication
  of interests which might render our relations more difficult and
  involved. Again, in the course of civil war, the Government of
  General Paredes was overthrown. We could not but look upon this as a
  fortunate event, believing that any other administration
  representing Mexico would be less deluded, more patriotic, and more
  prudent, looking to the common good, weighing probabilities,
  strength, resources, and, above all, the general opinion as to the
  inevitable results of a national war. We were deceived, and perhaps
  you Mexicans were also deceived, in judging of the real intentions
  of General Santa Anna when you recalled and when your Government
  permitted him to return. Under this state of things the Mexican
  nation has seen the results lamented by all, and by us most
  sincerely, for we appreciate as is due the valor and noble decision
  of those unfortunate men who go to battle ill-conducted, worse cared
  for, and almost always enforced by violence, deceit, or perfidy. We
  are witnesses, and we shall not be taxed with partiality as a party
  interested when we lament with surprise that the heroic behavior of
  the garrison at Vera Cruz in its valiant defense has been aspersed
  by the general who has just been routed and put to shameful flight
  at Buena Vista by a force far inferior to his own. The same general
  rewarded the insurgents of the capital, promoters of civil war, and
  heaped outrage upon those who had just acquired for themselves
  singular distinction by a resistance beyond expectation and of
  admirable decision. Finally, the bloody events of Cerro Gordo have
  plainly shown the Mexican nation what it may reasonably expect if it
  is no longer blind to its real situation--a situation to which it
  has been brought by some of its generals whom it has most
  distinguished and in whom it has most confidence. The hardest heart
  would have been moved to grief in contemplating any battlefield in
  Mexico a moment after the last struggle. Those generals whom the
  nation has paid without service rendered for so many years, have, in
  the day of need, with some honorable exceptions, but served to
  injure her by their bad example or unskillfulness. The dead and
  wounded on those battlefields received no marks of military
  distinction, sharing alike the sad fate which has been the same from
  Palo Alto to Cerro Gordo; the dead remained unburied and the wounded
  abandoned to the clemency and charity of the victor. Soldiers who go
  to battle knowing they have such reward to look for deserve to be
  classed with the most heroic, for they are stimulated by no hope of
  glory, nor remembrance, nor a sigh, nor even a grave! Again,
  contemplate, honorable Mexicans, the lot of peaceful and industrious
  citizens in all classes of your country. The possessions of the
  Church menaced and presented as an allurement to revolution and
  anarchy; the fortunes of rich proprietors pointed out for plunder of
  armed ruffians; and merchants and the mechanic, the husbandman and
  the manufacturer, burdened with contributions, excises, monopolies,
  duties on consumption, surrounded by officers and collectors of
  these odious internal customs; the man of letters and the
  legislator, the freeman of knowledge who dares to speak, persecuted
  without trial by some faction or by the very rulers who abuse their
  power; and criminals unpunished are set at liberty, as were those of
  Perote. What, then, Mexicans, is the liberty of which you boast? I
  do not believe that Mexicans at the present day want the courage to
  confess errors which do not dishonor them, or to adopt a system of
  true liberty--one of peace and union with their brethren and
  neighbors of the North. Neither can I believe the Mexicans ignorant
  of the infamy of the calumnies put forth by the press in order to
  excite hostility against us. No, public spirit can not be created or
  animated by falsehood. We have not profaned your temples, nor abused
  your women, nor seized your property, as they could have you
  believe. We say it with pride, and we confirm it by an appeal to
  your bishops and the curates of Tampico, Tuzpan, Matamoros,
  Monterey, Vera Cruz, and Jalapa; to all clergy, civil authorities,
  and inhabitants of all places we have occupied. We adore the same
  God, and a large portion of our army, as well as of the people of
  the United States, are Catholics, like yourselves. We punish crime
  wherever we find it, and reward merit and virtue. The army of the
  United States respects, and will ever respect, private property of
  every class, and the property of the Mexican Church. Woe to him who
  does not where we are! Mexicans, the past is beyond remedy, but the
  future may yet be controlled. I have repeatedly declared to you that
  the Government and the people of the United States desire peace,
  desire your sincere friendship. Abandon, then, state prejudices;
  cease to be the sport of private ambition, and conduct yourselves
  like a great American nation. Abandon at once these old colonial
  habits, and learn to be truly free, truly republican. You may then
  soon attain prosperity and happiness, of which you possess all the
  elements; _but remember that you are Americans_, and that your
  happiness is not to come from Europe. I desire, in conclusion, to
  say to you with equal frankness that, were it necessary, an army of
  one hundred thousand Americans would soon be among you, and that the
  United States, if forced to terminate by arms their differences with
  you, would not do it in an uncertain or precarious, or, still less,
  in a dishonorable manner. It would be an insult to the intelligent
  people of their country to doubt their knowledge of your power. The
  system of forming guerrilla parties to annoy us will, I assure you,
  produce only evil to this country and none to our army, which knows
  how to protect itself and how to proceed against such cut-throats;
  and if, so far from calming resentments and passion, you try to
  irritate, you will but force upon us the hard necessity of
  retaliation. In that event, you can not blame us for the
  consequences which will fall upon yourselves. I shall march with
  this army upon Puebla and Mexico. I do not conceal this from you.
  From those capitals I may again address you. We desire peace,
  friendship, and union; it is for you to choose whether you prefer
  continued hostilities. In either case, be assured, I will keep my
  word.                                            WINFIELD SCOTT."

