Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron and spake,
saying, "Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. Also in time past, when
Saul was king over us, thou wast he that leddest out and broughtest in
Israel: and the Lord said to thee, 'Thou shalt feed my people Israel,
and thou shalt be a captain over Israel.'"

So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and king David
made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord: and they anointed
David king over Israel.

David was thirty years old when he began to reign and he reigned over
Israel and Judah thirty and three years, and he had already reigned
over Judah seven years and six months.

But when the Philistines heard that they bad anointed David king over
Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David; and David heard of
it, and went down to the hold.

The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

And David enquired of the Lord, saying, "Shall I go up to the
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into mine hand?" And the Lord said
unto David, "Go up: for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into
thine hand."

And David smote the Philistines and said, "The Lord hath broken forth
upon mine enemies, as the breach of waters."

It has been a Temple of Concord;--may we hope that it will be in
truth a Temple of Justice!

--For virtuoso concerts, we shall have what the managers at New York
send us.

We shall of course have Vieuxtemps and Thalberg, if no more.

And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going
in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself;
for then shall the Lord go out before thee, to smite the host of the
Philistines."

And David did so, as the Lord had commanded him; and smote the
Philistines from Geba until they came to Gazer.

After David had conquered the Philistines he called unto him a servant
of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and said, "Is there not yet
any of the house of Saul, that I may shew the kindness of God unto
him?"

And Ziba said unto the king, "Jonathan hath yet a son who is lame on
his feet."

The king said unto him, "Where is he?".

And Ziba said unto the king, "Behold he is in the house of Machir."

Now the name of this son of Jonathan was Mephibosheth, and when he was
come unto David he fell on his face, and did reverence.

And David said, "Mephibosheth!"

And he answered, "Behold thy servant."

And David said unto him, "Fear not: for I will surely shew thee
kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the
land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table
continually."

And he bowed himself, and said, "What is thy servant, that thou
shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am?"

Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him, "I
have given unto thy master's son all that pertained to Saul and to all
his house. Thou therefore, and thy sons, and thy servants, shall till
the land for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits, that thy master's
son may have food to eat: but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall eat
bread alway at my table."

Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. Then said Ziba unto the
king, "According to all that my lord the king hath commanded his
servant, so shall thy servant do."

"As for Mephibosheth," said the king, "he shall eat at my table, as one
of the king's sons."

And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha.

And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto
Mephibosheth.

So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem: for he did eat continually at the
king's table; and was lame on both his feet.


II

Now Absalom, the favorite son of David, was wroth at his brother Amnon
who had dealt wickedly with his sister. And at a sheep-shearing where
Absalom had invited Amnon and all his other brothers, Absalom had
commanded his servants, saying, "Mark ye now when Amnon's heart is
merry with wine, and when I say unto you, 'Smite Amnon;' then kill him;
fear not: have not I commanded you? Be courageous, and be valiant."

And the servants of Absalom did unto Amnon as Absalom had commanded,
and David mourned for his son every day.

So Absalom fled and went to Geshur and was there three years. And the
soul of David longed to go forth unto Absalom, for he loved him dearly.
And the king sent for Joab, who had counselled the king to forgive, and
said unto him, "Go ye and bring the young man Absalom again to me."

So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.

And the king said, "Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see
my face."

So Absalom returned to his own house, and saw not the king's face.

But in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for
his beauty: from the sole of his feet even to the crown of his head
there was no blemish in him. And when he polled his head, he weighed
the hair of his head at two hundred shekels after the king's weight.

So Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem, and saw not the king's
face. Therefore Absalom sent for Joab, to have sent him to the king;
but he would not come to him: and when he sent for him again the second
time, he would not come.

Therefore he said unto his servants, "See, Joab's field is near mine,
and he hath barley there; go and set it on fire." And Absalom's
servants set the field on fire.

Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom unto his house, and said unto him,
"Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire?"

And Absalom answered Joab, "Behold, I sent unto thee, bidding thee come
hither, that I might send thee to the king, to say, 'Wherefore am I
come from Geshur? it had been good for me to have been there still: now
therefore let me see the king's face: and if there be any iniquity in
me, let him kill me.'"

So Joab came to the king, and told him: and when he called for Absalom,
he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before
the king: and the king kissed Absalom.

And it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared him chariots and
horses, and fifty men to run before him.

 And Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate: and
it was so, that when any man that had a controversy came to the king
for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and said, "Of what city art
thou?" And he said, "Thy servant is of one of the tribes of Israel."

And Absalom said unto him, "See, thy matters are good and right; but
there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee."

[Illustration: THE MAN RUNNETH ALONE]

Absalom said moreover, "Oh that I were made judge of the land, that
every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would
do him justice."

And it was so, that when any man came nigh to him to do him obeisance,
he put forth his hand, and took him, and kissed him.

And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for
judgment: so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.

And there came a messenger to David, saying, "The hearts of the men of
Israel are after Absalom."

And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem,
"Arise, and let us flee; for we shall not else escape from Absalom:
make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring evil upon
us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword."

And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a
place that was far off.

And David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, and wept as he went
up, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot.

And all the people that was with him covered every man his head, and
they went up, weeping as they went up.

Then David arose, and all the people that were with him, and they
passed over Jordan: by the morning light there lacked not one of them
that was not gone over Jordan.

Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over Jordan, he and all
the men of Israel with him. So Israel and Absalom pitched their tents
in the land of Gilead.

And it came to pass, when David had come unto Mahanaim that the people
brought beds, and basins, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley,
and flour, and parched corn, and beans, and lentiles, and parched
pulse, and honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of kine, for David,
and for the people that were with him, to eat: for they said, "The
people are hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the wilderness."

And David numbered the people that were with him, and set captains of
thousands and captains of hundreds over them.

And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab,
and a third part under the hand of Abishai, and a third part under the
hand of Ittai. And the king said unto the people, "I will surely go
forth with you myself also."

But the people answered, "Thou shalt not go forth: for if we flee away,
they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care
for us: but now thou art worth ten thousand of us: therefore now it is
better that thou succour us out of the city." And the king said unto
them, "What seemeth you best I will do." And the king stood by the gate
side, and all the people came out by hundreds and by thousands.

And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, "Deal gently
for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom." And all the people
heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom. So
the people went out into the field against Israel; and the battle was
in the wood of Ephraim; where the people of Israel were slain before
the servants of David, and there was there a great slaughter that day
of twenty thousand men. For the battle was there scattered over the
face of all the country; and the wood devoured more people that day
than the sword devoured.

And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a mule,
and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head
caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and the
earth; and the mule that was under him went away. And a certain man saw
it, and told Joab, and said, "Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak."

And Joab said unto the man that told him, "And, behold, thou sawest
him, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? and I would
have given thee ten shekels of silver, and a girdle."

And the man said unto Joab, "Though I should receive a thousand shekels
of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth mine hand against the
king's son: for in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishai and
Ittai, saying, 'Beware that none touch the young man Absalom.'

"Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life: for
there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest have
set thyself against me."

Then said Joab, "I may not tarry thus with thee." And he took three
darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom, while
he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.

And ten young men that bare Joab's armour compassed about and smote
Absalom, and slew him.

And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after
Israel: for Joab held back the people.

And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the wood, and
laid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel fled every
one to his tent.

And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the
roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and looked,
and beheld a man running alone. And the watchman cried, and told the
king. And the king said, "If he be alone, there is tidings in his
mouth." And he came apace, and drew near, and said, "Tidings, my lord
the king: for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose
up against thee."

[Illustration: IS THE YOUNG MAN, ABSALOM, SAFE?]

And the king said unto Cushi, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" And
Cushi answered, "The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise
against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is."

And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate,
and wept: and as he went, thus he said, "O my son Absalom, my son, my
son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!"

And it was told Joab, "Behold the king weepeth and mourneth for
Absalom." And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all
the people: for the people heard say that day how the king was grieved
for his son. And the people gat them by stealth that day into the city,
as people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.

But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, "O
my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And David spake unto the Lord the words of this song in the day that
the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies:

"The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; the God of my
rock; in him will I trust: he is my shield and the horn of my
salvation, my high tower, and my refuge, my saviour; thou savest me
from violence.

"I will call on the Lord, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be
saved from mine enemies.

"When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men made
me afraid; the sorrows of hell compassed me about; the snares of death
prevented me; in my distress I called upon the Lord and cried to my
God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple, and my cry did enter
into his ears.

"Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven moved and
shook, because he was wroth. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils,
and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

"He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under his
feet.

"And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: and he was seen upon the wings
of the wind.

"And he made darkness pavilions round about him, dark waters, and thick
clouds of the skies.

"Through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled.

"The LORD thundered from heaven, and the most High uttered his voice.

"And he sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and discomfited
them.

"And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the world
were discovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the blast of the
breath of his nostrils.

"He sent from above, he took me; he drew me out of many waters; he
delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that hated me: for
they were too strong for me.

"I was also upright before him, and have kept myself from mine
iniquity.

"Therefore the LORD hath recompensed me according to my righteousness;
according to my cleanness in his eye sight.

"With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful, and with the
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright.

"With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the forward thou
wilt shew thyself unsavoury.

"And the afflicted people thou wilt save: but thine eyes are upon the
haughty, that thou mayest bring them down."

Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die; and he charged
Solomon his son, saying:

"I go the way of all the earth: be thou strong therefore, and shew
thyself a man; and keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his
ways, to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his judgments,
and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, that thou
mayest prosper in all that thou doest, whithersoever thou turnest
thyself: that the Lord may continue his word which he spake concerning
me, saying, 'If thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me
in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not
fail thee a man on the throne of Israel.'"

So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David.

Then sat Solomon upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom
was established.

       *       *       *       *       *

David was, as you have learned from the account of him you have just
been reading, a poet and a singer and one of his beautiful songs is to
be found near the close of this story of his life. Most certainly,
friend, if we are to be perpetually flooded with paper, a high
tariff is needed;--your theory is at least consistent, however it
may have worked in practice. But a high protective tariff is an
impossibility, because it can be attained only by favor of the
Federal legislature; and, as we all know, at the door of that
legislature stands the inexorable shape of the Slave Power, which
consults no interest but its own in the management of government,
and which will never make a concession to the manufacturers or the
merchants of the North, unless it be to purchase some new act of
baseness, or bind them in some new chains of servility.

--But have you inquired whether that flood of paper is necessary?
Then, too, the words and the manner
of treating subjects were different from those employed in prose, just
as they are in our own poetry.

David in this song is praising God for making him victorious over his
enemies. Let us look for a moment at the way in which he expresses
himself, and see whether we can find out just where the beauty of this
hymn of praise lies. In the first paragraph he applies to the Lord
various titles--"my rock," "my shield," "my high tower." He means to
say by this that God is strong enough to protect him and defend him,
but is not his way of saying it more forceful?

A few lines down we have the words, "The waves of death compassed me."
Does this not give you a vivid idea of the helplessness of David and
his hopelessness? What he means is, "I was in constant danger of losing
my life," but he puts this fact into impressive words that leave a
distinct picture in our minds.

Still further on we read, "There went up a smoke out of his nostrils,
and fire out of his mouth devoured." This strikes us as a very daring
way of describing God, but it is also a forceful way. We get just the
idea of the irresistibleness of God which David meant we should.

These are but a few of the striking descriptions of which David makes
use in this song. You will find others in almost every paragraph.


CHEVY-CHASE

_By_ RICHARD SHEALE

NOTE.--It was said in the old legend that Percy, Earl of
Northumberland, declared that he would hunt for three days on Scottish
lands without asking leave from Earl Douglas, who either owned the soil
or had control of it under the king. This ballad dates back probably to
the time of James I, and is merely a modernized version of the old
stories.


  God prosper long our noble king,
    Our lives and safeties all;
  A woful hunting once there did
    In Chevy-Chase befall.

  To drive the deer with hound and horn
    Earl Percy took his way;
  The child may rue that is unborn
    The hunting of that day.

  The stout Earl of Northumberland
    A vow to God did make,
  His pleasure in the Scottish woods
    Three summer days to take,--

  The chiefest harts in Chevy-Chase
    To kill and bear away.
  These tidings to Earl Douglas came,
    In Scotland where he lay;

  Who sent Earl Percy present word
    He would prevent his sport.
  The English earl, not fearing that,
    Did to the woods resort,

  With fifteen hundred bowmen bold,
    All chosen men of might,
  Who knew full well in time of need
    To aim their shafts aright.

  The gallant greyhounds swiftly ran
    To chase the fallow deer;
  On Monday they began to hunt
    When daylight did appear;

  And long before high noon they had
    A hundred fat bucks slain;
  Then, having dined, the drovers went
    To rouse the deer again.

  The bowmen mustered on the hills,
    Well able to endure;
  And all their rear, with special care,
    That day was guarded sure.

  The hounds ran swiftly through the woods
    The nimble deer to take,
  That with their cries the hills and dales
    An echo shrill did make.

  Lord Percy to the quarry went,
    To view the slaughtered deer;
  Quoth he, "Earl Douglas promisèd
    This day to meet me here;

  "But if I thought he would not come,
    No longer would I stay;"
  With that a brave young gentleman
    Thus to the earl did say:--

  "Lo, yonder doth Earl Douglas come,--
    His men in armor bright;
  Full twenty hundred Scottish spears
    All marching in our sight;

  "All men of pleasant Teviotdale,
    Fast by the river Tweed;"
  "Then cease your sports," Earl Percy said,
    "And take your bows with speed;

  "And now with me, my countrymen,
    Your courage forth advance;
  For never was there champion yet,
    In Scotland or in France,

  "That ever did on horseback come,
    But if my hap it were,
  I durst encounter man for man,
    With him to break a spear."

  Earl Douglas on his milk-white steed,
    Most like a baron bold,
  Rode foremost of his company,
    Whose armor shone like gold.

  "Show me," said he, "whose men you be,
    That hunt so boldly here,
  That, without my consent, do chase
    And kill my fallow deer."

  The first man that did answer make,
    Was noble Percy he--
  Who said, "We list not to declare,
    Nor show whose men we be:

  "Yet will we spend our dearest blood
    Thy chiefest harts to slay."
  Then Douglas swore a solemn oath,
    And thus in rage did say:

  "Ere thus I will out-bravèd be,
    One of us two shall die;
  I know thee well, an earl thou art,--
    Lord Percy, so am I.

  "But trust me, Percy, pity it were,
    And great offence, to kill
  Any of these our guiltless men,
    For they have done no ill.

  "Let you and me the battle try,
    And set our men aside."
  "Accursed be he," Earl Percy said,
    "By whom this is denied."

  Then stepped a gallant squire forth,
    Witherington was his name,
  Who said, "I would not have it told
    To Henry, our king, for shame,

  "That e'er my captain fought on foot,
    And I stood looking on.
  You two be earls," said Witherington,
    "And I a squire alone;

  I'll do the best that do I may,
    While I have power to stand;
  While I have power to wield my sword
    I'll fight with heart and hand."

  Our English archers bent their bows,--
    Their hearts were good and true;
  At the first flight of arrows sent,
    Full fourscore Scots they slew,

  Yet stays Earl Douglas on the bent,
    As chieftain stout and good;
  As valiant captain, all unmoved,
    The shock he firmly stood.

  His host he parted had in three,
    As leader ware and tried;
  And soon his spearmen on their foes
    Bore down on every side.

  Throughout the English archery
    They dealt full many a wound;
  But still our valiant Englishmen
    All firmly kept their ground.

  And throwing straight their bows away,
    They grasped their swords so bright;
  And now sharp blows, a heavy shower,
    On shields and helmets light.

  They closed full fast on every side,--
    No slackness there was found;
  And many a gallant gentleman
    Lay gasping on the ground.

  In truth, it was a grief to see
    How each one chose his spear,
  And how the blood out of their breasts
    Did gush like water clear.

  At last these two stout earls did meet;
    Like captains of great might,
  Like lions wode, they laid on lode,
    And made a cruel fight.

  They fought until they both did sweat,
    With swords of tempered steel,
  Until the blood, like drops of rain,
    They trickling down did feel.

  "Yield thee, Lord Percy," Douglas said,
    "In faith I will thee bring
  Where thou shalt high advancèd be
    By James, our Scottish king.

  "Thy ransom I will freely give,
    And this report of thee,--
  Thou art the most courageous knight
    That ever I did see."

  "No, Douglas," saith Earl Percy then,
    "Thy proffer I do scorn;
  I will not yield to any Scot
    That ever yet was born."

  With that there came an arrow keen
    Out of an English bow,
  Which struck Earl Douglas to the heart,--
    A deep and deadly blow;

  Who never spake more words than these:
    "Fight on, my merry men all;
  For why, my life is at an end;
    Lord Percy sees my fall."

  Then leaving life, Earl Percy took
    The dead man by the hand;
  And said, "Earl Douglas, for thy life
    Would I had lost my land.

  "In truth, my very heart doth bleed
    With sorrow for thy sake;
  For sure a more redoubted knight
    Mischance did never take."

  A knight amongst the Scots there was
    Who saw Earl Douglas die,
  Who straight in wrath did vow revenge
    Upon the Earl Percy.

  Sir Hugh Montgomery was he called,
    Who, with a spear full bright,
  Well mounted on a gallant steed,
    Ran fiercely through the fight;

  And past the English archers all,
    Without a dread or fear;
  And through Earl Percy's body then
    He thrust his hateful spear;

  With such vehement force and might
    He did his body gore,
  The staff ran through the other side
    A large cloth-yard and more.

  So thus did both these nobles die.
    Whose courage none could stain.
  An English archer then perceived
    The noble earl was slain.

  He had a bow bent in his hand,
    Made of a trusty tree;
  An arrow of a cloth-yard long
    To the hard head haled he.

  Against Sir Hugh Montgomery
    So right the shaft he set,
  The gray goose wing that was thereon
    In his heart's blood was wet.

  This fight did last from break of day
    Till setting of the sun;
  For when they rung the evening-bell
    The battle scarce was done.

  With stout Earl Percy there was slain
    Sir John of Egerton,
  Sir Robert Ratcliff, and Sir John,
    Sir James, that bold baron.

  And with Sir George and stout Sir James,
    Both knights of good account,
  Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slain,
    Whose prowess did surmount.

  For Witherington my heart is woe
    That ever he slain should be,
  For when his legs were hewn in two,
    He knelt and fought on his knee.

  And with Earl Douglas there was slain
    Sir Hugh Mountgomery,
  Sir Charles Murray, that from the field
    One foot would never flee.

  Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff, too,--
    His sister's son was he;
  Sir David Lamb, so well esteemed,
    But saved he could not be.

  And the Lord Maxwell in like case
    Did with Earl Douglas die:
  Of twenty hundred Scottish spears,
    Scarce fifty-five did fly.

  Of fifteen hundred Englishmen,
    Went home but fifty-three;
  The rest in Chevy-Chase were slain,
    Under the greenwood tree.

  Next day did many widows come,
    Their husbands to bewail;
  They washed their wounds in brinish tears,
    But all would not prevail.

  Their bodies, bathed in purple blood,
    They bore with them away;
  They kissed them dead a thousand times,
    Ere they were clad in clay.

  The news was brought to Edinburgh,
    Where Scotland's king did reign,
  That brave Earl Douglas suddenly
    Was with an arrow slain:

  "O heavy news," King James did say;
    "Scotland can witness be
  I have not any captain more
    Of such account as he."

  Like tidings to King Henry came
    Within as short a space,
  That Percy of Northumberland
    Was slain in Chevy-Chase:

  "Now God be with him," said our King,
    "Since 'twill no better be;
  I trust I have within my realm
    Five hundred as good as he:

  "Yet shall not Scots or Scotland say
    But I will vengeance take;
  I'll be revengèd on them all
    For brave Earl Percy's sake."

  This vow full well the King performed
    After at Humbledown;
  In one day fifty knights were slain
    With lords of high renown;

  And of the rest, of small account,
    Did many hundreds die:
  Thus endeth the hunting of Chevy-Chase,
    Made by the Earl Percy.

  God save the king, and bless this land,
    With plenty, joy and peace;
  And grant, henceforth, that foul debate
   'Twixt noblemen may cease.


THE ATTACK ON THE CASTLE
[Footnote: _The Attack on the Castle_ is from Scott's novel of
_Ivanhoe_.]

_By_ SIR WALTER SCOTT


A moment of peril is often also a moment of open-hearted kindness and
affection. Surely, we can afford the stoppage of some banks and factories,
quite as well as we can that of music. Let us look around, then,
upon its prospects for the winter.

While we write (the first week in October) the musical season, in
what we take to be the most music-loving of our cities, Boston, has
not commenced, or shaped itself into much distinctness of plan.
The season is late; hard times may make it later; yet shall "the
winter of our discontent be glorious summer" ere long.As she felt his pulse, and inquired after his health,
there was a softness in her touch and in her accents, implying a kinder
interest than she would herself have been pleased to have voluntarily
expressed. Her voice faltered and her hand trembled, and it was only
the cold question of Ivanhoe, "Is it you, gentle maiden?" which
recalled her to herself, and reminded her the sensations which she felt
were not and could not be mutual. A sigh escaped, but it was scarce
audible; and the questions which she asked the knight concerning his
state of health were put in the tone of calm friendship. Ivanhoe
answered her hastily that he was, in point of health, as well, and
better, than he could have expected. "Thanks," he said, "dear Rebecca,
to thy helpful skill."

"He calls me _dear Rebecca_," said the maiden to herself, "but it is in
the cold and careless tone which ill suits the word. His war-horse, his
hunting hound, are dearer to him than the despised Jewess!"

"My mind, gentle maiden," continued Ivanhoe, "is more disturbed by
anxiety than my body with pain. From the speeches of these men who were
my warders just now, I learn that I am a prisoner, and, if I judge
aright of the loud hoarse voice which even now despatched them hence on
some military duty, I am in the castle of Front-de-Boeuf. If so, how
will this end, or how can I protect Rowena and my father?"

"He names not the Jew or Jewess," said Rebecca, internally; "yet what
is our portion in him, and how justly am I punished by Heaven for
letting my thoughts dwell upon him!" She hastened after this brief
self-accusation to give Ivanhoe what information she could; but it
amounted only to this, that the Templar Bois-Guilbert and the Baron
Front-de-Boeuf were commanders within the castle; that it was
beleaguered from without, but by whom she knew not.

The noise within the castle, occasioned by the defensive preparations,
which had been considerable for some time, now increased into tenfold
bustle and clamor. The heavy yet hasty step of the men-at-arms
traversed the battlements, or resounded on the narrow and winding
passages and stairs which led to the various bartizans [Footnote: A
bartizan is a sort of small overhanging balcony, built for defense or
for lookout.] and points of defense. The voices of the knights were
heard, animating their followers, or directing means of defense, while
their commands were often drowned in the clashing of armor, or the
clamorous shouts of those whom they addressed. Tremendous as these
sounds were, and yet more terrible from the awful event which they
presaged, there was a sublimity mixed with them which Rebecca's high-
toned mind could feel even in that moment of terror. Her eye kindled,
although the blood fled from her cheeks; and there was a strong mixture
of fear, and of a thrilling sense of the sublime, as she repeated,
half-whispering to herself, half-speaking to her companion, the sacred
text--"The quiver rattleth--the glittering spear and the shield--the
noise of the captains and the shouting!"

[Illustration: IVANHOE WAS IMPATIENT AT HIS INACTIVITY.]

But Ivanhoe was like the war-horse of that sublime passage, glowing
with impatience at his inactivity, and with his ardent desire to mingle
in the affray of which these sounds were the introduction. "If I could
but drag myself," he said, "to yonder window, that I might see how this
brave game is like to go! If I had but bow to shoot a shaft, or battle-
axe to strike were it but a single blow for our deliverance! It is
vain--it is vain--I am alike nerveless and weaponless."

"Fret not thyself, noble knight," answered Rebecca, "the sounds have
ceased of a sudden; it may be they join not battle."

"Thou knowest naught of it," said Ivanhoe, impatiently; "this dead
pause only shows that the men are at their posts on the walls and
expecting an instant attack; what we have heard is but the distant
muttering of the storm; it will burst anon in all its fury. Could I but
reach yonder window!"

"Thou wilt but injure thyself by the attempt, noble knight," replied
his attendant. Observing his solicitude, she added, "I myself will
stand at the lattice, and describe as I can what passes without."

"You must not--you shall not!" exclaimed Ivanhoe. "Each lattice, each
aperture, will soon be a mark for the archers; some random shaft--"

"It shall be welcome!" murmured Rebecca, as with firm pace she ascended
two or three steps, which led to the window of which they spoke.

"Rebecca--dear Rebecca!" exclaimed Ivanhoe, "this is no maiden's
pastime; do not expose thyself to wounds and death, and render me
forever miserable for having given the occasion; at least, cover
thyself with yonder ancient buckler, and show as little of your person
at the lattice as may be."

Following with wonderful promptitude the directions of Ivanhoe, and
availing herself of the protection of the large ancient shield, which
she placed against the lower part of the window, Rebecca, with
tolerable security to herself, could witness part of what was passing
without the castle, and report to Ivanhoe the preparations which the
assailants were making for the storm. Indeed, the situation which she
thus obtained was peculiarly favorable for this purpose, because being
placed on an angle of the main building, Rebecca could not only see
what passed beyond the precincts of the castle, but also commanded a
view of the outwork likely to be the first object of the meditated
assault. It was an exterior fortification of no great height or
strength, intended to protect the postern-gate, through which Cedric
had been recently dismissed by Front-de-Boeuf. The castle moat divided
this species of barbican [Footnote: A barbican is a tower or outwork
built to defend the entry to a castle or fortification.] from the rest
of the fortress, so that, in case of its being taken, it was easy to
cut off the communication with the main building, by withdrawing the
temporary bridge. In the outwork was a sallyport [Footnote: A sallyport
is an underground passage from the outer to the inner fortifications.]
corresponding to the postern of the castle, and the whole was
surrounded by a strong palisade. Rebecca could observe, from the number
of men placed for the defence of this post, that the besieged
entertained apprehensions for its safety; and from the mustering of the
assailants in a direction nearly opposite to the outwork, it seemed no
less plain that it had been selected as a vulnerable point of attack.

