This eBook was produced by David Schwan <davidsch@earthlink.net>.


History of the Donner Party

A Tragedy of the Sierra


By C. F. McGlashan

Truckee, Cal.


To Mrs. Elizabeth A. Keiser,
One of the Pioneer Mothers of California,


This Book is Respectfully Dedicated by the Author.


Preface.


The delirium preceding death by starvation, is full of strange
phantasies. Visions of plenty, of comfort, of elegance, flit ever before
the fast-dimming eyes. The final twilight of death is a brief
semi-consciousness in which the dying one frequently repeats his weird
dreams. Half rising from his snowy couch, pointing upward, one of the
death-stricken at Donner Lake may have said, with tremulous voice:
"Look! there, just above us, is a beautiful house. It is of costliest
walnut, inlaid with laurel and ebony, and is resplendent with burnished
silver. Magnificent in all its apartments, it is furnished like a
palace. It is rich with costly cushions, elegant tapestries, dazzling
mirrors; its floor is covered with Oriental carpets, its ceiling with
artistic frescoings; downy cushions invite the weary to repose. It is
filled with people who are chatting, laughing, and singing, joyous and
care-free. There is an abundance of warmth, and rare viands, and
sparkling wines. Suspended among the storm-clouds, it is flying along
the face of the precipice at a marvelous speed. Flying? no! it has
wheels and is gliding along on a smooth, steel pathway. It is sheltered
from the wind and snow by large beams and huge posts, which are bolted
to the cliffs with heavy, iron rods. The avalanches, with their burden
of earth and rocks and crushed pines, sweep harmlessly above this
beautiful house and its happy inmates. It is drawn by neither oxen nor
horses, but by a fiery, hot-breathed monster, with iron limbs and thews
of, steel. The mountain trembles beneath his tread, and the rocks for
miles re-echo his roar."

If such a vision was related, it but indicates, prophetically, the
progress of a few years. California's history is replete with tragic,
startling events. These events are the landmarks by which its
advancement is traced. One of the most mournful of these is recorded in
this work - a work intended as a contribution, not to the literature,
but to the history of the State. More thrilling than romance, more
terrible than fiction, the sufferings of the Donner Party form a bold
contrast to the joys of pleasure-seekers who to-day look down upon the
lake from the windows of silver palace cars.

The scenes of horror and despair which transpired in the snowy Sierra in
the winter of 1846-7, need no exaggeration, no embellishment. From all
the works heretofore published, from over one thousand letters received
from the survivors, from ample manuscript, and from personal interviews
with the most important actors in the tragedy, the facts have been
carefully compiled. Neither time, pains, nor expense have been spared in
ferreting out the truth. New and fragmentary versions of the sad story
have appeared almost every year since the unfortunate occurrence. To
forever supplant these distorted and fabulous reports - which have
usually been sensational new articles - the survivors have deemed it
wise to contribute the truth. The truth is sufficiently terrible.

Where conflicting accounts of particular scenes or occurrences have been
contributed, every effort has been made to render them harmonious and
reconcilable. With justice, with impartiality, and with strict adherence
to what appeared truthful and reliable, the book has been written. It is
an honest effort - toward the truth, and as such is given to the world.

C. F. McGlashan.

Truckee, Cal., June 30, 1879.


Contents.


Chapter I.

Donner Lake
A Famous Tourist Resort
Building the Central Pacific
California's Skating Park
The Pioneers
The Organization of the Donner Party
Ho! for California!
A Mammoth Train
The Dangers by the Way
False Accounts of the Sufferings Endured
Complete Roll of the Company
Impostors Claiming to Belong to the Party
Killed by the Pawnees
An Alarmed Camp
Resin Indians
A Mother's Death

Chapter II.

Mrs. Donner's Letters
Life on the Plains
An Interesting Sketch
The Outfit Required
The Platte River
Botanizing
Five Hundred and Eighteen Wagons for California
Burning "Buffalo Chips"
The Fourth of July at Fort Laramie
Indian Discipline
Sioux Attempt to Purchase Mary Graves
George Donner Elected Captain
Letter of Stanton
Dissension
One Company Split up into Five
The Fatal Hastings Cut-off
Lowering Wagons over a Precipice
The First View of Great Salt Lake

Chapter III.

A Grave of Salt
Members of the Mystic Tie
Twenty Wells
A Desolate Alkaline Waste
Abandoned on the Desert
A Night of Horror
A Steer Maddened by Thirst
The Mirage
Yoking an Ox and a Cow
"Cacheing" Goods
The Emigrants' Silent Logic
A Cry for Relief
Two Heroic Volunteers
A Perilous journey
Letters to Captain Sutter

Chapter IV.

Gravelly Ford
The Character of James F. Reed
Causes which Led to the Reed-Snyder Tragedy
John Snyder's Popularity
The Fatal Altercation
Conflicting Statements of Survivors
Snyder's Death
A Brave Girl
A Primitive Trial
A Court of Final Resort
Verdict of Banishment
A Sad Separation
George and Jacob Donner Ahead at the Time
Finding Letters in Split Sticks
Danger of Starvation

Chapter V.

Great Hardships
The Sink of the Humboldt
Indians Stealing Cattle
An Entire Company Compelled to Walk
Abandoned to Die
Wolfinger Murdered
Rhinehart's Confession
Arrival of C. T. Stanton
A Temporary Relief
A Fatal Accident
The Sierra Nevada Mountains
Imprisoned in Snow
Struggles for Freedom
A Hopeless Situation
Digging for Cattle in Snow
How the Breen Cabin Happened to be Built
A Thrilling Sketch of a Solitary Winter
Putting up Shelters
The Donners Have Nothing but Tents
Fishing for Trout.

Chapter VI.

Endeavors to Cross the Mountains
Discouraging Failures
Eddy Kills a Bear
Making Snow-Shoes
Who composed the "Forlorn Hope"
Mary A. Graves
An Irishman
A Generous Act
Six Days' Rations
Mary Graves' Account
Snow-Blind
C. T. Stanton's Death
"I Am Coming Soon"
Sketch of Stanton's Early Life
His Charity and Self-sacrifice
The Diamond Breastpin
Stanton's Last Poem

Chapter VII.

A Wife's Devotion
The Smoky Gorge
Caught in a Storm
Casting Lots to See Who Should Die
A Hidden River
The Delirium of Starvation
Franklin Ward Graves
His Dying Advice
A Frontiersman's Plan
The Camp of Death
A Dread Resort
A Sister's Agony
The Indians Refuse to Eat
Lewis and Salvador Flee for Their Lives
Killing a Deer
Tracks Marked by Blood
Nine Days without Food

Chapter VIII.

Starvation at Donner Lake
Preparing Rawhide for Food
Eating the Firerug
Shoveling Snow off the Beds
Playing they were Tea-cups of Custard
A Starving Baby
Pleading with Silent Eloquence
Patrick Breen's Diary
Jacob Donner's Death
A Child's Vow
A Christmas Dinner
Lost on the Summits
A Stump Twenty-two Feet High
Seven Nursing Babes at Donner Lake
A Devout Father
A Dying Boy
Sorrow and Suffering at the Cabins

Chapter IX.

The Last Resort
Two Reports of a Gun
Only Temporary Relief
Weary Traveling
The Snow Bridges
Human Tracks!
An Indian Rancherie
Acorn Bread
Starving Five Times!
Carried Six Miles
Bravery of John Rhodes
A Thirty-two Days' Journey
Organizing the First Relief Party
Alcalde Sinclair's Address
Capt. R. P. Tucker's Companions.

Chapter X.

A Lost Age in California History
The Change Wrought by the Discovery of Gold
The Start from Johnson's Ranch
A Bucking Horse
A Night Ride
Lost in the Mountains
A Terrible Night
A Flooded Camp
Crossing a Mountain Torrent
Mule Springs
A Crazy Companion
Howlings of Gray Wolves
A Deer Rendezvous
A Midnight Thief
Frightening Indians
The Diary of the First Relief Party

Chapter XI.

Hardships of Reed and Herron
Generosity of Captain Sutter
Attempts to Cross the Mountains with Provisions
Curtis' Dog
Compelled to Turn Back
Hostilities with Mexico
Memorial to Gov. Stockton
Yerba Buena's Generosity
Johnson's Liberality
Pitiful Scenes at Donner Lake
Noble Mothers
Dying rather than Eat Human Flesh
A Mother's Prayer
Tears of Joy
Eating the Shoestrings

Chapter XII.

A Wife's Devotion
Tamsen Donner's Early Life
The Early Settlers of Sangamon County
An Incident in School
Teaching and Knitting
School Discipline
Capt. George Donner's Appearance
Parting Scenes at Alder Creek
Starting over the Mountains
A Baby's Death
A Mason's Vow
Crossing the Snow Barrier
More Precious than Gold or Diamonds
Elitha Donner's Kindness

Chapter XIII.

Death of Ada Keseberg
Denton Discovering Gold
A Poem Composed while Dying
The Caches of Provisions Robbed by Fishers
The Sequel to the Reed-Snyder Tragedy
Death from Overeating
The Agony of Frozen Feet
An Interrupted Prayer
Stanton, after Death, Guides the Relief Party!
The Second Relief Party Arrives
A Solitary Indian
Patty Reed and Her Father
Starving Children Lying in Bed
Mrs. Graves' Money still Buried at Donner Lake

Chapter XIV.

Leaving Three Men in the Mountains
The Emigrants Quite Helpless
Bear Tracks in the Snow
The Clumps of Tamarack
Wounding a Bear
Blood Stains upon the Snow
A Weary Chase
A Momentous Day
Stone and Cady Leave the Sufferers
A Mother Offering Five Hundred Dollars
Mrs. Donner Parting from her Children
"God will Take Care of You"
Buried in Snow without Food or Fire
Pines Uprooted by the Storm
A Grave Cut in the Snow
The Cub's Cave
Firing at Random
A Desperate Undertaking
Preparing for a Hand-to-hand Battle
Precipitated into the Cave
Seizing the Bear
Mrs. Elizabeth Donner's Death
Clarke and Baptiste Attempt to Escape
A Death more Cruel than Starvation

Chapter XV.

A Mountain Storm
Provisions Exhausted
Battling the Storm Fiends
Black Despair
Icy Coldness
A Picture of Desolation
The Sleep of Death
A Piteous Farewell
Falling into the Fire-well
Isaac Donner's Death
Living upon Snow Water
Excruciating Pain
A Vision of Angels
"Patty is Dying!"
The Thumb of a Mitten
A Child's Treasures
The "Dolly" of the Donner Party

Chapter XVI.

A Mother at Starved Camp
Repeating the Litany
Hoping in Despair
Wasting Away
The Precious Lump of Sugar
"James is Dying"
Restoring a Life
Relentless Hunger
The Silent Night Vigils
The Sight of Earth
Descending the Snow Pit
The Flesh of the Dead
Refusing to Eat
The Morning Star
The Mercy of God
The Mutilated Forms
The Dizziness of Delirium
Faith Rewarded
"There is Mrs. Breen."

Chapter XVII.

The Rescue
California Aroused
A Yerba Buena Newspaper
Tidings of Woe
A Cry of Distress
Noble Generosity
Subscriptions for the Donner Party
The First and Second Reliefs
Organization of the Third
The Dilemma
Voting to Abandon a Family
The Fatal Ayes
John Stark's Bravery
Carrying the Starved Children
A Plea for the Relief Party

Chapter XVIII.

Arrival of the Third Relief
The Living and the Dead
Captain George Donner Dying
Mrs. Murphy's Words
Foster and Eddy at the Lake
Tamsen Donner and Her Children
A Fearful Struggle
The Husband's Wishes
Walking Fourteen Miles
Wifely Devotion
Choosing Death
The Night Journey
An Unparalleled Ordeal
An Honored Name
Three Little Waifs
"And Our Parents are Dead."

Chapter XIX.

False Ideas about the Donner Party
Accused of Six Murders
Interviews with Lewis Keseberg
His Statement
An Educated German
A Predestined Fate
Keseberg's Lameness
Slanderous Reports
Covered with Snow
"Loathsome, Insipid, and Disgusting"
Longings toward Suicide
Tamsen Donner's Death
Going to Get the Treasure
Suspended over a Hidden Stream
"Where is Donner's Money?"
Extorting a Confession

Chapter XX.

Dates of the Rescues
Arrival of the Fourth Relief
A Scene Beggaring Description
The Wealth of the Donners
An Appeal to the Highest Court
A Dreadful Shock
Saved from a Grizzly Bear
A Trial for Slander
Keseberg Vindicated
Two Kettles of Human Blood
The Enmity of the Relief Party
"Born under an Evil Star"
"Stone Him! Stone Him!"
Fire and Flood
Keseberg's Reputation for Honesty
A Prisoner in His Own House
The Most Miserable of Men

Chapter XXI.

Sketch of Gen. John A. Sutter
The Donner Party's Benefactor
The Least and Most that Earth Can Bestow
The Survivors' Request
His Birth and Parentage
Efforts to Reach California
New Helvetia
A Puny Army
Uninviting Isolation
Ross and Bodega
Unbounded Generosity
Sutter's Wealth
Effect of the Gold Fever
Wholesale Robbery
The Sobrante Decision
A "Genuine and Meritorious" Grant
Utter Ruin
Hock Farm
Gen. Sutter's Death
Mrs. E. P. Houghton's Tribute

Chapter XXII.

The Death List
The Forty-two Who Perished
Names of Those Saved
Forty-eight Survivors
Traversing Snow-belt Five Times
Burying the Dead
An Appalling Spectacle
Tamsen Donner's Last Act of Devotion
A Remarkable Proposal
Twenty-six Present Survivors
McCutchen
Keseberg
The Graves Family
The Murphys
Naming Marysville
The Reeds
The Breens

Chapter XXIII.

The Orphan Children of George and Tamsen Donner
Sutter, the Philanthropist
"If Mother Would Only Come"
Christian and Mary Brunner
An Enchanting Home
"Can't You Keep Both of Us?"
Eliza Donner Crossing the Torrent
Earning a Silver Dollar
The Gold Excitement
Getting an Education
Elitha C. Donner
Leanna C. Donner
Frances E. Donner
Georgia A. Donner
Eliza P Donner

Chapter XXIV.

Yerba Buena's Gift to George and Mary Donner
An Alcalde's Negligence
Mary Donner's Land Regranted
Squatters Jump George Donner's Land
A Characteristic Land Law-suit
Vexatious Litigation
Twice Appealed to Supreme Court, and once to United States Supreme Court
A Well-taken Law Point
Mutilating Records
A Palpable Erasure
Relics of the Donner Party
Five Hundred Articles Buried Thirty-two Years
Knives, Forks, Spoons
Pretty Porcelain
Identifying Chinaware
Beads and Arrow-heads
A Quaint Bridle-bit
Remarkable Action of Rust
A Flint-Lock Pistol
A Baby's Shoe
The Resting Place of the Dead
Vanishing Land-marks


Chapter I.


Donner Lake
A Famous Tourist Resort
Building the Central Pacific
California's Skating Park
The Pioneers
The Organization of the Donner Party
Ho! Next day he could
only traverse a
similar distance, and
his exertions so fatigued him that he was
compelled to remain at his
lodgings all the following day. This repose
enabled him to make
his way, on July
6, to
Burgh-on-Sands, less than seven miles from Carlisle, where he spent
the night.

On July 7, as he was being raised in his bed by his attendants to take
his morning meal, he fell back in their arms and expired.

CHAPTER XII.

GAVESTON, THE ORDAINERS, AND BANNOCKBURN.

Edward of Carnarvon was over twenty-three years of age when he
became king. Tall, graceful, and handsome, with magnificent health
and exceptional bodily strength, the young king was, so far as externals
went, almost as fine a man as his father. Yet no one could have been
more absolutely destitute of all those qualities which constitute
Edward I.'s claims to greatness. An utter want of serious purpose blasted
his whole career. It was in vain that his father subjected him to a
careful training in statecraft and in military science. Though not lacking
in intelligence, the young prince from the first to the last concerned
himself with nothing but his own amusements. A confirmed gambler and a
deep drinker, Edward showed a special bent for unkingly and frivolous
diversions. Save in his devotion for the chase, his tastes had
nothing in common with the high-born youths with whom he was
educated.

He showed himself a coward on the battlefield, and shirked even the
mimic warfare of the tournament. He repaid the contempt and dislike
of his own class by withdrawing himself from the society of the
nobles, and associating himself with buffoons, singers, play-actors,
coachmen, ditchers, watermen, sailors, and smiths.

Of the befitting comrades of his youth, the only one of the higher
aristocracy with whom he had any true intimacy was his nephew, Gilbert
of Clare, while the only member of his household for whom he showed
real affection was the Gascon knight, Peter of Gaveston.[1] Attributing
his son's levity to Gaveston's corrupting influence, the old king
had banished the foreign favourite early in 1307. But no change in his
surroundings could stir up the prince's frivolous nature to fulfil
the duties of his station.

Edward's most kingly qualities were love of fine clothes and of ceremonies.
Passionately fond of rowing, driving, horse-breeding, and the rearing of
dogs, his ordinary occupations were those of the athlete or the artisan.
He was skilful with his hands, and an excellent mechanic, proficient
at the anvil and the forge, and proud of his skill in digging ditches
and thatching roofs. Interested in music, and devoted to play-acting, he
was badly educated, taking the coronation oath in the French form
provided for a king ignorant of Latin. Vain, irritable, and easily moved
to outbursts of childish wrath, he was half-conscious of the weakness
of his will, and was never without a favourite, whose affection
compensated him for his subjects' contempt.
The household of so careless a master was disorderly beyond the ordinary
measure of the time. While Edward irritated the nobles by his neglect
of their counsel, he vexed the commons by the exactions of his
purveyors.

[1] That is Gabaston, dep. Basses Pyrénées, cant. Morlaas.

The task which lay before Edward might well have daunted a stronger man.
The old king had failed in the great purpose of his life. Scotland
was in full revolt and had found a man able to guide her destinies.
The crown was deeply in debt; the exchequer was bare of supplies, and
the revenues both of England and Gascony were farmed by greedy and unpopular
companies of Italian bankers, such as the Frescobaldi of Florence, the
king's chief creditors. The nobles, though restrained by the will of the
old king, still cherished the ideals of the age of the Barons' War,
and were convinced that the best way to rule England was to entrust
the machinery of the central government, which Edward I. had
elaborated with so much care, to the control of a narrow council
of earls and prelates.

Winchelsea, though broken in health, looked forward in his banishment to
the renewal of the alliance of baronage and clergy, and to the reassertion
of hierarchical ideals. The papal _curia_, already triumphant in the last
days of the reign of the dead king, was anticipating a return to
the times of Henry III, when every dignity of the English Church was
at its mercy. The strenuous endeavour which had marked the last
reign gave place to the extreme of negligence.

Edward at once broke with the policy of his father.

After receiving, at Carlisle, the homage of the English magnates, he
crossed the Solway to Dumfries, where such Scottish barons as had not
joined Robert Bruce took oaths of fealty to him. He soon relinquished
the personal conduct of the war, and travelled slowly to Westminster on
the pretext of following his father's body to its last resting-place. He
replaced his father's ministers by dependants of his own. Bishop Walter
Langton, the chief minister of the last years of Edward I., was singled
out for special vengeance. He was stripped of his offices, robbed of his
treasure, and thrown into close confinement, without any regard to the
immunities of a churchman from secular jurisdiction. Langton's place as
treasurer was given to Walter Reynolds, an illiterate clerk, who
had won the chief place in Edward's household through his skill in
theatricals.

Ralph Baldock, Bishop of London, was replaced in the chancery by John
Langton, Bishop of Chichester. The barons of the exchequer, the justices
of the high courts, and the other ministers of the old king were
removed in favour of more complacent successors.
Signal favour was shown to all who had fallen under Edward I.'s displeasure.
Bishop Bek, of Durham, was restored to his palatinate, and the road to
return opened to Winchelsea, though ill-health detained him on the Continent
for some time longer. Conspicuous among the returned exiles was Peter
of Gaveston, whom the king welcomed with the warmest affection. He
at once invested his "brother Peter" with the rich earldom of Cornwall,
which the old king, with the object of conferring it on one of his sons
by his second marriage, had kept in his hands since Earl Edmund's death.
A little later Edward married the favourite to his niece, Margaret of
Clare, the eldest sister of Earl Gilbert of Gloucester. Of the tried
comrades of Edward I. the only one who remained in authority was Henry
Lacy, Earl of Lincoln. The abandonment of the Scottish campaign
soon followed. It was no wonder that the Scots lords, who had performed
homage to Edward at Dumfries, began to turn to Bruce. Already king
of the Scottish commons, Robert was in a fair way to become accepted by
the whole people.

The readiness with which the barons acquiesced in Edward's reversal
of his father's policy shows that they had regarded the late king's
action with little favour. Lincoln, the wisest and most influential
of the earls, even found reasons for the grant of Cornwall to Gaveston,
and kept in check his son-in-law, Earl Thomas of Lancaster, who was
the most disposed to grumble at the elevation of the Gascon
favourite.
Gilbert of Gloucester was but newly come to his earldom. He was personally
attached to the king, his old playmate and uncle, and was not unfriendly
to his Gascon brother-in-law. The recent concentration of the
great estates in the hands of a few individuals gave these three earls
a position of overwhelming importance both in the court and in the
country, and with their good-will Edward was safe.

But the weakness of the king and the rashness of the favourite soon caused
murmurs to arise.

Early in 1308 Edward crossed over to France, leaving Gaveston as
regent, and was married on January 25, at Boulogne, to Philip the Fair's
daughter Isabella, a child of twelve, to whom he had been plighted since
1298. The marriage was attended by the French king and a great gathering
of the magnates of both countries. Opportunity was taken of the meeting
for Edward to perform homage for Aquitaine.

After the arrival of the royal couple in England, their coronation
took place on February 25.

Time had been when the reign began with the king's crowning; but Edward
had taken up every royal function immediately on his father's death,
and set a precedent to later sovereigns by dating his own accession from
the day succeeding the decease of his predecessor.

The coronation ceremony, minutely recorded, provided precedents for later
ages. It was some recognition of the work of the last generation
that the coronation oath was somewhat more rigid and involved a more
definite recognition of the rights of the community than on earlier
occasions.

Winchelsea was still abroad, and the hallowing was performed by Henry
Woodlock, Bishop of Winchester.

Discontent was already simmering. Not even Lincoln's weighty influence
could overcome the irritation of the earls at the elevation of the
Gascon knight into their circle. The very virtues of the vigorous
favourite turned to his discredit.

At a tournament given by him, at his own castle of Wallingford, to
celebrate his marriage with the king's niece, the new-made earl, with
a party of valiant knights, challenged a troop, which included the
Earls of Hereford, Warenne, and Arundel, and utterly discomfited his
rivals.[1] The victory of the upstart over magnates of such dignity
was accounted for by treachery, and the prohibition of a coronation
tournament, probably a simple measure of police, was ascribed to
the unwillingness of Peter to give his opponents a legitimate
opportunity of vindicating their skill.

There had been much resentment at Gaveston's appointment as regent during
the king's absence in France. A further outburst of indignation followed
when the Gascon, magnificently arrayed and bedecked with jewels, bore
the crown of St.

Edward in the coronation procession. The queen's uncles, who had
escorted her to her new home, left England disgusted that Edward's
love for Gaveston led him to neglect his bride, and the want of
reserve shown in the personal dealings of the king and his "idol"
suggested the worst interpretation of their relations, though this
is against the weight of evidence.

Rumours spread that the favourite had laid hands on the vast treasures
which Bishop Walter Langton had deposited at the New Temple, and had
extorted from the king even larger sums, which he had sent to his
kinsfolk in Gascony by the agency of the Italian farmers of the
revenue.

[1] _Ann. Paulini_, p. 258, and Monk of Malmesbury, p. 156, are to be
preferred to Trokelowe, p. 65.

Gaveston was a typical Gascon, vain, loquacious, and ostentatious, proud
of his own ready wit and possessed of a fatal talent for sharp and
bitter sayings.

He seems to have been a brave and generous soldier.
There is little proof that he was specially vicious or incompetent, and,
had he been allowed time to establish himself, he might well have been
the parent of a noble house, as patriotic and as narrowly English as
the Valence lords of Pembroke had become in the second generation.
But his sudden elevation rather turned his head, and the dull but
dignified English earls were soon mortally offended by his airs of
superiority, and by his intervention between them and the sovereign.

"If," wrote the annalist of St. Paul's, London, "one of the earls or
magnates sought any special favour of the king, the king forthwith sent
him to Peter, and whatever Peter said or ordered at once took place,
and the king ratified it. Hence the whole people grew indignant that
there should be two kings in one kingdom, one the king in name, the other
the king in reality." Gaveston's vanity was touched by the sullen hostility
of the earls. He returned their suspicion by an openly expressed contempt.
He amused himself and the king by devising nicknames for them. Thomas
of Lancaster was the old pig or the play-actor, Aymer of Pembroke was
Joseph the Jew, Gilbert of Gloucester was the cuckoo, and Guy of
Warwick was the black dog of Arden.

Such jests were bitterly resented. "If he call me dog," said Warwick on
hearing of the insult, "I will take care to bite him." The barons
formed an association, bound by oath to drive Gaveston into exile and
deprive him of his earldom. All over the country there were secret meetings
and eager preparations for war. The outlook became still more alarming
when the Earl of Lincoln at last changed his policy. Convinced of the
unworthiness of Gaveston, he turned against him, and the whole baronage
followed his lead. Only Hugh Despenser and a few lawyers adhered to
the favourite. Gloucester did not like to take an active part against his
brother-in-law, but his stepfather, Monthermer, was conspicuous among
the enemies of the Gascon. Winchelsea, too, came to England and threw
his powerful influence on the side of the opposition.

In April, 1308, a parliament of nobles met and insisted upon the exile of
the favourite. The magnates took up a high line. "Homage and the oath
of allegiance," they declared, "are due to the crown rather than to
the person of the king. If the king behave unreasonably, his lieges are
bound to bring him back to the ways of righteousness." On May 18 letters
patent were issued promising that Gaveston should be banished before June
25. Gaveston, bending before the storm, surrendered his earldom and
prepared for departure, while Winchelsea and the bishops declared him
excommunicate if he tarried in England beyond the appointed day. The
king did his best to lighten his friend's misfortune. Fresh grants of
land and castles compensated for the loss of Cornwall and gave him
means for armed resistance.

The grant of Gascon counties, jurisdictions, cities and castles to the
value of 3,000 marks a year provided him with a dignified refuge. The
pope and cardinals were besought to relieve him from the sentence hung
over his head by the archbishop. It is significant of Edward's early
intention to violate his promise, that in his letters to the curia
he still describes Gaveston as Earl of Cornwall. Peter was soon appointed
the king's lieutenant in Ireland. This time he was called Earl
of Cornwall in a document meant for English use. As midsummer approached,
Edward accompanied him to Bristol and bade him a sorrowful farewell.
Attended by a numerous and splendid household, Gaveston crossed over to
Ireland and took up the government of that country, where his energy
and liberality won him considerable popularity.

Edward was inconsolable at the loss of his friend.

For the first time in
his reign he threw
himself into politics
with interest, and
intrigued with
rare
perseverance to bring about his recall. Meanwhile
the business of the state
fell into deplorable confusion. No
supplies were
raised; no laws were passed; no effort
was made to stay the progress
of Robert Bruce.
The magnates
refused to help the king, and
in April, 1309, Edward was
forced to meet a parliament of the
three estates at Westminster.

There he received a much-needed supply, but the barons and commons drew
up a long schedule of grievances, in which they complained of the
abuses of purveyance, the weakness of the government, the tyranny of
the royal officials, and the delays in obtaining justice. The estates
refused point blank the king's request for the recall of Gaveston
and demanded an answer to their petitions in the next parliament.

Edward saw in submission to the estates the only way of bringing back
his brother Peter from his gilded exile. He persuaded the pope
to annul the ecclesiastical censures with which Winchelsea had
sought to prevent Gaveston's return, and then recalled his friend
on his own authority.

Gaveston at once quitted Ireland and was met at Chester by Edward.
Together they attended a parliament of magnates held in July at Stamford.
There Edward announced that he accepted the petitions of the estates
and issued a statute limiting purveyance.

But the real work of this assembly
was the ratification of the recall of the favourite, which was
assured since Edward had won over some of the chief earls to agree
to it.

Gloucester was easily moved to champion his brother-in-law's cause.
Lincoln reverted to his former friendship for the Gascon, and managed
both to overbear the hostility of Lancaster and to induce Earl Warenne,
"who had never shown a cheerful face to Peter since the Wallingford
tournament," to become his friend. Warwick, alone of the earls, was
irreconcilable. But Edward had gained his point.
Two or three men will go hunting twenty miles from camp; and last night
two of our men lay out in the wilderness rather than ride their horses
after a hard chase.

Indeed, if I do not experience something far worse than I have yet done,
I shall say the trouble is all in getting started. Our wagons have not
needed much repair, and I can not yet tell in what respects they could
be improved. Certain it is, they can not be too strong. Our preparations
for the journey might have been in some respects bettered.

Bread has been the principal article of food in our camp. We laid in 150
pounds of flour and 75 pounds of meat for each individual, and I fear
bread will be scarce. Meat is abundant. Rice and beans are good articles
on the road; cornmeal, too, is acceptable. Linsey dresses are the most
suitable for children. Indeed, if I had one, it would be acceptable.
There is so cool a breeze at all times on the plains that the sun does
not feel so hot as one would suppose.

We are now four hundred and fifty miles from Independence. Our route at
first was rough, and through a timbered country, which appeared to be
fertile. After striking the prairie, we found a first-rate road, and the
only difficulty we have had, has been in crossing the creeks. In that,
however, there has been no danger.

I never could have believed we could have traveled so far with so little
difficulty. The prairie between the Blue and the Platte rivers is
beautiful beyond description. Never have I seen so varied a country, so
suitable for cultivation. Everything was new and pleasing; the Indians
frequently come to see us, and the chiefs of a tribe breakfasted at our
tent this morning. All are so friendly that I can not help feeling
sympathy and friendship for them. But on one sheet what can I say?

Since we have been on the Platte, we have had the river on one side and
the ever varying mounds on the other, and have traveled through the
bottom lands from one to two miles wide, with little or no timber. The
soil is sandy, and last year, on account of the dry season, the
emigrants found grass here scarce. Our cattle are in good order, and
when proper care has been taken, none have been lost. Our milch cows
have been of great service, indeed. They have been of more advantage
than our meat. We have plenty of butter and milk.

We are commanded by Captain Russell, an amiable man. George Donner is
himself yet. He crows in the morning and shouts out, "Chain up, boys -
chain up," with as much authority as though he was "something in
particular." John Denton is still with us. We find him useful in the
camp. Hiram Miller and Noah James are in good health and doing well. We
have of the best people in our company, and some, too, that are not so
good.

Buffaloes show themselves frequently.

We have found the wild tulip, the primrose, the lupine, the eardrop, the
larkspur, and creeping hollyhock, and a beautiful flower resembling the
bloom of the beech tree, but in bunches as large as a small sugar-loaf,
and of every variety of shade, to red and green.

I botanize, and read some, but cook "heaps" more. There are four hundred
and twenty wagons, as far as we have heard, on the road between here and
Oregon and California.

Give our love to all inquiring friends. God bless them. Yours, truly,

Mrs. George Donner.

The following letter was published in the journal of July 30, 1846:

South Fork of the Nebraska,
Ten Miles from the Crossing,
Tuesday, June 16, 1846.

Dear Friend: To-day, at nooning, there passed, going to the States,
seven men from Oregon, who went out last year. One of them was well
acquainted with Messrs. Ide and Cadden Keyes, the latter of whom, he
says, went to California. They met the advance Oregon caravan about 150
miles west of Fort Laramie, and counted in all, for Oregon and
California (excepting ours), 478 wagons. There are in our company over
40 wagons, making 518 in all, and there are said to be yet 20 behind.
To-morrow we cross the river, and, by reckoning, will be over 200 miles
from Fort Laramie, where we intend to stop and repair our wagon wheels.
They are nearly all loose, and I am afraid we will have to stop sooner,
if there can be found wood suitable to heat the tires. There is no wood
here, and our women and children are out now gathering "buffalo chips"
to burn, in order to do the cooking. These chips burn well.

Mrs. George Donner.

At Fort Laramie a portion of the Donner Party celebrated the Fourth of
July, 1846. Arriving there on the evening of the third, they pitched
camp somewhat earlier than usual, and prepared a grand dinner for the
Fourth. At the Fort were a large party of Sioux who were on the war-path
against the Snakes or Pawnees. The Sioux were, perhaps, the most warlike
Indian nation on the great prairies, and when dressed in their war paint
and mounted on their fleet ponies, presented a truly imposing
appearance. The utmost friendliness prevailed, and there was a mutual
interchange of gifts and genial courtesies. When the Donner Party
pursued their march, and had journeyed half a day from the Fort, they
were overtaken and convoyed quite a distance by about three hundred
young warriors. The escort rode in pairs alongside the train in true
military fashion. Finally halting, they opened ranks; and as the wagons
passed, each warrior held in his mouth a green twig or leaf, which was
said to be emblematic of peacefulness and good feeling.

The train was never seriously molested by the Sioux. On one occasion,
about fifty warriors on horseback surrounded a portion of the train, in
which was the Graves family. While generally friendly, a few of the
baser sort persisted in attempting to steal, or take by force, trivial
articles which struck their fancy. The main body of Indians were
encamped about half a mile away, and when the annoyances became too
exasperating, W. C. Graves mounted a horse, rode to the encampment, and
notified the Chief of the action of his followers. Seizing an
old-fashioned single-barreled shotgun, the Chief sprang upon his horse
and fairly flew over the plain toward the emigrant wagons. When within
about a hundred yards of the train he attracted attention by giving an
Indian whoop, which was so full of rage and imprecation that the
startled warriors forthwith desisted from their petty persecutions and
scattered in every direction like frightened quail. One of the would-be
marauders was a little tardy in mounting his pony, and as soon as the
Chief got within range, the shotgun was leveled and discharged full at
the unruly subject. Three of the buckshot entered the pony's side and
one grazed the warrior's leg. As if satisfied that his orders to treat
the emigrants in a friendly manner would not be again disregarded, the
Chief wheeled his horse about, and in the most grave and stately manner
rode back to his encampment.

On another occasion, Mary Graves, who was a very beautiful young lady,
was riding on horseback accompanied by her brother. They were a little
in the rear of the train, and a band of Sioux Indians, becoming enamored
with the maiden, offered to purchase her. They made very handsome
offers, but the brother not being disposed to accept, one of the Indians
seized the bridle of the girl's horse and attempted to carry her away
captive. Perhaps the attempt was made in half jest. At all events the
bridle was promptly dropped when the brother leveled his rifle at the
savage.

On the twentieth of July, 1846, George Donner was elected Captain of the
train at the Little Sandy River. From that time forward it was known as
the Donner Party.

One incident, not at all unusual to a trip across the plains, is
pointedly described in a letter written by C. T. Stanton to his brother,
Sidney Stanton, now of Cazenovia, New York. The incident alluded to is
the unfriendliness and want of harmony so liable to exist between
different companies, and between members of the same company. From one
of Mr. Stanton's letters the following extract is made:

"At noon we passed Boggs' company on the Sweetwater; a mile further up
the river, Dunlavy's; a mile further, West's; and about two miles beyond
that, was Dunbar's. We encamped about half way between the two latter.
Thus, within five miles were encamped five companies. At Indian Creek,
twenty miles from Independence, these five companies all constituted
one, but owing to dissensions and quarreling they became broken into
fragments. Now, by accident, we all again once more meet and grasp the
cordial hand; old enmities are forgot, and nothing but good feeling
prevails. * * * * * The next morning we got rather a late start, owing
to a difference of opinion arising in our company as to whether we
should lie by or go ahead. Those wishing to lie by were principally
young men who wished to have a day's hunting among the buffaloes, and
there were also a few families out of meat who wished to lay in a supply
before they left the buffalo country. A further reason was urged that
the cattle were nearly fagged out by hard travel, and that they would
not stand the journey unless we stopped and gave them rest. On the other
side it was contended that if we stopped here the other companies would
all get ahead, the grass would all he eaten off by their thousand head
of cattle, and that consequently, when we came along, our cattle would
starve. The go-ahead party finally ruled and we rolled out."

As will presently be seen, the dissension existing in the company, and
the petty differences of opinion and interest, were the fundamental
causes of the calamities which befell the Donner Party.

When the company was near Fort Bridger, Edward Breen's leg was broken by
a fall from a horse. His mother refused to permit amputation, or rather
left the question to Edward's decision, and of course, boy-like, he
refused to have the operation performed. Contrary to expectation, the
bone knitted, and in a month he walked without a crutch.

At Fort Bridger, which was at this time a mere camp or trading post, the
party heard much commendation bestowed upon a new route via Salt Lake.
This route passed along the southern shore of the Lake, and rejoined the
old Fort Hall emigrant road on the Humboldt. It was said to shorten the
distance three hundred miles. The new route was known as the Hastings
Cut-off, and was named after the famous Lansford W. Hastings, who was
even then piloting a small company over the cut-off. The large trains
delayed for three or four days at Fort Bridger, debating as to the best
course to pursue. It is claimed that but for the earnest advice and
solicitation of Bridger and Vasquez, who had charge of the fort, the
entire party would have continued by the accustomed route. These men had
a direct interest in the Hastings Cut-off, as they furnished the
emigrants with supplies, and had employed Hastings to pilot the first
company over the road to Salt Lake.

After mature deliberation, the party divided, the greater portion going
by Fort Hall and reaching California in safety. With the large train,
which journeyed the old road, this narrative is no longer interested.
Eighty-seven persons, however, took the Hastings Cut-off. Their names
are included in the ninety mentioned in the preceding chapter, it being
remembered that Mrs. Sarah Keyes had died, and that Lewis and Salvador
were not yet members of the party. For several days the party traveled
without much difficulty. They reached Weber River near the head of the
well-known Weber Canyon. At the first crossing of this river, on the
third of August, they found a letter from Hastings stuck in the split of
a stick, informing them that the road down the Weber Canyon was in a
terrible condition, and that it was doubtful if the sixty-six wagons
which L. W. Hastings was then piloting through the canyon would ever
succeed in reaching the plain. In the letter, Hastings advised all
emigrants to avoid the canyon road, and pursue over the mountains a
course which he faintly outlined. In order to obtain further
information, and, if possible, to induce Hastings to return and act as
guide, Messrs. Reed, Stanton, and Pike were sent forward to overtake the
advance company. This was accomplished after a fatiguing trip, which so
exhausted the horses of Stanton and Pike that these gentlemen were
unable to return to the Donner Party. Hastings was overtaken at a point
near the southern end of Great Salt Lake, and came back with Reed to the
foot of the bluffs overlooking the present city of Salt Lake. Here he
declared that he must return to the company he was piloting, and despite
the urgent entreaties of Reed, decided that it was his duty to start
back the next morning. He finally consented, however, to ascend to the
summit of the Wahsatch Mountains, from which he endeavored, as best he
could, to point out the direction in which the wagons must travel from
the head of Weber Canyon. Reed proceeded alone on the route indicated,
taking notes of the country and occasionally blazing trees to assist him
in retracing the course.

Wm. G. Murphy (now of Marysville, Cal.) says that the wagons remained in
the meadows at the head of Weber Canyon until Reed's return. They then
learned that the train which preceded them had been compelled to travel
very slowly down the Weber River, filling in many irregular places with
brush and dirt; that at last they had reached a place where vast
perpendicular pillars of rock approached so closely on either side that
the river had barely space to flow between, and just here the water
plunged over a precipice. To lower the wagons down this precipice had
been a dreadful task.

The Donner Party unanimously decided to travel across the mountains in a
more direct line toward Salt Lake. They soon found rolling highlands and
small summit valleys on the divide between Weber River and Salt Lake.
Following down one of the small streams, they found a varying, irregular
canyon, down which they passed, filling its small stream with brush and
rocks, crossing and recrossing it, making roads, breaking and mending
wagons, until three weeks' time had expired. The entire country was
heavily covered with timber and underbrush. When the party arrived at
the outlet of this stream into Salt Lake Valley, they found it utterly
impassable. It was exceedingly narrow, and was filled with huge rocks
from the cliffs on either side. Almost all the oxen in the train were
necessary in drawing each wagon out of the canyon and up the steep
overhanging mountain. While in this canyon, Stanton and Pike came up to
the company. These gentlemen encountered great hardships after their
horses gave out, and were almost starved to death when they reached the
train.

Instead of reaching Salt Lake in a week, as had been promised, the party
were over thirty days in making the trip. No words can describe what
they endured on this Hastings Cut-off. The terrible delay was rendering
imminent the dangers which awaited them on the Sierra Nevada. At last,
upon ascending the steep rugged mountain before mentioned, the vision of
Great Salt Lake, and the extensive plains surrounding it, burst upon
their enraptured gaze. All were wild with joy and gratitude for their
deliverance from the terrible struggle through which they had just
passed, and all hoped for a prosperous, peaceful journey over pleasant
roads throughout the remainder of the trip to California. Alas! there
were trials in the way compared with which their recent struggles were
insignificant. But for the fatal delay caused by the Hastings Cut-off,
all would have been well, but now the summer was passed, their teams and
themselves were well-nigh exhausted, and their slender stock of
provisions nearly consumed.


Chapter III.


A Grave of Salt
Members of the Mystic Tie
Twenty Wells
A Desolate Alkaline Waste
Abandoned on the Desert
A Night of Horror
A Steer Maddened by Thirst
The Mirage
Yoking an Ox and a Cow
"Cacheing" Goods
The Emigrant's Silent Logic
A Cry for Relief
Two Heroic Volunteers
A Perilous Journey
Letters to Capt. Sutter.


Near the southern shore of great Salt Lake the Donner Party encamped on
the third or fourth of September, 1846. The summer had vanished, and
autumn had commenced tinting, with crimson and gold, the foliage on the
Wahsatch Mountains. While encamped here, the party buried the second
victim claimed by death. This time it was a poor consumptive named Luke
Halloran. Without friend or kinsman, Halloran had joined the train, and
was traveling to California in hopes that a change of climate might
effect a cure. Alas! for the poor Irishman, when the leaves began to
fall from the trees his spirit winged its flight to the better land. He
died in the wagon of Captain George Donner, his head resting in Mrs.
Tamsen Donner's lap. It was at sundown. The wagons had just halted for
the night. The train had driven up slowly, out of respect to the dying
emigrant. Looking up into Mrs. Donner's face, he said: "I die happy."
Almost while speaking, he died. In return for the many kindnesses he had
received during the journey, he left Mr. Donner such property as he
possessed, including about fifteen hundred dollars in coin. Hon. Jas. F.
Breen, of South San Juan, writes: "Halloran's body was buried in a bed
of almost pure salt, beside the grave of one who had perished in the
preceding train. It was said at the time that bodies thus deposited
would not decompose, on account of the preservative properties of the
salt. Soon after his burial, his trunk was opened, and Masonic papers
and regalia bore witness to the fact that Mr. Halloran was a member of
the Masonic Order. James F. Reed, Milton Elliott, and perhaps one or two
others in the train, also belonged to the mystic tie."

On the sixth day of September they reached a meadow in a valley called
"Twenty Wells," as there were that number of wells of various sizes,
from six inches to several feet in diameter. The water in these wells
rose even with the surface of the ground, and when it was drawn out the
wells soon refilled. The water was cold and pure, and peculiarly welcome
after the saline plains and alkaline pools they had just passed. Wells
similar to these were found during the entire journey of the following
day, and the country through which they were passing abounded in
luxuriant grass. Reaching the confines of the Salt Lake Desert, which
lies southwest of the lake, they laid in, as they supposed, an ample
supply of water and grass. This desert had been represented by Bridger
and Vasquez as being only about fifty miles wide. Instead, for a
distance of seventy-five miles there was neither water nor grass, but
everywhere a dreary, desolate, alkaline waste. Verily, it was

"A region of drought, where no river glides,
Nor rippling brook with osiered sides;
Where sedgy pool, nor bubbling fount,
Nor tree, nor cloud, nor misty mount
Appears to refresh the aching eye,
But the barren earth and the burning sky,
And the blank horizon round and round
Spread, void of living sight or sound."

When the company had been on the desert two nights and one day, Mr. Reed
volunteered to go forward, and, if possible, to discover water. His
hired teamsters were attending to his teams and wagons during his
absence. At a distance of perhaps twenty miles he found the desired
water, and hastened to return to the train. Meantime there was intense
suffering in the party. Cattle were giving out and lying down helplessly
on the burning sand, or frenzied with thirst were straying away into the
desert. Having made preparations for only fifty miles of desert, several
persons came near perishing of thirst, and cattle were utterly powerless
to draw the heavy wagons. Reed was gone some twenty hours. During this
time his teamsters had done the wisest thing possible, unhitched the
oxen and started to drive them ahead until water was reached. It was
their intention, of course, to return and get the three wagons and the
family, which they had necessarily abandoned on the desert. Reed passed
his teamsters during the night, and hastened to the relief of his
deserted family. One of his teamster's horses gave out before morning
and lay down, and while the man's companions were attempting to raise
him, the oxen, rendered unmanageable by their great thirst, disappeared
in the desert. There were eighteen of these oxen. Their drink and their
religion seemed to her equally hideous.
She hated the two Dissenting ministers of the place only less
than Valentine Burrows himself, and delighted to pass their wives
with her head high in air.

With these general feelings towards the population in her mind, why
these efforts at consolation and almsgiving? Well, the poor old people
were not responsible; but she did not see that any good had come of
it.
She had said nothing about her visits to George, nor did-she suppose
that he had noticed them. He had been so incessantly busy since
their arrival with conferences and committees that she had seen very
little of him. It was generally believed that the strike was nearing its
end, and that the men were exhausted; but she did not think that George
was very hopeful yet.

Presently, as she neared a dark slope of road, bordered with trees on
one side and the high "bank" of the main pit on the other, her thoughts
turned back to their natural and abiding subject--herself. Oh, the dulness
of life at Ferth during the last three weeks! She thought of her
amusements in town, of the country houses where they might now be staying
but for George's pride, of Cathedine, even; and a rush of revolt and
self-pity filled her mind. George always away, nothing to do in the
ugly house, and Lady Tressady coming directly--she said to herself,
suffocating, her small hands stiffening, that she felt fit to kill
herself.

Half-way down the slope she heard steps behind her in the gathering
darkness, and at the same moment something struck her violently on the
shoulder. She cried out, and clutched at some wooden railings along the
road for support, as the lump of "dirt" from the bank which had been
flung at her dropped beside her.

"Letty, is that you?" shouted a voice from the direction of the village--her
husband's voice. She heard running. In a few seconds George had reached
her and was holding her.

"What is it struck you? I see! Cowards! _damned_ cowards! Has it
broken your arm? Try and move it."
Sick with pain she tried to obey him. "No," she said faintly; "it is not
broken--I think not."
"Good!" he cried, rejoicing; "probably only a bad bruise.

The brute mercifully picked up nothing very hard"--and he pushed the lump
with his foot. "Take my scarf, dear; let me sling it. Ah!--what was
that?
Letty! can you be brave--can you let me go one minute? I sha'n't be out
of your sight."
And he pointed excitedly to a dark spot moving among the bushes along the
lower edge of the "bank."
Letty nodded. "I can stay here."
George leapt the palings and ran. The dark spot ran too, but in queer
leaps and bounds. There was the sound of a scuffle, then George returned,
dragging something or someone behind him.

"I knew it," he said, panting, as he came within earshot of his wife;
"it was that young ruffian, Mary Batchelor's grandson! Now you stand
still, will you? I could hold two of the likes of you with one hand.
Madan!"
He had but just parted from his manager on the path which led sideways
up the "bank," and waited anxiously to see if his voice would reach the
Scotchman's ears. But no one replied. He shouted again; then he put
two fingers in his mouth and whistled loudly towards the pit, holding
the struggling lad all the time.

At the same moment a couple of heavily built men, evidently colliers,
came down the road from the village. George at once called to them from
across the palings.

"Here, you there! this young rascal has been throwing a lump of dirt at
Lady Tressady, and has hit her badly on the arm. Will you two
just walk him up to the police-station for me, while I take my wife
home?"
The two men stopped and stared at the lady by the railings and at Sir
George holding the boy, whose white but grinning face was just
visible in the growing dusk.

"Noa," said one of them at last, "it's noa business ov ourn--is it,
Bill?"
"Noa," said the other, stolidly; and on they tramped.

"Oh, you heroes!" George flung after them. "Attacking a woman in the
dark is about what you understand!--Madan!"
He whistled again, and this time there was a hurrying from overhead.

"Sir George!"
"Come down here, will you, at once!"
In a few more minutes the boy was being marched up the road to the
police-station in charge of the strong-wristed Scotch manager,
and George was free to attend to Letty.

He adjusted a sling very fairly, then made her cling to him with her sound
arm; and they were soon inside their own gates.

"You can't climb this hill," he said to her anxiously.

"Rest at the lodge, and let me go for the brougham."
"I can walk perfectly well--and it will be much quicker."
Involuntarily, he was surprised to find her rather belittling than
exaggerating the ill. As they climbed on in the dark, he helping
her as much as he could, both could not but think of another
accident and another victim. Letty found herself imagining again
and again what the scene with Lady Maxwell, after the East End
meeting, might have been like; while, as for him, a face drew itself
upon the rainy dusk, which the will seemed powerless to blot out.

It was a curious and unwelcome coincidence. His secret sense of it made
him the more restlessly kind.

"What were you in the village for?" he asked, bending to her; "I did not
know you had anything to do there!"

"I had been to see old Bessie Hammersley and Mrs.

Batchelor," she
said, in a tone that tried to
be stiff or indifferent. "Bessie begged, as
usual."
"That was very good of
you. Have you been doing visiting,
then, during
all these
days I have been
away?"
"Yes--a few people."

George groaned.

"What's the use of it--or of anything?

They hate us and we them. This strike begins to eat into my very being.
And the men will be beaten soon, and the feeling towards the employers
will be worse than ever."
"You are sure they will be beaten?"
"Before Christmas, anyway. I daresay there will be some bad times first.

To think a woman even can't walk these roads without danger of
ill-treatment! How is one to have any dealings with the brutes, or any
peace with them?"
His rage and bitterness made her somehow feel her bruises less. She
even looked up in protest.

"Well, it was only a boy, and you used to think he wasn't all there."
"Oh! all there!" said George, scornfully. "There'd be half of them in
Bedlam if one had to make that excuse for them.

There isn't a day passes without some devilry against the non-union men
somewhere. It was only this morning I heard of two men being driven
into a reservoir near Rilston, and stoned in the water."
"Perhaps we should do the same," she said unwillingly.

"Lean on me more heavily--we shall soon be there. You think we should be
brutes too? Probably. We seem to be all brutes for each other--that's the
charming way this competitive world is managed. So you have been looking
after some of the old people, have you? You must have had a dull time
of it this last three weeks--don't think I don't know that!"
He spoke with emotion. He thought he felt her grasp waver a little on
his arm, but she did not speak.

"Suppose--when this business was over--I were to cut the whole concern--let
the pits and the house, and go right away? I daresay I could."

"Could you?" she said eagerly.

"We shouldn't get so much money, you know, as in the best years. But then
it would be certain. What would you say to a thousand a year less?"
he asked her, trying to speak lightly.

"Well, it doesn't seem easy to get on with what we have--even if we
had it," she said sharply.

He understood the reference to his mother's debts, and was silent.

But evidently the recollection, once introduced, generated the
usual heat and irritation in her, for, as they neared the front door,
she suddenly said, with an acerbity he had not heard for some weeks:

"Of course, to have a country house, and not to be able to spend a
farthing upon it--to ask your friends, or have anything decent--is
enough to make anyone sick of it. And, above all, when we needn't
have been here at all this October--"
She stopped, shrinking from the rest of the sentence, but not before he
had time to think, "She say _that_!

--monstrous!"
Aloud he coldly replied:

"It is difficult to see where I could have been but here, this October."

Then the door opened, and the light showed her to him pale, with lips
tight pressed from the pain of her injury. Instantly he forgot everything
but his natural pity and chivalry towards women. He led her in, and
half carried her upstairs. A little later she was resting on her bed, and
he had done everything he could for her till the doctor should
come. She seemed to have passed into an eclipse of temper or moodiness,
and he got little gratitude.

The evening post brought her a letter which he took up to her himself.
He knew the clear, rapid hand, and he knew, too, that Letty had received
many such during the preceding month. He stood beside her a moment,
almost on the point of asking her to let him see it. But the words died
on his lips. And, perceiving that she would not read it while he
was there, he went away again.

When he returned, carrying a new book and asking if he should read to
her, he found her lying with her cheek on her hand, staring into the
fire, and so white and miserable that his heart sank. Had he
married her, a girl of twenty-four, only to destroy her chance of
happiness altogether?

A kind of terror seized him. He had been "good to her," so far as
she and his business had allowed him, since their return; there had been
very little outward jarring; but no one knew better than he that there
had not been one truly frank or reconciling moment.

His own inner life during these weeks had passed in one obscure continuous
struggle--a sort of dull fever of the soul. And she had simply held
herself aloof from him.

He knelt down beside her, and laid his face against hers.

"Don't look so unhappy!" he said in a whisper, caressing her free hand.

She did not answer or make any response till, as he got up again in a
kind of despair as to what to do or say next, she hastily asked:

"Has the constable been up here to see you?"
He looked at her in surprise.

"Yes. It is all arranged. The lad will be brought up before the
magistrates on Thursday."
She fidgeted, then said abruptly:

"I should like him to be let off."
He hesitated.

"That's very nice of you, but it wouldn't be very good for the district."

She did not press the matter, but as he moved away she said fretfully:

"I wish you'd read to me. The pain's horrid."
Thankful, in his remorse, to do anything for her, he tried to amuse
and distract her as he best could. But in the middle of a magazine
story she interrupted him:

"Isn't it the day after to-morrow your mother's coming?"
"According to her letter this morning." He put down the book. "But I
don't think you'll be at all fit to look after her. Shall I write
to-night and suggest that she stays in London a little?"
"No. I shall be all right, the doctor says. I want to tell Esther"--Esther
was the housemaid--"_not_ to get the Blue Room ready for her. I looked
in to-day, and it seemed damp. The back room over the dining-room
is smaller, but it's much warmer."
She turned to look at him with a rather flushed face.

"You know best," he said, smiling. "I am sure it will be all right. But
I sha'n't let her come unless you are better."
He went on reading till it grew late, and it seemed to him she was dropping
off to sleep. He was stealing off by way of the large dressing-room near
by, where he had been installed since their return, when, she
said faintly, "Good-night!"
He returned, and felt the drawing of her hot hand. He stooped and kissed
her. Then she turned away from him, and seemed to go instantly
to sleep.

He went downstairs to his library, and gathered about him some documents
he had brought back from the last meeting of the masters' committee,
which had to be read. But in reality he spent an hour of random thought.

When would she herself tell him anything of her relations to Lady
Maxwell, of the nature and causes of that strange subjection which, as
he saw quite plainly, had been brought about? She must know that
he pined to know; yet she held her secret only the more jealously,
no doubt to punish him.

He thought of her visits to the village, half humorously, half sadly; then
of her speech about the Blue Room and his mother. They seemed to
him signs of some influence at work.
But at last he turned back to his papers with a long impatient sigh.
The clear pessimism with which he was wont to see facts that concerned
himself maintained that all the surrounding circumstance of the
case was as untoward as it could be--this dull house, a troubled
district, his money affairs, the perpetual burden of his mother,
Letty's own thirst for pleasure, and the dying down in himself of
the feelings that might once--possibly--have made up to her for a
good deal. The feelings might be simulated. Was the woman likely
to be deceived? That she was capable of the fiercest jealousy had
been made abundantly plain; and such a temper once roused would
find a hundred new provocations, day by day, in the acts and doings
of a husband who had ceased to be a lover.
Two days later Lady Tressady arrived, with Justine, and her dogs,
and all her paraphernalia. She declared herself better, but she was
a mere shadow of the woman who had tormented George with her debts
and affectations at Malford House a twelvemonth before. She took
Ferth discontentedly, as usual, and was particularly cross with
Letty's assignment to her of the back room, instead of the larger
spare room to the front of the house.
"Damp?--nonsense!" she said to Justine, who was trying to soothe
her on the night she arrived. "I suppose Lady Tressady has some
friend of her own coming to stay--that's, of _course_, what it is.
_C'est parfaitement clair, je te dis--parfaitement!_"
The French maid reminded her that her daughter-in-law had said, on
showing her the room, she had only to express a wish to change, and
the arrangements should be altered at once.
"I daresay," cried Lady Tressady. "But I shall ask _no_ favours of
her--and that, of course, she knew."
"But, miladi, I need only speak to the housemaid."
"Thank you! Then afterwards, whenever I had a pain or a finger-ache,
it would be, 'I told you so!' No! she has managed it very cleverly--very
cleverly indeed!--and I shall let it alone."
Thenceforward, however, there were constant complaints of everything
provided for her--room, food, the dulness of the place, the manners
of her daughter-in-law. Whether it was that her illness had now
reached a stage when the will could no longer fight against it, and
its only effect was demoralising; or whether the strange flash of
courage and natural affection struck from the volatile nature by
the first threat of death could not in any case have maintained
itself, it is hard to say. At any rate, George also found it hard
to keep up his new and better ways with her. The fact was, he
suffered through Letty. In a few days his sympathies were all with
her, and to his amazement he perceived before long that, in spite
of occasional sharp speeches and sulky moments that only an angel
could have forborne, she was really more patient under his mother's
idiosyncrasies than he was. Yet Lady Tressady, even now, was rarely
unmanageable in his presence, and could still restrain herself if
it was a question of his comfort and repose; whereas, it was clear
that she felt a cat-like impulse to torment Letty whenever she saw
her.
One recent habit, however, bore with special heaviness on himself.
Oddly enough, it was a habit of religious discussion. Lady Tressady
in health had never troubled herself in the least as to what the
doctors of the soul might have to say, and had generally gaily
professed herself a sceptic in religious matters, mostly, as George
had often thought, for the sake of escaping all inconvenient
restrictions--such as family prayers, or keeping Sunday, or observing
Lent--which might have got in the way of her amusements.
But, now, poor lady, she was all curiosity and anxiety about this
strange other side of things, and inclined, too, to be rather proud
of the originality of her inquiries on the subject. So that night
after night she would keep George up, after an exhausting day, till
the small hours, while she declared her own views "on God, on Nature,
and on Human Life," and endeavoured to extract his. This latter
part of the exercise was indeed particularly attractive to her; no
doubt because of its difficulty. George had been a singularly
reserved person in these respect's all his life, and had no mind
now to play the part of a coal-seam for his mother to "pike" at.
But "pike" she would incessantly.
"Now, George, look here! what do you _really_ think about a future
life?
Now don't try and get out of it! And don't just talk nonsense to
me because you think I'm ill. I'm not a baby--I really am not. Tell
me--seriously--what you think. Do you honestly expect there _is_ a
future life?"
"I've told you before, mother, that I have no particular thoughts
on that subject. It isn't in my line," George would say, smiling
profanely, but uneasily, and wondering how long this bout of it
might be going to last.With
the single exception of a series of articles contributed to the
Healdsburg Flag by W. C. Graves, two or three years ago, no different
account has ever been published. This explanatory digression from the
narrative is deemed necessary out of respect to the two gentlemen who
conscientiously disagree with Mrs. Murphy and Mrs. Lewis. On all other
important subjects the survivors are harmonious or reconcilable.

W. C. Graves, now of Calistoga, caught the dying man in his arms, and in
a few minutes he was carried a little way up the hill and laid upon the
ground. Reed immediately regretted the act and threw the knife from him.
His wife and daughters gathered about him and began to stanch the blood
that flowed from the gashes on his head. He gently pushed them aside and
went to the assistance of the dying man. He and Snyder had always been
firm friends, and Snyder had been most active in securing a team for
Reed after the latter had lost his cattle in the desert. Snyder expired
in about fifteen minutes, and Reed remained by his side until the last.
Patrick Breen came up, and Snyder said, "Uncle Patrick, I am dead." It
is not certain that he spoke again, though Reed's friends claim that he
said to Reed, "I am to blame."

Snyder's death fell like a thunderbolt upon the Donner Party. Camp was
immediately pitched, the Reed family being a little removed down the
hill from the main body of emigrants. Reed felt that he had only acted
in defense of his own life and in defense of the wife he adored.
Nevertheless, it was evident that trouble was brewing in the main camp
where Snyder's body was lying.

The Reed family were in a sad situation. They commenced the journey with
a more costly and complete outfit than the other emigrants, and thereby
had incurred the envy of some of their less fortunate companions. They
had a fine race horse and good stock, and Virginia had a beautiful pony
of her own, and was fond of accompanying her father on his horseback
excursions. From these and other circumstances the Reeds had acquired
the name of being "aristocratic." Ordinarily, this is a term which would
excite a smile, but on this dreadful day it had its weight in inflaming
the minds of the excited emigrants. On the desert Reed had cached many
valuable articles, but all his provisions had been distributed among his
companions. This, however, was forgotten in the turbulent camp, and the
destitute, desolate family could plainly catch the sound of voices
clamoring for Reed's death.

Meantime, Virginia Reed was dressing the wounds on her father's head.
Mrs. Reed was overwhelmed with grief and apprehension, and the father
came to Virginia for assistance. This brave little woman was only twelve
years old, yet in this and all other acts of which there is a record she
displayed a nerve and skillfulness which would have done credit to a
mature woman. The cuts in Reed's scalp were wide and deep. Indeed, the
scars remained to his dying day. In San Jose, long years afterwards, as
James F. Reed lay dead, the gentle breeze from an open window softly
lifted and caressed his gray hair, disclosing plainly the scars left by
these ugly wounds.

Reed entertained none but the friendliest sentiments toward Snyder.
Anxious to do what he could for the dead, he offered the boards of his
wagon-bed from which to make a coffin for Snyder. This offer, made with
the kindliest, most delicate feeling, was rejected by the emigrants. At
the funeral, Reed stood sorrowfully by the grave until the last clod was
placed above the man who had been one of his best friends. A council was
held by the members of the company. A council to decide upon Reed's
fate. It was in the nature of a court, all-powerful, from whose decision
there was no appeal. Breathlessly the fond wife and affectionate
children awaited the verdict. The father was idolized by the mother and
the little ones, and was their only stay and support.

The friendship of the Donner Party for John Snyder, the conflicting and
distorted accounts of the tragedy, and the personal enmity of certain
members of the company toward Reed, resulted in a decree that he should
be banished from the train. The feeling ran so high that at one time the
end of a wagon-tongue was propped up with an ox-yoke by some of the
emigrants with the intention of hanging Reed thereon, but calmer counsel
prevailed.

When the announcement was communicated to Reed that he was to be
banished, he refused to comply with the decree. Conscious that he had
only obeyed the sacred law of self-defense, he refused to accede to an
unjust punishment. Then came the wife's pleadings! Long and earnestly
Mrs. Reed reasoned and begged and prayed with her husband. All was of no
avail until she urged him to remember the want and destitution in which
they and the entire company were already participants. If he remained
and escaped violence at the hands of his enemies, he might nevertheless
see his children starve before his eyes, and be helpless to aid them.
But if he would go forward, if he would reach California, he could
return with provisions, and meet them on the mountains at that point on
the route where they would be in greatest need. It was a fearful
struggle, but finally the mother's counsels prevailed. Prior to setting
out upon his gloomy journey, Mr. Reed made the company promise to care
for his family.

At the time of the Snyder tragedy, George and Jacob Donner, with their
wagons and families, were two days in advance of the main train. Walter
Herron was with them, and, when Reed came up, Herron concluded to
accompany him to California.

It was contemplated that Reed should go out into the wilderness alone,
and with neither food nor ammunition. Happily this part of the programme
was thwarted. The faithful Virginia, in company with Milton Elliott,
followed Mr. Reed after he had started, and carried him his gun and
ammunition. The affectionate girl also managed to carry some crackers to
him, although she and all the company were even then on short allowance.

The sad parting between Reed and his family, and the second parting with
the devoted Virginia, we pass over in silence. James F. Reed, Jr., only
five years old, declared that he would go with his father, and assist
him in obtaining food during the long journey. Even the baby, only two
and a half years old, would fret and worry every time the family sat
down to their meals, lest father should find nothing to eat on his
difficult way. Every day the mother and daughters would eagerly search
for the letter Mr. Reed was sure to leave in the top of some bush, or in
a split stick by the wayside. When he succeeded in killing geese or
ducks, as he frequently did along the Humboldt and Truckee, he would
scatter the feathers about his camping-ground, that his family might see
that he was supplied with food. It is hardly necessary to mention that
Mrs. Reed and the children regarded the father's camping-places as
hallowed ground, and as often as possible kindled their evening fires in
the same spot where his had been kindled.

But a day came when they found no more letters, no further traces of the
father. Was he dead? Had the Indians killed him? Had he starved by the
way? No one could answer, and the mother's cheek grew paler and her dear
eyes grew sadder and more hopeless, until Virginia and Patty both feared
that she, too, was going to leave them. Anxious, grief-stricken, filled
with the belief that her husband was dead, poor Mrs. Reed was fast dying
of a broken heart. But suddenly all her life, and energy, and
determination were again aroused into being by a danger that would have
crushed a nature less noble. A danger that is the most terrible,
horrible, that ever tortured human breast; a danger - that her children,
her babes, must starve to death!


Chapter V.


Great Hardships
The Sink of the Humboldt
Indians Stealing Cattle
An Entire Company Compelled to Walk
Abandoned to Die
Wolfinger Murdered
Rhinehart's Confession
Arrival of C. T. Stanton
A Temporary Relief
A Fatal Accident
The Sierra Nevada Mountains
Imprisoned in Snow
Struggles for Freedom
A Hopeless Situation
Digging for Cattle in Snow
How the Breen Cabin Happened to be Built
A Thrilling Sketch of a Solitary Winter
Putting up Shelters
The Donners have Nothing but Tents
Fishing for Trout.


Starvation now stared the emigrants in the face. The shortest allowance
capable of supporting life was all that was portioned to any member of
the company. At times, some were forced to do without food for a day or
more, until game was procured. The poor cattle were also in a pitiable
condition. Owing to the lateness of the season, the grass was
exceedingly scanty and of a poor quality. Frequently the water was bad,
and filled with alkali and other poisonous deposits. George Donner,
Jacob Donner, Wolfinger, and others, lost cattle at various points along
the Humboldt. Mr. Breen lost a fine mare. The Indians were constantly
hovering around the doomed train, ready to steal cattle, but too
cowardly to make any open hostile attack. Arrows were shot into several
of the oxen by Indians who slipped up near them during the night-time.
At midnight, on the twelfth of October, the party reached the sink of
the Humboldt. The cattle, closely guarded, were turned out to graze and
recruit their wasted strength. About dawn on the morning of the
thirteenth the guard came into camp to breakfast. During the night
nothing had occurred to cause the least apprehension, and no indications
of Indians had been observed. Imagine the consternation in camp when it
was discovered that during the temporary absence of the guard twenty-one
head of cattle had been stolen by the redskins. This left the company in
terribly destitute circumstances. All had to walk who were able. Men,
women, and children were forced to travel on foot all day long, and in
many cases were compelled to carry heavy burdens in order to lessen the
loads drawn by the weary cattle. Wm. G. Murphy remembers distinctly
seeing his brother carrying a copper camp-kettle upon his head. The
Graves family, the Breens, the Donners, the Murphys, the Reeds, all
walked beside the wagons until overpowered with fatigue. The men became
exhausted much sooner, as a rule, than the women. Only the sick, the
little children, and the utterly exhausted, were ever allowed to ride.
Eddy and his wife had lost all their cattle, and each carried one of
their children and such personal effects as they were able. Many in the
train were without shoes, and had to travel barefooted over the weary
sands, and flinty, sharp-edged stones.

On the ninth of October a death had resulted from this necessity of
having to walk. It was a case of desertion, which, under other
circumstances, would have been unpardonably heartless. An old man named
Hardcoop was traveling with Keseberg. He was a cutler by trade, and had
a son and daughter in the city of Antwerp, in Belgium. It is said he
owned a farm near Cincinnati, Ohio, and intended, after visiting
California to dispose of this farm, and with the proceeds return to
Antwerp, for the purpose of spending his declining years with his
children. He was a man of nearly three-score years, and the hardships of
the journey had weakened his trembling limbs and broken down his health.
Sick, feeble, helpless as he was, this old man was compelled to walk
with the others. At last, when his strength gave way, he was forced to
lie down by the roadside to perish of cold and hunger. Who can picture
the agony, the horror, the dreary desolation of such a death? The poor
old man walked until his feet actually burst! - walked until he sank
utterly exhausted by the roadside! It was a terrible death! To see the
train disappear in the distance; to know he was abandoned to die of
exposure and starvation; to think that the wolves would devour his flesh
and gnaw his bones; to lie down on the great desert, hungry, famished,
and completely prostrated by fatigue - to meet death thus is too
dreadful to contemplate.

No one made any attempt to return and find the poor old fellow. This,
however, is partially excused by the overwhelming dangers which now
threatened the entire company. Each hour's delay rendered death in the
Sierra Nevada Mountains more imminent.

About the fourteenth of October, beyond the present site of Wadsworth,
another tragedy occurred. Wolfinger, who was supposed to be quite
wealthy, was in the rear of the train, traveling with Keseberg. At
nightfall, neither of the Germans made his appearance. It happened that
both their wives had walked ahead, and were with the emigrants.
Considering it suspicious that the men did not arrive, and fearing some
evil had befallen them, a party returned to ascertain the cause of the
delay. Before proceeding far, however, Keseberg was met traveling
leisurely along. He assured them that Wolfinger was only a little way
behind, and would be along in a few moments. Reassured by this
information, the party returned with Keseberg to camp and awaited the
arrival of Wolfinger. The night passed, and the missing man had not
appeared. Mrs. Wolfinger was nearly frantic. She was a tall,
queenly-looking lady, of good birth and much refinement. She was
recently from Germany, and understood but little English, yet she was
evidently a wellbred lady. Nearly all the survivors remember the elegant
dresses and costly jewelry she wore during the first part of the
journey. Her grief at her husband's disappearance was so heart-rending
that three young men at last consented to start back in the morning and
endeavor to find Wolfinger. W. C. Graves, from whom this information is
obtained, was one of the three who returned. Five miles back the wagon
was found standing in the road. The oxen had been unhitched, but were
still chained together, and were quietly grazing at a little distance.
There were no signs of Indians, but Wolfinger was not to be found. At
the time it was strongly conjectured that Keseberg had murdered
Wolfinger for his money, and had concealed the body. This was doubtless
unjust, for when Joseph Rhinehart was dying, some weeks later, in George
Donner's tent, he confessed that he (Rhinehart) had something to do with
the murder of Wolfinger. The men hitched the oxen to the wagon, and
drove on until they overtook the emigrants, who, owing to the dangers by
which they were encompassed, felt compelled to pursue their onward
journey. The team was given to Mrs. Wolfinger, and she employed a German
by the name of Charles Burger to drive it thereafter. Little was said
about the affair at the time. Mrs. Wolfinger supposed the Indians had
killed her husband.

On the nineteenth of October, C. T. Stanton was met returning with
provisions. The company was near the present town of Wadsworth, Nevada.
A great rejoicing was held over the brave man's return. McCutchen had
been severely ill, and was unable to return with Stanton. But the
latter, true to his word, recrossed the Sierra, and met the emigrants at
a time when they were on the verge of starvation. He had brought seven
mules, five of which were loaded with flour and dried beef. Captain
Sutter had furnished these mules and the provisions, together with two
Indian vaqueros, without the slightest compensation or security. The
Indians, Lewis and Salvador, would assist in caring for the
pack-animals, and would also be efficient guides. Without Stanton's aid
the entire party would have been lost; not a single soul would have
escaped. The provisions, though scant, were sufficient to entirely alter
the situation of affairs. Had the party pressed immediately forward,
they could have passed the summits before the storms began. For some
cause, however, it was concluded to rest the cattle for a few days near
the present site of Reno, preparatory to attempting to ascend the
difficult Sierra. Three or four days' time was lost. This loss was
fatal. The storms on the mountains generally set in about Thanksgiving,
or during the latter days of November. The emigrants trusted that the
storm season of 1846 would not begin earlier than usual. Alas! the
terrible consequences of this mistaken trust!

After the arrival of Stanton, it was still deemed necessary to take
further steps for the relief of the train. The generosity of Captain
Sutter, as shown to Stanton, warranted them in believing that he would
send still further supplies to the needy emigrants. Accordingly, two
brothers-in-law, William Foster and William Pike, both brave and daring
spirits, volunteered to go on ahead, cross the summits, and return with
provisions as Stanton had done. Both men had families, and both were
highly esteemed in the company. At the encampment near Reno, Nevada,
while they were busily preparing to start, the two men were cleaning or
loading a pistol. It was an old-fashioned "pepper-box." It happened,
while they were examining it, that wood was called for to replenish the
fire. One of the men offered to procure it, and in order to do so,
handed the pistol to the other. Everybody knows that the "pepper-box" is
a very uncertain weapon. Somehow, in the transfer, the pistol was
discharged. William Pike was fatally wounded, and died in about twenty
minutes. Mrs. Pike was left a widow, with two small children. The
youngest, Catherine, was a babe of only a few months old, and Naomi was
only three years of age. The sadness and distress occasioned by this
mournful accident, cast a gloom over the entire company, and seemed an
omen of the terrible fate which overshadowed the Donner Party.

Generally, the ascent of the Sierra brought joy and gladness to weary
overland emigrants. To the Donner Party it brought terror and dismay.
The company had hardly obtained a glimpse of the mountains, ere the
winter storm clouds began to assemble their hosts around the loftier
crests. Every day the weather appeared more ominous and threatening. The
delay at the Truckee Meadows had been brief, but every day ultimately
cost a dozen lives. On the twenty-third of October, they became
thoroughly alarmed at the angry heralds of the gathering storm, and with
all haste resumed the journey. It was too late! At Prosser Creek, three
miles below Truckee, they found themselves encompassed with six inches
of snow. On the summits, the snow was from two to five feet in depth.
This was October 28, 1846. Almost a month earlier than usual, the Sierra
had donned its mantle of and snow. The party were prisoners. All was
consternation. The wildest confusion prevailed. In their eagerness,
many, went far in advance of the main train. There was little concert of
action or harmony of plan. All did not arrive at Donner Lake the same
day. Some wagons and families did not reach the lake until the
thirty-first day of October, some never went further than Prosser Creek,
while others, on the evening of the twenty-ninth, struggled through the
snow, and reached the foot of the precipitous cliffs between the summit
and the upper end of the lake. Here, baffled, wearied, disheartened,
they turned back to the foot of the lake.

Several times during the days which succeeded, parties attempted to
cross the mountain barrier. W. C. Graves says the old emigrant road
followed up Cold Stream, and so crossed the dividing ridge. Some wagons
were drawn up this old road, almost to the top of the pass, others were
taken along the north side of Donner Lake, and far up toward the summit.
Some of these wagons never were returned to the lake, but were left
imbedded in the snow. These efforts to cross the Sierra were quite
desultory and irregular, and there was great lack of harmony and system.
Each family or each little group of emigrants acted independently.

At last, one day, a determined and systematic attempt was made to cross
the summit. Nearly the entire train was engaged in the work. The road,
of course, was entirely obliterated by the snow. Guided only by the
general contour of the country, all hands pressed resolutely forward.
Here, large bowlders and irregular jutting cliffs would intercept the
way; there, dizzy precipices, yawning chasms, and deep, irregular
canyons would interpose, and anon a bold, impassable mountain of rock
would rear its menacing front directly across their path. All day long
the men and animals floundered through the snow, and attempted to break
and trample a road. Just before nightfall they reached the abrupt
precipice where the present wagon-road intercepts the snow-sheds of the
Central Pacific. Here the poor mules and oxen had been utterly unable to
find a foothold on the slippery, snow-covered rocks. All that day it had
been raining slightly - a dismal, drizzling, discouraging rain. Most of
the wagons had been left at the lake, and the mules and oxen had been
packed with provisions and necessary articles. Even at this day some of
the survivors are unable to repress a ripple of merriment as they recall
the manner in which the oxen bucked and bellowed when the unaccustomed
packs were strapped upon their backs. Stanton had stoutly insisted upon
taking the mules over the mountains. Perhaps he did not wish to return
to Capt. Sutter without the property which he had borrowed. Many in the
train dissented from this proposition, and endeavored to induce the
Indians, Lewis and Salvador, to leave Stanton, and guide them over the
summits. The Indians realized the imminent danger of each hour's delay,
and would probably have yielded to the solicitations of these
disaffected parties, had not Stanton made them believe that Capt. Sutter
would hang them if they returned to the Fort without the mules. This
incident is mentioned to illustrate the great differences of opinion and
interest which prevailed. Never, from the moment the party encountered
the first difficulties on the Hastings Cut-off until this fatal night in
November, did the members of the company ever agree upon any important
proposition. This night all decided upon a plan for the morrow. The
great and overwhelming danger made them forget their petty animosities,
and united them in one harmonious resolve. On the morrow the mules and
cattle were all to be slain, and the meat was to be stored away for
future emergency. The wagons, with their contents, were to be left at
the lake, and the entire party were to cross the summits on foot.
Stanton had become perfectly satisfied that the mules could not reach
the mountain-top, and readily consented to the proposed plan.

Returning to the lake they sought their weary couches, comforted with
the thought that tomorrow should see all the Donner Party safely over
the summit. That night a heavy snow fell at the lake. It was a night of
untold terror! The emigrants suffered a thousand deaths. The pitiless
snow came down in large, steady masses. All understood that the storm
meant death. One of the Indians silently wrapped his blanket about him
and in deepest dejection seated himself beside a tall pine. In this
position he passed the entire night, only moving occasionally to keep
from being covered with snow. Mrs. Reed spread down a shawl, placed her
four children, Virginia, Patty, James, and Thomas, thereon, and putting
another shawl over them, sat by the side of her babies during all the
long hours of darkness. Every little while she was compelled to lift the
upper shawl and shake off the rapidly accumulating snow.

With slight interruptions, the storm continued several days. The mules
and oxen that had always hovered about camp were blinded and bewildered
by the storm, and straying away were literally buried alive in the
drifts. What pen can describe the horror of the position in which the
emigrants found themselves! It was impossible to move through the deep,
soft snow without the greatest effort. The mules were gone, and were
never found. Most of the cattle had perished, and were wholly hidden
from sight. The few oxen which were found were slaughtered for beef. All
were not killed during any one day, but the emigrants gave this business
their immediate attention, because aside from the beef and a few slight
provisions, the entire party were completely destitute. Mrs. Breen was
compelled to attend personally to the slaughtering of their cattle,
because her husband was an invalid. This family had by far the largest
stock of meat. Too great praise can not be ascribed to Mrs. Breen for
the care and forethought with which she stored up this food for her
children. The meat was simply laid away in piles, like cordwood, and by
the action of the frost was kept fresh until consumed. Mrs. Reed had no
cattle to kill. She succeeded, however, in purchasing two beeves from
Mr. Graves, and two from Mr. Breen, pledging herself to pay when the
journey was ended. Mr. Eddy also purchased one ox of Mr. Graves.

The flesh of many of the cattle which strayed away, and were buried
several feet under the snow, was nevertheless recovered by their owners.
It was soon ascertained that the cattle had endeavored to seek shelter
from the fury of the storm by getting under the branches of the bushiest
trees. Going to these trees, the emigrants would thrust down long poles
with sharpened nails in the ends of them. By thus probing about in the
snow, the whereabouts of a number of cattle was discovered, and the
bodies were speedily dug out of the drifts.

Realizing that the winter must be passed in the mountains, the emigrants
made such preparations as they could for shelter. One cabin was already
constructed. It was located about a quarter of a mile below the foot of
the lake. It had been built in November, 1844, by Moses Schallenberger,
Joseph Foster, and Allen Montgomery. Moses Schallenberger now resides
three and a half miles from San Jose, and when recently interviewed by
Mrs. S. O. Houghton, ne Eliza P. Donner, gave a very complete and
interesting account of the building of this cabin, and the sufferings
endured by his party. This cabin, known as the Breen cabin, is so
intimately connected and interwoven with future chapters in the History
of the Donner Party, that the following items, taken from Mr.
Schallenberger's narration, can not prove uninteresting:

"Mr. Schallenberger's party reached Donner Lake about the middle of
November, 1844, having with them a large quantity of goods for
California. Their cattle being very poor, and much fatigued by the
journey, the party decided to remain here long enough to build a cabin
in which to store their goods until spring. They also decided to leave
some one to look after their stores, while the main portion of the party
would push on to the settlement. Foster, Montgomery, and Schallenberger
built the cabin. Two days were spent in its construction. It was built
of pine saplings, and roofed with pine brush and rawhides. It was twelve
by fourteen feet, and seven or eight feet high, with a chimney in one
end, built "western style." One opening, through which light, air, and
the occupants passed, served as a window and door. A heavy fall of snow
began the day after the cabin was completed and continued for a number
of days. Schallenberger, who was only seventeen years old, volunteered
to remain with Foster and Montgomery. The party passed on, leaving very
little provisions for the encamped. The flesh of one miserably poor cow
was their main dependence, yet the young men were not discouraged. They
were accustomed to frontier life, and felt sure they could provide for
themselves. Bear and deer seemed abundant in the surrounding mountains.
Time passed; the snow continued falling, until it was from ten to
fifteen feet deep. The cow was more than half consumed, and the game had
been driven out of the mountains by the storms.

"The sojourners in that lonely camp became alarmed at the prospect of
the terrible fate which seemed to threaten them, and they determined to
find their way across the mountains. They started and reached the summit
the first night after leaving their camp. Here, young Schallenberger was
taken ill with severe cramps. The following day he was unable to proceed
more than a few feet without falling to the ground. It was evident to
his companions that he could go no farther. They did not like to leave
him, nor did they wish to remain where death seemed to await them.
Finally Schallenberger told them if they would take him back to the
cabin he would remain there and they could go on. This they did, and
after making him as comfortable as possible, they bade him good-by, and
he was left alone in that mountain wild. A strong will and an
unflinching determination to live through all the threatening dangers,
soon raised him from his bed and nerved him to action. He found some
steel traps among the goods stored, and with them caught foxes, which
constituted his chief or only article of food, until rescued by the
returning party, March 1, 1845."

The Breen family moved into the Schallenberger cabin. Against the west
side of this cabin, Keseberg built a sort of half shed, into which he
and his family entered. The Murphys erected a cabin nearer the lake. The
site of this cabin is plainly marked by a large stone about ten or
twelve feet high, one side of which rises almost perpendicularly from
the ground. Against this perpendicular side the Murphys erected the
building which was to shelter them during the winter. It was about three
hundred yards from the shore of Donner Lake, and near the wide marshy
outlet. The Breen and Murphy cabins were distant from each other about
one hundred and fifty yards. The Graves family built a house close by
Donner Creek, and half or three quarters of a mile further down the
stream. Adjoining this, forming a double cabin, the Reeds built. The
Donner brothers, Jacob and George, together with their families, camped
in Alder Creek Valley, six or seven miles from Donner Lake. They were,
if possible, in a worse condition than the others, for they had only
brush sheds and their tents to shield them from the wintry weather. Mrs.
John App (Leanna C. Donner), of Jamestown, Tuolumne County, writes: "We
had no time to build a cabin. The snow came on so suddenly that we had
barely time to pitch our tent, and put up a brush shed, as it were, one
side of which was open. This brush shed was covered with pine boughs,
and then covered with rubber coats, quilts, etc. My uncle, Jacob Donner,
and family, also had a tent, and camped near us."

Crowded in their ill-prepared dwellings, the emigrants could not feel
otherwise than gloomy and despondent. The small quantity of provisions
became so nearly exhausted that it is correct to say they were compelled
to live on meat alone, without so much as salt to give it a relish.
There was an abundance of beautiful trout in the lake, but no one could
catch them. W. C. Graves tells how he went fishing two or three
different times, but without success. The lake was not frozen over at
first, and fish were frequently seen; but they were too coy and wary to
approach such bait as was offered. Soon thick ice covered the water, and
after that no one attempted to fish. In fact, the entire party seemed
dazed by the terrible calamity which had overtaken them.


Chapter VI.


Endeavors to Cross the Mountains
Discouraging Failures
Eddy Kills a Bear
Making SnowShoes
Who Composed the "Forlorn Hope"
Mary A. Graves
An Irishman
A Generous Act
Six Days' Rations
Mary Graves Account
Snow-Blind
C. T. Stanton's Death
"I am Coming Soon"
Sketch of Stanton's Early Life
His Charity and Self-Sacrifice
The Diamond Breastpin
Stanton's Last Poem.


All knew that death speedily awaited the entire company unless some
could cross over the mountain barrier and hasten back relief parties.
Out of the list of ninety persons mentioned in the first chapter, only
Mrs. Sarah Keyes, Halloran, Snyder, Hardcoop, Wolfinger, and Pike had
perished, and only three, Messrs. Reed, Herron, and McCutchen, had
reached California. This left eighty-one persons at the mountain camps.
It was resolved that at the earliest possible moment the strongest and
ablest of the party should endeavor to cross the summits and reach the
settlements. Accordingly, on the twelfth of November, a party of twelve
or fifteen persons set out from the cabins. It was found impossible,
however, to make any considerable headway in the soft, deep snow, and at
midnight they returned to the cabins. They had not succeeded in getting
more than a mile above the head of the lake. In this party were Mr. F.
W. Graves and his two daughters, Mary A. Graves, and Mrs. Sarah Fosdick.
The rest, with the exception of Jay Fosdick and Wm. H. Eddy, were young,
unmarried men, as, for instance, Stanton, Smith, Spitzer, Elliott,
Antoine, John Baptiste, and the two Indians. It was comparatively a
trifling effort, but it seemed to have the effect of utterly depressing
the hopes of several of these men. With no one in the camps dependent
upon them, without any ties of relationship, or bonds of affection,
these young men were be first to attempt to escape from their prison
walls of snow. Failing in this, many of them never again rallied or made
a struggle for existence. Not so, however, with those who were heads of
families. A gun was owned by William Foster, and with it, on the
fourteenth of November, three miles north of Truckee, near the present
Alder Creek Mill, Mr. Eddy succeeded in killing a bear. This event
inspired many  hearts with courage; but, alas it was short-lived. No
other game could be found except two or three wild ducks. What were
these among eighty-one people! Mr. F. W. Graves was a native of Vermont,
and his boyhood days had been spent in sight of the Green Mountains.
Somewhat accustomed to snow, and to pioneer customs, Mr. Graves was the
only member of the party who understood how to construct snow-shoes. The
unsuccessful attempt made by the first party proved that no human being
could walk upon the loose snow without some artificial assistance. By
carefully sawing the ox-bows into strips, so as to preserve their curved
form, Mr. Graves, by means of rawhide thongs, prepared very  serviceable
snow-shoes. Fourteen pair of shoes were made in this manner. It was
certain death for all to remain in camp, and yet the first attempt had
shown that it was almost equally certain death to attempt to reach the
settlements. There was not food for all, and yet the ones who undertook
to cross the mountains were undoubtedly sacrificing their lives for
those who remained in camp. If some should go, those who were left
behind might be able to preserve life until spring, or until relief
came. The stoutest hearts quailed before the thought of battling with
the deep drifts, the storms, and the unknown dangers which lurked on the
summits. The bravest shuddered at the idea of leaving the cabins and
venturing out into the drear and dismal wilderness of snow. Yet they
could count upon their fingers the days that would elapse before the
provisions would be exhausted, and starvation would ensue, if none left
the camps.

Day after day, with aching hearts and throbbing brows, the poor
imprisoned wretches gazed into each other's faces in blank despair. They
were waiting for the daily opening of the soup kitchen, started in
the third week of the great strike by the Baptist minister, who, in
the language of the Tory paper, was "among the worst firebrands of the
district."

There was another soup kitchen further down, to which George had begun
to subscribe immediately on his return to the place. She had
thought it a foolish act on his part thus to help his own men to fight
him the better. But--now, as she watched the miserable crowd outside
the Baptist chapel, she felt the teasing pressure of those new puzzles
of her married life which had so far done little else, it seemed,
than take away her gaiety and her power of amusing herself.

Near her sat an oldish woman with an almost toothless mouth, who was
chattering to her in a tone that Letty knew to be three parts
hypocritical.

"Well, the treuth is the men is that fool 'ardy when they gets a thing
into their yeds, there's no taakin wi un. There's plenty as done like
the strike, my lady, but they dursent say so--they'd be afeard o'
losin the skin off their backs, for soom o' them lads o' Burrows's is
a routin rough lot as done keer what they doos to a mon, an yo canna
exspeck a quiet body to stan up agen 'em. Now, my son, ee comes in
at neet all slamp and downcast, an I says to 'im, 'Is there noa news
yet o' the Jint Committee, John?' I ses to un. 'Noa, mither,' ee says,
'they're just keepin ov it on.' An ee do seem so down'earted when ee sees
the poor soart ov a supper as is aw I can gie un to 'is stomach.
Now, _I'm_ wun o' thoase as _wants_ nuthin. The doctor ses, 'Yo've
got no blude in yer, Missus 'Ammersley, what 'ull yer 'ave?' An I
says, '_Nuthin!_ it's sun cut, an it's sun cooked, _nuthin!_' Noa,
I've niver bin on t' parish--an I _might_--times. An I don't 'old wi
strikes. Lor, it is a poor pleace, is ours--ain't it?--an nobbut a bit
o' bread an drippin for supper."
The old woman threw her eyes round her kitchen, bringing them back
slyly to Letty's face. Letty ended by leaving some money with her,
and walking away as dissatisfied with her own charity as she was with
its recipient.

Perhaps this old body was the only person in the village who would have
begged of "Tressady's wife" at this particular moment. Letty, moreover,
had some reason to believe that her son was one of the roughest of
Burrows's bodyguard; while the old woman was certainly no worse off
than any of her neighbours.

Outside, she was disturbed to find as she walked home, that the street
was full of people, in spite of the rain--of gaunt men and pinched women,
who threw her hostile and sidelong glances as she passed.

She hurried through them. How was it that she knew nothing of them--except,
perhaps, of the few toadies and parasites among them? How was one to
penetrate into this ugly, incomprehensible world of "the people"? The
mere idea of trying to do so filled her with distaste and ennui. She
was afraid of them. She wished she had not stayed so long with that
old gossip, Mrs. Hammersley, and that there were not so many yards of
dark road between her and her own gate. Where was George? She knew
that he had gone up to the pits that afternoon to consult his manager
about some defect in the pumping arrangements. She wished she had
secured his escort for the walk home.
But before she left the village she paused irresolutely, then turned
down a side street, and went to see Mary Batchelor, George's old
nurse, the mother who had lost her only son in his prime.C. T. Stanton, ever
brave, courageous, lion-hearted, said, "I will bring help to these
famishing people or lay down my life." F. W. Graves, who was one of the
noblest men who ever breathed the breath of life, was next to volunteer.
Mr. and Mrs. Graves had nine children, the youngest being only nine
months old. Generously had they parted with the cattle which they
brought to the lake, dividing equally with those families who had no
food. Mary A. Graves and her elder sister, Mrs. Sarah Fosdick,
determined to accompany their father, and as will presently be seen,
their hearts failed not during trials which crushed strong men. Mary
Graves was about nineteen years old. She was a very beautiful girl, of
tall and slender build, and exceptionally graceful carriage. Her
features, in their regularity, were of classic Grecian mold. Her eyes
were dark, bright, and expressive. A fine mouth and perfect set of
teeth, added to a luxuriant growth of dark, rebelliously wavy hair,
completed an almost perfect picture of lovely girlhood. Jay Fosdick
resolved to share with his wife the perils of the way. Mrs. Murphy
offered to take care of the infant children of her married daughters,
Mrs. Foster and Mrs. Pike, if they would join the party. The dear, good
mother argued that what the daughters would eat would keep her and the
little ones from starving. It was nobly said, yet who can doubt but
that, with clearer vision, the mother saw that only by urging them to
go, could she save her daughters' lives. With what anguish did Mrs.
Harriet F. Pike enroll her name among those of the "Forlorn Hope," and
bid good-by to her little two-year-old Naomi and her nursing babe,
Catherine! What bitter tears were shed by Mr. and Mrs. Foster when they
kissed their beautiful baby boy farewell! Alas! though they knew it not,
it was a long, long farewell. Mrs. Eddy was too feeble to attempt the
journey, and the family were so poorly provided with food that Mr. Eddy
was compelled to leave her and the two little children in the cabins,
and go with the party. Mrs. McCutchen also had an infant babe, and Mrs.
Graves employed the same reasoning with her that Mrs. Murphy had so
effectively used with Mrs. Pike and Mrs. Foster. That these three young
mothers left their infant children, their nursing babes, with others,
and started to find relief, is proof stronger than words, of the
desperate condition of the starving emigrants. The Mexican Antoine, the
two Indians Lewis and Salvador, and an Irishman named Patrick Dolan,
completed the fifteen. This Patrick Dolan deserves more than a passing
word. He had owned a farm in Keokuk, Iowa, and selling it, had taken as
the price, a wagon, four oxen, and two cows. With these he joined the
Donner Party, and on reaching the lake had killed his cattle and stored
them away with those killed by the Breens. Dolan was a bachelor, and
about forty years of age. He was possessed of two or three hundred
dollars in coin, but instead of being miserly or selfish, was
characterized by generous openheartedness. "When it became apparent that
there was to be suffering and starvation" (this quotation is from the
manuscript of Hon. James F. Breen), "Dolan determined to lighten the
burden at the camps, and leave with the party that was to attempt the
passage of the summit, so that there should be less to consume the scant
supply of provisions. Previous to his departure, he asked my father
(Patrick Breen) to attend to the wants of Reed's family, and to give of
his (Dolan's) meat to Reed's family as long as possible." Accordingly,
Mrs. Reed and her children were taken into Breen's cabin, where, as
mentioned above, Dolan's meat was stored. Was ever a more generous act
recorded? Patrick Dolan had no relative in the Donner Party, and no
friends, save those whose friendship had been formed upon the plains.
With the cattle which belonged to him he could have selfishly subsisted
until relief came, but, whole-souled Irishman that he was, he gave food
to the mothers and the children and went out into the waste of snow to
perish of starvation! How many who live to-day owe their existence to
Patrick Dolan's self-sacrifice! This blue-eyed, brown haired Irishman is
described as being of a jovial disposition, and inclined to look upon
the bright side of things. Remembering how he gave his life for
strangers, how readily can we appreciate Mr. Breen's tender tribute: "He
was a favorite with children, and would romp and play with a child." As
a token of appreciation for his kindness, Mrs. Reed gave Patrick Dolan a
gold watch and a Masonic emblem belonging to her husband, bidding him to
keep them until he was rewarded for his generosity. The good mother's
word had a significance she wot not of. When Mrs. Reed reached Sutter's
Fort she found these valuables awaiting her. They had been brought in by
Indians. Patrick Dolan had kept them until his death - until the angels
came and bore him away to his reward.

This party of fifteen had taken provisions to last only six days. At the
end of this time they hoped to reach Bear Valley, so they said, but it
is more than probable they dared not take more food from their dear ones
at the cabins. Six days' rations! This means enough of the poor,
shriveled beef to allow each person, three times a day, a piece the size
of one's two fingers. With a little coffee and a little loaf sugar, this
was all. They had matches, Foster's gun, a hatchet, and each a thin
blanket. With this outfit they started to cross the Sierra. No person,
unaccustomed to snow-shoes, can form an idea of the difficulty which is
experienced during one's first attempt to walk with them. Their shoes
would sink deep into the loose, light snow, and it was with great effort
they made any progress. They had been at Donner Lake from forty-two to
forty-six days, and on this first night of their journey had left it
four miles behind them. After a dreadful day's work they encamped, in
full sight of the lake and of the cabins. This was harder for the aching
hearts of the mothers than even the terrible parting from their little
ones. To see the smoke of the cabins, to awake from their troubled
dreams, thinking they heard the cry of their starving babes, to stifle
the maternal yearnings which prompted them to turn back and perish with
their darlings clasped to their breasts, were trials almost unbearable.
The next day they traveled six miles. They crossed the summit, and the
camps were no longer visible. They were in the solemn fastnesses of the
snow-mantled Sierra. Lonely, desolate, forsaken apparently by God and
man, their situation was painfully, distressingly terrible. The snow
was, wrapped about cliff and forest and gorge. It varied in depth from
twelve to sixty feet.

Mrs. M. A. Clarke (Mary Graves), now of White River, Tulare County,
speaking of this second day, says: "We had a very slavish day's travel,
climbing the divide. Nothing of interest occurred until reaching the
summit. The scenery was too grand for me to pass without notice, the
changes being so great; walking now on loose snow, and now stepping on a
hard, slick rock a number of hundred yards in length. Being a little in
the rear of the party, I had a chance to observe the company ahead,
trudging along with packs on their. backs. It reminded me of some
Norwegian fur company among the icebergs. My shoes were ox-bows, split
in two, and rawhide strings woven in, something in form of the
old-fashioned, split-bottomed chairs. Our clothes were of the bloomer
costume, and generally were made of flannel. Well do I remember a remark
one of the company made here, that we were about as near heaven as we
could get. We camped a little on the west side of the summit the second
night."

Here they gathered a few boughs, kindled a fire upon the surface of the
snow, boiled their coffee, and ate their pitiful allowance of beef; then
wrapping their toil-worn bodies in their blankets, lay down upon the
snow. As W. C. Graves remarks, it was a bed that was soft, and white,
and beautiful, and yet it was a terrible bed - a bed of death. The third
day they walked five miles. Starting almost at dawn, they struggled
wearily through the deep drifts, and when the night shadows crept over
crag and pine and mountain vale, they were but five miles on their
journey. They did not speak during the day, except when speech was
absolutely necessary. All traveled silently, and with downcast eyes. The
task was beginning to tell upon the frames of even the strongest and
most resolute. The hunger that continually gnawed at their vitals, the
excessive labor of moving the heavy, clumsy snow-shoes through the soft,
yielding snow, was too much for human endurance. They could no longer
keep together and aid each other with words of hope. They struggled
along, sometimes at great distances apart. The fatigue and dazzling
sunlight rendered some of them snowblind. One of these was the
noble-hearted Stanton. On this third day he was too blind and weak to
keep up with the rest, and staggered into the camp long after the others
had finished their pitiful supper. Poor, brave, generous Stanton! He
said little, but in his inner heart he knew that the end of his journey
was almost at hand.

Who was this heroic being who left the beautiful valleys of the
Sacramento to die for strangers? See him wearily toiling onward during
the long hours of the fourth day. The agony and blindness of his eyes
wring no cry from his lips, no murmur, no word of complaint. With
patient courage and heroic fortitude he strives to keep pace with his
companions, but finds it impossible. Early in the morning he drops to
the rear, and is soon lost to sight. At night he drags his weary limbs
into camp long after his comrades are sleeping 'neath the silent stars.
It must be remembered that they had been accustomed to short allowance
of food for months, while he had been used to having an abundance. Their
bodies had been schooled to endure famine, privations, and long, weary
walks. For many days before reaching the mountains, they had been used
to walking every day, in order to lighten the burdens of the perishing
oxen. Fatigues which exhausted them crushed Stanton. The weather was
clear and pleasant, but the glare of the sun during the day had been
like molten fire to their aching eyes.

On the morning of the fifth day Stanton was sitting smoking by the
smoldering fire when the company resumed its journey. Mary Graves, who
had a tender heart for the suffering of others, went kindly up to him,
and asked him if he were coming. "Yes," he replied, "I am coming soon."
Was he answering her, or the unseen spirits that even then were
beckoning him to the unknown world? "Yes, I am coming soon!" These were
his last words. His companions were too near death's door to return when
they found he came not, and so he perished. He had begged them piteously
to lead him, during the first days of his blindness, but seeming to
realize that they were unable to render assistance, he ceased to
importune, and heroically met his fate. He did not blame his comrades.
They were weak, exhausted, and ready to die of starvation. With food
nearly gone, strength failing, hope lost, and nothing left but the last,
blind, clinging instinct of life, it was impossible that the perishing
company should have aided the perishing Stanton. He was a hero of the
highest, noblest, grandest stamp. No words can ever express a fitting
tribute to his memory. He gave his life for strangers who had not the
slightest claim to the sacrifice. He left the valleys where friends,
happiness, and abundance prevailed, to perish amidst chilling
snow-drifts - famished and abandoned. The act of returning to save the
starving emigrants is as full of heroic grandeur as his death is replete
with mournful desolation.

In May, 1847, W. C. Graves, in company with a relief party, found the
remains of C. T. Stanton near the spot where he had been left by his
companions. The wild animals had partially devoured his body, but the
remains were easily identified by means of his clothing and pistols.

The following sketch of this hero is kindly furnished by his brother,
Sidney Stanton, of Cazenovia, New York:

"Charles Tyler Stanton was born at Pompey, Onondaga County, New York,
March 11, 1811. He was five feet five inches in height. He had brown
eyes and brown hair. He possessed a robust constitution, and although
rather slender during his youth, at the age of fifteen he became strong
and hearty, and could endure as great hardships as any of his brothers.
He had five brothers and four sisters, and was the seventh child. His
grandparents, on his father's side, were well off at the close of the
revolutionary war, but sold their large farms, and took Continental
money in payment. Soon afterward this money became worthless, and they
lost all. They were at the time living in Berkshire, Massachusetts, but
soon after removed west to the county where C. T. Stanton was born.
There were in his father's family fourteen children - seven sons and
seven daughters."

In his younger days Stanton was engaged as a clerk in a store. He was
honest, industrious, and greatly beloved by those with whom he came in
contact. His early education was limited, but during his employment as
clerk he used every possible endeavor to improve his mind. During his
journey across the plains, he was regarded as somewhat of a savant, on
account of his knowledge of botany, geology, and other branches of
natural science. His disposition was generous to a fault. He never was
happier than when bestowing assistance upon needy friends. His widowed
mother, for whom he entertained the most devoted affection, was kindly
cared for by him until her death in 1835. After this sad event he
removed to Chicago. At Chicago he made money rapidly for a time, and his
hand was ever ready to give aid to those about him. Charity and heroic
self-sacrifice appear to have been his predominant characteristics. They
stand out in bold relief, not only in his early history, but during his
connection with the Donner Party. While in the mountains he had no money
to give, but instead he gave his strength, his energy, his love, his
all, his very life, for his companions.

That he had a premonition of the gloomy fate which overtook him in the
Sierra, or at least that he fully realized the perils to which he was
exposing his life, is indicated by the following incident: When he set
out from Sutter's Fort to return to the Donner train with provisions, he
left a vest with Captain Sutter. In one of the pockets of this vest was
subsequently found a package directed to the Captain with the following
memorandum: "Captain Sutter will send the within, in the event of my
death, to Sidney Stanton, Syracuse, New York." The package contained a
diamond breastpin. Mr. Sidney Stanton writes as follows concerning this
keepsake:

"I will give you a short history or account of the pin which was left
for me at Sutter's Fort, which Mr. McKinstry forwarded to me. This was
an event so peculiar at the time. He visited me here at Syracuse, while
he was prospering in Chicago. He was on his way to New York, and wanted
a sum of money, which I advanced. Before leaving he fastened this pin on
the dress of my wife, remarking that she must consider it as a present
from him. Nothing more was thought of this event until he again wanted
money. Misfortune had overtaken him, and this event gave him much pain,
not so much on his own account as because he could not relieve the
distress of dear friends when asked for aid. I sent him a little more
money; I had not much to spare, and in talking the matter over with my
wife, she asked, 'Why not send him the pin? It is valuable, and in time
of need he might dispose of it for his comfort.' In saying this she took
the ground that it was left with her as a pledge, not as a gift. I
therefore handed it to my sister to send to him for this purpose. But it
appears by his keeping it and sending it back in the way he did, that he
did consider it a gift, and hence he would not and did not dispose of it
for necessary things for his own comfort. This pin was the only thing of
value which he had at the time of his death."

Stanton was an excellent writer. His descriptions of his travels from
Chicago to the South would make a good-sized and a very interesting
book. His last composition is given below. It is an appropriate ending
to this brief outline of the history of one who should be regarded as
one of the noblest of California's pioneer heroes:

"To My Mother In Heaven."

"Oh, how that word my soul inspires
With holy, fond, and pure desires!
   Maternal love, how bright the flame!
   For wealth of worlds I'd not profane
   Nor idly breathe thy sacred name,
      My mother."

"Thy sainted spirit dwells on high.
How oft I weep, how oft I sigh
   Whene'er I think of bygone time,
   Thy smile of love, which once was mine,
   That look so heavenly and divine,
      My mother."

"Thy warning voice in prayers of love,
Ascending to the throne above
   With tones of eloquence so rife,
   Hath turned my thoughts from wordly strife,
   And cheered me through my wayward life,
      My mother."

"When death shall close my sad career,
And I before my God appear
   There to receive His last decree
   My only prayer there will be
   Forever to remain with thee,
      My mother."


Chapter VII.


A Wife's Devotion
The Smoky Gorge
Caught in a Storm
Casting Lots to See Who should Die
A Hidden River
The Delirium of Starvation
Franklin Ward Graves
His Dying Advice
A Frontiersman's Plan
The Camp of Death
A Dread Resort
A Sister's Agony
The Indians Refuse to Eat
Lewis and Salvador Flee for Their Lives
Killing a Deer
Tracks Marked by Blood
Nine Days without Food.


Let no one censure Stanton's companions for abandoning their brave
comrade. In less than twenty-four hours all were without food, unless,
indeed, it was Mr. Eddy, who, in his narration published by Judge
Thornton, states that on the day of Stanton's death he found half a
pound of bear's meat which had been secreted in a little bag by his
wife. Attached to this meat was a paper, upon which his wife had written
in pencil a note signed, "Your own dear Eleanor." Mr. Eddy had not
discovered this meat until the sorest hour of need, and the hope
expressed in Mrs. Eddy's note, that it would be the means of saving his
life, was literally fulfilled. There is something extremely touching in
the thought that this devoted wife, who, as will presently be seen, was
starving to death in the cabins, saved her husband's life by
clandestinely concealing about his person a portion of the food which
should have sustained herself and her infant children.

In the account given by Mary Graves, is mentioned the following incident
in the fourth day's travel: "Observing by the way a deep gorge at the
right, having the appearance of being full of smoke, I wanted very much
to go to it, but the Indians said no, that was not the way. I prevailed
on the men to fire the gun, but there was no answer. Every time we
neared the gorge I would halloo at the top of my voice, but we received
no answer."

On this day the horror of the situation was increased by the
commencement of a snow-storm. As the flakes fell thick and fast, the
party sat down in the snow utterly discouraged and heartsick.

Mary Graves says: "What to do we did not know. We held a consultation,
whether to go ahead without provisions, or go back to the cabins, where
we must undoubtedly starve. Some of those who had children and families
wished to go back, but the two Indians said they would go on to Captain
Sutter's. I told them I would go too, for to go back and hear the cries
of hunger from my little brothers and sisters was more than I could
stand. I would go as far as I could, let the consequences be what they
might."

There, in the deep, pitiless storm, surrounded on all sides by desolate
wastes of snow, the idea was first advanced that life might be sustained
if some one were to perish. Since leaving the cabins, they had at no
time allowed themselves more than one ounce of meat per meal, and for
two entire days they had not tasted food. The terrible pangs of hunger
must be speedily allayed or death was inevitable. Some one proposed that
lots be cast to see who should die. The terrible proposition met with
opposition from Foster and others, but slips of paper were actually
prepared by some of the men, and he who drew the longest - the fatal
slip - was Patrick Dolan. Who should take Dolan's life? Who was to be
the executioner of the man who had so generously given up the food which
might have sustained his life, and joined the forlorn hope that others
might live? With one accord they rose to their feet and staggered
forward. As if to banish from their minds the horrid thought of taking
Dolan's life, they attempted to pursue their journey.

With the greatest exertion and suffering they managed to crawl, and
stagger, and flounder along until they attained a distance of two or
three miles. Here they camped, and passed a most wretched, desolate
night. The morning dawned; it was dreary, rainy, and discouraging. The
little party set out as usual, but were too weak and lifeless to travel.
The soft snow clung to their feet in heavy lumps like snow-balls.
Instead of making a fire in a new place, Mary Graves says they crawled
back to the camp-fire of the night previous. Here they remained until
night came on - a night full of horrors. The wind howled through the
shrieking forests like troops of demons. The rain had continued all day,
but finally changed to snow and sleet, which cut their pinched faces,
and made them shiver with cold. All the forces of nature seemed to
combine for their destruction. At one time during the night, in
attempting to kindle a fire, the ax or hatchet which they had carried
was lost in the loose snow.

A huge fire was kindled at last, with the greatest difficulty, and in
order to obtain more warmth, all assisted in piling fuel upon the
flames. Along in the night, Mr. Foster thinks it was near midnight, the
heat of the flames and the dropping coals and embers thawed the snow
underneath the fire until a deep, well-like cavity was formed about the
fire. Suddenly, as if to intensify the dreadful horrors of the
situation, the bottom of this well gave way, and the fire disappeared!
The camp and the fire had been built over a stream of water, and the
fire had melted through the overlying snow until it had fallen into the
stream! Those who peered over the brink of the dark opening about which
they were gathered, could hear, far down in the gloom, during the lull
of the storm, the sound of running waters.

If there is anything lacking in this picture of despair, it is furnished
in the groans and cries of the shivering, dying outcasts, and the
demoniacal shrieks and ravings of Patrick Dolan, who was in the delirium
which precedes death. It was not necessary that life should be taken by
the members of the company. Death was busily at work, and before the
wild winter night was ended, his ghastly victims were deaf to wind or
storm.

When the fire disappeared, it became apparent that the entire forlorn
hope would perish before morning if exposed to the cold and storm. W. H.
Eddy says the wind increased until it was a perfect tornado. About
midnight, Antoine overcome by starvation, fatigue, and the bitter cold,
ceased to breathe. Mr. F. W. Graves was dying. There was a point beyond
which an iron nerve and a powerful constitution were unable to sustain a
man. This point had been reached, and Mr. Graves was fast passing away.
He was conscious, and calling his weeping, grief-stricken daughters to
his side, exhorted them to use every means in their power to prolong
their lives. He reminded them of their mother, of their little brothers
and sisters in the cabin at the lake. He reminded Mrs. Pike of her poor
babies. Unless these daughters succeeded in reaching Sutter's Fort, and
were able to send back relief, all at the lake must certainly die.
Instances had been cited in history, where, under less provocation,
human flesh had been eaten, yet Mr. Graves well knew that his daughters
had said they would never touch the loathsome food.

Was there not something noble and grand in the dying advice of this
father? Was he not heroic when he counseled that all false delicacy be
laid aside and that his body be sacrificed to support those that were to
relieve his wife and children?

Earnestly pleading that these afflicted children rise superior to their
prejudices and natural instincts - Franklin Ward Graves died. A sublimer
death seldom is witnessed. In the solemn darkness, in the tempestuous
storm, on the deep, frozen snow-drifts, overcome by pain and exposure,
with the pangs of famine gnawing away his life, this unselfish father,
with his latest breath urged that his flesh be used to prolong the lives
of his companions. Truly, a soul that could prompt such utterances had
no need, after death, for its mortal tenement - it had a better
dwelling-place on high.

With two of their little number in the icy embraces of death, some plan
to obtain warmth for the living was immediately necessary. W. H. Eddy
proposed a frontiersman's method. It was for all to huddle closely
together in a circle, lie down on a blanket with their heads outward,
and be covered with a second blanket. Mr. Eddy arranged his companions,
spread the blanket over them, and creeping under the coverlid, completed
the circle. The wind swept the drifting snow in dense clouds over their
heads. The chilling air, already white with falling snowflakes, became
dense with the drifting masses. In a little while the devoted band were
completely hidden from wind, or storm, or piercing cold, by a deep
covering of snow. The warmth of their bodies, confined between the
blankets, under the depth of snow, soon rendered them comfortably warm.
Their only precaution now was to keep from being buried alive.
Occasionally some member of the party would shake the rapidly
accumulating snow from off their coverlid.

They no longer were in danger of freezing. But while the elements were
vainly waging fierce war above their heads, hunger was rapidly sapping
the fountains of life, and claiming them for its victims. When, for a
moment, sleep would steal away their reason, in famished dreams they
would seize with their teeth the hand or arm of a companion. The
delirium of death had attacked one or two, and the pitiful wails and
cries of these death-stricken maniacs were heart-rending. The dead, the
dying, the situation, were enough to drive one crazy.

The next day was ushered in by one of the most furious storms ever
witnessed on the Sierra. All the day long, drifts and the fast-falling
snow circled above them under the force of the fierce gale. The air was
a frozen fog of swift-darting ice-lances. The fine particles of snow and
sleet, hurled by maddened storm-fiends, would cut and sting so that
one's eyes could not be opened in the storm, and the rushing gale would
hurl one prostrate on the snow. Once or twice the demented Dolan escaped
from his companions and disappeared in the blinding storm. Each time he
returned or was caught and dragged 'neath the covering, but the fatal
exposure chilled the little life remaining in his pulses. During the
afternoon he ceased to shriek, or struggle, or moan. Patrick Dolan, the
warm-hearted Irishman, was starved to death.

Mr. Eddy states, in Thornton's work, that they entered this Camp of
Death, Friday, December 25, Christmas. According to his version they
started from the cabins on the sixteenth day of December, with scanty
rations for six days. On the twenty-second they consumed the last morsel
of their provisions. Not until Sunday noon, December 27, did the storm
break away. They had been over four days without food, and two days and
a half without fire. They were almost dead.

Is there a mind so narrow, so uncharitable, that it can censure these
poor dying people for the acts of this terrible day? With their loved
ones perishing at Donner Lake, with the horror of a lingering death
staring them in the face, can the most unfeeling heart condemn them?

Emerging from the dreary prison-house, they attempted to kindle a fire.
Their matches were wet and useless. Their flint-lock gun would give
forth a spark, but without some dry material that would readily ignite,
it was of no avail.

On this morning of the twenty-seventh Eddy says that he blew up a
powder-horn in an effort to strike fire under the blankets. His face and
hands were much burned. Mrs. McCutchen and Mrs. Foster were also burned,
but not seriously. For some time all efforts to obtain a fire proved
fruitless. Their garments were drenched by the storm. Mrs. Pike had a
mantle that was lined with cotton. The lining of this was cut open, and
the driest portion of the cotton was exposed to the sun's rays, in the
hope that it could be made to catch the spark from the flint. At last
they were successful. A fire was kindled in a dead tree, and the flames
soon leaped up to the loftiest branches. The famished, shivering
wretches gathered round the burning tree. So weak and lifeless were they
that when the great pine limbs burned off and fell crashing about them,
neither man nor woman moved or attempted to escape the threatening
danger. All felt that sudden death would be welcome. They were stunned
and horrified by the dreadful alternative which it was evident they must
accept.

The men finally mustered up courage to approach the dead. With averted
eyes and trembling hand, pieces of flesh were severed from the inanimate
forms and laid upon the coals. It was the very refinement of torture to
taste such food, yet those who tasted lived. One could not eat. Lemuel
Murphy was past relief. A boy about thirteen years old, Lemuel was
dearly loved by his sisters, and, full of courage, had endeavored to
accompany them on the fearful journey. He was feeble when he started
from the cabins, and the overwhelming sufferings of the fatal trip had
destroyed his remaining strength. Starvation is agony during the first
three days, apathy and inanition during the fourth and perhaps the
fifth, and delirium from that time until the struggle ceases. When the
delirium commences, hope ends. Lemuel was delirious Sunday morning, and
when food was placed to his lips he either could not eat or was too near
death to revive. All day Mrs. Foster held her brother's head in her lap,
and by every means in her power sought to soothe his death agonies. The
sunlight faded from the surrounding summits. Darkness slowly emerged
from the canyons and enfolded forest and hill-slope in her silent
embrace. The glittering stars appeared in the heavens, and the bright,
full moon rose over the eastern mountain crests. The silence, the
profound solitude, the ever-present wastes of snow, the weird moonlight,
and above all the hollow moans of the dying boy in her lap, rendered
this night the most impressive in the life of Mrs. Foster. She says she
never beholds a bright moonlight without recurring with a shudder to
this night on the Sierra. At two o'clock in the morning Lemuel Murphy
ceased to breathe. The warm tears and kisses of the afflicted sisters
were showered upon lips that would never more quiver with pain.

Until the twenty-ninth of December they remained at the "Camp of Death."
Would you know more of the shuddering details? Does the truth require
the narration of the sickening minutiae of the terrible transactions of
these days? Human beings were never called upon to undergo more trying
ordeals. Dividing into groups, the members of each family were spared
the pain of touching their own kindred. Days and perhaps weeks of
starvation were awaiting them in the future, and they dare not neglect
to provide as best they might. Each of the four bodies was divested of
its flesh, and the flesh was dried. Although no person partook of
kindred flesh, sights were often witnessed that were blood-curdling.
Mrs. Foster, as we have seen, fairly worshiped her brother Lemuel. Has
human pen power to express the shock of horror this sister received when
she saw her brother's heart thrust through with a stick, and broiling
upon the coals? No man can record or read such an occurrence without a
cry of agony! What, then, did she endure who saw this cruel sight?

These are facts. They are given just as they came from the lips of Mrs.
Foster, a noble woman, who would have died of horror and a broken heart
but for her starving babe, her mother, and her little brothers and
sisters who were at Donner Lake. Mary Graves corroborates Mrs. Foster,
and W. H. Eddy gave a similar version to Judge Thornton.

The Indian guides, Lewis and Salvador, would not eat this revolting
food. They built a fire away from the company, and with true Indian
stoicism endured the agonies of starvation without so much as beholding
the occurrences at the other camp-fire.

Starved bodies possess little flesh, and starving people could carry but
light burdens through such snow-drifts. On these accounts, the provision
which the Almighty seemed to have provided to save their lives, lasted
only until the thirty-first On New Year's morning they ate their
moccasins and the strings of their snow-shoes. On the night before,
Lewis and Salvador caught the sound of ominous words, or perceived
glances that were filled with dreadful import, and during the darkness
they fled.

For several days past the party had been lost. The Indians could not
recognize the country when it was hidden from thirty to fifty feet in
snow. Blindly struggling forward, they gradually separated into three
parties. On the fourth, W. H. Eddy and Mary Graves were in advance with
the gun. A starved deer crossed their path and providentially was slain.
Drinking its warm blood and feasting upon its flesh, this couple waited
for the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Foster, Mrs. McCutchen, and Mrs. Pike,
who were some distance behind. Night came and passed and they did not
arrive. Indeed, Foster was dying for lack of nourishment. Behind this
party were Mr. and Mrs. Jay Fosdick. During the night, Mr. Fosdick
perished, and the faithful wife, after remaining with him until morning,
struggled forward and met Mrs. Foster and a companion. Mrs. Fosdick
related the death of her husband, and upon being informed of Foster's
condition, consented that her husband's body be converted into food. It
was done. This was the first time that women's hands had used the knife,
but by the act a life was saved. Mrs. Fosdick, although dying, would not
touch the food, and but for the venison would not have lived to see the
setting of the sun. But what was one small deer among so many famished
people? Hide, head, feet, entrails, all were eaten. On the sixth, the
last morsel was consumed. They were now without hope. Their journey was
apparently interminable. Wearied, foot-sore, freezing at night and
tortured by hunger during the day, life could not last many hours. Some
one must die; else none could live and reach the long-talked-of relief.
Would it be Eddy, whose wife and two children were behind? Would it be
Mrs. Pike, who left two babes? Mrs. McCutchen, who left one? Mr. or Mrs.
Foster, whose baby boy was at the cabin? Or would it be Mary Graves or
Mrs. Fosdick, who had left mother and family? On the night of the
seventh, they lay down upon the snow without having tasted a mouthful of
food during the day. Continued famine and exhaustion had so weakened
their frames that they could not survive another day. Yet, on the
morning of the seventh, they arose and staggered onward. Soon they
halted and gathered about some freshly made tracks. Tracks marked by
blood! Tracks that they knew had been made by Lewis and Salvador, whose
bare feet were sore and bleeding from cuts and bruises inflicted by the
cruel, jagged rocks, the frozen snow, and flinty ice. These Indians had
eaten nothing for nine days, and had been without fire or blankets for
four days. They could not be far ahead.


Chapter VIII.


Starvation at Donner Lake
Preparing Rawhide for Food
Eating the Firerug
Shoveling Snow off the Beds
Playing they were Tea-cups of Custard
A Starving Baby
Pleading with Silent Eloquence
Patrick Breen's Diary
Jacob Donner's Death
A Child's Vow
A Christmas Dinner
Lost on the Summits
A Stump Twenty-two Feet High
Seven Nursing Babes at Donner Lake
A Devout Father
A Dying Boy
Sorrow and Suffering at the Cabins.


How fared it with those left at Donner Lake? About the time the fifteen
began their terrible journey,  Baylis Williams starved to death. Such
food as the rest had was freely given to him, but it did not is satisfy
the demands of his nature. Quietly, uncomplainingly, he had borne the
pangs of famine, and when the company first realized his dreadful
condition, he was in the delirium which preceded death. What words can
portray the emotions of the starving emigrants, when they saw one of
their number actually perish of hunger before their eyes! Williams died
in the Graves cabin, and was buried near the house by W. C. Graves and
John Denton.

All the Donner Party were starving. When the cattle were killed the
hides had been spread over the cabins in lieu of shingles. These were
now taken down and eaten. All the survivors describe the method of
preparing this miserable substitute for food. But instead of listening
to any praises of his own conduct, he was no sooner clinging to Tressady's
arm than he called to Madan:

"Mr. Madan, sir!"
"Aye, Moses."
"Have ye heard aught of them in the West Heading yet?"
"No, Moses; we must get these fellows out first. We'll go there next."

"I left thirty men and boys there this morning at half-past six. It
was fair thronged up with them." The old man's voice shook.

Meanwhile Madan and the doctors were busy with the transport of the seven
unconscious men, some of whom were already dying. Each of them had
to be carried on his back by two men, and as soon as the sick procession
was organised it was seen that only three of the search party were
left free--Tressady, Burrows, and the Scotch fireman, Macgregor.

Up the level and along the heading, past the point where Dixon was still
at work, over the minor falls that everywhere attested the range
of the explosion, and through the pools of water that here and there
gathered the drippings of the mine, the seven men were tenderly dragged
or carried, till at last the party regained the main intake or
roadway.

George turned to Madan.

"You will have your hands full with these poor fellows. Macgregor and
I--Mr. Burrows, if he likes--will push on to the West Heading."
Madan looked uneasy.

"You'd better go up, Sir George," he said, in a low voice, "and let me
go on. You don't know the signs of the roof as I do. Eight or nine
hours after an explosion is the worst time for falls. Send down another
shift, sir, as quick as you can."
"Why should you risk more than I?" said George, quietly. "Stop! What
time is it?" He looked at his watch. Five o'clock--nearly nine hours since
they descended! He might have guessed it at three, if he had been asked.

Time in the midst of such an experience contracts to a pin's point. But
the sight of the watch stirred a pang in him.

"Send word at once to Lady Tressady," he said, in Madan's ear, drawing
the manager to one side.

"Tell her I have gone on a little farther, and may be another hour or two
in getting back. If she is down at the bank, beg her from me to go home.
Tell her the chances are that we may find the other men as safe as
these."
Madan acquiesced reluctantly. George then plundered him of some dry
biscuits--of some keys, moreover, that might be useful in opening
one or two locked doors farther up the workings.

"Macgregor, you'll come?"
"Aye, Sir George."
"You, Mr. Burrows?"
"Of course," said Burrows, carelessly, throwing back his handsome
head.

Some of the rescued men turned and looked hard at their agent and
leader with their sunken eyes. Others took no notice. His prestige had
been lost in defeat; and George had noticed that they avoided speech
with him. No doubt this rescue party had presented itself to the agent
as an opening he dare not neglect.

"Come on, then," said George; and the three men turned back towards the
interior of the pit.

Old Moses, from whose clutch George had just freed himself, stopped short
and looked after them. Then he raised a hoarse voice:

"Be you going to the West Heading, Sir George?"
"Yes," George flung back over his shoulder, already far away.

"The Lord go with yer, Sir George!"
No answer. The old man, breathing hard, caught hold of one of his stronger
comrades and tottered on towards the shaft. Two or three of his fellows
gathered round him. "Aye," said one of them, out of Madan's hearing,
"ee's been a-squeezing of us through the ground, ee ave, but ee's a plucky
lot, is the boss."
"They do say as Burrers slanged 'im fine at the station yesterday,"
said another, hoarsely. "Called 'im the devil untied, one man told
me."
The first speaker, still haggard and bowed from the poison in his blood,
made no reply, and the movement of old Moses' lips, as he staggered
forward, helped on by the two others, his head hanging on his breast,
showed that he was praying.

* * * * *
Meanwhile George and his two companions pushed cautiously on, Macgregor
trying the roof with his lamp from time to time for signs of fire-damp.

Two seams of coal were worked in the mine, one of which was "fiery."
No naked lights, therefore, were allowed, and all "shots" or charges
for loosening the coal were electrically fired.

As they walked, they spoke now and then of the possible cause of
the disaster: whereof Dixon, as they passed him, had bluntly declined
to say a word till his task was done.

George, with the characteristic contempt of intelligence for the
blunderer, threw out a few caustic remarks as to the obstinate
disobedience or carelessness of a certain type of miner--disobedience
which, in his own experience even, had already led to a score of
fatal accidents.

Burrows, irritated apparently by his tone, took up a provoking line
of reply.

Suppose a miner, set to choose between the risk of bringing the coal-roof
down on his head for lack of a proper light to work by, and the risk of
"being blown to hell" by the opening of his lamp, did a mad thing
sometimes, who were other people that they should blame him? His large,
ox-like eyes, clear in the light of his lamp, turned a scornful
defiance on his companion. "Try it yourself, my fine gentleman"--that
was what the expression of them meant.

"He doesn't only risk his own life," said George, shortly.
"That's the answer.--I say, Macgregor, isn't this the door to the Meadows
Pit?

If anything cut us off from the shaft, and supposing we couldn't get
round yet by the return, we might have to try it, mightn't we?"
Macgregor assented, and George as he passed stepped up to the heavy
wooden door, and tried one of the keys he held, that he might be
sure of opening it in case of need.

The door had been unopened for long, and he shook it backwards and forwards
to make the key bite.

Meanwhile Macgregor had lingered a little behind, while Burrows had
walked on.

Suddenly, above the rattle of the door a cracking noise was heard. A
voice of agony rang through the roadway.

"Run, Sir George!

run!"
A rattle like thunder roared through the mine.

It was heard at the pithead, and the people crowded there ran
hither and thither in dismay, thinking it was another explosion

.

* * * * *
Hours passed. At last in George's numbed brain there was a faint
stir of consciousness.

He opened his eyes slowly.

Oh, horror! oh, cruelty!

to come back from merciful nothingness and peace to this burning anguish,
not to be borne, of body and mind.

"I had died," he thought--"it was done with," and a wild, impotent rage,
as against some brutality done him, surged through him.

A little later he made a first slight movement, which was answered at
once by another movement on the part of a man sitting near him. The man
bent over him in the darkness and felt for his pulse.

"Burrows!" The whisper was just perceptible.

"Yes, Sir George."
"What has happened? Where is Macgregor? Give me some brandy--there,
in my inner pocket."

"No; I have it. Can you swallow it? I have tried several times before,
but your mouth was set--it ran down my fingers."

"Give it me."
Their fingers met, George feeling for the flask. As he moved his arm a
groan of anguish broke from him.

"Drink it--if you possibly can."
George put all the power of his being into the effort to swallow a
few drops.

Still the anguish! "O God, my back! and the legs--paralysed!"
The words were only spoken in the brain, but it seemed to him that
he cried them aloud. For a moment or two the mind swam again; then
the brandy began to sting.

He slid down a hand slowly, defying the pain it caused him, to feel his
right leg. The trouser round the thigh hung in ribbons, but the
fragments lying on the flesh were caked and hard; and beneath him
was a pool.

His reason worked with difficulty, but clearly. "Some bad injury to
the thigh," he thought. "Much bleeding--probably the bleeding has dulled
the worst pain. The back and shoulders burnt--"
Then, in the same hesitating, difficult way he managed to lift his hand
to his head, which ached intolerably. The right temple and the hair upon
it were also caked and wet.

He let his hand drop. "How long have I--?" he thought. For already his
revived consciousness could hardly maintain itself; something from
the black tunnels of the mine seemed to be perpetually pressing
out upon it, threatening to drown it like a flood.

"Burrows!"--he felt again with his hand--"where's Macgregor?"
A sob broke from the darkness beside him.

"Crushed in an instant. I heard one cry. Why not we, too?"
"It was such a bad fall?"

"The whole mine seemed to come down." George felt the shudder of the
huge frame. "I escaped; you must have been caught by some of it. Macgregor
was right underneath it. But there was an explosion besides."
"Macgregor's lamp? Broken?" whispered George, after a pause.

"Possibly. It couldn't have been much, or we should have been killed
instantly. I was only stunned--a bit scorched, too--not badly. You're
the lucky one. I shall die by inches."
"Cheer up!" said George, faintly. "I can't last--but they'll find you."

"What chance for either of us," said Burrows, groaning. "The return must
be blocked, too, or they'd have got round to us by now."

"How long--"
"God knows! To judge by the time I've been sitting--since I got you
here--it's night long ago."

"Since you got me here?" repeated George, with feeble interrogation.

"When I came to I was lying with my face in a dampish sort of hollow, and
I suppose the afterdamp had lifted a bit, for I could raise my head.
I felt you close by. Then I dragged myself on a bit, till I felt some
brattice. I got past that, found a dip where the air was better, came
back for you, and dragged you here. I thought you were dead at first;
then I felt your heart.

And since we got here I've found an air-pipe up here along the wall, and
broken it."
George was silent. But the better atmosphere was affecting him somewhat,
and consciousness was becoming clearer.

Only, what seemed to him a loud noise disturbed him--tortured the wound
in his head. Then, gradually, as he bent his mind upon it, he made out
what it was--a slow drip or trickle of water from the face of the wall.
The contrast between his imagination and the reality supplied him
with a kind of measure of the silence that enwrapped them--silence
that seemed in itself a living thing, charged with the brooding vengeance
of the earth upon the creatures that had been delving at her heart.

"Burrows!--that water--maddens me." He moved his head miserably. "Could
you get some? The brandy-flask has a cup."
"There is a little pool by the brattice. I put my cap in as we got there,
and dashed it over you. I'll go again."
George heard the long limbs drag themselves painfully along. Then he
lost count again of time, and all impressions on the ear, till he was
roused by the water at his lips and a hand dashing some on his brow.

He drank greedily.

"Thanks! Put it by me--there; that's safe. Now, Burrows, I'm dying.
Leave me. You can't do anything--and you--you might still try for it.
There are one or two ways that might be worth trying. Take these
keys. I could explain--"
But the little thread of life wavered terribly as he spoke. Burrows
had to put his ear close to the scorched lips.

"No," he said gloomily, "I don't leave a man while there's any life in
him. Besides, there's no chance--I don't know the mine."
Suddenly, as though answering to the other's despair, a throb of such
agony rose in George it seemed to rive body and soul asunder. His poor
Letty!--his child that was to be!--his own energy of life, he had been
so conscious of at the very moment of descending to this hideous
death--all gone, all done!--his little moment of being torn from him by
the inexorable force that restores nothing and explains nothing.

A picture flashed into his mind, an etching that he had seen in Paris in
a shop window--had seen and pondered over.

"Entombed" was written underneath it, and it showed a solitary miner,
on whom the awful trap has fallen, lifting his arms to his face in a last
cry against the universe that has brought him into being, that has
given him nerve and brain--for this!

Wherever he turned his eyes in the blackness he saw it--the lifted arms,
the bare torso of the man, writhing under the agony of realisation--the
tools, symbols of a life's toil, lying as they had dropped for ever
from the hands that should work no more.

It had sent a shudder through him, even amid the gaiety of a Paris
street.

Then this first image was swept away by a second. It seemed to him
that he was on the pit bank again. It was night, but the crowd was
still there, and big fires lighted for warmth threw a glow upon
the faces.

There were stars, and a pale light of snow upon the hills. He looked
into the engine-house. There she was--his poor Letty! O God! He tried
to get through to her, to speak to her. Impossible!

A sound disturbed his dream.

His ear and brain struggled with it--trying to give it a name. A man's
long, painful breaths--half sobs. Burrows, no doubt--thinking of the
woman he loved--of the poor emaciated soul George had seen him tending
in the cottage garden on that April day.

He put out his hand and touched his companion.

"Don't despair," he whispered; "you will see her again. How strange--we
two--we enemies--but this is the end. Tell me about her."
"I took her from a ruffian who had nearly murdered her and the child,"
said the hoarse voice after a pause. "She was happy--in spite of the
drink, in spite of everything--she would have been happy, till she
died.

To think of her alone is too cruel. If people turned their backs on her,
I made up."
"You will see her again," George repeated, but hardly knowing what the
words were he said.

When he next spoke it was with an added strength that astonished his
companion.

"Burrows, promise me something. Take a message from me to my wife.
Come nearer."
Then, as he felt his companion's breath on his cheek, he roused himself
to speak plainly:

"Tell her--I sent her my dear love--that I thanked her with all my heart
and soul for her love--that it was very hard to leave her--and our
child.
Write the words for her, Burrows. Tell her it was impossible for me to
write, but I dictated this." He paused for a long time, then resumed:

"And tell her, too--my last wish was--that she should ask Lord and
Lady Maxwell--can you hear plainly?"--he repeated the names--"to be her
friends and guardians. And bid her ask them--from me--not to forsake
her.
Have you understood? Will you repeat it?"
Burrows, in the mood of one humouring the whim of the dying, repeated what
had been said to him word by word, his own sensuous nature swept
the while by the terrors of a death which seemed but one little
step further from himself than from Tressady.

Yet he did his best to understand, and recollect; and to the message so
printed on his shrinking brain a woman's misery owed its only
comfort in the days that followed.

"Thank you," said Tressady, painfully listening for the last word. "Give
me your hand. Good-bye. You and I--The world's a queer place--I wish
I'd turned you back at the pit's mouth. I wanted to show I bore no
malice.
Well--at least I know--"
The words broke off incoherently. Burrows caught the word "suffering,"
and some phrase about "the men," then Tressady's head slipped back
against the wall, and he spoke no more.

But the mind was active long afterwards. Again and again he seemed to
himself standing in a bright light, alive and free.

Innumerable illusions played about him. In one of the most persistent he
was climbing the slope of a Swiss meadow in May. Oh! the scent of the
narcissus, heavy still with the morning dew--the brush of the wet
grass against his ankles--those yellow anemones shining there beneath
the pines--the roar of the river in the gorge below--and beyond,
far above, the grey peak, sharp and tall against that unmatched
brilliance of the blue.

In another he was riding alone in a gorge aflame with
rhododendrons, and far down in the plain--the burnt-up Indian
plain--some great fortified town, grave on its hill-top, broke the
level lines--"A rose-red city, half as old as time."

Or, again, it was the sea in some glow of sunset, the white reflections
of the sails slipping down and down through the translucent pinks and
blues, till the eye lost itself in the infinity of shades and
tints, which the breeze--oh, the freshness of it!

--was painting each moment anew at its caprice--painting and blotting,
over and over again, as the water swung under the ship.

But all through these freaks of memory some strange thing seemed to have
happened to him. He carried something in his arms--on his breast.

The anguish of his inner pity for Letty, piercing through all else, expressed
itself so.

But sometimes, as the brain grew momentarily clearer, he would wonder,
almost in his old cynical way, at his own pity. She seemed to have come
to love him.

But was it not altogether for her good that his flawed, contradictory
life should be cut violently from hers? Could their marriage, ill-planted,
ill-grown, have come in the end to any tolerable fruit?

His mind passed back, with bitterness, over the nine months of it;
not bitterness towards her--he seemed to be talking to her all the time,
as she lay hidden on his shoulder--bitterness towards himself, towards
the futility of his own life and efforts and desires.

But why his more than any other? The futility, the insignificance of
all that man desires, all that waits on him--that old self-scorn,
which began with the race, tormented him none the less, in dying, for
the myriads it had haunted so before.

An image of human fate, which had struck him in some book, recurred
to him now--an image of daisied grass, alive one moment in the
evening light--a quivering world of blades and dew, insects and
petals, a forest of innumerable lines, crossed by the innumerable
movements of living things--the next withdrawn into the night, all
silenced, all effaced.

So life. Except, perhaps, for pain! His own pain never ceased. The only
eternity that seemed conceivable, therefore, was an eternity of
pain.

It had become to him the last reality. What a horrible quickening had come
to him of that sense for misery, that intolerable compassion, which in
life he had always held to be the death of a man's natural energy!
Again and again, as consciousness still fought against the last
surrender, it seemed to him that he heard voices and hammerings in
the mine.

And while he painfully listened, from the eternal darkness about him,
dim tragic forms would break in a faltering procession--men or young boys,
burnt and marred and slain like himself--turning to him faces he
remembered. It was as though the scorn for pity he had once flung
at Marcella Maxwell had been but the fruit of some obscure and
shrinking foresight that he himself should die drowned and lost in
pity; for as he waited for death his soul seemed to sink into the
suffering of the world, as a spent swimmer sinks into the wave.
One perception, indeed, that was not a perception of pain, this
piteous submission to the human lot brought with it. The accusing
looks of hungry men, the puzzles of his own wavering heart, all
social qualms and compunctions--these things troubled him no more.
In the wanderings of death he was not without the solemn sense that,
after all, he, George Tressady, a man of no professions, and no
enthusiasms, had yet paid his share and done his part.
Was there something in this thought that softened the dolorous
way?
Once--nearly at the last--he opened his eyes with a start.
"What is it? Something watches me. There is a sense of something
that supports--that reconciles. If--_if_--how little would it all
matter! _Oh!
what is this that knows the road I came_--_the flame turned cloud,
the cloud returned to flame_--_the lifted, shifted steeps, and all
the way!_" His dying thought clung to words long familiar, as that
of other men might have clung to a prayer. There was a momentary
sense of ecstasy, of something ineffable.
And with that sense came a rending of all barriers, a breaking of
long tension, a flooding of the soul with joy. Was it a passing
under new laws, into a new spiritual polity? He knew not; but as
he lifted his sightless eyes he saw the dark roadway of the mine
expand, and a woman, stepping with an exquisite lightness and
freedom, came towards him.
Neither shrank nor hesitated. She came to him, knelt by him, and
took his hands. He saw the pity in her dark eyes. "_Is it so bad,
my friend?
Have courage--the end is near." "Care for her--and keep me, too,
in your heart_," he cried to her, piteously. She smiled. Then
light--blinding, featureless light--poured over the vision, and
George Tressady had ceased to live."Jan. 30. Fair and pleasant; wind west; thawing in the sun. John and
Edward Breen went to Graves' this morning. Mrs. - seized on Mrs. Ñ 's
goods until they would be paid; they also took the hides which herself
and family subsisted upon. She regained two pieces only, the balance
they have taken. You may judge from this what our fare is in camp. There
is nothing to be had by hunting, yet perhaps there soon will be."

"Jan. 31. The sun does not shine out brilliant this morning; froze hard
last night; wind northwest. Landrum Murphy died last night about ten
o'clock; Mrs. Reed went to Graves' this morning to look after goods."

Landrum Murphy was a large and somewhat overgrown young man. The hides
and burnt bones did not contain sufficient nourishment to keep him
alive. For some hours before he died, he lay in a semi-delirious state,
breathing heavily and seemingly in little or no pain. Mrs. Murphy went
to the Breen camp, and asked Mrs. Breen for a piece of meat to save her
starving boy. Mrs. Breen gave her the meat, but it was too late, Landrum
could not eat. Finally he sank into a gentle slumber. His breathing grew
less and less distinct, and ere they were fairly aware of it life was
extinct.

"Feb. 4. Snowed hard until twelve o'clock last night; many uneasy for
fear we shall all perish with hunger; we have but little meat left, and
only three hides; Mrs. Reed has nothing but one hide, and that is on
Graves' house; Milton lives there, and likely will keep that. Eddy's
child died last night."

"Feb. 5. It snowed faster last night and to-day than it has done this
winter before; still continues without intermission; wind south-west.
Murphy's folks and Keseberg say they can not eat hides. I wish we had
enough of them. Mrs. Eddy is very weak."

"Feb. 7. Ceased to snow at last; to-day it is quite pleasant.
McCutchen's child died on the second of this month."

This child died and was buried in the Graves cabin. Mr. W. C. Graves
helped dig the grave near one side of the cabin, and laid the little one
to rest. One of the most heart-rending features of this Donner tragedy
is the number of infants that suffered. Mrs. Breen, Pike, Foster,
McCutchen, Eddy, Keseberg, and Graves each had nursing babes when the
fatal camp was pitched at Donner Lake.

"Feb. 8. Fine, clear morning. Spitzer died last night, and we will bury
him in the snow; Mrs. Eddy died on the night of the seventh."

"Feb. 9. Mrs. Pike's child all but dead; Milton is at Murphy's, not able
to get out of bed; Mrs. Eddy and child were buried to-day; wind
south-east."

Feb. 10. Beautiful morning; thawing in the sun; Milton Elliott died last
night at Murphy's cabin, and Mrs. Reed went there this morning to see
about his effects. John Denton trying to borrow meat for Graves; had
none to give; they had nothing but hides; all are entirely out of meat,
but a little we have; our hides are nearly all eat up, but with God's
help spring will soon smile upon us."

"Feb. 12. Warm, thawy morning."

"Feb. 14. Fine morning, but cold. Buried Milton in the snow; John Denton
not well."

"Feb. 15. Morning cloudy until nine o'clock, then cleared off warm. Mrs.
- refused to give Mrs. - any hides. Put Sutter's pack hides on her
shanty, and would not let her have them."

"Feb. 16. Commenced to rain last evening, and turned to snow during the
night, and continued until morning; weather changeable, sunshine and
then light showers of hail, and wind at times. We all feel unwell. The
snow is not getting much less at present."


Chapter IX.


The Last Resort
Two Reports of a Gun
Only Temporary Relief
Weary Traveling
The Snow Bridges
Human Tracks!
An Indian Rancherie
Acorn Bread
Starving Five Times!
Carried Six Miles
Bravery of John Rhodes
A Thirty-two Days Journey
Organizing the First Relief Party
Alcalde Sinclair's Address
Captain R. P. Tucker's Companions.


It is recorded of Lewis and Salvador that they came willingly to the
relief of the emigrants. Two of Sutter's best trained vaqueros,
faithful, honest, reliable, they seemed rather proud when chosen to
assist Stanton in driving the mules laden with provisions for the
starving train. Now they were dying! Horrified at the sight of human
beings eating the flesh of their comrades, they withdrew from the whites
at the "Camp of Death." After that they always camped apart, but
continued to act as guides until they became certain that their own
lives were in danger. Then they fled. Starving, exhausted, with frozen
and bleeding feet, the poor wretches dragged their weary bodies onward
until they reached a little streamlet, and here they lay down to die.
Nine days, with no other food than they could find in the snow, was too
much even for their hardy natures. They were unable to move when the
famished "Seven" passed. Yes, passed! for the starving emigrants went on
by the poor fellows, unable to deprive them of the little spark of life
left in their wasted bodies. Traveling was now slow work for the dying
whites. They only went about two hundred yards. In a few more hours,
perhaps that very night, they would die of starvation. Already the
terrible phantasies of delirium were beginning to dance before their
sunken eyes. Ere the Indians would cease breathing some of the Seven
would be past relief. There were two men and five women. William Foster
could see that his wife - the woman who was all the world to him - was
fast yielding to the deadly grasp of the fiends of starvation. For the
sake of his life she had stifled the most sacred instincts of her
womanly nature, and procured him food from Fosdick's body. Should he see
her die the most terrible of deaths without attempting to rescue her?
Reader, put yourself in this man's place. Brave, generous, heroic, full
of lion-like nobility, William Foster could not stoop to a base action.
Contemplate his position! Lying there prostrate upon the snow was Mrs.
Pike, the woman whom, accidentally, he had rendered a widow. Her babes
were dying in the cabins. His own boy was at the cabins. His comrades,
his wife, were in the last stages of starvation. He, also, was dying.
Eddy had not nerve enough, the women could not, and William Foster
must-what! Was it murder? No! Every law book, every precept of that
higher law, self- preservation, every dictate of right, reason or
humanity, demanded the deed. The Indians were past all hope of aid. They
could not lift their heads from their pillow of snow. It was not simply
justifiable - it was duty; it was a necessity.

He told them, when he got back, that he was compelled to take their
lives. They did not moan or struggle, or appear to regret that their
lingering pain was to cease. The five women and Eddy heard two reports
of a gun.

The "Forlorn Hope" might yet save those who were dying at Donner Lake.

Even this relief was but temporary. Taking the wasted flesh from the
bones, drying it, and staggering forward, the little band speedily
realized that they were not yet saved. It was food for only a few days.
Then they again felt their strength failing. Once more they endured the
excruciating torments which precede starvation.

In the very complete account of this trip, which is kindly furnished by
Mary Graves, are many interesting particulars concerning the suffering
of these days. "Our only chance for camp-fire for the night," she says,
"was to hunt a dead tree of some description, and set fire to it. The
hemlock being the best and generally much the largest timber, it was our
custom to select the driest we could find without leaving our course.
When the fire would reach the top of the tree, the falling limbs would
fall all around us and bury themselves in the snow, but we heeded them
not. Sometimes the falling, blazing limbs would brush our clothes, but
they never hit us; that would have been too lucky a hit. We would sit or
lie on the snow, and rest our weary frames. We would sleep, only to
dream of something nice to eat, and awake again to disappointment. Such
was our sad fate! Even the reindeer's wretched lot was not worse! 'His
dinner and his bed were snow, and supper he had not.' Our fare was the
same! We would strike fire by means of the flintlock gun which we had
with us. This had to be carried by turns, as it was considered the only
hope left in case we might find game which we could kill. We traveled
over a ridge of mountains, and then descended a deep canyon, where one
could scarcely see the bottom. Down, down we would go, or rather slide,
for it is very slavish work going down hill, and in many cases we were
compelled to slide on our shoes as sleds. On reaching the bottom we
would plunge into the snow, so that it was difficult getting out, with
the shoes tied to our feet, our packs lashed to our backs, and ourselves
head and ears under the snow. But we managed to get out some way, and
one by one reached the bottom of the canyon. When this was accomplished
we had to ascend a hill as steep as the one we had descended. We would
drive the toes of our shoes into the loose snow, to make a sort of step,
and one by one, as if ascending stair-steps, we climbed up. It took us
an entire day to reach the top of the mountain. Each time we attained
the summit of a mountain, we hoped we should be able to see something
like a valley, but each time came disappointment, for far ahead was
always another and higher mountain. We found some springs, or, as we
called them, wells, from five to twenty feet under ground, as you might
say, for they were under the snow on which we walked. The water was so
warm that it melted the snow, and from some of these springs were large
streams of running water. We crossed numbers of these streams on bridges
of snow, which would sometimes form upon a blade of grass hanging over
the water; and from so small a foundation would grow a bridge from ten
to twenty-five feet high, and from a foot and a half to three feet
across the top. It would make you dizzy to look down at the water, and
it was with much difficulty we could place our clumsy ox-bow snow-shoes
one ahead of the other without falling. Our feet had been frozen and
thawed so many times that they were bleeding and sore. When we stopped
at night we would take off our shoes, which by this time were so badly
rotted by constant wetting in snow, that there was very little left of
them. In the morning we would push our shoes on, bruising and numbing
the feet so badly that they would ache and ache with walking and the
cold, until night would come again. Oh! the pain! It seemed to make the
pangs of hunger more excruciating."

Thus the party traveled on day after day, until absolute starvation
again stared them in the face. The snow had gradually grown less deep,
until finally it disappeared or lay only in patches. Their strength was
well-nigh exhausted, when one day Mary Graves says: "Some one called
out, 'Here are tracks!' Some one asked, 'What kind of tracks human?'
'Yes, human!' Can any one imagine the joy these footprints gave us? We
ran as fast as our strength would carry us."

Turning a chaparral point, they came in full view of an Indian
rancherie. The uncivilized savages were amazed. Never had they seen such
forlorn, wretched, pitiable human beings, as the tattered, disheveled,
skeleton creatures who stood stretching out their arms for assistance.
At first, they all ran and hid, but soon they returned to the aid of
these dying wretches. It is said that the Indian women and children
cried, and wailed with grief at the affecting spectacle of starved men
and women. Such food as they had was speedily offered. It was bread made
of acorns. This was eagerly eaten. It was at least a substitute for
food. Every person in the rancherie, from the toddling papooses to the
aged chief, endeavored to aid them.

After what had recently happened, could anything be more touching than
these acts of kindness of the Indians?

After briefly resting, they pressed forward. The Indians accompanied and
even led them, and constantly supplied them with food. With food? No, it
was not such food as their weakened, debilitated systems craved. The
acorn bread was not sufficient to sustain lives already so attenuated by
repeated starvations. All that the starved experience in the way of pain
and torture before they die, had been experienced by these people at
least four different times. To their horror, they now discovered that
despite the acorn bread, they must die of hunger and exhaustion a fifth
and last time. So sick and weak did they become, that they were
compelled to lie down and rest every hundred yards. Finally, after being
with the Indians seven days, they lay down, and felt that they never
should have strength to take another step. Before them, in all its
beauty and loveliness, spread the broad valley of the Sacramento. Behind
them were the ever-pleading faces of their starving dear ones. Yet
neither hope nor affection could give them further strength. They were
dying in full view of the long-desired haven of rest.

One of the number was hardly so near death's door as his companions. It
was W. H. Eddy. As a last resort, their, faithful allies, the Indians,
took him upon either side, and fairly carried him along. His feet moved,
but they were frozen, and blistered, and cracked, and bleeding. Left
alone, he would have fallen helplessly to the earth. It was as terrible
a journey as ever mortal man performed. How far he traveled, he knew
not. During the last six miles his path was marked by blood-stains from
his swollen feet.

By making abridgments from valuable manuscript contributed by George W.
Tucker, of Calistoga, this narrative may be appropriately continued. Mr.
Tucker's father and relatives had reached Johnson's Ranch on the
twenty-fifth of October, 1846. They had been with the Donner Party until
Fort Bridger was reached, and then took the Fort Hall road. Their
journey had been full of dangers and difficulties, and reaching
Johnson's Ranch, the first settlement on the west side of the Sierra,
they determined to remain during the winter.

One evening, about the last of January, Mr. Tucker says a man was seen
coming down Bear River, accompanied by an Indian. His haggard, forlorn
look showed he was in great distress. When he reached us, he said he was
of the Donner Party. He told briefly how the train had been caught in
the snow east of the mountains, and was unable to get back or forward.
He told how the fifteen had started, and that six beside himself were
still alive. That the six were back in the mountains, almost starved. R.
P. Tucker and three other men started at once with provisions, the
Indian acting as guide. They reached them, fifteen miles back, some time
during the night, and brought them in the next day. The names of the
seven were W. H. Eddy, William Foster, Mrs. S. A. C. Foster, Mrs. H. F.
Pike, Mrs. William McCutchen, Mrs. Sarah Fosdick, and Mary Graves. It
had been thirty-two days since they left Donner Lake!

At Johnson's Ranch there were only three or four families of poor
emigrants. Nothing could be done toward relieving those at Donner Lake
until help could arrive from Sutter's Fort. A rainy winter had flooded
Bear River, and rendered the Sacramento plains a vast quagmire. Yet one
man volunteered to go to Sacramento with the tale of horror, and get men
and provisions. This man was John Rhodes. Lashing two pine logs together
with rawhides, and forming a raft, John Rhodes was ferried over Bear
River. Taking his shoes in his hands, and rolling his pants up above his
knees, he started on foot through water that frequently was from one to
three feet deep. Some time during the night he reached the Fort.

A train in the mountains! Men, women, and children starving! It was
enough to make one's blood curdle to think of it! Captain Sutter,
generous old soul, and Alcalde Sinclair, who lived at Norris' Ranch two
and a half miles from the Fort, offered provisions, and five or six men
volunteered to carry them over the mountains. In about a week, six men,
fully provided with supplies, reached Johnson's Ranch. Meantime the
Tuckers and their neighbors had slaughtered five or six fat cattle, and
had dried or "jerked" the meat. The country was scoured for horses and
mules, and for saddles and pack-saddles, but at last, in ten or twelve
days, they were ready to start. Alcalde Sinclair had come up from the
Fort, and when all were ready to begin their march, he made them a
thrilling little address. They were, he said, starting out upon a
hazardous journey. Nothing could justify them in attempting so perilous
an undertaking except the obligations due to their suffering fellow-men.
He urged them to do all in their power, without sacrificing their lives,
to save the perishing emigrants from starvation and death. He then
appointed Reasin P. Tucker, the father of our informant, captain of the
company. With a pencil he carefully wrote down the name of each man in
the relief party. The names were John Rhodes, Daniel Rhodes, Aquilla
Glover, R. S. Mootrey, Joseph Foster, Edward Coffeemire, M. D. Ritchie,
James Curtis, William H. Eddy, William Coon, R. P. Tucker, George W.
Tucker, and Adolph Brueheim. Thus the first relief party started.


Chapter X.


A Lost Age in California History
The Change Wrought by the Discovery of Gold
The Start from Johnson's Ranch
A Bucking Horse
A Night Ride
Lost in the Mountains
A Terrible Night
A Flooded Camp
Crossing a Mountain Torrent
Mule Springs
A Crazy Companion
Howlings of Gray Wolves
A Deer Rendezvous
A Midnight Thief
Frightening Indians
The Diary of the First Relief Party.


California, at this time, was sparsely settled, and it was a fearful
undertaking to cross the snowy mountains to the relief of the
storm-bound emigrants. A better idea of the difficulties to be
encountered by the various relief parties can not be presented than by
quoting from the manuscript of George W. Tucker. This gentleman was
sixteen years old at the time of the occurrences narrated, and his
account is vouched for as perfectly truthful and reliable. This sketch,
like the remainder of this book, treats of an epoch in California
history which has been almost forgotten. The scene of his adventures is
laid in a region familiar to thousands of miners and early
Californians. Along the route over which he passed with so much
difficulty, scores of mining camps sprung up soon after the discovery of
gold, and every flat, ravine, and hill-slope echoed to pick, and shovel,
and pan, and to voices of legions of men. Truly, his narration relates
to a lost, an almost unremembered era in the history of the famous
mining counties, Placer and Nevada. In speaking of the first relief
party, he says:

"We mounted our horses and started. The ground was very soft among the
foothills, but we got along very well for two or three miles after
leaving Johnson's ranch. Finally, one of our packhorses broke through
the crust, and down he went to his sides in the mud. He floundered and
plunged until the pack turned underneath his body. He then came out of
the mud, bucking and kicking; and he bucked and kicked, and kicked and
bucked, till he cleared himself of the pack, pack-saddle and all, and
away he went back to the ranch. We gathered up the pack, put it upon the
horse Eddy was riding, and the party traveled on. Eddy and myself were
to go back to the ranch, catch the horse, and returning, overtake them.
We failed to find the horse that day, but the next morning an Indian got
on my horse, and, about nine o'clock, succeeded in finding the missing
animal. My horse, however, was pretty well run down when he got back.
Eddy and myself started about ten o'clock. We had to travel in one day
what the company had traveled in two days. About the time we started it
commenced clouding up, and we saw we were going to have a storm. We went
on until about one o'clock, when my horse gave out. It commenced raining
and was very cold. Eddy said he would ride on and overtake the company,
if possible, and have them stop. He did not overtake them until about
dark, after they had camped.

"My horse could only go in a slow walk, so I walked and led him to keep
from freezing. The rain continued to increase in volume, and by dark it
was coming down in torrents. It was very cold. The little stream began
to rise, but I waded through, though sometimes it came up to my armpits.
It was very dark, but I kept going on in hopes I would come in sight of
the camp-fire. But the darkness increased, and it was very difficult to
find the road. I would get down on my knees and feel for the road with
my hands. Finally, about nine o'clock, it became so dark that I could
not see a tree until I would run against it, and I was almost exhausted
dragging my horse after me. I had lost the road several times, but found
it by feeling for the wagon-ruts. At last I came to where the road made
a short turn around the point of a hill, and I went straight ahead until
I got forty or fifty yards from the road. I crawled around for some time
on my knees, but could not find it. I knew if the storm was raging in
the morning as it was then, if I got very far from the road, I could not
tell which was east, west, north, or south, I might get lost and perish
before the storm ceased, so I concluded to stay right there until
morning. I had no blanket, and nothing on me but a very light coat and
pair of pants. I tied my horse to a little pine tree, and sitting down,
leaned against the tree. The rain came down in sheets. The wind blew,
and the old pine trees clashed their limbs together. It seemed to me
that a second deluge had come. I would get so cold that I would get up
and walk around for a while. It seemed to me I should surely freeze.
Toward morning I began to get numb, and felt more comfortable, but that
was the longest and hardest night I ever experienced.

"In the morning, when it became light enough so that I could see two or
three rods, I got up, but my legs were so numb that I could not walk. I
rolled around until I got up a circulation, and could stand on my feet.
Leaving my horse tied to the tree, I found the road, went about a
hundred yards around the point of a hill, and saw the camp-fire up in a
little flat about a quarter of a mile from where I had spent the night.
Going up to camp, I found the men all standing around a fire they had
made, where two large pines had fallen across each other. They had laid
down pine bark and pieces of wood to keep them out of the water. They
had stood up all night. The water was running two or three inches deep
all through the camp. When I got to the fire, and began to get warm, my
legs and arms began to swell so that I could hardly move or get my hands
to my face.

"It never ceased raining all that day nor the next night, and we were
obliged to stand around the fire. Everything we had was wet. They had
stacked up our dried beef and flour in a pile, and put the saddles and
pack saddles over it as well as they could, but still it got more or
less wet. The third morning it stopped raining about daylight, and the
sun came out clear and warm. We made scaffolds and spread our meat all
out, hung up our blankets and clothing on lines, and by keeping up fires
and with the help of the sun, we managed to get everything dry by night.
The next morning we packed up and started on until we came to a little
valley, where we found some grass for our horses. We stayed there that
night. The next day we got to Steep Hollow Creek, one of the branches of
Bear River. This stream was not more than a hundred feet wide, but it
was about twenty feet deep, and the current was very swift. We felled a
large pine tree across it, but the center swayed down so that the water
ran over it about a foot deep. We tied ropes together and stretched them
across to make a kind of hand railing, and succeeded in carrying over
all our things. We undertook to make our horses swim the creek, and
finally forced two of them into the stream, but as soon as they struck
the current they were carried down faster than we could run. One of them
at last reached the bank and got ashore, but the other went down under
the tree we had cut, and the first we saw of him he came up about twenty
yards below, heels upward. He finally struck a drift about a hundred
yards below, and we succeeded in getting him out almost drowned. We then
tied ropes together, part of the men went over, and tying a rope to each
horse, those on one side would force him into the water, and the others
would draw him across. We lost a half day at this place. That night we
climbed a high mountain, and came to snow. Camped that night without any
feed for our horses. The next day, about noon, we reached Mule Springs.
The snow was from three to four feet deep, and it was impossible to go
any farther with the horses. Unpacking the animals, Joe Varro and Wm.
Eddy started back with them to Johnson's Ranch. The rest of us went to
work and built a brush tent in which to keep our provisions. We set
forks into the ground, laid poles across, and covered them with cedar
boughs. We finished them that evening, and the next morning ten of the
men fixed up their packs, consisting of dried beef and flour, and
started on foot, each one carrying about seventy-five pounds. They left
Billy Coon and myself to watch the provisions until they returned. I
have never been in that country since, but I think Mule Springs is on
the opposite side of Bear River from Dutch Flat.

"After the men had all gone, I amused myself the first day by getting
wood and cutting cedar limbs to finish our camp with. My companion,
Billy Coon, was partially insane, and was no company at all. He would
get up in the morning, eat his food, and then lie down and sleep for two
or three hours. He would only talk when he was spoken to; and all he
knew was to sleep and eat. I got very lonesome, and would sit for hours
thinking of our situation. Sixty miles from any human habitation!
Surrounded with wild Indians and wild beasts! Then, when I would look
away at the snow-capped peaks of the Sierra, and think that my father
and the rest of the men where there, toiling under the heavy loads which
they carried, I became still more gloomy. When night would come, the big
gray wolves that had collected on the mountains facing to the south,
where the snow had melted off, would set up their howlings. This, with
the dismal sound of the wind roaring through the tall pine trees, was
almost unendurable. To this day, when I am in pine timber, and hear the
wind sighing through the tree-tops, I always think of the Donner Party
and of those lonely days in the mountains.

"The third day after the men left I became so lonesome that I took the
gun and went down in the direction in which I had heard the wolves
howling. When I got down out of the snow, I found the deer had collected
there by the hundreds. I killed two deer; went up and got Billy Coon,
and we carried them up to camp. We hung one on each corner of our brush
tent, not more than six feet from our bed, and not more than four feet
from the fire. Next morning one of the deer was gone! I supposed the
Indians had found us out and stolen it; but when I looked for tracks I
found the thief had been a California lion. I tracked him two or three
hundred yards, but he had walked off with the deer so easily, I thought
he might keep it. That afternoon I went down to kill another deer, but
when I reached a point from which I could see down to the river, I saw
the smoke of an Indian camp. I was afraid to shoot for fear the Indians
would hear the gun, and finding out we were there, would come up and
give us trouble. I started back, and when in sight of camp I sat down on
a log to rest. While sitting there I saw three Indians coming up the
hill. I sat still to see what they would do. They came up to within
sight of the camp, and all crawled up behind a large sugar-pine tree,
and sat there watching the camp. I did not like their movements, so
thought I would give them a scare. I leveled the old gun at the tree,
about six feet above their heads, and fired away. They got away from
there faster than they came, and I never saw them afterwards."

"On the fifth day after the men left, three of them came back to the
camp. They informed me they had been three days in traveling from Mule
Springs to Bear Valley, a distance of twelve miles. These three had
found it impossible to stand the journey, but the other seven had
started on from Bear Valley. It was thought they could never get over to
Truckee Lake, for the snow was so soft it was impossible to carry their
heavy loads through from ten to thirty feet of it."

M. D. Ritchie and R. P. Tucker kept a diary of the journey of the first
relief party, which, thanks to Patty Reed, now Mrs. Frank Lewis, is
before us. It is brief, concise, pointed, and completes the narration of
Mr. George W. Tucker. Mr. Ritchie's diary reads:

"Feb. 5, 1847. First day traveled ten miles. Bad roads; often miring down
horses and mules. On the sixth and seventh traveled fifteen miles. Road
continued bad; commenced raining before we got to camp, and continued to
rain all that day and night very severe. Lay by here on the eighth to
dry our provisions and clothing."

"Feb. 9. Traveled fifteen miles. Swam the animals over one creek, and
carried the provisions over on a log."

"Feb. 10. Traveled four miles; came to the snow; continued about four
miles further. Animals floundering in snow, and camped at the Mule
Springs."

"Feb. 11. Mr. Eddy started back with the animals; left William Coon and
George Tucker to guard what provisions were left in camp; the other ten
men, each taking about fifty pounds, except Mr. Curtis, who took about
twenty-five pounds. Traveled on through the snow, having a very severe
day's travel over mountains, making about six miles. Camped on Bear
River, near a cluster of large pines."

"Feb. 12. Moved camp about two miles, and stopped to make snow-shoes;
tried them on and found them of no benefit; cast them away."

"Feb. 13. Made Bear Valley. Upon digging for Curtis' wagon, found the
snow ten feet deep, and the provisions destroyed by the bears. Rain and
snow fell on us all night."

By Curtis' wagon is meant a cache made by Reed and McCutchen, which will
be described in the next chapter.

"Feb. 14. Fine weather."

From this time forward, the journal was kept by Reasin P. Tucker.

"Feb. 15. Fine day. Three of our men decline going any further - W. D.
Ritchie, A. Brueheim, and James Curtis. Only seven men being left, the
party was somewhat discouraged. We consulted together, and under
existing circumstances I took it upon myself to insure every man who
persevered to the end, five dollars per day from the time they entered
the snow. We determined to go ahead, and camped to-night on Yuba River,
after traveling fifteen miles."

"Feb. 16. Traveling very bad, and snowing. Made but five miles, and
camped in snow fifteen feet deep."

"Feb. 17. Traveled five miles."

"Feb. 18. Traveled eight miles, and camped on the head of the Yuba; on
the pass we suppose the snow to be thirty feet deep."

The "pass" was the Summit. Relief was close at hand. Would it find the
emigrants?


Chapter XI.


Hardships of Reed and Herron
Generosity of Captain Sutter
Attempts to Cross the Mountains with Provisions
Curtis' Dog
Compelled to Turn Back
Hostilities with Mexico
Memorial to Gov. Stockton
Yerba Buena's Generosity
Johnson's Liberality
Pitiful Scenes at Donner Lake
Noble Mothers
Dying rather than Eat Human Flesh
A Mother's Prayer
Tears of Joy
Eating the Shoestrings.


James F. Reed encountered the most disheartening trials after leaving
the Donner Party. He and Walter Herron were reduced to the utmost verge
of starvation while on the Sierra Nevada. At one time they discovered
five beans in the road, one after the other, and at another time they
ate of the rancid tallow which was found in a tar bucket under an old
wagon.

Mr. Reed has told the rest in an article contributed by him to the Rural
Press. It explains so well the difficulties of getting relief to the
emigrants, that it is copied:

"When I arrived at Captain Sutter's, making known my situation to him,
asking if he would furnish me horses and saddles to bring the women and
children out of the mountains (I expected to meet them at the head of
Bear Valley by the time I could return there), he at once complied with
the request, also saying that he would do everything possible for me and
the company. On the evening of my arrival at the Captain's, I found
Messrs. Bryant, Lippencott, Grayson, and Jacobs, some of the early
voyagers in the Russel Company, they having left that company at Fort
Laramie, most of them coming on horseback.

"During the evening a meeting was held, in which I participated,
adopting a memorial to the commander of Sutter's Fort, to raise one or
more companies of volunteers, to proceed to Los Angeles, we being at war
with Mexico at this time. The companies were to be officered by the
petitioners. Being requested to take command of one of the companies, I
declined, stating that it would be necessary for the captain to stay
with the company; also that I had to return to the mountains for the
emigrants, but that I would take a lieutenancy. This was agreed to, and
I was on my return to the emigrants to enlist all the men I could
between there and Bear Valley. On my way up I enlisted twelve or
thirteen.

"The second night after my arrival at Captain Sutter's, we had a light
rain; next morning we could see snow on the mountains. The Captain
stated that it was low down and heavy for the first fall of the season.
The next day I started on my return with what horses and saddles Captain
Sutter had to spare. He furnished us all the flour needed, and a hind
quarter of beef, giving us an order for more horses and saddles at Mr.
Cordway's, near where Marysville is located. In the mean time, Mr.
McCutchen joined us, he being prevented from returning with Mr. Stanton
on account of sickness. After leaving Mr. Johnson's ranch we had thirty
horses, one mule, and two Indians to help drive.

"Nothing happened until the evening before reaching the head of Bear
Valley, when there commenced a heavy rain and sleet, continuing all
night. We drove on until a late hour before halting. We secured the
flour and horses, the rain preventing us from kindling a fire. Next
morning, proceeding up the valley to where we were to take the mountain,
we found a tent containing a Mr. Curtis and wife. They hailed us as
angels sent for their delivery, stating that they would have perished
had it not been for our arrival. Mrs. Curtis stated that they had killed
their dog, and at the time of our arrival had the last piece in the
Dutch oven baking. We told them not to be alarmed about anything to eat,
for we had plenty, both of flour and beef, and that they were welcome to
all they needed. Our appetites were rather keen, not having eaten
anything from the morning previous. Mr. Curtis remarked that in the oven
was a piece of the dog and we could have it. Raising the lid of the
oven, we found the dog well baked, and having a fine savory smell. I cut
out a rib, smelling and tasting, found it to be good, and handed it over
to McCutchen, who, after smelling it some time, tasted it and pronounced
it very good dog. We partook of Curtis' dog. Mrs. Curtis immediately
commenced making bread, and in a short time had supper for all.

"At the lower end of the valley, where we entered, the snow was eighteen
inches in depth, and when we arrived at the tent, it was two feet.
Curtis stated that his oxen had taken the back track, and that he had
followed them by the trail through the snow. In the morning, before
leaving, Mrs. Curtis got us to promise to take them into the settlement
when on our return with the women and children. Before leaving, we gave
them flour and beef sufficient to keep them until our return, expecting
to do so in a few days."

"We started, following the trail made by the oxen, and camped a number
of miles up the mountain. In the night, hearing some of the horses going
down the trail, we went to where the Indians had lain down, and found
them gone. McCutchen mounted his horse and rode down to Curtis' camp,
and found that the Indians had been there, stopped and warmed
themselves, and then started down the valley. He returned to camp about
the middle of the night.

"Next morning we started, still on the trail of the oxen, but
unfortunately, the trail turned off to the left from our direction. We
proceeded on, the snow deepening rapidly, our horses struggling to get
through; we pushed them on until they would rear upon their hind feet to
breast the snow, and when they would alight they would sink in it until
nothing was seen of them but the nose and a portion of the head. Here we
found that it was utterly impossible to proceed further with the horses.
Leaving them, we proceeded further on foot, thinking that we could get
in to the people, but found that impossible, the snow being soft and
deep."

"I may here state that neither of us knew anything about snow-shoes,
having always lived in a country where they never were used."

"With sorrowful hearts, we arrived that night at the camp of Mr. Curtis,
telling them to make their arrangements for leaving with us in the
morning. Securing our flour in the wagon of Mr. Curtis, so that we could
get it on our return, we packed one horse with articles belonging to Mr.
and Mrs. Curtis, and started down the valley to where the snow was
light, and where there was considerable underbrush, so that our famished
animals could browse, they not having eaten anything for several days."

"After packing Mr. Curtis' horse for him the next morning, we started;
in a short time, Mr. and Mrs. Curtis proceeded ahead, leaving the
pack-horse behind for us to drive, instead of his leading him; we having
our hands full in driving the loose ones, they scattering in all
directions. The pack turned on the horse. Mr. Curtis was requested to
return and help repack and lead his horse, but he paid no attention to
us. We stood this for some time; finally, McCutchen became angry,
started after him, determined to bring him back; when he got with him he
paid no attention to McCutchen's request to return; Mac becoming more
exasperated, hit him several times over the shoulders with his riatta.
This brought him to his senses. He said that if Mac would not kill him,
he would come back and take care of the pack animal, and he did."

"As soon as we arrived at Captain Sutter's, I made a statement of all
the circumstances attending our attempt to get into the mountains. He
was no way surprised at our defeat. I also gave the Captain the number
of head of cattle the company had when I left them. He made an estimate,
and stated that if the emigrants would kill the cattle, and place the
meat in the snow for preservation, there was no fear of starvation until
relief could reach them. He further stated that there were no
able-bodied men in that vicinity, all having gone down the country with
and after Fremont to fight the Mexicans. He advised me to proceed to
Yerba Buena, now San Francisco, and make my case known to the naval
officer in command."

"I left Captain Sutter's, by the way of San Jose, for San Francisco,
being unable to come by water. When I arrived at San Jose, I found the
San Francisco side of the bay was occupied by the Mexicans. Here I
remained, and was attached to a company of volunteers, commanded by
Captain Webber, until after the fight at Santa Clara."

"The road now being clear, I proceeded to San Francisco with a petition
from some of the prominent citizens of San Jose, asking the commander of
the navy to grant aid to enable me to return to the mountains."

It is proper, perhaps, to interrupt the narrative in the Rural Press for
the purpose of introducing the memorial referred to by Mr. Reed. The
copy of the original document was recently found among his papers by his
daughter, Patty Reed.

"To his Excellency, R. F. Stockton, Governor and Commander-in-Chief, by
sea and land, of the United States Territory of California: We, the
undersigned citizens and residents of the Territory of California, beg
leave respectfully to present to your Excellency the following memorial,
viz.: That, whereas, the last detachment of emigrants from the United
States to California have been unable, from unavoidable causes, to reach
the frontier settlements, and are now in the California mountains,
seventy-five or one hundred miles east from the Sacramento Valley,
surrounded by snow, most probably twenty feet deep, and being about
eighty souls in number, a large proportion of whom are women and
children, who must shortly be in a famishing condition from scarcity of
provisions, therefore, the undersigned most earnestly beseech your
Excellency to take into consideration the propriety of fitting out an
expedition to proceed on snowshoes immediately to the relief of the
sufferers. Your memorialists beg leave to subscribe themselves, very
respectfully, yours, etc."

"January, 1847."

The article in the Rural Press continues: "Arriving at San Francisco, I
presented my petition to Commodore Hull, also making a statement of the
condition of the people in the mountains as far as I knew, the number of
them, and what would be needed in provisions and help to get them out.
He made an estimate of the expense, and said that he would do anything
within reason to further the object, but was afraid that the department
at Washington would not sustain him if he made the general outfit. His
sympathy was that of a man and a gentleman.

"I also conferred with several of the citizens of Yerba Buena; their
advice was not to trouble the Commodore further; that they would call a
meeting of the citizens and see what could be done. At the meeting, the
situation of the people was made known, and committees were appointed to
collect money. Over a thousand dollars was raised in the town, and the
sailors of the fleet gave over three hundred dollars. At the meeting,
Midshipman Woodworth volunteered to go into the mountains. Commodore
Hull gave me authority to raise as many men, with horses, as would be
required. The citizens purchased all the supplies necessary for the
outfit, and placed them on board the schooner, for Hardy's Ranch, mouth
of Feather River. Midshipman Woodworth took charge of the schooner, and
was the financial agent of the government."

"I left in a boat for Napa by way of Sonoma, to procure men and horses,
and when I arrived at Mr. Gordon's, on Cache Creek, I had all the men
and horses needed. From here I proceeded to the mouth of Feather River
for the purpose of meeting Mr. Woodworth with the provisions. When we
reached the river the boat had not arrived. The water was very high in
the river, the tule lands being overflowed. From here I sent a man to a
point on the Sacramento River opposite Sutter's Fort, to obtain
information of the boat with our provisions; he returned and reported
the arrival of the boat at the Fort."

"Before leaving Yerba Buena, news came of a party of fifteen persons
having started from the emigrant encampment, and only seven getting to
Johnson's. I was here placed in a quandary - no boat to take us across
the river, and no provisions for our party to take into the mountains.
We camped a short distance back from the river, where we killed a number
of elk for the purpose of using the skins in covering a skeleton boat.
Early next morning we started for the river, and to our delight saw a
small schooner, belonging to Perry McCan, which had arrived during the
night. We immediately crossed, McCutchen and myself, to the opposite
bank of the river. Edward detained the lady at the queen's court,
and gave some scandal to the stricter clergy by shutting up Amaury
in Corfe castle. He had foiled the Welsh prince's game, but he had given
him a new grievance.

During these transactions negotiations had been proceeding between the
English court and Llewelyn. In November, 1274, Edward went to Shrewsbury
in the hope of receiving the prince, but he was delayed by illness,
and Llewelyn made this an excuse for non-appearance.

Next year the king journeyed to Chester with the same object, but his
mission was equally fruitless. Summons after summons was despatched
to the recalcitrant vassal. Llewelyn heeded them no more than requests
to pay up the arrears which he owed the English crown.

After two years of hesitation Edward lost all patience. Irritated to the
quick by Llewelyn's offer to perform homage in a border town on
conditions altogether impossible of acceptance, the king summoned a
council of magnates for November 12, 1276, and laid the whole case
before them. It was agreed that the king should go against Llewelyn
as a rebel and disturber of the peace; and the feudal levies were
summoned to meet at Worcester on June 24, 1277. As a preliminary to the
great effort, Warwick was sent to Chester, Roger Mortimer to Montgomery,
and Payne of Chaworth to Carmarthen.

All the available marcher forces and every trooper of the royal household
were despatched to enable them to operate during the winter and spring.
Their movements were brilliantly successful.

On the reappearance of its ancient lord, the middle march threw off the
yoke of Llewelyn and went back to its obedience to Mortimer. Griffith
ap Gwenwynwyn was restored to upper Powys; the sons of Griffith of
Bromfield cast off their allegiance to Llewelyn and were received back
as direct vassals of the king. A Tony was once more ruling in
Elvael, a Gifford in Llandovery, and a Bohun in Brecon. Rhys ap Meredith
yielded up Dynevor, and was content to be recognised as lord of the humbler
stronghold of Drysllwyn. Chaworth's bands conquered all Cardiganshire.
Thus the wider "principality" of Llewelyn was shattered at the first
assault, and when the decisive moment came, Llewelyn was thrown back upon
his hereditary clansmen of Gwynedd. Of all the acquisitions of the
treaty of Shrewsbury, the four cantreds alone still held for their
prince.[1]
[1] On the whole subject of this chapter Mr. J.E. Morris's _Welsh
Wars of Edward I._ throws a flood of new light, especially on the military
history, the organisation of the Edwardian army, and the political
condition of the march.

When the baronial levies mustered at Worcester, the work was already half
accomplished. Of the thousand lances that there assembled, small forces
were detached to help Mortimer in mid Wales and to reinforce the marcher
army in west Wales, which was now commanded by Edmund of Lancaster, the
king's brother. The mass of the troops followed Edward to Chester,
whence the main attack was to be made. Edward's plan of operations was
simplicity itself. He knew that the Welsh desired no pitched battle, and
he was indisposed to lose his soldiers in unnecessary conflict.
Swarms of workmen cleared a wide road through the dense forests of the
four cantreds. The route chosen was as near as possible to the
coast, where a strong fleet, mainly from the Cinque Ports, kept up
communications with the land forces. The advance was cautious and slow,
with long halts at Flint and at Rhuddlan, where hastily erected forts
secured the king's base and safe-guarded a possible retreat. By the
end of August the king was at Deganwy, and the four cantreds were
conquered. During all this time fresh forces were hurried up. Some
15,000 infantry, largely drawn from southern and central Wales,
swelled the king's host.

Llewelyn was closely shut up in the Snowdon country. His position was
safe enough from a direct assault, and his only fear was want
of provisions. He trusted, however, that supplies would come in
from Anglesea, whose rich cornfields were yellowing for the harvest.
But the fleet of the Cinque Ports cut off communications between
Anglesea and the mainland, and ferried over a strong detachment of Edward's
troops, which occupied the island. English harvest-men gathered
for Edward the crops of Welsh corn, and left Llewelyn to face the
beginnings of a mountain-winter without the means of feeding his
followers.

By September the real fight was over. Edward withdrew to Rhuddlan and
dismissed the greater part of his followers. Enough were left to block
the approaches to Snowdon, and Llewelyn, seeing no gain in further
delay, made his submission on November 9.

The treaty of Aberconway, which Edward dictated, reduced Llewelyn to the
position of a petty North Welsh chieftain, which he had held thirty
years before. He gave up the homage of the greater Welsh magnates, and
resigned all his former conquests. The four cantreds thus passed
away from his power, and even Anglesea was only allowed to him for
life and subject to a yearly tribute. He was compelled to do homage,
and ordered to pay a crushing indemnity, twice as much as the expenses
of the war.
But Edward was in a generous mood. After Llewelyn's personal submission
at Rhuddlan, the king remitted the indemnity and the rent for
Anglesea.
It was a boon to Llewelyn that the treacherous David received his
reward not' in Gwynedd itself but in Duffryn Clwyd and Rhuvoniog,
two of the four cantreds of the Perveddwlad.

Llewelyn's humiliation was completed by his enforced attendance at
Edward's Christmas court at Westminster. Next year, however, he received
a further sign of royal favour. He was allowed to marry Eleanor Montfort,
and Edward himself was present at their wedding. But on the morning
of the ceremony, Llewelyn was forced to make a promise not to entertain
the king's fugitives and outlaws.

The treaty of Aberconway left Edward free to revive in the rest of Wales
the policy which, when originally begun in 1254,[1] had, like a rising
flood, floated Llewelyn into his wider principality. The lords marchers
resumed their ancient limits. Princes like Griffith of Powys and Rhys
of Drysllwyn sank into a position which is indistinguishable from that
of their Anglo-Norman neighbours. David, in the vale of Clwyd had no
better prospects. The heirs of lower Powys were put under the
guardianship of Roger Mortimer's younger son, another Roger, who, on
the death of his wards by drowning, received possession of their
lands, and henceforth, as Roger Mortimer of Chirk, became a new marcher
baron. Meanwhile Edward busied himself with schemes for establishing
settled government in the conquered territories. To a man of his
training and temperament, this meant the establishment of English
law and administration. He could see no merits in the archaic
Welsh customs which regarded all crimes as capable of atonement by a
money payment, treated a wrecked ship as the lawful perquisite of the
local proprietor, and hardly distinguished legitimate from illegitimate
children in determining the descent of property. He convinced himself
that the land laws of Wales were already those of Anglo-Norman
feudalism. He subjected the cantreds of Rhos and Englefield to the
Cheshire county court, and breathed a new life into the decayed shire
organisation of Cardiganshire and Carmarthenshire.
Flint and Rhuddlan dominated the two former, Aberystwyth and Carmarthen
the latter. Round the king's castles grew up petty boroughs of English
traders, who would, it was believed, teach the Welsh to love commerce
and peaceful ways.

[1] See page 76.

For five years all seemed to go well, though underneath the apparent
calm a storm was gradually gathering. The Welsh of the ceded districts
bitterly resented the imposition of a strange yoke and complained that
the king had broken his promise to respect their laws. "Are the Welsh
worse than Jews?" was their cry, "and yet the king allows the Jews
to follow their own laws in England." But Edward coldly answered that,
though it would be a breach of his coronation oath to maintain customs
of Howel the Good, which were contrary to the Decalogue, he was willing
to listen to specific complaints. It was, however, a very difficult
matter to persuade Edward's bailiffs and agents to carry out his
commands, and many acts of oppression were wrought for which there
was no redress. Nobles like David and Rhys found their franchises
threatened by the encroachments of the neighbouring shire-courts.
Lesser Welshmen were liable to be robbed and insulted by the workmen
who were building Edward's castles, or by the soldiers who were
garrisoning them.

At last even the Welsh who had helped Edward to put down Llewelyn saw
that they had been preparing their own ruin, and turned to their
former enemy for the redress refused them at Westminster. David
himself made common cause with his brother, and the spirit of resistance
spread among the half-hearted Cymry of the south.
Edward's oppression did more than Llewelyn's triumphs to weld together
the Welsh clans into a single people. A rising was planned in the
strictest secrecy; and on the eve of Palm Sunday, March 21, 1282,
David swooped down on Hawarden, a weak castle in private hands,
and captured it.

Llewelyn promptly crossed the Conway and turned his arms against the
royal strongholds of Flint and Rhuddlan, which withstood him, though he
devastated the countryside in every direction. Meanwhile David hurried
south and found the local lords in Cardigan and the vale of Towy already
in arms. With their help he captured the castles of the upper Towy,
but lower down the river Rhys remained staunch to the king, whereupon
David hurried over the hills to Cardiganshire and took Aberystwyth.
North and south were in full revolt.

Edward, taken unawares, prepared to reassert his authority. Certain
faithful barons were "affectionately requested" to serve the king for
pay, and a fairly large army was gathered together, though the scattered
character of the rebellion necessitated its acting in small bands. Meanwhile
the military tenants and the Cinque Ports were summoned to join in an
attack on Llewelyn on the lines of the campaign of 1277.

Edward's task was more difficult than on the previous occasion. Though
Rhuddlan, not Chester as in 1277, had become his starting-point against
Gwynedd, he dared not advance so long as David threatened his left
flank from Denbigh, and the rising in the south was far more formidable
than that of five years before. A considerable part of the levies
had to be despatched to the help of Earl Gilbert of Gloucester, who was
charged with the reconquest of the vale of Towy. On June 17 as the earl's
soldiers were returning, laden with plunder, to their headquarters
at Dynevor, they were suddenly attacked by the Welsh at Llandilo, and
were driven back on their base. Gloucester hastily retreated to Carmarthen.
He was superseded by William of Valence, whose activity against the
Welsh had been quickened by the loss of his son at Llandilo. Llewelyn
then came south, and pressed the English so hard that for several weeks
nothing of moment was accomplished.

The advance against Gwynedd was delayed until the late summer.

Edward still tarried at Rhuddlan, with a host constantly varying in numbers,
for his soldiers had long overpassed the period of feudal service.
Every effort was made to bring fresh troops to the field, and Luke de Tany,
seneschal of Gascony, came upon the scene with a small levy of the
chivalry of Aquitaine. To Tany was assigned the task of conquering
Anglesey, but it was not until September that he was able to occupy the
island. In the same month a strenuous effort was made to
dislodge the hostile Welsh in the vale of Clwyd; the Earl of Lincoln at
last took Denbigh from David; Reginald Grey, justice of Chester,
captured Ruthin, higher up the valley, and Earl Warenne seized Bromfield
and Yale. Each noble fought for his own hand, and Edward was forced to
reward their services by immediately granting to them their conquests,
and thus created a new marcher interest which, later on, stood in
the way of an effective settlement.

But things were getting desperate, and it was well for Edward
that the security of his left flank at last enabled him to advance to
the Conway. Thereupon Llewelyn returned to Snowdon, where he was
joined by the homeless David. Meanwhile Tany, then master of Anglesey,
opened up communications with the coast of Arvon by a bridge of boats
over the Menai Straits. Winter was already at hand when Llewelyn and
his brother were at last shut up amidst the fastnesses of Snowdon.

Late in October Archbishop Peckham appeared on the scene. He had excommunicated
Llewelyn at the beginning of the war, but was still anxious to negotiate
a peace. Edward did his best to put him off, but Peckham's importunity
extorted from him a short truce, during which the primate visited
Snowdon, taking with him an offer of an ample estate in England if the
prince would surrender his patrimony. Llewelyn furnished Peckham with
long catalogues of grievances. He was quite willing to gain time
by discussing his wrongs.

Edward's army shared his irritation at Peckham's interference, and,
while the archbishop was still in Snowdon, a breach of the truce destroyed
any hopes of peace. On November 6 Tany led his troops over the bridge of
boats at low water and marched inland. But his operations were ill-planned,
and the Welsh came down from the hills and easily put him to flight.
Meanwhile the tide had risen and the flood cut off access to the
bridge over the Menai. In their panic the soldiers rushed into the
water rather than face the enemy. Many leading men were drowned, including
Tany himself, the author of the treachery.

Flushed with this success Llewelyn rejected Peckham's terms. In great
disgust the archbishop went back to England, bitterly denouncing the
Welsh. But defeat only strengthened the iron resolution of Edward. He
issued fresh summonses for men and money. Contrary to all precedent,
he determined to continue the campaign through the winter.

Llewelyn was probably ignorant of the perilous plight into which the king
had fallen. With the approach of bad weather he became afraid that
he would be starved out in Snowdon. Any risk was better than being
caught like a rat in a trap, and, fearing lest a cordon should be drawn
round the mountains, he made his way southwards, leaving David in command.
His enemy, Roger Mortimer, was just dead, and Mortimer's eldest son Edmund,
a youth brought up for the clerical profession, was not likely
to hold the middle marches with the same strong grasp as his
father. Thither accordingly Llewelyn made his way, hoping that on
his approach the tribesmen of the upper Wye, over whom he had ruled
so long, would abandon their English lord for their Cymric chieftain.

A force gathered round him, and he occupied a strong position on a
hill overlooking the river Yrvon, which flows into the right bank
of the Wye, just above Builth.

The right bank of
the Yrvon was held by the
English of Builth. But the only way
over the stream was
by Orewyn bridge, which
was held by a
detachment of the Welsh. Their
position seemed so secure that,
on December 11, Llewelyn
left his troops
to confer with
some of the local chieftains.
The English were, however, shown a
ford over the river; a band crossed in safety, and, taking the
defenders of Orewyn bridge in the rear, opened up the passage over
it to their comrades.

The English ascended the hill, their mail-clad squadrons interlaced with
archers, in order that the Welsh infantry might be assailed by
missiles before they were exposed to the shock of a cavalry charge. In
the absence of their leader, the Welsh were a helpless mass of sheep,
and were easily put to flight. Meanwhile Llewelyn, hearing the din of
battle, hurried back to direct his followers. On the way he was slain
by Stephen of Frankton, a Shropshire veteran of the Barons' War,
who fought under the banner of Roger l'Estrange. The discovery of
important papers on the body first told the conquerors the rank
of their victim.

Thus perished the able and strenuous chief, who had struggled so long
to win for himself in Wales a position similar to that occupied by the
King of Scots in the north. His death did not end, but it much simplified,
the struggle. The south and midland districts were entirely
subdued, and the interest of the war again shifted to the mountains of
Snowdon, where David strove to maintain himself as Prince of Wales. His
best chance lay in the exhaustion of his enemy, but Edward stuck grimly
to his task. His coffers were exhausted, and his army for the most
part went home. Yet Edward tarried at Rhuddlan for over six months,
dividing his energy between watching the Welsh and replenishing
his treasure and troops.

His treasurer, John Kirkby, wandered from shire to shire soliciting
voluntary contributions. Then in January, 1283, an anomalous parliament
was summoned, consisting mainly of ecclesiastics, knights of the shire,
and burgesses, and meeting in two divisions, at York and at
Northampton, according as the members came from the northern or
southern ecclesiastical provinces.

The grant of a thirtieth so little satisfied the king that he laid
violent hands on the crusading-tenth, which was deposited in the Temple.
Meanwhile the chivalry of Gascony and Ponthieu were tempted by
high wages to supply the void left by the retirement of the
English.

Early in 1283 a gallant force from beyond sea, among which figured the
Counts of Armagnac and Bigorre, reached Rhuddlan. After their
arrival the king took the offensive, crossed the Conway and transferred
his headquarters to the Cistercian abbey of Aberconway.

Fearful once more of being enclosed in the mountains, David sought a
new hiding-place among the heights of Cader Idris. He shifted his
quarters to the castle of Bere, hidden away in a remote valley sloping
down from the mountain to the sea. The unwearied Edward once more
issued summonses for a fresh campaign. David was at the extremity of
his resources. Before the new arrivals enabled Edward to move, William
of Valence marched up from the south, and in April forced Bere to
surrender. David fled before the siege began; but he was a fugitive
without an army, and the campaign was reduced to a weary tracking out
of the last little bands that still scorned to surrender.

In June David was betrayed by men of his own tongue, and Edward summoned
for Michaelmas at Shrewsbury a parliament whose chief business was the
trial of David. On October 3 the last Cymric Prince of Wales suffered
the ignominious doom of a traitor, a murderer, and a blasphemer. The
magnates then adjourned to the chancellor's neighbouring seat of
Acton Burnell, where the rejoicings incident to the king's visit to his
friend's new mansion were combined with passing the statute of
Merchants.

Edward's love of thoroughness made him linger in Wales to settle the
government of the newly won lands. His first care was to hold Snowdon
with the ring of fortresses which, in their ruin, still bear abiding
witness to the solidity of the conqueror's work. Round each castle arose
a new town, created as artificially as were the _bastides_ of Aquitaine,
within whose walls English traders and settlers were tempted by
high privileges to take up their abodes, and whose strictly military
character was emphasised by the general provision that the constable
of the castle was to be _ex officio_ the mayor of the municipality.

Chief among these was Aberconway, whose strategic importance Edward
understood so fully that he forced the Cistercian monks to take
up new quarters at Maenan, higher up the valley, in order that there
might be room for the castle and town which were henceforth to guard
the entrance to Snowdon. Equally important was the future capital of
Gwynedd, Carnarvon, where on April 25, 1284, a son was born to Edward and
Eleanor, who seventeen years later was to become the first English Prince
of Wales. Elsewhere fortresses of Welsh origin were rebuilt and
enlarged to complete the stone circuit round the mountains. Such were
Criccieth, the key of Lleyn; Dolwyddelen, which dominated the upper
Conway; and Harlech and Bere, the two strongholds that curbed the
mountaineers of Merioneth. In the south the same policy was carried
out. Alike in Gwynedd and in the vale of Towy, both in his castle building
and in his town foundations, Edward was simply carrying on the traditions
of earlier ages, and applying to his new lands those principles of
government which, since the Norman Conquest, had become the tradition of
the marcher lords. Even in his architectural schemes there was nothing
novel in Edward's policy. Gilbert of Gloucester at Caerphilly, and
Payne of Chaworth at Kidwelly, had already worked out the pattern
of "concentric" defences that were to find their fullest expression
in the new castles of the principality. In each of these strongholds an
adequate garrison of highly trained and well-paid troops kept the
Welsh in check.

The civil government of the Edwardian conquests was provided for by the
statute of Wales, issued on Mid-Lent Sunday, 1284, at Rhuddlan, Edward's
usual headquarters. It declared that the land of Wales, heretofore subject
to the crown in feudal right, was entirely transferred to the
king's dominion. To the whole of the annexed districts the English system
of shire government was extended, though such local customs as appealed
to Edward's sense of justice were suffered to be continued. Gwynedd
and its appurtenances were divided into the three shires of Anglesey,
Carnarvon, and Merioneth, and were collectively put under the
justice of Snowdon, whose seat was to be at Carnarvon, where courts
of chancery and exchequer for north Wales were set up.

The shires of Cardigan and Carmarthen were re-organised so as to include
the southern districts which had been subject to Llewelyn, or
to the Welsh lords who had fallen with him. These were put under the
justice of west Wales, whose chancery and exchequer were established
at Carmarthen.

It is significant that Edward prepared the way for making these
districts into shires by persuading his brother Edmund, to whom they had
been granted, to abandon his claims over them in return for ample
compensation elsewhere. Without this step the new shires would
only have been palatinates of the Glamorgan or Pembroke type, and
the creation of such franchises was directly contrary to Edward's
policy.
It was different in the vale of Clwyd, where it would have been
natural for Edward to have extended the shire system to the four
cantreds.
Military exigences had, however, already erected most of these lands
into new marcher lordships, and Edward was perforce content with
the union of some fragments of Rhos to the shire of Carnarvon, and
with joining together Englefield and some adjoining districts in
the new county of Flint.Miller used to relate an incident which occurred a
few days after she took charge of those unruly boys who had been in the
habit of managing the teacher and school to suit themselves. "I will
never forget," said Mr. Miller, "how Mrs. Dozier took her place at the
table that morning, tapped for order, and in a kind, but firm, tone
said: 'Young gentlemen and young ladies, as a teacher only, I can not
criticise the propriety of your writing notes to each other when out of
school; but as your teacher, with full authority in school, I desire and
request you neither to write nor send notes to any one during school
hours. I was surprised at your conduct yesterday, and should my wish be
disregarded in the future, will be obliged to chastise the offender.'
She called the first class, and school began in earnest. I looked at her
quiet face and diminutive form, and thought how easy it would be for me
to pick up two or three such little bodies as she, and set them outside
of the door! I wrote a note and threw it to the pupil in front of me,
just to try Mrs. Dozier. When the recitation was finished, she stepped
to the side of her table, and looked at me with such a grieved
expression on her face, then said: 'Mr. Miller, I regret that my eldest
scholar should be the first to violate my rule. Please step forward.' I
quailed beneath her eye. I marched up to where she stood. The stillness
of that room was oppressive. I held out my hand at the demand of that
little woman, and took the punishment I deserved, and returned to my
seat deeply humiliated, but fully determined to behave myself in the
future, and make the other boys do likewise. Well, she had no more
trouble while she was our teacher. Her pluck had won our admiration, and
her quiet dignity held our respect, and we soon ceased wondering at the
ease with which she overturned our plans and made us eager to adopt
hers; for no teacher ever taught on Sugar Creek who won the affections
or ruled pupils more easily or happily than she. We were expected to
come right up to the mark; but if we got into trouble, she was always
ready to help us out, and could do it in the quietest way imaginable."

She taught several young men the art of surveying, and had a wonderful
faculty of interesting her pupils in the study of botany. She sought by
creek and over plain for specimens with which to illustrate their
lessons. It was while engaged in this place that Mrs. Dozier met George
Donner, who at that time resided about two and a half miles from
Springfield field. Their acquaintance resulted in marriage. Her pupils
always called her their "little teacher," for she was but five feet in
height, and her usual weight ninety-six pounds. She had grayish-blue
eyes, brown hair, and a face full of character and intelligence. She was
gifted with fine conversational powers, and was an excellent reader. Her
voice would hold in perfect silence, for hours, the circle of neighbors
and friends who would assemble during the long winter evenings to hear
her read. Even those who did not fail to criticise her ignorance of farm
and dairy work, were often charmed by her voice and absence of display;
for while her dress was always of rich material, it was remarkable for
its Quaker simplicity.

Mr. Francis says: "Mrs. George Donner was a perfect type of an eastern
lady, kind, sociable, and exemplary, ever ready to assist neighbors, and
even the stranger in distress. Whenever she could spare time, she
wielded a ready pen on various topics. She frequently contributed gems
in prose and poetry to the columns of the journal, that awakened an
interest among its readers to know their author. Herself and husband
were faithful members of the German Prairie Christian Church, situated a
little north of their residence. Here they lived happily, and highly
respected by all who knew them, until the spring of 1846, when they
started for California."

Having said this much of the Donners, and especially of the noble woman
who refused to leave her suffering husband, let us glance at the parting
scenes at Alder Creek. It had been determined that the two eldest
daughters of George Donner should accompany Captain Tucker's party.
George Donner, Jr., and William Hook, two of Jacob Donner's Sons, Mrs.
Wolfinger, and Noah James were also to join the company. This made six
from the Donner tents. Mrs. Elizabeth Donner was quite able to have
crossed the mountains, but preferred to remain with her two little
children, Lewis and Samuel, until another and larger relief party should
arrive. These two boys were not large enough to walk, Mrs. Donner was
not strong enough to carry them, and the members of Captain Tucker's
party had already agreed to take as many little ones as they could
carry.

Leanna C. Donner, now Mrs. John App, of Jamestown, Tuolumne County,
Cal., gives a vivid description of the trip from George Donner's tent to
the cabins at Donner Lake Miss Rebecca E. App, acting as her mother's
amanuensis, writes:

"Mother says: Never shall I forget the day when my sister Elitha and
myself left our tent. Elitha was strong and in good health, while I was
so poor and emaciated that I could scarcely walk. All we took with us
were the clothes on our backs and one thin blanket, fastened with a
string around our necks, answering the purpose of a shawl in the
day-time, and which was all we had to cover us at night. We started
early in the morning, and many a good cry I had before we reached the
cabins, a distance of about eight miles. Many a time I sat down in the
snow to die, and would have perished there if my sister had not urged me
on, saying, 'The cabins are just over the hill.' Passing over the hill,
and not seeing the cabins, I would give up, again sit down and have
another cry, but my sister continued to help and encourage me until I
saw the smoke rising from the cabins; then I took courage, and moved
along as fast as I could. When we reached the Graves cabin it was all I
could do to step down the snow-steps into the cabin. Such pain and
misery as I endured that day is beyond description."

In Patrick Breen's diary are found the following entries, which allude
to Captain Tucker's relief party:

"Feb. 19. Froze hard last night. Seven men arrived from California
yesterday with provisions, but left the greater part on the way. To-day
it is clear and warm for this region; some of the men have gone to
Donner's camp; they will start back on Monday."

"Feb. 22. The Californians started this morning, twenty-three in number,
some in a very weak state. Mrs. Keseberg started with them, and left
Keseberg here, unable to go. Buried Pike's child this morning in the
snow; died two days ago."

Poor little Catherine Pike lingered until this time! It will be
remembered that this little nursing babe had nothing to eat except a
little coarse flour mixed in snow water. Its mother crossed the
mountains with the "Forlorn Hope," and from the sixteenth of December to
the twentieth of February it lived upon the miserable gruel made from
unbolted flour. How it makes the heart ache to think of this little
sufferer, wasting away, moaning with hunger, and sobbing for something
to eat. The teaspoonful of snow water would contain only a few particles
of the flour, yet how eagerly the dying child would reach for the
pitiful food. The tiny hands grew thinner, the sad, pleading eyes sank
deeper in their fleshless sockets, the face became hollow, and the wee
voice became fainter, yet, day after day, little Catherine Pike
continued to breathe, up to the very arrival of the relief party.

Patrick Breen says twenty-three started across the mountains. Their
names were: Mrs. Margaret W. Reed and her children - Virginia E. Reed,
Patty Reed, Thomas Reed, and James F. Reed, Jr.; Elitha C. Donner,
Leanna C. Donner, Wm. Hook, and George Donner, Jr.; Wm. G. Murphy, Mary
M. Murphy, and Naomi L. Pike; Wm. C. Graves, Eleanor Graves, and Lovina
Graves; Mrs. Phillipine Keseberg, and Ada Keseberg; Edward J. and Simon
P. Breen, Eliza Williams, John Denton, Noah James, and Mrs. Wolfinger.

In starting from the camps at Donner Lake, Mrs. Keseberg's child and
Naomi L. Pike were carried by the relief party. In a beautiful letter
received from Naomi L. Pike (now Mrs. Schenck, of the Dalles, Oregon),
she says: "I owe my life to the kind heart of John Rhodes, whose
sympathies were aroused for my mother. He felt that she was deserving of
some relic of all she had left behind when she started with the first
party in search of relief, and he carried me to her in a blanket." We
have before spoken of this noble man's bravery in bearing the news of
the condition of the "Forlorn Hope" and of the Donner Party to Sutter's
Fort. Here we find him again exhibiting the nobility of his nature by
saving this little girl from starvation by carrying her on his back over
forty miles of wintry snow.

Before the party had proceeded two miles, a most sad occurrence took
place. It became evident that Patty and Thomas Reed were unable to stand
the fatigue of the journey. Already they exhibited signs of great
weakness and weariness, and it was not safe to allow them to proceed.
Mr. Aquila Glover informed Mrs. Reed that it was necessary that these
two children go back. Who can portray the emotions of this fond mother?
What power of language can indicate the struggle which took place in the
minds of this stricken family? Mr. Glover promised to return as soon as
he arrived at Bear Valley, and himself bring Patty and Thomas over the
mountains. This promise, however, was but a slight consolation for the
agonized mother or weeping children, until finally a hopeful thought
occurred to Mrs. Reed. She turned suddenly to Mr. Glover, and asked,
"Are you a Mason?' He replied, "I am." "Do you promise me," she said,
"upon the word of a Mason, that when you arrive at Bear Valley, you will
come back and get my children?" Mr. Glover made the promise, and the
children were by him taken back to the cabins. The mother had
remembered, in this gloomiest moment of life, that the father of her
little ones was a Mason, and that he deeply reverenced the order. If her
children must be left behind in the terrible snows, she would trust the
promise of this Mason to return and save them. It was a beautiful trust
in a secret order by a Mason's wife in deep distress.

Rebecca E. App, writing for her mother, gives a vivid description of
this journey across the summits, from which is taken the following brief
extract:

"It was a bright Sunday morning when we left the cabins. Some were in
good health, while others were so poor and emaciated that they could
scarcely walk. I was one of the weakest in the party, and not one in the
train thought I would get to the top of the first hill. We were a sad
spectacle to look upon as we left the cabins. We marched along in single
file, the leader wearing snow-shoes, and the others following after, all
stepping in the leader's tracks. I think my sister and myself were about
the rear of the train, as the strongest were put in front. My sister
Elitha and I were alone with strangers, as it were, having neither
father, mother, nor brothers, to give us a helping hand or a word of
courage to cheer us onward. We were placed on short allowance of food
from the start, and each day this allowance was cut shorter and shorter,
until we received each for our evening and morning meal two small pieces
of jerked beef, about the size of the index finger of the hand. Finally,
the last ration was issued in the evening. This was intended for that
evening and the next morning, but I was so famished I could not resist
the temptation to eat all I had - the two meals at one time. Next
morning, of course, I had nothing for breakfast. Now occurred an
incident which I shall never forget. While I sat looking at the others
eating their morsels of meat, which were more precious than gold or
diamonds, my sister saw my distress, and divided her piece with me. How
long we went without food after that, I do not know. I think we were
near the first station."


Chapter XIII.


Death of Ada Keseberg
Denton Discovering Gold
A Poem Composed While Dying
The Caches of Provisions Robbed by Fishers
The Sequel to the Reed-Snyder Tragedy
Death from Over-eating
The Agony of Frozen Feet
An Interrupted Prayer
Stanton, after Death, Guides the Relief Party
The Second Relief Party Arrives
A Solitary Indian
Patty Reed and her Father
Starving Children Lying in Bed
Mrs. Graves' Money Still Buried at Donner Lake.


Peasin P. Tucker's relief party had twenty-one emigrants with them after
Patty and Thomas Reed returned to the desolate cabins. On the evening of
the first day, one of the twenty-one died. It was the baby child of
Lewis Keseberg. The mother had fairly worshiped her girl. They buried
the little one in the snow. It was all they could do for the pallid form
of the starved little girl. Mrs. Keseberg was heart-broken over her
baby's death. At the very outset she had offered everything she
possessed - twenty-five dollars and a gold watch-to any one who would
carry her child over the mountains. After the starved band resumed their
weary march next morning, it is doubtful if many thought of the niche
hollowed out of the white snow, or of the pulseless heart laid therein.
Death had become fearfully common, and his victims were little heeded by
the perishing company. The young German mother, however, was
inconsolable. Her only boy had starved to death at the cabins, and now
she was childless.

The next day the company reached Summit Valley. An incident of this
day's travel illustrates the exhausted condition of the members of the
Donner Party. John Denton, an Englishman, was missed when camp was
pitched, and John Rhodes returned and found him fast asleep upon the
snow. He had become so weary that he yielded to a slumber that would
soon have proven fatal. With much labor and exertion he was aroused and
brought to camp. Denton appreciated the kindness, but at the same time
declared that it would be impossible for him to travel another day. Sure
enough, after journeying a little way on the following morning, his
strength utterly gave way. His companions built a fire for him, gave him
such food as they were able, and at his earnest request continued their
sorrowful march. If another relief came soon, he would, perhaps, be
rescued. Denton was well educated and of good family, was a gunsmith by
trade, and was skilled in metals. It is related, that while in the Reed
cabin, he discovered in the earth, ashes, and burnt stones in the
fireplace, some small pieces of yellowish metal, which he declared to be
gold. These he made into a small lump, which he carefully preserved
until he left the lake, and it was doubtless lost on the mountains at
his death. This was in the spring of 1847, before the discovery of gold
in California. The strange little metallic lump was exhibited to several
who are yet living, and who think there is reason for believing it was
really gold. A few years before the construction of the Central Pacific,
Knoxville, about ten miles south of Donner Lake, and Elizabethtown, some
six miles from Truckee, were famous mining camps. Gold never has been
found on the very shore of Donner Lake, but should the discovery be
made, and especially should gold be found in the rocks or earth near the
Reed cabin, there would be reason to believe that this poor unfortunate
man was in reality the first discoverer of the precious metal in
California. Left alone in the snow-mantled forests of the Sierra, what
were this man's emotions? In the California Star of 1847, a bound volume
of which is in the State Library in Sacramento, appears the following
poem. The second relief party found it written on the leaf of a
memorandum book by the side of Denton's lifeless body. The pencil with
which it was written lay also by the side of the unfortunate man. Ere
the lethargy of death stole away his senses, John Denton's thoughts had
been of his boyhood's beautiful home in merry England. These thoughts
were woven into verse. Are they not strangely pathetic and beautiful?
Judge Thornton, in 1849, published them with the following prefatory
words: "When the circumstances are considered in connection with the
calamities in which the unhappy Denton was involved, the whole compass
of American and English poetry may be challenged to furnish a more
exquisitely beautiful, a more touching and pathetic piece. Simple and
intimate to the last degree, yet coming from the heart, it goes to the
heart. Its lines are the last plaintive notes which wintry winds have
wakened from an Lolian harp, the strings of which rude hands have
sundered. Bring before your mind the picture of an amiable young man who
has wandered far from the paternal roof, is stricken by famine, and left
by his almost equally unhappy companions to perish among the terrible
snows of the great Sierra Nevada. He knows that his last, most solemn
hour is near. Reason still maintains her empire, and memory, faithful to
the last, performs her functions. On every side extends a boundless
waste of trackless snow. He reclines against a bank of it, to rise no
more, and busy memory brings before him a thousand images of past beauty
and pleasure, and of scenes he will never revisit. A mother's image
presents itself to his mind, tender recollections crowd upon his heart,
and the scenes of his boyhood and youth pass in review before him with
an unwonted vividness. The hymns of praise and thanksgiving that in
harmony swelled from the domestic circle around the family altar are
remembered, and soothe the sorrows of the dying man, and finally, just
before he expires, he writes:"

"Oh! after many roving years,
How sweet it is to come
Back to the dwelling-place of youth,
Our first and dearest home;
To turn away our wearied eyes
From proud ambition's towers,
And wander in those summer fields,
The scenes of boyhood's hours."

"But I am changed since last I gazed
Upon that tranquil scene,
And sat beneath the old witch elm
That shades the village green;
And watched my boat upon the brook
It was a regal galley
And sighed not for a joy on earth,
Beyond the happy valley."

"I wish I could once more recall
That bright and blissful joy,
And summon to my weary heart -
The feelings of a boy.
But now on scenes of past delight
I look, and feel no pleasure,
As misers on the bed of death
Gaze coldly on their treasure."

When Captain Tucker's relief party were going to Donner Lake, they left
a portion of their provisions in Summit Valley, tied up in a tree. They
had found these provisions difficult to carry, and besides, it was best
to have something provided for their return, in case the famished
emigrants ate all they carried over the summit. It was indeed true that
all was eaten which they carried over. All the scanty allowances were,
one after another, consumed. When the relief party, and those they were
rescuing, reached the place where the provisions had been cached, they
were in great need of the reserve store which they expected to find. To
their horror and dismay, they found that wild animals had gnawed the
ropes by which the cache had been suspended, and had destroyed every
vestige of these provisions! Death stared them in the face, and the
strongest men trembled at the prospect.

Here comes the sequel to the Reed-Snyder tragedy. Had it not been for
Reed's banishment, there is every reason to believe that these people
would have died for want of food. It will be remembered, however, that
the relief party organized by Reed was only a few days behind Captain
Tucker's. On the twenty-seventh of February, just as the horror and
despair of their dreadful situation began to be realized, Tucker, and
those with him, were relieved by the second relief party.

In order to better understand these events, let us return and follow the
motions of Reed and the members of the second relief party. In the
article quoted in a former chapter from the Rural Press, Reed traced
their progress as far as Johnson's ranch. Patty Reed (Mrs. Frank Lewis)
has in her possession the original diary kept by her father during this
journey. This diary shows that on the very morning Capt. Tucker, and the
company with him, left Donner Lake to return to the valleys, Reed and
the second relief party started from Johnson's ranch to go to Donner
Lake. All that subsequently occurred, is briefly and pointedly narrated
in the diary.

"February 22, 1847. All last night I kept fire under the beef which I
had drying on the scaffolds, and Johnson's Indians were grinding flour
in a small hand-mill. By sunrise this morning I had about two hundred
pounds of beef dried and placed in bags. We packed our horses and
started with our supplies. Including the meat Greenwood had dried, we
had seven hundred pounds of flour, and five beeves. Mr. Greenwood had
three men, including himself. Traveled this day about ten miles."

"Feb. 23. Left camp early this morning, and pushed ahead, but camped
early on account of grass. To-morrow we will reach the snow."

"Feb. 24. Encamped at Mule Springs this evening. Made arrangements to
take to the snow in the morning, having left in camp our saddles,
bridles, etc."

"Feb. 25. Started with eleven horses and mules lightly packed, each
having about eighty pounds. Traveled two miles, and left one mule and
his pack. Made to-day, with hard labor for the horses, in the snow,
about six miles. Our start was late."

"Feb. 26. Left our encampment, Cady thinking the snow would bear the
horses. Proceeded two hundred yards with difficulty, when we were
compelled to unpack the horses and take the provisions on our backs.
Usually the men had kept in the best of spirits, but here, for a few
moments, there was silence. When the packs were ready to be strung upon
their backs, however, the hilarity and good feeling again commenced.
Made the head of Bear Valley, a distance of fifteen miles. We met in the
valley, about three miles below the camp, Messrs. Glover and Rhodes,
belonging to the party that went to the lake. They informed me they had
started with twenty-one persons, two of whom had died, John Denton, of
Springfield, Ill., and a child of Mr. and Mrs. Keseberg. Mr. Glover sent
two men back to the party with fresh provisions. They are in a starving
condition, and all have nearly given out. I have lightened our packs
with a sufficient quantity of provisions to do the people when they
shall arrive at this place.

"Feb. 27. I sent back two men to our camp of night before last, to bring
forward provisions. They will return to-morrow. I also left one man to
prepare for the people who were expected today. Left camp on a fine,
hard snow, and proceeded about four miles, when we met the poor,
unfortunate, starved people. As I met them scattered along the
snowtrail, I distributed some bread that I had baked last night. I gave
in small quantities to each. Here I met my wife and two of my little
children. Two of my children are still in the mountains. I can not
describe the deathlike look all these people had. 'Bread!' 'Bread!'
'Bread!' 'Bread!' was the begging cry of every child and grown person. I
gave all I dared to them, and set out for the scene of desolation at the
lake. I am now camped within twenty-five miles of the place, which I
hope to reach by traveling to-night and tomorrow. We had to camp early
this evening, on account of the softness of the snow, the men sinking in
to their waists, The party who passed us to-day were overjoyed when we
told them there was plenty of provision at camp. I made a cache, to-day,
after we had traveled about twelve miles, and encamped three miles
further eastward, on the Yuba. Snow about fifteen feet deep."

The meeting between Reed and his family can better be imagined than
described. For months they had been separated. While the father was
battling with fate in endeavoring to reach California and return with
assistance, the mother had been using every exertion to obtain food for
her starving children. Now they met in the mountains, in the deep snows,
amid pathless forests, at a time when the mother and children, and all
with them, were out of provisions and ready to perish.

Meantime, the first relief; with their little company, now reduced to
nineteen, passed forward toward the settlements. At Bear Valley, another
cache of provisions had been made, and this was found unmolested.
Camping at this place, the utmost precaution was taken to prevent the
poor starved people from overeating. After a sufficient quantity of food
had been distributed, the remainder of the provisions was hung up in a
tree. Of course, the small portion distributed to each did not satisfy
the cravings of hunger. Some time during the night, Wm. Hook quietly
crept to the tree, climbed up to the food, and ate until his hunger was
appeased. Poor boy, it was a fatal act. Toward morning it was discovered
that he was dying. All that the company could do to relieve his
sufferings was done, but it was of no avail. Finding that the poor boy
was past relief; most of the emigrants moved on toward the settlements.
Wm. G. Murphy's feet had been badly frozen, and he was suffering such
excruciating agony that he could not travel and keep up with the others.
At his request, his sister Mary had cut his shoes open, in order to get
them off; and his feet thereupon swelled up as if they had been scalded.
Because he could not walk, the company left him with William Hook. A
camp-keeper also remained. This boy's death is thus described by Mr.
Murphy, who writes:

"William Hook went out on the snow and rested on his knees and elbows.
The camp-keeper called to him to come in. He then told me to make him
come into camp. I went and put my hand on him, speaking his name, and he
fell over, being already dead. He did not die in great agony, as is
usually alleged. No groan, nor signs of dying, were manifested to us.
The camp-keeper and myself took the biscuits and jerked beef from his
pockets, and buried him just barely under the ground, near a tree which
had been fired, and from around which the snow had melted." Those who
were in the company thought Wm. G. Murphy could not possibly walk, but
when all had gone, and Hook was dead, and no alternative remained but to
walk or die, he did walk. It took him two days to go barefooted over the
snow to Mule Springs, a journey which the others had made in one day.
The agony which he endured during that trip can better be imagined than
described. Nothing but an indomitable will could have sustained him
during those two days.

All the members of this relief party suffered greatly, and several came
near perishing. Little James F. Reed, Jr., was too small to step in the
tracks made by the older members of the party. In order to travel with
the rest he had to partly use his knees in walking. When one foot was in
a track he would place the other knee on the untrodden snow, and was
thus enabled to put his foot in the next track. John Denton was left
with a good fire, and when last seen was reclining smoking, on a bed of
freshly gathered pine boughs. He looked so comfortable that the little
timid boy James begged hard to be allowed to remain with him. Mrs. Reed
had hard work to coax him to come. Among other things, she promised that
when he reached California he should have a horse "all for himself," and
that he should never have to walk any more. Private wars raged from end
to end of south Britain. On the upper Severn, Griffith of Welshpool, the
younger son of Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn, laid regular siege to
Powys castle, the stronghold of John Charlton, his niece's husband
and his rival for the lordship of upper Powys.

As Charlton was a courtier, Griffith attached himself to the ordainers.
After Bannockburn, the captivity of Hereford, the lord of Brecon,
and the death without heirs of Gloucester, the lord of Glamorgan, removed
the strongest restraints on the men of south Wales.
The royal warden of Glamorgan, Payne of Turberville, displaced Gloucester's
old officers. One of the sufferers was Llewelyn Bren, "a great and
powerful Welshman in those parts," who had held high office under
Earl Gilbert. In 1315 Llewelyn, after seeking justice in vain at the
king's court, rose in revolt against Turberville. He gathered the Welshmen
on the hills, burst upon Caerphilly, while the constable was holding
a court outside the castle, took the outer ward by surprise and
burnt it to ashes.

There was fear lest this revolt should be the starting-point of a general
Welsh rising. Llewelyn's hill strongholds threatened Brecon on the north
and the vale of Glamorgan on the south; and Hereford, then released from
his Scottish captivity, was entrusted with the suppression of the
revolt. Before long all the lords of the march joined Hereford in
stamping out the movement. Among them were the two Roger Mortimers,
the Montagues and the Giffords, and Henry of Lancaster, Earl
Thomas's brother, and lord in his own right of Monmouth and Kidwelly.
Overwhelmed by such mighty opponents, Llewelyn surrendered to Hereford,
hoping thus to save his followers.

Lancaster himself suffered from the spirit of anarchy that was
abroad.
His own Lancashire vassals rose against his authority, under Adam Banaster,
a former member of his household. Adam belonged to an important Lancashire
family, which had long stood in close relations to Wales, and had
committed a homicide for which he despaired of pardon.

He now posed as the champion of the king against the earl, believing
that anything that caused trouble to Thomas would give no small
delight at court.

Lancaster showed more energy in upholding his own rights than in maintaining
the honour of England. He raised such an overwhelming force that Banaster,
unable to hold the field against him, shut himself up in his house.
His refuge was stormed and his head brought to Earl Thomas as a
trophy of victory. While Banaster was raiding Lancashire and Llewelyn
south Wales, the Scots were devastating the country as far south as
Furness, and Edward Bruce, King Robert's brother, was conquering Ireland.
There was little wonder that Edward Bruce hoped to cross over to Wales
when he had done his work in Ireland, or that the Welsh, buoyed up,
as in the last generation, by the prophesies of Merlin, believed that
the time was come when they would expel the Saxons, and win back the
empire of Britain.

Of much longer duration than the wars of Llewelyn Bren and Adam Banaster,
were the formidable disturbances which raged for many years at Bristol.
Fourteen Bristol magnates had long a preponderating influence in the
government of the town. The commons bitterly resented their superiority
and declared that every burgess should enjoy equal rights.

A royal inquiry was ordered, but the judges, bribed, as was believed,
by the fourteen, gave a decision which was unacceptable to the
commons.

Lord Badlesmere, warden of the castle, sided with the oligarchs, and
thus the whole authority of the state was brought to bear against the
popular party.

But it was an easy matter to resist the government of Edward II. The
commons took arms and a riot broke out in court. Twenty men were
killed in the disturbances, and the judges fled for their lives.

Eighty burgesses were proved by inquest at Gloucester to have been the
ringleaders. As they refused to appear to answer the charges, they
were outlawed. Indignation at Bristol then rose to such a height that the
fourteen fled in their turn, and for more than two years Bristol succeeded
in holding out against the royal mandate. At last, in 1316, the town was
regularly besieged by the Earl of Pembroke.
The castle was not within the burgesses' power, and its _petrariae_,
breaking down the walls and houses of the borough, compelled the townsmen
to surrender.

A few of the chief rebels were punished, but a pardon was issued to the
mass of the burgesses.

More dangerous than any of these troubles was the attack made by
Edward Bruce on the English power in Ireland.

That power had been on the wane during the last two generations.
Edward I. had formed schemes for the better administration of the
country, but little had come of them.

The English government in Dublin gradually lost such control as it had
possessed over the remoter parts of the island. The shire organisation,
set up in an earlier generation, became little more than nominal.

The constitutional movement of the thirteenth century extended to the
island, and the Irish parliament, then growing up out of the old council,
reflected in a blurred fashion the organisation of the English
parliament of the three estates. But royal lieutenants and councils,
shires and sheriffs, parliaments and justices had only the most superficial
influence on Irish life. Real authority was divided between the
Norman lords of the plain and the Celtic chieftains of the hills.
Each feudal lord hated his fellows, and bitter as were the feuds of
Fitzgeralds and Burghs, they were mild as compared with the rancorous
hereditary factions which divided the native septs from each other.
These divisions alone made it possible for the king's officers to
keep up some semblance of royal rule.

If they were seldom obeyed, the divisions in the enemies' camps prevented
any chance of their being overthrown. Thus the Irish went on living a
rude, turbulent life of perpetual purposeless war and bloodshed. Ireland
was a wilder, larger, more remote Welsh march, and the resemblance
was heightened by the fact that many of the Anglo-Norman principalities
were in the hands of great English or marcher families, and that the
Irish foot-soldier played only a less important part than the Welsh
archer and pikeman among the light-armed soldiers of the English
crown.

The easiest way to keep up a show of English government was to form an
alliance between the crown and some of the baronial houses. Richard de
Burgh, Earl of Ulster, the most powerful of the feudal lords of Ireland,
was the only one who at that period bore the title of earl. He had
long been interested in general English affairs, and his kinswomen had
intermarried into great British houses. One of his daughters married
Robert Bruce when he was Earl of Carrick, and another was more recently
wedded to Earl Gilbert of Gloucester. Despite the Bruce connexion, the
Earl of Ulster was still trusted by the English party, and the king
gave him the command of an Irish army which he had intended to
send against Scotland in 1314.

Richard was too busy fighting the Ulster clans of O'Donnell and O'Neil,
and too jealous of the Fitzgeralds, his feudal rivals, to throw his
heart into the hopeless task of gathering together the two nations and
many clans of Ireland into a single host. The death of Earl Gilbert at
Bannockburn broke his nearest tie with England, and the release of
Elizabeth Bruce in exchange for Hereford gave his daughter the actual
enjoyment of the throne of Scotland. His natural instincts as an Irishman
and as a baron were to restrain the power of his overlord. When the news
of Bruce's victory produced a great stir among the Irish clans, he stood
aside and let events take their course.

Though the Gael of the Scottish Highlands played little part at Bannockburn,
the Irish rejoiced at the Scots' success as that of their kinsmen.
"The Kings of the Scots," said the Irish Celts, "derive their origin
from our land. They speak our tongue and have our laws and customs."
However little true this was in fact, it was a good excuse for some
of the Irish clans to offer the throne of Ireland to the King of Scots.
Robert rejected the proposal for himself, but was willing to give his
able and adventurous brother Edward the chance of winning another crown
for his house. Edward, "who thought that Scotland was too little
for his brother and himself," cheerfully fell in with the scheme. On May
25, 1315, he landed near Carrickfergus and received a rapturous welcome
from the O'Neils, the greatest of the septs of the north-east.
Before long all Celtic Ulster flocked to his banners, and Edmund Butler,
then justice of Ireland, strove with little success to make head against
the Scottish invasion. The completeness of Bruce's union with the native
Irish gave him his best chance of attaining his object. Up to this
point the attitude of the Earl of Ulster had been most undecided. He at
last threw in his lot with the justiciar. When parties began to shape
themselves it was clear that "all the Irish of Ireland" were in
league with Bruce. The danger was that "a great part of the great lords
and lesser English folk" also joined the invader.
Conspicuous among these were the Lacys of Meath.

Edward Bruce showed energy and vigour.

He made his way southwards, and in September won a victory over the forces
of the Earl of Ulster and the justiciar at Dundalk, then in the south
of Ulster. After this he pushed into Meath and Leinster and was joined
by the O'Tooles and the other clans of the Wicklow mountains, while the
adhesion of Phelim O'Connor, King of Connaught, brought the whole of
the Celtic west into his alliance. The barons, however, took the alarm.
During the winter Butler contracted friendship with many of the Norman
colonists. From that time the struggle assumed the character of a war
between Celtic Ireland and feudal Ireland, the native clansmen and the
Anglo-Norman settlers. Thus, though Bruce and his wild allies found
it easy to make themselves masters of the open country, all the castles
and towns were closed to them and could only be won by long-continued
efforts. Before long, Butler drove them to the hills. Ere the winter
was over, Edward found it prudent to retire to Ulster.

During 1316 the struggle raged unceasingly.

Bruce was crowned King of Ireland, the O'Neil, it was said, having
abdicated his rights in his favour.

But the summer saw the utter defeat
of the O'Connors by the
justiciar at the bloody
battle of Athenry, where
King Phelim and
the noblest of his sept
perished. A
little later the
King of Scots came to the help of
his brother. With his aid, Edward was
able to reduce Carrickfergus, which
had hitherto defied his
efforts. Then the brothers led their
forces from one end of Ireland
to the other. Dublin
prepared for a
siege by burning
its suburbs and devastating
the country around.
But though the two Bruces
penetrated as far
as Limerick, they did not
capture a single castle or a walled
town.

They lost so many men during their winter campaign, that they were forced
in the spring to retire to Ulster. The hopeless disunion of both parties
in Ireland seemed likely to prolong the struggle indefinitely. The men
of Dublin and the Earl of Ulster were at feud with each other,
and the citizens captured the earl and shut him up in Dublin castle.
However little the earl could be trusted, this was a step likely
to throw all Ulster into the arms of the Bruces.

But a stronger justice of Ireland then superseded Edmund Butler. Roger
Mortimer of Wigmore, the mightiest baron of the Welsh march, and a
man of real ability, rare energy, extreme ruthlessness, and savage
cruelty, crossed over from Haverfordwest early in 1317 at the head of
a large force of marcher knights and men-at-arms, versed from their
youth up in the traditions of Celtic warfare. Mortimer set himself
to work to break up the ill-assorted coalition that supported Bruce. He
released the Earl of Ulster from his Dublin prison; he procured the
banishment of the heads of the house of Lacy; he won over some of the
Irish septs to his side; he stimulated the civil war which had devastated
Connaught since the fall of the O'Connors. Edward Bruce was once more
confined to Ulster, where he still struggled on bravely.
In the autumn of 1318 he led a foray southwards, and met his fate in a
skirmish near Dundalk on October 14, when his force was scattered in
confusion by John of Bermingham, one of the neighbouring lords. The four
quarters of the luckless King of Ireland were exposed in the four chief
towns of the island as a trophy of victory, and Bermingham was rewarded
by the new earldom of Louth.

Edward Bruce's enterprise ended with his death, and Ireland rapidly
settled down into its normal condition of impotent turbulence.

Though at first sight the invader utterly failed, yet he pricked the
bubble of the English power in Ireland. His gallant attempt at winning
the throne is the critical event in a long period of Irish history.
From the days of Henry III to the days of Edward Bruce, the lordship
of the English kings in Ireland was to some extent a reality. From 1315
to the reign of Henry VIII, the English dominion was little more than
a name as regards the greater part of Ireland.

No one attained success, in the years after Bannockburn,--neither
Banaster, nor Llewelyn Bren, nor the Bristol commons nor Edward
Bruce and his Irish allies. Before long, the incompetence of Lancaster
became as manifest as the incompetence of Edward II. Lancaster's failure
led to the dissolution of the baronial opposition into fiercely opposing
factions. Personal and territorial jealousies slowly undermined a unity
which had always been more apparent than real. The Earl of Pembroke had
never forgiven the treachery of Deddington. Though Warwick was dead,
Pembroke still pursued Lancaster with unrelenting hatred. No partisan of
prerogative, and an enemy of Edward's personal following, Earl Aymer
separated himself from his old associates and strove to form a middle
party between the faction of the king and the faction of Lancaster.

Warerine, coarse, turbulent, and vicious, at once violent and crafty, still
acted with him. The lord of Conisborough had long grudged the master of
Pontefract and Sandal his great position in Yorkshire. The natural
rivalries of neighbouring potentates were further emphasised by personal
animosity of the deadliest kind. Lancaster had long been at variance
with his wife, Alice Lacy. On May 9, 1317, the Countess of Lancaster
ran away from him, with the active help of Warenne and by the secret
contrivance of the king. Private war at once broke out between the two
earls. Lancaster was too strong for his enemy. Before winter had begun,
Conisborough and Warenne's other Yorkshire castles fell into his hands.
Lancaster's partisans even laid hold of the king's castle of Knaresborough,
while other Lancastrian bands occupied Alton castle in Staffordshire.

Intermittent hostilities continued until the summer of 1318. Twice Edward
himself went to the north, and on one occasion appeared in force outside
Pontefract.

But the more moderate of the baronage managed to prevent open hostilities
between the king and the earl. Lancaster was, as ever, fighting for
his own hand. His self-seeking narrowness gave Pembroke the chance
of winning for his middle party a preponderating authority.

Pembroke found more trustworthy allies than Warenne in Bartholomew,
Lord Badlesmere, the sometime instigator of the Bristol troubles, and a
bitter opponent of Lancaster, and in Roger of Amory, the husband of one
of the three co-heiresses who now divided the Gloucester inheritance.
Edward, who had profited by the divisions of his enemies to revive the
court party, formed a coalition between his friends and the followers
of Pembroke. All lovers of order, of moderation, and of the supremacy
of the law necessarily made common cause with them. Thus it followed
that the same machinery, which Lancaster a few years earlier had turned
against the king, was now turned against him. An additional motive to
bring peaceable Englishmen into line was found in the capture of Berwick
by Bruce in April, 1318.

After this negotiations for peace began. The king and Lancaster treated
as two independent princes.
Lancaster was no longer supported by any prominent earl, and even
his clerical friends were falling from him. Ordainers as jealous as
Arundel, royalists as fierce as Mortimer, served along with trimmers
like Pembroke and Badlesmere, in acting as mediators. Lancaster could
no more resist than Edward could in 1312. On August 9 he accepted at Leek,
in Staffordshire, the conditions drawn up for him.

The treaty of Leek marks the triumph of the middle party and the
removal of Lancaster from the first place in the royal council. A
pardon was granted to him and his followers, but Thomas gained
little else by the compact. Pembroke and his friends showed themselves
as jealous of Edward as ever the ordainers had been.Clark was surprised
to find the fresh track of the bear cub, which had recrossed Alder Creek
and ascended the mountain behind the tents. It was doubtless the same
one whose mother he had wounded. The mother had probably died, and after
the storm the cub had returned. Mr. Clark at once followed it, tracking
it far up the mountain side to a cliff of rocks, and losing the trail at
the mouth of a small, dark cave. He says that all hope deserted him when
he found that the cub had gone into the cave. He sat down upon the snow
in utter despair. It was useless to return to the tents without food; he
might as well perish upon the mountain side. After reflecting for some
time upon the gloomy situation, he concluded to fire his gun into the
cave, and see if the report might not frighten out the cub. He placed
the muzzle of the gun as far down into the cave as he could, and fired.
When the hollow reverberation died away among the cliffs, no sound
disturbed the brooding silence. The experiment had failed. He seriously
meditated whether he could not watch the cave day and night until the
cub should be driven out by starvation. But suddenly a new idea occurred
to him. Judging from the track, and from the size of the cub he had
seen, Mr. Clark concluded that it was possible he might be able to enter
the cave and kill the cub in a hand-to-hand fight. It was a desperate
undertaking, but it was preferable to death from starvation. He
approached the narrow opening, and tried again to peer into the cave and
ascertain its depth. As he was thus engaged the snow suddenly gave way,
and he was precipitated bodily into the cave. He partly fell, partly
slid to the very bottom of the hole in the rocks. In endeavoring to
regain an erect posture, his hand struck against some furry animal.
Instinctively recoiling, he waited for a moment to see what it would do.
Coming from the dazzling sunlight into the darkness, he could see
nothing whatever. Presently he put out his foot and again touched the
animal. Finding that it did not move, he seized hold of it and found
that it was the cub-dead! His random shot had pierced its brain, and it
had died without a struggle. The cave or opening in the rocks was not
very deep, and after a long time he succeeded in dragging his prize to
the surface.

There was food in the Donner tents from this time forward. It came too
late, however, to save Mrs. Elizabeth Donner or her son Samuel. This
mother was quite able to have crossed the mountains with either of the
two relief parties; but, as Mrs. E. P. Houghton writes: "Her little boys
were too young to walk through the deep snows, she was not able to carry
them, and the relief parties were too small to meet such emergencies.
She stayed with them, hoping some way would be provided for their
rescue. Grief, hunger, and disappointed hopes crushed her spirit, and so
debilitated her that death came before the required help reached her or
her children. For some days before her death she was so weak that Mrs.
George Donner and the others had to feed her as if she had been a child.
At last, one evening, as the sun went down, she closed her eyes and
awoke no more. Her life had been sacrificed for her children. Could
words be framed to express a more fitting tribute to her memory! Does
not the simple story of this mother's love wreathe a chaplet of glory
about her brow far holier than could be fashioned by human hands!

Samuel Donner lingered but a few days longer. Despite the tenderest care
and attention, he grew weaker day by day, until he slept by the side of
his mother and brother in their snowy grave.

All this time Mrs. Tamsen Donner was tortured with fear and dread, lest
her children had perished in the dreadful storm on the summits. At last
Clark yielded to her importunities, and decided to visit the cabins at
Donner Lake, and see if there was any news from beyond the Sierra. Clark
found the children at Keseberg's cabin, and witnessed such scenes of
horror and suffering that he determined at once to attempt to reach
California. Returning to Alder Creek, he told Mrs. Donner of the
situation of her children, and says he informed her that he believed
their lives were in danger of a death more violent than starvation. He
informed her of his resolution to leave the mountains, and taking a
portion of the little meat that was left, he at once started upon his
journey. John Baptiste accompanied him.

The cub would have weighed about seventy pounds when killed; and now
that its flesh was nearly gone, there was really very little hope for
any one unless relief came speedily. In attempting to make their way
across the mountains, Clark and Baptiste did the wisest thing possible,
yet they well knew that they would perish by the way unless they met
relief.

Mrs. Tamsen Donner did not dare to leave her husband alone during the
night, but told Clark and Baptiste that she should endeavor to make the
journey to the cabins on the following day. It was a long, weary walk
over the pitiless snow, but she had before her yearning eyes not only
the picture of her starving children, but the fear that they were in
danger of a more cruel death than starvation.


Chapter XV.


A Mountain Storm
Provisions Exhausted
Battling the Storm-Fiends
Black Despair
Icy Coldness
A Picture of Desolation
The Sleep of Death
A Piteous Farewell
Falling into the Firewell
Isaac Donner's Death
Living upon Snow-water
Excruciating Pain
A Vision of Angels
"Patty is Dying"
The Thumb of a Mitten
A Child's Treasures
The "Dolly" of the Donner Party.


On the evening of the second day after leaving Donner Lake, Reed's party
and the little band of famished emigrants found themselves in a cold,
bleak, uncomfortable hollow, somewhere near the lower end of Summit
Valley. Here the storm broke in all its fury upon the doomed company. In
addition to the cold, sleet-like snow, a fierce, penetrating wind seemed
to freeze the very marrow in their bones. The relief party had urged the
tired, hungry, enfeebled emigrants forward at the greatest possible
speed all day, in order to get as near the settlements as they could
before the storm should burst upon them. Besides, their provisions were
exhausted, and they were anxious to reach certain caches of supplies
which they had made while going to the cabins. Fearing that the storm
would prevent the party from reaching these caches, Mr. Reed sent Joseph
Jondro, Matthew Dofar, and Hiram Turner forward to the first cache, with
instructions to get the provisions and return to the suffering
emigrants. That very night the storm came, and the three men had not
been heard from.

The camp was in a most inhospitable spot. Exposed to the fury of the
wind and storm, shelterless, supperless, overwhelmed with
discouragements, the entire party sank down exhausted upon the snow. The
entire party? No! There was one man who never ceased to work. When a
fire had been kindled, and nearly every one had given up, this one man,
unaided, continued to strive to erect some sort of shelter to protect
the defenseless women and children. Planting large pine boughs in the
snow, he banked up the snow on either side of them so as to form a wall.
Hour after hour, in the darkness and raging storm, he toiled on alone,
building the sheltering breastwork which was to ward off death from the
party who by this time had crept shiveringly under its protection. But
for this shelter, all would have perished before morning. At midnight
the man was still at work. The darting snow particles seemed to cut his
eye-balls, and the glare of the fire and the great physical exhaustion
under which he was laboring, gradually rendered him blind. Like his
companions, he had borne a child in his arms all day over the soft,
yielding snow. Like them, he was drenched to the skin, and his clothing
was frozen stiff and hard with ice. Yet he kept up the fire, built a
great sheltering wall about the sufferers, and went here and there
amongst the wailing and dying. With unabated violence the storm
continued its relentless fury. The survivors say it was the coldest
night they ever experienced. There is a limit to human endurance. The
man was getting stone-blind. Had he attempted to speak, his tongue would
have cloven to the roof of his mouth. His senses were chilled, blunted,
dead. Sleep had stilled the plaintive cries of those about him. All was
silent save the storm. ENDELL TYLER.

24, Bedford Square, May 24, 1838.

PREFACE. (p. v)

Memoirs such as these of Henry of Monmouth might doubtless be made
more attractive and entertaining were their Author to supply the
deficiencies of authentic records by the inventions of his fancy,
and adorn the result of careful inquiry into matters of fact by the
descriptive imagery and colourings of fiction.

To a writer, also, who could at once handle the pen of the biographer and
of the poet, few names would offer a more ample field for the
excursive range of historical romance than the life of Henry of Monmouth.
From the day of his first compulsory visit to Ireland, abounding as that
time does with deeply interesting incidents, to his last hour in the
now-ruined castle of Vincennes;--or rather, from his mother's espousals
to the interment of his earthly remains within the sacred precincts
of Westminster, every period teems with animating suggestions. So far,
however, from possessing such adventitious recommendations, the point on
which (rather perhaps than any other) an apology might be expected
for this work, is, that it has freely tested by the standard of (p. vi)
truth those delineations of Henry's character which have contributed
to immortalize our great historical dramatist.

The Author, indeed, is willing to confess that he would gladly have
withdrawn from the task of assaying the substantial accuracy and
soundness of Shakspeare's historical and biographical views, could he
have done so safely and without a compromise of principle. He would
have avoided such an inquiry, not only in deference to the acknowledged
rule which does not suffer a poet to be fettered by the rigid shackles
of unbending facts; but from a disinclination also to interfere, even
in appearance, with the full and free enjoyment of those exquisite scenes
of humour, wit, and nature, in which Henry is the hero, and his "riotous,
reckless companions" are subordinate in dramatical excellence only
to himself.
The Author may also not unwillingly grant, that (with the majority of those
who give a tone to the "form and pressure" of the age) Shakspeare has
done more to invest the character of Henry with a never-dying interest
beyond the lot of ordinary monarchs, than the bare records of
historical verity could ever have effected. Still he feels that he
had no alternative.What a picture of desolation was presented to the inmates of Starved
Camp during the next three days! It stormed incessantly. One who has not
witnessed a storm on the Sierra can not imagine the situation. A
quotation from Bret Harte's "Gabriel Conroy" will afford the best idea
of the situation:

"Snow. Everywhere. As far as the eye could reach fifty miles, looking
southward from the highest white peak. Filling ravines and gulches, and
dropping from the walls of canyons in white shroud-like drifts,
fashioning the dividing ridge into the likeness of a monstrous grave,
hiding the bases of giant pines, and completely covering young trees and
larches, rimming with porcelain the bowl-like edges of still, cold
lakes, and undulating in motionless white billows to the edge of the
distant horizon. Snow lying everywhere on the California Sierra, and
still falling. It had been snowing in finely granulated powder, in damp,
spongy flakes, in thin, feathery plumes; snowing from a leaden sky
steadily, snowing fiercely, shaken out of purple-black clouds in white
flocculent masses, or dropping in long level lines like white lances
from the tumbled and broken heavens. But always silently! The woods were
so choked with it, it had so cushioned and muffled the ringing rocks and
echoing hills, that all sound was deadened. The strongest gust, the
fiercest blast, awoke no sigh or complaint from the snow-packed, rigid
files of forest. There was no cracking of bough nor crackle of
underbrush; the overladen branches of pine and fir yielded and gave away
without a sound. The silence was vast, measureless, complete!"

In alluding to these terrible days, in his diary, Mr. Reed says, under
date of March 6:

"With the snow there is a perfect hurricane. In the night there is a
great crying among the children, and even with the parents there is
praying, crying, and lamentation on account of the cold and the dread of
death from hunger and the howling storm. The men up nearly all night
making fires. Some of the men began praying. Several of them became
blind. I could not see the light of the fire blazing before me, nor tell
when it was burning. The light of heaven is, as it were, shut out from
us. The snow blows so thick and fast that we can not see twenty feet
looking against the wind. I dread the coming night. Three of my men
only, able to get wood. The rest have given out for the present. It is
still snowing, and very cold. So cold that the few men employed in
cutting the dry trees down, have to come and, warm about every ten
minutes. 'Hungry!' 'Hungry!' is the cry with the children, and nothing
to give them. 'Freezing!' is the cry of the mothers who have nothing for
their little, starving, freezing children. Night closing fast, and with
it the hurricane increases.

"Mar. 7. Thank God day has once more appeared, although darkened by the
storm. Snowing as fast as ever, and the hurricane has never ceased for
ten minutes at a time during one of the most dismal nights I have ever
witnessed. I hope I shall never witness another such in a similar
situation. Of all the praying and crying I ever heard, nothing ever
equaled it. Several times I expected to see the people perish of the
extreme cold. At one time our fire was nearly gone, and had it not been
for McCutchen's exertions it would have entirely disappeared. If the
fire had been lost, two thirds of the camp would have been out of their
misery before morning; but, as God would have it, we soon had it blazing
comfortably, and the sufferings of the people became less for a time.
Hope began to animate the bosoms of many, young and old, when the
cheering blaze rose through the dry pine logs we had piled together. One
would say, 'Thank God for the fire!' Another, 'How good it is!' The
poor, little, half-starved, half-frozen children would say, 'I'm glad,
I'm glad we have got some fire! Oh, how good it feels! It is good our
fire didn't go out!' At times the storm would burst forth with such fury
that I felt alarmed for the safety of the people on account of the tall
timber that surrounded us."

Death entered the camp on the first night. He came to claim one who was
a true, faithful mother. One who merits greater praise than language can
convey. Though comparatively little has been told concerning her life by
the survivors, doubt not that Mrs. Elizabeth Graves was one of the
noblest of the mothers of the Donner Party. Her charity is kindly
remembered by all who have spoken her name. To her companions in
misfortune she always gave such food as she possessed; for her children
she now gave her life. The last morsels of food, the last grain of
flour, she had placed in the mouths of her babes, though she was dying
of starvation.

Mrs. Farnham, who talked personally with Mrs. Breen, gives the following
description of that terrible night:

"Mrs. Breen told me that she had her husband and five children together,
lying with their feet to the fire, and their heads under shelter of the
snow breast-work. She sat by them, with only moccasins on her feet, and
a blanket drawn over her shoulders and head, within which, and a shawl
she constantly wore, she nursed her poor baby on her knees. Her milk had
been gone several days, and the child was so emaciated and lifeless that
she scarcely expected at any time on opening the covering to find it
alive. Mrs. Graves lay with her babe and three or four older children at
the other side of the fire. The storm was very violent all night, and
she watched through it, dozing occasionally for a few minutes, and then
rousing herself to brush the snow and flying sparks from the covering of
the sleepers. Toward morning she heard one of the young girls opposite
call to her mother to cover her. The call was repeated several times
impatiently, when she spoke to the child, reminding her of the
exhaustion and fatigue her mother suffered in nursing and carrying the
baby, and bidding her cover herself, and let her mother rest. Presently
she heard the mother speak, in a quiet, unnatural tone, and she called
to one of the men near her to go and speak to her. He arose after a few
minutes and found the poor sufferer almost past speaking. He took her
infant, and after shaking the snow from her blanket, covered her as well
as might be. Shortly after, Mrs. Breen observed her to turn herself
slightly, and throw one arm feebly up, as if to go to sleep. She waited
a little while, and seeing her remain quite still, she walked around to
her. She was already cold in death. Her poor starving child wailed and
moaned piteously in the arms of its young sister, but the mother's heart
could no more warm or nourish it."

The members of the second relief party realized that they were
themselves in imminent danger of death. For this reason a chronicler calls
this assembly "the parliament of the perambulation".[2] The
reconciliation between the king and his subjects was attested by a
grant of a twentieth.

[1] It is published in Bémont's _Chartes_, pp. 99-108, with valuable
comments; another draft analysed in _Hist.

MSS.
Comm._, 6th Report, i., p. 344.

[2] Langtoft, ii, 320.

Edward's concessions once more enabled him to face the Scots, and
the summer saw a gallant army mustered at Carlisle, though some of
the earls, including Roger Bigod, still held aloof.

A two months' campaign was fought in south-western Scotland in July
and August. But the peasants drove their cattle to the hills, and rainy
weather impeded the king's movements. The chief exploit of the campaign
was the capture of Carlaverock castle, though even in the glowing
verse of the herald, who has commemorated the taking of this stronghold,[1]
the military insignificance of the achievement cannot be concealed. Edward
returned to the same district in October, but he effected so little
that he was glad to agree to a truce with the Scots, which Philip the
Fair urged him to accept. The armistice was to last until Whitsuntide,
and Edward immediately returned to England. He had not yet satisfied
his subjects, and was again forced to meet his estates.

[1] _The Siege of Carlaverock_, ed. Nicolas (1828).

A full parliament assembled on January 20, 1301, at Lincoln. The special
business was to receive the report of the forest perambulation; and
the first anticipation of the later custom of continuing the same
parliament from one session to another can be discerned in the
direction to the sheriffs that they should return the same representatives
of the shires and boroughs as had attended the Lenten parliament of 1300,
and only hold fresh elections in the case of such members as had
died or become incapacitated. During the ten days that the commons
were in session stormy scenes occurred. Edward would only
promise to agree to the disafforestments recommended by the perambulators,
if the estates would assure him that he could do so, without violating
his coronation oath or disinheriting his crown. The estates refused to
undertake this grave responsibility, and a long catalogue of their
grievances was presented to Edward by Henry of Keighley, knight of
the shire for Lancashire, and one of the first members of the third
estate of whose individual action history has preserved any trace.

The commons demanded a fresh confirmation of the charters; the punishment
of the royal ministers who had infringed them, or the _Articuli
super cartas_ of the previous session, and the completion of the proposed
disafforestments. In addition, the prelates declared that they could
not assent to any tax being imposed upon the clergy contrary to
the papal prohibition. Among the ministers specially signalled out
for attack was the treasurer, Bishop Walter Langton, and in this Edward
discerned the influence of Winchelsea, for he was Langton's personal
enemy. The king's disgust at the primate's action was the more complete
since Bishop Bek now arrayed himself on the side of the opposition.
Edward showed his ill-will by consigning Henry of Keighley to prison.
But the coalition was too formidable to be withstood. The king agreed
to all the secular demands of the estates, accepted the hated
disafforestments and directed the re-issue of a further confirmation
of the charters, but refused his assent to the demand of the prelates.

A grant of a fifteenth was then made, and Edward dismissed the popular
representatives on January 30, retaining the prelates and nobles for
further business. On February 14, the last confirmation of the charters
concluded the long chapter of history, which had begun at
Runnymede.

Edward strove to separate his baronial and his clerical enemies,
and found an opportunity, which he was not slow to use, in the
uncompromising papalism of Winchelsea.

Boniface VIII. had no sooner settled the relations of England and France
than he threw himself with ardour into an attempt to establish peace
between England and Scotland.
Scottish emissaries, including perhaps Wallace himself, gave Boniface
their version of the ancient relations of the two crowns.

On June 27, 1299, the pope issued the letter _Scimus, fili_, in which
he claimed that Scotland specially belonged to the apostolic see, on the
ground that it was converted through the relics of St. Andrew. He
denied all feudal dependence of Scotland on Edward, and explained
away the submissions of 1291 as arising from such momentary fear as might
fall upon the most steadfast. If Edward persisted in his claims, he
was to submit them to the judgment of the Roman _curia_ within the
next six months. In 1300 Winchelsea, who fully accepted the new papal
doctrine, sought out Edward in the midst of the Carlaverock campaign and
presented him with Boniface's letter. Edward's hot temper fired up at
the archbishop's ill-timed intervention, and subsequent military
failures had not smoothed over the situation. His wrath reached its
climax when Winchelsea once more stirred up opposition in the Lincoln
parliament, and his refusal of a demand, which the primate had astutely
added to the commons' requests, showed that he was prepared for war to
the knife.
Edward laid the papal letter before the earls and barons that still
tarried with him at Lincoln. His appeal to their patriotism was not
unsuccessful. A letter was drawn up, which was sealed, then and
subsequently, by more than a hundred secular magnates, in which Boniface
was roundly told that the King of England was in no wise bound to
answer in the pope's court as to his rights over the realm of Scotland
or as to any other temporal matter, and that the papal claim was
unprecedented, and prejudicial to Edward's sovereignly.

A longer historical statement was composed by the king's order in answer
to Boniface. It is not certain that the two documents ever reached the
pope, but they had great effect in influencing English opinion and
in breaking down the alliance between the baronage and the
ecclesiastical party.[1] Winchelsea's influence was fatally weakened,
and the period of his overthrow was at hand.

[1] See, on the barons' letter, the _Ancestor_, for July and October,
1903, and Jan., 1904.

The triumph over Winchelsea made Edward's position stronger than it had
been during the first days of the Lincoln parliament. That assembly ended
amidst the festivities which attended the creation of Edward of Carnarvon
as Prince of Wales, Earl of Chester, and Count of Ponthieu.
The new prince, already seventeen years of age, had made his first
campaign in the previous year.

But all the pains that Edward took in training his son in warfare
and in politics bore little fruit, and Edward of Carnarvon's introduction
to active life was only to add another trouble to the many that
beset the king.

When the truce with Scotland expired, in the summer of 1301, Edward again
led an army over the border, in which the Prince of Wales appeared,
at the head of a large Welsh contingent.

Little of military importance happened. Edward remained in Scotland over
the cold season, and kept his Christmas court at Linlithgow. Men and
horses perished amidst the rigours of the northern winter, and,
before the end of January, 1302, the king was glad to accept a truce,
suggested by Philip of France, to last until the end of November.
Immediately afterwards he was called to the south by the negotiations for
a permanent peace with France, which still hung fire despite his
marriage to the French king's sister. The earlier stages of the
negotiation were transacted at Rome, but it was soon clear to Edward
that no good would come to him from the intervention of the _curia_.
The fundamental difficulty still lay in the refusal of Philip to relax
his grasp on Gascony.

Not even the exaltation, consequent on the success of the famous jubilee
of 1300, blinded Boniface to the patent fact that he dared not order
the restitution of Gascony. "We cannot give you an award," declared
the pope to the English envoys in 1300. "If we pronounced in
your favour, the French would not abide by it, and could not be
compelled, for they would make light of any penalty." "What the French
once lay hold of," he said again, "they never let go, and to have
to do with the French is to have to do with the devil."[1] A year later
Boniface could do no more than appeal to the crusading zeal of Edward
not to allow his claim on a patch of French soil to stand between him
and his vow. With such commonplaces the papal mediation died away.

[1] See the remarkable report of the Bishop of Winchester to Edward printed
in _Engl. Hist. Review_, xvii. (1902), pp.
518-27.

Two events in 1302 indirectly contributed towards the establishment of
a permanent peace. These were the successful revolt of Flanders from
French domination, and the renewed quarrel between Philip and Boniface.

On May 18, the Flemings, in the "matins of Bruges," cruelly avenged
themselves for the oppressions which they had endured from Philip's
officials, and on July 11 the revolted townsfolk won the battle of
Courtrai, in which their heavy armed infantry defeated the feudal
cavalry of France, a victory of the same kind as that Wallace had
vainly hoped to gain at Falkirk.

Even before the Flemish rising, the reassertion of high sacerdotal doctrine
in the bull _Ausculta, fili_ had renewed the strife between Boniface and
the French king. A few months later the bull _Unam sanctam_ laid down
with emphasis the doctrine that those who denied that the temporal sword
belongs to St.
Peter were heretics, unmindful of the teachings of Christ. Thus began
the famous difference that went on with ever-increasing fury until
the outrage at Anagni, on September 7, 1303, brought about the fall
of Boniface and the overthrow of the Hildebrandine papacy.

Meanwhile Philip was devoting his best energies to constant, and
not altogether vain, attempts to avenge the defeat of Courtrai, and
re-establish his hold on Flanders.

With these two affairs on
his hands, it was
useless for him
to persevere
in his attempt to hold
Gascony.

In the earlier
stages of his quarrel
with Philip, Boniface
built great hopes on
Edward's support, and
strongly urged
him to fight for
holy Church against
the impious French
king. But Edward had
suffered too
much from Boniface to fall into so obvious a trap.

His hold over his own clergy was so firm that Winchelsea himself had
no chance of taking up the papal call to battle. Thus it was that _Unam
sanctam_ produced no such clerical revolt in England as _Clericis
laicos_ had done. It was Edward's policy to make use of Philip's
necessities to win back Gascony, and cut off all hope of French
support from the Scottish patriots. Philip himself was the more disposed
to agree with his brother-in-law's wishes, because about Christmas,
1302, Bordeaux threw off the French yoke and called in the English.

The best way to save French dignity was by timely concession. Accordingly,
on May 20, 1303, the definitive treaty of Paris was sealed, by which
the two kings were pledged to "perpetual peace and friendship". Gascony
was restored, and Edward agreed that he, or his son, should perform
liege homage for it.
With the discharge of this duty by the younger Edward at Amiens, in 1304,
the last stage of the pacification was accomplished. For the rest of the
reign, England and France remained on cordial terms. Neither Edward
nor Philip had resources adequate to the accomplishment of great
schemes of foreign conquest. Though Edward got back Gascony, he owed it,
not to his own power, but to the embarrassment of his rival.

While completing his pacification with Philip the Fair, Edward was
busily engaged in establishing his power at home, at the expense
of the clerical and baronial opposition, which had stood for so many years
in the way of the conquest of Scotland. Since the parliament of Lincoln,
Winchelsea was no longer dangerous. He failed even to get Boniface
on his side in a scandalous attack which he instigated on Bishop
Langton.
His constant efforts to enlarge his jurisdiction raised up enemies all
over his diocese and province, and the mob of his cathedral
city broke open his palace, while he was in residence there.

His inability to introduce into England even a pale reflection of the
struggle of Philip and the pope showed how clearly he had lost influence
since the days of _Clericis laicos_. A more recent convert to higher
clerical pretensions also failed. Bishop Bek of Durham lost all his
power, and was deprived of his temporalities by the king in 1302. Two
years later the insignificant Archbishop of York also incurred the royal
displeasure, and was punished in the same fashion. With Durham,
Norhamshire, and Hexhamshire all in the royal hands, the road into
Scotland was completely open.

The heavy hand of Edward fell upon earls as well as upon bishops. Even
in the early days of his reign when none, save Gilbert of Gloucester,
dared uplift the standard of opposition, Edward had not spared the
greatest barons in his efforts to eliminate the idea of tenure from
English political life. A subtle extension of his earlier policy began
to emphasise the dependence of the landed dignitaries on his pleasure.
The extinction of several important baronial houses made this the easier,
and Edward took care to retain escheats in his own hands, or at least
to entrust them only to persons of approved confidence. The old leaders
of opposition were dead or powerless. Ralph of Monthermer, the simple
north-country knight who had won the hand of Joan of Acre, ruled over
the Gloutester-Glamorgan inheritance on behalf of his wife and Edward's
little grandson, Gilbert of Clare. The Earl of Hereford died in 1299, and
in 1302 his son and successor, another Humphrey Bohun, was bribed by a
marriage with the king's daughter, Elizabeth, the widowed Countess of
Holland, to surrender his lands to the crown and receive them back,
like the Earl of Gloucester in 1290, entailed on the issue of himself and
his consort. In the same year the childless earl marshal, Roger Bigod,
conscious of his inability to continue any longer his struggle against
royal assumptions and at variance with his brother and heir,
made a similar surrender of his estates, which was the more humiliating
since the estate in tail, with which he was reinvested, was bound to
terminate with his life. In 1306, on the marshal's death, the Bigod
inheritance lapsed to the crown. Much earlier than that, in 1293, Edward
had extorted on her deathbed from the great heiress, Isabella of
Fors, Countess of Albemarle and Devon, the bequest of the Isle of
Wight and the adjacent castle of Christchurch.

In 1300, on the death of the king's childless cousin, Earl Edmund, the
wealthy earldom of Cornwall escheated to the crown. To Edward's
contemporaries the acquisition of the earldoms of Norfolk and Cornwall
seemed worthy to be put alongside the conquests of Wales and
Scotland.[1]
[1] See John of London, _Commendatio lamentabilis_ in _Chron.
of Edw. I. and Edw. II._, ii., 8-9. See for the earldoms my _Earldoms
under Edward I._ in _Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, new
ser._, viii. (1894), 129-155.

Even more important as adding to Edward's resources than these direct
additions to the royal domains, was the increasing dependence of
the remaining earls upon the crown. His sons-in-law of Gloucester
and Hereford were entirely under his sway. In 1304 the aged Earl
Warenne had died, and in 1306 his grandson and successor was bound
closely to the royal policy by his marriage with Joan of Bar,
Edward's grand-daughter. In the same way Edward's young nephew,
Thomas of Lancaster, ruled over the three earldoms of Lancaster,
Derby, and Leicester, and by his marriage to the daughter and heiress
of Henry Lacy, was destined to add to his immense estates the
additional earldoms of Lincoln and Salisbury.After
the turning of the night she always sat watching for the morning star,
which seemed every time she saw it rise clear in the cold eastern sky,
to renew the promise, "As thy day is, so shall thy strength be."

Their fire had melted the snow to a considerable depth, and they were
lying on the bank above. Thus they had less of its heat than they
needed, and found some difficulty in getting the fuel she gathered
placed so it would burn. One morning after she had hailed her messenger
of promise, and the light had increased so as to render objects visible
in the distance, she looked as usual over the white expanse that lay to
the south-west, to see if any dark moving specks were visible upon its
surface. Only the tree-tops, which she had scanned so often as to be
quite familiar with their appearance, were to be seen. With a heavy
heart she brought herself back from that distant hope to consider what
was immediately about her. The fire had sunk so far away that they had
felt but little of its warmth the last two nights, and casting her eyes
down into the snow-pit, whence it sent forth only a dull glow, she
thought she saw the welcome face of beloved mother Earth. It was such a
renewing sight after their long, freezing separation from it She
immediately aroused her eldest son, John, and with a great deal of
difficulty, and repeating words of cheer and encouragement, brought him
to understand that she wished him to descend by one of the tree-tops
which had fallen in so as to make a sort of ladder, and see if they
could reach the naked earth, and if it were possible for them all to go
down. She trembled with fear at the vacant silence in which he at first
gazed at her, but at length, after she had told him a great many times,
he said "Yes, mother," and went.

He reached the bottom safely, and presently spoke to her. There was
naked, dry earth under his feet; it was warm, and he wished her to come
down. She laid her baby beside some of the sleepers, and descended.
Immediately she determined upon taking them all down. How good, she
thought, as she descended the boughs, was the God whom she trusted. By
perseverance, by entreaty, by encouragement, and with her own aid, she
got them into this snug shelter.

Relief came not, and as starvation crept closer and closer to himself
and those about him, Patrick Breen determined that it was his duty to
employ the means of sustaining life which God seemed to have placed
before them. The lives of all might be saved by resorting to such food
as others, in like circumstances, had subsisted upon. Mrs. Breen,
however, declared that she would die, and see her children die, before
her life or theirs should be preserved by such means. If ever the father
gave to the dying children, it was without her consent or knowledge. She
never tasted, nor knew of her children partaking. Mrs. Farnham says that
when Patrick Breen ascended to obtain the dreadful repast, his wife,
frozen with horror, hid her face in her hands, and could not look up.
She was conscious of his return, and of something going on about the
fire, but she could not bring herself to uncover her eyes till all had
subsided again into silence. Her husband remarked that perhaps they were
wrong in rejecting a means of sustaining life of which others had
availed themselves, but she put away the suggestion so fearfully that it
was never renewed, nor acted upon by any of her family. She and her
children were now, indeed, reaching the utmost verge of life. A little
more battle with the grim enemies that had pursued them so relentlessly,
twenty-four, or at most forty-eight hours of such warfare, and all would
be ended. The infants still breathed, but were so wasted they could only
be moved by raising them bodily with the hands. It seemed as if even
their light weight would have dragged the limbs from their bodies.
Occasionally, through the day, she ascended the tree to look out. It was
an incident now, and seemed to kindle more life than when it only
required a turn of the head or a glance of the eye to tell that there
was no living thing near them. She could no longer walk on the snow, but
she had still strength enough to crawl from tree to tree to gather a few
boughs, which she threw along before her to the pit, and piled them in
to renew the fire. The eighth day was passed. On the ninth morning she
ascended to watch for her star of mercy. Clear and bright it stood over
against her beseeching gaze, set in the light liquid blue that overflows
the pathway of the opening day. She prayed earnestly as she gazed, for
she knew that there were but few hours of life in those dearest to her.
If human aid came not that day, some eyes, that would soon look
imploringly into hers, would be closed in death before that star would
rise again. Would she herself, with all her endurance and resisting
love, live to see it? Were they at length to perish? Great God! should
it be permitted that they, who had been preserved through so much,
should die at last so miserably?

Her eyes were dim, and her sight wavering. She could not distinguish
trees from men on the snow, but had they been near, she could have heard
them, for her ear had grown so sensitive that the slightest unaccustomed
noise arrested her attention. She went below with a heavier heart than
ever before. She had not a word of hope to answer the languid, inquiring
countenances that were turned to her face, and she was conscious that it
told the story of her despair. Yet she strove with some half-insane
words to suggest that somebody would surely come to them that day.
Another would be too late, and the pity of men's hearts and the mercy of
God would surely bring them. The pallor of death seemed already to be
stealing over the sunken countenances that surrounded her, and, weak as
she was, she could remain below but a few minutes together. She felt she
could have died had she let go her resolution at any time within the
last forty-eight hours. They repeated the Litany. The responses came so
feebly that they were scarcely audible, and the protracted utterances
seemed wearisome. At last it was over, and they rested in silence.

The sun mounted high and higher in the heavens, and when the day was
three or four hours old she placed her trembling feet again upon the
ladder to look out once more. The corpses of the dead lay always before
her as she reached the top-the mother and her son, and the little boy,
whose remains she could not even glance at since they had been
mutilated. The blanket that covered them could not shut out the horror
of the sight.

The rays of the sun fell on her with a friendly warmth, but she could
not look into the light that flooded the white expanse. Her eyes lacked
strength and steadiness, and she rested herself against a tree and
endeavored to gather her wandering faculties in vain. The enfeebled will
could no longer hold rule over them. She had broken perceptions,
fragments of visions, contradictory and mixed-former mingled with latter
times. Recollections of plenty and rural peace came up from her clear,
tranquil childhood, which seemed to have been another state of
existence; flashes of her latter life-its comfort and abundance-gleams
of maternal pride in her children who had been growing up about her to
ease and independence.

She lived through all the phases which her simple life had ever worn, in
the few moments of repose after the dizzy effort of ascending; as the
thin blood left her whirling brain and returned to its shrunken
channels, she grew more clearly conscious of the terrible present, and
remembered the weary quest upon which she came. It was not the memory of
thought, it was that of love, the old tugging at the heart that had
never relaxed long enough to say, "Now I am done; I can bear no more!"
The miserable ones down there - for them her wavering life came back; at
thought of them she turned her face listlessly the way it had so often
gazed. But this time something caused it to flush as if the blood, thin
and cold as it was, would burst its vessels! What was it? Nothing that
she saw, for her eyes were quite dimmed by the sudden access of
excitement! It was the sound of voices! By a superhuman effort she kept
herself from falling! Was it reality or delusion? She must at least live
to know the truth. It came again and again. She grew calmer as she
became more assured, and the first distinct words she heard uttered
were, "There is Mrs. Breen alive yet, anyhow!" Three men were advancing
toward her. She knew that now there would be no more starving. Death was
repelled for this time from the precious little flock he had so long
threatened, and she might offer up thanksgiving unchecked by the dreads
and fears that had so long frozen her.


Chapter XVII.


The Rescue
California Aroused
A Yerba Buena Newspaper
Tidings of Woe
A Cry of Distress
Noble Generosity
Subscriptions for the Donner Party
The First and Second Reliefs
Organization of the Third
The Dilemma
Voting to Abandon a Family
The Fatal Ayes
John Stark's Bravery
Carrying the Starved Children
A Plea for the Relief Party.


Foster and Eddy, it will be remembered, were of the fifteen who composed
the "Forlorn Hope." Foster was a man of strong, generous impulses, and
great determination. His boy was at Donner Lake, and his wife's mother
and brother. He hardly took time to rest and recruit his wasted strength
before he began organizing a party to go to their rescue. His efforts
were ably seconded by W. H. Eddy, whose wife and daughter had perished,
but whose boy was still alive at the cabins.

California was thoroughly aroused over tidings which had come from the
mountains. It was difficult to get volunteers to undertake the journey
over the Sierra, but horses, mules, provisions, and good wages were
allowed all who would venture the perilous trip. The trouble with Mexico
had caused many of the able-bodied citizens of California to enlist in
the service. Hence it was that it was so difficult to organize relief
parties.

The following extracts are made from the California Star, a newspaper
published at "Yerba Buena," as San Francisco was then called. They do
justice to the sentiment of the people of California, and indicate
something of the willingness of the pioneers to aid the Donner Party.
From the Star of January 16, 1847, is taken the following article, which
appeared as an editorial:

"Emigrants on the Mountains."

It is probably not generally known to the people that there is now in
the California mountains, in a most distressing situation, a party of
emigrants from the United States, who were prevented from crossing the
mountains by an early, heavy fall of snow. The party consists of about
sixty persons - men, women, and children. They were almost entirely out
of provisions when they reached the foot of the mountains, and but for
the timely succor afforded them by Capt. J. A. Sutter, one of the most
humane and liberal men in California, they must have all perished in a
few days. Capt. Sutter, as soon as he ascertained their situation, sent
five mules loaded with provisions to them. A second party was dispatched
with provisions for them, but they found the mountains impassable in
consequence of the snow. We hope that our citizens will do something for
the relief of these unfortunate people."

From the same source, under date of February 6, 1847, is taken the
following:

"Public Meeting."

"It will be recollected that in a previous number of our paper, we
called the attention of our citizens to the situation of a company of
unfortunate emigrants now in the California mountains. For the purpose
of making their situation more fully known to the people, and of
adopting measures for their relief, a public meeting was called by the
Honorable Washington A. Bartlett, alcalde of the town, on Wednesday
evening last. The citizens generally attended, and in a very short time
the sum of $800 was subscribed to purchase provisions, clothing, horses,
and mules to bring the emigrants in. Committees were appointed to call
on those who could not attend the meeting, and there is no doubt but
that $500 or $600 more will be raised. This speaks well for Yerba
Buena."

One other extract is quoted from the Star of February 13, 1847:

"Company Left."

"A company of twenty men left here on Sunday last for the California
mountains, with provisions, clothing, etc., for the suffering emigrants
now there. The citizens of this place subscribed about $1,500 for their
relief, which was expended for such articles as the emigrants would be
most likely to need. Mr. Greenwood, an old mountaineer, went with the
company as pilot. If it is possible to cross the mountains, they will
get to the emigrants in time to save them."

These three articles may aid the reader in better understanding what has
heretofore been said about the organization of the relief parties. It
will be remembered that James F. Reed and William McCutchen first
procured animals and provisions from Capt. Sutter, attempted to cross
the mountains, found the snow impassable, cached their provisions, and
returned to the valleys. Reed, as described in his letter to the Rural
Press, went to San Jose, Cal., and thence to Yerba Buena. McCutchen went
to Napa and Sonoma, and awakened such an interest that a subscription of
over $500 was subscribed for the emigrants, besides a number of horses
and mules. Lieut. W. L. Maury and M. G. Vallejo headed this
subscription, and $500 was promised to Greenwood if he succeeded in
raising a company, and in piloting them over the mountains. In order to
get men, Greenwood and McCutchen went to Yerba Buena, arriving there
almost at the same time with Reed. The above notices chronicle the
events which succeeded the announcement of their mission. The funds and
supplies contributed were placed in charge of Lieut. Woodworth. This
party set out immediately, and their journey has been described. They
form the second relief party, because immediately upon the arrival of
the seven who survived of the "Forlorn Hope," Capt. Tucker's party had
been organized at Johnson's and Sutter's, and had reached Dormer Lake
first.

When Foster and Eddy attempted to form a relief party, they found the
same difficulty in securing volunteers which others had encountered. It
was such a terrible undertaking, that no man cared to risk his life in
the expedition.

Captain J. B. Hull, of the United States navy, and Commander of the
Northern District of California, furnished Foster and Eddy with horses
and provisions. Setting out from Johnson's ranch, they arrived at
Woodworth's camp in the afternoon. During that very night two of Reed's
men came to the camp, and brought news that Reed and a portion of his
party were a short distance back in the mountains. When Reed and his
companions were brought into camp, and it was ascertained that fourteen
people had been left in the snow, without food, the third relief party
was at once organized. The great danger and suffering endured by those
who had composed the first and second relief parties, prevented men from
volunteering. On this account greater honor is due those who determined
to peril their lives to save the emigrants. Hiram Miller, although weak
and exhausted with the fatigues and starvation he had just undergone in
the second relief party, joined Messrs. Foster and Eddy. These three,
with Wm. Thompson, John Stark, Howard Oakley, and Charles Stone, set out
from Woodworth's camp the next morning after Reed's arrival. It was
agreed that Stark, Oakley, and Stone were to remain with the sufferers
at Starved Camp, supply them with food, and conduct them to Woodworth's
camp. Foster, Eddy, Thompson, and Miller were to press forward to the
relief of those at Donner Lake. The three men, therefore, whose voices
reached Mrs. Breen, were Stark, Oakley, and Stone.

When these members of the third relief party reached the deep, well-like
cavity in which were the seven Breens, the three Graves children, and
Mary Donner, a serious question arose. None of the eleven, except Mrs.
Breen and John Breen, were able to walk. A storm appeared to be
gathering upon the mountains, and the supply of provisions was very
limited. The lonely situation, the weird, desolate surroundings, the
appalling scenes at the camp, and above all, the danger of being
overtaken by a snow-storm, filled the minds of Oakley and Stone with
terror. When it was found that nine out of the eleven people must be
carried over the snow, it is hardly to be wondered at that a proposition
was made to leave a portion of the sufferers. It was proposed to take
the three Graves children and Mary Donner. These four children would be
quite a sufficient burden for the three men, considering the snow over
which they must travel. The Breens, or at least such of them as could
not walk, were to be abandoned. This was equivalent to leaving the
father, mother, and five children, because the mother would not abandon
any member of her family, and John, who alone could travel, was in a
semi-lifeless condition. The members of the third relief party are said
to have taken a vote upon the question. This scene is described in the
manuscript of Hon. James F. Breen: "Those who were in favor of returning
to the settlements, and leaving the Breens for a future relief party
(which, under the circumstances, was equivalent to the death penalty),
were to answer 'aye.' The question was put to each man by name, and as
the names were called, the dreadful 'aye' responded. John Stark's name
was the last one called, because he had, during the discussion of the
question, strongly opposed the proposition for abandonment, and it was
naturally supposed that when he found himself in so hopeless a minority
he would surrender. When his name was called, he made no answer until
some one said to him: 'Stark, won't you vote?' Stark, during all this
proceeding of calling the roll, had stood apart from his companions with
bowed head and folded arms. When he was thus directly appealed to, he
answered quickly and decidedly: "No, gentlemen, I will not abandon these
people. I am here on a mission of mercy, and I will not half do the
work. You can all go if you want to, but I shall stay by these people
while they and I live."

It was nobly said. If the Breens had been left at Starved Camp, even
until the return of Foster, Eddy, Miller, and Thompson from the lake,
none would have ever reached the settlements. In continuation of the
above narration, the following is taken from the manuscript of John
Breen: "Stark was finally left alone. To his great bodily strength, and
unexcelled courage, myself and others owe our lives. There was probably
no other man in California at that time, who had the intelligence,
determination, and what was absolutely necessary in that emergency, the
immense physical powers of John Stark. He was as strong as two ordinary
men. On his broad shoulders, he carried the provisions, most of the
blankets, and most of the time some of the weaker children. In regard to
this, he would laughingly say that he could carry them all, if there was
room on his back, because they were so light from starvation."

By every means in his power, Stark would cheer and encourage the poor
sufferers. Frequently he would carry one or two ahead a little way, put
them down, and return for the others. James F. Breen says: "I distinctly
remember that myself and Jonathan Graves were both carried by Stark, on
his back, the greater part of the journey." Others speak similarly.

Regarding this brave man, Dr. J. C. Leonard has contributed much
valuable information, from which is selected the following:

"John Stark was born in 1817, in Wayne County, Indiana. His father,
William Stark, came from Virginia, and was one of the first settlers of
Kentucky, arriving there about the same time as Daniel Boone. He married
a cousin of Daniel Boone, and they had a family of eight children. T. J.
Stark, the oldest son, now lives at French Corral, Nevada County,
California. John Stark, the younger brother, started from Monmouth
County, Illinois, in the spring of 1846, but taking the Fort Hall road,
reached California in safety. He was a powerfully built man, weighing
two hundred and twenty pounds. He was sheriff of Napa County for six
years, and in 1852 represented that county in the State Legislature. He
died near Calistoga, in 1875, of heart disease. His death was
instantaneous, and occurred while pitching hay from a wagon. He was the
father of eleven children, six of whom, with his wife, are now living."

Each one of the persons who were taken from Starved Camp by this man and
his two companions, reached Sutter's Fort in safety. James F. Breen had
his feet badly frozen, and afterwards burned while at the camp. No one
had any hope that they could be saved, and when the party reached the
fort, a doctor was sought to amputate them. None could be found, and
kind nature effected a cure which a physician would have pronounced
impossible.

In concluding this chapter, it is quite appropriate to quote the
following, written by J. F. Breen: "No one can attach blame to those who
voted to leave part of the emigrants. It was a desperate case. Their
idea was to save as many as possible, and they honestly believed that by
attempting to save all, all would be lost. But this consideration - and
the further one that Stark was an entire stranger to every one in the
camps, not bound to them by any tie of blood or kindred, nor having any
hope of reward, except the grand consciousness of doing a noble act -
makes his conduct shine more lustrously in the eyes of every person who
admires nature's true and only nobility."


Chapter XVIII.


Arrival of the Third Relief
The Living and the Dead
Captain George Donner Dying
Mrs. Murphy's Words
Foster and Eddy at the Lake
Tamsen Donner and her Children
A Fearful Struggle
The Husband's Wishes
Walking Fourteen Miles
Wifely Devotion
Choosing Death
The Night Journey
An Unparalleled Ordeal
An Honored Name
Three Little Waifs
"And Our Parents are Dead."


Eddy, Foster, Thompson, and Miller passed Nicholas Clark and John
Baptiste near the head of Donner Lake. These starving fugitives had
journeyed thus far in their desperate effort to cross the mountains. Of
all those encamped at Alder Creek the sole survivors now were George
Donner, the captain of the Donner Party, and his faithful wife, Tamsen
Donner. Under the snowdrifts which covered the valley, lay Jacob Donner,
Elizabeth Donner, Lewis Donner, Samuel Donner, Samuel Shoemaker, Joseph
Rhinehart, and James Smith. One more was soon to be added to the number.
It was the man whose name had been given to the company; the only one
who died of a lingering, painful disease. The injury of George Donner's
hand had grown into a feverish, virulent ulceration, which must have
partaken of the nature of erysipelas. At all events, mortification had
set in, and when the third relief party arrived it had reached his
shoulder. In a few hours at most he must die.

Foster's party found that much suffering had occurred at Donner Lake
during the tearful days which elapsed between Reed's departure and their
own arrival. Mrs. Lavina Murphy had charge of her son, Simon Murphy, her
grandchild, George Foster, of the child James Eddy, and of the three
little Donner girls, Frances, Georgia, and Eliza. All dwelt in the same
cabin, and with them was Lewis Keseberg. Foster and Eddy found all
there, save their own children. They were both dead. Keseberg has
generally been accused of the murder of little George Foster. Except
Mrs. Murphy, the oldest of those who were with Keseberg was only nine
years of age. All that the children know is that Keseberg took the child
to bed with him one night, and that it was dead next morning. One of the
little ones who survived - one whose memory has proven exceedingly
truthful upon all points wherein her evidence could be possibly
substantiated - and who is now Mrs. Georgia A. Babcock - gives the
mildest version of this sad affair which has ever appeared in print. She
denies the story, so often reiterated, that Keseberg took the child to
bed with him and ate it up before morning; but writes the following: "In
the morning the child was dead. Mrs. Murphy took it, sat down near the
bed where my sister and myself were lying, laid the little one on her
lap, and made remarks to other persons, accusing Keseberg of killing it.
After a while he came, took it from her, and hung it up in sight, inside
the cabin, on the wall."

Foster, Eddy, Thompson, and Miller remained but a little while at the
mountain camp. During this time Mr. Foster had no opportunity to talk
with Mrs. Murphy save in Keseberg's presence. Afterwards, when the
children told him of the suspicions expressed in their presence by Mrs.
Murphy, Foster deeply regretted that he had not sought a private
interview with her, for the purpose of learning the reasons for her
belief.

In the morning the relief party was to start back to the settlements.
Eddy was to carry Georgia Donner; Thompson, Frances Donner; Miller,
Eliza Donner; and Foster was to carry Simon Murphy. John Baptiste and
Nicholas Clark remained at the head of Donner Lake, and were to
accompany the party. This left Mr. and Mrs. Donner at Alder Creek, and
Keseberg and Mrs. Murphy at the cabins. Mrs. Murphy had cared for her
children and her grandchildren, and ministered to the wants of those
around her, until she was sick, exhausted, and utterly helpless. She
could not walk. She could scarcely rise from her bed. With all the
tenderness of a son, Mr. Foster gave her such provisions as he could
leave, procured her wood, and did whatever he was able to do to render
her comfortable. He also promised to return speedily, and with such
assistance that he could carry her over the summits to her children.

The very afternoon that the third relief party reached the cabins, Simon
Murphy discovered a woman wandering about in the snow as if lost. It
proved to be Mrs. Tamsen Donner. She had wearily traveled over the deep
snows from Alder Creek, as narrated in a previous chapter, to see her
children, and, if necessary, to protect their lives. Oh! the joy and the
pain of the meeting of those little ones and their mother. As they wound
their arms about her neck, kissed her lips, laughed in her eyes, and
twined their fingers in her hair, what a struggle must have been taking
place in her soul. As the pleading, upturned faces of her babies begged
her not to leave them, her very heart-strings must have been rent with
agony. Well may the voice quiver or the hand tremble that attempts to
portray the anguish of this mother during that farewell interview. From
the very first moment, her resolution to return to her husband remained
unshaken. The members of the relief party entreated her to go with her,
children and save her own life. They urged that there could only be a
few hours of life left in George Donner. This was so true that she once
ventured the request that they remain until she could return to Alder
Creek, and see if he were yet alive. The gathering storm-clouds, which
had hovered over the summit for days, compelled them to refuse this
request. An hour's delay might be fatal to all.

George Donner knew that he was dying, and had frequently urged his wife
to leave him, cross the mountains, and take care of her children. As she
held her darlings in her arms, it required no prophetic vision to
disclose pictures of sadness, of lonely childhood, of longing girlhood,
of pillows wet with tears, if these three little waifs were left to
wander friendless in California. She never expressed a belief that she
would see that land of promise beyond the Sierra. Often had her calm,
earnest voice told them of the future which awaited them, and so far as
possible had she prepared them to meet that future without the counsel
or sympathy of father or mother.

The night-shadows, creeping through the shivering pines, warned her of
the long, dreary way over which her tired feet must pass ere she reached
her dying husband's side. She is said to have appeared strangely
composed. The struggle was silent. The poor, bleeding heart brought not
a single moan to the lips. It was a choice between life, hope, and her
clinging babes, or a lonely vigil by a dying husband, and an unknown,
shroudless death in the wintry mountains. Her husband was sixty-three;
he was well stricken in years, and his life was fast ebbing away. If she
returned through the frosty night-winds, over the crisp, freezing snow,
she would travel fourteen miles that day. The strong, healthy men
composing the relief parties frequently could travel but five or six
miles in a day. If she made the journey, and found her husband was dead,
she could have no hope of returning on the morrow. She had suffered too
long from hunger and privation to hope to be able to return and overtake
the relief party. It was certain life or certain death. On the side of
the former was maternal love; on the side of the latter, wifely
devotion. The whole wide range of history can not produce a parallel
example of adherence to duty, and to the dictates of conjugal fidelity.
With quick, convulsive pressure of her little ones to her heart; with a
hasty, soul-throbbing kiss upon the lips of each; with a prayer that was
stifled with a sob of agony, Tamsen Donner hurried away to her husband.
Through the gathering darkness, past the shadowy sentinels of the
forest, they watched with tearful eyes her retreating form. As if she
dared not trust another sight of the little faces - as if to escape the
pitiful wail of her darlings - she ran straight forward until out of
sight and hearing. She never once looked back.

There are mental struggles which so absorb the being and soul that
physical terrors or tortures are unnoticed. Tamsen Donner's mind was
passing through such an ordeal. The fires of Moloch, the dreadful
suttee, were sacrifices which long religious education sanctioned, and
in which the devotees perished amidst the plaudits of admiring
multitudes. This woman had chosen a death of solitude, of hunger, of
bitter cold, of pain-racked exhaustion, and was actuated by only the
pure principles of wifely love. Already the death-damp was gathering on
George Donner's brow. At the utmost, she could hope to do no more than
smooth the pillow of the dying, tenderly clasp the fast-chilling hand,
press farewell kisses upon the whitening lips, and finally close the
dear, tired eyes. For this, only this, she was yielding life, the world,
and her darling babes. Fitted by culture and refinement to be an
ornament to society, qualified by education to rear her daughters to
lives of honor and usefulness, how it must have wrung her heart to allow
her little ones to go unprotected into a wilderness of strangers. But
she could not leave her husband to die alone. Rather solitude, better
death, than desert the father of her children. O, Land of the Sunset!
let the memory of this wife's devotion be ever enshrined in the hearts
of your faithful daughters! In tablets thus pure, engrave the name of
Tamsen Donner.

-

When the June sunshine gladdened the Sacramento Valley, three little
barefooted girls walked here and there among the houses and tents of
Sutter's Fort. They were scantily clothed, and one carried a thin
blanket. At night they said their prayers, lay down in whatever tent
they happened to be, and, folding the blanket about them, fell asleep in
each other's arms. When they were hungry, they asked food of whomsoever
they met. If any one inquired who they were, they answered as their
mother had taught them: "We are the children of Mr. and Mrs. George
Donner." But they added something they had learned since. It was, "And
our parents are dead."


Chapter XIX.


False Ideas about the Donner Party
Accused of Six Murders
Interviews with Lewis Keseberg
His Statement
An Educated German
A Predestined Fate
Keseberg's Lameness
Slanderous Reports
Covered with Snow
"Loathsome, Insipid, and Disgusting"
Longings toward Suicide
Tamsen Donner's Death
Going to Get the Treasure
Suspended over a Hidden Stream
"Where is Donner's Money?"
Extorting a Confession.


Keseberg is one of the leading characters in the Donner Party. Usually,
his part in the tragedy has been considered the entire story.
Comparatively few people have understood that any except this one man
ate human flesh, or was a witness of any scene of horror. He has been
loathed, execrated, abhorred as a cannibal, a murderer, and a heartless
fiend. In the various published sketches which have from time to time
been given to the world, Lewis Keseberg has been charged with no less
than six murders. His cannibalism has been denounced as arising from
choice, as growing out of a depraved and perverted appetite, instead of
being the result of necessity. On the fourth of April, 1879, this
strange man granted an interview to the author, and in this and
succeeding interviews he reluctantly made a statement which was reduced
to writing. "What is the use," he would urge, "of my making a statement?
People incline to believe the most horrible reports concerning a man,
and they will not credit what I say in my own defense. My conscience is
clear. I am an old man, and am calmly awaiting my death. God is my
judge, and it long ago ceased to trouble me that people shunned and
slandered me."

Keseberg is six feet in height, is well proportioned, and weighs from
one hundred and seventy-five to one hundred and eighty pounds. He is
active, vigorous, and of an erect, manly carriage, despite his years and
his many afflictions. He has clear blue eyes, regular features, light
hair and beard, a distinct, rapid mode of enunciation, a loud voice, and
a somewhat excited manner of speech. In conversing he looks one squarely
and steadily in the eye, and appears like an honest, intelligent German.
He speaks and writes German, French, Spanish, and English, and his
selection of words proves him a scholar. His face generally wears a
determined, almost fierce expression, but one is impressed with the
thought that this appearance is caused by his habitually standing on the
defensive as against his fellow-men. Since he has never before had an
opportunity of speaking in his own defense, it is perhaps fitting that
his statement should be given in his own language:

"My name is Lewis Keseberg. I was born in the city of Berleburg,
Province of Westphalia, in the Kingdom of Prussia, on the twenty-second
of May, 1814. I am therefore almost sixty-three years of age. I was
married June 22, 1842, came to the United States May 22, 1844, and
emigrated to California in 1846 with the Donner Party. I never have made
a statement concerning my connection with that Party to any one
connected with the press. It is with the utmost horror that I revert to
the scenes of suffering and unutterable misery endured during that
journey. I have always endeavored to put away from me all thoughts or
recollections of those terrible events. Time is the best physician, and
would, I trusted, heal the wounds produced by those days of torture; yet
my mind to-day recoils with undiminished horror as I endeavor to speak
of this dreadful subject. Heretofore I have never attempted to refute
the villainous slanders which have been circulated and published about
me. I feel it my duty to make this statement, however, because I am
convinced of your willingness to do justice to all who were concerned in
that dreadful affair, and heretofore I have been treated with gross
injustice.

"If I believe in God Almighty having anything to do with the affairs of
men, I believe that the misfortune which overtook the Donner Party, and
the terrible part I was compelled to take in the great tragedy, were
predestined. On the Hastings Cut-off we were twenty-eight days in going
twenty-one miles. Then suddenly he bent down to her.

"I knew perfectly well that she was in the Long Gallery! But I also
knew that Mrs. Bayle had chosen to join her there. The coast, you
may perceive, is now clear."
He walked away. Marcella looked round, and saw an elegant little bride,
Mr. Bayle's new wife, rustling into the room again. She leant back
in her chair, half laughing, yet her eyes were wet. The new joy brought
a certain ease to old regrets. Only that word "rule" rankled a
little.

Yet the old regrets were all sharp and active again. It seemed to be
impossible now to talk with George Tressady, to make any real breach
in the barrier between them; but how impossible also not to think of
him!--of the young fellow, who had given Maxwell his reward, and said
to herself such sad, such agitating things! She did think of him.
Her heart ached to serve him. The situation made a new and a very troubling
appeal to her womanhood.

* * * * *
The night was warm, and still, and the windows were open to it as they
had been on that May night at Castle Luton.

Maxwell came to look for Tressady, and took him out upon a flagged
terrace that ran the length of the house.

They talked first of the Ancoats incident, George supplementing his letters
by some little verbal pictures of Ancoats's life and surroundings
that made Maxwell laugh grimly from time to time. As to Mrs. Allison,
Maxwell reported that Ancoats seemed to have gained his point. There was
talk of the marriage coming off some time in the winter.

"Well, Fontenoy has earned his prize," said George.

"There are more than twelve years between them. But she seems to be
one of the women who don't age.

I have seen her go through griefs that would kill most women; and it has
been like the passage of a storm over a flower."
"Religion, I suppose, carried to that point, protects one a good deal,"
said George, not, in truth, feeling much interest in the matter or in
Mrs. Allison now that his task was done.

"And especially religion of the type that allows you to give your soul
into someone else's keeping. There is no such anodyne," said Maxwell,
musing. "I have often noticed how Catholic women keep their youth and
softness. But now, do allow me a few words about yourself. Is what I
hear about your withdrawal from Parliament irrevocable?"
George's reply led to a discussion in which Maxwell, without any attempt
at party proselytism, endeavoured to combat all that he could understand
of the young man's twofold disgust, disgust with his own random convictions
no less than with the working of the party machine.

"Where do I belong?" he said. "I don't know myself. I ought never
to have gone in. Anyway, I had better stand aside for a time."
"But evidently the Malford people want to keep you."
"Well, and of course I shall consult their convenience as much as I
can," said George, unwillingly, but would say no more.

Nothing, indeed, could be more flattering, more healing, than all that
was implied in Maxwell's earnestness, in the peculiar sympathy and
kindness with which the elder man strove to win the younger's confidence;
but George could not respond. His whole inner being was too sore; and
his mind ran incomparably more upon the damnable letter that must be lying
somewhere in the archives of the memory of the man talking to him,
than upon his own political prospects. The conversation ended for Maxwell
in mere awkwardness and disappointment,--deep disappointment if the truth
were known. Once roused his idealism was little less stubborn, less
wilful than Marcella's.

When the ladies withdrew, a brilliant group of them stood for a moment
on the first landing of the great oak staircase, lighting candles
and chattering.

Madeleine Penley took her candle absently from Marcella's hand,
saying nothing. The girl's curious face under its crown of gold-red hair
was transformed somehow to an extraordinary beauty. The frightened
parting of the lips and lifting of the brows had become rather a
look of exquisite surprise, as of one who knows at last "the very
heart of love."
"I am coming to you, presently," murmured Marcella, laying her cheek
against the girl's.
"Oh, _do_ come!" said Madeleine, with a great breath, and she walked
away, unsteadily, by herself, into the darkness of the tapestried
passage, her white dress floating behind her.
Marcella looked after her, then turned with shining eyes to Letty
Tressady. Her expression changed.
"I am afraid your headache has been very bad all the evening," she
said penitently. "Do let me come and look after you."
She went with Letty to her room, and put her into a chair beside
the wood fire, that even on this warm night was not unwelcome in
the huge place.
Letty, indeed, shivered a little as she bent towards it.
"Must you go so early?" said Marcella, hanging over her. "I heard
Sir George speak of the ten o'clock train."
"Oh, yes," said Letty, "that will be best."
She stared into the fire without speaking.Reed had no animosity toward
me. He found me too weak to move. He washed me, combed my hair, and
treated me kindly. Indeed, he had no cause to do otherwise. Some of my
portion of the flour brought by Stanton from Sutter's Fort I gave to
Reed's children, and thus saved their lives. When he left me, he
promised to return in two weeks and carry me over the mountains. When
this party left, I was not able to stand, much less to walk."

"A heavy storm came on in a few days after the last relief party left.
Mrs. George Donner had remained with her sick husband in their camp, six
or seven miles away. Mrs. Murphy lived about a week after we were left
alone. When my provisions gave out, I remained four days before I could
taste human flesh. There was no other resort - it was that or death. My
wife and child had gone on with the first relief party. I knew not
whether they were living or dead. They were penniless and friendless in
a strange land. For their sakes I must live, if not for my own. Mrs.
Murphy was too weak to revive. The flesh of starved beings contains
little nutriment. It is like feeding straw to horses. I can not describe
the unutterable repugnance with which I tasted the first mouthful of
flesh. There is an instinct in our nature that revolts at the thought of
touching, much less eating, a corpse. It makes my blood curdle to think
of it! It has been told that I boasted of my shame - said that I enjoyed
this horrid food, and that I remarked that human flesh was more
palatable than California beef. This is a falsehood. It is a horrible,
revolting falsehood. This food was never otherwise than loathsome,
insipid, and disgusting. For nearly two months I was alone in that
dismal cabin. No one knows what occurred but myself - no living being
ever before was told of the occurrences. Life was a burden. The horrors
of one day succeeded those of the preceding. Five of my companions had
died in my cabin, and their stark and ghastly bodies lay there day and
night, seemingly gazing at me with their glazed and staring eyes. I was
too weak to move them had I tried. The relief parties had not removed
them. These parties had been too hurried, too horror-stricken at the
sight, too fearful lest an hour's delay might cause them to share the
same fate. I endured a thousand deaths. To have one's suffering
prolonged inch by inch, to be deserted, forsaken, hopeless; to see that
loathsome food ever before my eyes, was almost too much for human
endurance. I am conversant with four different languages. I speak and
write them with equal fluency; yet in all four I do not find words
enough to express the horror I experienced during those two months, or
what I still feel when memory reverts to the scene. Suicide would have
been a relief, a happiness, a godsend! Many a time I had the muzzle of
my pistol in my mouth and my finger on the trigger, but the faces of my
helpless, dependent wife and child would rise up before me, and my hand
would fall powerless. I was not the cause of my misfortunes, and God
Almighty had provided only this one horrible way for me to subsist."

Did you boil the flesh?

"Yes! But to go into details - to relate the minutiae - is too
agonizing! I can not do it! Imagination can supply these. The necessary
mutilation of the bodies of those who had been my friends, rendered the
ghastliness of my situation more frightful. When I could crawl about and
my lame foot was partially recovered, I was chopping some wood one day
and the ax glanced and cut off my heel. The piece of flesh grew back in
time, but not in its former position, and my foot is maimed to this day.

"A man, before he judges me, should be placed in a similar situation;
but if he were, it is a thousand to one he would perish. A constitution
of steel alone could endure the deprivation and misery. At this time I
was living in the log-cabin with the fireplace. One night I was awakened
by a scratching sound over my head. I started up in terror, and listened
intently for the noise to be repeated. It came again. It was the wolves
trying to get into the cabin to eat me and the dead bodies."

"At midnight, one cold, bitter night, Mrs. George Donner came to my
door. It was about two weeks after Reed had gone, and my loneliness was
beginning to be unendurable. I was most happy to her the sound of a
human voice. Her coming was like that of an angel from heaven. But she
had not come to bear me company. Her husband had died in her arms. She
had remained by his side until death came, and then had laid him out and
hurried away. He died at nightfall, and she had traveled over the snow
alone to my cabin. She was going, alone, across the mountains. She was
going to start without food or guide. She kept saying, 'My children! I
must see my children!' She feared he would not survive, and told me she
had some money in her tent. It was too heavy for her to carry. She said,
'Mr. Keseberg, I confide this to your care.' She made me promise
sacredly that I would get the money and take it to her children in case
she perished and I survived. She declared she would start over the
mountains in the morning. She said, 'I am bound to go to my children.'
She seemed very cold, and her clothes were like ice. I think she had got
in the creek in coming. She said she was very hungry, but refused the
only food I could offer. She had never eaten the loathsome flesh. She
finally lay down, and I spread a feather-bed and some blankets over her.
In the morning she was dead. I think the hunger, the mental suffering,
and the icy chill of the preceding night, caused her death. I have often
been accused of taking her life. Before my God, I swear this is untrue!
Do you think a man would be such a miscreant, such a damnable fiend,
such a caricature on humanity, as to kill this lone woman? There were
plenty of corpses lying around. He would only add one more corpse to the
many!"

"Oh! the days and weeks of horror which I passed in that camp! I had no
hope of help or of being rescued, until I saw the green grass coming up
by the spring on the hillside, and the wild geese coming to nibble it.
The birds were coming back to their breeding grounds, and I felt that I
could kill them for food. I had plenty of guns and ammunition in camp. I
also had plenty of tobacco and a good meerschaum pipe, and almost the
only solace I enjoyed was smoking. In my weak condition it took me two
or three hours every day to get sufficient wood to keep my fire going."

"Some time after Mrs. Donner's death, I thought I had gained sufficient
strength to redeem the pledge I had made her before her death. I started
to go to the camps at Alder Creek to get the money. I had a very
difficult journey. The wagons of the Donners were loaded with tobacco,
powder, caps, shoes, school-books, and dry-goods. This stock was very
valuable, and had it reached California, would have been a fortune to
the Donners. I searched carefully among the bales and bundles of goods,
and found five-hundred and thirty-one dollars. Part of this sum was
silver, part gold. The silver I buried at the foot of a pine tree, a
little way from the camp. One of the lower branches of another tree
reached down close to the ground, and appeared to point to the spot. I
put the gold in my pocket, and started to return to my cabin. I had
spent one night at the Donner tents. On my return I became lost. When it
was nearly dark, in crossing a little flat, the snow suddenly gave way
under my feet, and I sank down almost to my armpits. By means of the
crust on top of the snow, I kept myself suspended by throwing out my
arms. A stream of water flowed underneath the place over which I had
been walking, and the snow had melted on the underside until it was not
strong enough to support my weight. I could not touch bottom with my
feet, and so could form no idea of the depth of the stream. By long and
careful exertion I managed to draw myself backward and up on the snow. I
then went around on the hillside, and continued my journey. At last,
just at dark, completely exhausted and almost dead, I came in sight of
the Graves cabin. I shall never forget my joy at sight of that
log-cabin. I felt that I was no longer lost, and would at least have
shelter. Some time after dark I reached my own cabin. My clothes were
wet by getting in the creek, and the night was so cold that my garments
were frozen into sheets of ice. I was so weary, and chilled, and numbed,
that I did not build up a fire, or attempt to get anything to eat, but
rolled myself up in the bed-clothes and tried to get warm. Nearly all
night I lay there shivering with cold; and when I finally slept, I slept
very soundly. I did not wake up until quite late the next morning. To my
utter astonishment my camp was in the most inexplicable confusion. My
trunks were broken open, and their contents were scattered everywhere.
Everything about the cabin was torn up and thrown about the floor. My
wife's jewelry, my cloak, my pistol and ammunition were missing. I
supposed Indians had robbed my camp during my absence. Suddenly I was
startled by the sound of human voices. I hurried up to the surface of
the snow, and saw white men coming toward the cabin. I was overwhelmed
with joy and gratitude at the prospect of my deliverance. I had suffered
so much, and for so long a time, that I could scarcely believe my
senses. Imagine my astonishment upon their arrival to be greeted, not
with a 'good morning' or a kind word, but with the gruff, insolent
demand, 'Where is Donner's money?'"

"I told them they ought to give me something to eat, and that I would
talk with them afterwards, but no, they insisted that I should tell them
about Donner's money. I asked them who they were, and where they came
from, but they replied by threatening to kill me if I did not give up
the money. They threatened to hang or shoot me, and at last I told them
I had promised Mrs. Donner that I would carry her money to her children,
and I proposed to do so, unless shown some authority by which they had a
better claim. This so exasperated them, that they acted as though they
were going to kill me. I offered to let them bind me as a prisoner, and
take me before the alcalde at Sutter's Fort, and I promised that I would
then tell all I knew about the money. They would listen to nothing,
however, and finally I told them where they would find the silver
buried, and gave them the gold. After I had done this, they showed me a
document from Alcalde Sinclair, by which they were to receive a certain
proportion of all moneys and property which they rescued."

The men spoken of by Keseberg, were the fourth relief party. Their names
were, Captain Fallon, William M. Foster, John Rhodes, J. Foster, R. P.
Tucker, E. Coffeemire, and - Keyser. William M. Foster had recrossed the
mountains the second time, hoping to rescue his wife's mother, Mrs.
Murphy. Alas! he found only her mutilated remains.


Chapter XX.


Dates of the Rescues
Arrival of the Fourth Relief
A Scene Beggaring Description
The Wealth of the Donners
An Appeal to the Highest Court
A Dreadful Shock
Saved from a Grizzly Bear
A Trial for Slander
Keseberg Vindicated
Two Kettles of Human Blood
The Enmity of the Relief Party
"Born under an Evil Star"
"Stone Him! Stone Him!"
Fire and Flood
Keseberg's Reputation for Honesty
A Prisoner in his own House
The Most Miserable of Men


December 16, 1846, the fifteen composing the "Forlorn Hope," left Donner
Lake. January 17, 1847, as they reached Johnson's ranch; and February
5th Capt. Tucker's party started to the assistance of the emigrants.
This first relief arrived February 19th at the cabins; the second
relief, or Reed's party, arrived March 1st; the third, or Foster's,
about the middle of March; and the fourth, or Fallon's, on the
seventeenth of April. Upon the arrival of Capt. Fallon's company, the
sight presented at the cabins beggars all description. Capt. R. P.
Tucker, now of Goleta, Santa Barbara County, Cal., endeavors, in his
correspondence, to give a slight idea of the scene. Human bodies,
terribly mutilated, legs, arms, skulls, and portions of remains, were
scattered in every direction and strewn about the camp. Mr. Foster found
Mrs. Murphy's body with one of her limbs sawed off, the saw still lying
by her remains. It was such scenes as these which gave this party their
first abhorrence for Keseberg. The man was nowhere to be seen, but a
fresh track was discovered in the snow leading away from the cabins
toward the Dormer tents. The party pressed forward to Alder Creek.
Captain Tucker writes: "The dead bodies lay moldering around, being all
that was left to tell the tale of sorrow. On my first trip we had cut
down a large pine tree, and laid the goods of the Donners on this tree
to dry in the sun. These goods lay there yet, with the exception of
those which Reed's party had taken away."

George Donner was wealthy. His wealth consisted not merely of goods, as
many claim, but of a large amount of coin. Hiram Miller, of the relief
parties, is authority for the statement that Mr. Donner owned a quarter
section of land within the present city limits of Chicago. This land was
sold for ten thousand dollars, shortly before Mr. Donner started for
California. Mr. Allen Francis, who has been mentioned as the very best
authority concerning this, family, camped with them on the evening of
their first night's journey out of Springfield, Illinois, saw Mr.
Donner's money, and thinks there was ten thousand dollars. Mrs. F. E.
Bond, of Elk Grove, Sacramento County, California, does not remember the
exact amount, but knows that Mr. Donner started with a great deal of
gold, because she helped make the belts in which it was to be carried in
crossing the plains. The relief parties always understood there was at
Donner's camp a large sum of money, estimated at from six to fourteen
thousand dollars. It is not disputed that Halloran left about fifteen
hundred dollars to this family. Yet Capt. Fallon's party could find no
money. It was clear to their minds that some one had robbed the Donner
tents.

Remaining over night, thoroughly searching in every place where the
supposed money could be concealed, this party returned to Donner Lake.
On their way they found the same mysterious track, also returning to the
cabins. They probably discovered Keseberg in about the manner described.
It is plain to be seen that they regarded him as the murderer of Mrs.
Donner. In forcing him to tell what he had done with the money, they,
too, claim to have choked him, to have put a rope around his neck, and
to have threatened to hang him. On the other hand, if Keseberg's
statement be accepted as truth, it is easy to understand why he refused
to surrender the money to men who treated him from the outset as a
murderer and a robber.

Let the God to whom Lewis Keseberg appeals be his judge. It is not the
part of this book to condemn or acquit him. Most of the fourth relief
party have already gone before the bar at which Keseberg asks to be
tried. Capt. Tucker is about the only available witness, and his
testimony is far more lenient than the rumors and falsehoods usually
published.

If Keseberg be guilty of any or of all crimes, it will presently be seen
that the most revengeful being on earth could not ask that another drop
be added to his cup of bitterness. His statement continues:

"These men treated me with the greatest unkindness. Mr. Tucker was the
only one who took my part or befriended me. When they started over the
mountains, each man carried two bales of goods. They had silks,
calicoes, and delames from the Donners, and other articles of great
value. Each man would carry one bundle a little way, lay it down, and
come back and get the other bundle. In this way they passed over the
snow three times. I could not keep up with them because I was so weak,
but managed to come up to their camp every night. One day I was dragging
myself slowly along behind the party, when I came to a place which had
evidently been used as a camping-ground by some of the previous parties.
Feeling very tired, I thought it would be a good place to make some
coffee. Kindling a fire, I filled my coffee-pot with fresh snow and sat
waiting for it to melt and get hot. Happening to cast my eyes carelessly
around, I discovered a little piece of calico protruding from the snow.
Half thoughtlessly, half out of idle curiosity, I caught hold of the
cloth, and finding it did not come readily, I gave it a strong pull. I
had in my hands the body of my dead child Ada! She had been buried in
the snow, which, melting down, had disclosed a portion of her clothing.
I thought I should go frantic! It was the first intimation I had of her
death, and it came with such a shock!"

"Just as we were getting out of the snow, I happened to be sitting in
camp alone one afternoon. The men were hunting, or attending to their
goods. I was congratulating myself upon my escape from the mountains,
when I was startled by a snuffling, growling noise, and looking up, I
saw a large grizzly bear only a few feet away. I knew I was too weak to
attempt to escape, and so remained where I sat, expecting every moment
he would devour me. Suddenly there was the report of a gun, and the bear
fell dead. Mr. Foster had discovered the animal, and slipping up close
to camp, had killed it."

When the party arrived at Sutter's Fort, they took no pains to conceal
their feelings toward Keseberg. Some of the men openly accused him of
Mrs. Donner's murder. Keseberg, at the suggestion of Captain Sutter,
brought action against Captain Fallon, Ned Coffeemire, and the others,
for slander. The case was tried before Alcalde Sinclair, and the jury
gave Keseberg a verdict of one dollar damages. The old alcalde records
are not in existence, but some of the survivors remember the
circumstance, and Mrs. Samuel Kyburz, now of Clarksville, El Dorado
County, was a witness at the trial. If Keseberg was able to vindicate
himself in an action for slander against the evidence of all the party,
it is clear that such evidence was not adduced as has frequently
appeared in books. For instance, in Captain Fallon's report of this
trip, he alleges that "in the cabin with Keseberg were found two kettles
of human blood, in all supposed to be over one gallon." Had this been
proven, no jury would have found for Keseberg. Fresh blood could not
have been obtained from starved bodies, and had the blood been found,
Keseberg would have been adjudged a murderer.

Speaking upon this point, Keseberg denies the assertion that any blood
was discovered, calls attention to the length of time Mrs. Donner had
been dead, to the readiness with which blood coagulates, and adds that
not a witness testified to such a circumstance at the trial. Why should
Keseberg murder Mrs. Donner? If he wanted her money, it was only
necessary to allow her to go out into the mountains alone, without
provisions, without any one to point out the way, and perish in the
trackless snows. She could not carry any considerable portion of her
money with her, and he, had only to go back to Alder Creek and secure
the treasure. He bears witness that she never tasted human flesh; that
she would not partake of the food he offered; how reasonable, then, the
story of her death. The fourth relief party expected to find a vast sum
of money. One half was to be given them for their trouble. They regarded
the man Keseberg as the murderer of George Foster, because of the
reports given by the little children brought out by the third relief.
The father of this child was with both the third and fourth reliefs.
Arriving at the cabins, they were amazed and horrified at the dreadful
sights. Hastening to the tents, they found no money. Their idea that
Keseberg was a thief was confirmed by his disgorging the money when
threatened with death. There was much reason for their hatred of the man
who crossed the mountains with them, and this was intensified by their
being brought before Alcalde Sinclair and proven slanderers. Out of this
hatred has grown reports which time has magnified into the hideous
falsehoods which greet the ear from all directions. Keseberg may be
responsible for the death of Hardcoop, but urges in his defense that all
were walking, even to the women and the children. He says Hardcoop was
not missed until evening, and that it was supposed the old man would
catch up with the train during the night. The terrible dangers
surrounding the company, the extreme lateness of the season, the
weakness of the oxen, and the constant fear of lurking, hostile Indians,
prevented him or any one else from going back. Keseberg may be
responsible for the death of Wolfinger, of George Foster, of James Eddy,
of Mrs. Murphy, and of Mrs. Tamsen Donner, but the most careful searcher
for evidence can not find the slightest trace of proofs. In his own
mournful language, he comes near the truth when he says:

"I have been born under an evil star! Fate, misfortune, bad luck,
compelled me to remain at Donner Lake. If God would decree that I should
again pass through such an ordeal, I could not do otherwise than I did.
My conscience is free from reproach. Yet that camp has been the one
burden of my life. Wherever I have gone, people have cried, 'Stone him!
stone him!' Even the little children in the streets have mocked me and
thrown stones at me as I passed. Only a man conscious of his innocence,
and clear in the sight of God, would not have succumbed to the terrible
things which have been said of me - would not have committed suicide!
Mortification, disgrace, disaster, and unheard-of misfortune have
followed and overwhelmed me. I often think that the Almighty has singled
me out, among all the men on the face of the earth, in order to see how
much hardship, suffering, and misery a human being can bear!"

"Soon after my arrival at the Fort, I took charge of the schooner
Sacramento, and conveyed wheat from Sacramento to San Francisco, in
payment of Capt. Sutter's purchase of the Russian possessions. I worked
seven months for Sutter; but, although he was kind to me, I did not get
my money. I then went to Sonoma, and worked about the same length of
time for Gen. Vallejo. I had a good position and good prospects, but
left for the gold mines. Soon afterward I was taken sick, and for eight
months was an invalid. I then went to Sutter's Fort and started a
boarding-house. I made money rapidly. After a time I built a house south
of the Fort, which cost ten thousand dollars. In 1851 I purchased the
Lady Adams hotel, in Sacramento. It was a valuable property, and I
finally sold it at auction for a large sum of money. This money was to
be paid the next day. The deeds had already passed. That night the
terrible fire of 1852 occurred, and not only swept away the hotel, but
ruined the purchaser, so that I could not collect one cent. I went back
to Sutter's Fort and started the Phoenix Brewery. I succeeded, and
acquired considerable property. I finally sold out for fifty thousand
dollars. I had concluded to take this money, go back to Germany, and
live quietly the rest of my days. The purchaser went to San Francisco to
draw the money. The sale was effected eight days before the great flood
of 1861-2. The flood came, and I lost everything."

Thus, throughout his entire career, have business reverses followed
Lewis Keseberg. Several times he has been wealthy and honorably
situated. At one time he was a partner of Sam. Brannan, in a mammoth
distillery at Calistoga; and Mr. Brannan is one among many who speak in
highest terms of his honesty, integrity, and business capacity. On the
thirtieth of January, 1877, Phillipine Keseberg, his faithful wife,
died. This was the severest loss of all, as will presently be seen.

Eleven children were born to them, and four are now living. One of
these, Lillie, now lives in Sacramento with her husband. Another,
Paulina, a widow, resides in San Rafael. Bertha and Augusta live with
the father at Brighton, Sacramento County. Both these children are
hopelessly idiotic. Bertha is twenty-six years of age, and has never
uttered an intelligible word. Augusta is fifteen years old, weighs two
hundred and five pounds, and possesses only slight traces of
intelligence. Teething spasms, occurring when they were about two years
old, is the cause of their idiocy. Both are subject to frequent and
violent spasms or epileptic fits. They need constant care and attention.
Should Bertha's hand fall into the fire, she has not sufficient
intelligence to withdraw it from the flames. Both are helpless as
children. The State provides for insane, but not for idiots. Keseberg
says a bill setting aside a ward in the State Asylum for his two
children, passed the Legislature, but received a pocket veto by the
Governor. Sacramento County gives them eighteen dollars a month. Their
helplessness and violence render it impossible to keep any nurse in
charge of them longer than a few days. Keseberg is very poor. He has
employment for perhaps three months during the year. While his wife
lived, she took care of these children; but now he has personally to
watch over them and provide for their necessities. While at work, he is
compelled to keep them locked in a room in the same building. They
scream so loudly while going into the spasms that he can not dwell near
other people. He therefore lives isolated, in a plain little house back
of his brewery. Here he lives, the saddest, loneliest, most pitiable
creature on the face of the earth. He traces all his misfortunes to that
cabin on Donner Lake, and it is little wonder that he says: "I beg of
you, insert in your book a fervent prayer to Almighty God that He will
forever prevent the recurrence of a similar scene of horror."


Chapter XXI.


Sketch of Gen. John A. Sutter
The Donner Party's Benefactor
The Least and Most that Earth can Bestow
The Survivors' Request
His Birth and Parentage
Efforts to Reach California
New Helvetia
A Puny Army
Uninviting Isolation
Ross and Bodega
Unbounded Generosity
Sutter's Wealth
Effect of the Gold Fever
Wholesale Robbery
The Sobrante Decision
A "Genuine and Meritorious" Grant
Utter Ruin
Hock Farm
Gen. Sutter's Death
Mrs. E. P. Houghton's Tribute.


Zealous in sending supplies and relief to the suffering Donner Party,
earnest in providing shelter, clothing, and food to all who were
rescued, Captain John A. Sutter merits more than a passing mention in
this history. From the arrival of Stanton at Sutter's Fort with the
tidings that a destitute emigrant train was en route for California
until the return of the fourth relief party with Lewis Keseberg, Captain
Sutter's time, wealth, and influence were enlisted in behalf of the
party. Actuated only by motives of benevolence and humanity, he gave
Stanton and the various relief parties full and free access to whatever
he possessed, whether of money, provisions, clothing, mules, cattle, or
guides. With all due deference to the generosity of Yerba Buena's
citizens, and to the heroic endeavors of the noble men who risked their
lives in rescuing the starving emigrants, it is but just and right that
this warm-hearted philanthropist should be accorded the honor of being
first among the benefactors of the Donner Party. His kindness did not
cease with the arrival of the half-starved survivors at Sutter's Fort,
but continued until all had found places of employment, and means of
subsistence. Pitiful and unworthy is the reward which history can bestow
upon such a noble character, yet since he never received any
remuneration for his efforts and sacrifices, the reward of a noble name
is the least and the most that earth can now bestow. In view of his good
deeds, the survivors of the Donner Party have almost unanimously
requested that a brief biographical sketch of the man be inserted in
these pages.

At midnight on the twenty-eighth of February (or first of March), 1803,
John A. Sutter was born in the city of Baden. He was of Swiss parentage,
and his father and mother, were of the Canton Berne. Educated in Baden,
we find him at the age of thirty a captain in the French army. Filled
with enthusiasm, energy, and love of adventure, his eyes turned toward
America as his "land of promise," and in July, 1834, he arrived in New
York. Again breaking away from the restraints of civilized life, he soon
made his way to the then almost unknown regions west of the Mississippi.
For some years he lived near St. Charles, in Missouri. At one time he
entertained the idea of establishing a Swiss colony at this point, and
was only prevented by the sinking of his vessel of supplies in the
Mississippi River. During this time he accompanied an exploring party
into the sultry, sand-covered wastes of New Mexico. Here he met hunters
and trappers from California, and listened to tales of its beauty,
fertility, and grandeur which awoke irresistible longings in his breast.
In March, 1838, with Captain Tripp, of the American Fur Company, he
traveled westward as far as the Rocky Mountains, and thence journeying
with a small party of trappers, finally reached Fort Vancouver. Finding
no land route to California, he embarked in a vessel belonging to the
Hudson Bay Company, which was ready for a voyage to the Sandwich
Islands. Altogether he reached a fine flight! Then he got violent--tried
to get at me with his knobbed stick. Ashton and I, and the men
with him, succeeded in quelling him without bothering the police.--I
don't think anything more will come of it."
And he stretched out his hand to some salted almonds, helping himself
with particular deliberation.

After dinner, however, he lay down on a sofa in Letty's sitting-room,
obliged to confess himself worn out. She made him comfortable, and after
she had given him a cushion, she suddenly bent over him from behind
and kissed him.

"Come here!" he said, with a smile, throwing up his hand to catch her.
But with an odd blush and conscious look, she eluded him.

When, a little later, she came to sit by him with some needle-work
she found him restless and inclined to talk.

"I wonder if we are always to live in this state of war for one's
bread and butter!" he said, impatiently throwing down a newspaper he
had been reading. "It doesn't tend to make life agreeable--does it?

Yet what on earth--"
He threw back his head, with a stiff protesting air, staring across
the room.

Letty had the sudden impression that he was not talking to her at all,
but to some third person, unseen.

"_Either_ capital gets its fair remuneration"--he went on in an argumentative
voice--"and ability its fair wages--_or_ the Marxian state, labour-notes,
and the rest of it. There is no half-way house--absolutely none. As for
me, I am not going to lend my capital for nothing--nor to give my
superintendence for nothing. And I don't ask exorbitant pay for either.
It is quite simple. My conscience is quite clear."

"I should think so!" said Letty, resentfully. "I wonder whether
Marcella--is all for the men? She has never mentioned the strike in
her letters."
As the Christian name slipped out, she flushed, and he was conscious
of a curious start. But the breaking through of a long reticence was
deliberate on Letty's part.

"Very likely she is all for the men," he said drily, after a pause.
"She never could take a strike calmly. Her instinct always was to
catch hold of any stick that could beat the employers--Watton and I
used often to tease her about it."
He threw himself back against the sofa, with a little laugh that was
musical in Letty's ear. It was the first time that Lady Maxwell's name
had been mentioned between them in this trivial, ordinary way. The
young wife sat alert and straight at her work, her cheek still pink,
her eyes bright.

But after a silence, George suddenly sprang up to pace the little
room, and she heard him say, under his breath, "_But who am I, that
I should be coercing them and trampling on them!

--men old enough to be my father--driving them down to-morrow--while
I sleep--for a dog's wage!_"
"George, what is the matter with you?" she cried, looking at him in
real anxiety.

"Nothing! _nothing!_--Darling, who's ill? I saw the old doctor on
the road home, and he threw me a word as he passed about having been
here--looked quite jolly over it. What's wrong--one of the servants?"
Letty put down her work upon her knee and her hands upon it.

She grew red and pale; then she turned away from him, pressing her
face into the back of her chair.

He flew to her, and she murmured in his ear.

* * * * *
What she said was by no means all sweetness. There was mingled with it
much terror and some anger. Letty was not one of the women who take
maternity as a matter of course.

But emotion and natural feeling had their way. George was dissolved in
joy. He threw himself at her feet, resting his head against her
knee.

"If he doesn't have your eyes and hair I'll disinherit him," he said,
with a gaiety which seemed to have effaced all his fatigue.

"I don't want him," was her pettish reply; "but if _she_ has your chin,
I'll put her out to nurse. Oh! how I hate the thought of it!" and she
shuddered.

He caught her hand, comforting her. Then, putting up both his own, he drew
her down to him.

"After all, little woman, it hasn't turned out so badly?" he said in
her ear, with sad appeal. Their lips met, trembling. Suddenly Letty
broke into passionate weeping.

George sprang up, gathered her upon his knee, and they sat for long, in
silence, clinging to each other.

At last Letty drew back from him, pushing a hand against his shoulder.

"You know--you didn't care a bit for me--when you married me," she said,
half bitter, half crying.

"Didn't I? And you?" he asked, raising his eyebrows.

"Oh! I don't remember!" she said hurriedly, and dropped her face on his
coat again.

"Well, we are going to care for each other," he said in a low voice,
after a pause. "That's what matters now, isn't it?"
She made no reply, but she put up a hand, and touched his face.

He turned his lips to the hand and kissed it tenderly. There was
a sore, sad spot in each heart; and neither dared to look forward.
But tonight there was a sense of belonging to each other in a new
and sacred way, of being drawn apart, separated from the world, husband
and wife, together.

Through George's mind there wandered half-astonished thoughts about this
strange compelling power of marriage,--the deep grip it makes on life--the
almost mechanical way in which it bears down resistance, provided
only that certain compunctions, certain scruples still remain for
it to work on.

George slept lightly, being over-tired. All through the night the vision
of the beaten men going down sullenly to their first shift seemed to hold
him as though in a nightmare.

Between seven and eight o'clock a sound startled him. He found himself
standing by his bed, struggling to wake and collect himself.

A sound that had shaken the house, passing like a dull thud through the
valley? A horror seized him. He looked at Letty, who was fast asleep;
then he walked noiselessly into his dressing-room, and began to hurry
on his clothes.

Five minutes later he was running down the hill at his full speed.
It was bitterly cold and still; the first snow lay on the grass,
and a raw grey veil hung over the hills. As he came in sight of the
distant pit-bank he saw a crowd of women swarming up it; a confused
and hideous sound of crying and shrieking came to his ears; and at
the same moment a boy, panting and dead-white, ran through the
lodge-gates to meet him.

"Where is it, Sprowston?"
"Oh, sir, it's No. 2 pit. The damp's comin up the upcast, and the
cage is blown to pieces. But the down shaft's all right, and Mr. Madan
and Mr.
Macgregor were starting down as I come away. There was eighty-six men and
boys went down first shift."

George groaned, and rushed on.

CHAPTER XXIV

England knows these scenes too well!

When Tressady, out of breath with running, reached the top of the bank,
and threw a hurried look in front of him, his feeling was that he had
seen everything before--the wintry dawn, the crowds of pale men and
weeping women ranged on either hand, the police keeping the ground round
the shafts clear for the mine officials--even the set white face
of his manager, who, with Macgregor the fireman and two hewers, had
just emerged from the cage that was waiting at the mouth of the
downcast shaft.

As soon as Madan saw Tressady rounding the corner of the engine-house he
hurried towards his employer.

"Have you been down yet?" Tressady cried to him.

"Just come up, sir. We got about fifty yards--air fairly good--then we
found falls along the main intake. We got over three or four, till the
damp rose on us too bad--we had a rough bit getting back. I thought
you'd be here by now. Macgregor thinks from the direction in which
things were lying that the blast had come from Holford's Heading
or thereabouts."

And the manager hastily opened a map of the colliery he was carrying in
his hand against the wall of the engine-house, and pointed to the spot.

"How many men there?"
"About thirty-two in the workings round about--as near as I can reckon
it."

"Any sign of the rest? How many went down?"
   "Eighty-six. A cageful of men and lads--just them from the
shaft-bottom--got up immediately after the explosion. Since then,
not a sound from anyone! The uptake shaft is chock-full
   of damp. Mitchell, in the fan-room, had to run
   for it at first, it was coming up so fast."
"Good God!" said George, under his breath; and the two men
   eyed each other painfully.
                                                          
                                                          "Have you sent for the inspector?"

said Tressady, after a moment.

"He ought to be here in five minutes now, sir."
"Got some baulks together?"
"The men are piling them by the shaft at this moment."
"Fan uninjured?"
"Yes, sir--and speed increased."

Followed by Madan, Tressady walked up to the shaft, and himself questioned
Macgregor and the two hewers.

Then he beckoned to Madan, and the two walked in close converse towards
the lamphouse, discussing a plan of action. As they passed slowly along
the bank the eyes of the miserable terror-stricken throng to either
side followed every movement. But there was not a sound from anyone.
Once Tressady looked up and caught the faces of some men near him--dark
faces, charged with a meaning that seemed instantly to stiffen his
own nerve for what he had to do.

"I give Dixon three more minutes," he said, impatiently looking at his
watch; "then we go down without him."

Dixon was the inspector. He was well known throughout the district,
a plucky, wiry fellow, who was generally at the pit's mouth immediately
after an accident, ready and keen to go with any rescue party on any
errand, however dangerous--purely, as he himself declared, for
professional and scientific reasons. In this case, he lived only a
mile away, on the further side of the village, so that Madan's messenger
had not far to go.

As he spoke, George felt his arm clutched from behind. He turned, and
saw Mary Batchelor, who had come forward from a group of women.

"Sir George! Listen 'ere, Sir George." Her lined face and tear-blurred
eyes worked with a passion of entreaty. "The boy went down at five
with the rest. Don't yer bear 'im no malice. Ee's a poor sickly creetur,
an the Lord an't give 'im the full use of his wits."
George smiled at the poor thing's madness, and touched her kindly
on the shoulder.

"Don't you trouble yourself, Mary; all that can be done will be done--for
everybody. We are only giving Mr. Dixon another minute; then we go
down.
Look here"--he drew her inside the door of the lamproom, which happened
to be close by, for an open-mouthed group, eager to hear whatever he
might be saying, had begun to press about them. "Can you take this
message from me up to the house? There'll be no news here, you know, for
a long time, and I left Lady Tressady asleep."
He tore a half-sheet from the letter in his pocket, scribbled a
few words upon it, and put it into Mary's hand.

The woman, with her shawl over her head, ran past the lamphouse
towards the entrance-gate as fast as her age would let her, while
George rejoined Madan.

"Ah, there he is!"
For the small, lean figure of the inspector was already passing the
gate.

Tressady hurried to meet him.

By the time the
first questions and answers
were over, Tressady,
looking round for
Madan, saw that the manager was
speaking angrily
to a tall man in a rough
coat and corduroy trousers who had
entered the pit premises
in the wake of Mr. Dixon.

"You take
yourself off, Mr.
Burrows!
You're not wanted
here."
"Madan!"

called Tressady, "attend to Mr. Dixon, please. I'll see to that man."

And he walked up to Burrows, while the men standing near crowded over
the line they had been told to keep.

"What do you want?" he said, as he reached the newcomer.

"I have come to offer myself for the rescue party. I've been a
working miner for years. I've had special experience in accidents before.
I can beat anybody here in physical strength."
As he spoke the great heavily built fellow looked round him, and a murmur
of assenting applause came from the bystanders.

Tressady studied him.

"Are you fit?" he said shortly.

Burrows flushed.

Tressady's penetrating look forced his own to meet it.

"As fit as you are," was his haughty reply.

"Well"--said Tressady, slowly, "we don't want to be refusing strong men.

If Madan'll have you, you shall come. Mind, we're all under his
orders."

He went to the manager, and said a word in his ear. Madan, in response,
vouchsafed neither look nor remark to the man, whom he hated
apparently more bitterly than his employer did. But he made no further
objection to his joining the search party.

Presently all preparations were made. Picked bands of firemen and
timbermen descended first, with Madan at their head. Then George,
Mr.
Dixon, a couple of local doctors who had hurried up to offer their services,
and Burrows.

As they shot down into the darkness George was conscious of a strange
exhilaration. Working on the indications given him by the first exploring
party, his mind was alive with conjectures as to the cause of the accident,
and with plans for dealing with the various obstacles that might occur.
Never during these weeks of struggle and noise and objurgation had
he felt so fit, so strenuous. At the bottom of the shaft he had
even to remind himself, with a shudder, of the dead men who must
be waiting for them in these blank depths.

For some little distance from the shaft nothing was to be seen that
spoke of an explosion. Some lamps in the porch of the shaft and along the
main roadway were burning as usual, and the "journey" of trucks,
from which the "hookers-on" and engine-men had escaped at the first
sign of danger, was standing laden in the entrance of the mine.

The door of the under-manager's cabin, near the base of the shaft, was
open. Madan looked into the little den, where the lamp was still burning
on the wall, and groaned. The young fellow who was generally to be found
there was a great friend of his, and they attended the same chapel together.
A little farther an open cupboard was noticed with a wisp of spun
yarn hanging out from it--inflammable stuff, quite untouched. But about
thirty yards farther they came upon the first signs of mischief.
A heavy fall of roof had to be scrambled over, and beyond it afterdamp
was clearly perceptible.

Here there was an exclamation from Burrows, who was to the front, and the
first victim showed out of the dark in the pale glow-worm light of
the lamps turned upon him. A man lay on his side, close against the
wall, with an unlocked lamp in his hands, which were badly burnt. But
no other part of him was burnt, and it was clear that he had died
of afterdamp in trying to escape. He had evidently come from one
of the nearer work-places, and fallen within a few yards of safety.
The inspector pounced upon the lamp at once, while the doctors knelt
by the body. But in itself the lamp told little. If it were the
illegal unlocking of a lamp that caused the disaster, neither this
lamp nor this man could be at fault; for he had died clearly on the
verge of the explosion area, and from the after-effects of the
calamity. But the inspector, who had barely looked at the dead man,
turned the lamp round in his hands, dissatisfied.
"Bad pattern! bad pattern! If I had my way I'd fine every manager
whose lamps _could_ be unlocked," he said to himself, but quite
audibly.
"The fireman may have unlocked it, sir, to re-light his own or
someone else's," said Madan, stiffly, put at once on his defence.
"Oh! I know you're within your legal right, Mr. Madan," said the
inspector, briskly. "_I_ haven't the making of the laws."
And he sat down on the floor, taking the lamp to pieces, and bending
his shrewd, black-eyed face over it, all the time that the doctors
were examining its owner. He was, perhaps, one of the most humane
men in his profession, but a long experience had led him to the
conclusion that in these emergencies the fragments of a lamp, or a
"tamping," or a "shot," matter more to the community than dead
men.
Meanwhile George crouched beside the doctors, watching them. The
owner of the lamp was a strong, fair-haired young man, without a
mark on him except for the burning of the hands, the eyes quietly
shut, the face at peace. One of the colliers in the search party
had burst out crying when he saw him. The lad was his nephew, and
had been a favourite in the pit, partly because of his prowess as
a football player. But the young life had gone out irrevocably. The
doctor shook his head as he lifted himself, and they left him there,
in order not to waste any chance of getting out the living
first.
Twenty yards farther on three more bodies were found, two oldish
men and a boy, very little burnt. They also had been killed in
escaping, dragged down by the inexorable afterdamp.
A little beyond this group a fall of mingled stone and coal from
the roof blocked the way so heavily that the hewers and timbermen
had to be set to work to open out and shore up before a passage
could be made. Meanwhile the air in the haulage road was clearing
fast, and George could sit on a lump of stone and watch the dim
light playing on the figures of the men at work. The blows struck
echoed from floor to roof; the work of the bare arms and backs, as
they swayed and jerked, woke a clamour in the mine.
Were there any ears still to listen for them beyond that mass? He
could scarcely keep a limb quiet, as he sat looking on, for impatience
and excitement. Burrows meanwhile was wielding a pick with the rest,
and George envied him the bodily skill and strength that, in spite
of his irregular ways of life, were still left to him.
To restore the ventilation-current was their first object, and the
foremost pick had no sooner gained the roadway on the other side
than a strong movement of the air was perceptible. Madan's face
cleared. The ventilation circuit between the downcast and upcast
shafts must be already in some sort re-established. Let them only
get a few more "stoppings" and brattices put temporarily to rights,
and the fan, working at its increased speed, would soon drive the
renewed air-currents forward again, and make it possible to get all
over the mine. The hole made was quickly enlarged, and the rescuers
scrambled through.
But still fall after fall on the further side delayed their progress,
and the work of repairing the blown-out stoppings by such wood
brattice as could be got at, was long and tedious. The rescuers
toiled and sweated, pausing every now and then to draw upon the
food and drink sent up from behind; and the hours flew unheeded.
At last, upon the further side of one of the worst of these falls--a
loose mingled mass of rock and coal--they came on indications that
showed them they had reached the centre and heart of the disaster.
A door leading on the right to one of the side-roads of the pit
known as Holford's Heading was blown outwards, and some trucks from
the heading had been dashed across the main intake, and piled up
in a huddled and broken mass against the farther wall. Just inside
that door lay victim after victim, mostly on their faces, poor
fellows! as they had come running out from their stalls at the noise
of the explosion, only to meet the fiery blast that killed them.
Two or three had been flung violently against the sides of the
heading, and were left torn, with still bleeding wounds, as well
as charred and blackened by the flame. Of sixteen men and boys that
lay in this place of death, not one had survived to hear the stifled
words--half groans, half sobs, of the comrades who had found
them.
"But, thank God! no torture, no _thought_," said George to himself
as he went from face to face; "an instant--a flash--then nothingness."

Many of the men were well known to him. He had seen them last hanging
about the village street, pale with famine--the hatred in their
eyes pursuing him.
He knelt down an instant beside an elderly man whom he could remember
since he was quite a boy--a weak-eyed, sallow fellow, much given
to preaching--much given, too, it was said, to beating his wife and
children, as the waves of excitement took him.These melancholy duties to the dead being performed,
the cabins, by order of Major Swords, were fired, and with everything
surrounding them connected with this horrid and melancholy tragedy were
consumed. The body of George Donner was found at his camp, about eight
or ten miles distant, wrapped in a sheet. He was buried by a party of
men detailed for that purpose."

To carefully lay out her husband's body, and tenderly enfold it in a
winding-sheet, was the last act of devotion to her husband which was
performed by Tamsen Donner.

With varying incidents and episodes, the immigrants all reached Sutter's
Fort. One very attractive young lady received a proposal of marriage
while doing her best to manage the rebellious mule on which she was
riding. The would-be lover pleaded his case well, considering the
adverse circumstances, but the young lady gave not her consent.

Twenty-six, and possibly twenty-eight, out of the forty-eight survivors,
are living to-day. Noah James is believed to be alive, and John Baptiste
was living only a short time since, at Ukiah, Mendocino County,
California. Besides these two, there are twenty-six whose residences are
known. William McCutchen, who came from Jackson County, Missouri, is
hale and strong, and is a highly-respected resident of San Jose,
California. Mr. McCutchen is a native of Nashville, Tennessee, was about
thirty years old at the time of the disaster, and has a clear, correct
recollection of all that transpired. Lewis Keseberg's history has been
pretty fully outlined in his statement. He resides in Brighton,
Sacramento County, California.

In May, 1847, Mary A. Graves married Edward Pile. He was murdered by a
Spaniard in 1848, and this Spaniard was the first person hanged in
California under the laws of the United States. In 1851 or 1852 Mrs.
Pile married J. T. Clarke. Their children are: Robert F., born in 1852,
who is married and living at White River, Tulare County Cal.; Mattie,
born in 1854, and now the wife of P. Bequette, Jr., of Visalia: James
Thomas, born in 1857; an infant, who died soon after birth; Belle, born
in 1860, and died in 1871; Alexander R., born in 1865, and Daniel M.,
born in 1872. Mrs. M. A. Clarke's address is White River, Tulare County,
California.

Eleanor Graves married William McDonnell about the first of September,
1849. Their children are: Ann, born September, 1850; Charles, born in
1852; Mary, born in 1855, married to Lester Green, January 2, 1878, and
now living on the Sacramento River, about seventeen miles below the
city; Lillie, born April 14, 1857, died in February, 1873; Franklin,
born in 1860, died in March, 1873; Henry, born July, 1864; Eleanor, born
July, 1868; Leslie, born October, 1872, died March, 1873; Louisa, born
in 1878. Mrs. Eleanor McDonnell and family reside in Knights Valley,
Sonoma County. Their address is Calistoga, California.

Lovina Graves married John Cyrus June 5, 1856. Their children are: Henry
E., born April 12, 1859; James W., born February 16, 1861; Mary A., born
April 26, 1863; Sarah Grace, born December 11, 1866; and Rachel E., born
January 27, 1873. Their address is Calistoga.

Nancy Graves married Rev. R. W. Williamson in 1855. Their eldest,
George, is an artist in Virginia City; Emily is teaching school in
Knights Valley; Kate, Frederick, and Lydia Pearl are residing with their
parents at Los Gatos, Santa Clara County, Cal.

William C. Graves is a blacksmith, living at Calistoga. He visited
Truckee this spring, examined the sites of the different cabins, and has
rendered most valuable assistance in the preparation of this history.

The Murphys have always been well and favorably known in the best
society of California. Mrs. Harriet F. Pike was married at Sutter's
Fort, in 1847, by Alcalde Sinclair, to M. C. Nye. Prior to the discovery
of gold, they lived about three miles above Marysville, which, at this
time, bore the name of Nye's Ranch. Mrs. Nye died in 1872, at Dalles,
Oregon, and her remains were brought to Marysville and laid in the city
cemetery. Naomi L. Pike was married, in 1865, to Dr. Mitchell, of
Marysville, moved to Oregon, became a widow, and is now the wife of John
L. Schenck. Her address is, The Dalles, Wasco County, Oregon.

Mary M. Murphy was married, in 1848, to C. Covillaud, then of Nye's
Ranch, Cal. In 185o the city of Marysville was laid out, and was named
in honor of Mrs. Mary Covillaud. After lives of distinguished honor, Mr.
and Mrs. Covillaud died, but there are now living five of their
children. Mary Ellen is married to a prominent stock dealer, of Dalles,
Oregon; Charles J., a very bright and promising young man, is in the law
office of his uncle, William G. Murphy; William P., Frank M., and Naomi
S., are all living at Dalles, Oregon. William G. Murphy resided at
Marysville until 1849, when he went east to receive an education. He
graduated with high honors at the State University of Missouri. He was
married in Tennessee, returned to the Pacific Coast in 1858, and in 1863
was duly admitted a member of the bar of the Supreme Court of Nevada. He
resided and practiced his profession at Virginia City until in the fall
of 1866, when he returned to Marysville, Cal. He now holds the position
of City Attorney, and has an excellent and remunerative practice. He has
a beautiful and charming home, and his family consists of himself, his
wife, and seven children. His eldest, Lulie T., was born in the
Territory of Nevada, and his second child, Kate Nye, was born in Nevada
subsequent to its admission as a State. William G., Jr., Charles
Mitchell, Ernest, Harriet F., and Leander B. were born in Marysville.

Simon P. Murphy went back to Tennessee, and married at his old home. He
served in the Union army. He died in 1873, leaving a wife and five
children.

William M. Foster gave his name to Foster's Bar, on the Yuba River. He
died in 1874, of cancer. Of the children of Mr. and Mrs. Foster, there
are now living, Alice, born in 1848; Georgia, born in 1850; Will, born
in 1852; Minnie, born in 1855; and Hattie, born in 1858. Mrs. S. A. C.
Foster has been residing in San Francisco, but her present address is,
care of her brother, Wm. G. Murphy, Marysville.

Mr. and Mrs. Reed settled with their family in San Jose, California.
Mrs. Margaret Reed died on the twenty-fifth of November, 1861, and her
husband, James F. Reed, on the twenty-fourth of July, 1874. They are
buried side by side, their coffins touching. Mrs. Reed died with her
entire family gathered about her bedside, and few death-bed scenes ever
recorded were more peaceful. As she entered the dark waters, all about
her seemed suddenly bright. She spoke of the light, and asked that the
windows be darkened. The curtains were arranged by those about her, but
a moment afterward she said, "Never mind; I see you can not shut out the
bright light which I see." Looking up at the faces of her husband and
children, she said very slowly, "I expect, when I die, I will die this
way, just as if I was going to sleep. Wouldn't it be a blessing if I
did?" The last words were uttered just as the soul took its flight.
Thomas K. Reed and James F. Reed, Jr., reside in San Jose, Cal. The
latter was married March 16, 1879, to Sarah Adams. Virginia E. Reed was
married on the twenty-sixth of January, 1850, to J. M. Murphy. Their
children's names are, Mary M., Lloyd M., Mattie H., John M., Virginia
B., J. Ada, Dan James, Annie Mabel, and T. Stanley. Lloyd, Mattie, and
Mabel are sleeping in Oak Hill Cemetery, at San Jose, Cal. Mary was
married to P. McAran, June 28, 1869. Mr. McAran is one of the directors
of the Hibernia Bank, and resides in San Francisco. John M. Murphy, Jr.,
was married April 1, 1880, to Miss Hattie E. Watkins. Martha J. (Patty)
Reed was married at Santa Cruz, Cal., December 25, 1856, to Mr. Frank
Lewis. They had eight children: Kate, born October 6, 1857; Margaret B.,
born June 6, 1860; Frank, born March 22, 1862; Mattie J., born April 6,
1864; James Frazier, born August 31, 1866; a babe, born May 30, 1868,
who died in infancy; Carrie E., born September 15, 1870; and Susan A.,
born December 31, 1873. Mr. Lewis died June 18, 1876. Mrs. Lewis and her
children reside at San Jose.

Wm. H. Eddy married Mrs. F. Alfred, at Gilroy, California, in July,
1848. They had three children: Eleanor P., James P., and Alonzo H.
Eleanor married S. B. Anderson, in 1871, and resides in San Jose. James
married in 1875, and with his wife and two children resides in San Jose.
Alonzo is a physician in Monument, Colorado. In 1854, Mr. and Mrs. Eddy
separated, and in 1856 he married Miss A. M. Pardee, of St. Louis. Mr.
Eddy died December 24, 1859, at, Petaluma, California.

Patrick Breen removed with his family from Sutter's Fort early in 1848,
and permanently settled at the Mission of San Juan Bautista, in San
Benito County, California. Mr. Breen, lived to see all his children grow
to maturity and become happily established in life. On the twenty-first
of December, 1868, he peacefully closed his eyes to this world,
surrounded by every member of his family, all of whom he preceded to the
tomb.

All the surviving members. of the Breen family are still residing at or
near San Juan. John Breen married in 1852. His family, consisting of his
wife and ten children, are all living. His children's names are: Lillie
M., Edward P., John J., Thomas F., Adelaide A., Kate, Isabelle,
Gertrude, Charlotte, and Ellen A. Breen. Edward J. Breen married, in
1858. His wife died in 1862; leaving the following children: Eugene T.,
Edward J., and John Roger. Patrick Breen, Jr., married in 1865; his wife
is living, and their children are Mary, William, Peter, Eugene. Simon P.
Breen married in 1867; his wife is living; their children are Geneva and
Mary. James F. Breen, the present Superior Judge of San Benito County,
married in 1870; his wife is living; their only surviving children are
Margaret and Grace. Peter Breen died, unmarried, on July 3, 1870, by
accidental death. Isabella M. Breen was married in 1869, to Thomas
McMahon, and with her husband resides at Hollister, San Benito County.
William M. Breen, whose portrait appears in the group of the Breen
family, was born in San Juan in 1848, and was not of the Donner Party.
He married in 1874, leaving a widow, and one child, Mary.

Margaret Breen, the heroic woman, devoted wife, and faithful mother, had
the satisfaction of living to see her infant family, for whose
preservation she had struggled so hard and wrought so ceaselessly, grow
to manhood and womanhood. In prosperity, as in adversity, she was ever
good, kind, courageous, and "affable to the congregation of the Lord."
She was always, self-reliant, and equal to the most trying emergencies;
and yet, at all times, she had a deep and abiding faith in God, and
firmly relied on the mercy and goodness of Him to whom she prayed so
ardently and confidently in the heavy hours of her tribulation. The hope
of her later years was that she might not be required to witness the
death of any of her children; but it was willed differently, as two of
them preceded her to the grave. April 13, 1874, ripe in years, loved by
the poor, honored and respected by all for her virtues and her
well-spent life, she quietly and peacefully passed from the midst of her
sorrowing family to the other and better shore.

The following lines from the pen of Miss Marcella A. Fitzgerald, the
gifted poetess of Notre Dame Convent, San Jose, were published in the
San Francisco Monitor, at the time of Mrs. Breen's death:

In Memoriam.

Mrs. Margaret Breen.

The spring's soft light, its tender, dreamy beauty
   Veils all the land around us, and the dome
Of the blue skies is ringing with the music
   Of birds that come to seek their summer home.

But one whose heart this beauty often gladdened
   No more shall see the fragrant flowers expand;
For her no more of earth - but fairer portion
   Is hers, the beauty of the Better Land;

The beauty of that land to which with yearning
   Her true heart turned in faith and trust each day
The land whose hope a glorious bow of promise
   Illumed her path across life's desert way.

What if--shudder--it attacked rice?) the
   Reds would scream murder. They'd yell germ
warfare, and have us cold. They could ship us
   opium by the long ton--that didn't affect the delicate condition,
though

.
   
* * * * *
   It seemed to me, however, that there was something ambiguous and
wistful in the State man's attitude, and I thought I understood.

When a country sends a spy to do some dirty
   job, they disown him officially if he is
caught. Except for that U-2 fiasco some years ago,
   when the U.S. broke all the unwritten rules and made jackasses of
us before the world.

Now, obviously, if I killed all the poppies in the
   world, that would be a fait accompli.
Washington could deny knowing anything about
   the cause of death, especially since it would work indiscriminately
even in friendly parts of Asia.

Just as long as I got my hundred thousand, I didn't
   mind skipping the official credit. In fact,
it would keep the Syndicate off my back.
   

"Suppose," I said, "on my own responsibility, I
   release the spores and ruin the opium trade
for good. Will you see that I get paid?"
   He was horrified.

In the first place, nothing whatever could be done until the virus
had been checked out by government scientists.

If I would give him the virus, and my notes, he'd
start the ball rolling. I
know that Washington ball;
it's all angles, and doesn't
roll worth a damn.
I went cold at the thought.
Before you can get an okay on
anything big from a
bureau there, your
long, grey beard will
be sweeping the floor.
   

For a moment I was tempted to take my plans to England, but then remembered
that by sane legislation legalizing the sale of drugs under controlled
conditions, they had already licked the problem, and wouldn't be in
the market. For two cents, I thought, I'd make China pay me the money
to keep the virus buried. For that matter, the Syndicate would gladly
kick in with a million. But I'm an American first, and couldn't play
it that way, especially remembering Professor A's daughter.

I thought the thing through, and decided that if I turned the disease
loose, so that every good poppy is a dead one, any decent government
will quietly pay me off. They only need to know that no other
plants are affected.

And that's the way I played it. The next day I sprayed a few grams of
concentrated virus into the humid air of Washington, and went home. If
you read the papers, you know the rest of that particular story. In
eight months not even Sherlock Holmes could have found a live opium
poppy on the face of the earth.

Once current stocks are gone, there'll be no more narcotics deriving
from that particular plant. The government sensibly outbid all the
addicts and operators in order to save what is left for medical use.Not long after it became known that their parents were dead, Georgia and
Eliza enlisted the sympathies of a kindhearted Swiss couple, Christian
and Mary Brunner, who lived a short distance from the Fort. Mrs. Brunner
brought them bread, butter, eggs, and cheese, with the kind remark to
those in whose hands she placed the articles: "These are for the little
girls who called me grandma; but don't give them too much at a time." A
few days later, upon inquiring of them how they liked what she brought,
grandma was told they had not had anything, and was so surprised that
she decided to take Georgia home with her for a week. Georgia was more
delicate than her younger sister. Eliza was promised that she should be
treated as kindly upon Georgia's return. The week passed, and Georgia
returned, looking stronger. She told such wonderful stories about the
many cows! lots of chickens! two sheep that would not let her pass
unless she carried a big stick in sight! about the kindness grandma,
grandpa, and Jacob, his brother, had shown to her, that it seemed to
Eliza the time would never come when she and grandma were to start to
that enchanting home! Such a week of pleasure! Who but that little girl
could describe it! Grandma's bread and milk gave strength to her limbs
and color to her cheeks. She chased the chickens, and drove the cows;
she brought chips for grandma, rode the horse for Jacob, and sat upon
grandpa's knee so cheerfully, that they began to feel as if she belonged
to them. But her week had come to an end! Grandma, all dressed for a
walk to the Fort, sought the little girl, who was busy at play, and
said: "Come, Eliza, I hear that Georgia is sick, and I am going to take
you back, and bring her in your place." The sweet little girl looked
very grave for a moment, then glancing up with her large black eyes into
that dear old face, she took courage, and asked, with the earnestness of
an anxious child: "Grandma, can't you keep both of us?"

This simple question provided a home for both until after Hiram Miller
was appointed their guardian. He was intrusted with their money,
obtained from Keseberg and from other sources. The little sisters were
then again separated. Frances had found a home in Mrs. Reed's family.
Georgia was to go with grandpa, who was about to remove to Sonoma. Eliza
went to her eldest sister, who was now married and living on the
Cosumnes River. Here she remained until winter. Then, hearing that Mr.
Brunner's family and Georgia desired her return, she became so homesick
that her sister consented to her going to them. Fortunately, they heard
of two families who were to move to Sonoma in a very short time, and
Eliza was placed in their charge. This journey was marked with many
incidents which seemed marvelous to her child-mind. The one which
impressed itself most forcibly occurred upon their arrival at the bank
of the Sonoma River. All the Scandinavian countries have in the last
twenty-five years produced novel-writers of power and distinction, but
with the single exception of the Swedish authoress, SELMA LAGERLÖF, whose
great novel, _Gosta Berling_, was awarded the Nobel Prize, and the
Norwegian, KNUT HAMSUN, whose extremely unpleasant book, _Hunger_, was
published in this country a score of years ago, few if any of
them have been made accessible to the average English reader. Now the
Gyldendal Publishing Company of Copenhagen has undertaken the
neglected task of producing English translations of the best Scandinavian
fiction, the latest of which is _Guest the One-Eyed_, by the Icelandic
novelist, GUNNAR GUNNARSSON.

It is not a particularly powerful narrative, and is marked by the
characteristic inconsequence that tends to convert the Scandinavian
novel into a mélange of family biographies; yet the author has been
successful in weaving into his chapters some of the beauty and magic
of his native land, lovely and forbidding by turns, and the charm and
simplicity of its people. So when he makes _Ormarr Orlygsson_ fling away
the strenuous work of ten years and a promising career as a great
violinist to return to a pastoral life on his father's Iceland estates,
the step seems neither strange nor unnatural. So with the perfectly
villainous _Sera Ketill_, who at the culmination of unparalleled
infamies suddenly repents and becomes the far-wandering and well-beloved
_Guest_, we do not feel anything strained in the author's assumption
that in Iceland, at any rate, such things easily happen. _Guest the
One-Eyed_ is not a noteworthy novel in the sense that _Gosta Berling_
was. Yet one would not have missed reading it.

* * * * *
It is interesting to watch heredity at play.

Given the inclination to write, what kind of a first book should we get
from the son of one of the most cultured and sensitive classical scholars
and translators of this or any day and from the grandson of the painter
of the Legend of the Briar Rose? The question is answered by Mr. DENIS
MACKAIL'S _What Next?_ (JOHN MURRAY), which on examination turns out
to be a farcical novel. The story has certain technical weaknesses,
but these are forgotten in the excitements of the chase, for the
main theme is the tracking down of a coarse capitalist who defrauded
the hero of his fortune and did something very low against England.For six years Eliza remained in Sacramento, in the
family of her sister, Elitha. To her she was indebted for the
opportunity she enjoyed of attending, for one year, with her sister
Frances and afterwards Georgia, St. Catherine's Academy, at Benicia, and
the public schools of Sacramento.

Elitha C. Donner married Perry McCoon, who was subsequently killed by a
runaway horse. On the eighth of December, 1853, Mrs. McCoon was married
to Benj. W. Wilder. They reside on the Cosumnes River, a few miles from
Elk Grove, Sacramento County, Cal., and have six children. Leanna C.
Donner was married September 26, 1852, to John App. They now reside in
Jamestown, Tuolumne County, Cal., and their family consists of Rebecca
E., born February 9, 1854; John Q., born January 19, 1864; and Lucy E.,
born August 12, 1868, who reside with their parents.

Frances E. Donner was married November 24, 1858, to William R. Wilder,
and now resides at Point of Timber, Contra Costa County, Cal. Their
children are: Harriet, born August 24, 1859; James William, born May 30,
1863; Frances Lillian, born July 17, 1867; Asaph, born May 7, 1870; and
Susan Tamsen, born September 3, 1878. Georgia A. Donner was married
November 4, 1863, to W. A. Babcock. Their family consists of Henry A.,
born August 23, 1864; Frank B., born June 29, 1866; and Edith M., born
August 24, 1868. Their address is Mountain View, Santa Clara County,
Cal.

Eliza P. Donner, on the tenth of October, 1861, was married to Sherman
O. Houghton. Mr. Houghton was born in New York City, April 10, 1828,
served in the Mexican war, was Mayor of San Jose in 1855 and 1856,
represented California in the Forty-second and Forty-third Congress, and
is at present a prominent member of the San Jose bar. Mr. and Mrs.
Houghton have six children. The youngest living was born in Washington,
D. C., at which city his family resided during the four years he served
as member of Congress. Their children are: Eliza P., Sherman O., Clara
H., Charles D., Francis J., and Stanley W. Their youngest born, Herbert
S., died March 18, 1878, aged twenty months. Mary M. Donner, daughter of
Jacob Donner, was adopted into the family of Mr. James F. Reed, in 1848.
She continued a member of this family until her marriage with Hon. S. O.
Houghton, of San Jose, August 23, 1859. June 21, 1860, Mrs. Mary M.
Houghton died, leaving an infant daughter, Mary M., who is now a young
lady, and a member of the family of Mr. and Mrs. Houghton.

George Donner, Jr., son of Jacob Donner, married Miss Margaret J.
Watson, June 8, 1862. Their children now living are: Mary E., Corn J.,
George W., John C., Betty L., and Frank M. Albert, their eldest, died in
1869, and an infant son died in 1875. George Donner, Jr., died at
Sebastopol, February 17, 1874. Mrs. Donner now lives with her children
on their farm near Sebastopol, Sonoma County, California.


Chapter XXIV.


Yerba Buena's Gift to George and Mary Donner
An Alcalde's Negligence
Mary Donner's Land Regranted
Squatters Jump George Donner's Land
A Characteristic Land Law Suit
Vexatious Litigation
Twice Appealed to Supreme Court, and Once to United States Supreme Court
A Well taken Law Point
Mutilating Records
A Palpable Erasure
Relics of the Donner Party
Five Hundred Articles
Buried Thirty-two Years
Knives, Forks, Spoons
Pretty Porcelain
Identifying Chinaware
Beads and Arrow-heads
A Quaint Bridle Bit
Remarkable Action of Rust
A Flintlock Pistol
A Baby's Shoe
The Resting Place of the Dead
Vanishing Landmarks.


Yerba Buena's citizens, shortly after the arrival of George and Mary
Donner, contributed a fund for the purpose of purchasing for each of
them a town lot. It happened that these lots were being then distributed
among the residents of the town. Upon the petition of James F. Reed, a
grant was made to George Donner of one hundred vara lot number
thirty-nine, and the adjoining lot, number thirty-eight, was granted to
Mary. The price of each lot was thirty-two dollars, and both were paid
for out of the fund. The grants were both entered of record by the
Alcalde, George Hyde. The grant made to George was signed by the
Alcalde, but that made to Mary was, through inadvertence, not signed. A
successor of Hyde, as Alcalde, regranted the lot of Mary Donner to one
Ward, who discovered the omission of the Alcalde's name to her grant.
This omission caused her to lose the lot. In 1851, a number of persons
squatted on the lot of George Donner, and in 1854 brought suit against
him in the United States Circuit Court to quiet their title. This suit
was subsequently abandoned under the belief that George Donner was dead.
_You_ proceed to----! What, in the name of gentility, can _you_ know of
fashionable life?

Sir, or madam, have mercy, or at least have manners. How astonished you
will be--we say, how astonished you _will_ be--if in the fulness of
time our title shall dignify the title-page; when it might appear,
that by the pen of a peer these papers were made apparent; when, instead
of the sort of person you have chosen to imagine your caterer for the
good things of fashionable life in London, you may discern to your
dismay that a lord--a real lord, alive and kicking, has made a
Bude-light of himself, illuminating the shadows of your ignorance:
you may read a preparatory memoir, informing you how these ideas
of ours were collected in a coach and four, and transmitted to paper
in a study overlooking the Green Park; with paper velvet-like, and
golden pen ruby-headed, upon rose-wood desk inlaid with ivory, you
may find that these essays have been transcribed: you will grovel,
you will slaver, you will rub your nose in the pebbles, like a
salmon at spawning-time, when this very immortal work shall come
out, clothed in purple morocco, our arms emblazoned on the covers,
and coroneted on the back, after the manner of publication of the
works of royal and noble authors.

Then, what running to Debrett for our genealogy, our connexions, our
_set_, and all that customary inquisition of the affairs of the
great which makes the delight of the little: the "Book of Beauty,"
and "Pictures of the Nobility," will be ransacked, of course, for
verses by our lordship, or portraits of our lordship's ladyship,
or of the ladies Exquisitina or Nonsuchina, daughters of our lordship,
with slavering verses by intolerable poets; then it will be discovered,
and the discovery duly recorded, that our lordship's eldest son,
Viscount Ne'er-do-weel, and the Honourable Mr Nogo, are pursuing cricket
and pie-crust (commonly called their _studies_) at Eton or Harrow, but
are expected at our lordship's seat in Some-Shire for their holidays:
then we will be proposed, seconded, and elected, like other noblemen
equally undistinguished in the world of science, a fellow of the
Royal Society and a fellow of the Society of Arts--and for the same
good reason, because we may be a lord; and you, and all the world,
will say it was very proper that I should have been elected, though
knowing no more of science than that acoustics (if we mistake
not) means a pump; or of arts, than that calico-printing and
letterpress printing are, somehow or other, not exactly one and the
same thing.

The
first trial had attracted much attention, and was frequently mentioned
in the newspapers of San Francisco, and thus several persons who were
present when the grant was made had their attention called to the
controversy, and to the difficulty encountered in proving a delivery of
the grant. They communicated to Donner the fact that it was delivered
for him to William McDonald, the man with whom he lived at the time.
They also narrated the circumstances attending the delivery of the
grant. This information, however, came too late for the purposes of the
trial. Prior to the second trial, the written testimony of all these
witnesses was procured and in readiness for use when required, but it
was never required. Mr. Houghton and the attorneys whom he had called
upon to aid in the case, determined to rest its decision upon another
ground. They concluded to insist that, as it was a grant issuing from
the government through its instrument, the Alcalde, who was invested
with authority for the purpose, no delivery of the grant was necessary,
and that none was possible, as the entry on the record book of the
Alcalde was the original, it bearing his official signature and being a
public record of his official act. This was a bold attack upon the rule
which the courts had long established to the contrary. After a full
argument of the question at the second trial, the court sustained the
view of the law taken by Mr. Houghton and his associates, and, on
appeal, the decision was sustained by the Supreme Court of the State,
and subsequently affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States,
before which the question was carried by writ of error.

Donner's attorneys adopted this course because, at the first trial, the
squatters had produced the copy of the grant which had actually been
issued and delivered. This they had obtained possession of and
mutilated, and then had surreptitiously placed it in the office of the
County Clerk of San Francisco, who was the custodian of the records of
the office of the Alcaldes of San Francisco. Their purpose was to make
it appear that it had never been signed or issued by the Alcalde, but
had been transferred with the other papers and records of that office to
the office of the County Clerk. This document was written on paper
having the same watermarks as numerous other grants to other persons,
admitted to be genuine, made about the same time as the grant to Donner.
The body of this instrument was in the handwriting of the then clerk of
the Alcalde, and the certificate that the Alcalde's fees had been paid
bore the genuine signature of the clerk. There was, however, no
signature or name where the signature of the Alcalde should have been;
but there was, instead, a plain, palpable erasure, easily seen by
holding the paper to the light.

George Donner lived to see his property become very valuable, but the
vexatious litigation above described was not terminated until after his
death. Meantime, however, he sold his interest, receiving therefor a
considerable sum of money.

In conclusion it may be proper to speak of the many interesting relics
which have recently been found under the former sites of the cabins of
the Donner Party. When the last relief party left Donner Lake, all
articles of minor value were left scattered here and there about the
floors and dooryards. Soon afterward the tide of emigrant travel turned
principally to other routes, and the Donner Lake road was comparatively
deserted. Years passed, and the loose soil, the windblown dust, the
grass and fallen leaves covered the articles from sight. It was twenty
years before men began to search for the sites of the cabins, and to
carry away little mementos of the mournful place. Nothing at this time
remained in sight save a few charred logs, and a few score of tall,
unsightly stumps. Even the old pioneers had great difficulty in pointing
out the location of more than one or two of the cabins. After the
preparation of this history began, the author induced several of the
survivors to visit Donner Lake, and to assist in definitely determining
the location and boundaries of the cabins. Digging in the earth which
thirty-two years ago formed the cabin floors, the most interesting
relics were found. A collection of over five hundred of these articles
is in the author's possession. There are spoons which are bent and
rust-eaten, some of which are partially without bowls, and some
destitute of handles, the missing portions being vaguely shadowed in the
rust-stained earth in which they were imbedded. On Monday morning, June
19, the three earls rode the few miles from Kenilworth to Warwick, and
Earl Guy handed over Peter to them. They then escorted their captive
to a place called Blacklow hill, about two miles out of Warwick on the
Kenilworth road, but situated in Lancaster's lands.

The crowd following the cavalcade was moved to tears when Peter,
kneeling to Lancaster, cried in vain for mercy from the "gentle earl".
On reaching Blacklow hill, the three earls withdrew, though remaining
near enough to see what was going on. Then two Welshmen in Lancaster's
service laid hands upon the victim. One drove his sword through his
body, the other cut off his head. The corpse remained where it had fallen,
but the head was brought to the earls as a sign that the deed was done.
After this the earls rode back to Kenilworth. Guy of Warwick remained
all the time in his castle. He had already taken his share in the cruel
act of treachery.

It was, however, important that Lancaster should take the responsibility
for the deed. Four cobblers of Warwick piously bore the headless corpse
within their town. But the grim earl sent it back, because it was not
found on his fee. At last some Oxford Dominicans took charge of the
body and deposited it temporarily in their convent, not daring to
inter it in holy ground, as Gaveston had died excommunicate.

The ostentatious violence of the confederate earls broke up their party.
Aymer of Pembroke, indignant at their breach of faith, regarded the
whole transaction as a stain on his honour. He besought Gloucester's
intervention, but was only told that he should be more cautious in
his future negotiations. He harangued the clerks and burgesses of Oxford,
but university and town agreed that the matter was no business
of theirs. Then in disgust he betook himself to the king, whom he found
still surrounded with the Beaumonts, Mauleys, and other friends of
Gaveston, against whom the ordinances had decreed banishment. Warenne,
whose honour was only less impeached than Pembroke's, also deserted the
ordainers for the court. Edward bitterly deplored the death of his friend.
He gladly welcomed the deserters, and prepared to wreak vengeance on
the ordainers.

Edward plucked up courage to return to London, where in July he addressed
the citizens, and persuaded them to maintain the peace of the city
against the barons. He next visited Dover, and there he strengthened
the fortifications of the castle, took oaths of fealty from the
Cinque Ports, and negotiated with the King of France.This is
especially the case with a darning-needle, which has increased its
circumference in places nearly one half, while in other places it is
eaten away until only a mere filament of steel remains. The sharp point
of a curved sewing-awl has grown with rust until it is larger than the
body of the awl. Several fish-hooks have been found, all more or less
rust eaten. A brass pistol, single barreled, apparently a century old,
was found under the Graves cabin, and near it was an old flint-lock. In
the corner of the fire-place of the Reed cabin were found several
bullets and number two shot. Gun-flints, ready for use or in a crude
form, were found in each of the cabins.

W. C. Graves visited the site of his father's cabin on the twenty-first
of April, 1879, and many articles were dug up in his presence which he
readily recognized. A large number of the leading citizens of Truckee
were present, and assisted in searching for the relics. Among other
things was a cooper's inshave, which belonged to his father, who was a
cooper by trade. An iron wagon hammer was also immediately recognized as
having been used in their wagon. A small tin box, whose close-fitting
cover was hermetically sealed with rust, was found, and while it was
being examined, one of the gentlemen, Mr. Frank Rabel, tapped it lightly
with his knife-handle. The side of the box crushed as easily as if it
had been an egg-shell. The wonderful fact connected with this relic,
however, is that Mr. Graves said, before the box was crushed, that his
mother kept oil of hemlock in this box, and that upon examination a
distinct odor of oil of hemlock was found remaining in the box.

A whetstone, or what might more properly be called an oil-stone, was
discovered at the Breen cabin. On this stone were the initials "J. F.
R.," which had evidently been cut into its surface with a knife-blade.
Mrs. V. E. Murphy and Mrs. Frank Lewis, the daughters of James F. Reed,
at once remembered this whetstone as having belonged to their father,
and fully identified it upon examination.

A great many pins have been found, most of which are the old-fashioned
round-headed ones. A strange feature in regard to these pins is that
although bright and clean, they crumble and break at almost the
slightest touch. The metal of which they are made appears to be entirely
decomposed. One of the most touching relics, in view of the sad, sad
history, is the sole of an infant's shoe. The tiny babe who wore the
shoe was probably among the number who perished of starvation.

The big rock against which the Murphy cabin stood is half hidden by
willows and by fallen tamaracks, whose branches are interlaced so as to
form a perfect net-work above the place where the cabin stood. Under the
floor of this cabin the remains of the poor victims are supposed to have
been buried. Nature appears to have made every effort to conceal the
spot. In addition to the bushes and the fallen trees there is a rank
growth of marsh grass, whose rootlets extend far down in the soil, and
firmly resist either shovel or spade. Until very late in the summer this
mournful spot is still further protected by being inundated by the
waters of Donner Creek. It is hardly necessary to remark that no relics
have ever been found under the site of the Murphy cabin. The tall stumps
which surround this rock, and the site of the Graves and Reed cabin, and
which are particularly numerous around the site of the Donner tents at
Alder Creek, are of themselves remarkable relics. Many of them were cut
by persons who stood on the top of very deep snow. They are frequently
ten, fifteen, and twenty feet in height. Time and the action of the
elements have caused them to decay until, in some instances, a child's
hand might cause them to totter and fall. In a few years more they all
will have disappeared.