    I heard many cry out, especially children, whose agonies were
    amazing. One of the eldest, a girl of ten or twelve years old, was
    full in my view, in violent contortions of body, and weeping aloud,
    I think incessantly, during the whole service. * * * While poor
    sinners felt the sentence of death in their souls, what sounds of
    distress did I hear! Some shrieking, some roaring aloud. The most
    general was a loud breathing, like that of people half strangled
    and gasping for life. And indeed, almost all the cries were like
    those of human creatures dying in bitter anguish. Great numbers
    wept without any noise; others fell down as dead; some sinking in
    silence; some with extreme noise and violent agitation. I stood on
    the pew seat, as did a young man in an opposite pew--an
    able-bodied, fresh, healthy countryman. But in a moment, when he
    seemed to think of nothing less, down he dropped with a violence
    inconceivable. The adjoining pews seemed shook with his fall. I
    heard afterward the stamping of his feet, ready to break the boards
    as he lay in strong convulsions at the bottom of the pew. * * *
    Among the children who felt the arrows of the Almighty I saw a
    sturdy boy about eight years old, who roared above his fellows, and
    seemed, in his agony, in struggle with the strength of a grown man.
    His face was red as scarlet; and almost all on whom God laid his
    hand turned either red or almost black. * * * A stranger, well
    dressed, who stood facing me, fell backward to the wall; then
    forward on his knees, wringing his hands and roaring like a bull.
    His face at first turned quite red, then almost black. He rose and
    ran against the wall till Mr. Keeling and another held him. He
    screamed out "Oh! what shall I do? what shall I do? Oh, for one
    drop of the blood of Christ!"

These were violent remedies, but they were applied to a powerful
disease. If the revivalists did harm by the religious terrorism which
they excited, they yet had a powerful and wide-spread influence for
good. They awakened religious feelings among the people, and diffused
a new earnestness among the clergy. A spirit of philanthropy was born
with their teachings which has gone on growing until it now extends a
protecting arm even to brutes. The societies for the prevention of
cruelty to children and to animals are part of a great philanthropic
movement which began at the end of the eighteenth century, which has
carried into practical, every-day life the spirit of Christianity, and
has given to the words mercy and charity, the signification of real and
existing virtues. Horses, dogs, even rats, are now more safe from
wanton brutality than great numbers of men and women in the eighteenth
century. To any one who studies that period, the stocks, the whipping
post, the gibbet, cock fights, prize-fights, bull-baitings, accounts of
rapes, are simply the outward signs of an all-pervading cruelty. If he
opens a novel, he finds that the story turns on brutality in one form
or other. It is not only in such novels as those of Fielding and
Smollett, which are intended to describe the lower classes of society,
and in which blackened eyes and broken heads are relished forms of wit,
that the modern reader is offended by the continual infliction of pain.
Goldsmith gives Squire Thornhill perfect impunity from the law and from
public opinion in his crimes. Mackenzie does not think of visiting any
legal retribution on his "Man of the World." Godwin wrote "Caleb
Williams" to show with what impunity man preyed on man, how powerless
the tenant and the dependent woman lay before the violence or the
intrigue of the rich.