     "Once to the willow-tree
       A maid came fearful,
     Pale seemed her cheek to be,
       Her blue eye tearful;
     Soon as she saw the tree,
       Her step moved fleeter,
     No one was there--ah me!
       No one to meet her!

     "Quick beat her heart to hear
       The far bell's chime
     Toll from the chapel-tower
       The trysting time:
     But the red sun went down
       In golden flame,
     And though she looked round,
       Yet no one came!

     "Presently came the night,
       Sadly to greet her,--
     Moon in her silver light,
       Stars in their glitter.
     Then sank the moon away
       Under the billow,
     Still wept the maid alone--
       There by the willow!

     "Through the long darkness,
       By the stream rolling,
     Hour after hour went on
       Tolling and tolling.
     Long was the darkness,
       Lonely and stilly;
     Shrill came the night-wind,
       Piercing and chilly.

     "Shrill blew the morning breeze,
       Biting and cold,
     Bleak peers the gray dawn
       Over the wold.
     Bleak over moor and stream
       Looks the grey dawn,
     Gray, with dishevelled hair,
     Still stands the willow there--


      THE MAID IS GONE!

     "Domine, Domine!
       Sing we a litany,--
      Sing for poor maiden-hearts broken and
          weary;
       Domine, Domine!
     Sing we a litany,
       Wail we and weep we a wild Miserere!"

One of the chief beauties of this ballad (for the translation of which I
received some well-merited compliments) is the delicate way in which the
suicide of the poor young woman under the willow-tree is hinted at; for
that she threw herself into the water and became one among the lilies
of the stream, is as clear as a pikestaff. Her suicide is committed some
time in the darkness, when the slow hours move on tolling and tolling,
and is hinted at darkly as befits the time and the deed.

But that unromantic brute, Van Cutsem, the Dutch Charge-d'Affaires, sent
to the Kartoffelnkranz of the week after a conclusion of the ballad,
which shows what a poor creature he must be. His pretext for writing it
was, he said, because he could not bear such melancholy endings to poems
and young women, and therefore he submitted the following lines:--

     I.

     "Long by the willow-trees
       Vainly they sought her,
     Wild rang the mother's screams
       O'er the gray water:
     'Where is my lovely one?
       Where is my daughter?

     II.

     "'Rouse thee, sir constable--
       Rouse thee and look;
     Fisherman, bring your net,
       Boatman your hook.
     Beat in the lily-beds,
       Dive in the brook!'

     III.

     "Vainly the constable
       Shouted and called her;
     Vainly the fisherman
       Beat the green alder;
     Vainly he flung the net,
       Never it hauled her!

     IV.

     "Mother beside the fire
       Sat, her nightcap in;
     Father, in easy chair,
       Gloomily napping;
     When at the window-sill
       Came a light tapping!

     V.

     "And a pale countenance
       Looked through the casement.
     Loud beat the mother's heart,
       Sick with amazement,
     And at the vision which
       Came to surprise her,
     Shrieked in an agony--
       'Lor! it's Elizar!'

     VI

     "Yes, 'twas Elizabeth--
       Yes, 'twas their girl;
     Pale was her cheek, and her
       Hair out of curl.
     'Mother!' the loving one,
       Blushing, exclaimed,
     'Let not your innocent
       Lizzy be blamed.

     VII.

     "'Yesterday, going to aunt
       Jones's to tea,
     Mother, dear mother, I
       FORGOT THE DOOR-KEY!
     I took away the earth that
       covered it, and
     having lifted it up,
       discovered a flight of stairs, which I descended with my ax in my
hand.

     When I had reached the bottom I found myself in a palace, which was
as well lighted as if it had been above ground in the open air.

     I was going forward along
       a gallery supported
     by pillars of jasper, the
       base and capitals being
     of massy gold, when I saw
       a lady of a noble and graceful
     air, and extremely
       beautiful, coming toward me.

     I hastened to meet her; and as I was making a low obeisance she
asked me, "Are you a man, or a genie?"

            "A man, madam," said I.

     "By what adventure,"
       said she, fetching a
     deep sigh, "are you come hither? I have
       lived here for
       twenty-five years, and
     you are the first man I have beheld in that time."

The next ballad is less gloomy
than that of the willow-tree, and in it the lovely writer expresses her
longing for what has charmed us all, and, as it were, squeezes the whole
spirit of the fairy tale into a few stanzas:--

     "FAIRY DAYS.

     "Beside the old hall-fire--upon my nurse's knee,
     Of happy fairy days--what tales were told to me!
     I thought the world was once--all peopled with princesses,
     And my heart would beat to hear--their loves and their distresses;
     And many a quiet night,--in slumber sweet and deep,
     The pretty fairy people--would visit me in sleep.

     "I saw them in my dreams--come flying east and west,
     With wondrous fairy gifts--the new-born babe they bless'd;
     One has brought a jewel--and one a crown of gold,
     And one has brought a curse--but she is wrinkled and old.
     The gentle queen turns pale--to hear those words of sin,
     But the king he only laughs--and bids the dance begin.

     "The babe has grown to be--the fairest of the land
     And rides the forest green--a hawk upon her hand.
     An ambling palfrey white--a golden robe and crown;
     I've seen her in my dreams--riding up and down;
     And heard the ogre laugh--as she fell into his snare,
     At the little tender creature--who wept and tore her hair!

     "But ever when it seemed--her need was at the sorest
     A prince in shining mail--comes prancing through the forest.
     A waving ostrich-plume--a buckler burnished bright;
     I've seen him in my dreams--good sooth! a gallant knight.
     His lips are coral red--beneath a dark moustache;
     See how he waves his hand--and how his blue eyes flash!

     "'Come forth, thou Paynim knight!'--he shouts in accents clear.
     The giant and the maid--both tremble his voice to hear.
     The grand vizier, who, in secret, bore no good will to
     Aladdin, intimated his suspicion that the palace was
     built by magic, and that Aladdin had made his hunting
     excursion an excuse for the removal of his palace with the same
suddenness with which it had been erected."With what a blushing grace--he falls upon his knee
     And takes the lady's hand--and whispers, 'You are free!'
     Ah! happy childish tales--of knight and faerie!
     I waken from my dreams--but there's ne'er a knight for me;
     I waken from my dreams--and wish that I could be
     A child by the old hall-fire--upon my nurse's knee."

Indeed, Ottilia looked like a fairy herself: pale, small, slim, and
airy. You could not see her face, as it were, for her eyes, which were
so wild, and so tender, and shone so that they would have dazzled an
eagle, much more a poor goose of a Fitz-Boodle. In the theatre, when she
sat on the opposite side of the house, those big eyes used to pursue me
as I sat pretending to listen to the "Zauberflote," or to "Don Carlos,"
or "Egmont," and at the tender passages, especially, they would have
such a winning, weeping, imploring look with them as flesh and blood
could not bear.

