  "All parties agreed in the propriety of the Grant, and if
  Government had anything to answer for on this point, it was
  for having so long delayed bringing it before the House. There
  could not be a greater compliment to Her Royal Highness than
  to state the quiet unobtrusive tenor of her life, and that
  she had never made herself the object of public gaze, but had
  devoted herself to the education of her child, whom the House
  was now called upon to adopt."


[Pageheading: EARLY REMINISCENCES]

In the year 1872 Queen Victoria wrote down with her own hand some
reminiscences of her early childhood, the manuscript of which is
preserved at Windsor, and which may be quoted here.

"My earliest recollections are connected with Kensington Palace,
where I can remember crawling on a yellow carpet spread out for that
purpose--and being told that if I cried and was naughty my 'Uncle
Sussex' would hear me and punish me, for which reason I always
screamed when I saw him! I had a great horror of _Bishops_ on account
of their wigs and _aprons_, but recollect this being partially
got over in the case of the then Bishop of Salisbury (Dr Fisher,
great-uncle to Mr Fisher, Private Secretary to the Prince of Wales),
by his kneeling down and letting me play with his badge of Chancellor
of the Order of the Garter. With another Bishop, however, the
persuasion of showing him my 'pretty shoes' was of no use. Claremont
remains as the brightest epoch of my otherwise rather melancholy
childhood--where to be under the roof of that beloved Uncle--to listen
to some music in the Hall when there were dinner-parties--and to go
and see dear old Louis!--the former faithful and devoted Dresser and
friend of Princess Charlotte--beloved and respected by all who knew
her--and who doted on the little Princess who was too much an idol in
the House. This dear old lady was visited by every one--and was the
only really devoted Attendant of the poor Princess, whose governesses
paid little real attention to her--and who never left her, and was
with her when she died. I used to ride a donkey given me by my Uncle,
the Duke of York, who was very kind to me. I remember him well--tall,
rather large, very kind but extremely shy. He always gave me beautiful
presents. The last time I saw him was at Mr Greenwood's house, where
D. Carlos lived at one time,--when he was already very ill,--and he
had Punch and Judy in the garden for me.


[Pageheading: EARLY REMINISCENCES]

"To Ramsgate we used to go frequently in the summer, and I remember
living at Townley House (near the town), and going there by steamer.
Mamma was very unwell. Dear Uncle Leopold went with us.

"To Tunbridge Wells we also went, living at a house called Mt.
Pleasant, now an Hotel. Many pleasant days were spent here, and the
return to Kensington in October or November was generally a day of
tears.

"I was brought up very simply--never had a room to myself till I was
nearly grown up--always slept in my Mother's room till I came to the
Throne. At Claremont, and in the small houses at the bathing-places,
I sat and took my lessons in my Governess's bedroom. I was not fond of
learning as a little child--and baffled every attempt to teach me my
letters up to 5 years old--when I consented to learn them by their
being written down before me.


[Pageheading: GEORGE IV.]

"I remember going to Carlton House, when George IV. lived there, as
quite a little child before a dinner the King gave. The Duchess of
Cambridge and my 2 cousins, George and Augusta, were there. My Aunt,
the Queen of Würtemberg (Princess Royal), came over, in the year '26,
I think, and I recollect perfectly well seeing her drive through the
Park in the King's carriage with red liveries and 4 horses, in a _Cap_
and evening dress,--my Aunt, her sister Princess Augusta, sitting
_opposite_ to her, also in evening attire, having dined early with the
Duke of Sussex at Kensington. She had adopted all the German fashions
and spoke broken English--and had not been in England for many
many years. She was very kind and good-humoured but very large and
unwieldy. She lived at St James's and had a number of Germans with
her. In the year '26 (I think) George IV. asked my Mother, my Sister
and me down to Windsor for the first time; he had been on bad terms
with my poor father when he died,--and took hardly any notice of the
poor widow and little fatherless girl, who were so poor at the time
of his (the Duke of Kent's) death, that they could not have travelled
back to Kensington Palace had it not been for the kind assistance of
my dear Uncle, Prince Leopold. We went to Cumberland Lodge, the King
living at the Royal Lodge. Aunt Gloucester was there at the same
time. When we arrived at the Royal Lodge the King took me by the hand,
saying: 'Give me your little paw.' He was large and gouty but with a
wonderful dignity and charm of manner. He wore the wig which was so
much worn in those days. Then he said he would give me something for
me to wear, and that was his picture set in diamonds, which was worn
by the Princesses as an order to a blue ribbon on the left shoulder. I
was very proud of this,--and Lady Conyngham pinned it on my shoulder.
Her husband, the late Marquis of Conyngham, was the Lord
Chamberlain and constantly there, as well as Lord Mt. Charles (as
Vice-Chamberlain), the _present_ Lord Conyngham.

"None of the Royal Family or general visitors lived at the Royal
Lodge, but only the Conyngham family; all the rest at Cumberland
Lodge. Lady Maria Conyngham (now dead, first wife to Lord Athlumney,
daughter of Lord Conyngham), then quite young, and Lord Graves
(brother-in-law to Lord Anglesey and who afterwards shot himself on
account of his wife's conduct, who was a Lady of the Bedchamber), were
desired to take me a drive to amuse me. I went with them, and Baroness
(then Miss) Lehzen (my governess) in a pony carriage and 4, with 4
grey ponies (like my own), and was driven about the Park and taken to
Sandpit Gate where the King had a Menagerie--with wapitis, gazelles,
chamois, etc., etc. Then we went (I think the next day) to Virginia
Water, and met the King in his phaeton in which he was driving the
Duchess of Gloucester,--and he said 'Pop her in,' and I was lifted
in and placed between him and Aunt Gloucester, who held me round
the waist. (Mamma was much frightened.) I was greatly pleased, and
remember that I looked with great respect at the scarlet liveries,
etc. (the Royal Family had crimson and green liveries and only the
King scarlet and blue in those days). We drove round the nicest part
of Virginia Water and stopped at the Fishing Temple. Here there was
a large barge and every one went on board and fished, while a band
played in another! There were numbers of great people there, amongst
whom was the last Duke of Dorset, then Master of the Horse. The King
paid great attention to my Sister,[2] and some people fancied he
might marry her!! You shall read the chapters that tell of _Gail's_
ascent of Mount Lincoln, and see if they don't stir your blood,
especially where he reaches the top, alone (and therefore unable
to talk), and sees the world at his feet. You will exult in this.

***
Mr. VICTOR BRIDGES has a very versatile pen and in most of the
twenty-one pieces of _Jetsam_ (MILLS AND BOON) which he has recovered
from the waves of monthly magazines and elsewhere there is a certain
amount of material for mirth. I do not however find him a startlingly
original humorist, whether on the river Thames, where he seems to
follow in the wake of Mr.

    JEROME K. JEROME, or in a Chelsea "pub," where his manners
    are reminiscent of the characters of Messrs. W.

W. JACOBS and MORTON HOWARD. Again, in the story called "The First
Marathon" (where, by the way, he states that "It is true that the
word 'Marathon' was first used in connection with the old Olympian
games," which seems a little unfair to MILTIADES), the fun mainly
depends on the use of such phrases as "Spoo-fer," "King Kod," and
the "Can't-stik-you-shun-all Club." Other stories are of the adventurous
or romantic type sacred to serial fiction, no fewer than three
dealing with escaped convicts on Dartmoor, and one (the first in
the book) describing the chance meeting of a man and a pretty girl
on an uninhabited island off the West Coast of Scotland.

Here, for some reason or other, the man insisted on calling his
charming and unknown companion _Astarte_, a name which, if I had
been in her place, I should have been inclined to resent.

But Mr. BRIDGES' dialogue is nearly always bright, and his knowledge
of the machinery of yarn-spinning excellent. There is just one other
point however which I should like to mention. The book includes a
brand-new Russian wolf-story, in which the heroes protect themselves
from the bites of these ferocious quadrupeds by putting on armour,
which they find in a deserted house.

I don't object to that; but, when they leave the railway line along
which they have been travelling and plunge into a forest-path they
come to a place where the route forks and cannot make out which of
the two roads will be more likely to lead them back to the railway.

I do not feel that these men were the sort of people to be trusted
to wander by themselves in a desolate Siberian anecdote.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE CADDIE WHO SAW THE FAIRIES.]
* * * * *
Our New Masters.

She took long drives in an open carriage and I was frequently
sent out with her, which I am sorry to confess I did not like, as,
like most children of that age, I preferred running about. She was
excessively kind to children, but could not bear naughty ones--and I
shall never forget her coming into the room when I had been crying and
naughty at my lessons--from the next room but one, where she had
been with Mamma--and scolding me severely, which had a very salutary
effect. She dined early in the afternoon and Uncle Leopold asked many
of the neighbours and others to dinner to meet her. My brother Prince
Leiningen came over with her, and was at that time paying his court
to one of her ladies, Countess Klebelsberg, whom he afterwards
married--against the wish of his grandmother and mother--but which was
afterwards quite made up. In November (I think, or it may have been
at the end of October) she left, taking my sister with her back to
Coburg. I was very ill at that time, of dysentery, which illness
increased to an alarming degree; many children died of it in the
village of Esher. The Doctor lost his head, having lost his own child
from it, and almost every doctor in London was away. Mr Blagden came
down and showed much energy on the occasion. I recovered, and remember
well being very cross and screaming dreadfully at having to wear, for
a time, flannel next my skin. Up to my 5th year I had been very much
indulged by every one, and set pretty well _all_ at defiance. Old
Baroness de Späth, the devoted Lady of my Mother, my Nurse Mrs Brock,
dear old Mrs Louis--_all_ worshipped the poor little fatherless child
whose future then was still very uncertain; my Uncle the Duke of
Clarence's poor little child being alive, and the Duchess of Clarence
had one or two others later. DUNN's characters are content to do
things, to climb mountains, to ford rivers, to endure hunger and
cold and weariness, I am in close bodily sympathy with them; it is
when they begin to talk and to explain their mental states that my
keenness is threatened by another and less pleasing fatigue. It is
not that the scope of the story--a man's regeneration by love and
hardship--isn't a good one:
quite the contrary. It is that I simply do not believe that human beings,
especially those that figure in this book, would ever talk about
themselves in this particular way. "In the name of our own blood,"
she uttered softly, "of Love, the Future, and Victory...." That is
a random sentence from the last page, and very typical of Mr.
DUNN's dialogue.[Pageheading: THE EDUCATION OF THE PRINCESS]

In 1830 the Duchess of Kent wished to be satisfied that the system of
education then being pursued with the Princess was based on the right
lines, and that due moral and intellectual progress was being made.
A memorandum, carefully preserved among the archives, gives an
interesting account of the steps which she took to this end.


[Pageheading: LETTER TO THE BISHOPS]

[Pageheading: RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION]

The Duchess therefore brought the matter under the consideration
of those whom, from their eminent piety, great learning, and high
station, she considered best calculated to afford her valuable advice
upon so important a subject. She stated to the Bishops of London
and Lincoln[3] the particular course which had been followed in the
Princess's education, and requested their Lordships to test the
result by personal examination. The nature and objects of Her Royal
Highness's appeal to these eminent prelates will be best shown by the
following extracts from her letter to the Bishops:--

  "'The Princess will be eleven years of age in May; by the
  death of her revered father when she was but eight months old,
  her sole care and charge devolved to me. Stranger as I then
  was, I became deeply impressed with the absolute necessity of
  bringing her up entirely in this country, that every feeling
  should be that of Her native land, and proving thereby my
  devotion to duty by rejecting all those feelings of home and
  kindred that divided my heart.

  "'When the Princess approached her fifth year I considered it
  the proper time to begin in a moderate way her education--an
  education that was to fit Her to be either the Sovereign of
  these realms, or to fill a junior station in the Royal Family,
  until the Will of Providence should shew at a later period
  what Her destiny was to be.

  "'A revision of the papers I send you herewith will best shew
  your Lordships the system pursued, the progress made, etc. I
  attend almost always myself every lesson, or a part; and as
  the Lady about the Princess is a competent person, she assists
  Her in preparing Her lessons for the various masters, as
  I resolved to act in that manner so as to be Her Governess
  myself. I am not altogether sure that the story itself is as
  good as its name, but that still leaves a margin of quality,
  and I for one have enjoyed it greatly--in patches. Let
  Mr.
  ROBERT DUNN not too hastily condemn me if I say that he has written
a fatiguing tale.

  Partly I mean this as a high compliment. The descriptions
  of hardships borne and physical difficulties overcome by his
  hero are so vivid that they convey a sensation of actual
  bodily strain in a manner that only one other living writer can
equal.I do
  not presume to have an over-confidence in what I have done; on
  the contrary, as a female, as a stranger (but only in birth,
  as I feel that this is my country by the duties I fulfil, and
  the support I receive), I naturally desire to have a candid
  opinion from authorities competent to give one. In that view I
  address your Lordships; I would propose to you that you advert
  to all I have stated, to the papers I lay before you, and that
  then you should personally examine the Princess with a view of
  telling me--

    "'1. If the course hitherto pursued in Her education has
        been the best; if not, where it was erroneous.

    "'2. If the Princess has made all the Progress she should
       have made.

