There was something suppressed in this--a mean evasion--for he could
not easily have told Mr. Edgcrton, without a blush, that, instead
of the mercantile establishment, he would have made me a bricklayer's
hodman. But this, it seems, Edgerton had found out for himself. His
reply, however, was calculated to soothe the jealous apprehensions
of Mr. Clifford. He had an object in view, which he thought too
important to risk for the small pleasure of a passing sarcasm.

"Perhaps, it has happened for the best, Mr. Clifford. You were
right in requiring the young man to do for himself. Were I worth
millions, sir, I should still prefer that my son should learn that
lesson--that he should work out his own deliverance with the sweat
of his own brow."

"I agree with you, sir, perfectly," replied the other, with increased
complacency. "A boy learns to value his money as he should, only
when he has earned it for himself."

"Ah! it is not for this object simply," replied Mr. Edgerton,
"that I would have him acquire habits of industry; it is for the
moral results which such habits produce--the firmness, character,
consistency--the strength and independence--temperance, justice--all
of which arise, and almost only, from obedience to this law. But
it is clear that one can not do everything by himself, and this
young man, though he has gone on in a manner that might shame the
best of us, is still not so thoroughly independent as he fancies
himself. It will be some time before he will be able to realize
anything from his profession, and he will need some small assistance
in the meantime."

"I can not help him," exclaimed Mr. Clifford, abruptly--"I have
not the means to spare. My own family need everything that I can
give. He has himself only to blame. He chose his profession for
himself. I warned him against it. He needn't send to me."

"Do not mistake me, Mr. Clifford," said Mr. Edgerton, calmly.
"Your nephew knows nothing of my present visit. I would be loath
that he should know. It was the singular independence of his mind
that led me to the conviction, that he would sooner die than ask
assistance from anybody, that persuaded me to suggest to you in
what manner you might afford him an almost necessary help, without
offending his sensibility."

"Humph!" exclaimed the other, while a sneer mantled upon his lips.
"You are very considerate, Mr. Edgerton; but the same sensibilities
might prompt him to reject the assistance when tendered."

"No, sir," replied Edgerton, mildly--"I think I could manage that."

"I am sorry, sir, that I can not second your wishes in any material
respect," was the answer of my uncle;--"but I will see Edward, and
let him know that my house is open to him as it was from, the time
he was four years old; and he shall have a seat at my table until
he can establish himself more to his satisfaction; but money, sir,
in truth, I have not a cent to spare.  My own necessities--"

"Enough, sir," said Mr. Edgerton, mildly; "I take it for granted,
Mr. Clifford, that if you could contribute to the success of your
brother's son, you certainly would neither refuse nor refrain to
do so."

"Oh, surely--certainly not," replied the other, hastily.  "Anything
that I could do--anything in reason, sir, I should be very happy
to do, but--"

And then followed the usual rigmarole about "his own family," and
"hard times," and "diminished resources," and all those stereotype
commonplaces which are for ever on the lips of stereotype insincere
people. Mr. Clifford did not perceive the dry and somewhat scornful
inuendo, which lay at the bottom of Mr.  Edgerton's seemingly innocent
assumption; and the latter took his leave, vexed with himself at
having made the unsuccessful application--but still more angry with
the meanness of character which he had encountered in my uncle.


CHAPTER IV.

"She still soothed The mock of others."


"Nothing else would tear him away from the city."
I meditated.

"Our arrangements for dinner," I continued, "fall in very well with
his coming. I suppose the guest-rooms are all ready, but you had
best go see to that, and meanwhile turn this fellow over to
Ofatulenus."
Agathemer nodded. The pleasantest of his many good qualities was
that whatever he might be asked to do he carried out without
comment or objection. Nothing was too big or too small for him.
If he were asked to arrange for an interview with the Emperor or to
attend to the creasing of a toga he was equally painstaking and
obliging. He went off, followed by the negro. I waited on the
terrace for Tanno. There was no use attempting to bathe until after
his arrival. Presently a cheerful halloo from the litter reached
my ears. It was Tanno to a certainty. Nobody else of my acquaintance
had voice enough to make himself heard at that distance or was
sufficiently lacking in dignity to emit a yawp in that fashion.
When his escort came near enough I could see that all his bearers
wore the same livery as his runner. Tanno was forever changing his
liveries and each fresh invention he managed to make more fantastic
than the last. There were eight bearers to the litter and some
twenty reliefs.

Travelling long distances by litter, begun as a necessity to such
invalids as my uncle, had become a fashion through the extreme
coxcombery of wealthy fops and the practice of the young
Emperor.

Tanno's litter had all its panels slid back, and the curtains were
not drawn. He was sitting almost erect, propped up by countless
down cushions. He greeted me with many waves of the hand and a smile
as genial as his halloo.

I went down a little from the terrace to meet him and walked a few
paces beside the litter. He rolled out and embraced me cordially,
appearing as glad to see me as I was delighted to see him.

"I do not know," I said, "whether I am more surprised or pleased to
see you. To what do I owe my good fortune?"
"We simply cannot get on without you," he answered, "and I am going
to take you back to Rome with me.

How soon can you start?"
"You came at the nick of time," said I, "I had expected to go
down three days from now, but I found out this afternoon that I
can get away tomorrow morning."

"Praise be to Hercules and all the gods," said Tanno. "I love the
country frantically, especially when I am in the city. I love it
so that three days on the road is enough country for me. I have
been bored to death and do so want a bath."
"The bath is all hot and ready," said I, "and the slaves waiting.
But I am giving a dinner this evening and nearly all my neighbors
are coming. The diners are almost due to arrive, I need a bath and
want one, but I meant to wait for my guests."
"Well," he said, "you have one guest here already and that's enough.
Let's bathe once, at once, and you can bathe again when your Sabine
clodhoppers get here. Life is too short for a man to get enough
baths, anyhow. Two a day is never enough for me. A pretext for
two in an afternoon is always welcome. Come on, let's bathe quick,
so as to have it over with before the first of the other guests
arrives, then we can get a breath of fresh air and be as keen for
the second bath as for the first."
Conversation with Tanno consisted mostly in listening and
interjecting questions. He wallowed in the cold tank like a porpoise;
caught me and ducked me until I yelled for mercy, and while I was
trying to get my breath, half drowned me with the water he splashed
over me with both hands; talking incessantly, except when his head
was under water.

When we lay down on the divan in the warm room he rattled on.

"You needn't tell me," he said, "that your runners haven't taken
letters to Vedia, but she is supposed not to hear from you, so,
as I told of two of your letters to me, I have, in a way been
held responsible for you and have been pelted with inquiries.
Nemestronia loves you like a grandson, and, if you ask me, I say
Vedia is in love with you out and out. As I had heard from you and
nobody else had, I began to feel as if I ought to look after you.
Everything was abominably humdrum and I deceived myself into
thinking I should enjoy the smell of green fields. I certainly
should have turned back less than half way if I had been concerned
with anybody else than you; and when we turned off the Via Salaria
into your country byroad I cursed you and your neighbors and all
Sabinum. The most deserted stretch of road I ever travelled in all
my life. I saw only six human beings before I reached your villa
and I had heard that this valley was populous and busy. I slept
last night at Vicus Novus and I started this morning, bright and
early.But let me retrace my steps. I subdued my choler so far as to go,
with a tolerable appearance of calmness if not humility, to the
interview which my uncle had been pleased to solicit. I need not
repeat in detail what passed between us. It amounted simply to
a supercilious offer, on his part, of lodging and board, until I
should be sufficiently independent to open the oyster for myself.
I thanked him with respect and civility, but, to his surprise,
declined to accept his offer.

"Why, what do you propose to do ?" he demanded.

"Do what I have been doing for the three past years; work for
myself, and pay my board from the proceeds of my own labor."

"What, you go back to the merchants, do you? You are wiser than
I thought. The law would not give you your bread here for twenty
years in this city."

"You are mistaken, uncle," I said, good humoredly--"it is from the
law that I propose to get my bread."

"Indeed!--You are even more sanguine than I thought you. But, pray,
upon what do you base your expectations?--the talents, I suppose."

I felt the rankling of this well-known and offensive sneer, but
replied simply to the point:--

"No, sir, upon assurances which you will probably think far more
worthy of respect. I have already been employed by Mr.  Edgerton
as an attorney, at a salary of six hundred dollars."

"Ah, indeed! Well, you are a fortunate fellow, I must say, to get
such a helping hand at the outset. But you may want some small
amount to begin with--you can not draw upon Mr. Edgerton  before
services are rendered, and if fifty or a hundred dollars, Edward--"

"I thank you, sir;--so far from wanting money, I should be almost
able to lend some. I have saved some two hundred from my mercantile
salary"

I enjoyed the ghastly grin which rose to his features. It was
evident that he was not pleased that I should be independent.  He
had set out with the conviction, when my father died, that my
support and education would devolve upon him, and though they did
not, yet it was plain enough to me that he was not unwilling that
such should be the impression of the community. I had disarmed
him entirely by the simplest process, and, mortified at being
disappointed, he was disposed to hate the youth who had baffled
him. In the twinkling of an eye I was cast down from the pinnacle
of good fortune into an abyss of adversity. And upon what did my
catastrophe hinge? Upon the whims of a friend and upon one oversight
of my secretary.
I should have had no story to tell, I should have been a man
continuously happy, affluent and at ease, early married and passing
from one high office to the next higher in an uninterrupted
progress of success, had it not entered the head of my capricious
crony to pay me an unexpected and unannounced visit, had he not
arrived precisely at the time at which he came, had he not encountered
just the persons he met just where he did meet them, had not his
prankishness hatched in him the vagary which led him to give quizzical
replies to their questions; had I not, carried away by my elation
at my prosperity and fine prospects, been a trifle too indulgent
to my tenantry.

Even after, as a result, the nexus of circumstances had been
woven about me and after I found myself embroiled with both my
powerful neighbors, I should have escaped any evil consequences had
not my secretary, than whom no man ever was more loyal to his master
or more wary and inclusive in his foresight upon every conceivable
eventuality, failed to forecast the possible effects of a minor
omission.

When my story begins I had already had one small adventure, nothing
much out of the ordinary. Agathemer and I were returning from my
final inspection of my estate. As we rode past one of the farmsteads
we heard cries for help.
"But your telling him, Edward, was not telling me. Why did you not
tell me?"

"You might not have kept my secret, Julia. You know what naughty
things are said of your sex, touching your inability to keep a
secret."

"Naughty things, indeed--naughty and untrue! I'm sure, I should
have kept your secret, if you desired it. But why should it be a
secret?"

"Why, indeed!" I muttered, as the shadow of my perverseness  passed
deeply over my heart. "Why, unless to protect myself from the sneers
which would stifle my ambition, and the sarcasm which would have
stung my heart,"

"But you have no fear of these from me, Cousin Edward," she said
gently, and with dewy eyes, while her fingers slightly pressed upon
my wrist.

"I know not that, Cousin Julia, I somehow suspect everything and
everybody now. I feel very lonely in the world--as if there was a
destiny at work to make my whole life one long conflict, which I
must carry on without sympathy or succor."

"Oh, these are only notions, Edward."

"Notions!" I exclaimed, giving her a bitter smile as I spoke, while
my thoughts reverted to the three years of unremitting and almost
uncheered labor through which I had passed.

"Yes, notions only, Cousin Edward. You are full of such notions.
You every now and then start up with a new one; and it makes you
gloomy and discontented--"

"I make no complaints, Julia."

"No, that is the worst of it. You make no complaints, I think,
because you do not wish to be cured of them. You prefer nursing
your supposed cause of grief, with a sort of solitary pleasure--the
gratification of a haughty spirit, that is too proud to seek for
solace, and to find it."

Julia had in truth touched upon the true nature of my misanthropy
--of that self vexing and self-torturing spirit which too effectually
blinds the heart.

"But could I find it, Julia?" I asked, looking into her eyes with
an expression which I began to feel was something very new to mine.

I went on ahead. We had not met anybody since we turned into the
crossroads; about half a mile beyond the place where I had left
my litter I came around one of the innumerable curves a little
ahead of the procession and saw two men approaching on foot.

When they came abreast of me they saluted me politely and the taller,
a black-haired, dark-faced fellow with a broad jaw, inquired (in
the tone he would have used to Dromanus) whose litter I was escorting.

I was rather tickled that they took me for my own intendant. I
judged we must be approaching the entrance to Villa Satronia
and that they were people from there. I assumed an exaggerated
imitation of Dromanus' most grandiloquent manner and in his orotund
unctuous delivery I declaimed:

"'My master is Numerius Vedius Vindex.

The town's overrun with them--half of them
live upon their friends."

"I trust I shall not add to the number of this class, Mrs.  Clifford."

"Oh, no! I know YOU never will, Cousin Edward," exclaimed Julia,
with a flush upon her cheeks at her own temerity.

"Really, Julia," said her mother, "you are very confident.  How do
you know anything about it?"

The sharp glances of rebuke which accompanied this speech daunted
the damsel for a moment, and her eyes were suddenly cast in confusion
upon the ground; but she raised them with boldness a moment after,
as she replied:--

"We have every assurance, mother, for what I say, in the fact that
Cousin Edward has been supporting himself at another business, while
actually pursuing the study of law for these three years; and that
very pride about which father spoke today, is another assurance--"

"Bless my stars, child, you have grown very pert on a sudden, to
talk about guaranties and assurances, just as if you was a lawyer
yourself. "My master," he said, still grinning goodnaturedly,
"enjoined me not to tell you who he is."
I turned to Agathemer.

"What do you make of this?" I asked.

"There is but one man in Italy," he replied, "who is likely to send
you such a message, and his name is on the tip of your tongue."

"And on the tip of yours, I'll wager," said I. "Both together now!"
I raised my finger and counted.

"One! Two! Three!"
Both together we uttered:

"Opsitius Tanno!"
There was no variation in the Nubian's non-committal grin.In my secret
soul, I asked, "Will the day never come when I, too, will be able
to strike and sting?" I blushed an instant after, at the small and
mean appetite for revenge that such an inquiry implied. But I came
to the support of Julia.

"Let me say, Mrs. Clifford, that I think--nay, I know--that Julia
is right in her conjecture. The guaranty which I have given to my
friends, by the pride and industry which I have shown, should be
sufficient to convince them what my conduct shall be hereafter.
I know that I shall never trespass upon their feelings or their
pockets. They shall neither blush for nor lose by their relationship
with Edward Clifford."

"Well said! well spoken! with good emphasis and proper action.
Forrest himself could scarce have done it better!"

Such was the exclamation of Mr. Clifford, who entered the room
at this moment. His mock applause was accompanied by a clamorous
clapping of his hands. I felt my cheeks burn, and my blood boil.
The truth is, I was not free from the consciousness that I had
suffered some of the grandiloquent to appear in my manner while
speaking the sentence which had provoked the ridicule of my uncle.
The sarcasm acquired increase of sting in consequence of its being
partially well-merited. I replied with some little show of temper,
which the imploring glances of Julia did not altogether persuade
me to suppress.  The "blind heart" was growing stronger within
me, from the increasing conviction of my own independence. But all
social and moral health and wealth is but the aggregate of individual
health and wealth. No community and no class of men are better than
the men who compose them. If there are evils in the present
system they would continue, in a magnified form, in the new. There is
here the old political fallacy, made over into a new social
fallacy, that by mere putting of the ballot into every man's hands
the government would be purified of all its evils. We must begin
with the individual to purify him before the state or society can
be made much better.

It is the levelling down, the bringing the better working man to
the rate of work and quality of the poorer, which is sought, rather
than the levelling up.

The common goods scheme was tried early in the career of the Christian
Church and it failed to work because of the element of selfishness
which came in (Acts 2:
44,45; 4:34; compare 5:1-11); this has been the cause of the breaking
up of numerous social and communistic settlements and communities.

In Christianity.--When the precepts of Christianity have been
accepted and lived up to by any man or company of men, they have never
failed to stand all the social tests which have been applied
to them. They seek the regeneration of the individual and the
purification and usefulness, for him, of all the social institutions.
They endeavour to abolish evil desires and practices in the individual
and all social, industrial and political wrongs. They give full play
to all man's powers in private and in public matters. They have never
been proved inadequate to their task, but they have found much
refractory material with which to deal.

They level up not down and seek for every man a new moral and
physical life; they present before him the very highest ideals of
life and service.

It is a fact that it is only where their light shines that the working
man has anything like decent wages or hours of labour. In China, India
and Africa we find the labourer gets little or nothing for his
toil.

It is only in Christian countries that we have anything approaching
true social equality, in others no man may rise out of his caste
or class.

Take the United States and we find that a number of our presidents
have come from the poorest families and most of our influential
and wealthy men have risen from the ranks of the common people.

It is the lack of Christian principles in individual, industrial and
public life which is at the bottom of the present day social
unrest.

In Christ, the Social Reformer.--When He came upon the earth and
before His time all labour was performed by slaves without pay and
with but a dole of food. The mighty buildings of Egypt, Assyria,
Babylonia, Greece and Rome were all built by the unrequited toil
of slaves.

Such would have continued to be the state of things had not Christ
said, "The labourer is worthy of his hire" (Luke 10:7; Matthew 10:10).
That a working man should receive wages or any pay for his
labour was revolutionary in that time for "Plato, Cicero, Lycurgus
held that it was a disgrace to touch the implements of toil."
Christ dignified labour by toiling at the bench as a carpenter.
If ever labour is to gain any real advantage it must be through
taking Christ as a leader (Matthew 11:28).

He taught that the true bond of social equality was a moral and
spiritual one (Luke 8:21; Matthew 23:8; Philippians 3:13-15;
4:8).

In the Social Settlement.--What is a true social settlement? This
question is not so easily answered. There are all kinds and sorts
of social settlements. Some minister to the health of the community
in which they are situated and some do not. The saloon has recently
put forth its claim to the doing of social service, but no one ever
slandered a saloon keeper by affirming that he had anything in
view save a selfish motive.

Whatever little social service he may render is more than counterbalanced
by the social havoc wrought by his trade. Again there are social
settlements where the principal thought and effort seems to
be to provide somewhat questionable vaudeville entertainments
and frequent public dances; the leaders say they are compelled
to adopt these features to hold the people; here comes in again
the question of social damage to the community in which they are
situated.

The true social settlement, with all its features of mental and
physical culture, is one which places Christ at the front of all
its work and keeps Him there.The case, I need
not add, was hopelessly against me; the testimony conclusive; and
I had nothing to do but to weigh its character with keen examination,
pick out and expose its defects and inconsistencies, and suggest
as plausible a presumption in favor of the accused, as could be
reasonably made out from the possibilities and doubts by which all
human occurrences are necessarily attended. Something, too, might
be done by judicious appeals to the principle of mercy, assuming
for the jury a discretion on this subject which, by the way, they
have no right to exercise.

I was joined in the case by my friend, young Edgerton. So far our
boyish fortunes had run together, and he was not unwilling, though
against his father's counsel, to take the same occasion with me for
entering the world in company. The term began; the case was one of
the last on the criminal docket, and the five days which preceded
that assigned for the trial, were days, I am constrained to confess,
of a thrilling and terrible agitation to my mind. I can scarcely
now recall the feelings of that week without undergoing a partial
return of the same painful sensations. My soul was striving as
with itself, and seeking an outlet for escape. I panted, as if for
breath--my tongue was parched--my lips clammy--my voice, in the
language of the poet, clove to the roof of my throat. Altogether,
I have never felt such emotions either before or since.

I will not undertake to analyze them, or account for those conflicting
sensations which make us shrink, with something like terror, from
the very object which we desire. At length the day came, and the
man; attended by his father, William Edgerton, and myself, took our
places, and stood prepared for the issue. I looked round me with a
dizzy feeling of uncertainty.  Objects appeared to swim and tremble
before my sight. My eyes were of as little service to me then as
if they had been gazing to blindness upon the sun. Everything was
confused and imperfect. I could see that the courthouse was filled
to overflowing, and this increased my feebleness. The case was one
that had occasioned considerable excitement in the community, It
was one of no ordinary atrocity. This was a sufficient reason why
the audience should be large. There was yet another. There were
two new debutants. In a community where popular eloquence is, of
all others, perhaps the most desirable talent, this circumstance
was well calculated to bring many listeners. Besides, something
was expected from both Edgerton and myself. We had not reached our
present position without making for ourselves a little circle, in
which we had friends to approve and exult, and enemies to depreciate,
and condemn.

The proceedings were at length opened by the attorney-general, the
witnesses examined, and turned over to us for cross-examination.
This part of the duty was performed by my associate.  The business
fairly begun, my distraction was lessened.  My mind, driven to a
point, made a decisive stand; and the sound of Edgerton's voice,
as he proposed his questions, served still more to dissipate my
confusion. I furnished him with sundry questions, and our examination
was admitted to be quite searching and acute. My friend went through
his part of the labor with singular coolness. He was in little or
no respect excited. He, perhaps, was deficient in enthusiasm. If
there was no faltering in what he said, there was no fine phrensy.
His remarks and utterance were subdued to the plainest demands
of the subject. They were shrewd and sensible, not particularly
ingenious, nor yet deficient in the proper analysis of the evidence.
He acquitted himself creditably.

It was my part to reply to the prosecuting attorney; but when I
rose, I was completely confounded. Never shall I forget the pang of
that impotence which seemed to overspread my frame, and to paralyze
every faculty of thought and speech.  I was the victim to my
own ardor. A terrible reaction of mind had taken place, and I was
prostrated. The desire to achieve greatness--the belief that it
was expected from me--the consciousness that hundreds of eyes were
then looking into mine with hungering expectation, overwhelmed me!
I felt that I could freely have yielded myself for burial beneath
the floor on which I stood. My cheeks were burning, yet my hands
were cold as ice, and my knees tottered as with an ague. I strove
to speak, however; the eyes of the judge met mine, and they looked
the language of encouragement--of pity. But this expression only
increased my confusion. I stammered out nothing but broken syllables
and incoherent sentences. What I was saying, I know not--how long
I presented this melancholy spectacle of imbecility to the eyes of
my audience, I know not.  It may have been a few minutes only. To
me it seemed an age; and I was just endued with a sufficient power
of reflection to ask myself whether I had not better sit down at
once in irreversible despair, when my wandering and hitherto vacant
eyes caught a glance-a single glance--of a face opposite.

The silent flooding in of the main is to them more to be desired
than the swift wave which in giving may destroy. Let us not think
too lightly of them because they feared shadows which the light of
time has dispelled.

It needs no eyes to see where they were wrong: where they were
right--and they were right often enough--can only be seen by
taking trouble to inquire.

Of the condition of learning in England in the second half of the
fifteenth century we do not yet know all that we might.The clammy huskiness which had loaded
my tongue, and made it cleave to the roof of my mouth, instantly
departed; and my whole mind returned to my control as if beneath the
command of some almighty voice. I now saw the judge distinctly--I
could see the distinct features of every juryman; and with the pride
of my restored consciousness, I retorted the smile upon my uncle's
face with one of contempt, which was not without its bitterness.

Then I spoke, and spoke with an intenseness, a directness of purpose
and aim--a stern deliberateness--a fire and a feeling--which
certainly electrified my hearers with surprise, if with no more
elevated emotions. "Nobody but Tanno would send me such a message,"
I said to Agathemer.

"No one else," he agreed, "but I should be no more surprised to see
the Emperor himself in this part of the world."
"One of his wild whims," I conjectured.After a brief exordium, containing some general proposition on the
subject of human testimony, which meant no more than to suggest
the propriety of giving to the prisoner the benefit of what was
doubtful and obscure in the testimony which had been taken against
him--I proceeded to compare and contrast its several parts. There
were some inconsistencies in the evidence which enable me to make
something of a case. The character of the witnesses was something
more than doubtful and that, too, helped, in a slight degree,
my argument. One need only recall the bargainings that occur
in the Paston Letters to realize that there was not much
romance about their marriages, at any rate beforehand. Thus wrote
Sir John Paston in 1473 of a suitor for his sister Anne: 'As for
Yelverton, he said but late that he would have her if she had her
money; and else not.'
Thomas More is rightly regarded as a man in whom the spirit burned
brighter and clearer than in most of his contemporaries; and yet his
matrimonial relations savour more of convenience or even of business
than of affection. For his first wife, we are told--and there is
no reason to doubt the story--, his fancy had lighted on an Essex
girl, the daughter of a country-gentleman; but on visiting her at
home he found that she had an elder sister not yet married.
