MY BRILLIANT CAREER

MILES FRANKLIN

1901


PREFACE


A few months before I left Australia I got a letter from the bush signed
"Miles Franklin", saying that the writer had written a novel, but knew
nothing of editors and publishers, and asking me to read and advise.
Something about the letter, which was written in a strong original hand,
attracted me, so I sent for the MS., and one dull afternoon I started to
read it. I hadn't read three pages when I saw what you will no doubt see
at once--that the story had been written by a girl. And as I went on I saw
that the work was Australian--born of the bush. I don't know about the
girlishly emotional parts of the book--I leave that to girl readers to
judge; but the descriptions of bush life and scenery came startlingly,
painfully real to me, and I know that, as far as they are concerned, the
book is true to Australia--the truest I ever read. I wrote to Miles
Franklin, and she confessed that she was a girl. I saw her before leaving
Sydney. She is just a little bush girl, barely twenty-one yet, and has
scarcely ever been out of the bush in her life. She has lived her book,
and I feel proud of it for the sake of the country I came from, where
people toil and bake and suffer and are kind; where every second
sun-burnt bushman is a sympathetic humorist, with the sadness of the bush
deep in his eyes and a brave grin for the worst of times, and where every
third bushman is a poet, with a big heart that keeps his pockets empty.

HENRY LAWSON

England, April 1901


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

INTRODUCTION
ONE.          I REMEMBER, I REMEMBER
TWO.          AN INTRODUCTION TO POSSUM GULLY
THREE.        A LIFELESS LIFE
FOUR.         A CAREER WHICH SOON CAREERED TO AN END
FIVE.         DISJOINTED SKETCHES AND CRUMBLES
SIX.          REVOLT
SEVEN.        WAS E'ER A ROSE WITHOUT ITS THORN?
EIGHT.        POSSUM GULLY LEFT BEHIND. HURRAH! HURRAH!
NINE.         AUNT HELEN'S RECIPE
TEN.          EVERARD GREY
ELEVEN.       YAH!
TWELVE.       ONE GRAND PASSION
THIRTEEN.     HE
FOURTEEN.     PRINCIPALLY LETTERS
FIFTEEN.      WHEN THE HEART IS YOUNG
SIXTEEN.      WHEN FORTUNE SMILES
SEVENTEEN.    IDYLLS OF YOUTH
EIGHTEEN.     AS SHORT AS I WISH HAD BEEN THE MAJORITY OF SERMONS
                  TO WHICH I HAVE BEEN FORCED TO GIVE EAR
NINETEEN.     THE 9TH OF NOVEMBER 1896
TWENTY.       SAME YARN (Cont.)
TWENTY-ONE.   MY UNLADYLIKE BEHAVIOUR AGAIN
TWENTY-TWO.   SWEET SEVENTEEN
TWENTY-THREE. AH, FOR ONE HOUR OF BURNING LOVE, 'TIS WORTH AN AGE
                 OF COLD RESPECT!
TWENTY-FOUR.  THOU KNOWEST NOT WHAT A DAY MAY BRING FORTH
TWENTY-FIVE.  BECAUSE?
TWENTY-SIX.   BOAST NOT THYSELF OF TOMORROW
TWENTY-SEVEN  MY JOURNEY
TWENTY-EIGHT. TO LIFE
TWENTY-NINE.  TO LIFE (Cont.)
THIRTY.       WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS, 'TIS FOLLY TO BE WISE
THIRTY-ONE.   MR M'SWAT AND I HAVE A BUST-UP
THIRTY-TWO.   TA-TA TO BARNEY'S GAP
THIRTY-THREE. BACK AT POSSUM GULLY
THIRTY-FOUR.  BUT ABSENT FRIENDS ARE SOON FORGOT
THIRTY-FIVE.  THE 3RD OF DECEMBER 1898
THIRTY-SIX.   ONCE UPON A TIME, WHEN THE DAYS WERE LONG AND HOT
THIRTY-SEVEN. HE THAT DESPISETH LITTLE THINGS, SHALL
                 FALL LITTLE BY LITTLE
THIRTY-EIGHT. A TALE THAT IS TOLD AND A DAY THAT IS DONE


INTRODUCTION


Possum Gully, near Goulburn,
N.S. Wales, Australia, 1st March, 1899


MY DEAR FELLOW AUSTRALIANS,

Just a few lines to tell you that this story is all about myself--for no
other purpose do I write it.

I make no apologies for being egotistical. In this particular I attempt
an improvement on other autobiographies. Other autobiographies weary one
with excuses for their egotism. What matters it to you if I am
egotistical? What matters it to you though it should matter that I am
egotistical?

This is not a romance--I have too often faced the music of life to the
tune of hardship to waste time in snivelling and gushing over fancies and
dreams; neither is it a novel, but simply a yarn--a _real_ yarn. Oh! as
real, as really real--provided life itself is anything beyond a heartless
little chimera--it is as real in its weariness and bitter heartache as the
tall gum-trees, among which I first saw the light, are real in their
stateliness and substantiality.

My sphere in life is not congenial to me. Oh, how I hate this living
death which has swallowed all my teens, which is greedily devouring my
youth, which will sap my prime, and in which my old age, if I am cursed
with any, will be worn away! As my life creeps on for ever through the
long toil-laden days with its agonizing monotony, narrowness, and
absolute uncongeniality, how my spirit frets and champs its unbreakable
fetters--all in vain!


SPECIAL NOTICE

You can dive into this story head first as it were. Do not fear
encountering such trash as descriptions of beautiful sunsets and
whisperings of wind. We (999 out of every 1000) can see nought in sunsets
save as signs and tokens whether we may expect rain on the morrow or the
contrary, so we will leave such vain and foolish imagining to those poets
and painters--poor fools! Let us rejoice that we are not of their
temperament!

Better be born a slave than a poet, better be born a black, better be
born a cripple! For a poet must be companionless--alone! _fearfully_ alone
in the midst of his fellows whom he loves. Alone because his soul is as
far above common mortals as common mortals are above monkeys.


There is no plot in this story, because there has been none in my life or
in any other life which has come under my notice. I am one of a class,
the individuals of which have not time for plots in their life, but have
all they can do to get their work done without indulging in such a luxury.


CHAPTER ONE


I Remember, I Remember


"Boo, hoo! Ow, ow; Oh! oh! Me'll die. Boo, hoo. The pain, the pain!
Boo, hoo!"

"Come, come, now. Daddy's little mate isn't going to turn Turk like that,
is she? I'll put some fat out of the dinner-bag on it, and tie it up in
my hanky. Don't cry any more now. Hush, you must not cry! You'll make old
Dart buck if you kick up a row like that."

That is my first recollection of life. I was barely three. I can remember
the majestic gum-trees surrounding us, the sun glinting on their straight
white trunks, and falling on the gurgling fern-banked stream, which
disappeared beneath a steep scrubby hill on our left. It was an hour past
noon on a long clear summer day. We were on a distant part of the run,
where my father had come to deposit salt. He had left home early in the
dewy morning, carrying me in front of him on a little brown pillow which
my mother had made for the purpose. We had put the lumps of rock-salt
in the troughs on the other side of the creek. The stringybark roof of
the salt-shed which protected the troughs from rain peeped out
picturesquely from the musk and peppercorn shrubs by which it was densely
surrounded, and was visible from where we lunched. I refilled the
quart-pot in which we had boiled our tea with water from the creek,
father doused our fire out with it, and then tied the quart to the D of
his saddle with a piece of green hide. The green-hide bags in which the
salt had been carried were hanging on the hooks of the pack-saddle which
encumbered the bay pack-horse. Father's saddle and the brown pillow were
on Dart, the big grey horse on which he generally carried me, and we were
on the point of making tracks for home.


Preparatory to starting, father was muzzling the dogs which had
just finished what lunch we had left. This process, to which the dogs
strongly objected, was rendered necessary by a cogent reason. Father had
brought his strychnine flask with him that day, and in hopes of causing
the death of a few dingoes, had put strong doses of its contents in
several dead beasts which we had come across.

Whilst the dogs were being muzzled, I busied myself in plucking ferns and
flowers. This disturbed a big black snake which was curled at the butt of
a tree fern.

"Bitey! bitey!" I yelled, and father came to my rescue, despatching the
reptile with his stock-whip. He had been smoking, and dropped his pipe on
the ferns. I picked it up, and the glowing embers which fell from it
burnt my dirty little fat fists. Hence the noise with which my story
commences.

In all probability it was the burning of my fingers which so indelibly
impressed the incident on my infantile mind. My father was accustomed to
take me with him, but that is the only jaunt at that date which I
remember, and that is all I remember of it. We were twelve miles from
home, but how we reached there I do not know.

My father was a swell in those days--held Bruggabrong, Bin Bin East, and
Bin Bin West, which three stations totalled close on 200,000 acres. Father
was admitted into swelldom merely by right of his position. His pedigree
included nothing beyond a grandfather. My mother, however, was a
full-fledged aristocrat. She was one of the Bossiers of Caddagat, who
numbered among their ancestry one of the depraved old pirates who
pillaged England with William the Conqueror.

"Dick" Melvyn was as renowned for hospitality as joviality, and our
comfortable, wide-veranda'ed, irregularly built, slab house in its
sheltered nook amid the Timlinbilly Ranges was ever full to overflowing.
Doctors, lawyers, squatters, commercial travellers, bankers, journalists,
tourists, and men of all kinds and classes crowded our well-spread board;
but seldom a female face, except mother's, was to be seen there,
Bruggabrong being a very out-of-the-way place.

I was both the terror and the amusement of the station. Old
boundary-riders and drovers inquire after me with interest to this day.

He leaned over and lit a cigarette. "You don't mind, do you?" he asked. He
raised his eyes.

"So he's conjuring this Madame de Rochefort, is he?" he concluded.

Mrs. Ennis flushed. "I never said anything of the kind!" she
protested.

"It's none of our business, anyway."
Burnaby smiled calmly. "I quite agree with you," he said. "I imagine that
a Frenchwoman, married for a while, is much better able to conduct
her life in this respect than even the most experienced of us."
"She isn't French," said Mrs. Ennis; "she's American. And she's only been
married five years. She's just a child--twenty-six."
"Oh!"

ejaculated Burnaby. "One of those hard-faced children! I understand--Newport,
Palm Beach, cocktails--"
His voice was cut across by Mrs. Ennis's indignant retort. "You don't in the
least!" she said. "She's not one of those hard-faced children; she's
lovely--and I've come to the conclusion that she's pathetic.

I'm beginning to rather hate this man Pollen. Back of it all are subtleties
of personality difficult to fathom.

You should know Blais Rochefort. I imagine a woman going about
things the wrong way could break her heart on him like waves on a
crystal rock.

I think it has been a question of fire meeting crystal, and, when it
finds that the crystal is difficult to warm, turning back upon itself.
I said waves, didn't I? Well, I don't care if my metaphors are
mixed. It's tragic, anyhow.

And the principal tragedy is that Blais Rochefort isn't really cold--at
least, I don't think he would be if properly approached--he is merely
beautifully lucid and intelligent and exacting in a way no American
understands, least of all a petted girl who has no family and who
is very rich.

He expects, you see, an equal lucidity from his wife. He's not to be won
over by the fumbling and rather selfish and pretty little tricks that are
all most of us know. But Mary, I think, would have learned if she had
only held on. Now, I'm afraid, she's losing heart. Hard-faced child!"
Mrs. Ennis grew indignant again. "Be careful my friend; even you might
find her dangerously pathetic."
Burnaby's eyes were placidly amused.

"Thanks," he observed. "You've told me all I wanted to know."
Mrs. Ennis waved toward the piano. "There's Blais Rochefort's photograph,"
she retorted in tones of good-humored exasperation. "Go over and look at
it."
"I will."
Burnaby's black shoulders, bent above the photograph, were for a
moment the object of a pensive regard. Mrs. Ennis sighed.

"Your presence makes me puritanical," she observed. "I have always felt
that the best way for any one to get over Pollens was to go through
with them and forget them."
Burnaby spoke without turning his head.

"He's good-looking."
"Very."
"A real man."

"Decidedly! Very brave and very cultivated."
"He waxes his mustache."
"Yes, even brave men do that occasionally."

"I should think," said Burnaby thoughtfully, putting the photograph
down, "that he might be worth a woman's hanging on to."

Mrs.

Ennis got up, crossed over to the piano, and leaned an elbow upon it, resting
her cheek in the palm of her upturned hand and smiling at Burnaby.

"Don't let's be so serious," she said. "What business is it of ours?" She
turned her head away and began to play with the petals of a near-by
jonquil.

"Spring is a restless time, isn't it?"
It seemed to her that the most curious little silence followed this
speech of hers, and yet she knew that in actual time it was nothing, and
felt that it existed probably only in her own heart. She heard the
clock on the mantelpiece across the room ticking; far off, the rattle
of a taxicab. The air coming through the open window bore the damp,
stirring smell of early grass.

"Madame De Rochefort and Mr. Pollen!" announced a voice.

Mrs. Ennis had once said that her young friend, Mimi de Rochefort,
responded to night more brilliantly than almost any other woman she
knew. The description was apt. Possibly by day there was a pallor
too lifeless, a nose a trifle too short and arrogant, lips, possibly,
too full; but by night these discrepancies blended into something
very near perfection, and back of them as well was a delicate
illumination as of lanterns hung in trees beneath stars; an
illumination due to youth, and to very large dark eyes, and to dark,
soft hair and red lips.Result, all the fences on the station would be fired for
a dead certainty, and the destruction of more than a hundred miles of
heavy log fencing on rough country like Bruggabrong was no picnic to
contemplate.

This was the feasible light in which father shaded his desire to leave.
The fact of the matter was that the heartless harridan, discontent, had
laid her claw-like hand upon him. His guests were ever assuring him he
was buried and wasted in Timlinbilly's gullies. A man of his
intelligence, coupled with his wonderful experience among stock, would,
they averred, make a name and fortune for himself dealing or
auctioneering if he only liked to try. Richard Melvyn began to think so
too, and desired to try. He did try.

He gave up Bruggabrong, Bin Bin East and Bin Bin West, bought Possum
Gully, a small farm of one thousand acres, and brought us all to live
near Goulburn. Here we arrived one autumn afternoon. Father, mother, and
children packed in the buggy, myself, and the one servant-girl, who had
accompanied us, on horseback. The one man father had retained in his
service was awaiting our arrival. He had preceded us with a
bullock-drayload of furniture and belongings, which was all father had
retained of his household property. Just sufficient for us to get along
with, until he had time to settle and purchase more, he said. That was
ten years ago, and that is the only furniture we possess yet--just enough
to get along with.

My first impression of Possum Gully was bitter disappointment--an
impression which time has failed to soften or wipe away.

How flat, common, and monotonous the scenery appeared after the rugged
peaks of the Timlinbilly Range!

Our new house was a ten-roomed wooden structure, built on a barren
hillside. Crooked stunted gums and stringybarks, with a thick underscrub
of wild cherry, hop, and hybrid wattle, clothed the spurs which ran up
from the back of the detached kitchen. Away from the front of the house
were flats, bearing evidence of cultivation, but a drop of water was
nowhere to be seen. Later, we discovered a few round, deep, weedy
waterholes down on the flat, which in rainy weather swelled to a stream
which swept all before it. Possum Gully is one of the best watered spots
in the district, and in that respect has stood to its guns in the
bitterest drought. Use and knowledge have taught us the full value of its
fairly clear and beautifully soft water. Just then, however, coming from
the mountains where every gully had its limpid creek, we turned in
disgust from the idea of having to drink this water.

I felt cramped on our new run. It was only three miles wide at its
broadest point. Was I always, always, always to live here, and never,
never, never to go back to Bruggabrong? That was the burden of the grief
with which I sobbed myself to sleep on the first night after our arrival.

Mother felt dubious of her husband's ability to make a living off a
thousand acres, half of which were fit to run nothing but wallabies, but
father was full of plans, and very sanguine concerning his future. He was
not going to squat henlike on his place as the cockies around him did. He
meant to deal in stock making of Possum Gully merely a depot on which
to run some of his bargains until reselling.

Dear, oh dear! It was terrible to think he had wasted the greater part of
his life among the hills where the mail came but once a week, and where
the nearest town, of 650 inhabitants, was forty-six miles distant. And
the road had been impassable for vehicles. Here, only seventeen miles
from a city like Goulburn, with splendid roads, mail thrice weekly, and a
railway platform only eight miles away, why, man, my fortune is made!
Such were the sentiments to which he gave birth out of the fullness of
his hopeful heart.

Ere the diggings had broken out on Bruggabrong, our nearest neighbour,
excepting, of course, boundary-riders, was seventeen miles distant.
Possum Gully was a thickly populated district, and here we were
surrounded by homes ranging from half a mile to two and three miles away.
This was a new experience for us, and it took us some time to become
accustomed to the advantage and disadvantage of the situation. Did we
require an article, we found it handy, but decidedly the reverse when
our neighbours borrowed from us, and, in the greater percentage of cases,
failed to return the loan.


CHAPTER THREE


A Lifeless Life


Possum Gully was stagnant--stagnant with the narrow stagnation prevalent
in all old country places.

Its residents were principally married folk and children under sixteen.
The boys, as they attained manhood, drifted outback to shear, drove, or
to take up land. They found it too slow at home, and besides there was
not room enough for them there when they passed childhood.

Nothing ever happened there. Time was no object, and the days slid
quietly into the river of years, distinguished one from another by name
alone. An occasional birth or death was a big event, and the biggest
event of all was the advent of a new resident.

When such a thing occurred it was customary for all the male heads of
families to pay a visit of inspection, to judge if the new-comers were
worthy of admittance into the bosom of the society of the neighbourhood.
Should their report prove favourable, then their wives finished the
ceremony of inauguration by paying a friendly visit.

After his arrival at Possum Gully father was much away on business, and
so on my mother fell the ordeal of receiving the callers, male and
female.

The men were honest, good-natured, respectable, common bushmen farmers.
Too friendly to pay a short call, they came and sat for hours yarning
about nothing in particular. This bored my gentle mother excessively. She
attempted to entertain them with conversation of current literature and
subjects of the day, but her efforts fell flat. She might as well have
spoken in French.

They conversed for hours and hours about dairying, interspersed with
pointless anecdotes of the man who had lived there before us. I found
them very tame.

After graphic descriptions of life on big stations outback, and the
dashing snake yarns told by our kitchen-folk at Bruggabrong, and the
anecdotes of African hunting, travel, and society life which had often
formed our guests' subject of conversation, this endless fiddle-faddle of
the price of farm produce and the state of crops was very fatuous.

Those men, like everyone else, only talked shop. I say nothing in
condemnation of it, but merely point out that it did not then interest
us, as we were not living in that shop just then.

Mrs Melvyn must have found favour in the eyes of the specimens of the
lords of creation resident at Possum Gully, as all the matrons of the
community hastened to call on her, and vied with each other in a display
of friendliness and good-nature. They brought presents of poultry, jam,
butter, and suchlike. They came at two o'clock and stayed till dark. They
inventoried the furniture, gave mother cookery recipes, described
minutely the unsurpassable talents of each of their children, and
descanted volubly upon the best way of setting turkey hens. On taking
their departure they cordially invited us all to return their visits, and
begged mother to allow her children to spend a day with theirs.

We had been resident in our new quarters nearly a month when my parents
received an intimation from the teacher of the public school, two miles
distant, to the effect that the law demanded that they should send their
children to school. It upset my mother greatly. What was she to do?

"Do! Bundle the nippers off to school as quickly as possible, of course,"
said my father.

My mother objected. She proposed a governess now and a good
boarding-school later on. She had heard such dreadful stories of public
schools! It was terrible to be compelled to send her darlings to one;
they would be ruined in a week!

"Not they," said father. "Run them off for a week or two, or a month at
the outside. They can't come to any harm in that time. After that we will
get a governess. You are in no state of health to worry about one just
now, and it is utterly impossible that I can see about the matter at
present. I have several specs. on foot that I must attend to. Send the
youngsters to school down here for the present."

We went to school, and in our dainty befrilled pinafores and light shoes
were regarded as great swells by the other scholars. They for the most
part were the children of very poor farmers, whose farm earnings were
augmented by road-work, wood-carting, or any such labour which came
within their grasp. All the boys went barefooted, also a moiety of the
girls. The school was situated on a wild scrubby hill, and the teacher
boarded with a resident a mile from it. He was a man addicted to drink,
and the parents of his scholars lived in daily expectation of seeing his
dismissal from the service.

It is nearly ten years since the twins (who came next to me) and I were
enrolled as pupils of the Tiger Swamp public school. My education was
completed there; so was that of the twins, who are eleven months younger
than I. Also my other brothers and sisters are quickly getting
finishedwards; but that is the only school any of us have seen or known.
There was even a time when father spoke of filling in the free forms for
our attendance there. But mother--a woman's pride bears more wear than a
man's--would never allow us to come to that.

All our neighbours were very friendly; but one in particular, a James
Blackshaw, proved himself most desirous of being comradely with us. He
was a sort of self-constituted sheik of the community. It was usual for
him to take all new-comers under his wing, and with officious good-nature
endeavour to make them feel at home. He called on us daily, tied his
horse to the paling fence beneath the shade of a sallie-tree in the
backyard, and when mother was unable to see him he was content to yarn
for an hour or two with Jane Haizelip, our servant-girl.

Jane disliked Possum Gully as much as I did. Her feeling being much more
defined, it was amusing to hear the flat-out opinions she expressed to Mr
Blackshaw, whom, by the way, she termed "a mooching hen of a chap".

"I suppose, Jane, you like being here near Goulburn, better than that
out-of-the-way place you came from," he said one morning as he
comfortably settled himself on an old sofa in the kitchen.

"No jolly fear. Out-of-the-way place! There was more life at Bruggabrong
in a day than you crawlers 'ud see here all yer lives," she retorted with
vigour, energetically pommelling a batch of bread which she was mixing.

"Why, at Brugga it was as good as a show every week. On Saturday evening
all the coves used to come in for their mail. They'd stay till Sunday
evenin'. Splitters. boundary-riders, dogtrappers--every manjack of 'em.
Some of us wuz always good fer a toon on the concertina, and the rest
would dance. We had fun to no end. A girl could have a fly round and a
lark or two there I tell you; but here," and she emitted a snort of
contempt, "there ain't one bloomin' feller to do a mash with. I'm full of
the place. Only I promised to stick to the missus a while, I'd scoot
tomorrer. It's the dead-and-alivest hole I ever seen."

"You'll git used to it by and by," said Blackshaw.

"Used to it! A person 'ud hev to be brought up onder a hen to git used to
the dullness of this hole."

"You wasn't brought up under a hen, or it must have been a big Bramer
Pooter, if you were," replied he, noting the liberal proportions of her
figure as she hauled a couple of heavy pots off the fire. He did not
offer to help her. Etiquette of that sort was beyond his ken.

"You oughter go out more and then you wouldn't find it so dull," he said,
after she had placed the pots on the floor.

"Go out! Where 'ud I go to, pray?"

"Drop in an' see my missus again when you git time. You're always
welcome."

"Thanks, but I had plenty of goin' to see your missus last time."

"How's that?"

"Why, I wasn't there harf an hour wen she had to strip off her clean duds
an' go an' milk. I don't think much of any of the men around here. They
let the women work too hard. I never see such a tired wore-out set of
women. It puts me in mind ev the time wen the black fellers made the gins
do all the work. Why, on Bruggabrong the women never had to do no outside
work, only on a great pinch wen all the men were away at a fire or a
muster. Down here they do everything. They do all the milkin', and
pig-feedin', and poddy-rarin'. It makes me feel fit to retch. I don't
know whether it's because the men is crawlers or whether it's dairyin'. I
don't think much of dairyin'. It's slavin', an' delvin', an' scrapin' yer
eyeballs out from mornin' to night, and nothink to show for your pains;
and now you'll oblige me, Mr Blackshaw, if youll lollop somewhere else
for a minute or two. I want to sweep under that sofer."

This had the effect of making him depart. He said good morning and went
off, not sure whether he was most amused or insulted.


CHAPTER FOUR


A Career Which Soon Careered To An End


While mother, Jane Haizelip, and I found the days long and life slow,
father was enjoying himself immensely.

He had embarked upon a lively career--that gambling trade known as dealing
in stock.

When he was not away in Riverina inspecting a flock of sheep, he was
attending the Homebush Fat Stock Sales, rushing away out to Bourke, or
tearing off down the Shoalhaven to buy some dairy heifers.

He was a familiar figure at the Goulburn sale-yards every Wednesday,
always going into town the day before and not returning till a day, and
often two days, afterwards.

He was in great demand among drovers and auctioneers; and in the stock
news his name was always mentioned in connection with all the principal
sales in the colony.

It takes an astute, clear-headed man to keep himself off shore in stock
dealing. I never yet heard of a dealer who occasionally did not
temporarily, if not totally, go to the wall.

He need not necessarily be downright unscrupulous, but if he wishes to
profit he must not be overburdened with niceties in the point of honour.
That is where Richard Melvyn fell through. He was crippled with too many
Utopian ideas of honesty, and was too soft ever to come off anything but
second-best in a deal. He might as well have attempted to make his
fortune by scraping a fiddle up and down Auburn Street, Goulburn. His
dealing career was short and merry. His vanity to be considered a
socialistic fellow, who was as ready to take a glass with a swaggie as a
swell, and the lavish shouting which this principle incurred, made great
inroads on his means. Losing money every time he sold a beast, wasting
stamps galore on letters to endless auctioneers, frequently remaining in
town half a week at a stretch, and being hail-fellow to all the spongers
to be found on the trail of such as he, quickly left him on the verge of
bankruptcy. Some of his contemporaries say it was grog that did it all.

Had he kept clear-headed he was a smart fellow, and gave promise of doing
well, but his head would not stand alcohol, and by it he was undermined
in no time. In considerably less than a twelvemonth all the spare capital
in his coffers from the disposal of Bruggabrong and the Bin Bins had been
squandered. He had become so hard up that to pay the drovers in his last
venture he was forced to sell the calves of the few milch-cows retained
for household uses.

At this time it came to my father's knowledge that one of our bishops had
money held in trust for the Church. On good security he was giving this
out for usury, the same as condemned in the big Bible, out of which he
took the text of the dry-hash sermons with which he bored his fashionable
congregations in his cathedral on Sundays.

Father took advantage of this Reverend's inconsistency and mortgaged
Possum Gully. With the money thus obtained he started once more and
managed to make a scant livelihood and pay the interest on the bishop's
loan. In four or five years he had again reached loggerheads. The price
of stock had fallen so that there was nothing to be made out of dealing
in them.

Richard Melvyn resolved to live as those around him--start a dairy; run it
with his family, who would also rear poultry for sale.

As instruments of the dairying trade he procured fifty milch-cows, the
calves of which had to be "poddied", and a hand cream-separator.

I was in my fifteenth year when we began dairying; the twins Horace and
Gertie were, as you already know, eleven months younger. Horace, had
there been any one to train him, contained the makings of a splendid man;
but having no one to bring him up in the way he should go, he was a
churlish and trying bully, and the issue of his character doubtful.

Gertie milked thirteen cows, and I eighteen, morning and evening. Horace
and mother, between them, milked the remaining seventeen.

Among the dairying fraternity little toddlers, ere they are big enough to
hold a bucket, learn to milk. Thus their hands become inured to the
motion, and it does not affect them. With us it was different. Being
almost full grown when we started to milk, and then plunging heavily into
the exercise, it had a painful effect upon us. Our hands and arms, as far
as the elbows, swelled, so that our sleep at night was often disturbed by
pain.

Mother made the butter. She had to rise at two and three o'clock in the
morning, in order that it would be cool and firm enough to print for
market.

Jane Haizelip had left us a year previously, and we could afford no one
to take her place. The heavy work told upon my gentle, refined mother.
She grew thin and careworn, and often cross. My father's share of the
work was to break in the wild cows, separate the milk, and take the
butter into town to the grocer's establishment where we obtained our
supplies.

Dick Melvyn of Bruggabrong was not recognizable in Dick Melvyn, dairy
farmer and cocky of Possum Gully. The former had been a man worthy of the
name. The latter was a slave of drink, careless, even dirty and
bedraggled in his personal appearance. He disregarded all manners, and
had become far more plebeian and common than the most miserable specimen
of humanity around him. The support of his family, yet not, its support.
The head of his family, yet failing to fulfil the obligations demanded of
one in that capacity. He seemed to lose all love and interest in his
family, and grew cross and silent, utterly without pride and pluck.
Formerly so kind and gentle with animals, now he was the reverse.

His cruelty to the young cows and want of patience with them I can never
forget. It has often brought upon me the threat of immediate
extermination for volunteering scathing and undesired opinions on his
conduct.

The part of the dairying that he positively gloried in was going to town
with the butter. He frequently remained in for two or three days, as
often as not spending all the money he got for the butter in a drunken
spree. Then he would return to curse his luck because his dairy did not
pay as well as those of some of our neighbours.

The curse of Eve being upon my poor mother in those days, she was unable
to follow her husband. Pride forbade her appealing to her neighbours, so
on me devolved the duty of tracking my father from one pub to another and
bringing him home.

Had I done justice to my mother's training I would have honoured my
paternal parent in spite of all this, but I am an individual ever doing
things I oughtn't at the time I shouldn't.

Coming home, often after midnight, with my drunken father talking maudlin
conceited nonsense beside me, I developed curious ideas on the fifth
commandment. Those journeys in the spring-cart through the soft faint
starlight were conducive to thought. My father, like most men when under
the influence of liquor, would allow no one but himself to handle the
reins, and he was often so incapable that he would keep turning the horse
round and round in the one place. It is a marvel we never met with an
accident. I was not nervous, but quite content to take whatever came, and
our trusty old horse fulfilled his duty, ever faithfully taking us home
along the gum-tree-lined road.

My mother had taught me from the Bible that I should honour my parents,
whether they were deserving of honour or not.

Dick Melvyn being my father did not blind me to the fact that he was a
despicable, selfish, weak creature, and as such I despised him with the
relentlessness of fifteen, which makes no allowance for human frailty and
weakness. Disgust, not honour, was the feeling which possessed me when I
studied the matter.

Towards mother I felt differently. A woman is but the helpless tool of
man--a creature of circumstances.

Seeing my father beside me, and thinking of his infant with its mother,
eating her heart out with anxiety at home, this was the reasoning which
took possession of me. Among other such inexpressible thoughts I got
lost, grew dizzy, and drew back appalled at the spirit which was maturing
within me. It was a grim lonely one, which I vainly tried to hide in a
bosom which was not big or strong enough for its comfortable habitation.
It was as a climbing plant without a pole--it groped about the ground,
bruised itself, and became hungry searching for something strong to which
to cling. Needing a master-hand to train and prune, it was becoming rank
and sour.


CHAPTER FIVE


Disjointed Sketches And Grumbles


It was my duty to "rare the poddies". This is the most godless occupation
in which it has been my lot to engage. I did a great amount of thinking
while feeding them--for, by the way, I am afflicted with the power of
thought, which is a heavy curse. The less a person thinks and inquires
regarding the why and the wherefore and the justice of things, when
dragging along through life, the happier it is for him, and doubly,
trebly so, for her.

Poor little calves! Slaves to the greed of man! Bereft of the mothers
with which Nature has provided them, and compelled to exist on milk from
the separator, often thick, sour, and icy cold.

Besides the milking I did, before I went to school every morning, for
which I had to prepare myself and the younger children, and to which we
had to walk two miles. I had to feed thirty calves and wash the breakfast
dishes. On returning from school in the afternoon, often in a state of
exhaustion from walking in the blazing sun, I had the same duties over
again, and in addition boots to clean and home lessons to prepare for the
morrow. I had to relinquish my piano practice for want of time.

Ah, those short, short nights of rest and long, long days of toil! It
seems to me that dairying means slavery in the hands of poor people who
cannot afford hired labour. I am not writing of dairy-farming, the
genteel and artistic profession as eulogized in leading articles of
agricultural newspapers and as taught in agricultural colleges. I am
depicting practical dairying as I have lived it, and seen it lived, by
dozens of families around me.

It takes a great deal of work to produce even one pound of butter fit for
market. At the time I mention it was 3d. and 4d. per lb., so it was much
work and small pay. It was slaving and delving from morning till
night--Sundays, week-days, and holidays, all alike were work-days to us.

Hard graft is a great leveller. Household drudgery, woodcutting, milking,
and gardening soon roughen the hands and dim the outside polish. When the
body is wearied with much toil the desire to cultivate the mind, or the
cultivation it has already received, is gradually wiped out. Thus it was
with my parents. They had dropped from swelldom to peasantism. They were
among and of the peasantry. None of their former acquaintances came
within their circle now, for the iron ungodly hand of class distinction
has settled surely down upon Australian society--Australia's democracy is
only a tradition of the past.

I say naught against the lower life. The peasantry are the bulwarks of
every nation. The life of a peasant is, to a peasant who is a peasant
with a peasant's soul, when times are good and when seasons smile, a
grand life. It is honest, clean, and wholesome. But the life of a peasant
to me is purgatory. Those around me worked from morning till night and
then enjoyed their well-earned sleep. They had but two states of
existence--work and sleep.

There was a third part in me which cried out to be fed. I longed for the
arts. Music was a passion with me. I borrowed every book in the
neighbourhood and stole hours from rest to read them. This told upon me
and made my physical burdens harder for me than for other children of my
years around me. That third was the strongest part of me. In it I lived a
dream-life with writers, artists, and musicians. Hope, sweet, cruel,
delusive Hope, whispered in my ear that life was long with much by and
by, and in that by and by my dream-life would be real. So on I went with
that gleaming lake in the distance beckoning me to come and sail on its
silver waters, and Inexperience, conceited, blind Inexperience, failing
to show the impassable pit between it and me.

To return to the dairying.

Old and young alike we earned our scant livelihood by the heavy sweat of
our brows. Still, we _did_ gain an honest living. We were not ashamed to
look day in the face, and fought our way against all odds with the
stubborn independence of our British ancestors. But when 1894 went out
without rain, and '95, hot, dry, pitiless '95, succeeded it, there came a
time when it was impossible to make a living.

The scorching furnace-breath winds shrivelled every blade of grass, dust
and the moan of starving stock filled the air, vegetables became a thing
of the past. The calves I had reared died one by one, and the cows
followed in their footsteps.

I had left school then, and my mother and father and I spent the days in
lifting our cows. When our strength proved inadequate, the help of
neighbours had to be called in, and father would give his services in
return. Only a few of our more well-to-do neighbours had been able to send
their stock away, or had any better place to which to transfer them. The
majority of them were in as tight a plight as ourselves. This cow-lifting
became quite a trade, the whole day being spent in it and in discussing
the bad prospect ahead if the drought continued.

Many an extra line of care furrowed the brows of the disheartened bushmen
then. Not only was their living taken from them by the drought, but there
is nothing more heartrending than to have poor beasts, especially dairy
cows, so familiar, valued, and loved, pleading for food day after day in
their piteous dumb way when one has it not to give.

We shore ourselves of all but the bare necessaries of life, but even they
for a family of ten are considerable, and it was a mighty tussle to get
both ends within cover of meeting. We felt the full force of the heavy
hand of poverty--the most stinging kind of poverty too, that which still
holds up its head and keeps an outside appearance. Far more grinding is
this than the poverty inherited from generations which is not ashamed of
itself, and has not as an accompaniment the wounded pride and humiliation
which attacked us.

Some there are who argue that poverty does not mean unhappiness. Let
those try what it is to be destitute of even one companionable friend,
what it means to be forced to exist in an alien sphere of society, what
it is like to be unable to afford a stamp to write to a friend; let them
long as passionately as I have longed for reading and music, and be
unable to procure it because of poverty; let poverty force them into
doing work against which every fibre of their being revolts, as it has
forced me, and then see if their lives will be happy.

My school life had been dull and uneventful. The one incident of any note
had been the day that the teacher, better known as old Harris, "stood up"
to the inspector. The latter was a precise, collar-and-cuffs sort of
little man. He gave one the impression of having all his ideas on the
subjects he thought worthy of attention carefully culled and packed in
his brain-pan, and neatly labelled, so that he might without fluster
pounce upon any of them at a moment's warning. He was gentlemanly and
respectable, and discharged his duties punctiliously in a manner
reflecting credit on himself and his position, but, comparing the mind of
a philanthropist to the Murrumbidgee in breadth, his, in comparison,
might be likened to the flow of a bucket of water in a dray-rut.

On the day in question--a precious hot one it was--he had finished
examining us in most subjects, and was looking at our copy-books. He
looked up from them, ahemed! and fastidiously straightened his waistcoat.

"Mr Harris!

"Yes, sir."

"Comparisons are odious, but, unfortunately, I am forced to draw one
now."

"Yes, sir."

"This writing is much inferior to that of town scholars. It is very shaky
and irregular. Also, I notice that the children seem stupid and dull. I
don't like putting it so plainly, but, in fact, ah, they seem to be
possessed with the proverbial stupidity of country people. How do you
account for this?"

Poor old Harris! In spite of his drunken habits and inability to properly
discharge his duties, he had a warm heart and much fellowshiply humanity
in him. He understood and loved his pupils, and would not have aspersions
cast upon them. Besides, the nip he had taken to brace himself to meet
the inspector had been two or three, and they robbed him of the
discretion which otherwise might have kept him silent.

"Si-r-r-r, I can and will account for it. Look you at every one of those
children. Every one, right down to this little tot," indicating a little
girl of five, "has to milk and work hard before and after school, besides
walk on an average two miles to and from school in this infernal heat.
Most of the elder boys and girls milk on an average fourteen cows morning
and evening. You try that treatment for a week or two, my fine gentleman,
and then see if your fist doesn't ache and shake so that you can't write
at all. See if you won't look a trifle dozy. Stupidity of country people
be hanged! If you had to work from morning till night in the heat and
dust, and get precious little for it too, I bet you wouldn't have much
time to scrape your finger-nails, read science notes, and look smart."
Here he took off his coat and shaped up to his superior.

The inspector drew back in consternation.

"Mr Harris, you forget yourself!"

At this juncture they went outside together. What happened there we never
knew. That is all we heard of the matter except the numerous garbled
accounts which were carried home that afternoon.


A DROUGHT IDYLL

"Sybylla, what are you doing? Where is your mother?"

"I'm ironing. Mother's down at the fowl-house seeing after some chickens.
What do you want?"

It was my father who addressed me. Time, 2 o'clock p.m. Thermometer hung
in the shade of the veranda registering 105 1/2 degrees.

"I see Blackshaw coming across the flat. Call your mother. You bring the
leg-ropes--I've got the dog-leg. Come at once; we'll give the cows another
lift. Poor devils--might as well knock 'em on the head at once, but there
might be rain next moon. This drought can't last for ever."

I called mother, got the leg-ropes, and set off, pulling my sun-bonnet
closely over my face to protect my eyes from the dust which was driving
from the west in blinding clouds. The dog-leg to which father had
referred was three poles about eight or ten feet long, strapped together
so they could be stood up. It was an arrangement father had devised to
facilitate our labour in lifting the cows. A fourth and longer pole was
placed across the fork formed by the three, and to one end of this were
tied a couple of leg-ropes, after being placed round the beast, one
beneath the flank and one around the girth. On the other end of this pole
we would put our weight while one man would lift with the tail and
another with the horns. New-chum cows would sulk, and we would have great
work with them; but those used to the performance would help themselves,
and up they'd go as nice as a daisy. The only art needed was to draw the
pole back quickly before the cows could move, or the leg-ropes would pull
them over again.

On this afternoon we had six cows to lift. We struggled manfully, and got
five on their feet, and then proceeded to where the last one was lying,
back downwards, on a shadeless stony spot on the side of a hill. The men
slewed her round by the tail, while mother and I fixed the dog-leg and
adjusted the ropes. We got the cow up, but the poor beast was so weak
and knocked about that she immediately fell down again. We resolved to
let her have a few minutes' spell before making another attempt at
lifting. There was not a blade of grass to be seen, and the ground was
too dusty to sit on. We were too overdone to make more than one-worded
utterances, so waited silently in the blazing sun, closing our eyes
against the dust.

Weariness! Weariness!

A few light wind-smitten clouds made wan streaks across the white sky,
haggard with the fierce relentless glare of the afternoon sun. Weariness
was written across my mother's delicate careworn features, and found
expression in my father's knitted brows and dusty face. Blackshaw was
weary, and said so, as he wiped the dust, made mud with perspiration, off
his cheeks. I was weary--my limbs ached with the heat and work. The poor
beast stretched at our feet was weary. All nature was weary, and seemed
to sing a dirge to that effect in the furnace-breath wind which roared
among the trees on the low ranges at our back and smote the parched and
thirsty ground. All were weary, all but the sun. He seemed to glory in
his power, relentless and untiring, as he swung boldly in the sky,
triumphantly leering down upon his helpless victims.

Weariness! Weariness!

This was life--my life--my career, my brilliant career! I was
fifteen--fifteen! A few fleeting hours and I would be old as those around
me. I looked at them as they stood there, weary, and turning down the
other side of the hill of life. When young, no doubt they had hoped for,
and dreamed of, better things--had even known them. But here they were.
This had been their life; this was their career. It was, and in all
probability would be, mine too. My life--my career--my brilliant career!

Weariness! Weariness!

The summer sun danced on. Summer is fiendish, and life is a curse, I said
in my heart. What a great dull hard rock the world was! On it were a few
barren narrow ledges, and on these, by exerting ourselves so that the
force wears off our finger-nails, it allows us to hang for a year or two,
and then hurls us off into outer darkness and oblivion, perhaps to endure
worse torture than this.

The poor beast moaned. The lifting had strained her, and there were
patches of hide worn off her the size of breakfast-plates, sore and most
harrowing to look upon.

It takes great suffering to wring a moan from the patience of a cow. I
turned my head away, and with the impatience and one-sided reasoning
common to fifteen, asked God what He meant by this. It is well enough to
heap suffering on human beings, seeing it is supposed to be merely a
probation for a better world, but animals--poor, innocent animals--why are
they tortured so?

"Come now, we'll lift her once more," said my father. At it we went
again; it is surprising what weight there is in the poorest cow. With
great struggling we got her to her feet once more, and were careful this
time to hold her till she got steady on her legs. Father and mother at
the tail and Blackshaw and I at the horns, we marched her home and gave
her a bran mash. Then we turned to our work in the house while the men
sat and smoked and spat on the veranda, discussing the drought for an
hour, at the end of which time they went to help someone else with their
stock. I made up the fire and we continued our ironing, which had been
interrupted some hours before. It was hot unpleasant work on such a day.
We were forced to keep the doors and windows closed on account of the
wind and dust. We were hot and tired, and our feet ached so that we could
scarcely stand on them.

Weariness! Weariness!

Summer is fiendish and life is a curse, I said in my heart.

Day after day the drought continued. Now and again there would be a few
days of the raging wind before mentioned, which carried the dry grass off
the paddocks and piled it against the fences, darkened the air with dust,
and seemed to promise rain, but ever it dispersed whence it came, taking
with it the few clouds it had gathered up; and for weeks and weeks at a
stretch, from horizon to horizon, was never a speck to mar the cruel
dazzling brilliance of the metal sky.

Weariness! Weariness!

I said the one thing many times but, ah, it was a weary thing which took
much repetition that familiarity might wear away a little of its
bitterness!


CHAPTER SIX


Revolt


In spite of our pottering and lifting, with the exception of five, all
our cows eventually died; and even these and a couple of horses had as
much as they could do to live on the whole of the thousand acres which,
without reserve, were at their disposal. They had hardly any grass--it
was merely the warmth and water which kept them alive. Needless to say,
we were on our beam-ends financially. However, with a little help from
more fortunate relatives, and with the money obtained from the sale of
the cowhides and mother's poultry, we managed to pay the interest on the
money borrowed from the bishop, and keep bread in our mouths.

Unfortunately for us, at this time the bishop's agent proved a scoundrel
and absconded. My father held receipts to show that to this agent he had
regularly paid the interest of the money borrowed; but through some
finicking point of law, because we had not money to contend with him, his
lordship the bishop now refused to acknowledge his agent and one-time
pillar of the cathedral, and, having law on his side, served a writ on
us. In the face of our misfortunes this was too much: we begged for time,
which plea he answered by putting in the bailiff and selling everything
we possessed. Our five cows, two horses, our milk separator, plough,
cart, dray, buggy, even our cooking utensils, books, pictures, furniture,
father's watch--our very beds, pillows, and blankets. Not a thing besides
what we stood up in was left us, and this was money for the payment of
which my father held receipts.

But for the generosity of our relatives we would have been in a pretty
plight. They sent us sufficient means to buy iii everything, and our
neighbours came to our rescue with enthusiasm and warm-hearted genuine
sympathy. The bailiff--a gentleman to the core--seeing how matters stood,
helped us to the utmost of his power.

Our goods were disposed of on the premises, and the neighbours arranged a
mock sale, at which the bailiff winked. Our friends had sent the money,
and the neighbours did the bidding--none bidding against each other--and
thus our belongings went for a mere trifle. Every cloud has its silver
lining, and the black cloud of poverty has a very bright silver lining.

In poverty you can get at the real heart of people as you can never do if
rich. People are your friends from pure friendship and love, not from
sponging self-interestedness. It is worth being poor once or twice in a
lifetime just to experience the blessing and heartrestfulness of a little
genuine reality in the way of love and friendship. Not that it is
impossible for opulence to have genuine friends, but rich people, I fear,
must ever have at their heart cankering suspicion to hint that the
friendship and love lavished upon them is merely self-interestedness and
sham, the implements of trade used by the fawning toadies who swarm
around wealth.

In conjunction with the bishop's name, the approaching sale of our goods
had been duly advertised in the local papers, and my father received
several letters of sympathy from the clergy deploring the conduct of the
bishop. These letters were from men unknown to father, who were unaware
that Richard Melvyn was being sold off for a debt already paid.

By the generosity of relatives and the goodness of neighbours as kind as
ever breathed, our furniture was our own again, but what were we to do
for a living? Our crops were withering in the fields for want of rain,
and we had but five cows--not an over-bright outlook. As I was getting to
bed one night my mother came into my room and said seriously, "Sybylla, I
want to have a talk with you."

"'What?'
"'To say that you sunk the "Speedwell."'
"Wilbur gathered his strength as if to strike; his face was distorted
with passion.

"'You lie, you yellow hound!'
"'Exactly--Captain, be careful--come no nearer! Also, leave me alone.
If you value your life, you will keep silence and stay a little
forward.

Go, quickly! Here I could shoot you with the greatest impunity.'"
Nichols paused. "Maybe some of you fellows haven't seen Lee Fu's cruising
sampan," he remarked. "In reality, she's more of a junk than a sampan,
a sizable craft of over a hundred tons, and the best product of the Chinese
shipyard. Lee Fu had her built for trips along the coast, and many of
his own ideas, born of an expert knowledge of ships of every nationality
entered into her construction. The result is distinctly a Chinese
creation, a craft that seems to reflect his personality, that responds
to his touch and works with him.

She's higher in the bows than an ordinary junk, and lower in the stern; a
broad, shallow hull that needs a centerboard on the wind.

Of course she's completely decked over for heavy weather.

In charge of any of us, perhaps, she would be unmanageable; but in his
hands, I can assure you, she's a sea boat of remarkable attainments.

"I had seen him handle her under difficult conditions, but never in such
a pass as this.

How he did it was inconceivable to me. The last I saw of him that night
he had called two men to help him at the tiller; and, so far, he had kept
the craft before the wind.

"For many hours I was surrounded by pitch blackness and the storm. I
clung to a single stanchion, hardly changing my position during the night,
drenched by rain and spray, seeing nothing, hearing no word.

The gale roared above us with that peculiar tearing sound that accompanies
the body of a typhoon; a sound suggestive of unearthly anger and violence,
as if elemental forces were ripping up the envelope of the universe.

The wind gained steadily in volume; it picked up the sea in steep ridges
of solid water that flung us like a chip from crest to crest, or caught
us, burst above us and swallowed us whole, as if we had suddenly
sunk in a deep well.

Every moment I expected would be our last.
Yet, as time wore on, I felt through the sampan's frantic floundering
a hand of guidance, a touch of mastery.

Lee Fu steered, and she was still in his control. A night to turn the
hair gray, to shatter the mind.

"But we came through, and saw the dawn. A pale watery light little by
little crept into the east, disclosing a scene of terror beyond
description. The face of the sea was livid with flying yellow foam; the
torn sky hung closely over it like the fringe of a mighty waterfall.
In the midst of this churning cauldron our little craft seemed
momently on the point of disappearing, engulfed by the wrath of the
elements.

"In the lull of the storm my glance encountered Wilbur; for a long
while I'd forgotten him entirely.

He hung to the rail a little farther forward, gazing across the maelstrom
with a fixed, exhausted expression.
His face was haggard; the strain of the night had marked him with a ruthless
hand. As I watched him, his eye turned slowly in my direction; he
gave me an anxious look, then crawled along the rail to a place
by my side.

"'Nichols, we're lost!' I heard him cry in my ear. The voice was almost
plaintive; it suddenly made me angry, revived a few sparks of my
own courage.

"'What of it?' I cried harshly.

'Turner was lost.'
"'You believe that, too?'

"I looked at him point-blank; his eyes shifted; he couldn't face me
now.
'Yes, I do,' I told him. 'Why don't you own up, before--?'
"He moved away hastily, as if offended to the heart.

But the strong man had gone, the air of perfect confidence had disappeared;
he was shattered and spent--but not yet broken. Pride is more tenacious
than courage; and men with hearts of water will continue to function
through self-esteem.

"Looking above his head, where the sky and the sea met in a blanket
of flying spume, I caught sight for an instant of something that
resembled the vague form of a headland.

Watching closely, I soon saw it again--unmistakably the shadow of
land to port, well forward, of the beam.

Land! That meant that the wind had shifted to the southward, that we were
being blown against the shore.

"I worked my way cautiously aft, where Lee Fu stood like a man of iron
at the tiller, lashed to the heavy cross-rail that must have been
constructed for such occasions.

He saw me coming, leaned toward me.

"'Land!' I shouted, pointing on the port bow.

"He nodded vigorously, to show me that he'd already seen it.
'Recognize--' The rest of the answer was blown away by the wind.

"By pantomime, I called his attention to the shift of the storm. Again
he nodded--then ducked his head in Wilbur's direction, and shouted something
that I couldn't quite follow.

'Change our tactics--we must change our tactics--' was what I understood
him to say.

"He beckoned me to come closer; grasping the cross-rail, I swung down
beside him.

"'I know our position,' he cried in my ear. 'Have no alarm, my friend.
There are two large islands, and a third, small like a button. Watch closely
the button, while I steer. When it touches the high headland, give me
the news instantly.'
"He had hauled the junk a trifle to port, and with every opportunity
was edging toward the land.

The tall headland that I'd first sighted grew plainer with every moment;
soon I made out the island like a button and saw it closing rapidly
on the land behind.

"'Now!' I shouted to Lee Fu, when the two had touched.

"He swung the sampan a couple of points to starboard, discovering
close beneath our bows the tip of another reef that stretched toward
the land diagonally across the path of the wind.

In a moment we were almost abreast this point of reef; a hundred yards
away, its spray lashed our decks as the low-lying black rocks
caught the broken wash of the storm.

Another swing of the great tiller, and we had hauled up in the lee of the
reef--in quiet water at last, but with the gale still screaming
overhead like a defeated demon.

"It was like nothing but a return from hell. The wind held us in a solid
blast; but to feel the deck grow quiet, to be able to speak, to
hear--and then, to see the land close aboard. By Jove, we were saved!

"A voice spoke gruffly beside us. 'By God, I hope you're satisfied!' We
turned to see Wilbur at the head of the cross-rail.

A twitching face belied the nonchalance that he'd attempted to throw
into the words.

"'I don't know how we lived!' he snarled. 'What in the name of God made
you try it? Nothing but luck--and now the typhoon's leaving us. We
can wait here till the blow dies down.'
"'Is that all, Captain, that you have to say?' inquired Lee Fu, his
attention riveted on the course.

"Wilbur clutched the rail as if he would tear it from its fastenings. 'A
damned sight more, you blackguard; but I'll save it for the
authorities!'

"'You feel no thanks for your escape--and there is nothing on your mind?'

"'Nothing but sleep--why should there be? Let's wind up this farce and
get to anchor somewhere; I'm fagged out.'
"'No, we are going on,' said Lee Fu calmly, making no move to come
into the wind.

'No time for rest, Captain; the journey is not done.'
"'Going on?' He turned fiercely, and for a moment he and Lee Fu gazed
deep into each other's eyes in a grapple that gave no quarter.

"'Yes, Captain!' cried Lee Fu sharply. 'We have not yet reached the
spot where the "Speedwell" met her doom. Now go! I cannot waste time in
talk.'
"Since this experience, I've many times examined the charts of the
region," Nichols went on. "But they don't begin to show it all. Beyond
the middle island stretched a larger island, distant some five miles
from the other; and between them lay the most intricate,
extraordinary and terrible nest of reefs ever devised by the mind
of the Maker and the hand of geologic change.

"The outlying fringe of reefs that had broken first approach ended at the
middle island; beyond that to windward lay clear water, and the
nest of reefs that I've mentioned received the full force of the
wind and sea.

Five miles of water stretched in mad confusion, a solid whiteness of
spouting foam that seemed to hold a hideous illumination. Beyond the
point of the middle island the long wind-swept rollers burst in tall
columns of spray that shut off the view like a curtain as we drew
near, where the rocks began in an unbroken wall.

"It was directly against this wall that Lee Fu was driving the
sampan.

The first lift of the outside swell had already caught us. I held my breath,
as moment by moment we cut down the margin of safety. No use to interfere;
perhaps he knew what he was doing; perhaps he actually had gone mad under
the terrific strain.

As he steered, he seemed to be watching intently for landmarks. Was it
possible that he still knew his bearings, that there was a way
through?

"Wilbur, at Lee Fu's command, had left us without a word. He stood at
the rail, supporting himself by main strength, facing the frightful
line of the approaching reefs; and on his back was written the
desperate struggle he was having.

It bent and twisted, sagging with sudden irresolution, writhing with stubborn
obduracy, straightening and shaking itself at times in a wave of
firmness and confidence, only to quail once more before the sight
that met his eyes.

He couldn't believe that Lee Fu would hold the course.

'Only another moment!'

he kept crying to himself.
'Hold on a little longer!' Yet his will had been sapped by the long hours
of the night and the terror of the dawn; and courage, which with him
had rested only on the sands of ostentation, had crumbled long ago.

"I turned away, overcome by a sickening sensation; I couldn't look
longer. Lee Fu waited tensely, peering ahead and to windward with lightning
glances. A wave caught us, flung us forward. Suddenly I heard him cry out
at my side in exultation as he bore down on the tiller. The cry was echoed
from forward by a loud scream that shot like an arrow through the thunder.
Wilbur had sunk beside the rail. The sampan fell off, carried high on
the wave.

"Then, in a moment like the coming of death, we plunged into the reef. I
have no knowledge of what took place--and there are no words to tell the
story. Solid water swamped us; the thunder of the surf stopped the
mind.

But we didn't touch, there was a way through, we had crossed the outer
margin of the reef. We ran the terrible gauntlet of the reef,
surrounded on every hand by towering breakers, lost in the appalling roar
of the elements. Without warning, we were flung between a pair of jagged
ledges and launched bodily on the surface of a concealed lagoon.

"A low rocky island lay in the center of the nest of reefs, with a stretch
of open water to leeward of it, all completely hidden from view until that
moment. The open water ran for perhaps a couple of miles; beyond it the
surf began again in another unbroken line.

It would take us ten minutes to cross the lagoon.

"'Bring Captain Wilbur,' said Lee Fu.

"I crept forward, where Wilbur lay beside the rail, his arm around a
stanchion. He was moaning to himself as if he'd been injured. I kicked him
roughly; he lifted an ashen face.

"'Come aft--you're wanted,' I cried.

"He followed like a dog. Lee Fu, at the tiller, beckoned us to stand
beside him; I pulled Wilbur up by the slack of his coat, and pinned him
against the cross-rail.

"'This is the end,' said Lee Fu, speaking in loud jerks, as he steered
across the lagoon. 'There is no way out, except by the way we came. That
way is closed.

Here we can find shelter until the storm passes, if you will speak. If
not, we shall go on. By this time. Captain, you know me to be a man of my
word.'
"'You yellow devil!'
"'Beyond these reefs, Captain, lies the wreck of your ship the
"Speedwell."

There my friend met death at your hands.

You have had full time to consider. Will you join him, or return to
Hong Kong? A word will save you. And remember that the moments are passing
very swiftly.'
"With a last flicker of obstinate pride, Wilbur pulled himself together
and whirled on us. 'It's a damnable lie!'
"'Very well, Captain. Go forward once more, and reserve your final
explanation for the gods.'
"The flicker of pride persisted; Wilbur staggered off, holding by the rail.
I waited beside Lee Fu. Thus we stood, watching the approach of the
lagoon's leeward margin. Had Lee Fu spoken truthfully; was there no way
out? I couldn't be certain; all I knew was that the wall of spouting
surf was at our bows, that the jaws of death seemed opening again.

"Suddenly Wilbur's head snapped back; he flung up his arms in a gesture
of finality, shaking clenched fists into the sky. He was at the point
of surrender. The torture had reached his vitals. He floundered aft.

"'What is it I must say?'

he cried hoarsely, in a voice that by its very abasement had taken
on a certain dignity.

"'Say that you sunk the "Speedwell."'
"His face was shocking; a strong man breaking isn't a pleasant
object.

In a flash I realized how awful had been this struggle of the wills. He
came to the decision as we watched, lost his last grip.

"'Of course I did it! You knew it all along! I had no intention--You madman!
For God's sake, haul up, before you're in the breakers!'
"'Show me your insurance money.'
"Wilbur dug frantically in an inside pocket, produced a packet of
bank notes, held them in a hand that trembled violently as the gale
fluttered the crisp leaves.

"'Throw them overboard.'

"For the fraction of a second he hesitated; then all resolution went out
in his eyes like a dying flame. He extended his arm and loosed the notes;
they were gone down the wind before our eyes could follow them.

"In the same instant Lee Fu flung down the great tiller. The sampan came
into the wind with a shock that threw us to the deck. Close under our
lee quarter lay the breakers, less than a couple of hundred yards
away.
Lee Fu made frantic signals forward, where the crew were watching us
in utter terror.

I felt the centerboard drop; a patch of sail rose on the main. The
boat answered, gathered headway, drove forward--
"Wilbur lay as he had fallen and made no move.

"Two nights later, under a clear starry sky, we slipped through Lymoon
Pass on the tail of the land breeze. It fell flat calm before we reached
Wanchi; the long sweeps were shipped, and the chattering crew, who'd never
expected to see Hong Kong again, fell to work willingly. At length we
rounded to against the bulkhead and settled into our berth, as if back
from a late pleasure trip down the bay.

"A little forward, Wilbur rose to his feet.

He hadn't spoken or touched food since that tragic hour under the reefs two
nights before.

Without a glance in our direction, he made for the side and stepped
ashore. There was a bright light behind him; his form stood out plainly.
It had lost the lines of vigor and alertness; it was the figure of
a different and older man.

"A moment later he had lurched away, vanishing in the darkness of a side
street. Three days later, we heard that he had taken the boat for
Singapore.

He hasn't been seen or heard of since that day.

"When he had gone, that night at the bulkhead, Lee Fu reached out
a hand to help me to my feet.

'Thank you, Captain,' he said. 'For my part, it has been supremely
interesting.

For your part, I hope that you have been repaid?'
"'It's enough to be alive, just now,' I answered.

'I want a chart, Lee Fu.

I want to see what you did. How you did it is quite beyond my comprehension.'

"'Oh, that? It was not much. The gods were always with us, as you
must have observed.

And I know that place pretty well.'

"'Evidently.

Did the "Speedwell" fetch up among those reefs, or to leeward of
them?'

"'The "Speedwell?"

Captain, you did not believe my little pleasantry!

We were nowhere near the wreck of the "Speedwell," as Captain Wilbur
should have known had he retained his mind.'

"I smiled feebly. 'I didn't know it.

Tell me another thing, Lee Fu.

Were you bluffing, there at the last, or wasn't there really a hole through
the reef?'

"'So far as I am aware, Captain, there was no passage,' answered my
imperturbable friend. 'I believe we were heading for the rocks when
we came into the wind.'
"'Would you have piled us up?'
"'That is merely a hypothetical question.

I knew that I would not be forced to do it.

I was only afraid that, in the final anguish, Captain Wilbur would lose
his sense of seamanship, and so would wait too long.
That, I confess, would have been unfortunate. Otherwise, there was no
doubt or especial danger.'
"'I'm glad to know it!' I exclaimed, with a shudder of recollection. 'It
wasn't apparent at the time.'
"'No, perhaps not; time was very swift. In fact, he did wait too long.
He was more willful than I had anticipated.'
"I gazed across the harbor, reviewing the experience. 'What did you have
in mind,' I asked, 'before the typhoon shifted?

Did you expect to catch the center?'

"'I had no plan; it is dangerous to plan.

There was a task to be begun; the determination of its direction
and result lay with the gods.

It was plain that I had been called upon to act; but beyond that I neither
saw nor cared to see.'

"I could believe him only because I'd witnessed his incredible calm. He
waved a hand toward the city. 'Come, my friend, let us sleep,' he said.

'We have earned our rest.

Learn from this never to plan, and always to beware of
overconfidence.

It is by straining to look into the future that men exhaust themselves for
present duty; and it is by making their little plans that men bring down
the wrath of the gods. We are their instruments, molding in faith and
humility our various destinies.
Perhaps you thought me unfeeling, but I was only happy. There constantly
were too many propitious signs.'"

THE LIZARD GOD[7]
By CHARLES J. FINGER
(From _All's Well_)

It is not pleasant to have one's convictions disturbed, and that is why
I wish I had never seen that man Rounds. He seems to have crossed my path
only to shake my self-confidence. The little conversation we had has
left me dissatisfied. I look upon my collection with less interest
than I did. I am not as pleased with the result of my investigations as
they appear in my monograph on "The Saurian Family of Equatorial America."
Doubtless the mood that now possesses me will pass away, and I
shall recover my equanimity. His story would have upset most men. Worse
still was his unpleasant habit of interjecting strange opinions. Judge
for yourself.

It was when passing through the Reptile room on my way to the study that
I first saw him. I took him to be a mere common working man
passing away an idle hour; one of the ordinary Museum visitors. Two hours
later, I noticed that he was closely examining the lizard cases. Then
later, he seemed interested in my collection of prints illustrating the
living world of the ante-diluvian period. It was then that I
approached him, and, finding him apparently intelligent, with, as
it seemed, a bent towards lizards, and further, discovering that
he had traveled in Peru and Colombia, took him to the study.

The man had some unusual habits. He was absolutely lacking in that sense
of respect, as I may term it, usually accorded to one in my
position.
One who is a professor and curator becomes accustomed to a certain
amount of, well, diffidence in laymen. The attitude is entirely
natural.
It is a tribute. But Rounds was not that way. He was perfectly at
ease.
He had an air of quiet self-possession. He refused the chair I
indicated, the chair set for visitors and students, and instead,
walked to the window and threw up the lower sash, taking a seat on
the sill, with one foot resting on the floor and the other swinging.
Thus, he looked as though he were prepared to leap, or to jump or
run. He gave me the impression of being on the alert. Without asking
permission, he filled and lit his pipe, taking his tobacco from a
queerly made pouch, and using but one hand in the process.
"What I was looking for," he said, "is a kind of lizard. Yet it is
not a lizard. It is too hard and thin in the body to be that. It
runs on its hind legs. It is white. Its bite is poisonous. It lives
in the equatorial districts of Colombia."
"Have you seen one?" I asked.
"No," was the reply. Then after a moment he asked, "Why?"
"Because there is no such living creature," I said.
"How do you know?" he said abruptly.
"The lizard group is thoroughly classified," I said. "There is
nothing answering to that description. In the first place--"
"Does that make it non-existent? Your classification of what you
know?" he interrupted.
"I have made a study of the Saurians," I said.
"No you haven't," he said. "You have read what other men have written
and that is not the same thing."
"Really," I began, but he broke in.
"I mean to say that you have never been in any new equatorial
country," he said. "Your manner shows that. You are too quiet. Too
easy. Too sedentary. You would have been killed because of your
lack of vigilance."
That is, as nearly as I can repeat and remember, the opening of the
conversation. There was an air of challenge about the man that I
found unpleasant. Of course I admitted the fact that I was not an
explorer myself, and that mine was the humbler if more tedious task
of collecting and arranging data. At that he said that in his
opinion, organized expeditions were little more than pleasure jaunts
taken at the public expense. His viewpoint was most extraordinary.
"Such an expedition," he said, "must fail in its main purpose because
its very unwieldiness destroys or disperses the very things it was
organized to study. It cannot penetrate the wilds; it cannot get
into the dry lands. The very needs of the men and horses and dogs
prevent that. It must keep to beaten tracks and in touch with the
edge of civilization. The members of such an expedition are mere
killers on a large scale, and to kill or to hunt a thing is to not
know it at all.I studied the girls of my age around me, and
compared myself with them. We had been reared side by side. They had had
equal advantages; some, indeed, had had greater. We all moved in the one
little, dull world, but they were not only in their world, they were of
it; I was not. Their daily tasks and their little pleasures provided
sufficient oil for the lamp of their existence--mine demanded more than
Possum Gully could supply. They were totally ignorant of the outside
world. Patti, Melba, Irving, Terry, Kipling, Caine, Corelli, and even the
name of Gladstone, were only names to them. Whether they were islands or
racehorses they knew not and cared not. With me it was different. Where I
obtained my information, unless it was born in me, I do not know. We took
none but the local paper regularly, I saw few books, had the pleasure of
conversing with an educated person from the higher walks of life about
once in a twelvemonth, yet I knew of every celebrity in literature, art,
music, and drama; their world was my world, and in fancy I lived with
them. My parents discouraged me in that species of foolishness. They had
been fond of literature and the higher arts, but now, having no use for
them, had lost interest therein.

I was discontented and restless, and longed unendurably to be out in the
stream of life. "Action! Action! Give me action!" was my cry. My mother
did her best with me according to her lights. She energetically preached
at me. All the old saws and homilies were brought into requisition, but
without avail. It was like using common nostrums on a disease which could
be treated by none but a special physician.

I was treated to a great deal of harping on that tiresome old string,
"Whatsoever your hand findeth to do, do it with all your might." It was
daily dinned into my cars that the little things of life were the
noblest, and that all the great people I mooned about said the same. I
usually retorted to the effect that I was well aware that it was noble,
and that I could write as good an essay on it as any philosopher. It was
all very well for great people to point out the greatness of the little,
empty, humdrum life. Why didn't they adopt it themselves?


The toad beneath the harrow knows
Exactly where each tooth-point goes.
The butterfly upon the road
Preaches contentment to the toad.

I wasn't anxious to patronize the dull kind of tame nobility of the toad;
I longed for a few of the triumphs of the butterfly, decried though they
are as hollow bubbles. I desired life while young enough to live, and
quoted as my motto:


Though the pitcher that goes to the sparkling rill
Too oft gets broken at last,
There are scores of others its place to fill
When its earth to the earth is cast.
Keep that pitcher at home, let it never roam,
But lie like a useless clod;
Yet sooner or later the hour will come
When its chips are thrown to the sod.

Is it wise, then, say, in the waning day,
When the vessel is crack'd and old,
To cherish the battered potter's clay
As though it were virgin gold?
Take care of yourself, dull, boorish elf,
Though prudent and sage you seem;
Your pitcher will break on the musty shelf,
And mine by the dazzling stream.


I had sense sufficient to see the uselessness of attempting to be other
than I was. In these days of fierce competition there was no chance for
me--opportunity, not talent, was the main requisite. Fate had thought fit
to deny me even one advantage or opportunity, thus I was helpless. I set
to work to cut my coat according to my cloth. I manfully endeavoured to
squeeze my spirit into "that state of life into which it has pleased God
to call me". I crushed, compressed, and bruised, but as fast as I managed
it on one side it burst out on another, and defied me to cram it into the
narrow box of Possum Gully.


The restless throbbings and burnings
That hope unsatisfied brings,
The weary longings and yearnings
For the mystical better things,
Are the sands on which is reflected
The pitiless moving lake,
Where the wanderer falls dejected,
By a thirst he never can slake.


In a vain endeavour to slake that cruel thirst my soul groped in strange
dark places. It went out in quest of a God, and finding one not, grew
weary.

By the unknown way that the atmosphere of the higher life penetrated to
me, so came a knowledge of the sin and sorrow abroad in the world--the
cry of the millions oppressed, downtrodden, God-forsaken! The wheels of
social mechanism needed readjusting--things were awry. Oh, that I might
find a cure and give it to my fellows! I dizzied my brain with the
problem; I was too much for myself. A man with these notions is a curse
to himself, but a woman--pity help a woman of that description! She is not
merely a creature out of her sphere, she is a creature without a sphere--a
lonely being!

Recognizing this, I turned and cursed God for casting upon me a burden
greater than I could bear--cursed Him bitterly, and from within came a
whisper that there was nothing there to curse. There was no God. I was an
unbeliever. It was not that I sought after or desired atheism. I longed
to be a Christian, and fought against unbelief. I asked the Christians
around me for help. Unsophisticated fool! I might as well have announced
that I was a harlot. My respectability vanished in one slap. Some said it
was impossible to disbelieve in the existence of a God: I was only doing
it for notoriety, and they washed their hands of me at once.

Not believe in God! I was mad!

If there really was a God, would they kindly tell me how to find Him?

Pray! pray!

I prayed, often and ardently, but ever came that heart-stilling whisper
that there was nothing to pray to.

Ah, the bitter, hopeless heart-hunger of godlessness none but an atheist
can understand! Nothing to live for in life--no hope beyond the grave. It
plunged me into fits of profound melancholy.

Had my father occupied one of the fat positions of the land, no doubt as
his daughter my life would have been so full of pleasant occupation and
pleasure that I would not have developed the spirit which torments me
now. Or had I a friend--one who knew, who had suffered and understood, one
in whom I could lose myself, one on whom I could lean--I might have grown
a nicer character. But in all the wide world there was not a soul to hold
out a hand to me, and I said bitterly, "There is no good in the world."
In softer moods I said, "Ah, the tangle of it! Those who have the heart
to help have not the power, and those who have the power have not the
heart."

Bad, like a too-strong opponent in a game of chess, is ever at the elbow
of good to checkmate it like a weakly managed king.

I am sadly lacking in self-reliance. I needed some one to help me over
the rough spots in life, and finding them not, at the age of sixteen I
was as rank a cynic and infidel as could be found in three days' march.


CHAPTER EIGHT


Possum Gully Left Behind. Hurrah! Hurrah!


If a Sydney man has friends residing at Goulburn, he says they are up the
country. If a Goulburn man has friends at Yass, he says they are up the
country. If a Yass man has friends at Young, he says they are up the
country, and so on. Caddagat is "up the country".

Bound thither on the second Wednesday in August 1896, I bought a ticket
at the Goulburn railway station, and at some time about 1 a.m. took my
seat in a second class carriage of the mail-train on its way to
Melbourne. I had three or four hours to travel in this train when I would
have to change to a branch line for two hours longer. I was the only one
from Goulburn in that carriage; all the other passengers had been in some
time and were asleep. One or two opened their eyes strugglingly, stared
glumly at the intruder, and then went to sleep again. The motion of the
train was a joy to me, and sleep never entered my head. I stood up, and
pressing my forehead to the cold window-pane, vainly attempted, through
the inky blackness of the foggy night, to discern the objects which flew
by.

I was too full of pleasant anticipation of what was ahead of me to think
of those I had left behind. I did not regret leaving Possum Gully. Quite
the reverse; I felt inclined to wave my arms and yell for joy at being
freed from it. Home! God forbid that my experiences at Possum Gully
should form the only food for my reminiscences of home. I had practically
grown up there, but my heart refused absolutely to regard it as home. I
hated it then, I hate it now, with its narrowing, stagnant monotony. It
has and had not provided me with one solitary fond remembrance--only with
dreary, wing-clipping, mind-starving recollections. No, no; I was not
leaving home behind, I was flying homeward now. Home, home to Caddagat,
home to ferny gullies, to the sweet sad rush of many mountain waters, to
the majesty of rugged Borgongs; home to dear old grannie, and uncle and
aunt, to books, to music; refinement, company, pleasure, and the dear old
homestead I love so well.

All in good time I arrived at the end of my train journey, and was taken
in charge by a big red-bearded man, who informed me he was the driver of
the mail-coach, and had received a letter from Mrs Bossier instructing
him to take care of me. He informed me also that he was glad to do what
he termed "that same", and I would be as safe under his care as I would
be in God's pocket.

My twenty-six miles' coach drive was neither pleasant nor eventful. I was
the only passenger, and so had my choice of seats. The weather being cold
and wet, I preferred being inside the box and curled myself up on the
seat, to be interrupted every two or three miles by the good-natured
driver inquiring if I was "all serene".

At the Halfway House, where a change of the team of five horses was
affected, I had a meal and a warm, and so tuned myself up for the
remainder of the way. It got colder as we went on, and at 2.30 p.m. I was
not at all sorry to see the iron roofs of Gool-Gool. township disclosing
to my view. We first went to the post office, where the mail-bags were
delivered, and then returned and pulled rein in front of the Woolpack
Hotel. A tall young gentleman in a mackintosh and cap, who had been
standing on the veranda, stepped out on the street as the coach stopped,
and lifting his cap and thrusting his head into the coach, inquired,
"Which is Miss Melvyn?"

Seeing I was the only occupant, he laughed the pleasantest of laughs,
disclosing two wide rows of perfect teeth, and turning to the driver,
said, Is that your only passenger? I suppose it is Miss Melvyn?"

"As I wasn't present at her birth, I can't swear, but I believe her to be
that same, as sure as eggs is eggs," he replied.

My identity being thus established, the young gentleman with the greatest
of courtesy assisted me to alight, ordered the hotel groom to stow my
luggage in the Caddagat buggy, and harness the horses with all
expedition. He then conducted me to the private parlour, where a friendly
little barmaid had some refreshments on a tray awaiting me, and while
warming my feet preparatory to eating I read the letter he had given me,
which was addressed in my grandmother's handwriting. In it she told me
that she and my aunt were only just recovering from bad colds, and on
account of the inclemency of the weather thought it unwise to come to
town to meet me; but Frank Hawden, the jackeroo would take every care of
me, settle the hotel bill, and tip the coach-driver. Caddagat was
twenty-four miles distant from Gool-Gool, and the latter part of the road
was very hilly. It was already past three o'clock, and, being rainy, the
short winter afternoon would dose in earlier; so I swallowed my tea and
cake with all expedition, so as not to delay Mr Hawden, who was waiting
to assist me into the buggy, where the groom was in charge of the horses
in the yard. He struck up a conversation with me immediately.

"Seeing your name on yer bags, an' knowin' you was belonging to the
Bossiers, I ask if yer might be a daughter of Dick Melvyn, of
Bruggabrong, out by Timlinbilly."

"Yes, I am."

"Well, miss, please remember me most kindly to yer pa; he was a good boss
was Dick Melvyn. I hope he's doin' well. I'm Billy Haizelip, brother to
Mary and Jane. You remember Jane, I s'pose, miss?"

I hadn't time to say more than promise to send his remembrances to my
father, for Mr Hawden, saying we would be in the dark, had whipped his
horses and was bowling off at a great pace, in less than two minutes
covering a rise which put Gool-Gool out of sight. It was raining a
little, so I held over us the big umbrella, which grannie had sent, while
we discussed the weather, to the effect that rain was badly needed and
was a great novelty nowadays, and it was to be hoped it would continue.
There had been but little, but the soil here away was of that rich loamy
description which little water turns to mud. It clogged the wheels and
loaded the break-blocks; and the near side horse had a nasty way of
throwing his front feet, so that he deposited soft red lumps of mud in
our laps at every step. But, despite these trifling drawbacks, it was
delightful to be drawn without effort by a pair of fat horses in splendid
harness. It was a great contrast to our poor skinny old horse at home,
crawling along in much-broken harness, clumsily and much mended with
string and bits of hide.

Mr Hawden was not at all averse to talking. After emptying our tongues of
the weather, there was silence for some time, which he broke with, "So
you are Mrs Bossier's grand-daughter, are you?"

"Not remembering my birth, I can't swear; but I believe myself to be that
same, as sure as eggs is eggs," I replied.

He laughed. "Very good imitation of the coach-driver. But Mrs Bossier's
grand-daughter! Well, I should smile!"

"What at?"

"Your being Mrs Bossier's grand-daughter."

"I fear, Mr Hawden, there is a suspicion reverse of complimentary in your
remark."

"Well, I should smile! Would you like to have my opinion of you?"

"Nothing would please me more. I would value your opinion above all
things, and I'm sure--I feel certain--that you have formed a true estimate
of me."

At any other time his conceit would have brought upon himself a fine
snubbing, but today I was in high feather, and accordingly very pleasant,
and resolved to amuse myself by drawing him out.

"Well, you are not a bit like Mrs Bossier or Mrs Bell; they are both so
good-looking," he continued.

"Indeed!"

"I was disappointed when I saw you had no pretensions to prettiness, as
there's not a girl up these parts worth wasting a man's affections on,
and I was building great hopes on you. But I'm a great admirer of
beauty," he twaddled.

"I am very sorry for you, Mr Hawden. I'm sure it would take quite a
paragon to be worthy of such affection as I'm sure yours would be," I
replied sympathetically.

"Never mind. Don't worry about it. You're not a bad sort, and
think a fellow could have great fun with you."

"I'm sure, Mr Hawden, you do me too much honour. It quite exhilarates me
to think that I meet with your approval in the smallest degree," I
replied with the utmost deference. "You are so gentlemanly and nice that
I was alarmed at first lest you might despise me altogether."

"No fear. You needn't he afraid of me; I'm not a bad sort of fellow," he
replied with the greatest encouragement.

By his accent and innocent style I detected he was not a colonial, so I
got him to relate his history. He was an Englishman by birth, but had
been to America, Spain, New Zealand, Tasmania, etc.; by his own make out
had ever been a man of note, and had played Old Harry everywhere.

I allowed him to gabble away full tilt for an hour on this subject,
unconscious that I had taken the measure of him, and was grinning broadly
to myself. Then I diverted him by inquiring how long since the wire fence
on our right had been put up. It bore evidence of recent erection, and
had replaced an old cockatoo fence which I remembered in my childhood.

"Fine fence, is it not? Eight wires, a top rail, and very stout posts.
Harry Beecham had that put up by contract this year. Twelve miles of it.
It cost him a lot: couldn't get any very low tenders, the ground being so
hard on account of the drought. Those trees are Five-Bob Downs--see, away
over against the range. But I suppose you know the places better than I
do."

We were now within an hour of our destination. How familiar were many
landmarks to me, although I had not seen them since I was eight years
old.

A river ran on our right, occasionally a glimmer of its noisy waters
visible through the shrubbery which profusely lined its banks. The short
evening was drawing to a close. The white mists brought by the rain were
crawling slowly down the hills, and settling in the hollows of the ranges
on our left. A V-shaped rift in them, known as Pheasant Gap, came into
view. Mr Hawden said it was well named, as it swarmed with lyrebirds.
Night was falling. The skreel of a hundred curlews arose from the
gullies--how I love their lonely wail!--and it was quite dark when we
pulled up before the front gate of Caddagat.

A score of dogs rushed yelping to meet us, the front door was thrown
open, lights and voices came streaming out.

I alighted from the buggy feeling rather nervous. I was a pauper with a
bad character. How would my grandmother receive me? Dear old soul, I had
nothing to fear. She folded me in a great warm-hearted hug, saying, "Dear
me, child, your face is cold. I'm glad you've come. It has been a
terrible day, but we're glad to have the rain. You must be frozen. Get in
to the fire, child, as fast as you can. Get in to the fire, get in to the
fire. I hope you forgive me for not going to meet you." And there was my
mother's only sister, my tall graceful aunt, standing beside her, giving
me a kiss and cordial hand-clasp, and saying, "Welcome, Sybylla. We will
be glad to have a young person to brighten up the old home once more. I
am sorry I was too unwell to meet you. You must be frozen; come to the
fire."


My aunt always spoke very little and very quietly, but there was
something in her high-bred style which went right home.

I could scarcely believe that they were addressing me. Surely they were
making a mistake. This reception was meant for some grand relative
honouring them with a visit, and not for the ugly, useless, had little
pauper come to live upon their bounty.

Their welcome did more than all the sermons I had ever heard put together
towards thawing a little of the pitiless cynicism which encrusted my
heart.

"Take the child inside, Helen, as fast as you can," said grannie, "while I
see that the boy attends to the horses. The plaguey fellow can't be
trusted any further than the length of his nose. I told him to tie up
these dogs, and here they are yelp-yelping fit to deafen a person."

I left my wet umbrella on the veranda, and aunt Helen led me into the
dining-room, where a spruce maid was making a pleasant clatter in laying
the table. Caddagat was a very old style of house, and all the front
rooms opened onto the veranda without any such preliminary as a hall,
therefore it was necessary to pass through the dining-room to my bedroom,
which was a skillion at the back. While auntie paused for a moment to
give some orders to the maid, I noticed the heavy silver serviette rings
I remembered so well, and the old-fashioned dinner-plates, and the big
fire roaring in the broad white fireplace; but more than all, the
beautiful pictures on the walls and a table in a corner strewn with
papers, magazines, and several very new-looking books. On the back of one
of these I saw "Corelli", and on another--great joy!--was _Trilby_. From
the adjoining apartment, which was the drawing-room, came the sweet full
tones of a beautiful piano. Here were three things for which I had been
starving. An impulse to revel in them immediately seized me. I felt like
clearing the table at a bound, seizing and beginning to read both books,
and rushing in to the piano and beginning to play upon it there and then,
and examine the pictures--all three things at once. Fortunately for the
reputation of my sanity, however, aunt Helen had by this time conducted
me to a pretty little bedroom, and saying it was to be mine, helped me to
doff my cape and hat.

While warming my fingers at the fire my eyes were arrested by a beautiful
portrait hanging above the mantelpiece. It represented a lovely girl in
the prime of youth and beauty, and attired in floating white dinner
draperies.

"Oh, aunt Helen! isn't she lovely? It's you, isn't it?"

"No. Do you not recognize it as your mother? It was taken just before her
marriage. I must leave you now, but come out as soon as you arrange
yourself--your grandmother will be anxious to see you."

When aunt Helen left me I plastered my hair down in an instant without
even a glance in the mirror. I took not a particle of interest in my
attire, and would go about dressed anyhow. This was one symptom which
inclined my mother to the belief of my possible insanity, as to most
young girls dress is a great delight. I had tried once or twice to make
myself look nice by dressing prettily, but, by my own judgment,
considering I looked as ugly as ever, I had given it up as a bad job.

The time which I should have spent in arranging my toilet passed in
gazing at my mother's portrait. It was one of the loveliest faces
imaginable. The features may not have been perfect according to rule of
thumb, but the expression was simply angelic--sweet, winning, gentle, and
happy. I turned from the contemplation of it to another photograph--one of
my father--in a silver frame on the dressing-table. This, too, was a fine
countenance, possessed of well-cut features and refined expression. This
was the prince who had won Lucy Bossier from her home. I looked around my
pretty bedroom--it had been my mother's in the days of her maidenhood. In
an exclusive city boarding-school, and amid the pleasant surroundings of
this home, her youth had been spent.

I thought of a man and his wife at Possum Gully. The man was blear-eyed,
disreputable in appearance, and failed to fulfil his duties as a father
and a citizen. The woman was work-roughened and temper-soured by endless
care and an unavailing struggle against poverty. Could that pair possibly
be identical with this?

This was life as proved by my parents! What right had I to expect any
better yield from it? I shut my eyes and shuddered at the possibilities
and probabilities of my future. It was for this that my mother had
yielded up her youth, freedom, strength; for this she had sacrificed the
greatest possession of woman.

Here I made my way to the dining-room, where grannie was waiting for me
and gave me another hug.

"Come here, child, and sit beside me near the fire; but first let me have
a look at you," and she held me at arm's length.

"Dear, oh, dear, what a little thing you are, and not a bit like any of
your relations! I am glad your skin is so nice and clear; all my children
had beautiful complexions. Goodness me, I never saw such hair! A plait
thicker than my arm and almost to your knees! It is that beautiful bright
brown like your aunt's. Your mother's was flaxen. I must see your hair
loose when you are going to bed. There is nothing I admire so much as a
beautiful head of hair."

The maid announced that dinner was ready, grannie vigorously rang a
little bell, aunt Helen, a lady, and a gentleman appeared from the
drawing-room, and Mr Hawden came in from the back. I discovered that the
lady and gentleman were a neighbouring squatter and a new governess he
was taking home. Grannie, seeing them pass that afternoon in the rain,
had gone out and prevailed upon them to spend the night at Caddagat.

Mr Hawden took no notice of me now, but showed off to the others for my
benefit. After dinner we had music and singing in the drawing-room. I was
enjoying it immensely, but grannie thought I had better go to bed, as I
had been travelling since about midnight last night. I was neither tired
nor sleepy, but knew it useless to protest, so bade every one good night
and marched off. Mr Hawden acknowledged my salute with great airs and
stiffness, and aunt Helen whispered that she would come and see me by and
by, if I was awake.

Grannie escorted me to my room, and examined my hair. I shook it out for
her inspection. It met with her approval in every way. She pronounced it
beautifully fine, silky, and wavy, and the most wonderful head of hair
she had seen out of a picture.

A noise arose somewhere out in the back premises. Grannie went out to
ascertain the cause of it and did not return to me, so I extinguished my
lamp and sat thinking in the glow of the firelight.

For the first time my thoughts reverted to my leave-taking from home. My
father had kissed me with no more warmth than if I had been leaving for
a day only; my mother had kissed me very coldly, saying shortly, "It is
to be hoped, Sybylla, that your behaviour to your grandmother will be an
improvement upon what it has ever been to me." Gertie was the only one
who had felt any sorrow at parting with me, and I knew that she was of
such a disposition that I would be forgotten in a day or two. They would
never miss me, for I had no place in their affections. True, I was an
undutiful child, and deserved none. I possessed no qualities that would
win either their pride or love, but my heart cried out in love for them.

Would Gertie miss me tonight, as I would have missed her had our
positions been reversed? Not she. Would my absence from the noisy
tea-table cause a blank? I feared not.

I thought of poor mother left toiling at home, and my heart grew heavy; I
failed to remember my father's faults, but thought of his great patience
with me in the years agone, and all my old-time love for him renewed
itself. Why, oh, why, would they not love me a little in return!
Certainly I had never striven to be lovable. But see the love some have
lavished upon them without striving for it! Why was I ugly and nasty and
miserable and useless--without a place in the world?


CHAPTER NINE


Aunt Helen's Recipe


"Dear me, Sybylla, not in bed yet, and tears, great big tears! Tell me
what is the cause of them."

It was aunt Helen's voice; she had entered and lit the lamp.

There was something beautifully sincere and real about aunt Helen. She
never fussed over any one or pretended to sympathize just to make out how
nice she was. She was real, and you felt that no matter what wild or
awful rubbish you talked to her it would never be retailed for any one's
amusement--and, better than all, she never lectured.

She sat down beside me, and I impulsively threw my arms around her neck
and sobbed forth my troubles in a string. How there was no good in the
world, no use for me there, no one loved me or ever could on account of
my hideousness.

She heard me to the end and then said quietly, "When you are fit to
listen I will talk to you."

I controlled myself instantly and waited expectantly. What would she say?
Surely not that tame old yarn anent this world being merely a place of
probation, wherein we were allowed time to fit ourselves for a beautiful
world to come. That old tune may be all very well for old codgers
tottering on the brink of the grave, but to young persons with youth and
romance and good health surging through their veins, it is most boresome.
Would she preach that it was flying in the face of providence to moan
about my appearance? it being one of the greatest blessings I had, as it
would save me from countless temptations to which pretty girls are born.
That was another piece of old croaking of the job's comforter order, of
which I was sick unto death, as I am sure there is not an ugly person in
the world who thinks her lack of beauty a blessing to her. I need not
have feared aunt Helen holding forth in that strain. She always said
something brave and comforting which made me ashamed of myself and my
selfish conceited egotism.

"I understand you, Sybylla," she said slowly and distinctly, "but you must
not be a coward. There is any amount of love and good in the world, but
you must search for it. Being misunderstood is one of the trials we all
must bear. I think that even the most common-minded person in the land
has inner thoughts and feelings which no one can share with him, and the
higher one's organization the more one must suffer in that respect. I am
acquainted with a great number of young girls, some of them good and
true, but you have a character containing more than any three of them put
together. With this power, if properly managed, you can gain the almost
universal love of your fellows. But you are wild and wayward, you must
curb and strain your spirit and bring it into subjection, else you will
be worse than a person with the emptiest of characters. You will find
that plain looks will not prevent you from gaining the _friendship_ love of
your fellows--the only real love there is. As for the hot fleeting passion
of the man for the maid, which is wrongfully designated love, I will not
tell you not to think of it, knowing that it is human nature to demand it
when arriving at a certain age; but take this comfort: it as frequently
passes by on the other side of those with well-chiselled features as
those with faces of plainer mould."

She turned her face away, sighed, and forgetful of my presence lapsed
into silence. I knew she was thinking of herself.

Love, not _friendship_ love, for anyone knowing her must give her love and
respect, but the other sort of love had passed her by.

Twelve years before I went to Caddagat, when Helen Bossier had been
eighteen and one of the most beautiful and lovable girls in Australia,
there had come to Caddagat on a visit a dashing colonel of the name of
Bell, in the enjoyment of a most extended furlough for the benefit of his
health. He married aunt Helen and took her to some part of America where
his regiment was stationed. I have heard them say she worshipped Colonel
Bell, but in less than a twelvemonth he tired of his lovely bride, and
becoming enamoured of another woman, he tried to obtain a divorce. On
account of his wife's spotless character he was unable to do this; he
therefore deserted her and openly lived with the other woman as his
mistress. This forced aunt Helen to return to Caddagat, and her mother
had induced her to sue for a judicial separation, which was easily
obtained.

When a woman is separated from her husband it is the religion of the
world at large to cast the whole blame on the wife. By reason of her
youth and purity Mrs Bell had not as much to suffer in this way as some
others. But, comparatively speaking, her life was wrecked. She had been
humiliated and outraged in the cruellest way by the man whom she loved
and trusted. He had turned her adrift, neither a wife, widow, nor maid,
and here she was, one of the most estimably lovable and noble women I
have ever met.

"Come, Sybylla," she said, starting up brightly, "I have a plan--will you
agree to it? Come and take one good long look at yourself in the glass,
then I will turn it to the wall, and you must promise me that for three
or four weeks you will not look in a mirror. I will put as many as I can
out of your way, and you must avoid the remainder. During this time I
will take you in hand, and you must follow my directions implicitly. Will
you agree? You will be surprised what a nice-looking little girl I will
make of you."

Of course I agreed. I took a long and critical survey of myself in the
glass. There was reflected a pair of hands, red and coarsened with rough
work, a round face, shiny and swollen with crying, and a small round
figure enshrouded in masses of hair falling in thick waves to within an
inch or two of the knees. A very ugly spectacle, I thought. Aunt Helen
turned the face of the large mirror flat against the wall, while I
remarked despondently, "you can make me only middling ugly, you must be a
magician."

"Come now, part of my recipe is that you must not think of yourself at
all. I'll take you in hand in the morning. I hope you will like your
room; I have arranged it on purpose to suit you. And now good night, and
happy dreams."

I awoke next morning in very fine spirits, and slithering out of my bed
with alacrity, revelled--literally wallowed--in the appointments of my
room. My poor old room at Possum Gully was lacking in barest necessaries.
We could not afford even a wash-hand basin and jug; Gertie, the boys, and
myself had to perform our morning ablutions in a leaky tin dish on a
stool outside the kitchen door, which on cold frosty mornings was a
pretty peppery performance: but this room contained everything dear to
the heart of girlhood. A lovely bed, pretty slippers, dainty white
China-matting and many soft skins on the floor, and in one corner a most
artistic toilet set, and a wash-stand liberally supplied with a great
variety of soap--some of it so exquisitely perfumed that I felt tempted to
taste it. There were pretty pictures on the walls, and on a commodious
dressing-table a big mirror and large hand-glasses, with their faces to
the wall at present. Hairpins, fancy combs, ribbons galore, and a pretty
work-basket greeted my sight, and with delight I swooped down upon the
most excruciatingly lovely little writing-desk. It was stuffed full with
all kinds of paper of good quality--fancy, all colours, sizes, and shapes,
plain, foreign note, pens, ink, and a generous supply of stamps. I felt
like writing a dozen letters there and then, and was on the point of
giving way to my inclination, when my attention was arrested by what I
considered the gem of the whole turn-out. I refer to a nice little
bookcase containing copies of all our Australian poets, and two or three
dozen novels which I had often longed to read. I read the first chapters
of four of them, and then lost myself in Gordon, and sat on my
dressing-table in my nightgown, regardless of cold, until brought to my
senses by the breakfast-bell. I made great pace, scrambled into my
clothes helter-skelter, and appeared at table when the others had been
seated and unfolded their serviettes.

Aunt Helen's treatment for making me presentable was the wearing of
gloves and a shady hat every time I went outside; and she insisted upon
me spending a proper time over my toilet, and would not allow me to
encroach upon it with the contents of my bookshelf.

"Rub off some of your gloomy pessimism and cultivate a little more
healthy girlish vanity, and you will do very well," she would say.

I observed these rites most religiously for three days. Then I contracted
a slight attack of influenza, and in poking around the kitchen, doing one
of the things I oughtn't at the time I shouldn't, a servant-girl tipped a
pot of boiling pot-liquor over my right foot, scalding it rather
severely. Aunt Helen and grannie put me to bed, where I yelled with pain
for hours like a mad Red Indian, despite their applying every alleviative
possible. The combined forces of the burn and influenza made me a trifle
dicky, so a decree went forth that I was to stay in bed until recovered
from both complaints. This effectually prevented me from running in the
way of any looking-glasses.

I was not sufficiently ill to be miserable, and being a pampered invalid
was therefore fine fun. Aunt Helen was a wonderful nurse. She dressed my
foot splendidly every morning, and put it in a comfortable position many
times throughout the day. Grannie brought me every dainty in the house,
and sent special messengers to Gool-Gool for more. Had I been a
professional glutton I would have been in paradise. Even Mr Hawden
condescended so far as to express his regret concerning the accident, and
favoured me with visits throughout each day; and one Sunday his gallantry
carried him to a gully where he plucked a bouquet of maidenhair fern--the
first of the season--and put them in a bowl beside my bed. My uncle
Julius, the only other member of the family besides the servants, was
away "up the country" on some business or another, and was not expected
home for a month or so.

The Bossiers and Beechams were leaders of swelldom among the squattocracy
up the country, and firm and intimate friends. The Beechams resided at
Five-Bob Downs, twelve miles from Caddagat, and were a family composed of
two maiden ladies and their nephew, Harold. One of these ladies was aunt
Helen's particular friend, and the other had stood in the same capacity
to my mother in days gone by, but of late years, on account of her
poverty, mother had been too proud to keep up communication with her. As
for Harold Beecham, he was nearly as much at home at Caddagat as at
Five-Bob Downs. He came and went with that pleasant familiarity practised
between congenial spirits among squatterdom. The Bossiers and Beechams
were congenial spirits in every way--they lived in the one sphere and held
the one set of ideas, the only difference between them, and that an
unnoticeable one, being that the Bossiers, though in comfortable
circumstances, were not at all rich, while Harold Beecham was immensely
wealthy. When my installation in the role of invalid took place, one Miss
Beecham was away in Melbourne, and the other not well enough to come and
see me, but Harold came regularly to inquire how I was progressing. He
always brought me a number of beautiful apples. This kindness was because
the Caddagat orchard had been too infested with codlin moth for grannie
to save any last season.

Aunt Helen used to mischievously tease me about this attention.

"Here comes Harry Beecham with some more apples," she would say. "No
doubt he is far more calculating and artful than I thought he was capable
of being. He is taking time by the forelock and wooing you ere he sees
you, and so will take the lead. Young ladies are in the minority up this
way, and every one is snapped up as soon as she arrives."

"You'd better tell him how ugly I am, auntie, so that he will carry
apples twelve miles on his own responsibility, and when he sees me won't
he vexed that all his work has been for nothing. Perhaps, though, it
would be better not to describe me, or I will get no more apples," I
would reply.


Aunt Helen was a clever needlewoman. She made all grannie's dresses and
her own. Now she was making some for me, which, however, I was not to see
until I wore them. Aunt Helen had this as a pleasant surprise, and went
to the trouble of blindfolding me while I was being fitted. While in bed,
grannie and auntie being busy, I was often left hours alone, and during
that time devoured the contents of my bookshelf.

The pleasure, so exquisite as to be almost pain, which I derived from the
books, and especially the Australian poets, is beyond description. In the
narrow peasant life of Possum Gully I had been deprived of companionship
with people of refinement and education who would talk of the things I
loved; but, at last here was congeniality, here was companionship.

The weird witchery of mighty bush, the breath of wide sunlit plains, the
sound of camp-bells and jingle of hobble chains, floating on the soft
twilight breezes, had come to these men and had written a tale on their
hearts as had been written on mine. The glory of the starlit heavens, the
mighty wonder of the sea, and the majesty of thunder had come home to
them, and the breathless fulness of the sunset hour had whispered of
something more than the humour of tomorrow's weather. The wind and rain
had a voice which spoke to Kendall, and he too had endured the misery of
lack of companionship. Gordon, with his sad, sad humanism and bitter
disappointment, held out his hand and took me with him. The regret of it
all was I could never meet them--Byron, Thackeray, Dickens, Longfellow,
Gordon, Kendall, the men I loved, all were dead; but, blissful thought!
Caine, Paterson, and Lawson were still living, breathing human beings--two
of them actually countrymen, fellow Australians!

I pored with renewed zeal over the terse realism and pathos of Lawson,
and enjoyed Paterson's redolence of the rollicking side of the wholesome
life beneath these sunny skies, which he depicted with grand touches of
power flashing here and there. I learnt them by heart, and in that
gloriously blue receptacle, by and by, where many pleasant youthful
dreams are stowed, I put the hope that one day I would clasp hands with
them, and feel and know the unspeakable comfort and heart-rest of
congenial companionship.


CHAPTER TEN


Everard Grey


Uncle Julius had taken a run down to Sydney before returning to Caddagat,
and was to be home during the first week in September, bringing with him
Everard Grey. This young gentleman always spent Christmas at Caddagat,
but as he had just recovered from an illness he was coming up for a
change now instead. Having heard much of him, I was curious to see him.
He was grandmamma's adopted son, and was the orphan of very aristocratic
English parents who had left him to the guardianship of distant
relatives. They had proved criminally unscrupulous. By finding a flaw in
deeds, or something which none but lawyers understand, they had deprived
him of all his property and left him to sink or swim. Grannie had
discovered, reared, and educated him. Among professions he had chosen the
bar, and was now one of Sydney's most promising young barristers. His
foster-mother was no end proud of him, and loved him as her own son.

In due time a telegram arrived from uncle Julius, containing instructions
for the buggy to be sent to Gool-Gool to meet him and Everard Grey.

By this time I had quite recovered from influenza and my accident, and as
they would not arrive till near nightfall, for their edification I was to
be dressed in full-blown dinner costume, also I was to be favoured with a
look at my reflection in a mirror for the first time since my arrival.

During the afternoon I was dispatched by grannie on a message some miles
away, and meeting Mr Hawden some distance from the house, he took it upon
himself to accompany me. Everywhere I went he followed after, much to my
annoyance, because grannie gave me many and serious talkings-to about the
crime of encouraging young men.

Frank Hawden had changed his tune, and told me now that it mattered not
that I was not pretty, as pretty or not I was the greatest brick of a
girl he had met. His idea for this opinion was that I was able to talk
theatres with him, and was the only girl there, and because he had
arrived at that overflowing age when young men have to be partial to some
female whether she be ugly or pretty, fat or lean, old or young. That I
should be the object of these puerile emotions in a fellow like Frank
Hawden, filled me with loathing and disgust.

It was late in the afternoon when Hawden and I returned, and the buggy
was to be seen a long way down the road, approaching at the
going-for-the-doctor pace at which uncle Julius always drove.

Aunt Helen hustled me off to dress, but I was only half-rigged when they
arrived, and so was unable to go out and meet them. Uncle Julius inquired
for that youngster of Lucy's, and aunt Helen replied that she would be
forthcoming when they were dressed for dinner. The two gentlemen took a
nip, to put a little heart in them uncle Julius said, and auntie Helen
came to finish my toilet while they were making theirs.

"There now, you have nothing to complain of in the way of looks," she
remarked at the completion of the ceremony. "Come and have a good look at
yourself."

I was decked in my first evening dress, as it was a great occasion. It
was only on the rarest occasion that we donned full war-paint at
Caddagat. I think that evening dress is one of the prettiest and most
idiotic customs extant. What can be more foolish than to endanger one's
health by exposing at night the chest and arms--two of the most vital
spots of the body--which have been covered all day? On the other hand,
what can be more beautiful than a soft white bosom rising and falling
amid a dainty nest of silk and lace? Every woman looks more soft and
feminine in a _decollete_ gown. And is there any of the animal lines known
pleasanter to the eye than the contour of shapely arms? Some there are
who cry down evening dress as being immodest and indecent. These will be
found among those whose chest and arms will not admit of being displayed,
or among those who, not having been reared to the custom, dislike it with
many other things from want of use.

Aunt Helen took me into the wide old drawing-room, now brilliantly
lighted. A heavy lamp was on each of the four brackets in the corners,
and another swung from the centre of the ceiling, and candelabra threw
many lights from the piano. Never before had I seen this room in such a
blaze of light. During the last week or two aunt Helen and I had occupied
it every night, but we never lighted more than a single candle on the
piano. This had been ample light for our purpose. Aunt Helen would sing
in her sweet sad voice all the beautiful old songs I loved, while I
curled myself on a mat at her side and read books--the music often
compelling me to forget the reading, and the reading occasionally
rendering me deaf to the music; but through both ever came the solemn
rush of the stream outside in its weird melancholy, like a wind
ceaselessly endeavouring to outstrip a wild vain regret which
relentlessly pursued.

"Your uncle Julius always has the drawing-room lighted like this; he does
not believe in shadowy half light--calls it sentimental bosh," said aunt
Helen in explanation.

"Is uncle like that?" I remarked, but my question remained unanswered.
Leaving a hand-mirror with me, aunt Helen had slipped away.

One wall of the drawing-room was monopolized by a door, a big bookcase,
and a heavy bevelled-edged old-fashioned mirror--the two last-mentioned
articles reaching from floor to ceiling. Since my arrival the face of the
mirror had been covered, but this evening the blue silken curtains were
looped up, and it was before this that I stood.

I looked, and looked again in pleased surprise. I beheld a young girl
with eyes and skin of the clearest and brightest, and lips of brilliant
scarlet, and a chest and pair of arms which would pass muster with the
best. If Nature had been in bad humour when moulding my face, she had
used her tools craftily in forming my figure. Aunt Helen had proved a
clever maid and dressmaker. My pale blue cashmere dress fitted my fully
developed yet girlish figure to perfection. Some of my hair fell in
cunning little curls on my forehead; the remainder, tied simply with a
piece of ribbon, hung in thick waves nearly to my knees. My toilet had
altered me almost beyond recognition. It made me look my age--sixteen
years and ten months--whereas before, when dressed carelessly and with my
hair plastered in a tight coil, people not knowing me would not believe
that I was under twenty. Joy and merriment lit up my face, which glowed
with youth, health, and happiness, which rippled my lips in smiles, which
displayed a splendid set of teeth, and I really believe that on that
night I did not look out of the way ugly.

I was still admiring my reflection when aunt Helen returned to say that
Everard and uncle Julius were smoking on the veranda and asking for me.

"What do you think of yourself, Sybylla?"

"Oh, aunt Helen, tell me that there is something about me not completely
hideous!"

She took my face between her hands, saying:

"Silly child, there are some faces with faultless features, which would
receive nothing more than an indifferent glance while beside other faces
which might have few if any pretensions to beauty. Yours is one of those
last mentioned."

"But that does not say I am not ugly."

"No one would dream of calling you plain, let alone ugly; brilliant is
the word which best describes you."

Uncle Julius had the upper part of his ponderous figure arrayed in a
frock-coat. He did not take kindly to what he termed "those skittish
sparrow-tailed affairs". Frock-coats suited him, but I am not partial to
them on every one. They look well enough on a podgy, fat, or broad man,
but on a skinny one they hang with such a forlorn, dying-duck expression,
that they invariably make me laugh.

Julius John Bossier, better known as J. J. Bossier, and better still as
Jay-Jay--big, fat, burly, broad, a jovial bachelor of forty, too fond of
all the opposite sex ever to have settled his affections on one in
particular--was well known, respected, and liked from Wagga Wagga to
Albury, Forbes to Dandaloo, Bourke to Hay, from Tumut to Monaro, and back
again to Peak Hill, as a generous man, a straight goer in business
matters, and a jolly good fellow all round.

I was very proud to call him uncle.

"So this is yourself, is it!" he exclaimed, giving me a tremendous hug.

"Oh, uncle," I expostulated, ?? wipe your old kisses off Your breath
smells horribly of whisky and tobacco."

"Gammon, that's what makes my kisses so nice!" he answered; and, after
holding me at arm's-length for inspection, "By George, you're a
wonderful-looking girl! You're surely not done growing yet, though! You
are such a little nipper. I could put you in my pocket with ease. You
aren't a scrap like your mother. I'll give the next shearer who passes a
shilling to cut that hair off. It would kill a dog in the hot weather."

"Everard, this is my niece, Sybylla" (aunt Helen was introducing us).
"You will have to arrange yourselves--what relation you are, and how to
address each other."

The admiration expressed in his clear sharp eyes gave me a sensation
different to any I had ever experienced previously.

"I suppose I'm a kind of uncle and brother in one, and as either
relationship entitles me to a kiss, I'm going to take one," he said in a
very gallant manner.

"You may take one if you can," I said with mischievous defiance,
springing off the veranda into the flower-garden. He accepted my
challenge, and, being lithe as a cat, a tremendous scamper ensued. Round
and round the flower-beds we ran. Uncle Jay-Jay's beard opened in a broad
smile, which ended in a loud laugh. Everard Grey's coat-tails flew in the
breeze he made, and his collar was too high for athletic purposes. I
laughed too, and was lost, and we returned to the veranda--Everard in
triumph, and I feeling very red and uncomfortable.

Grannie had arrived upon the scene, looking the essence of brisk
respectability in a black silk gown and a white lace cap. She cast on me
a glance of severe disapproval, and denounced my conduct as shameful; but
uncle Jay-Jay's eyes twinkled as he dexterously turned the subject.

"Gammon, mother! I bet you were often kissed when that youngster's age. I
bet my boots now that you can't count the times you did the same thing
yourself. Now, confess."

Grannie's face melted in a smile as she commenced a little anecdote, with
that pathetic beginning, "When I was young."

Aunt Helen sent me inside lest I should catch cold, and I stationed
myself immediately inside the window so that I should not miss the
conversation. "I should think your niece is very excitable," Mr Grey was
saying to aunt Helen.

"Oh, very."

"Yes; I have never seen any but very highly strung temperaments have that
transparent brilliance of expression."

"She is very variable--one moment all joy, and the next the reverse."

"She has a very striking face. I don't know what it is that makes it so."

"It may be her complexion," said aunt Helen; "her skin is whiter than the
fairest blonde, and her eyebrows and lashes very dark. Be very careful
you do not say anything that would let her know you think her not nice
looking. She broods over her appearance in such a morbid manner. It is a
weak point with her, so be careful not to sting her sensitiveness in that
respect."

"Plain-looking! Why, I think she has one of the most fascinating faces
I've seen for some time, and her eyes are simply magnificent. What colour
are they?"

"The grass is not bad about Sydney. I think I will send a truck Of fat
wethers away next week," said uncle Jay-Jay to grannie.

"It is getting quite dark. Let's get in to dinner at once," said grannie.

During the meal I took an opportunity of studying the appearance of
Everard Grey. He had a typically aristocratic English face, even to the
cold rather heartless expression, which is as established a point of an
English blue blood as an arched neck is of a thoroughbred horse.

A ringer, whose wife had been unexpectedly confined, came for grannie
when dinner was over, and the rest of us had a delightful musical
evening. Uncle Jay-Jay bawled "The Vicar of Bray" and "Drink, Puppy,
Drink" in a stentorian bass voice, holding me on his knee, pinching,
tickling, pulling my hair, and shaking me up and down between whiles. Mr
Hawden favoured us by rendering "The Holy City". Everard Grey sang
several new songs, which was a great treat, as he had a well-trained and
musical baritone voice. He was a veritable carpet knight, and though not
a fop, was exquisitely dressed in full evening costume, and showed his
long pedigreed blood in every line of his clean-shaven face and tall
slight figure. He was quite a champion on the piano, and played aunt
Helen's accompaniments while he made her sing song after song. When she
was weary uncle Jay-Jay said to me, "Now it's your turn, me fine lady.
We've all done something to keep things rolling but you. Can you sing?"

"No,"

"Can this youngster sing, Helen?"

"She sings very nicely to herself sometimes, but I do not know how she
would manage before company. Will you try something, Sybylla?"

Uncle Jay-Jay waited to hear no more, but carrying me to the music-stool,
and depositing me thereon, warned me not to attempt to leave it before
singing something.

To get away to myself, where I was sure no one could bear me, and sing
and sing till I made the echoes ring, was one of the chief joys of my
existence, but I had never made a success in singing to company. Besides
losing all nerve, I had a very queer voice, which every one remarked.
However, tonight I made an effort in my old favourite, "Three Fishers
Went Sailing". The beauty of the full-toned Ronisch piano, and Everard's
clever and sympathetic accompanying, caused me to forget my audience, and
sing as though to myself alone, forgetting that my voice was odd.

When the song ceased Mr Grey wheeled abruptly on the stool and said, "Do
you know that you have one of the most wonderful natural voices I have
heard. Why, there is a fortune in such a voice if it were, trained! Such
chest-notes, such feeling, such rarity of tone!"

"Don't be sarcastic, Mr Grey," I said shortly.

"Upon my word as a man, I mean every word I say," he returned
enthusiastically.

Everard Grey's opinion on artistic matters was considered worth having.
He dabbled in all the arts--writing, music, acting, and sketching, and
went to every good concert and play in Sydney. Though he was clever at
law, it was whispered by some that he would wind up on the stage, as he
had a great leaning that way.

I walked away from the piano treading on air. Would I really make a
singer? I with the voice which had often been ridiculed; I who had often
blasphemously said that I would sell my soul to be able to sing just
passably. Everard Grey's opinion gave me an intoxicated sensation of joy.

"Can you recite?" he inquired.

"Yes," I answered firmly.

"Give us something," said uncle Jay-Jay.

I recited Longfellow's "The Slave's Dream". Everard Grey was quite as
enthusiastic over this as he had been about my singing.

"Such a voice! Such depth and width! Why, she could fill the Centennial
Hall without an effort. All she requires is training."

"By George, she's a regular dab! But I wish she would give us something
not quite so glum," said uncle Jay-Jay.

I let myself go. Carried away by I don't know what sort of a spirit, I
exclaimed, "Very well, I will, if you will wait till I make up, and will
help me."

I disappeared for a few minutes, and returned made up as a fat old Irish
woman, with a smudge of dirt on my face. There was a general laugh.

Would Mr Hawden assist me? Of course he was only too delighted, and
flattered that I had called upon him in preference to the others. What
would he do?

I sat him on a footstool, so that I might with facility put my hand on
his sandy hair, and turning to uncle, commenced:

"Shure, sir, seeing it was a good bhoy yez were afther to run errants,
it's meself that has brought this youngsther for yer inspection. It's a
jool ye'll have in him. Shure I rared him meself, and he says his prayers
every morning. Kape sthill, honey! Faith, ye're not afraid of yer poor
old mammy pullin' yer beautiful cur-r-rls?"

Uncle Jay-Jay was laughing like fun; even aunt Helen deigned to smile;
and Everard was looking on with critical interest.

"Go on," said uncle. But Mr Hawden got huffy at the ridicule which he
suspected I was calling down upon him, and jumped up looking fit to eat
me.

I acted several more impromptu scenes with the other occupants of the
drawing-room. Mr Hawden emitted "Humph!" from the corner where he
grumpily sat, but Mr Grey was full of praise.

"Splendid! splendid!" he exclaimed. "You say you have not had an hour's
training, and never saw a play. Such versatility. Your fortune would be
made on the stage. It is a sin to have such exceptional talent wasting in
the bush. I must take her to Sydney and put her under a good master."

"Indeed, you'll do no such thing," said uncle. "I'll keep her here to
liven up the old barracks. You've got enough puppets on the stage without
a niece of mine ever being there."

I went to bed that night greatly elated. Flattery is sweet to youth. I
felt pleased with myself, and imagined, as I peeped in the looking-glass,
that I was not half bad-looking after all.


CHAPTER ELEVEN


Yah!


"Bah, you hideous animal! Ha ha! Your peerless conceit does you credit.
So you actually imagined that by one or two out of every hundred you
might he considered passable. You are the most uninteresting person in
the world. You are small and nasty and bad, and every other thing that's
abominable. That's what you are."

This address I delivered to my reflection in the glass next morning. My
elation of the previous night was as flat as a pancake. Dear, oh dear,
what a fool I had been to softly swallow the flattery of Mr Grey without
a single snub in return! To make up for my laxity, if he continued to
amuse himself by plastering my vanity with the ointment of flattery, I
determined to serve up my replies to him red-hot and well seasoned with
pepper.

I finished my toilet, and in a very what's-the-good-o'-anything mood took
a last glance in the glass to say, "You're ugly, you're ugly and useless;
so don't forget that and make a fool of yourself again."

I was in the habit of doing this; it had long ago taken the place of a
morning prayer. I said this, that by familiarity it might lose a little
of its sting when I heard it from other lips, but somehow it failed in
efficacy.

I was late for breakfast that morning. All the others were half through
the meal when I sat down.

Grannie had not come home till after twelve, but was looking as brisk as
usual.

"Come, Sybylla, I suppose this comes of sitting up too late, as I was not
here to hunt you to bed. You are always very lively at night, but it's a
different tune in the morning," she said, when giving me the usual
morning hug.

"When I was a nipper of your age, if I didn't turn out like greased
lightning every morning, I was assisted by a little strap oil," remarked
uncle Jay-Jay.

"Sybylla should be excused this morning," interposed Mr Grey. "She
entertained us for hours last night. Little wonder if she feels languid
this morning."

"Entertained you I What did she do?" queried grannie.

"Many things. Do you know, gran, that you are robbing the world of an
artist by keeping Sybylla hidden away in the bush? I must persuade you to
let me take her to Sydney and have her put under the best masters in
Sydney."

"Under masters for what?"

"Elocution and singing."

"I couldn't afford it."

"But I'd bear the expense myself. It would only be returning a trifle of
all you have done for me."

"What nonsense! What would you have her do when she was taught?"

"Go on the stage, of course. With her talent and hair she would cause
quite a sensation."

Now grannie's notions re the stage were very tightly laced. All actors
and actresses, from the lowest circus man up to the most glorious
cantatrice, were people defiled in the sight of God, and utterly outside
the pale of all respectability, when measured with her code of morals.

She turned energetically in her chair, and her keen eyes flashed with
scorn and anger as she spoke.

"Go on the stage! A grand-daughter of mine! Lucy's eldest child! An
actress--a vile, low, brazen hussy! Use the gifts God has given her with
which to do good in showing off to a crowd of vile bad men! I would
rather see her struck dead at my feet this instant! I would rather see
her shear off her hair and enter a convent this very hour. Child, promise
you will never be a bold bad actress."

"I will never be a _bold bad_ actress, grannie," I said, putting great
stress on the adjectives, and bringing out the actress very faintly.

"Yes," she continued, calming down, "I'm sure you have not enough bad in
you. You may he boisterous, and not behave with sufficient propriety
sometimes, but I don't think you are wicked enough to ever make an
actress."

Everard attempted to defend his case.

"Look here, gran, that's a very exploded old notion about the stage being
a low profession. It might have been once, but it is quite the reverse
nowadays. There are, of course, low people on the stage, as there are in
all walks of life. I grant you that; but if people are good they can be
good on the stage as well as anywhere else. On account of a little
prejudice it would be a sin to rob Sybylla of the brilliant career she
might have."

"Career!" exclaimed his foster-mother, catching at the word. "Career!
That is all girls think of now, instead of being good wives and mothers
and attending to their homes and doing what God intended. rang out in
trumpet-like tones.

Attention was turned toward the young advocate, who, standing on a branch,
began tearing to pieces a roll of paper; then he cried:

"Yes, I tear and scatter to the winds the defence I had prepared
for the accused.

They have suppressed discussion; I am not allowed to speak for him. I can
only speak to you, people; I rejoice that I can do so. You heard these
infamous judges. Which of them can hear the truth? Which of them is
worthy to listen to an honest man?

Which of them will dare to meet his gaze? But what do I say? They all
know the truth.

They carry it in their guilty breasts; it stings their hearts like a serpent.
They tremble in their lair, where doubtless they are devouring their
victim; they tremble because they have heard the cries of three deluded
women.
What was I about to do?

I was about to speak in behalf of Urbain Grandier!

But what eloquence could equal that of those unfortunates? What words could
better have shown you his innocence?

Heaven has taken up arms for him in bringing them to repentance and to
devotion; Heaven will finish its work--"

"Vade retro, Satanas," was heard through a high window in the hall.

Fournier stopped for a moment, then said:

"You hear these voices parodying the divine language? If I mistake not,
these instruments of an infernal power are, by this song, preparing some
new spell."
"But," cried those who surrounded him, "what shall we do? What have
they done with him?"
"Remain here; be immovable, be silent," replied the young advocate. "The
inertia of a people is all-powerful; that is its true wisdom, that
its strength.

Observe them closely, and in silence; and you will make them tremble."

"They surely will not dare to appear here again," said the Comte du Lude.

"I should like to look once more at the tall scoundrel in red,"
said Grand-Ferre, who had lost nothing of what had occurred.

"And that good gentleman, the Cure," murmured old Father Guillaume Leroux,
looking at all his indignant parishioners, who were talking together
in a low tone, measuring and counting the archers, ridiculing their dress,
and beginning to point them out to the observation of the other
spectators.

Cinq-Mars, still leaning against the pillar behind which he had first placed
himself, still wrapped in his black cloak, eagerly watched all that passed,
lost not a word of what was said, and filled his heart with hate and
bitterness. Violent desires for slaughter and revenge, a vague desire to
strike, took possession of him, despite himself; this is the first
impression which evil produces on the soul of a young man.

Later, sadness takes the place of fury, then indifference and scorn, later
still, a calculating admiration for great villains who have been successful;
but this is only when, of the two elements which constitute man, earth
triumphs over spirit.

Meanwhile, on the right of the hall near the judges' platform, a group
of women were watching attentively a child about eight years old, who
had taken it into his head to climb up to a cornice by the aid of his
sister Martine, whom we have seen the subject of jest with the young
soldier, Grand-Ferre. The child, having nothing to look at after
the court had left the hall, had climbed to a small window which admitted
a faint light, and which he imagined to contain a swallow's nest or some
other treasure for a boy; but after he was well established on the
cornice, his hands grasping the bars of an old shrine of Jerome,
he wished himself anywhere else, and cried out:
"Oh, sister, sister, lend me your hand to get down!"

"What do you see there?" asked Martine.

"Oh, I dare not tell; but I want to get down," and he began to
cry.

"Stay there, my child; stay there!" said all the women. "Don't be afraid;
tell us all that you see."
"Well, then, they've put the Cure between two great boards that squeeze
his legs, and there are cords round the boards."
"Ah! that is the rack," said one of the townsmen. "Look again, my
little friend, what do you see now?"
The child, more confident, looked again through the window, and then,
withdrawing his head, said:

"I can not see the Cure now, because all the judges stand round
him, and are looking at him, and their great robes prevent me
from seeing. There are also some Capuchins, stooping down to whisper
to him."
Curiosity attracted more people to the boy's perch; every one was
silent, waiting anxiously to catch his words, as if their lives
depended on them.

"I see," he went on, "the executioner driving four little pieces of wood
between the cords, after the Capuchins have blessed the hammer and
nails.

Ah, heavens! Sister, how enraged they seem with him, because he will
not speak. Mother! mother! give me your hand, I want to come down!"

Instead of his mother, the child, upon turning round, saw only men's
faces, looking up at him with a mournful eagerness, and signing him to
go on. He dared not descend, and looked again through the window,
trembling.

"Oh!

I see Father Lactantius and Father Barre themselves forcing in more
pieces of wood, which squeeze his legs.

Oh, how pale he is! he seems praying.

There, his head falls back, as if he were dying! Oh, take me away!"
And he fell into the arms of the young Advocate, of M. du Lude, and
of Cinq-Mars, who had come to support him.

"Deus stetit in synagoga deorum: in medio autem Deus dijudicat--" chanted
strong, nasal voices, issuing from the small window, which continued
in full chorus one of the psalms, interrupted by blows of the
hammer--an infernal deed beating time to celestial songs.

One might have supposed himself near a smithy, except that the blows
were dull, and manifested to the ear that the anvil was a man's body.

"Silence!" said Fournier, "He speaks.

The chanting and the blows stop."

A weak voice within said, with difficulty, "Oh, my fathers, mitigate the
rigor of your torments, for you will reduce my soul to despair, and I might
seek to destroy myself!"
At this the fury of the people burst forth like an explosion, echoing
along the vaulted roofs; the men sprang fiercely upon the platform,
thrust aside the surprised and hesitating archers; the unarmed crowd
drove them back, pressed them, almost suffocated them against the
walls, and held them fast, then dashed against the doors which led
to the torture chamber, and, making them shake beneath their blows,
threatened to drive them in; imprecations resounded from a thousand
menacing voices and terrified the judges within.

"They are gone; they have taken him away!" cried a man who had climbed to
the little window.

The multitude at once stopped short, and changing the direction of their
steps, fled from this detestable place and spread rapidly through the
streets, where an extraordinary confusion prevailed.

Night had come on during the long sitting, and the rain was pouring
in torrents.

The darkness was terrifying. The cries of women slipping on the pavement
or driven back by the horses of the guards; the shouts of the
furious men; the ceaseless tolling of the bells which had been
keeping time with the strokes of the question; the roll of distant
thunder--all combined to increase the disorder.

[Torture ('Question') was regulated in scrupulous detail by Holy Mother
The Church: The ordinary question was regulated for minor infractions
and used for interrogating women and children. For more serious crimes the
suspect (and sometimes the witnesses) were put to the extraordinary
question by the officiating priests. D.W.]
If the ear was astonished, the eyes were no less so.

A few dismal torches lighted up the corners of the streets; their
flickering gleams showed soldiers, armed and mounted, dashing along,
regardless of the crowd, to assemble in the Place de St. Pierre; tiles
were sometimes thrown at them on their way, but, missing the distant
culprit, fell upon some unoffending neighbor. The confusion was bewildering,
and became still more so, when, hurrying through all the streets toward
the Place de St.

Pierre, the people found it barricaded on all sides, and filled with
mounted guards and archers.

Carts, fastened to the posts at each corner, closed each entrance, and
sentinels, armed with arquebuses, were stationed close to the carts.

In the centre of the Place rose a pile composed of enormous beams placed
crosswise upon one another, so as to form a perfect square; these were
covered with a whiter and lighter wood; an enormous stake arose
from the centre of the scaffold.

A man clothed in red and holding a lowered torch stood near this sort of
mast, which was visible from a long distance. A huge chafing-dish,
covered on account of the rain, was at his feet.

At this spectacle, terror inspired everywhere a profound silence;
for an instant nothing was heard but the sound of the rain, which
fell in floods, and of the thunder, which came nearer and nearer.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, accompanied by MM. du Lude and Fournier and all the
more important personages of the town, had sought refuge from the
storm under the peristyle of the church of Ste.

-Croix, raised upon twenty stone steps. The pile was in front, and from
this height they could see the whole of the square. The centre was
entirely clear, large streams of water alone traversed it; but
all the windows of the houses were gradually lighted up, and showed
the heads of the men and women who thronged them.

The young D'Effiat sorrowfully contemplated this menacing
preparation.

Brought up in sentiments of honor, and far removed from the black
thoughts which hatred and ambition arouse in the heart of man, he
could not conceive that such wrong could be done without some
powerful and secret motive.

The audacity of such a condemnation seemed to him so enormous that its
very cruelty began to justify it in his eyes; a secret horror crept
into his soul, the same that silenced the people.

He almost forgot the interest with which the unhappy Urbain had inspired
him, in thinking whether it were not possible that some secret
correspondence with the infernal powers had justly provoked such
excessive severity; and the public revelations of the nuns, and the
statement of his respected tutor, faded from his memory, so powerful
is success, even in the eyes of superior men!

so strongly does force impose upon men, despite the voice of conscience!

The young traveller was asking himself whether it were not probable
that the torture had forced some monstrous confession from the
accused, when the obscurity which surrounded the church suddenly
ceased.

Its two great doors were thrown open; and by the light of an infinite
number of flambeaux, appeared all the judges and ecclesiastics,
surrounded by guards.

Among them was Urbain, supported, or rather carried, by six men
clothed as Black Penitents--for his limbs, bound with bandages
saturated with blood, seemed broken and incapable of supporting him.

It was at most two hours since Cinq-Mars had seen him, and yet he
could hardly recognize the face he had so closely observed at the
trial.

All color, all roundness of form had disappeared from it; a livid
pallor covered a skin yellow and shining like ivory; the blood
seemed to have left his veins; all the life that remained within
him shone from his dark eyes, which appeared to have grown twice
as large as before, as he looked languidly around him; his long,
chestnut hair hung loosely down his neck and over a white shirt,
which entirely covered him--or rather a sort of robe with large
sleeves, and of a yellowish tint, with an odor of sulphur about it;
a long, thick cord encircled his neck and fell upon his breast.

He looked like an apparition; but it was the apparition of a martyr.

Urbain stopped, or, rather, was set down upon the peristyle of the
church; the Capuchin Lactantius placed a lighted torch in his right
hand, and held it there, as he said to him, with his hard
inflexibility:
"Do penance, and ask pardon of God for thy crime of magic."

The unhappy man raised his voice with great difficulty, and with his eyes
to heaven said:

"In the name of the living God, I cite thee, Laubardemont, false
judge, to appear before Him in three years.

They have taken away my confessor, and I have been fain to pour out my
sins into the bosom of God Himself, for my enemies surround me.

I call that God of mercy to witness I never have dealt in magic.

I have known no mysteries but those of the Catholic religion,
apostolic and Roman, in which I die; I have sinned much against
myself, but never against God and our Lord--" 
"Cease!"

cried the Capuchin, affecting to close his mouth ere he could
pronounce the name of the Saviour.

"Obdurate wretch, return to the demon who sent thee!"

He signed to four priests, who, approaching with sprinklers in their
hands, exorcised with holy water the air the magician breathed, the earth
he touched, the wood that was to burn him.

During this ceremony, the judge-Advocate hastily read the decree, dated the
18th of August, 1639, declaring Urbain Grandier duly attainted and
convicted of the crime of sorcery, witchcraft, and possession, in
the persons of sundry Ursuline nuns of Loudun, and others, laymen,
etc.

The reader, dazzled by a flash of lightning, stopped for an instant, and,
turning to M. de Laubardemont, asked whether, considering the awful
weather, the execution could not be deferred till the next day.

"The decree," coldly answered Laubardemont, "commands execution within
twenty-four hours. Fear not the incredulous people; they will soon be
convinced."
All the most important persons of the town and many strangers
were under the peristyle, and now advanced, Cinq-Mars among them.

"The magician never has been able to pronounce the name of the Saviour, and
repels his image."
Lactantius at this moment issued from the midst of the Penitents, with
an enormous iron crucifix in his hand, which he seemed to hold
with precaution and respect; he extended it to the lips of the
sufferer, who indeed threw back his head, and collecting all his
strength, made a gesture with his arm, which threw the cross from
the hands of the Capuchin.

"You see," cried the latter, "he has thrown down the cross!"
A murmur arose, the meaning of which was doubtful.

"Profanation!" cried the priests.

The procession moved toward the pile.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, gliding behind a pillar, had eagerly watched
all that passed; he saw with astonishment that the cross, in falling
upon the steps, which were more exposed to the rain than the platform,
smoked and made a noise like molten lead when thrown into water. While
the public attention was elsewhere engaged, he advanced and touched
it lightly with his bare hand, which was immediately scorched. Seized with
indignation, with all the fury of a true heart, he took up the
cross with the folds of his cloak, stepped up to Laubardemont, and,
striking him with it on the forehead, cried:
"Villain, I brand thee with the mark of this red-hot iron!"

The crowd heard these words and rushed forward.

"Arrest this madman!" cried the unworthy magistrate.

He was himself seized by the hands of men who cried, "Justice! justice,
in the name of the King!"
"We are lost!" said Lactantius; "to the pile, to the pile!"
The Penitents dragged Urbain toward the Place, while the judges and
archers reentered the church, struggling with the furious citizens;
the executioner, having no time to tie up the victim, hastened to
lay him on the wood, and to set fire to it.

But the rain still fell in torrents, and each piece of wood had no
sooner caught the flame than it became extinguished.

In vain did Lactantius and the other canons themselves seek to stir up the
fire; nothing could overcome the water which fell from heaven.

Meanwhile, the tumult which had begun in the peristyle of the church
extended throughout the square.

The cry of "Justice!"

was repeated and circulated, with the information of what had been
discovered; two barricades were forced, and despite three volleys
of musketry, the archers were gradually driven back toward the
centre of the square.

In vain they spurred their horses against the crowd; it overwhelmed them
with its swelling waves. Half an hour passed in this struggle, the guards
still receding toward the pile, which they concealed as they pressed
closer upon it.

"On! on!" cried a man; "we will deliver him; do not strike the
soldiers, but let them fall back.

See, Heaven will not permit him to die! The fire is out; now, friend, one
effort more! That is well! Throw down that horse! Forward! On!"
The guard was broken and dispersed on all sides.

The crowd rushed to the pile, but no more light was there: all had
disappeared, even the executioner. They tore up and threw aside
the beams; one of them was still burning, and its light showed under a
mass of ashes and ensanguined mire a blackened hand, preserved from the
fire by a large iron bracelet and chain. A woman had the courage to open
it; the fingers clasped a small ivory cross and an image of St.

Magdalen.

"These are his remains," she said, weeping.

"Say, the relics of a martyr!" exclaimed a citizen, baring his
head.

CHAPTER VI
THE DREAM
Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, amid the excitement which his outbreak had
provoked, felt his left arm seized by a hand as hard as iron, which,
drawing him from the crowd to the foot of the steps, pushed him
behind the wall of the church, and he then saw the dark face of old
Grandchamp, who said to him in a sharp voice:
"Sir, your attack upon thirty musketeers in a wood at Chaumont was
nothing, because we were near you, though you knew it not, and,
moreover, you had to do with men of honor; but here 'tis different.

Your horses and people are at the end of the street; I request you
to mount and leave the town, or to send me back to Madame la Marechale,
for I am responsible for your limbs, which you expose so freely."

Cinq-Mars was somewhat astonished at this rough mode of having a
service done him, was not sorry to extricate himself thus from the affair,
having had time to reflect how very awkward it might be for him to be
recognized, after striking the head of the judicial authority, the
agent of the very Cardinal who was to present him to the King.

He observed also that around him was assembled a crowd of the lowest class
of people, among whom he blushed to find himself. He therefore followed
his old domestic without argument, and found the other three servants
waiting for him.

Despite the rain and wind he mounted, and was soon upon the
highroad with his escort, having put his horse to a gallop to avoid
pursuit.

He had, however, hardly left Loudun when the sandy road, furrowed by
deep ruts completely filled with water, obliged him to slacken his
pace.

The rain continued to fall heavily, and his cloak was almost
saturated.

He felt a thicker one thrown over his shoulders; it was his old valet,
who had approached him, and thus exhibited toward him a maternal
solicitude.

"Well, Grandchamp," said Cinq-Mars, "now that we are clear of the
riot, tell me how you came to be there when I had ordered you to
remain at the Abbe's."

"Parbleu, Monsieur!"

answered the old servant, in a grumbling tone, "do you suppose that
I should obey you any more than I did Monsieur le Marechal?

When my late master, after telling me to remain in his tent, found me
behind him in the cannon's smoke, he made no complaint, because he had
a fresh horse ready when his own was killed, and he only scolded me for
a moment in his thoughts; but, truly, during the forty years I served him,
I never saw him act as you have in the fortnight I have been with you.
Ah!" he added with a sigh, "things are going strangely; and if we
continue thus, there's no knowing what will be the end of it."
"But knowest thou, Grandchamp, that these scoundrels had made the
crucifix red hot?

--a thing at which no honest man would have been less enraged than I."

"Except Monsieur le Marechal, your father, who would not have done at all
what you have done, Monsieur."
"What, then, would he have done?"
"He would very quietly have let this cure be burned by the other cures,
and would have said to me, 'Grandchamp, see that my horses have oats,
and let no one steal them'; or, 'Grandchamp, take care that the rain
does not rust my sword or wet the priming of my pistols'; for Monsieur le
Marechal thought of everything, and never interfered in what did
not concern him.

That was his great principle; and as he was, thank Heaven, alike good
soldier and good general, he was always as careful of his arms as a recruit,
and would not have stood up against thirty young gallants with a dress
rapier."
Cinq-Mars felt the force of the worthy servitor's epigrammatic scolding,
and feared that he had followed him beyond the wood of Chaumont; but he
would not ask, lest he should have to give explanations or to tell
a falsehood or to command silence, which would at once have been
taking him into confidence on the subject.

As the only alternative, he spurred his horse and rode ahead of his
old domestic; but the latter had not yet had his say, and instead of
keeping behind his master, he rode up to his left and continued the
conversation.

"Do you suppose, Monsieur, that I should allow you to go where you
please? No, Monsieur, I am too deeply impressed with the respect I owe to
Madame la Marquise, to give her an opportunity of saying to
me:
'Grandchamp, my son has been killed with a shot or with a sword;
why were you not before him?'

Or, 'He has received a stab from the stiletto of an Italian, because he
went at night beneath the window of a great princess; why did you
not seize the assassin?'

This would be very disagreeable to me, Monsieur, for I never have been
reproached with anything of the kind.
Once Monsieur le Marechal lent me to his nephew, Monsieur le Comte,
to make a campaign in the Netherlands, because I know Spanish.

I fulfilled the duty with honor, as I always do. When Monsieur le Comte
received a bullet in his heart, I myself brought back his horses, his
mules, his tent, and all his equipment, without so much as a pocket-handkerchief
being missed; and I can assure you that the horses were as well dressed
and harnessed when we reentered Chaumont as if Monsieur le Comte
had been about to go a-hunting.

And, accordingly, I received nothing but compliments and agreeable
things from the whole family, just in the way I like."

"Well, well, my friend," said Henri d'Effiat, "I may some day,
perhaps, have these horses to take back; but in the mean time take
this great purse of gold, which I have well-nigh lost two or three
times, and thou shalt pay for me everywhere.

The money wearies me."
"Monsieur le Marechal did not so, Monsieur. He had been superintendent of
finances, and he counted every farthing he paid out of his own hand.
My lovely hair was not conveniently escaping from the comb
at the right moment to catch him hard in the eye, neither was my
thrillingly low sweet voice floating out on the scented air in a manner
which went straight to his heart, like the girls I had read of. On the
contrary, I much resembled a female clown. It was on a day towards the
end of September, and I had been up the creek making a collection of
ferns. I had on a pair of men's boots with which to walk in the water,
and was garbed in a most dilapidated old dress, which I had borrowed from
one of the servants for the purpose. A pair of gloves made of basil, and
a big hat, much torn in struggling through the undergrowth, completed my
make-up. My hair was most unbecomingly screwed up, the short ends
sticking out like a hurrah's nest.

It was late in the day when, returning from my ramble, I was met on the
doorstep by aunt Helen.

"While you are in that trim, I wish you would pluck some lemons for me.
I'm sure there is no danger of you ruining your turn-out. A sketch of you
would make a good item for the _Bulletin_," she said.

I went readily to do her bidding, and fetching a ladder with rungs about
two feet six apart, placed it against a lemon-tree at the back of the
house, and climbed up.

Holding a number of lemons in my skirt, I was making a most ungraceful
descent, when I heard an unknown footstep approaching towards my back.

People came to Caddagat at all hours of the day, so I was not in the
least disconcerted. Only a tramp, an agent, or a hawker, I bet, I
thought, as I reached my big boot down for another rung of the ladder
without turning my head to see whom it might be.

A pair of strong brown hands encircled my waist, I was tossed up a foot
or so and then deposited lightly on the ground, a masculine voice saying,
"You're a mighty well-shaped young filly--'a waist rather small, but a
quarter superb'."

"How dare anyone speak to me like that," I thought, as I faced about to
see who was parodying Gordon. There stood a man I had never before set
eyes on, smiling mischievously at me. He was a young man--a very young
man, a bushman tremendously tall and big and sunburnt, with an open
pleasant face and chestnut moustache--not at all an awe-inspiring fellow,
in spite of his unusual, though well-proportioned and carried, height. I
knew it must be Harold Beecham, of Five-Bob Downs, as I had heard he
stood six feet three and a half in his socks.

I hurriedly let down my dress, the lemons rolling in a dozen directions,
and turned to flee, but that well-formed figure bounded before me with
the agility of a cat and barred my way.

"Now, not a step do you go, my fine young blood, until you pick up every
jolly lemon and put them away tidily, or I'll tell the missus on you as
sure as eggs."

It dawned on me that he had mistaken me for one of the servant-girls. That
wasn't bad fun. I determined not to undeceive but to have a lark with him.
I summed him up as conceited, but not with the disgusting conceit with
which some are afflicted, or perhaps blessed. It was rather an air of
I-have-always-got-what-I-desire-and-believe,-if-people-fail-it-is-all-
their-own-fault, which surrounded him.

"If you please, sir," I said humbly, "I've gathered them all up, will you
let me go now."

"Yes, when you've given me a kiss."

"Oh, sir, I couldn't do that!"

"Go on, I won't poison you. Come now, I'll make you."

"Oh, the missus might catch me."

"No jolly fear; I'll take all the blame if she does."

"Oh don't, sir; let me go, please," I said in such unfeigned distress,
for I feared he was going to execute his threat, that he laughed and
said:

"Don't be frightened, sissy, I never kiss girls, and I'm not going to
start at this time of day, and against their will to boot. You haven't
been long here, have you? I haven't seen you before. Stand out there till
I see if you've got any grit in you, and then I am done with you."

I stood in the middle of the yard, the spot he indicated, while he
uncurled his long heavy stock-whip with its big lash and scented myall
handle. He cracked it round and round my head and arms, but I did not
feel the least afraid, as I saw at a glance that he was exceedingly
dexterous in the bushman's art of handling a stock-whip, and knew, if I
kept perfectly still, I was quite safe. It was thanks to uncle Jay-Jay
that I was able to bear the operation with unruffled equanimity, as he
was in the habit of testing my nerves in this way.

"Well, I never! Not so much as blinked an eyelash! Thoroughbred!" He said
after a minute or so, "Where's the boss?"

"In Gool-Gool. He won't be home till late."

"Is Mrs Bossier in?"

"No, she's not, but Mrs Bell is somewhere around in front."

"Thanks."

I watched him as he walked away with an easy swinging stride, which spoke
of many long, long days in the saddle. I felt certain as I watched him
that he had quite forgotten the incident of the little girl with the
lemons.


"Sybylla, hurry up and get dressed. Put on your best bib and tucker, and
I will leave Harry Beecham in your charge, as I want  to superintend the
making of some of the dishes myself this evening."

"It's too early to put on my evening dress, isn't it, auntie?

"It is rather early; but you can't spare time to change twice. Dress
yourself completely; you don't know what minute your uncle and his
worship will arrive."

I had taken a dip in the creek, so had not to bathe, and it took me but a
short time to don full war-paint--blue evening dress, satin slippers, and
all. I wore my hair flowing, simply tied with a ribbon. I slipped out
into the passage and called aunt Helen. She came.

"I'm ready, auntie. Where is he?"

"In the dining-room."

"Come into the drawing-room and call him. I will take charge of him till
you are at leisure. But, auntie, it will be a long time till dinner--how
on earth will I manage him?"

"Manage him!" she laughed; "he is not at all an obstreperous character."

We had reached the drawing-room by this, and I looked at myself in the
looking-glass while aunt Helen went to summon Harold Augustus Beecham,
bachelor, owner of Five-Bob Downs, Wyambeet, Wallerawang West,
Quat-Quatta, and a couple more stations in New South Wales, besides an
extensive one in Queensland.

I noticed as he entered the door that since I had seen him he had washed,
combed his stiff black hair, and divested himself of his hat, spurs, and
whip--his leggings had perforce to remain, as his nether garment was a
pair of closely fitting grey cloth riding-breeches, which clearly defined
the shapely contour of his lower limbs.

"Harry, this is Sybylla. I'm sure you need no further introduction. Excuse
me, I have something on the fire which is likely to burn." And aunt Helen
hurried off leaving us facing each other.

He stared down at me with undisguised surprise. I looked up at him and
laughed merrily. The fun was all on my side. He was a great big man--rich
and important. I was a chit--an insignificant nonentity--yet, despite his
sex, size, and importance, I was complete master of that situation, and
knew it: thus I laughed.

I saw that he recognized me again by the dusky red he flushed beneath his
sun-darkened skin. No doubt he regretted having called me a filly above
all things. He bowed stiffly, but I held out my hand, saying:

"Do shake hands. When introduced I always shake hands with anyone I think
I'll like. Besides, I seem to know you well. That's Nelson whistling for
me. I won't forget.

Good-bye. I have to hurry." And he kissed his family in great haste and
ran out into the hall for his overcoat and mittens and sled.

CHAPTER IV

ON COURT HILL
"Hello!"

called Nelson Baker, as Sunny Boy came out on his front steps,
dragging his new sled with him. "Did you know it snowed in the
night?

Can you go coasting?"
"Yes. And let's stop for Oliver," suggested Sunny Boy. "Oh, Nelson,
your mother is rapping on the window for you."

"Gee, I bet Ruth wants to go coasting," said Nelson crossly. "I never
wanted to do anything in my life, Ruth didn't want to, too. I think
girls are just horrid!"
"Nelson!" called Mrs.

Baker, raising the window, "wait just a minute, dear; Ruth wants to go
coasting, too. She will be right out."
"I told you so!" groaned Nelson.

"Now I can't have a hit of fun.

Ruth will cry because the sled goes too fast and she'll cry because her
feet are cold and she'll cry because she gets tired walking up the
hill.

And then she will want to come home just when I am having a good time and
I'll have to bring her. I wish Mother would make her stay in the house."

Before Sunny Boy could answer him, Ruth came out.

She was a pretty little girl, about four years old, and she wore a fur
hat and a dark red coat with a fur collar.

Her muff was tied to a string which went around her neck. She had her
own sled, a little one.

"Hello, Sunny Boy," she said, smiling. "Santa Claus brought me a sled, too."

"What do you want to go coasting for?"

asked Nelson, not waiting for Sunny Boy to answer. "Your feet will
get cold."

"They won't, either!" cried Ruth.

"Anyway, I'm going with you--Mother said I could. So there!" and she
stamped her foot in its shiny new rubber.

"All right, come on then," said Nelson crossly.

"What are you waiting so long for?

Sunny Boy and I could have a lot more fun if you stayed at home."
Sunny Boy was so afraid Ruth was going to cry at this unkind speech
that he tried to think of something to say that would make her
forget it.

"You sit on your sled and Nelson and I will pull you," he told Ruth.

"You can hold my sled for me."
This pleased Ruth very much, and she sat down on her sled and tucked her
coat around her and stuck her fat, short little legs, in their
gray leggings, straight out in front of her.

"Take my sled, too," said Nelson, forgetting to be cross. "Don't fall
off, because we are going to go fast."

"Let's play we are fire horses, going to a fire," suggested gunny
Boy.
They had some automobile fire apparatus in Centronia, but the engines
were still pulled by horses.

"Can you pull two sleds, Ruth?"
"Oh, my, yes," replied dear little Ruth.

If the boys had asked her to pull six sleds she would have tried her best
to do it. It did seem too bad that when she wanted to go with them and
tried so hard to please them, that they so often wished her to
stay in the house and play by herself.

That is, Nelson did.

"Hang on," said Nelson now, and away went the two fire horses, pulling
the fire engine.

Ruth nearly fell off when they started, for they jerked the sled,
but she managed to hold on.

The two sleds bumped wildly behind her, but she held the ropes tightly
and never cried out even when the boys pulled her over a curb-stone
and her sled tipped far to one side.

"Toot! Toot!" cried Sunny Boy, trying to whistle, and not doing it very
well because it is difficult to run and pull a sled and whistle,
all at the same time.

"Nelson!"

called Ruth, as they bumped her down another curbstone.

"Oh, Nelson! Say, Sunny Boy, wait a minute!"

"We can't stop! We have to get to the fire!" cried Nelson, panting.
"When we get to the fire we'll stop."
"But wait a minute!" begged Ruth, "I want to tell you something."

The two little boys pretended to kick up their heels and snort as they had
seen the fire horses do, and they would not stop. They galloped and pranced
and tried to run faster. At last they had to stop to get their breath.
Their cheeks were red and they were as warm as toast.

"Why--why--" stammered Sunny Boy, looking back at Ruth who sat on her sled
with her hands in her little fur muff. "Why, where are our sleds?"

"I dropped the ropes 'way back on Greene Street," replied Ruth
calmly.

"I asked you to stop and you wouldn't."
"Well, you might have said you lost the sleds," said Nelson. "Then we would
have stopped. Gee, I hope nobody took 'em! We'll have to go back."
Ruth got off her sled and walked back with the two boys. They found the
sleds on the sidewalk, exactly where a sudden jerk of the sled
she was on had made Ruth drop the ropes. Even Nelson could not scold his
sister when the sleds were so easily found, and as they went back toward
the hill he and Ruth and Sunny Boy took turns riding.

As Mrs. Horton had said, every boy and girl in Centronia was at Court
Hill, the one good spot for coasting in the city. At least it seemed that
every boy and girl had had a sled for a Christmas gift, or had one
left from the year before, or had borrowed one from some one who
had two, and all had trotted through the snow to enjoy the fun.

Since there was no school, there were high school and grammar and
primary grade children, as well as the little folks who went to
kindergarten or to Miss May's school, the small, private school
where Sunny Boy went.

Nelson Baker went to public school where Sunny would go when he was a
little older, Daddy Horton said.

"There's Perry Phelps and Jimmie Butterworth," cried Sunny Boy, as he
caught sight of two of his schoolmates. "Look at the crowd! Oh, Nelson,
see this sled coming down!"
A large sled shot by the children, filled with a crowd of high school boys
and girls.

"I don't believe I want to coast," said Ruth.

"I'm not exactly afraid, but I don't like it. Let's stay down here and
watch them, Nelson."

"You can stay," Nelson answered.

"But I want to coast.

Sit down on your sled by this stone and you can watch me coast."

But this didn't please Ruth. She didn't want to be left alone with
only her sled for company.

She wanted the boys to stay with her.

"You'll like it when you are used to it," urged Sunny Boy. "Come on, Ruth,
there are ever so many girls coasting.

You can steer as well as that girl in the green coat."

He pointed to a little freckle-faced girl who came down the hill on a
shabby old sled and steered it neatly out of the way of every sled
she met.

"No, I couldn't do that," said Ruth.

"But I'll coast with you, Sunny.

I can hang on to you."
Sunny Boy had meant to coast down the hill a few times by himself,
for he had not had a sled last year and he was not sure he knew how
to steer.

But, of course, if Ruth had made up her mind to coast with him on
his sled, Sunny Boy felt that there was nothing to do but take her.

"I'll go first! Watch me!" cried Nelson, scrambling up the hill ahead
of them. He plumped himself on his sled, pushed with one foot, and
away he flew down the hill.

"That looks just as easy," said Sunny Boy to himself.

He had to wait a minute to find a place for his sled in the row of coasters
lined up at the top of the hill.

Then he sat down and took the rope and Ruth sat down behind him
and grasped the belt of his coat.

"Here, I'll start you," offered a boy, who came up behind them.

"Wait a--" began Sunny Boy. He meant to say, "Wait a minute," but
the boy gave him a tremendous push and the sled slid over the hill and
began to go down.

"Ow!" shrieked Ruth, closing her eyes and opening her mouth very wide.
"Ow! Stop Sunny Boy! Ow! Ow!"
Sunny Boy couldn't stop. But he was steering nicely and they would probably
have had a fine coast if Ruth had not grown more frightened and
thrown her arms around his neck.

Her elbow knocked Sunny Boy's cap over his eye and he felt himself
being pulled over backward.

The sled went zigzagging down the hill for a moment, then a big
sled tore past it and knocked it to one side.

Ruth fell off and dragged Sunny Boy with her and the sled went on
down the hill alone.

Nelson had seen the spill at the bottom of the hill and he came
running up to them.

"Are you hurt, Ruth?" he asked his sister. "Did another sled hit you?
There's Jimmie Butterworth with your sled, Sunny Boy."
Ruth was not hurt, and neither was Sunny Boy. And tumbling off a sled
when you are coasting is rather fun if you do not get frightened.
Unfortunately, Ruth was frightened and she began to cry and say she wanted
to go home.

"I knew you'd want to go home," scolded Nelson. "You can't go. I haven't
had but one coast. Come on, and ride down on my sled."
"I don't want to ride on your sled," sobbed Ruth. "I want to go home; my
feet are cold."
"Well, you'll have to wait till I have some fun," said Nelson. "What did
you do with your sled?"
"I don't know," wailed Ruth. "My feet are cold."
"Step on them and they won't be," said Sunny Boy kindly. He meant that
Ruth should walk or run a little and then her feet would be warmer.

"I don't want to step on them!" Ruth cried. She was very unhappy indeed.
"I want my sled. I want to go home. My feet are cold."
"I'll find your sled," Sunny Boy promised, and he went up to the top of
the hill. After a little tramping around in the snow he found Ruth's
sled where she had left it. No one had touched it.

Sunny Boy came running back to Nelson and Ruth, dragging the sled, and
just as he came up to them he heard Ruth say: "I'll go home by myself,
then."
"You can't!" scolded Nelson. "Mother said you musn't cross streets without
me. And I'm not going home as soon as I get here. I want to coast.
You'll have to wait till I've had some fun."
Ruth was crying now and her little nose was red from the cold. She looked
so forlorn and uncomfortable that Sunny Boy's kind heart felt sorry for
her. He was anxious to coast and he hated to go home before he had had
any good times with his new sled, but he did not want Ruth to cry.

"I'll go home with you," he said. "You sit on the sled and I'll pull you."'

"Gee, will you take her home?" asked Nelson, in surprise. "That's
great! And then you can come back and we'll have packs of fun."
"All right," said Sunny Boy, though he was quite sure he couldn't come
back. It would be half-past eleven, he knew, before he could get home
and leave Ruth and come back to Court Hill; and Mother had said he must
stop coasting at half-past eleven. So, you see, he was really very kind
and good to take Ruth home and give up his own coasting fun to make her
happier.

Ruth sat down on her sled and held fast to Sunny Boy's sled, and he pulled
her all the way home, though she was a fat little girl and pretty heavy
for one boy to pull. And as soon as they were home again and
Ruth and her sled had gone into her house, Sunny Boy trotted around to
the kitchen door of his house to ask Harriet what time it was.

"Half-past eleven, just," answered Harriet. "Did you have a good time?"

CHAPTER V
THE SNOW MAN
Poor Sunny Boy!

When Harriet said it was half-past eleven he felt like crying himself,
though of course a boy six years old doesn't cry about anything
if he can help it.

"Did you have a good time coasting?"

asked Harriet again. She was getting lunch ready and Sunny Boy was sure he
smelled chicken soup.

"I didn't have any time," he explained sadly.

"I tipped Ruth off the sled and then she wanted to come home and I
had to come with her, 'cause her mother won't let her cross streets
all alone."

"And I suppose Nelson wanted to stay and enjoy himself," said Harriet.
"Well, never mind, Sunny Boy, next time you shall coast all morning, if
I have to go along to see that no one bothers you."
"Could I go this afternoon, Harriet?" asked Sunny Boy. "Mother
didn't say not to; she just said to come home at half-past eleven."
"Yes, I know she did," answered Harriet, putting salt in her soup and then
tasting it to be sure it was right. "But I don't think she wants you to
play on Court Hill in the afternoon when there will be a larger crowd.
I tell you what you do this afternoon, Sunny Boy: Build the biggest snow
man you can in the yard and then you'll surprise your mother and grandmother
when they come home from your Aunt Bessie's."
"I could s'prise 'em, couldn't I?"

replied Sunny Boy, chuckling in delight. "And Daddy and Grandpa, too! Do
you think I could make a very big snow man, Harriet?"
"I don't see why not," said Harriet. "You have a yard full of snow to make
him out of."
Sunny Boy was hungry, but he was so eager to begin to build his
snow man that he would have hurried through his lunch and skipped
the bread and butter entirely if Harriet had not said that he could
not go out to play at all unless he ate the things she gave him.

"Now I'm through," he declared when he had eaten even the crusts and his
glass of milk was quite empty. "Now may I build the snow man, Harriet?"

"Yes indeed you may," said Harriet. "And here is the old broom I promised
you, and the felt hat.

Do you know how to build a snow man, Sunny Boy?"
Sunny Boy was sure he did, and he went out into the yard, where the snow
was piled white and smooth and not even a path had been shoveled, and
began to roll a snowball to make the snow man.

"Hello, Sunny Boy, coming coasting?" called Oliver Dunlap.

He had rung the bell and Harriet had told him Sunny Boy was in the back
yard. So Oliver had walked through the house, scattering snow at
every step, and out through the kitchen to the back porch where
he found Sunny Boy beginning his snow man.

"Aren't you going coasting?" called Oliver again. "Come on, Sunny
Boy.
Nelson and Ruth have gone to dancing school and we can have heaps of fun."

"I have to build a snow man," replied Sunny Boy. "I want to
surprise my grandpa. Do you want to help build him, Oliver?"
"Why, I don't mind," said Oliver. "Wait till I bring my sled in. I left
it out on your front steps."
He ran through the house, and when he came back in a few moments there
were four other boys with him. They brought in a good deal of snow,
but Harriet did not mind; she said she would rather sweep up snow than
mud, any time.

"Here's Jimmie Butterworth, Sunny Boy," cried Oliver, as the five lads
tumbled down the steps, "and Perry and Leslie and Harry. We'll all help
you build a snow man."
Sunny Boy was glad to see his friends, and the snow man grew very
fast with six boys to work on him.

First they rolled the biggest snowball you ever saw. It took pretty
nearly all the snow in Sunny Boy's yard, and he and the other boys had to
go into Nelson Baker's yard and get more snow to make a head for the
snow man.

The great big snowball made the body of the snow man and a smaller
ball was his head. They made him arms, too, and stuck a broomstick
through one so that he looked, a little way off, as though he were
carrying a gun.

"He ought to have some face," said Sunny Boy, when they had this much
done.

"Get some coal," suggested Oliver. "You can make eyes and a nose and a
mouth with pieces of coal."
Sunny Boy went into the house and asked Harriet if he could, have some
coal to make a face for his snow man.

"Take some coal for his eyes," said Harriet. "And here is a strip of apple
skin which will make him a handsome mouth.

And perhaps the boys would like an apple to eat. I'll put half a dozen
in a basket for you."
Sunny Boy took several pieces of coal from the scuttle standing near the
kitchen range and a piece of apple skin Harriet gave him and the
basket of apples. The boys ate the apples right away and let the snow
man wait for his eyes and mouth.

"You put in his eyes, Sunny Boy," said Oliver, when his apple was
eaten and even the core had disappeared.

"You put in his eyes and I'll fix his mouth."
"Let me put on his hat," begged Harry Winn, when eyes and mouth were
in place. "Get out the way, fellows, and let me put on his hat."

They all wanted to put the snow man's hat on for him, all except Sunny
Boy.

He had several broken bits of coal left over and he wanted to put those
down the front of the snow man so that they would look like buttons
on his coat.

"I'm going to put the hat on," said Harry.

"I'll fix the buttons now," Sunny Boy said happily.

Harry snatched the old felt hat Harriet had given to the snow man
from Oliver, who held it.

Oliver made a dash for Harry and the other boys tried to trip him.

Around and around the yard they went, laughing and shouting, while Sunny
Boy calmly stuck pieces of coal down the white front of the snow
man and pretended they were buttons on his coat.

[Illustration: Sunny Boy calmly stuck pieces of coal down the white front
of the snow man.]

"I said I'd do it!"

shouted Harry, jumping for the snow man and landing half way up his
back.

He meant to clap the hat on the snow man's head and jump back. But, before
he could do this, the other four boys tumbled on top of him and the
snow man. Over went the whole statue, and the two huge balls of snow
fell squarely on Sunny Boy, just as Daddy and Grandpa Horton, who
had come home from the office early, stepped out on the back porch.

Sunny Boy was too surprised to be frightened, and before he had time
to wonder what had struck him, Daddy had him out and was brushing
the snow out of his ears and eyes.

"Are you hurt, Sunny Boy?" asked Harry.

"I didn't mean to knock the snow man over, honestly I didn't."
"There's snow down my neck," said Sunny Boy, wriggling.

"But nothing hurt me. Only the snow man is all gone."
There he lay, that beautiful snow man, in two pieces, several pieces
in fact, for the balls had broken apart when they fell.

"Never mind," said Daddy Horton cheerfully.

"You can easily build another snow man.

And the boys will help you, perhaps tomorrow."

"To-morrow is New Year's," announced Oliver Dunlap. "I have to go to
see my grandma. But I can help build a snow man the day after that."

The other boys promised to help build another snow man whenever Sunny Boy
asked them to, and then, as they were going into the house, Mrs.
Baker called to Daddy Horton.

"Wait a minute, Mr. Horton," she said, hurrying out with a scarf tied
over her pretty hair. "My nephew just telephoned to know if he could take
Nelson and Ruth bobsledding on the hill before dinner. They are at dancing
school this afternoon; but I wonder if you wouldn't let Sunny Boy
go. He hasn't had any fun at all to-day. This morning he came home with
Ruth because she was cold and cried, and then this afternoon the
snow man fell on him.

My nephew is very careful, and he would be glad to take all these
boys.

May I tell him they will meet him at the Hill?

He is on the 'phone now."
"Oh, Daddy, let me go!" cried Sunny Boy. "I never went on a bobsled.
Please, Daddy."

Mr.

Horton knew Blake Garrison, Mrs. Baker's nephew, and he knew he was careful
and very fond of younger children. Blake was a senior in high school
and had a splendid sled. It was just like him to think of his little
cousins and to want to give them pleasure. So Sunny Boy was allowed to
go, and the other boys went with him. They had all started to go coasting
anyway, they explained to Mr. Horton, when they passed Sunny Boy's house
and Oliver told them about the snow man. Their mothers would not
worry, they said, if they came home by five o'clock.

"Hello, everybody!" said Blake Garrison, when the six small boys found
him at the top of Court Hill. Most of them knew him by sight and he, it
seemed, knew all their names. "I'm glad you didn't all go to dancing
school. Do you feel like a little coast?"
"Let me steer, Blake?" asked Harry Winn.

Blake and another boy, Fred Carr, who was with him, laughed.

"I'll do the steering, Harry," said Blake firmly.

"You other youngsters pile on where you please, but I'll keep Sunny
Boy near me.

If he fell off we might lose him entirely, he's so little."
Sunny Boy smiled, but he did not say anything. He was having a
beautiful time. The six small boys got on the sled, and Blake and
three other high school friends of his got on, too. The big bob
started. Sunny Boy closed his eyes. My, how the wind whistled! How
the snow flew up and stung their faces! And how soon they came to
the bottom of the hill and shot across the little bridge that was
at the foot.

"Do it again," said Sunny Boy to Blake.You
have permission to use me in any way you like."

I pretended to miss her meaning.

Grannie consented to Miss Beecham's proposal, and ere the day arrived I
had a trunk packed with some lovely new dresses, and was looking forward
with great glee to my visit to Five-Bob Downs.

One o'clock on Wednesday afternoon arrived; two o'clock struck, and I was
beginning to fear no one was coming for me, when, turning to look out the
window for the eighteenth time, I saw the straight blunt nose of Harold
Beecham passing. Grannie was serving afternoon tea on the veranda. I did
not want any, so got ready while my escort was having his.

It was rather late when we bowled away at a tremendous pace in a red
sulky, my portmanteau strapped on at the back, and a thoroughbred
American trotter, which had taken prizes at Sydney shows, harnessed to
the front. We just whizzed! It was splendid! The stones and dust rose in
a thick cloud from the whirling wheels and flying hoofs, and the posts of
the wire fence on our left passed like magic as we went. Mr Beecham
allowed me to drive after a time while he sat ready to take the reins
should an emergency arise.

It was sunset--most majestic hour of the twenty-four--when we drove up to
the great white gates which opened into the avenue leading to the main
homestead of Five-Bob Downs station--beautiful far-reaching Five-Bob
Downs! Dreamy blue hills rose behind, and wide rich flats stretched
before, through which the Yarrangung river, glazed with sunset, could be
seen like a silver snake winding between shrubberied banks. The odour
from the six-acred flower-garden was overpowering and delightful. A
breeze gently swayed the crowd of trees amid the houses, and swept over
the great orchard which sloped down from the south side of the houses. In
the fading sunlight thirty iron roofs gleamed and glared, and seemed like
a little town; and the yelp of many dogs went up at the sound of our
wheels. Ah! beautiful, beautiful Five-Bob Downs!

It seemed as though a hundred dogs leapt forth to greet us when that gate
flew open, but I subsequently discovered there were but twenty-three.

Two female figures came out to meet us--one nearly six feet high, the
other, a tiny creature, seemed about eighteen inches, though, of course,
was more than that.

"I've brought her, aunt Gussie," said Harold, jumping out of the sulky,
though not relinquishing the reins, while he kissed the taller figure,
and the small one attached itself to his leg saying, "Dimme wide."

"Hullo! Possum, why wasn't old Spanker let go? I see he's not among the
dogs," and my host picked the tiny individual up in his arms and got into
the sulky to give her the desired ride, while after being embraced by
Miss Beecham and lifted to the ground by her nephew, I went with the
former over an asphalted tennis-court, through the wide garden, then
across a broad veranda into the great, spreading, one-storeyed house from
which gleamed many lights.

"I am so glad you have come, my dear. I must have a good look at you when
we get into the light. I hope you are like your mother."

This prospect discomfited me. I knew she would find a very ugly girl with
not the least resemblance to her pretty mother, and I cursed my
appearance under my breath.

"Your name is Sybylla," Miss Beecham continued, "Sybylla Penelope. Your
mother used to be very dear to me, but I don't know why she doesn't write
to me now. I have never seen her since her marriage. It seems strange to
think of her as the mother of eight-five boys and three girls, is it
not?"

Miss Beecham had piloted me through a wide hall and along an extended
passage out of which a row of bedrooms opened, into one of which we went.

"I hope you will he comfortable here, child. You need not dress for
dinner while you are here; we never do, only on very special occasions."

"Neither do we at Caddagat," I replied.

"Now, child, let me have a good look at you without your hat."

"Oh, please don't!" I exclaimed, covering my face with my hands. I am so
dreadfully ugly that I cannot bear to have anyone look at me."

"What a silly little girl! You are not like your mother, but you are not
at all plain-looking. Harold says you are the best style of girl he has
seen yet, and sing beautifully. He got a tuner up from Sydney last week,
so we will expect you to entertain us every night."

I learnt that what Harold pronounced good no one dared gainsay at
Five-Bob Downs.

We proceeded direct to the dining-room, and had not been there long when
Mr Beecham entered with the little girl on his shoulder. Miss Beecham had
told me she was Minnie Benson, daughter of Harold's married overseer on
Wyambeet, his adjoining station. Miss Beecham considered it would have
been more seemly for her nephew to have selected a little boy as a
play-thing, but his sentiments regarding boys were that they were
machines invented for the torment of adults.

"Well, O'Doolan, what sort of a day has it been?" Harold inquired,
setting his human toy upon the floor.

"Fine wezzer for yim duts," she promptly replied.

"Harold, it is shameful to teach a little innocent child such abominable
slang; and you might give her a decent nickname," said Miss Beecham.

"O'Doolan, this is Miss Melvyn, and you have to do the same to her as you
do to me."

The little thing held out her arms to me. I took her up, and she hugged
and kissed me, saying:

"I luz oo, I luz oo," and turning to Mr Beecham, "zat anuff?

"Yes, that will do," he said; and she struggled to be put down.

Three jackeroos, an overseer, and two other young men came in, were
introduced to me, and then we began dinner.

O'Doolan sat on a high chair beside Mr Beecham, and he attended to all
her wants. She did everything he did, even taking mustard, and was very
brave at quelling the tears that rose to the doll-like blue eyes. When Mr
Beecham wiped his moustache, it was amusing to see her also wipe an
imaginary one.

After dinner the jackeroos and the three other men repaired to a
sitting-room in the backyard, which was specially set apart for them, and
where they amused themselves as they liked. My host and hostess, myself,
and the child, spent the evening in a tiny sitting-room adjoining the
dining-room. Miss Beecham entertained me with conversation and the family
albums, and Harold amused himself entirely with the child.

Once when they were absent for a few minutes, Miss Beecham told me it was
ridiculous the way he fussed with the child, and that he had her with him
more than half his time. She also asked me what I thought of her nephew.
I evaded the question by querying if he was always so quiet and
good-tempered.

"Oh dear, no. He is considered a particularly bad-tempered man. Not one
of the snarling nasty tempers, but--"

Here the re-entry of the owner of the temper put a stop to this
conversation.

Harold gave O'Doolan rides on his back, going on all-fours. She shouted
in childish glee, and wound up by curling her small proportions on his
broad chest, and going to sleep there.

Mrs Benson had sent for little O'Doolan, and Harold took her home next
day. He invited me to accompany him, so we set out in the sulky with
O'Doolan on my lap. It was a pleasant drive of twelve miles to and from
Wyambeet. O'Doolan was much distressed at parting from Mr Beecham, but he
promised to come for her again shortly.

"One little girl at a time is enough for me to care for properly," he
said to me in the winning manner with which, and his wealth,
unintentionally and unconsciously made slaughter among the hearts of the
fair sex.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN


When Fortune Smiles


"Now, Harold, you have compelled Sybylla to come here, you must not
let the time drag with her," said Miss Beecham.

It was the second day after my arrival at Five-Bob. Lunch was over, and
we had adjourned to the veranda. Miss Beecham. was busy at her
work-table; I was ensconced on a mat on the floor reading a book; Harold
was stretched in a squatter's chair some distance away. His big brown
hands were clasped behind his head, his chin rested on his broad chest,
his eyes were closed, he occasionally thrust his lower lip forward and
sent a puff of breath upwards to scatter the flies from his face; he
looked a big monument of comfort, and answered his aunt's remarks lazily:

"Yes, aunt, I'll do my best;" and to me, "Miss Melvyn, while here, please
bear in mind that it will be no end of pleasure to me to do anything for
your enjoyment. Don't fail to command me in any way."

"Thank you, Mr Beecham. I will not fail to avail myself of your offer."

"The absurdity of you two children addressing each other so formally,"
said Miss Beecham. "Why, you are a sort of cousins almost, by right of
old friendship between the families. You must call me aunt."

After this Mr Beecham and I called each other nothing when in Miss
Beecham's hearing, but adhered to formality on other occasions.

Harold looked so comfortable and lazy that I longed to test how far he
meant the offer he had made me.

"I'm just dying for a row on the river. Would you oblige me?" I said.

"Just look at the thermometer!" exclaimed Miss Augusta. "Wait till it
gets cooler, child."

"Oh, I love the heat!" I replied. "And I am sure it won't hurt his
lordship. He's used to the sun, to judge from all appearances."

"Yes, I don't think it can destroy my complexion," he said
good-humouredly, rubbing his finger and thumb along his stubble-covered
chin. The bushmen up-country shaved regularly every Sunday morning, but
never during the week for anything less than a ball. They did this to
obviate the blue--what they termed "scraped pig"--appearance of the faces
of city men in the habit of using the razor daily, and to which they
preferred the stubble of a seven-days' beard. "I'll take you to the river
in half an hour," he said, rising from his seat. "First I must stick on
one of Warrigal's shoes that he's flung. I want him tomorrow, and must do
it at once, as he always goes lame if ridden immediately after shoeing."

"Shall I blow the bellows?" I volunteered.

"Oh no, thanks. I can manage myself. It would be better though if I had
some one. But I can get one of the girls."

"Can't you get one of the boys?" said his aunt.

"There's not one in. I sent every one off to the Triangle paddock today
to do some drafting. They all took their quart pots and a snack in their
saddle-bags, and won't be home till dark."

"Let me go," I persisted; "I often blow the bellows for uncle Jay-Jay, and
think it great fun."

The offer of my services being accepted, we set out.

Harold took his favourite horse, Warrigal, from the stable, and led him
to the blacksmith's forge under an open, stringybark-roofed shed, nearly
covered with creepers. He lit a fire and put a shoe in it. Doffing his
coat and hat, rolling up his shirt-sleeves, and donning a leather apron,
he began preparing the horse's hoof.

When an emergency arose that necessitated uncle Jay-Jay shoeing his
horses himself. I always manipulated the bellows, and did so with great
decorum, as he was very exacting and I feared his displeasure. In this
case it was different. I worked the pole with such energy that it almost
blew the whole fire out of the pan, and sent the ashes and sparks in a
whirlwind around Harold. The horse--a touchy beast--snorted and dragged his
foot from his master's grasp.

"That the way to blow?" I inquired demurely.

"Take things a little easier," he replied.

I took them so very easily that the fire was on the last gasp and the
shoe nearly cold when it was required.

"This won't do," said Beecham.

I recommenced blowing with such force that he had to retreat.

"Steady I steady!" he shouted.

"Sure O'i can't plaze yez anyhows," I replied.

"If you don't try to plaze me directly I'll punish you in a way you won't
relish," he said laughingly. But I knew he was thinking of a punishment
which I would have secretly enjoyed.

"If you don't let me finish this work I'll make one of the men do it
tonight by candle-light when they come home tired. I know you wouldn't
like them to do that," he continued.

"Arrah, go on, ye're only tazin'!" I retorted. "Don't you remember
telling me that Warrigal was such a nasty-tempered brute that he allowed
no one but yourself to touch him?"

"Oh well, then, I'm floored, and will have to put up with the
consequences," he good-humouredly made answer.

Seeing that my efforts to annoy him failed, I gave in, and we were soon
done, and then started for the river--Mr Beecham clad in a khaki suit and
I in a dainty white wrapper and flyaway sort of hat. In one hand my host
held a big white umbrella, with which he shaded me from the hot rays
of the October sun, and in the other was a small basket containing cake
and lollies for our delectation.

Having traversed the half-mile between the house and river, we pushed off
from the bank in a tiny boat just big enough for two. In the teeth of
Harold's remonstrance I persisted in dangling over the boat-side to
dabble in the clear, deep, running water. In a few minutes we were in it.
Being unable to swim, but for my companion it would have been all up with
me. When I rose to the surface he promptly seized me, and without much
effort, clothes and all, swam with me to the bank, where we landed--a pair
of sorry figures. Harold had mud all over his nose, and in general looked
very ludicrous. As soon as I could stand I laughed.

"Oh, for a snapshot of you!" I said.

"We might have both been drowned," he said sternly.

"Mights don't fly," I returned. "And it was worth the dip to see you
looking such a comical article." We were both minus our hats.

His expression relaxed.

"I believe you would laugh at your own funeral. If I look queer, you look
forty times worse. Run for your life and get a hot bath and a drop of
spirits or you'll catch your death of cold. Aunt Augusta will take a fit
and tie you up for the rest of the time in case something more will
happen to you."

"Catch a death of cold!" I ejaculated. "It is only good, pretty little
girls, who are a blessing to everyone, who die for such trifles; girls
like I am always live till nearly ninety, to plague themselves and
everybody else. I'll sneak home so that your aunt won't see me, and no
one need be a bit the wiser."

"You'll be sun-struck!" he said in dismay.

"Take care you don't get daughter-struck," I said perkily, turning
to flee, for it had suddenly dawned upon me that my thin wet clothing was
outlining my figure rather too clearly for propriety.

By a circuitous way I managed to reach my bedroom unseen. It did not take
me long to change my clothes, hang them to dry, and appear on the main
veranda where Miss Augusta was still sewing. I picked up the book I had
left on the mat, and, taking up a position in a hammock near her, I
commenced to read.

"You did not stay long at the river," she remarked. "Have you been
washing your head? I never saw the like of it. Such a mass of it. It will
take all day to dry."

Half an hour later Harold appeared dressed in a warm suit of tweed. He
was looking pale and languid, as though he had caught a chill, and
shivered as he threw himself on a lounge. I was feeling none the worse
for my immersion.

"Why did you change your clothes, Harold? You surely weren't cold on a
day like this. Sybylla has changed hers too, when I come to notice it,
and her hair is wet. Have you had an accident?" said Miss Augusta, rising
from her chair in a startled manner.

"Rubbish!" ejaculated Harold in a tone which forbade further questioning,
and the matter dropped.

She presently left the veranda, and I took the opportunity to say, "It is
yourself that requires the hot bath and a drop of spirits, Mr Beecham."

"Yes; I think I'll take a good stiff nobbler. I feel a trifle squeamish.
It gave me a bit of a turn when I rose to the top and could not see you.
I was afraid the boat might have stunned you in capsizing, and you would
be drowned before I could find you."

"Yes; I would have been such a loss to the world in general if I had been
drowned," I said satirically.


Several jackeroos, a neighbouring squatter, and a couple of bicycle
tourists turned up at Five-Bob that evening, and we had a jovial night.
The great, richly furnished drawing-room was brilliantly lighted, and the
magnificent Erard grand piano sang and rang again with music, now martial
and loud, now soft and solemn, now gay and sparkling. I made the very
pleasant discovery that Harold Beecham. was an excellent pianist, a
gifted player on the violin, and sang with a strong, clear, well-trained
tenor, which penetrated far into the night. How many, many times I have
lived those nights over again! The great room with its rich appointments,
the superb piano, the lights, the merriment, the breeze from the east,
rich with the heavy intoxicating perfume of countless flowers; the tall
perfect figure, holding the violin with a master hand, making it speak
the same language as I read in the dark eyes of the musician, while above
and around was the soft warmth of an Australian summer night.

Ah, health and wealth, happiness and youth, joy and light, life and love!
What a warm-hearted place is the world, how full of pleasure, good, and
beauty, when fortune smiles! _When fortune smiles!_


Fortune did smile, and broadly, in those days. We played tricks on one
another, and had a deal of innocent fun and frolic. I was a little
startled one night on retiring to find a huge goanna near the head of my
bed. I called Harold to dislodge the creature, when it came to light that
it was roped to the bedpost. Great was the laughter at my expense. Who
tethered the goanna I never discovered, but I suspected Harold. In return
for this joke, I collected all the portable docks in the house--about
twenty--and arrayed them on his bedroom table. The majority of them were
Waterburys for common use, so I set each alarm for a different hour.
Inscribing a placard "Hospital for Insane", I erected it above his door.
Next morning I was awakened at three o'clock by fifteen alarms in concert
outside my door. When an hour or two later I emerged I found a notice on
my door, "This way to the Zoo".

It was a very busy time for the men at Five-Bob. Waggons were arriving
with &hearing supplies, for it was drawing nigh unto the great event of
the year. In another week's time the bleat of thousands of sheep, and the
incense of much tar and wool, would be ascending to the heavens from the
vicinity of Five-Bob Downs. I was looking forward to the shearing. There
never was any at Caddagat. Uncle did not keep many sheep, and always sold
them long-woolled and rebought after shearing.

I had not much opportunity of persecuting Harold during the daytime. He
and all his subordinates were away all day, busy drafting, sorting, and
otherwise pottering with sheep. But I always, and Miss Augusta sometimes,
went to meet them coming home in the evening. It was great fun. The dogs
yelped and jumped about. The men were dirty with much dust, and smelt
powerfully of sheep, and had worked hard all day in the blazing sun, but
they were never too tired for fun, or at night to dance, after they had
bathed and dressed. We all had splendid horses. They reared and pranced;
we galloped and jumped every log which came in our path. Jokes, repartee,
and nonsense rattled off our tongues. We did not worry about thousands of
our fellows--starving and reeking with disease in city slums. We were
selfish. We were heedless. We were happy. We were young.


Harold Beecham was a splendid host. Anyone possessed of the least talent
for enjoyment had a pleasant time as his guest. He was hospitable in a
quiet unostentatious manner. His overseer, jackeroos, and other employees
were all allowed the freedom of home, and could invite whom they pleased
to Five-Bob Downs. It is all very well to talk of good hosts. Bah, I
could be a good hostess myself if I had Harold Beecham's superior
implements of the art! With an immense station, plenty of house-room,
tennis courts, musical instruments; a river wherein to fish, swim, and
boat; any number of horses, vehicles, orchards, gardens, guns, and
ammunition no object, it is easy to be a good host.

I had been just a week at Five-Bob when uncle Julius came to take me
home, so I missed the shearing. Caddagat had been a dull hole without me,
he averred, and I must return with him that very day. Mr and Miss Beecham
remonstrated. Could I not be spared at least a fortnight longer? It
would be lonely without me. Thereupon uncle Jay-Jay volunteered to
procure Miss Benson from Wyambeet as a substitute. Harold declined the
offer with thanks.

"The schemes of youngsters are very transparent," said uncle Jay-Jay and
Miss Augusta, smiling significantly at us. I feigned to be dense, but
Harold smiled as though the insinuation was not only known, but also
agreeable to him.

Uncle was inexorable, so home I had to go. It was sweet to me to hear
from the lips of my grandmother and aunt that my absence had been felt.

As a confidante aunt Helen was the pink of perfection--tactful and
sympathetic. My feather-brained chatter must often have bored her, but
she apparently was ever interested in it.

I told her long yarns of how I had spent my time at the Beechams; of the
deafening ducts Harold and I had played on the piano; and how he would
persist in dancing with me, and he being so tall and broad, and I so
small, it was like being stretched on a hay-rack, and very fatiguing. I
gave a graphic account of the arguments--tough ones they were too--that
Miss Augusta had with the overseer on religion, and many other subjects;
of one jackeroo who gabbed never-endingly about his great relations at
home; another who incessantly clattered about spurs, whips, horses, and
sport; and the third one--Joe Archer--who talked literature and trash with
me.

"What was Harry doing all this time?" asked auntie. "What did he say?"

Harold had been present all the while, yet I could not call to mind one
thing he had said. I cannot remember him ever holding forth on a subject
or cause, as most people do at one time or another.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


Idylls of Youth


In pursuance of his duty a government mail-contractor passed Caddagat
every Monday, dropping the Bossier mail as he went. On Thursday we also
got the post, but had to depend partly on our own exertions.

A selector at Dogtrap, on the Wyambeet run, at a point of the compass ten
miles down the road from Caddagat, kept a hooded van. Every Thursday he
ran this to and from Gool-Gool for the purpose of taking to market
vegetables and other farm produce. He also took parcels and passengers,
both ways, if called upon to do so. Caddagat and Five-Bob gave him a
great deal of carrying, and he brought the mail for these and two or
three other places. It was one of my duties, or rather privileges, to
ride thither on Thursday afternoon for the post, a leather bag slung
round my shoulders for the purpose. I always had a splendid mount, and
the weather being beautifully hot, it was a jaunt which I never failed to
enjoy. Frank Hawden went with me once or twice--not because grannie or I
thought his escort necessary. The idea was his own; but I gave him such a
time that he was forced to relinquish accompanying me as a bad job.

Harold Beecham kept a snivelling little Queensland black boy as a sort of
black-your-boots, odd-jobs slavey or factotum, and he came to Dogtrap for
the mail, but after I started to ride for it Harold came regularly for
his mail himself. Our homeward way lay together for two miles, but he
always came with me till nearly in sight of home. Some days we raced till
our horses were white with lather; and once or twice mine was in such a
state that we dismounted, and Harold unsaddled him and wiped the sweat
off with his towel saddle-cloth, to remove the evidence of hard riding,
so that I would not get into a scrape with uncle Jay-Jay. Other times we
dawdled, so that when we parted the last rays of sunset would be laughing
at us between the white trunks of the tall gum-trees, the kookaburras
would be making the echoes ring with their mocking good-night, and scores
of wild duck would be flying quickly roostward. As I passed through the
angle formed by the creek and the river, about half a mile from home,
there came to my cars the cheery clink-clink of hobble-chains, the jangle
of horse-bells, and the gleam of a dozen camp-fires. The shearing was
done out in Riverina now, and the men were all going home. Day after day
dozens of them passed along the long white road, bound for Monaro and the
cool country beyond the blue peaks to the southeast, where the shearing
was about to begin. When I had come to Caddagat the last of them had gone
"down" with horses poor; now they were travelling "up" with their
horses--some of them thoroughbreds--rolling fat, and a cheque for their
weeks of back-bending labour in their pockets. But whether coming or going
they always made to Caddagat to camp. That camping-ground was renowned as
the best from Monaro, to Riverina. It was a well-watered and sheltered
nook, and the ground was so rich that there was always a mouthful of
grass to be had there. It was a rare thing to see it without a fire; and
the empty jam-tins, bottles, bits of bag, paper, tent-pegs, and fish-tins
to be found there would have loaded a dozen waggons.

Thursday evening was always spent in going to Dogtrap, and all the other
days had their pleasant tasks and were full of wholesome enjoyment. The
blue senna flowers along the river gave place to the white bloom of the
tea-tree. Grannie, uncle, and aunt Helen filled the house with girl
visitors for my pleasure. In the late afternoon, as the weather got hot,
we went for bogeys in a part of the river two miles distant. Some of the
girls from neighbouring runs brought their saddles, others from town had
to be provided therewith, which produced a dearth in sidesaddles, and it
was necessary for me to take a man's. With a rollicking gallop and a
bogey ahead, that did not trouble me. Aunt Helen always accompanied us on
our bathing expeditions to keep us in check. She was the only one who
bothered with a bathing-dress. The rest of us reefed off our clothing, in
our hurry sending buttons in all directions, and plunged into the
pleasant water. Then--such water-fights, frolic, laughter, shouting and
roaring fun as a dozen strong healthy girls can make when enjoying
themselves. Aunt Helen generally called time before we were half inclined
to leave. We would linger too long, then there would be a great scramble
for clothes, next for horses, and with wet hair streaming on our towels,
we would go home full belt, twelve sets of galloping hoofs making a royal
clatter on the hard dusty road. Grannie made a rule that when we arrived
late we had to unsaddle our horses ourselves, and not disturb the working
men from their meal for our pleasure. We mostly were late, and so there
would be a tight race to see who would arrive at table first. A dozen
heated horses were turned out unceremoniously, a dozen saddles and
bridles dumped down anywhere anyhow, and their occupants, with wet
dishevelled hair and clothing in glorious disarray, would appear at table
averring that they were starving.

The Caddagat folk were enthusiastic anglers. Fishing was a favourite and
often enjoyed amusement of the household. In the afternoon a tinful of
worms would be dug out of one of the water-races, tackle collected,
horses saddled, and grannie, uncle, aunt, Frank Hawden, myself, and any
one else who had happened to drop in, would repair to the fish-holes
three miles distant. I hate fishing. Ugh! The hideous barbarity of
shoving a hook through a living worm, and the cruelty of taking the fish
off the hook! Uncle allowed no idlers at the river--all had to manipulate
a rod and line. Indulging in pleasant air-castles, I generally forgot my
cork till the rod would be jerked in my hand, when I would pull--too late!
the fish would be gone. Uncle would lecture me for being a jackdaw, so
next time I would glare at the cork unwinkingly, and pull at the first
signs of it bobbing--too soon! the fish would escape again, and I would
again be in disgrace. After a little experience I found it was a good
plan to be civil to Frank Hawden when the prospect of fishing hung
around, and then he would attend to my line as well as his own, while I
read a book which I smuggled with me. The fish-hole was such a
shrub-hidden nook that, though the main road passed within two hundred
yards, neither we nor our horses could be seen by the travellers thereon.
I lay on the soft moss and leaves and drank deeply of the beauties of
nature. The soft rush of the river, the scent of the shrubs, the golden
sunset, occasionally the musical clatter of hoofs on the road, the gentle
noises of the fishers fishing, the plop, plop of a platypus disporting
itself mid stream, came to me as sweetest elixir in my ideal,
dream-of-a-poet nook among the pink-based, grey-topped, moss-carpeted
rocks.

I was a creature of joy in those days. Life is made up of little things.
It was a small thing to have a little pocket-money to spend on anything
that took my fancy--a very small thing, and yet how much pleasure it gave
me. Though eating is not one of the great aims of my life, yet it was
nice to have enough of any delicacy one fancied. Not that we ever went
hungry at home, but when one has nothing to cat in the hot weather but
bread and beef it gives them tendency to dream of fruit and cool
dainties. When one thinks of the countless army of one's fellows who are
daily selling their very souls for the barest necessaries of life, I
suppose we--irresponsible beings--should be thankful to God for allowing
us, by scratching and scraping all our lives, to keep a crust in our
mouth and a rag on our back. I am not thankful, I have been guilty of
what Pat would term a "digresshion"--I started about going for the mail
at Dogtrap. Harold Beecham never once missed taking me home on Thursdays,
even when his shearing was in full swing and he must have been very busy.
He never once uttered a word of love to me--not so much as one of the
soft nothings in which young people of opposite sexes often deal without
any particular significance. Whether he went to all the bother and waste
of time accruing from escorting me home out of gentlemanliness alone, was
a mystery to me. I desired to find out, and resolved to drive instead of
ride to Dogtrap one day to see what he would say.

Grannie assented to the project. Of course I could drive for once if I
didn't feel able to ride, but the horses had been spelling for a long
time and were very frisky. I must take Frank with me or I might get my
neck broken.

I flatly opposed the idea of Frank Hawden going with me. He would make a
mull of the whole thing. It was no use arguing with grannie and
impressing upon her the fact that I was not the least nervous concerning
the horses. I could take Frank with me in the buggy, ride, or stay at
home. I preferred driving. Accordingly the fat horses were harnessed to
the buggy, and with many injunctions to be careful and not forget the
parcels, we set out. Frank Hawden's presence spoilt it all, but I
determined to soon make short work of him.

There was one gate to go through, about four miles from the house. Frank
Hawden got out to open it. I drove through, and while he was pushing it
to, laid the whip on the horses and went off full tilt. He ran after me
shouting all manner of things that I could not hear on account of the
rattle of the buggy. One horse began kicking up, so, to give him no time
for further pranks, I drove at a good round gallop, which quickly left
the lovable jackeroo a speck in the distance. The dust rose in thick
clouds, the stones rattled from the whirling wheels, the chirr! chirr! of
a myriad cicadas filled the air, and the white road glistened in the
dazzling sunlight. I was enjoying myself tip-top, and chuckled to think
of the way I had euchred Frank Hawden. It was such a good joke that I
considered it worth two of the blowings-up I was sure of getting from
grannie for my conduct.

It was not long before I fetched up at Dogtrap homestead, where, tethered
to the "six-foot" paling fence which surrounded the flower-garden, was
Harold Beecham's favourite, great, black, saddle-horse Warrigal. The
vicious brute turned his beautiful head, displaying a white star on the
forehead, and snorted as I approached. His master appeared on the veranda
raising his soft panama hat, and remarking, "Well I never! You're not by
yourself, are you?"

"I am. Would you please tell Mrs Butler to bring out grannie's parcels
and post at once. I'm afraid to dawdle, it's getting late."

He disappeared to execute my request and reappeared in less than a
minute.

"Mr Beecham, please would you examine Barney's harness. Something must be
hurting him. He has been kicking up all the way."

Examining the harness and noticing the sweat that was dripping from the
animals, panting from their run, he said:

"It looks as though you've been making the pace a cracker. There is
nothing that is irritating Barney in the least. If he's putting on any
airs it is because he is frisky and not safe for you to drive. How did
Julius happen to let you away by yourself?"

"I'm not frightened," I replied.

"I see you're not. You'd be game to tackle a pair of wild elephants, I
know, but you must remember you're not much bigger than a sparrow sitting
up there, and I won't let you go back by yourself."

"You cannot stop me."

"I can."

"You can't."

"I can."

"You can't."

"I can."

"How?"

"I'm going with you," he said.

"You're not."

"I am."

"You're not."

I am".

"You ar-r-re not."

"I am".

"You are, ar-r-re not."

"We'll see whether I will or not in a minute or two," he said with
amusement.

"But, Mr Betcham, I object to your company. I am quite capable of taking
care of myself; besides, if you come home with me I will not be allowed
out alone again--it will be altogether unpleasant for me."

Mrs Butler now appeared with the mail and some parcels, and Harold stowed
them in the buggy.

"You'd better come in an' 'ave a drop of tay-warter, miss, the kittle's
bilin'; and I have the table laid out for both of yez."

"No, thank you, Mrs Butler. I can't possibly stay today, it's getting
late. I must hurry off. Good-bye! Good afternoon, Mr Beecham."

I turned my buggy and pair smartly round and was swooping oil. Without a
word Harold was at their heads and seized the reins. He seized his
horse's bridle, where it was over the paling, and in a moment had him
tied on the off-side of Barney, then stepping quietly into the buggy he
put me away from the driver's seat as though I were a baby, quietly took
the reins and whip, raised his hat to Mrs Butler, who was smiling
knowingly, and drove off.

I was highly delighted with his action, as I would have despised him as a
booby had he given in to me, but I did not let my satisfaction appear. I
sat as far away from him as possible, and pretended to be in a great
huff. For a while he was too fully occupied in making Barney "sit up" to
notice me, but after a few minutes he looked round, smiling a most
annoying and pleasant smile.

"I'd advise you to straighten out your chin. It is too round and soft to
look well screwed up that way," he said provokingly.

I tried to extinguish him with a look, but it had not the desired effect.

"Now you had better be civil, for I have got the big end of the whip," he
said.

"I reserve to myself the right of behaving as I think fit in my own
uncle's buggy. You are an intruder; it is yourself that should be civil."

I erected my parasol and held it so as to tease Harold. I put it down so
that he could not see the horses. He quietly seized my wrist and held it
out of his way for a time, and then loosing me said, "Now, behave."

I flouted it now, so that his cars and eyes were endangered, and he was
forced to hold his hat on.

"I'll give you three minutes to behave, or I'll put you out," he said
with mock severity.

"Shure it's me wot's behavin' beautiful," I replied, continuing my
nonsense.

He pulled rein, seized me in one arm, and lifted me lightly to the
ground.

"Now, you can walk till you promise to conduct yourself like a
Christian!" he said, driving at a walk.

If you wait till I promise anything, you'll wait till the end of the
century. I'm quite capable of walking home."

"You'll soon get tired of walking in this heat, and your feet will he
blistered in a mile with those bits of paper."

The bits of paper to which he alluded were a pair of thin-soled white
canvas slippers--not at all fitted for walking the eight miles on the hard
hot road ahead of me. I walked resolutely on, without deigning a glance
at Harold, who had slowed down to a crawling walk.

"Aren't you ready to get up now?" he inquired presently.

I did not reply. At the end of a quarter of a mile he jumped out of the
buggy, seized upon me, lifted me in, and laughed, saying, "You're a very
slashing little concern, but you are not big enough to do much damage."

We were about half-way home when Barney gave a tremendous lurch, breaking
a trace and some other straps. Mr Beecham was at the head of the plunging
horse in a twinkling. The harness seemed to be scattered everywhere.

"I expect I had better walk on now," I remarked.

"Walk, be grannied! With two fat lazy horses to draw you?" returned Mr
Beecham.

Men are clumsy, stupid creatures regarding little things, but in their
right place they are wonderful animals. If a buggy was smashed to
smithereens, from one of their many mysterious pockets they would produce
a knife and some string, and put the wreck into working order in no time.

Harold was as clever in this way as any other man with as much bushman
ability as he had, so it was not long ere we were bowling along as
merrily as ever.

Just before we came in sight of Caddagat he came to a standstill, jumped
to the ground, untied Warrigal, and put the reins in my hand, saying:

I think you can get home safely from here. Don't be in such a huff--I was
afraid something might happen you if alone. You needn't mention that I
came with you unless you like. Goodbye."

"Good-bye, Mr Beecham. Thank you for being so officious," I said by way
of a parting shot.

"Old Nick will run away with you for being so ungrateful," he returned.

"Old Nick will have me anyhow," I thought to myself as I drove home amid
the shadows. The hum of the cicadas was still, and dozens of rabbits,
tempted out by the cool of the twilight, scuttled across my path and hid
in the ferns.

I wished the harness had not broken, as I feared it would put a clincher
on my being allowed out driving alone in future.

Joe Slocombe, the man who acted as groom and rouseabout, was waiting for
me at the entrance gate.

"I'm glad you come at last, Miss Sybyller. The missus has been in a
dreadful stoo for fear something had happened yuz. She's been runnin' in
an' out like a gurrl on the look-out fer her lover, and was torkin' of
sendin' me after yuz, but she went to her tea soon as she see the buggy
come in sight. I'll put all the parcels on the back veranda, and yuz can
go in at woncest or yuz'll be late fer yer tea."

"Joe, the harness broke and had to be tied up. That is what kept me so
late," I explained.

"The harness broke!" he exclaimed. "How the doose is that! Broke here in
the trace, and that strap! Well, I'll be hanged! I thought them straps
couldn't break only onder a tremenjous strain. The boss is so dashed
partickler too. I believe he'll sool me off the place; and I looked at
that harness only yesterday. I can't make out how it come to break so
simple. The boss will rise the devil of a shine, and say you might have
been killed."

This put a different complexion on things. I knew Joe Slocombe could mend
the harness with little trouble, as it was because he was what uncle
Jay-Jay termed a "handy divil" at saddlery that he was retained at
Caddagat. I said carelessly:

"If you mend the harness at once, Joe, uncle Julius need not be bothered
about it. As it happened, there is no harm done, and I won't mention the
matter."

"Thank you, miss," he said eagerly. "I'll mend it at once."

Now that I had that piece of business so luckily disposed of, I did not
feel the least nervous about meeting grannie. I took the mail in my arms
and entered the dining-room, chirping pleasantly:

"Grannie, I'm such a good mail-boy. I have heaps of letters, and did not
forget one of your commissions."

"I don't want to hear that now," she said, drawing her dear old mouth into
a straight line, which told me I was not going to palm things off as
easily as I thought. "I want a reason for your conduct this afternoon."

"Explain what, grannie?" I inquired.

"None of that pretence! Not only have you been most outrageously
insulting to Mr Hawden when I sent him with you, but you also
deliberately and wilfully disobeyed me."

Uncle Julius listened attentively, and Hawden looked at me with such a
leer of triumph that my fingers tingled to smack his cars. Turning to my
grandmother, I said distinctly and cuttingly:

"Grannie, I did not intentionally disobey you. Disobedience never entered
my head. I hate that thing. His presence was detestable to me. When he
got out at the gate I could not resist the impulse to drive off and leave
him there. He looked such a complete jackdaw that you would have laughed
yourself to see him."

"Dear, oh dear! You wicked hussy, what will become of you!" And grannie
shook her head, trying to look stern, and hiding a smile in her
serviette.

"Your manners are not improving, Sybylla. I fear you must be
incorrigible," said aunt Helen.

When uncle Jay-Jay heard the whole particulars of the affair, he lay back
in his chair and laughed fit to kill himself.

"You ought to be ashamed to always encourage her in her tomboyish ways,
Julius. It grieves me to see she makes no effort to acquire a ladylike
demeanour," said grannie.

Mr Hawden had come off second-best, so he arose from his half-finished
meal and stamped out, banging the door after him, and muttering something
about "a disgustingly spoilt and petted tomboy", "a hideous barbarian",
and so forth.

Uncle Jay-Jay related that story to everyone, dwelling with great delight
upon the fact that Frank Hawden was forced to walk four miles in the heat
and dust.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


As Short as I Wish had been the Majority of Sermons to which
I have been Forced to give Ear


When alone I confessed to aunt Helen that Harold had accompanied me to
within a short distance of home. She did not smile as usual, but looked
very grave, and, drawing me in front of her, said:

"Sybylla, do you know what you are doing? Do you love Harry Beecham? Do
you mean to marry him?"

"Aunt Helen, what a question to ask! I never dreamt of such a thing. He
has never spoken a word of love to me. Marriage! I am sure he does not
for an instant think of me in that light. I'm not seventeen."

"Yes, you are young, but some people's age cannot be reckoned by years. I
am glad to see you have developed a certain amount of half-real and
half-assumed youthfulness lately, but when the novelty of your present
life wears away, your old mature nature will be there, so it is of no use
feigning childishness. Harold Beecham is not given to speech--action with
him is the same thing. Can you look at me straight, Sybylla, and say that
Harold has not extended you something more than common politeness?"

Had aunt Helen put that question to me a day before, I would have blushed
and felt guilty. But today not so. The words of the jackeroo the night
before had struck home. "A hideous barbarian", he had called me, and it
seemed to me he had spoken the truth. My life had been so pleasant lately
that I had overlooked this fact, but now it returned to sting with
redoubled bitterness. I had no lovable qualities to win for me the love
of my fellows, which I so much desired.

I returned aunt Helen a gaze as steady as her own, and said bitterly:

"Aunt Helen, I can truly say he has never, and will never extend to me
more than common politeness. Neither will any other man. Surely you know
enough of masculine human nature to see there is no danger of a man
losing his heart to a plain woman like me. Love in fancy and song is a
pretty myth, embracing unity of souls, congeniality of tastes, and such
like commodities. In workaday reality it is the lowest of passions, which
is set alight by the most artistic nose and mouth, and it matters not if
its object is vile, low, or brainless to idiocy, so long as it has these
attributes."

"Sybylla, Sybylla," said auntie sadly, as if to herself. In the first
flush of girlhood, and so bitter. Why is this?"

"Because I have been cursed with the power of seeing, thinking, and,
worse than all, feeling, and branded with the stinging affliction of
ugliness," I replied.

"Now, Sybylla, you are going to think of yourself again. Something has
put you out. Be sensible for once in a way. What you have said of men's
love may be true in a sense, but it is not always so, and Harry is not
that kind of man. I have known him all his life, and understand him, and
feel sure he loves you truly. Tell me plainly, do you intend to accept
him?"

"Intend to accept him!" I echoed. I haven't once thought of such a
possibility. I never mean to marry anyone."

"Don't you care for Harold? Just a little? Think."

"How could I care for him?"

"For many, many reasons. He is young, and very kind and gentle. He is one
of the biggest and finest-looking men you could find. He is a man whom no
one could despise, for he has nothing despicable about him. But, best of
all, he is true, and that, I think, is the bedrock of all virtues."

"But he is so conceited," I remarked.

"That does not make him any the less lovable. I know another young person
very conceited, and it does not prevent me from loving her dearly," here
aunt Helen smiled affectionately at me. "What you complain of in Harold
will wear off presently--life has been very easy for him so far, you see."

"But, auntie, I'm sure he thinks he could have any girl for the asking."

"Well, he has a great number to choose from, for they all like him."

"Yes, just for his money," I said scornfully. "But I'll surprise him if
he thinks he can get me for the asking."

"Sybylla, never flirt. To play with a man's heart, I think, is one of the
most horribly unwomanly actions our sex can be guilty of."

"I would scorn to flirt with any man," I returned with vigour. "Play with
a man's heart! You'd really think they had such a thing, aunt Helen, to
hear you talk. Hurt their vanity for a few days is the most a woman could
do with any of them. I am sick of this preach, preach about playing with
men's hearts. It is an old fable which should have been abolished long
ago. It does not matter how a woman is played with."

"Sybylla, you talk at random. The shortcomings of men are no excuse for
you to be unwomanly," said aunt Helen.


CHAPTER NINETEEN


The 9th of November 1896


The Prince of Wales's birthday up the country was celebrated as usual
thereaway by the annual horse-races on the Wyambeet course, about
fourteen miles from Caddagat.

The holding of these races was an elderly institution, and was followed
at night by a servants' ball given by one of the squatters. Last year it
had been Beecham's ball, the year before Bossier's, and this year it was
to take place in the woolshed of James Grant of Yabtree. Our two girls,
the gardener, and Joe Slocombe the groom, were to be present, as also
were all the other employees about. Nearly every one in the
district--masters and men--attended the races. We were going, Frank Hawden
volunteering to stay and mind the house.

We started at nine o'clock. Grannie and uncle Boss sat in the front scat
of the buggy, and aunt Helen and I occupied the back. Uncle always drove
at a good round gallop. His idea was to have good horses, not donkeys,
and not to spare them, as there were plenty more to be had any day. On
this morning he went off at his usual pace. Grannie urged as remonstrance
that the dust was fearful when going at that rate. I clapped my hands and
exclaimed, "Go it, Mr Bossier! Well done, uncle Jay-Jay! Hurrah for
Clancy!"

Uncle first said he was glad to see I had the spirit of an Australian,
and then threatened to put my nose above my chin if I failed to behave
properly. Grannie remarked that I might have the spirit of an Australian,
but I had by no means the manners of a lady; while aunt Helen ventured a
wish that I might expend all my superfluous spirits on the way, so that I
would be enabled to deport myself with a little decorum when arrived at
the racecourse.

We went at a great pace; lizards and goannas scampered out of the way in
dozens, and, clambering trees, eyed us unblinkingly as we passed. Did we
see a person or vehicle a tiny speck ahead of us--in a short time they
were as far away in the background.

"Please, uncle, let me drive," I requested.

"Couldn't now. Your grannie can't sit in the back-seat--neither could
I--and look like a tame cockatoo while you sat in front. You ask Harry to
let you drive him. But this latter theory was not to be credited. For so
sensitive and so well-disposed a man as Dudley Stackpole to joy
in his own deadly act, however justifiable in the sight of law and
man that act might have been--why, the bare notion of it was
preposterous!

The repute and the prior conduct of the man robbed the suggestion of
all plausibility. And then soon, when night after night the lights still
flared in his house, and when on top of this evidence accumulated to
confirm a belief already crystallizing in the public mind, the town
came to sense the truth, which was that Mr.

Dudley Stackpole now feared the dark as a timid child might fear it.

It was not authentically chronicled that he confessed his fears to
any living creature.

But his fellow townsmen knew the state of his mind as though he had shouted
of it from the housetops.

They had heard, most of them, of such cases before. They agreed among
themselves that he shunned darkness because he feared that out of that
darkness might return the vision of his deed, bloodied and shocking
and hideous. And they were right. He did so fear, and he feared mightily,
constantly and unendingly.

That fear, along with the behavior which became from that night thenceforward
part and parcel of him, made Dudley Stackpole as one set over and
put apart from his fellows.

Neither by daytime nor by night-time was he thereafter to know
darkness. Never again was he to see the twilight fall or face the blackness
which comes before the dawning or take his rest in the cloaking, kindly
void and nothingness of the midnight. Before the dusk of evening came,
in midafternoon sometimes, of stormy and briefened winter days, or in the
full radiance of the sun's sinking in the summertime, he was within doors
lighting the lights which would keep the darkness beyond his portals and
hold at bay a gathering gloom into which from window or door he
would not look and dared not look.

There were trees about his house, cottonwoods and sycamores and one noble
elm branching like a lyre. He chopped them all down and had the
roots grubbed out. The vines which covered his porch were shorn
away.

To these things many were witnesses. What transformations he worked within
the walls were largely known by hearsay through the medium of Aunt
Kassie, the old negress who served him as cook and chambermaid and
was his only house servant.

To half-fearsome, half-fascinated audiences of her own color, whose
members in time communicated what she told to their white employers,
she related how with his own hands, bringing a crude carpentry into
play, her master ripped out certain dark closets and abolished a
secluded and gloomy recess beneath a hall staircase, and how privily
he called in men who strung his ceilings with electric lights,
although already the building was piped for gas; and how, for final
touches, he placed in various parts of his bedroom tallow dips and
oil lamps to be lit before twilight and to burn all night, so that
though the gas sometime should fail and the electric bulbs blink
out there still would be abundant lighting about him.

His became the house which harbored no single shadow save only the
shadow of morbid dread which lived within its owner's bosom.

An orthodox haunted house should by rights be deserted and dark. This
house, haunted if ever one was, differed from the orthodox conception.

It was tenanted and it shone with lights.

The man's abiding obsession--if we may call his besetment thus--changed
in practically all essential regards the manners and the practices
of his daily life.

After the shooting he never returned to his mill.

He could not bring himself to endure the ordeal of revisiting the scene
of the killing. So the mill stood empty and silent, just as he left it
that night when he rode to town with the sheriff, until after his
brother's death; and then with all possible dispatch he sold it,
its fixtures, contents and goodwill, for what the property would
fetch at quick sale, and he gave up business.

He had sufficient to stay him in his needs.

The Stackpoles had the name of being a canny and a provident family,
living quietly and saving of their substance. The homestead where he
lived, which his father before him had built, was free of debt. He
had funds in the bank and money out at interest. He had not been
one to make close friends. Now those who had counted themselves his
friends became rather his distant acquaintances, among whom he neither
received nor bestowed confidences.

In the broader hours of daylight his ways were such as any man of
reserved and diffident ways, having no fixed employment, might
follow in a smallish community.

He sat upon his porch and read in books. He worked in his flower
beds.

With flowers he had a cunning touch, almost like a woman's. He loved them,
and they responded to his love and bloomed and bore for him. He walked
downtown to the business district, always alone, a shy and unimpressive
figure, and sat brooding and aloof in one of the tilted-back cane chairs
under the portico of the old Richland House, facing the river. He took
long solitary walks on side streets and byways; but it was noted
that, reaching the outer outskirts, he invariably turned back.

In all those dragging years it is doubtful if once he set foot past the
corporate limits into the open country. Dun hued, unobtrusive, withdrawn,
he aged slowly, almost imperceptibly. Men and women of his own generation
used to say that save for the wrinkles ever multiplying in close cross-hatchings
about his puckered eyes, and save for the enhancing of that dead gray
pallor--the wasp's-nest overcasting of his skin--he still looked to them
exactly as he had looked when he was a much younger man.

It was not so much the appearance or the customary demeanor of the recluse
that made strangers turn about to stare at him as he passed, and
that made them remember how he looked when he was gone from their
sight.

The one was commonplace enough--I mean his appearance--and his conduct,
unless one knew the underlying motives, was merely that of an
unobtrusive, rather melancholy seeming gentleman of quiet tastes
and habits.

It was the feeling and the sense of a dismal exhalation from him, an
unhealthy and unnatural mental effluvium that served so indelibly to
fix the bodily image of him in the brainpans of casual and uninformed
passers-by. The brand of Cain was not on his brow. By every local standard
of human morality it did not belong there. But built up of morbid elements
within his own conscience, it looked out from his eyes and breathed out
from his person.

So year by year, until the tally of the years rolled up to more than thirty,
he went his lone unhappy way. He was in the life of the town, to an
extent, but not of it.

Always, though it was the daylit life of the town which knew him.

Excepting once only. Of this exceptional instance a story was so often
repeated that in time it became permanently embalmed in the unwritten
history of the place.

On a summer's afternoon, sultry and close, the heavens suddenly
went all black, and quick gusts smote the earth with threats of a
great windstorm.

The sun vanished magically; a close thick gloaming fell out of the
clouds.

It was as though nightfall had descended hours before its ordained time.
At the city power house the city electrician turned on the street lights.
As the first great fat drops of rain fell, splashing in the dust
like veritable clots, citizens scurrying indoors and citizens seeing
to flapping awnings and slamming window blinds halted where they
were to peer through the murk at the sight of Mr.

Dudley Stackpole fleeing to the shelter of home like a man hunted by a
terrible pursuer. But with all his desperate need for haste he
ran no straightaway course.

The manner of his flight was what gave added strangeness to the spectacle
of him. He would dart headlong, on a sharp oblique from the right-hand
corner of a street intersection to a point midway of the block--or
square, to give it its local name--then go slanting back again to
the right-hand corner of the next street crossing, so that his path
was in the pattern of one acutely slanted zigzag after another.

He was keeping, as well as he could within the circles of radiance thrown
out by the municipal arc lights as he made for his house, there
in his bedchamber to fortify himself about, like one beset and
besieged, with the ample and protecting rays of all the methods of
artificial illumination at his command--with incandescent bulbs
thrown on by switches, with the flare of lighted gas jets, with the
tallow dip's slim digit of flame, and with the kerosene wick's
three-finger breadth of greasy brilliance.

As he fumbled, in a very panic and spasm of fear, with the latchets
of his front gate Squire Jonas' wife heard him screaming to Aunt
Kassie, his servant, to turn on the lights--all of them.

That once was all, though--the only time he found the dark taking
him unawares and threatening to envelop him in thirty years and
more than thirty.

Then a time came when in a hospital in Oklahoma an elderly man named A.
Hamilton Bledsoe lay on his deathbed and on the day before he died
told the physician who attended him and the clergyman who had called
to pray for him that he had a confession to make.

He desired that it be taken down by a stenographer just as he uttered it,
and transcribed; then he would sign it as his solemn dying
declaration, and when he had died they were to send the signed copy
back to the town from whence he had in the year 1889 moved West,
and there it was to be published broadcast.

All of which, in due course of time and in accordance with the signatory's
wishes, was done.

With the beginning of the statement as it appeared in the _Daily
Evening News_, as with Editor Tompkins' introductory paragraphs
preceding it, we need have no interest.

That which really matters began two-thirds of the way down the first
column and ran as follows:
"How I came to know there was likely to be trouble that evening at
the big-riffle crossing was this way"--it is the dying Bledsoe, of
course, who is being quoted.

"The man they sent to the mill with the message did a lot of loose
talking on his way back after he gave in the message, and in this roundabout
way the word got to me at my house on the Eden's Swamp road soon after
dinnertime.

Now I had always got along fine with both of the Stackpoles, and
had only friendly feelings toward them; but maybe there's some
people still alive back there in that county who can remember what
the reason was why I should naturally hate and despise both the
Tatums, and especially this Jess Tatum, him being if anything the
more low-down one of the two, although the youngest.

At this late day I don't aim to drag the name of any one else into this,
especially a woman's name, and her now dead and gone and in her grave;
but I will just say that if ever a man had a just cause for craving
to see Jess Tatum stretched out in his blood it was me.

At the same time I will state that it was not good judgment for a man
who expected to go on living to start out after one of the Tatums
without he kept on till he had cleaned up the both of them, and
maybe some of their cousins as well.

I will not admit that I acted cowardly, but will state that I used my
best judgment.

"Therefore and accordingly, no sooner did I hear the news about the
dare which the Tatums had sent to the Stackpoles than I said to myself
that it looked like here was my fitting chance to even up my grudge
with Jess Tatum and yet at the same time not run the prospect of
being known to be mixed up in the matter and maybe getting arrested,
or waylaid afterwards by members of the Tatum family or things of
such a nature.

Likewise I figured that with a general amount of shooting going on, as
seemed likely to be the case, one shot more or less would not be noticed,
especially as I aimed to keep out of sight at all times and do my
work from under safe cover, which it all of it turned out practically
exactly as I had expected.

So I took a rifle which I owned and which I was a good shot with and I
privately went down through the bottoms and came out on the creek bank in
the deep cut right behind Stackpole Brothers' gristmill. I should say
offhand this was then about three o'clock in the evening. I was ahead
of time, but I wished to be there and get everything fixed up the way I
had mapped it out in my mind, without being hurried or rushed.

"The back door of the mill was not locked, and I got in without being seen,
and I went upstairs to the loft over the mill and I went to a window just
above the front door, which was where they hoisted up grain when
brought in wagons, and I propped the wooden shutter of the window
open a little ways.

But I only propped it open about two or three inches; just enough for
me to see out of it up the road good. And I made me a kind of pallet out
of meal sacks and I laid down there and I waited.

I knew the mill had shut down for the week, and I didn't figure on
any of the hands being round the mill or anybody finding out I was up
there. So I waited, not hearing anybody stirring about downstairs at all,
until just about three minutes past six, when all of a sudden came the
first shot.

"What threw me off was expecting the Tatums to come afoot from up the
road, but when they did come it was in a wagon from down the main
Blandsville pike clear round in the other direction.

So at this first shot I swung and peeped out and I seen Harve Tatum
down in the dust seemingly right under the wheels of his wagon, and
I seen Jess Tatum jump out from behind the wagon and shoot, and I
seen Dudley Stackpole come out of the mill door right directly under
me and start shooting back at him.

There was no sign of his brother Jeffrey. I did not know then that Jeffrey
was home sick in bed.

"Being thrown off the way I had been, it took me maybe one or two seconds
to draw myself around and get the barrel of my rifle swung round to where
I wanted it, and while I was doing this the shooting was going on.
All in a flash it had come to me that it would be fairer than ever
for me to take part in this thing, because in the first place the
Tatums would be two against one if Harve should get back upon his
feet and get into the fight; and in the second place Dudley Stackpole
didn't know the first thing about shooting a pistol.

Why, all in that same second, while I was righting myself and getting
the bead onto Jess Tatum's breast, I seen his first shot--Stackpole's
I mean--kick up the dust not twenty feet in front of him and less
than halfway to where Tatum was. I was as cool as I am now, and I seen
this quite plain.

"So with that, just as Stackpole fired wild again, I let Jess Tatum
have it right through the chest, and as I did so I knew from the
way he acted that he was done and through.

He let loose of his pistol and acted like he was going to fall, and
then he sort of rallied up and did a strange thing. He ran straight on
ahead toward the mill, with his neck craned back and him running
on tiptoe; and he ran this way quite a little ways before he dropped flat,
face down.

Somebody else, seeing him do that, might have thought he had the idea to
tear into Dudley Stackpole with his bare hands, but I had done enough
shooting at wild game in my time to know that he was acting like a
partridge sometimes does, or a wild duck when it is shot through
the heart or in the head; only in such a case a bird flies straight
up in the air.

Towering is what you call it when done by a partridge.

I do not know what you would call it when done by a man.

"So then I closed the window shutter and I waited for quite a little
while to make sure everything was all right for me, and then I hid
my rifle under the meal sacks, where it stayed until I got it
privately two days later; and then I slipped downstairs and went
out by the back door and came round in front, running and breathing
hard as though I had just heard the shooting whilst up in the swamp.

By that time there were several others had arrived, and there was also
a negro woman crying round and carrying on and saying she seen Jess Tatum
fire the first shot and seen Dudley Stackpole shoot back and seen Tatum
fall.

But she could not say for sure how many shots there were fired in
all.

So I saw that everything was all right so far as I was concerned,
and that nobody, not even Stackpole, suspicioned but that he himself
had killed Jess Tatum; and as I knew he would have no trouble with
the law to amount to anything on account of it, I felt that there
was no need for me to worry, and I did not--not worry then nor later.

But for some time past I had been figuring on moving out here on
account of this new country opening up.

So I hurried up things, and inside of a week I had sold out my place and
had shipped my household plunder on ahead; and I moved out here
with my family, which they have all died off since, leaving only me.

And now I am about to die, and so I wish to make this statement before I
do so.

"But if they had thought to cut into Jess Tatum's body after he was dead,
or to probe for the bullet in him, they would have known that it
was not Dudley Stackpole who really shot him, but somebody else;
and then I suppose suspicion might have fell upon me, although I
doubt it.

Because they would have found that the bullet which killed him was fired
out of a forty-five-seventy shell, and Dudley Stackpole had done all of
the shooting he done with a thirty-eight caliber pistol, which would throw
a different-size bullet. But they never thought to do so."
Question by the physician, Doctor Davis: "You mean to say that no autopsy
was performed upon the body of the deceased?"
Answer by Bledsoe: "If you mean by performing an autopsy that they probed
into him or cut in to find the bullet I will answer no, sir, they did
not.

They did not seem to think to do so, because it seemed to everybody such a
plain open-and-shut case that Dudley Stackpole had killed him."
Question by the Reverend Mr.

Hewlitt: "I take it that you are making this confession of your own free
will and in order to clear the name of an innocent party from blame and to
purge your own soul?"
Answer: "In reply to that I will say yes and no.

If Dudley Stackpole is still alive, which I doubt, he is by now
getting to be an old man; but if alive yet I would like for him to
know that he did not fire the shot which killed Jess Tatum on that
occasion.

He was not a bloodthirsty man, and doubtless the matter may have
preyed upon his mind.

So on the bare chance of him being still alive is why I make this dying
statement to you gentlemen in the presence of witnesses. But I am not
ashamed, and never was, at having done what I did do. I killed Jess
Tatum with my own hands, and I have never regretted it. I would not
regard killing him as a crime any more than you gentlemen here
would regard it as a crime killing a rattlesnake or a moccasin snake.

He ordered Joe Archer to play a waltz, and the floor soon held several
whirling couples. Harold "requested the pleasure" of me--the first time
that night. I demurred. He would not take a refusal.

"Believe me, if I felt competent, Mr Beecham, I would not refuse. I
cannot dance. It will be no pleasure to you."

"Allow me to be the best judge of what is a pleasure to me," he said,
quietly placing me in position.

He swung me once round the room, and then through an open window into the
garden.

"I am sorry that I haven't had more time to look after you today. Come
round into my room. I want to strike a bargain with you," were his words.

I followed him in the direction of a detached building in the garden.
This was Harold's particular domain. It contained three rooms--one a
library and office, another an arsenal and deed-room, and the third, into
which he led me, was a sort of sitting-room, containing a piano,
facilities for washing, a table, easy-chairs, and other things. As we
entered I noticed the lamp, burning brightly on the table, gleamed on the
face of a clock on the wall, which pointed to half past ten.

We stood beside the table, some distance apart, and, facing me, he said:

"It is no use of me making a long yarn about nothing. I'm sure you know
what I want to say better than I do myself. You always are wonderfully
smart at seeing through a fellow. Tell me, will it be yes or no?"

This was an experience in love. He did not turn red or white, or yellow
or green, nor did he tremble or stammer, or cry or laugh, or become
fierce or passionate, or tender or anything but just himself, as I had
always known him. He displayed no more emotion than had he been inviting
me to a picnic. This was not as I had pictured a man would tell his love,
or as I had read of it, heard of it, or wished it should be. A curious
feeling--disappointment, perhaps--stole over me. His matter-of-fact
coolness flabbergasted me.

"Is this not rather sudden? You have given me no intimation of your
intentions," I stammered.

"I didn't think it wise to dawdle any longer," he replied. "Surely you
have known what I've been driving at ever since I first clapped eyes on
you. There's plenty of time. I don't want to hurry you, only I want you
to be engaged to me for safety."

He spoke as usual in his slow twangy drawl, which would have proclaimed
his Colonial nationality anywhere. No word of love was uttered to me and
none requested from me.

I put it down to his conceit. I thought that he fancied he could win any
woman, and me without the least palaver or trouble. I felt annoyed. I
said aloud, "I will become engaged to you;" to myself I added, "Just for a
little while, the more to surprise and take the conceit out of you when
the time comes."

Now that I understand his character I know that it was not conceit, but
just his quiet unpretending way. He had meant all his actions towards me,
and had taken mine in return.

"Thank you, Sybylla, that is all I want. We will talk about the matter
more some other time. I will go up to Caddagat next Sunday. You have
surprised me nearly out of my wits," here he laughed. "I never dreamt you
would say yes so easily, just like any other girl. I thought I would have
a lot of trouble with you."

He approached me and was stooping to kiss me. I cannot account for my
action or condemn it sufficiently. It was hysterical--the outcome of an
overstrung, highly excitable, and nervous temperament. Perhaps my vanity
was wounded, and my tendency to strike when touched was up in arms. The
calm air of ownership with which Harold drew near annoyed me, or, as
Sunday-school teachers would explain it, Satan got hold of me. He
certainly placed a long strong riding-whip on the table beneath my hand!
As Harold stooped with the intention of pressing his lips to mine, I
quickly raised the whip and brought it with all my strength right across
his face. The instant the whip had descended I would have smashed my arm
on the door-post to recall that blow. But that was impossible. It had
left a great weal on the healthy sun-tanned skin. His moustache had saved
his lips, but it had caught his nose, the left cheek, had blinded the
left eye, and had left a cut on the temple from which drops of blood were
rolling down his cheek and staining his white coat. A momentary gleam of
anger shot into his eyes and he gave a gasp, whether of surprise, pain,
or annoyance, I know not. He made a gesture towards me. I half expected
and fervently wished he would strike. The enormity of what I had done
paralysed me. The whip fell from my fingers and I dropped on to a low
lounge behind me, and placing my elbows on my knees crouchingly buried my
face in my hands; my hair tumbled softly over my shoulders and reached
the floor, as though to sympathetically curtain my humiliation. Oh, that
Harold would thrash me severely! It would have infinitely relieved me. I
had done a mean unwomanly thing in thus striking a man, who by his great
strength and sex was debarred retaliation. I had committed a violation of
self-respect and common decency; I had given a man an ignominious blow in
the face with a riding-whip. And that man was Harold Beecham, who with
all his strength and great stature was so wondrously gentle--who had
always treated my whims and nonsense with something like the amused
tolerance held by a great Newfoundland for the pranks of a kitten.

The clock struck eleven.

"A less stinging rebuke would have served your purpose. I had no idea
that a simple caress from the man whose proposal of marriage you had just
accepted would be considered such an unpardonable familiarity."

Harold's voice fell clearly, calmly, cuttingly on the silence. He moved
away to the other end of the room and I heard the sound of water.

A desire filled me to tell him that I did not think he had attempted a
familiarity, but that I had been mad. I wished to say I could not account
for my action, but I was dumb. My tongue refused to work, and I felt as
though I would choke. The splash of the water came from the other end of
the room. I knew he must be suffering acute pain in his eye. A far
lighter blow had kept me sleepless a whole night. A fear possessed me
that I might have permanently injured his sight. The splash of water
ceased. His footfall stopped beside me. I could feel he was within
touching distance, but I did not move.

Oh, the horrible stillness! Why did he not speak? He placed his hand
lightly on my head.

"It doesn't matter, Syb. I know you didn't mean to hurt me. I suppose you
thought you couldn't affect my dark, old, saddle-flap-looking phiz. That
is one of the disadvantages of being a big lumbering concern like I am.
Jump up. That's the girl."

I arose. I was giddy, and would have fallen but for Harold steadying me
by the shoulder. I looked up at him nervously and tried to ask his
forgiveness, but I failed.

"Good heavens, child, you are as white as a sheet! I was a beast to speak
harshly to you." He held a glass of water to my lips and I drank.

"Great Jupiter, there's nothing to worry about! I know you hadn't the
slightest intention of hurting me. It's nothing--I'll be right in a few
moments. I've often been amused at and have admired your touch-me-not
style. You only forgot you had something in your hand."

He had taken it quite as a matter of fact, and was excusing me in the
kindest possible terms.

"Good gracious, you mustn't stew over such a trifling accident! It's
nothing. Just tie this handkerchief on for me, please, and then we'll go
back to the others or there will be a search-party after us."

He could have tied the handkerchief just as well himself--it was only out
of kindly tact he requested my services. I accepted his kindness
gratefully. He sank on his knee so that I could reach him, and I tied a
large white handkerchief across the injured part. He could not open his
eye, and hot water poured from it, but he made light of the idea of it
paining. I was feeling better now, so we returned to the ballroom. The
clock struck the half-hour after eleven as we left the room. Harold
entered by one door and, I by another, and I slipped into a seat as
though I had been there some time.

There were only a few people in the room. The majority were absent--some
love-making, others playing cards. Miss Beecham. was one who was not thus
engaged. She exclaimed at once:

"Good gracious, boy, what have you done to yourself?"

"Looks as if he had been interviewing a belligerent tramp," said aunt
Helen, smilingly.

"He's run into the clothes-line, that's what he's done," said Miss
Augusta confidently, after she had peeped beneath the bandage.

"You ought to get a bun for guessing, aunt Gus," said Harold laughing.

I told them to put the clothes-lines up when they had done with them. I
knew there would be an accident."

"Perhaps they were put up high enough for ordinary purposes," remarked
her nephew.

"Let me do something for you, dear."

"No, thank you, aunt Gus. It is nothing," he said carelessly, and the
matter dropped.

Harold Beecham. was not a man to invite inquiry concerning himself.

Seeing I was unobserved by the company, I slipped away to indulge in my
foolish habit of asking the why and the wherefore of things. Why had
Harold Beecham (who was a sort of young sultan who could throw the
handkerchief where he liked) chosen me of all women? I had no charms to
recommend me--none of the virtues which men demand of the woman they wish
to make their wife. To begin with, I was small, I was erratic and
unorthodox, I was nothing but a tomboy--and, cardinal disqualification, I
was ugly. Why, then, had he proposed matrimony to me? Was it merely a
whim? Was he really in earnest?

The night was soft and dark; after being out in it for a time I could
discern the shrubs dimly silhouetted against the light. The music struck
up inside again. A step approached me on the gravelled walk among the
flowers, and Harold called me softly by name. I answered him.

"Come," he said, "we are going to dance; will you be my partner?"

We danced, and then followed songs and parlour games, and it was in the
small hours when the merry goodnights were all said and we had retired to
rest. Aunt Helen dropped to sleep in a short time; but I lay awake
listening to the soft distant call of the mopokes in the scrub beyond the
stables.


CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE


My Unladylike Behaviour Again


Joe Archer was appointed to take us home on the morrow. When our host
was seeing us off--still with his eye covered--he took opportunity of
whispering to me his intention of coming to Caddagat on the following
Sunday.

Early in the afternoon of that day I took a book, and, going down the
road some distance, climbed up a broad-branched willow-tree to wait for
him.

It was not long before he appeared at a smart canter. He did not see me
in the tree, but his horse did, and propping, snorted wildly, and gave a
backward run. Harold spurred him, he bucked spiritedly. Harold now saw me
and sang out:

"I say, don't frighten him any more or he'll fling me, saddle and all. I
haven't got a crupper or a breastplate."

"Why haven't you, then? Hang on to him. I do like the look of you while
the horse is going on like that."

He had dismounted, and had thrown the bridle rein over a post of the
fence.

"I came with nothing but a girth, and that loose, as it was so hot; and I
was as near as twopence to being off, saddle and all. You might have been
the death of me," he said good-humouredly.

"Had I been, my fortune would have been made," I replied.

"How do you make that out? You're as complimentary as ever."

"Everyone would be wanting to engage me as the great noxious weed-killer
and poisonous insect exterminator if I made away with you," I answered. I
gave him an invitation to take a scat with me, and accepting, he swung up
with easy grace. There was any amount of accommodation for the two of us
on the good-natured branches of the old willow-tree.

When he had settled himself, my companion said, "Now, Syb, I'm ready for
you. Fire away. But wait a minute, I've got something here for you which
I hope you'll like."

As he searched in his pockets, I noticed that his eye had quite
recovered, though there was still a slight mark on his cheek. He handed
me a tiny morocco case, which on being opened disclosed a costly ring. I
have about as much idea of the prices of things as a turkey would have.
Perhaps that ring cost thirty pounds or possibly fifty guineas, for all I
know. It was very heavy, and had a big diamond supported on either side
by a large sapphire, and had many small gems surrounding it.

"Let me see if it fits," he said, taking my hand; but I drew it away.

"No; don't you put it on. That would make us irrevocably engaged."

"Isn't that what we intend to be?" he said in a tone of surprise.

"Not just yet; that is what I want to say to you. We will have three
months' probation to see how we get on. At the end of that time, if we
manage to sail along smoothly, we'll have the real thing; until then we
will not be any more than we have been to each other."

"But what am I to do in the meantime?" he asked, with amusement curving
the corners of his mouth.

"Do! Do the usual thing, of course; but don't pay me any special
attentions, or I'll be done with you at once."

"What's your idea for this?"

"It is no use making fools of ourselves; we might change our minds."

"Very well; so be it," he said laughing. I might have known you would
have things arranged different from any other girl. But you'll take the
ring and wear it, won't you? Let me put it on."

"No; I won't let you put a finger on me till the three months are up.
Then, if we definitely make up our minds, you can put it on; but till
then, don't for the life of you hint by word or sign that we have any
sort of an arrangement between us. Give me the ring and I'll wear it
sometimes."

He handed it to me again, and I tried it on. It was a little large.
Harold took it, and tried to put it on one of his fingers. It would fit
on none but the very top of his little finger. We laughed heartily at the
disparity in the size of our hands.

"I'll agree to your bargain," he said. "But you'll be really engaged to
me all the same.`

"Yes; under those conditions. Then it will not matter if we have a tiff.
We can part, and no one will be the wiser."

On my suggesting that it was now time to go to the house, he swung
himself down by a branch and turned to assist me. Descending from that
tree was a feat which presented no difficulties to me when no one was by,
but now it seemed an awkward performance.

"Just lead your horse underneath, so that I can get on to his back,
thence to the ground quite easily," I said.

"No fear! Warrigal wouldn't stand that kind of dodge. Won't I do? I don't
think your weight will quite squash me," he returned, placing himself in
leap-frog position, and I stepped on to his back and slid from there to
the ground quite easily.

That afternoon, when leaving the house, I had been followed by one of the
dogs, which, when I went up the willow-tree, amused himself chasing water
lizards along the bank of the creek. He treed one, and kept up a furious
barking at the base of its refuge. The yelping had disturbed grannie
where she was reading on the veranda, and coming down the road under a
big umbrella to see what the noise was about, as luck would have it she
was in the nick of time to catch me standing on Harold Beecham's back.
Grannie frequently showed marked displeasure regarding what she termed my
larrikinism, but never before had I seen her so thoroughly angry.
Shutting her umbrella, she thrust at me with it, saying, "shame! shame!
You'll come to some harm yet, you immodest, bold, bad hussy! I will write
to your mother about you. Go home at once, miss, and confine yourself in
your room for the remainder of the day, and don't dare eat anything until
tomorrow. Spend the time in fasting, and pray to God to make you better.
I don't know what makes you so forward with men. Your mother and aunt
never gave me the slightest trouble in that way."

She pushed me from her in anger, and I turned and strode housewards
without a word or glancing behind. I could hear grannie deprecating my
conduct as I departed, and Harold quietly and decidedly differing from
her.

From the time of my infancy punishment of any description never had a
beneficial effect upon me. But dear old grannie was acting according to
her principles in putting me through a term of penance, so I shut myself
in my room as directed, with goodwill towards her at my heart. I was
burning with shame. Was I bold and immodest with men, as accused of
being? It was the last indiscretion I would intentionally have been
guilty of. In associating with men I never realize that the trifling
difference of sex is sufficient to be a great wall between us. The fact
of sex never for an instant enters my head, and I find it as easy to be
chummy with men as with girls: men in return have always been very good,
and have treated me in the same way.

On returning from her walk grannie came to my room, brought me some
preachy books to read, and held out to me the privilege of saying I was
sorry, and being restored to my usual place in the society of the
household.

"Grannie, I cannot say I am sorry and promise to reform, for my
conscience does not reproach me in the least. I had no evil--not even a
violation of manners--in my intentions; but I am sorry that I vexed you,"
I said.

"Vexing me is not the sinful part of it. It is your unrepentant heart
that fills me with fears for your future. I will leave you here to think
by yourself. The only redeeming point about you is, you do not pretend to
be sorry when you are not."

The dear old lady shook her head sorrowfully as she departed.

The afternoon soon ran away, as I turned to my bookcase for entertainment
and had that beautiful ring to admire.

I heard them come in to tea, and I thought Harold had gone till I heard
uncle Jay-Jay address him:

"Joe Archer told me you ran into a clothes-line on race-night, and ever
since then mother has kept up a daddy of a fuss about ours. We've got
props about a hundred feet long, and if you weren't in the know you'd
think we had a telegraph wire to old St Peter up above."

I wondered what Harold thought of the woman he had selected as his future
wife being shut up for being a "naughty girl". The situation amused me
exceedingly.

About nine o'clock he knocked at my window and said:

"Never mind, Syb. I tried to get you off, but it was no go. Old people
often have troublesome straitlaced ideas. It will blow over by tomorrow."

I did not answer; so he passed on with firm regular footfall, and
presently I heard his horse's hoof-beats dying away in the darkness, and
the closing and locking of doors around me as the household retired for
the night.

During the following fortnight I saw Harold a good many times at
cricket-matches' hare-drives, and so forth, but he did not take any
particular notice of me. I flirted and frolicked with my other young men
friends, but he did not care. I did not find him an ardent or a jealous
lover. He was so irritatingly cool and matter-of-fact that I wished for
the three months to pass so that I might be done with him, as I had come
to the conclusion that he was barren of emotion or passion of any kind.


CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


SWEET SEVENTEEN


Monday arrived--last day of November and seventeenth anniversary of my
birth--and I celebrated it in a manner which I capitally enjoyed.

It was the time of the annual muster at Cummabella--a cattle-station
seventeen miles eastward from Caddagat--and all our men were there
assisting. Word had been sent that a considerable number of beasts among
those yarded bore the impress of the Bossier brand on their hides; so on
Sunday afternoon uncle Jay-Jay had also proceeded thither to be in
readiness for the final drafting early on Monday morning. This left us
manless, as Frank Hawden, being incapacitated with a dislocated wrist,
was spending a few weeks in Gool-Gool until he should be fit for work
again.

Uncle had not been gone an hour when a drover appeared to report that
twenty thousand sheep would pass through on the morrow. Grass was
precious. It would not do to let the sheep spread and dawdle at their
drovers' pleasure. There was not a man on the place; grannie was in a
great stew; so I volunteered my services. At first she would not hear of
such a thing, but eventually consented. With many injunctions to conduct
myself with proper stiffness, I started early on Monday morning. I was
clad in a cool blouse, a holland riding-skirt, and a big straw hat; was
seated on a big bay horse, was accompanied by a wonderful sheep-dog, and
carried a long heavy stock-whip. I sang and cracked my stock-whip as I
cantered along, quite forgetting to be reserved and proper. Presently I
came upon the sheep just setting out for their day's tramp, with a black
boy ahead of them, of whom I inquired which was the boss. He pointed
towards a man at the rear wearing a donkey-supper hat. I made my way
through the sheep in his direction, and asked if he were in charge of
them. On being answered in the affirmative, I informed him that I was Mr
Bossier's niece, and, as the men were otherwise engaged, I would see the
sheep through.

"That's all right, miss. I will look out that you don't have much
trouble," he replied, politely raising his hat, while a look of amusement
played on his face.

He rode away, and shouted to his men to keep the flock strictly within
bounds and make good travelling.

"Right you are, boss," they answered; and returning to my side he told me
his name was George Ledwood, and made some remarks about the great
drought and so on, while we rode in the best places to keep out of the
dust and in the shade. I asked questions such as whence came the sheep?
whither were they bound? and how long had they been on the road? And
having exhausted these orthodox remarks, we fell a-talking in dead
earnest without the least restraint. I listened with interest to stories
of weeks and weeks spent beneath the sun and stars while crossing widths
of saltbush country, mulga and myall scrubs, of encounters with blacks in
Queensland, and was favoured with a graphic description of a big strike
among the shearers when the narrator had been boss-of-the-board out
beyond Bourke. He spoke as though well educated, and a gentleman--as
drovers often are. Why, then, was he on the road? I put him down as a
scapegrace, for he had all the winning pleasant manner of a
ne'er-do-well.

At noon--a nice, blazing, dusty noon--we halted within a mile of Caddagat
for lunch. I could have easily ridden home for mine, but preferred to
have it with the drovers for fun. The men boiled the billy and made the
tea, which we drank out of tin pots, with tinned fish and damper off tin
plates as the completion of the menu, Mr Ledwood and I at a little
distance from the men. Tea boiled in a billy at a bush fire has a
deliciously aromatic flavour, and I enjoyed my birthday lunch immensely.
Leaving the cook to collect the things and put them in the spring-cart,
we continued on our way, lazily lolling on our horses and chewing
gum-leaves as we went.

When the last of the sheep got off the Caddagat run it was nearing two
o'clock.

Mr Ledwood and I shook hands at parting, each expressing a wish that we
might meet again some day.

I turned and rode homewards. I looked back and saw the drover gazing
after me. I waved my hand; he raised his hat and smiled, displaying his
teeth, a gleam of white in his sun-browned face. I kissed my hand to him;
he bowed low; I whistled to my dog; he resumed his way behind the
crawling sheep; I cantered home quickly and dismounted at the front gate
at 2.30 p.m., a dusty, heated, tired girl.

Grannie came out to question me regarding the sex, age, condition, and
species of the sheep, what was their destination, whether they were in
search of grass or were for sale, had they spread or eaten much grass,
and had the men been civil?

When I had satisfactorily informed her on all these points, she bade me
have something to cat, to bathe and dress, and gave me a holiday for the
remainder of the day.

My hair was grey with dust, so I washed all over, arrayed myself in a
cool white dress, and throwing myself in a squatter's chair in the
veranda, spread my hair over the back of it to dry. Copies of Gordon,
Kendall, and Lawson were on my lap, but I was too physically content and
comfortable to indulge in even these, my sworn friends and companions. I
surrendered myself to the mere joy of being alive. How the sunlight
blazed and danced in the roadway--the leaves of the gum-trees gleaming in
it like a myriad gems! A cloud of white, which I knew to be cockatoos,
circled over the distant hilltop. Nearer they wheeled until I could hear
their discordant screech. The thermometer on the wall rested at 104
degrees despite the dense shade thrown on the broad old veranda by the
foliage of creepers, shrubs, and trees. The gurgling rush of the creek,
the scent of the flower-laden garden, and the stamp, stamp of a horse in
the orchard as he attempted to rid himself of tormenting flies, filled my
senses. The warmth was delightful. Summer is heavenly, I said--life is a
joy.

Aunt Helen's slender fingers looked artistic among some pretty fancy-work
upon which she was engaged. Bright butterflies flitted round the garden,
and thousands of bees droned lazily among the flowers. I closed my
eyes--my being filled with the beauty of it all.

I could hear grannie's pen fly over the paper as she made out a list of
Christmas supplies on a table near me.

"Helen, I suppose a hundredweight of currants will he sufficient ?"

"Yes; I should think so."

"Seven dozen yards of unbleached calico be enough?"

"Yes; plenty."

"Which tea-service did you order?"

"Number two."

"Do you or Sybylla want anything extra?"

"Yes; parasols, gloves, and some books."

"Books! Can I get them at Hordern's?"

"Yes."

Grannie's voice faded on my ears, my thoughts ran on uncle Jay-Jay. He
had promised to be home in time for my birthday spread, and I was sure he
had a present for me. What would it be?--something nice. He would be
nearly sure to bring someone home with him from Cummabella, and we would
have games and fun to no end. I was just seventeen, only seventeen, and
had a long, long life before me wherein to enjoy myself. Oh, it was good
to be alive! What a delightful place the world was!--so accommodating, I
felt complete mistress of it. It was like an orange--I merely had to
squeeze it and it gave forth sweets plenteously. The stream sounded far
away, the sunlight blazed and danced, grannie's voice was a pleasant
murmur in my ear, the cockatoos screamed over the house and passed away
to the west. Summer is heavenly and life is a joy, I reiterated. Joy!
Joy! There was joy in the quit! quit! of the green-and-crimson parrots,
which swung for a moment in the rose-bush over the gate, and then whizzed
on into the summer day. There was joy in the gleam of the sun and in the
hum of the bees, and it throbbed in my heart. Joy! Joy! A jackass laughed
his joy as he perched on the telegraph wire out in the road. joy! joy!
Summer is a dream of delight and life is a joy, I said in my heart. I was
repeating the one thing over and over--but ah! it was a measure of
happiness which allowed of much repetition. The cool murmur of the creek
grew far away, I felt my poetry books slip off my knees and fall to the
floor, but I was too content to bother about them--too happy to need their
consolation, which I had previously so often and so hungrily sought.
Youth! Joy! Warmth!

The clack of the garden gate, as it swung to, awoke me from a pleasant
sleep. Grannie had left the veranda, and on the table where she had been
writing aunt Helen was filling many vases with maidenhair fern and La
France roses. A pleasant clatter from the dining-room announced that my
birthday tea was in active preparation. The position of the yellow
sunbeams at the far end of the wide veranda told that the dense shadows
were lengthening, and that the last of the afternoon was wheeling
westward. Taking this in, in an instant I straightened the piece of
mosquito-netting, which, to protect me from the flies, someone--auntie
probably--had spread across my face, and feigned to be yet asleep. By the
footsteps which sounded on the stoned garden walk, I knew that Harold
Beecham was one of the individuals approaching.


"How do you do, Mrs Bell? Allow me to introduce my friend, Archie
Goodchum. Mrs Bell, Mr Goodchum. Hasn't it been a roaster today?
Considerably over 100 degrees in the shade. Terribly hot!"

Aunt Helen acknowledged the introduction, and seated her guests, saying:

"Harry, have you got an artistic eye? If so, you can assist me with these
flowers. So might Mr Goodchum, if he feels disposed."

Harold accepted the proposal, and remarked:

"What is the matter with your niece? It is the first time I ever saw her
quiet."

"Yes; she is a noisy little article--a perfect whirlwind in the house--but
she is a little tired this afternoon; she has been seeing those sheep
through today."

"Don't you think it would be a good lark if I get something and tickle
her?" said Goodchum.

"Yes, do," said Harold; "but look out for squalls. She is a great little
fizzer."

"Then she might be insulted."

"Not she," interposed auntie. "No one will enjoy the fun more than
herself."

I had my eyes half open beneath the net, so saw him cautiously approach
with a rose-stem between his fingers. Being extremely sensitive to
tickling, so soon as touched under the ear I took a flying leap from the
chair somewhat disconcerting my tormentor.

He was a pleasant-looking young fellow somewhere about twenty, whose face
was quite familiar to me.

He smiled so good-humouredly at me that I widely did the same in return,
and he came forward with extended hand, exclaiming, "At last!"

The others looked on in surprise, Harold remarking suspiciously, "You
said you were unacquainted with Miss Melvyn, but an introduction does
not seem necessary."

"Oh, yes it is," chirped Mr Goodchum. I haven't the slightest idea of the
young lady's name."

"Don't know each other!" ejaculated Harold; and grannie, who had appeared
upon the scene, inquired stiffly what we meant by such capers if
unacquainted.

Mr Goodchum hastened to explain.

"I have seen the young lady on several occasions in the bank where I am
employed, and I had the good fortune to be of a little service to her one
day when I was out biking. Her harness, or at least the harness on the
horse she was driving, broke, and I came to the rescue with my
pocket-knife and some string, thereby proving, if not ornamental, I was
useful. After that I tried hard to find out who she was, but my inquiries
always came to nothing. I little dreamt who Miss Melvyn was when Harry,
telling me she was a Goulburn girl, asked if I knew her."

"Quite romantic," said aunt Helen, smiling; and a great thankfulness
overcame me that Mr Goodchum had been unable to discover my identity
until now. It was right enough to be unearthed as Miss Melvyn,
grand-daughter of Mrs Bossier of Caddagat, and great friend and intimate
of the swell Beechams of Five-Bob Downs station. At Goulburn I was only
the daughter of old Dick Melvyn, broken-down farmer-cockatoo, well known
by reason of his sprees about the commonest pubs in town.

Mr Goodchum told us it was his first experience of the country, and
therefore he was enjoying himself immensely. He also mentioned that he
was anxious to see some of the gullies around Caddagat, which, he had
heard, were renowned for the beauty of their ferns. Aunt Helen,
accordingly, proposed a walk in the direction of one of them, and hurried
off to attend to a little matter before starting. While waiting for her,
Harold happened to say it was my birthday, and Mr Goodchum tendered me
the orthodox wishes, remarking, It is surely pardonable at your time of
life to ask what age you have attained today?"

"Seventeen."

"Oh! oh! 'sweet seventeen, and never been kissed'; but I suppose you
cannot truthfully say that, Miss Melvyn?"

"Oh yes, I can."

"Well, you won't he able to say it much longer," he said, making a
suggestive move in my direction. I ran, and he followed, grannie
reappearing from the dining-room just in time to see me bang the garden
gate with great force on my pursuer.

"What on earth is the girl doing now?" I heard her inquire.

However, Mr Goodchum. did not execute his threat; instead we walked along
decorously in the direction of the nearest ferns, while Harold and aunt
Helen followed, the latter carrying a sunbonnet for me.

After we had climbed some distance up a gully aunt Helen called out that
she and Harold would rest while I did the honours of the fern grots to my
companion.

We went on and on, soon getting out of sight of the others.

"What do you say to my carving our names on a gum-tree, the bark is so
nice and soft?" said the bank clerk; and I seconded the proposal.

"I will make it allegorical," he remarked, setting to work.

He was very deft with his penknife, and in a few minutes had carved S. P.
M. and A. S. G., encircling the initials by a ring and two hearts
interlaced.

"That'll do nicely," he remarked, and turning round, "Why, you'll get a
sunstroke; do take my hat."

I demurred, he pressed the matter, and I agreed on condition he allowed
me to tie his handkerchief over his head. I was wearing his hat and tying
the ends of a big silk handkerchief beneath his chin when the cracking of
a twig caused me to look up and see Harold Beecham with an expression on
his face that startled me.

"Your aunt sent me on with your hood," he said jerkily.

"You can wear it--I've been promoted," I said flippantly, raising my
head-gear to him and bowing. He did not laugh as he usually did at my
tricks, but frowned darkly instead.

"We've been carving our names--at least, I have," remarked Goodchum.

Harold tossed my sun-bonnet on the ground, and said shortly, "Come on,
Goodchum, we must be going."

"Oh, don't go, Mr Beecham. I thought you came on purpose for my birthday
tea. Auntie has made me a tremendous cake. You must stay. We never dreamt
of you doing anything else."

"I've changed my mind," he replied, striding on at such a pace that we
had difficulty in keeping near him. As we resumed our own head-wear,
Good churn whispered, "A bulldog ant must have stung the boss. Let's ask
him."

On reaching the house we found other company had arrived in the persons
of young Mr Goodjay from Cummabella, his sister, her governess, and a
couple of jackeroos. They were seated on the veranda, and uncle Jay-Jay,
attired in his shirt-sleeves, was appearing through the dining-room door
with half a dozen bottles of home-made ginger ale in his arms. Dumping
them down on the floor, he produced a couple of tots from his
shirt-pockets, saying, "Who votes for a draw of beer? Everyone must feel
inclined for a swig. Harry, you want some; you don't look as though the
heat was good for your temper. Hullo, Archie! Got up this far. Take a
draw out of one of these bottles. If there had been a dozen pubs on the
road, I'd have drunk every one of em dry today. I never felt such a daddy
of a thirst on me before."

"Good gracious, Julius!" exclaimed grannie, as he offered the governess a
pot full of beer, "Miss Craddock can't drink out of that pint."

"Those who don't approve of my pints, let 'em bring their own," said
that mischievous uncle Jay-Jay, who was a great hand at acting the clown
when he felt that way inclined.

I was dispatched for glasses, and after emptying the bottles uncle
proposed a game of tennis first, while the light lasted, and tea
afterwards. This proposition being carried with acclamation, we proceeded
to the tennis court. Harold came too--he had apparently altered his
intention of going home immediately.

There were strawberries to be had in the orchard, also some late
cherries, so uncle ordered me to go and get some. I procured a basket,
and willingly agreed to obey him. Mr Goodchum offered to accompany me,
but Harold stepped forward saying he would go, in such a resolute tragic
manner that Goodchum winked audaciously, saying waggishly, "Behold, the
hero descends into the burning mine!"


CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE


Ah, For One Hour of Burning Love,
'tis Worth an Age of Cold Respect!


We walked in perfect silence, Harold not offering to carry my little
basket. I did not dare lift my eyes, as something told me the face of the
big man would not be pleasant to look upon just then. I twirled the ring
he had given me round and round my finger. I occasionally put it on,
wearing the stones on the palm-side of my finger, so that it would not he
taken for other than one of two or three aunt Helen had lent me, saying I
was at liberty to use them while at Caddagat, if it gave me any pleasure.

The Caddagat orchard contained six acres, and being a narrow enclosure,
and the cherries growing at the extreme end from the house, it took us
some time to reach them. I led the way to our destination--a secluded nook
where grape-vines clambered up fig-trees, and where the top of gooseberry
bushes met the lower limbs of cherry-trees. Blue and yellow lupins stood
knee-high, and strawberries grew wild among them. We had not uttered a
sound, and I had not glanced at my companion. I stopped; he wheeled
abruptly and grasped my wrist in a manner which sent the basket whirling
from my hand. I looked up at his face, which was blazing with passion,
and dark with a darker tinge than Nature and the sun had given it, from
the shapely swelling neck, in its soft well-turned-down collar, to where
the stiff black hair, wet with perspiration, hung on the wide forehead.

"Unhand me, sir!" I said shortly, attempting to wrench myself free, but I
might as well have tried to pull away from a lion.

"Unhand me!" I repeated.

For answer he took a firmer hold, in one hand seizing my arm above the
elbow, and gripping my shoulder with the other so tightly that, through
my flimsy covering, his strong fingers bruised me so severely that in a
calmer moment I would have squirmed and cried out with pain.

"How dare you touch me!" He drew me so closely to him that, through his
thin shirt--the only garment on the upper part of his figure--I could
feel the heat of his body, and his big heart beating wildly.

At last! at last! I had waked this calm silent giant into life. After
many an ineffectual struggle I had got at a little real love or passion,
or call it by any name--something wild and warm and splendidly alive that
one could feel, the most thrilling, electric, and exquisite sensation
known.

I thoroughly enjoyed the situation, but did not let this appear. A minute
or two passed and he did not speak.

"Mr Beecham, I'll trouble you to explain yourself. How dare you lay your
hands upon me?"

"Explain!" he breathed rather than spoke, in a tone of concentrated fury.
"I'll make _you_ explain, and I'll do what I like with you. I'll touch you
as much as I think fit. I'll throw you over the fence if _you_ don't
explain to _my_ satisfaction."

"What is there that I can explain?"

"Explain your conduct with other men. How dare you receive their
attentions and be so friendly with them!"

"How dare you speak to me like that! I reserve the right of behaving as I
please without your permission."

"I won't have a girl with my engagement ring on her finger going on as you
do. I think I have a right to complain, for I could get any amount of
splendid women in every way to wear it for me, and behave themselves
properly too," he said fiercely.

I tossed my head defiantly, saying, "Loose your hold of me, and I'll
quickly explain matters to my own satisfaction and yours, Harold
Beecham."

He let me go, and I stepped a pace or two away from him, drew the costly
ring from my finger, and, with indifference and contempt, tossed it to
his feet, where the juice of crushed strawberries was staining the
ground, and facing him, said mockingly:

"Now, speak to the girl who wears your engagement ring, for I'll degrade
myself by wearing it no more. If you think I think you as great a catch
as you think yourself, just because you have a little money, you are a
trifle mistaken, Mr Beecham, that is all. Ha ha ha! So you thought you
had a right to lecture me as your future slave! Just fancy! I never had
the slightest intention of marrying you. You were so disgustingly
conceited that I have been attempting to rub a little of it out of you.
Marry you! Ha ha! Because the social laws are so arranged that a woman's
only sphere is marriage, and because they endeavour to secure a man who
can give them a little more ease, you must not run away with the idea
that it is yourself they are angling for, when you are only the
bothersome appendage with which they would have to put up, for the sake
of your property. And you must not think that because some women will
marry for a home they all will. I trust I have explained to your
satisfaction, Mr Beecham. Ha ha ha!"

The jealous rage had died out of his face and was succeeded by trembling
and a pallor so ghastly, that I began to have a little faith in
descriptions of love which I had hitherto ridiculed.

"Are you in earnest?" he asked in a deadly calm voice.

"Most emphatically I am."

"Then all I can say is that I haven't much respect for you, Miss Melvyn.
I always considered that there were three classes of women--one, that
would marry a blackfellow if he had money; another, that were shameless
flirts, and who amuse themselves by flirting and disgracing the name of
woman; and a third class that were pure and true, on whom a man could
stake his life and whom he could worship. I thought you belonged to this
class, but I have been mistaken. I know you always try to appear
heartless and worthless, but I fancied it was only your youth and
mischief, and imagined you were good underneath; but I have been
mistaken," he repeated with quiet contempt.

His face had regained its natural colour, and the well-cut pleasant
mouth, clearly seen beneath the soft drooping moustache, had hardened
into a sullen line which told me he would never be first to seek
reconciliation--not even to save his life.

"Bah!" I exclaimed sarcastically. "It appears that we all labour under
delusions. Go and get a beautiful woman to wear your ring and your name.
One that will be able to say yes and no at the right time; one who will
know how to dress properly; one who wouldn't for the world do anything
that other women did not also; one who will know where to buy the best
groceries and who will readily sell herself to you for your wealth.
That's the sort of woman that suits men, and there are plenty of them;
procure one, and don't bother with me. I am too small and silly, and
have nothing to recommend me. I fear it speaks little for your sense or
taste that you ever thought of me. Ta-ta, Mr Beecham," I said over my
shoulder with a mocking smile, and walked away.

When about half-way down the orchard reflection pulled me up shortly
under an apple-tree.

I had said what I had said because, feeling bitter for the want of love,
and because full of pain myself, I rejoiced with a sort of revenge to see
the same feeling flash across another's face. Then feeling nothing more
I set it down to fancy and dropped off to sleep again, face turned
towards that idol.

Later, I felt the same kind of thing run across my neck. I knew it was no
fancy then, and my scare vanished because here was something to do. So
I waited with my right hand poised to grab. I waited a long time, too,
but I have lots of patience. Presently it ran down my body starting at my
left shoulder and I brought down my hand at a venture, claw fashion, and
caught the thing on the blanket. I felt the blanket raise and then
fall again, just a little, of course, as I lifted my hand with the thing
in it, and by that knew that it had claws. Yet bet I held tight. It
seemed to be hard and smooth. It was a wiry, wriggling thing, somewhat
like a lizard. But it was much more vigorous than any lizard. I tried
to crush it, but could not. As to thickness, it seemed to be about the
diameter of one of those lead pencils. It was like this I had it."
Rounds picked up a couple of lead pencils from the desk and took my hand
in his. He told me to close my fist and then placed one pencil lengthwise
so that an end of it was between my first and second finger and
the rubber-tipped end lay across my wrist. The other pencil he thrust
crosswise so that the pointed end stuck out between the second and third
finger and the blunt end between the index finger and thumb.

"There you have it," he said.

"That's how I held the little devil. Now grip hard and try to crush the
pencils and you'll have something of the same sensation as I had. Holding
it thus, I could feel its head jerking this way and that, violently,
and its tail, long and lithe, lashing at my wrist. The little claws
were trying to tear, but they were evidently softish.

I could hear, or thought I could, the snap of its little jaws.
It was about the nastiest sensation that I ever experienced.

I don't know why I thought that it was venomous, but I did. I tried
to smash the thing in my hand--tried again and again, and I have a good
grip--but might just as well have tried to crush a piece of wire. There
was no give to it. It tried to wriggle backwards but I had it under its
jaws.
So there we were: it wriggling, writhing and lashing and me laying there
holding it at arms length.

I felt the sweat start on me and the hair at the nap of my neck raise
up, and I did some quick and complicated thinking. Of course, I
dared not throw it away, but I got to my feet and as I did so, tried to
bend its head backwards against the stone floor.
But the head slipped sideways. I called on Somerfield for a light
then, and he struck one hurriedly and it went out immediately. All that
I saw was that the thing was white and had a triangular shaped
head.

"Somehow I ran against Somerfield before he got another match struck
and he swore at me, saying that I had cut him.

I knew that I had touched him with my outstretched hand that held
the beast.

I drew back my hand a little and remembered afterwards that I then
felt a slight, elastic resistance as if the thing that I held had
caught on to something, as it had before to my blanket.

Afterwards I found that the thing had gotten Somerfield's neck. As he
struck another match, I saw the low place in the wall and flung
the thing away with a quick jerk.

You know the kind of a motion you'd make getting rid of some unseen
noxious thing like that.

That's how I never really saw the beast and can only conjecture
what it was like from the feel of it.

"On Somerfield's neck, just below the angle of the jaw, was a
clean-cut little oval place about half an inch in length.

It did not bleed much, but it seemed to pain him a lot.

He maintained that the thing was some kind of rodent.

Anyway we put a little chewed tobacco on the place and, after awhile,
tried to sleep again.

We didn't do much good at it, neither of us.

He was tossing and grumbling like a man with the toothache.

"Next morning the bitten place had swollen up to the size of an apple
and was a greenish yellow color. He was feeling sick and a bit feverish,
so I made him comfortable after looking around to see whether there was
anything to harm him in the courtyard, and went to hunt water. I remember
that I gave the head of the idol a kick with the flat of my foot
for spite, as I passed it.

Like a kid, that was, wasn't it? Now I was running back and forth all the
morning with the canteen, for he drank a terrible quantity.

His eyes grew bright, too, and his skin flushed. Towards noon, he began to
talk wild, imagining that he was at home. Then I judged it best to let him
stay there in the temple where he was, so to speak, corraled.

Coming back shortly after from one water-hunting trip, I heard singing,
and, looking over the wall, saw him sitting on the slab in front of the
idol. He must have fancied that he had his kids before him for he was
beating time with his hands and snapping his fingers and thumbs
and singing:
'London bridge is fallen down, Fallen down, fallen down.'

"It was rotten to hear that out there, but I was halfway glad to see him
that way, knowing that he wasn't miserable.

After a little, he quit babbling and took more water; emptied the
canteen, in fact, so back I had to start for more.

"Returning, I found things changed. He was going around, crouched like
a hunting Indian, peering here and there, behind the idol then
across to the head as if seeking some one.

He had the _facon_ in his hand.

'Rounds stabbed me,' he was saying.

'It was Rounds, damn him, that killed me.' Over and over again he
said that. He was talking to invisible people, creatures of his
mad brain.

One would have thought, if one had not seen, that the temple court
was crowded with spectators.

Then he rose to his feet and, with the knife held close to his
breast, began walking round and round as if seeking an outlet.

He passed me once, he on one side of the wall and I on the other,
and he looked me square in the eye, but never saw me.

So round and round he went with long strides, knees bent and heels
never touching the ground.

He eyes were fixed and staring and his teeth clenched. Now and then he
made long, slashing stabs in the air with the _facon_.

"Suddenly he saw me, and there was a change. The blood lust was in his
eyes.

He was standing on the slab in front of the idol, then made a great leap
and started for the broken wall where I was. I saw then that the lump on
his neck had swollen to the size of a big goitre. His whole body was
a-quiver. There was an animal-like celerity in his movements that made
me shudder. Then I knew that I dared not let him get on the same side of
the wall as me.

But he leaped at the gap from a distance that I would have thought no
human could compass, and hung on to the wall with one arm over. He
snarled like an animal. Then I smashed him over the head with the canteen,
gripping the strap with my right hand.
He fell back with the force of the blow, but immediately came at the gap
again, then changed his mind and went to tearing around the chamber with
great leaps.

He was a panther newly caged. He sprang on to the head of the idol and from
that to the pedestal, and then to the slab in front of it. Then he
went across and across the floor, sometimes screaming and yelling,
and then again moaning and groaning.

One side of his face was all bloody where I had smashed it with the
canteen.

Seeing him so, a thing not human, but with all the furtive quickness of
an animal and its strength, too, I felt sorry no more. I hated him
with a wild hate. He was dangerous to me and I had to conquer him.
That's fundamental. So I stood, gripping the strap of the canteen,
watching, waiting. He came at me again, striding and leaping.

That time he got one leg over with both hands gripping the top
stones.

The _facon_ he dropped on my side of the wall, but I had no time to stoop
for it just then. There were other things to do. He was getting
over.

It took some frantic beating with the canteen and he seemed to recover
from the blows quicker than I could get the swing to strike again.

But I beat him down at last, though I saw that he had lots more life
in him than I, with that devil of madness filling him. So, when I saw him
stumble, then recover and begin that running again, I picked up the
knife and leaped over the wall to settle the matter once and for all.
It was an ugly thing to do, but it had to be done and done quickly.

At the root of things it's life against life."
Rounds ceased and fell to filling his pipe. I waited for him to
recommence, but he made as if to leave, but paused a moment at my desk
to pick up and examine a piece of malachite. I felt it incumbent upon
me to say something to relieve the tension that I felt.

"I understand," said I. "It was a horrible necessity. It is a terrible
thing to have to kill a fellow creature."
"That wasn't a fellow creature," he said.

"What I killed was not the partner I knew.

Don't you understand?"

"Yes, I understand," I replied.

Then I asked, "Did you bury him?"
"Bury him? What for? How?" Rounds seemed indignant. "How could I bury
him in a stone-paved court? How could I lift a dead man over a wall chin
high?"
"Of course. Of course," I said. "I had forgotten that. But to us who
lead quiet lives, it seems terrible to leave a dead man unburied."
"Do you feel that way about that mummy you have out there?" he asked,
indicating the museum with his thumb. "If not, why not? But if you
want the story to the bitter end, I dragged him to the only clean
spot in the place, which was that slab in front of the idol.

There I left him, or it. But things take odd turns. By the time I got
back to the Tlinga village, they knew all about it and the priests used
the affair to their own advantage.

Mine was incidental. Yet I did reap some benefit.
According to the priests, I had accepted the whole blessed lizard theory,
or religion or whatever it was, and had sacrificed the unbeliever to the
lizard god. Ista helped things along, I suspect, for with me as a former
mate, there was some fame for her. Anyway, they met and hailed me as a
hero and brought tribute to me. Gold dust. I wanted them to quit their
damned foolishness and tried to explain, but it was no use.

You can't teach a mob to have sense. Well, adios. But remember this:
Don't be too cocksure."

UNDER THE DOME[8]
By WALDO FRANK
(From _the Dial_)

They were two figures under the grey of the Dome--two straight faint
figures of black; they were a man and woman with heads bowed, straight--under
the surge of the Dome.

I
Friday night, when always he broke away in order to pray in the _Schul_,
and when she sat in the shop and had to speak with the customers
who came, these praying hours of Friday night.

_Shabbas_ morning at least he did not go also.--My heart tells me it is
wrong. Lord, forgive me for Esther and for my little girl. Lord, you
know it is for them I do not go to _Schul_ on _Shabbas_ morning.--But by
God, you will keep the store those two hours Friday! Do you hear? By
God, what else have I ever asked you for? Don't you sit around, do nothing
all the day, and aren't Flora's clothes a filth? and hardly if you'll
cook our meals. But this you will do: this you will do! Friday nights.
Lord, why is there no light in Esther? What have I done, Lord? what
have I not done?

She sat in a chair, always, near the side wall: her eyes lay burning
against the cold glare of the gas.

Above her shoulder on the wall was a large sheet of fashions: women
with wasp waists, smirking, rolling: stiff men, all clothes, with little
heads. Under the table--where Meyer sits with his big feet so much to look
at--Flora played, a soiled bundle, with a ball of yarn and a huge
gleaming scizzors.

--No one perhaps comes, and then I do not mind sitting and keeping the
store. I saw a dead horse in the street.--A dead horse, two days dead,
rotting and stiff. Against the grey of the living street, a livid dead
horse: a hot stink was his cold death against the street's clean-ness.
There are two little boys, wrapped in blue coat, blue muffler,
leather caps.

They stand above the gaunt head of the horse and sneer at him.

His flank rises red and huge. His legs are four strokes away from
life. He is dead. The naughty boys pick up bricks. They stand, very close,
above the head of the horse. They hurl down a brick. It strikes the
horse's skull, falls sharp away. They hurl down a brick. It cuts
the swollen nostril, falls soft away. The horse does not mind, the horse
does not hurt. He is dead.

--Go away, you two! Throwing stones at a dead horse! Go away, I say!
How would you like--When one is dead, stones strike one's skull and fall
sharp away, one is moveless. When one is dead, stones strike the soft of
one's throat and fall soft away, one is hurtless. When one is dead one
does not hurt.

She sat and turned her eyes away from her child.

Flora had smear on her face; her hands were grimed with the floor. One
of her stockings was down: her little white knee was going to scrape on
the floor, be black before it was bloody. So--A long shining table
under a cold gas spurt.

A store with clothes and a stove: no place for herself. A row of suits, all
pressed and stiff with Meyer's diligence.

A pile of suits, writhed with the wear of men, soiled, crumpled with traffic
of streets, with bending of bodies in toil, in eating, in loving perhaps.
Grimed living suits. Meyer takes an iron and it steams and it presses
hard, it sucks up the grime. It sucks out the life from the
suit. The suit is stiff and dead, now, ready to go once more over the body
of a man and suck to itself his life.

The automatic bell clangs. There in the open door was a dark tall
woman--customer.

Esther stood, too. She felt she was shorter and less tidy: more beautiful
though.

Two women across the tailor-shop, seeing each other.

"I came for my husband's--for Mr. Breddan's dress suit. Mr. Lanich told
him it would be ready at seven?"

Esther Lanich moved, Sophie Breddan stood. Between slow dark curve, swift
dark stroke of these two women, under a tailor's table the burn of a dirty
child, mumbling intent with scizzors between her soiled frail legs, at
play with loose hair.

"Is this the one?"

The curve and the stroke came near across the table.

"Yes."
Eyes met.--She is tidy and fresh, less beautiful, though, than I. She has
no child. She has a flat with Sun and a swell husband who wears a
swallow-tail and takes her out to parties.

She has a diamond ring, her corsets are sweet. She has things to put
into her time like candies into her mouth, like loved kisses into
my mouth.

She is all new with her smooth skin going below the collar of her
suit.

--She has a child, and she lets her play dirty with scizzors under
a tailor table.

"How much is it?"--After a decent bedtime.

--Does she think I care about this? "Oh, no hurry. Better come in and pay
my--Mr. Lanich. Any time."
The clang of the bell.

Esther is seated. Her grey tilted eyes seem sudden to stand upon the farther
wall of her husband's shop, and to look upon her. Her eyes speak soft
warm words that touch her hair, touch her lips, lie like caressing
fingers upon the soft cloth that lies upon her breast.

--Less beautiful than I, though. My flesh is soft and sweat, it is the
colour of cream. What for? My hair is like an autumn tree gleaming with
sun. I can let it fall through the high channel of my breast against my
stomach that does not bulge but lies soft and low like a cushion of silk.
What for? My eyes see beauty.

What for?

O there is no God.

If there is God, what for?--He will come back and work. He will eat and
work. He is kind and good. What for? When he is excited with love, doesn't
he make an ugly noise with his nose? What else does he make with his
love?--Another like Flora? God forbid. What for?

She did not pull down the wide yellow shade, though it was night. The street
was a ribbon of velvet blackness laid beside the hurting and sharp
brightness of the store. The yellow light was hard like grains of sand
under the quick of her nails. She was afraid of the street. She was hurt
in the store. But the brightness clamped her. She did not move.--O
let no more customers come! "Keep quiet, Flora." I can not move.

--She was clamped.

But the store moved, moved.

There was a black wheel with a gleaming axle--the Sun--that sent light
dimming down its spokes as it spun. From the rim of the wheel where it
was black, bright dust flung away as it spun. The store was a speck of
bright dust. It flung straight. It moved along the velvet path
of the street, touching, not merging with its night. It moved, it moved,
she sat still in its moving. The store caught up with Meyer. He
entered the store. He was there. He was there, scooped up from the
path of the street by the store.

Now her work was over. He was there. The store was a still store, fixed in
a dirty house. Its brightness the spurt of two jets of gas. He was back
from _Schul_.--That is all.

A man with blond hair, flat feet that shuffled, small tender hands.

A man with a mouth gentle, slow; with eyes timid to see. "Come dear: that
is no place."

--Why she lets the child play with my shears!

Tender hands pull Flora from beneath the table. Flora comes blinking,
unprotesting.

Where her father's hands leave off from her, she stays.
She sinks back to the floor. She looks at her little fists from which
the scizzors are gone. She misses hard gleaming steel. She opens
and shuts her fists and looks at them: she cries. But she does not
move.

--Her mother does not move.--Her father does not move. He squats on the
table. His head sways with his thoughts. He knows that Flora will stop--what
can he do?--in perhaps half an hour. It is a weak cry. Grows weaker. He
is used to it. There is work.

He sews. 'A woman of valour who can find? For her price is far above
rubies'--She will stay here, stay here silent. Flora should be in bed.
Who to put his child in bed?

Hard gas-light on her beloved hair? A wither, a wilt--'She is like
the merchant ships; she bringeth her food from afar'--He sews and
rips.--What, Lord, have I left undone? I love my Esther.--He sews.--I love
my little girl. Lord, I fear the Lord--'She looketh well to the
ways of the household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.'--Lighten
me, Lord, give me light. There is my daughter crying, who should
sleep: and my wife sitting, who will not, who will never without
me go home. She is afraid. She says she is afraid. She is sullen
and silent. She is so fair and sweet against my heart. Lord! why
did her hands that held my head speak a lie? and her silent lips
that she let press upon my mouth, why were they lies? Lord, I cannot
understand. Lord, I pray. I must sew bread for Esther and for my
child.
I go to _Schul_ at least once each _Shabbas_, Lord--Do I not fill
the deep ten Penitential Days from _Rosh Ha Shonoh_ to _Yom Ha
Kippurim_ with seeking out of heart?--He sews, he rips. The weeping
of his child is done. Long stitches, here. She has found a chair's
leg to play with.
Her moist fingers clasp at the shrill wood. The wooden chair and
her soft flesh wrestle. Esther sits still. He sews.
'Her children arise, and call her blessed; Her husband also, and
he praiseth her; --Many daughters have done valiantly, But thou
excellest them all.-- Grace is deceitful and beauty is vain; But a
woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands; And let her works praise her
in the gates.'I replied with vigour:

"Do you think I am that sort, that cares for a person only because he has
a little money? Why! that is the very thing I am always preaching
against. If a man was a lord or a millionaire I would not have him if I
loved him not, but I would marry a poor cripple if I loved him. It wasn't
because you owned Five-Bob Downs that I liked you, but because you have a
big heart in which one would have room to get warm, and because you are
true, and because you are kind and big and--" Here I could feel my voice
getting shaky, and being afraid I would make a fool of myself by crying,
I left off.

"Syb, I will try and fix matters up a bit, and will claim you in that
time if I have a home."

"Claim me, home or not, if you are so disposed, but I will make this
condition. Do not tell anyone we are engaged, and remember you are
perfectly free. If you see a woman you like more than me, promise me on
your sacred word that you will have none of those idiotic unjust ideas of
keeping true to me. Promise."

"Yes, I will promise," he said easily, thinking then, no doubt, as many a
one before him has thought, that he would never be called upon to fulfil
his word.

"I will promise in return that I will not look at another man in a
matrimonial way until the four years are up, so you need not he jealous
and worry yourself; for, Hal, you can trust me, can you not?"

Taking my hand in his and looking at me with a world of love in his eyes,
which moved me in spite of myself, he said:

"I could trust you in every way to the end of the world."

"Thank you, Harold. What we have said is agreed upon--that is, of course,
as things appear now: if anything turns up to disturb this arrangement it
is not irrevocable in the least degree, and we can lay out more suitable
plans. Four years will not be long, and I will be more sensible at the
end of that time--that is, of course, if I ever have any sense. We will
not write or have any communication, so you will be perfectly free if you
see anyone you like better than me to go in and win. Do you agree?"

"Certainly; any little thing like that you can settle according to your
fancy. I'm set up as long as I get you one way or another, that's all I
want. It was a bit tough being cleared out from all the old ways, but if
I have you to stand by me it will be a great start. Say what you said
last Sunday. again. Syb, say you will be my wife."

I had expected him to put it in that way, and believing in doing all or
nothing, had laid out that I would put my hand in his and promise what he
asked. But now the word wife finished me up. I was very fond of
Harold--fond to such an extent that had I a fortune I would gladly have
given it all to him: I felt capable of giving him a life of servitude,
but I loved him--big, manly, lovable, wholesome Harold--from the crown of
his head to the sole of his foot he was good in my sight, but lacking in
that power over me which would make me desirous of being the mother of
his children.

As for explaining my feelings to him--ha! He would laughingly call them
one of my funny little whims. With his orthodox, practical, plain,
commonsense views of these things, he would not understand me. What was
there to understand? Only that I was queer and different from other
women. But he was waiting for me to speak. I had put my hand to the
plough and could not turn back. I could not use the word wife, but I put
my hand in his, looked at him steadily, and said--

"Harold. I meant what I said last Sunday. If you want me--if I am of any
use to you--I will marry you when I attain my majority."

He was satisfied.


He bade us good-bye early that afternoon, as he intended departing from
Five-Bob when the morrow was young, and had two or three little matters
to attend to previous to his departure.

I accompanied him a little way, he walking and leading his horse. We
parted beneath the old willow-tree.

"Good-bye, Harold. I mean all I have said."

I turned my face upwards; he stooped and kissed me once--only once--one
light, gentle, diffident kiss. He looked at me long and intently without
saying a word, then mounted his horse, raised his hat, and rode away.

I watched him depart along the white dusty road, looking like a long
snake in the glare of the summer sun, until it and he who travelled
thereon disappeared among the messmate- and hickory-trees forming the
horizon.

I stood gazing at the hills in the distance on which the blue dreaming
mists of evening were gathering, until tears stole down my cheeks.

I was not given to weeping. What brought them? I hardly knew. It was not
because Harold was leaving, though I would miss him much. Was it because
I was disappointed in love? I persuaded myself that. I loved Harold as
much as I could ever love anyone, and I could not forsake him now that he
needed me. But, but, but, I did not want to marry, and I wished that
Harold had asked anything of me but that, because--because, I don't know
what, and presently felt ashamed for being such a selfish coward that I
grudged to make a little sacrifice of my own inclinations to help a
brother through life.


"I used to feel sure that Harry meant to come up to the scratch, but I
suppose he's had plenty to keep him going lately without bothering his
head about a youngster in short frocks and a pigtail," remarked uncle
Jay-Jay that night.


"Well, Sybylla, poor Harry has gone: we will all--even you included--miss
him very much, I am sure. I used to think that he cared for you. It may
be that he has not spoken to us on account of his financial failure, and
it may be that I made a mistake," said aunt Helen when she was bidding me
good night.

I held my peace.


CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX


Boast Not Thyself of Tomorrow


We felt the loss of the Beechams very, very much. It was sad to think of
Five-Bob--pleasant, hospitable Five-Bob--as shut up, with no one but a
solitary caretaker there pending the settling of the Beecham insolvency;
with flowers running to seed unheeded in the wide old garden, grass
yellowing on the lawns, fruit wasting in wain-loads in the great orchard,
kennels, stables, fowl-houses, and cow-yards empty and deserted. But more
than all, we missed the quiet, sunburnt, gentlemanly, young giant whose
pleasant countenance and strapping figure were always welcome at
Caddagat.

Fortunately, Christmas preparations gave us no rest for the soles of our
feet, and thus we had little time to moon about such things: in addition,
uncle Jay-Jay was preparing for a trip, and fussed so that the whole
place was kept in a state of ferment.

We had fun, feasting, and company to no end on Christmas Day. There were
bank clerks and young fellows out of offices from Gool-Gool, jackeroos
and governesses in great force from neighbouring holdings, and we had a
merry time.

On Boxing Day uncle Jay-Jay set out on a tour to New Zealand, intending
to combine business with pleasure, as he meant to bring back some stud
stock if he could make a satisfactory bargain. Boxing Day had fallen on a
Saturday that year, and the last of our guests departed on Sunday
morning. It was the first time we had had any quietude for many weeks, so
in the afternoon I went out to swing in my hammock and meditate upon
things in general. Taking with me a bountiful supply of figs, apricots,
and mulberries, I laid myself out for a deal of enjoyment in the cool
dense shade under the leafy kurrajong- and cedar-trees.

To begin with, Harold Beecham was gone, and I missed him at every turn. I
need not worry about being engaged to be married, as four years was a
long, long time. Before that Harold might take a fancy to someone else,
and leave me free; or he might die, or I might die, or we both might die,
or fly, or cry, or sigh, or do one thing or another, and in the meantime
that was not the only thing to occupy my mind: I had much to contemplate
with joyful anticipation.

Towards the end of February a great shooting and camping party, organized
by grannie, was to take place. Aunt Helen, grannie, Frank Hawden, myself,
and a number of other ladies and gentlemen, were going to have ten days
or a fortnight in tents among the blue hills in the distance, which held
many treasures in the shape of lyrebirds, musk, ferns, and such scenery
as would make the thing perfection. After this auntie and I were to have
our three months' holiday in Sydney, where, with Everard Grey in the
capacity of showman, we were to see everything from Manly to Parramatta,
the Cyclorama to the Zoo, the theatres to the churches, the restaurants
to the jails, and from Anthony Hordern's to Paddy's Market. Who knows
what might happen then? Everard had promised to have my talents tested by
good judges. Might it not be possible for me to attain one of my
ambitions--enter the musical profession? joyful dream! Might I not be able
to yet assist Harold in another way than matrimony?

Yes, life was a pleasant thing to me now. I forgot all my wild
unattainable ambitions in the little pleasures of everyday life. Such a
thing as writing never entered my head. I occasionally dreamt out a
little yarn which, had it appeared on paper, would have brimmed over with
pleasure and love--in fact, have been redolent of life as I found it. It
was nice to live in comfort, and among ladies and gentlemen--people who
knew how to conduct themselves properly, and who paid one every attention
without a bit of fear of being twitted with "laying the jam on".

I ate another fig and apricot, a mulberry or two, and was interrupted in
the perusal of my book by the clatter of galloping hoofs approaching
along the road. I climbed on to the fence to see who it could be who was
coming at such a breakneck pace. He pulled the rein opposite me, and I
recognized a man from Dogtrap. He was in his shirt-sleeves; his horse
was all in a lather, and its scarlet nostrils were wide open, and its
sides heaving rapidly.

"I say, miss, hunt up the men quickly, will you?" he said hurriedly.
"There's a tremenjous fire on Wyambeet, and we're short-handed. I'm
goin' on to knock them up at Bimbalong."

"Hold hard," I replied. "We haven't a man on the place, only Joe
Slocombe, and I heard him say he would ride down the river and see what
the smoke was about; so he will be there. Mr Hawden and the others have
gone out for the day. You go back to the fire at once; I'll rouse them up
at Birribalong."

"Right you are, miss. Here's a couple of letters. My old moke
flung a shoe and went dead lame at Dogtrap; an' wile I was saddlun another,
Mrs Butler stuffed 'em in me pocket."

He tossed them over the fence, and, wheeling his mount, galloped the way
he had come. The letters fell, address upwards, on the ground--one to
myself and one to grannie, both in my mother's handwriting. I left them
where they lay. The main substance of mother's letters to me was a hope
that I was a better girl to my grannie than I had been to her--a sentiment
which did not interest me.

"Where are you off to?" inquired grannie, as I rushed through the house.

I explained.

"What horse are you going to take?"

"Old Tadpole. He's the only one available."

"Well, you be careful and don't push him too quickly up that pinch by
Flea Creek, or he might drop dead with you. He's so fat and old."

"All right," I replied, snatching a bridle and running up the orchard,
where old Tadpole had been left in case of emergency. I clapped a
side-saddle on his back, a hat on my head, jumped on just as I was, and
galloped for my life in the direction of Bimbalong, seven miles distant.
I eased my horse a little going up Flea Creek pinch, but with this delay
reached my destination in half an hour, and sent the men galloping in the
direction of the fire. I lingered for afternoon tea, and returned at my
leisure.

It was sundown when I got in sight of Caddagat. Knowing the men would not
be home for some time, I rode across the paddock to yard the cows. I
drove them home and penned the calves, unsaddled my horse and returned
him to the orchard, then stood upon the hillside and enjoyed the scene.
It had been a fearfully hot day, with a blasting, drought-breathed wind;
but the wind had dropped to sleep with the sunlight, and now the air had
cooled. Blue smoke wreathed hill and hollow like a beauteous veil. I had
traversed drought-baked land that afternoon, but in the immediate
vicinity of Caddagat house there was no evidence of an unkind season.
Irrigation had draped the place with beauty, and I stood ankle-deep in
clover. Oh, how I loved the old irregularly built house, with here and
there a patch of its low iron roof peeping out of a mass of greenery,
flowers, and fruit--the place where I was born--home! Save for the murmur
of the creek, the evening was wrapped in silence--sweet-breathed,
balmy-browed, summer quietude. I stretched out my hand and stained my
fingers, next my lips and teeth, with the sweet dark fruit of a
mulberry-tree beside me. The shadows deepened; I picked up my saddle,
and, carrying it housewards, put it in its place in the harness-room
among the fig- and apricot-trees--laden to breaking point with ripe and
ripening fruit. The two servant girls had departed on their Christmas
holiday that morning, so grannie and auntie were the only members of the
family at home. I could not see or hear them anywhere, so, presuming they
were out walking, I washed my hands, lit a lamp, and sat down to my tea,
where it had been left for me on the dining-table. I remembered--wonderful
aberration from my usual thoughtlessness--that the book I had left in the
hammock had a beautiful cover which the dew would spoil, so I left my tea
to bring it in. Two little white squares struck my eye in the gathering
dusk. I picked them up also, and, bringing them to the light, opened the
one addressed to me, and read:


No doubt what I have to write will not be very palatable to you; but it
is time you gave up pleasuring and began to meet the responsibilities of
life. Your father is lazier if anything, and drinks more than ever. He
has got himself into great debt and difficulties, and would have been
sold off again but for Peter M'Swat. You will remember Peter M'Swat? Well,
he has been good enough to lend your father 500 pounds at 4 per cent,
which means 20 pounds per year interest. Your father would have no more
idea of meeting this amount than a cat would have. But now I am coming
to the part of the matter which concerns you. Out of friendship to your
father, Mr M'Swat is good enough to accept your services as governess to
his children, in lieu of interest on the money. I have told him you will
be in Yarnung In Friday the 8th of January 1897, where he will meet you.
Be careful to remember the date. I am sorry I could not give you more
notice; but he wants his children to commence school as soon as possible,
and he deserves every consideration in the matter. Perhaps you will not
find it as pleasant as Caddagat; but he has been very good, and offers
you a fair number of holidays, and what he will give you is equal to
20 pounds. That is a lot in these times, when he could easily get so many
better girls than you are in every way for half the money, and make your
father pay the interest, and thereby be 10 pounds in pocket. You will have
to help Mrs M'Swat with the work and sewing; but that will do you good,
and I hope you will try hard to give every satisfaction. I have also
written to your grandmother.


That letter wiped away ever vestige of my appetite for the dainties
before me. M'Swat's! Send--me--to M'Swat's! I could not believe it! It
must be a nightmare! M'Swat's!

Certainly, I had never been there; but all those who had gave graphic
descriptions of the total ignorance of Mrs M'Swat. Why, the place was
quite tabooed on account of its squalor and dirt!

The steel of my mother's letter entered my soul. Why had she not
expressed a little regret at the thing she was imposing on me? Instead,
there was a note of satisfaction running through her letter that she was
able to put an end to my pleasant life at Caddagat. She always seemed to
grudge me any pleasure. I bitterly put it down as accruing from the curse
of ugliness, as, when mentioning Gertie, it was ever, "I have let Gertie
go to such and such an entertainment. We could not very well afford it,
but the poor little girl does not have many pleasures for her years." I
was smaller than Gertie, and only eleven months older; but to me it was
"You must think of something besides pleasure."

The lot of ugly girls is not joyful, and they must be possessed of
natures very absurdly sanguine indeed ever to hope for any enjoyment in
life.

It was cruel, base, horrible of my mother to send me to M'Swat's. I would
not go--not for 50 pounds a day! I would not go! I would not! not for any
consideration.

I stamped about in a fever of impatience until grannie appeared, when I
handed both letters to her, and breathlessly awaited her verdict.

"Well, child, what do you say?"

"Say? I won't go! I can't! I won't! Oh, grannie, don't send me there--I
would rather die."

"My dear child, I would not he willing to part with you under any
circumstances, but I cannot interfere between a mother and her child. I
would not have allowed any one to do it with me, and believe in acting
the same towards any other mother, even though she is my own daughter.
However, there is time to get a reply before you would have to start, so
I will write and see what can be done."

The dear old lady, with her prompt businesslike propensities, sat down
and wrote there and then. I wrote also--pleaded with my mother against her
decree, begged her to leave me at Caddagat, and assured her I could never
succeed at M'Swat's.

I did not sleep that night, so arose betimes to await the first
traveller, whom I asked to post the letters.

We got an answer to them sooner than we expected--at least grannie did.
Mother did not deign to write to me, but in her letter to grannie I was
described as an abominably selfish creature, who would not consider her
little brothers and sisters. I would never be any good; all I thought of
was idleness and ease. Most decidedly I could not get out of going to
M'Swat's, as mother had given her word.

"I am sorry for you," said grannie, "but it cannot be helped. You can
stay there for two or three years, and then I can have you here again."

I was inconsolable, and would not listen to reason. Ah! that uncle
Jay-Jay had been at home to rescue me from this. Then aunt Helen brought
her arguments to bear upon me, and persuaded me to think it was necessary
for the benefit of my little brothers and sisters that I should take up
this burden, which I knew would be too much for me.

It was a great wrench to be torn away from Caddagat--from refinement and
comfort--from home! As the days till my departure melted away, how I
wished that it were possible to set one's weight against the grim wheel
of time and turn it back! Nights I did not sleep, but drenched my pillow
with tears. Ah, it was hard to leave grannie and aunt Helen, whom I
worshipped, and turn my back on Caddagat!

I suppose it is only a fancy born of the wild deep love I bear it, but to
me the flowers seem to smell more sweetly there; and the shadows, how
they creep and curl! oh, so softly and caressingly around the quaint old
place, as the great sun sets amid the blue peaks; and the never-ceasing
rush of the crystal fern-banked stream--I see and hear it now, and the
sinking sun as it turns to a sheet of flame the mirror hanging in the
backyard in the laundry veranda, before which the station hands were wont
to comb and wash themselves. Oh, the memories that crowd upon me!
Methinks I can smell the roses that clamber up the veranda posts and peep
over the garden gate. As I write my eyes grow misty, so that I cannot see
the paper.

The day for my departure arrived--hot, 110 degrees in the shade. It was a
Wednesday afternoon. Frank Hawden was to take me as far as Gool-Gool that
evening, and see me on to the coach next day. I would arrive in Yarnung
about twelve or one o'clock on Thursday night, where, according to
arrangement, Mr M'Swat would be waiting to take me to a hotel, thence to
his home next day.

My trunks and other belongings were stowed in the buggy, to which the fat
horses were harnessed. They stood beneath the dense shade of a splendid
kurrajong, and lazily flicked the flies off themselves while Frank Hawden
held the reins and waited for me.

I rushed frantically round the house taking a last look at nooks and
pictures dear to me, and then aunt Helen pressed my hand and kissed me,
saying:

"The house will be lonely without you, but you must brighten up, and I'm
sure you will not find things half as bad as you expect them."

I looked back as I went out the front gate, and saw her throw herself
into a chair on the veranda and cover her face with her hands. My
beautiful noble aunt Helen! I hope she missed me just a little, felt just
one pang of parting, for I have not got over that parting yet.

Grannie gave me a warm embrace and many kisses. I climbed on to the front
seat of the buggy beside my escort, he whipped the horses--a cloud of
dust, a whirr of wheels, and we were gone--gone from Caddagat!

We crossed the singing stream: on either bank great bushes of
blackthorn--last native flower of the season--put forth their wealth of
magnificent creamy bloom, its rich perfume floating far on the hot summer
air. How the sunlight blazed and danced and flickered on the familiar and
dearly loved landscape! Over a rise, and the house was lost to view, then
good-bye to the crystal creek. The trees of Five-Bob Downs came within
eye-range far away on our left. What merry nights I had spent there amid
music, flowers, youth, light, love, and summer warmth, when the tide of
life seemed full! Where now was Harold Beecham and the thirty or more
station hands, who but one short month before had come and gone at his
bidding, hailing him boss?

It was all over! My pleasant life at Caddagat was going into the past,
fading as the hills which surrounded it were melting into a hazy line of
blue.


CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN


My Journey


The coach was a big vehicle, something after the style of a bus, the tilt
and seats running parallel with the wheels. At the rear end, instead of a
door, was a great tail-board, on the principle of a spring-cart. This was
let down, and, after we scrambled over it into our seats, it was fixed
half-mast, all the luggage piled thereon, and firmly roped into position.
When this was completed, to any one on the ground only the heads of
passengers were visible above the pile. Had the coach capsized we would
have been in a nice fix, as the only means of exit was by crawling up
through the back of the box-seat, which rose breast-high--an awkward feat.

Frank Hawden and I parted good friends. I leant out and waved my
handkerchief, until a bend of the road hid him from sight.

It was noon, the thermometer registered 112 degrees in the shade, and the
dust was simply awful. It rose in such thick grey clouds that often it
was impossible to discern the team of five which pulled us, and there was
danger of colliding with passing vehicles. We were very much crowded,
there being sixteen passengers. When we settled down and got started, I
discovered that I was the only representative of my sex, and that I was
sandwiched between a perky youth in his teens and a Chinaman, while a
black fellow and a man with a red beard sat opposite. A member of
Parliament, farther up the seat, who had been patronizing New Year's Day
races in a portion of his electorate, bawled loudly to his companion
about "the doin's of the 'Ouse". In the perky youth I discovered a
professional jockey; and when he found that I was a daughter of Dick
Melvyn, the one-time great horse-breeder, he became very friendly. He
gave me a couple of apples out of his tin box under the seat, from whence
he also produced his whip for my inspection, and was good enough to say:

"If you can't stand the stink of that bloomin' chow, miss, just change
seats with me. I've knocked about, so that I can easy stand some tough
smells without much inconvenience."

I cautioned him to talk lower for fear of hurting the Chinaman's
feelings: this amused him immensely. He laughed very much, and, leaning
over to the red-bearded man, repeated the joke:

"I say, this young lady is afraid I might hurt the chow's feelin's.
Golly! Fancy a bloomin' chow havin' any!"

The other man also thought it a great joke. I changed seats with the
jockey, which put me beside a young gentleman of a literary turn of mind,
with whom I had some conversation about books when the dust, rumble of
wheels, and turf talk of my other neighbour permitted. They were all very
kind to me--gave me fruit, procured me drinks of water, and took turns in
nursing a precious hat, for which, on account of the crush, no safe place
could be found among the other luggage.

Before we had gone half our journey the horses knocked up. All the men
were forced to walk up hills for miles and miles in the dust and heat,
which did not conduce to their amiability, and many and caustic were the
remarks and jokes made upon the driver. He wore out two whips upon his
team, until the labour and excessive heat sent the perspiration rolling
in rivulets down his face, leaving muddy tracks in the thick coating of
dust there. The jockey assisted with his loaded instrument of trade, some
of the passengers thrashed with sticks, and all swore under their breath,
while a passing bullock-driver used his whip with such deadly effect,
that the sweat which poured off the poor beasts was mingled with blood.

"Why the deuce don't you have proper horses?" demanded the red-bearded
passenger.

The man explained that a ministerial party had chartered his best team to
go on a tour of inspection to a mine; a brother coachman had been "stuck
up" for horses, and borrowed a couple from him, whereupon he was forced
to do with animals which had been turned out for a spell, and the heat
and overloading accounted for a good part of the contretemps. However, we
managed to catch our train, but had to rush for it without waiting for
refreshments. Nice articles we looked--our hair grey with dust, and our
faces grimy. The men took charge of me as carefully as though I had been
specially consigned to their care. One procured my ticket, another
secured me a scat, while a third took charge of my luggage; and they were
just as thoughtful when we had to change trains. Off we went. Grannie had
packed me quite a large box full of dainties. I produced it, the men
provided drinks, and we had quite a pleasant picnic, with all the windows
down to catch a little air.

I love the rush and roar of the train, and wished on this occasion that
it might go on and on for over, never giving me time to think or stop.
But, alas, at 1.20 we pulled up at Yarnung, where a man came inquiring
for a young lady named Melvyn. My fellow passengers collected my
belongings, and I got out.

"Good-bye, gentlemen; thank you very much for your kindness."

"Good-bye, miss; you're welcome. Some of us might meet again yet. Ta-ta!"

A shriek, a jerk, and the great train rushed on into the night, leaving
me there on the insignificant little platform, feeling how lonely and
unhappy, no one knew or cared.

Mr M'Swat shouldered most of my luggage, I took the remainder, and we
trudged off in the dark without a word on either side. The publican had
given M'Swat the key, so that we might enter without disturbing the
household, and he escorted me to a bedroom, where I tumbled into bed with
expedition.


CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT


To Life


It is indelibly imprinted on my memory in a manner which royal joy, fame,
pleasure, and excitement beyond the dream of poets could never efface,
not though I should be cursed with a life of five-score years. I will
paint it truthfully--letter for letter as it was.

It was twenty-six miles from Yarnung to Barney's Gap, as M'Swat's place
was named. He had brought a light wagonette and pair to convey me
thither.

As we drove along, I quite liked my master. Of course, we were of calibre
too totally unlike ever to be congenial companions, but I appreciated his
sound common sense in the little matters within his range, and his
bluntly straightforward, fairly good-natured, manner. He was an utterly
ignorant man, with small ideas according to the sphere which he fitted,
and which fitted him; but he was "a man for a' that, an' a' that".

He and my father had been boys together. Years and years ago M'Swat's
father had been blacksmith on my father's station, and the little boys
had played together, and, in spite of their then difference in station,
had formed a friendship which lived and bore fruit at this hour. I wished
that their youthful relations had been inimical, not friendly.

We left the pub in Yarnung at nine, and arrived at our destination
somewhere about two o'clock in the afternoon.

I had waxed quite cheerful, and began to look upon the situation in a
sensible light. It was necessary that I should stand up to the guns of
life at one time or another, and why not now? M'Swat's might not be so
bad after all. Even if they were dirty, they would surely be willing to
improve if I exercised tact in introducing a few measures. I was not
afraid of work, and would do many things. But all these ideas were
knocked on the head, like a dairyman's surplus calves, when on entering
Barney's Gap we descended a rough road to the house, which was built in a
narrow gully between two steep stony hills, which, destitute of grass,
rose like grim walls of rock, imparting a desolate and prison-like
aspect.

Six dogs, two pet lambs, two or three pigs, about twenty fowls, eight
children which seemed a dozen, and Mrs M'Swat bundled out through the
back door at our approach. Those children, not through poverty--M'Swat
made a boast of his substantial banking account--but on account of
ignorance and slatternliness, were the dirtiest urchins I have ever seen,
and were so ragged that those parts of them which should have been
covered were exposed to view. The majority of them had red hair and wide
hanging-open mouths. Mrs M'Swat was a great, fat, ignorant,
pleasant-looking woman, shockingly dirty and untidy. Her tremendous,
flabby, stockingless ankles bulged over her unlaced hobnailed boots; her
dress was torn and unbuttoned at the throat, displaying one of the
dirtiest necks I have seen. It did not seem to worry her that the infant
she hold under her arm like a roll of cloth howled killingly, while the
other little ones clung to her skirts, attempting to hide their heads in
its folds like so many emus. She greeted me with a smacking kiss,
consigned the baby to the charge of the eldest child, a big girl of
fourteen, and seizing upon my trunks as though they were feather-weight,
with heavy clodhopping step disappeared into the house with them.
Returning, she invited me to enter, and following in her wake, I was
followed by the children through the dirtiest passage into the dirtiest
room, to sit upon the dirtiest chair, to gaze upon the other dirtiest
furniture of which I have ever heard. One wild horrified glance at the
dirt, squalor, and total benightedness that met me on every side, and I
trembled in every limb with suppressed emotion and the frantic longing to
get back to Caddagat which possessed me. One instant showed me that I
could never, never live here.

"Have ye had yer dinner?" my future mistress inquired in a rough
uncultivated voice. I replied in the negative.

"Sure, ye'll be dyin' of hunger; but I'll have it in a twinklin'."

She threw a crumpled and disgustingly filthy doth three-cornered ways on
to the dusty table and clapped thereon a couple of dirty knives and
forks, a pair of cracked plates, two poley cups and chipped saucers. Next
came a plate of salt meat, red with saltpetre, and another of dark, dry,
sodden bread. She then disappeared to the kitchen to make the tea, and
during her absence two of the little boys commenced to fight. One
clutched the tablecloth, and over went the whole display with a
bang--meat-dish broken, and meat on the dusty floor; while the cats and
fowls, ever on the alert for such occurrences, made the most of their
opportunities. Mrs M'Swat returned carrying the tea, which was spilling
by the way. She gave those boys each a clout on the head which dispersed
them roaring like the proverbial town bull, and alarmed me for the safety
of their ear-drums. I wondered if their mother was aware of their having
ear-drums. She grabbed the meat, and wiping it on her greasy apron,
carried it around in her hand until she found a plate for it, and by that
time the children had collected the other things. A cup was broken, and
another, also a poley, was put in its stead.

Mr M'Swat now appeared, and after taking a nip out of a rum bottle which
he produced from a cupboard in the corner, he invited me to sit up to
dinner.

There was no milk. M'Swat went in entirely for sheep, keeping only a few
cows for domestic purposes: these, on account of the drought, had been
dry for some months. Mrs M'Swat apologized for the lack of sugar, stating
she was quite out of it and had forgotten to send for a fresh supply.

"You damned fool, to miss such a chance wen I was goin' to town with the
wagonette! I mightn't be groin' in again for munce [months]. But sugar
don't count much. Them as can't do without a useless luxury like that for
a spell will never make much of a show at gettin' on in the wu-r-r-r-1d,"
concluded Mr M'Swat, sententiously.

The children sat in a row and, with mouths open and interest in their big
wondering eyes, gazed at me unwinkingly till I felt I must rush away
somewhere and shriek to relieve the feeling of overstrained hysteria
which was overcoming me. I contained myself sufficiently, however, to ask
if this was all the family.

"All but Peter. Where's Peter, Mary Ann?"

"He went to the Red Hill to look after some sheep, and won't be back till
dark."

"Peter's growed up," remarked one little boy, with evident pride in this
member of the family.

"Yes; Peter's twenty-one, and hes a mustatche and shaves," said the
eldest girl, in a manner indicating that she expected me to be struck
dumb with surprise.

"She'll be surprised wen she sees Peter," said a little girl in an
audible whisper.

Mrs M'Swat vouchsafed the information that three had died between Peter
and Lizer, and this was how the absent son came to be so much older than
his brothers and sisters.

"So you have had twelve children?" I said.

"Yes," she replied, laughing fatly, as though it were a joke.

"The boys found a bees' nest in a tree an' have been robbin' it the
smornin'," continued Mrs M'Swat.

"Yes; we have ample exemplification of that," I responded. It was honey
here and honey there and honey everywhere. It was one of the many
varieties of dirt on the horrible foul-smelling tablecloth. It was on the
floor, the door, the chairs, the children's heads, and the cups. Mrs
M'Swat remarked contentedly that it always took a couple of days to wear
"off of" things.

After "dinner" I asked for a bottle of ink and some paper, and scrawled a
few lines to grannie and my mother, merely reporting my safe arrival at
my destination. I determined to take time to collect my thoughts before
petitioning for release from Barney's Gap.

I requested my mistress to show me where I was to sleep, and she
conducted me to a fairly respectable little bedroom, of which I was to be
sole occupant, unless I felt lonely and would like Rose Jane to sleep
with me. I looked at pretty, soft-eyed, dirty little Rose Jane, and
assured her kind-hearted mother I would not be the least lonely, as the
sickening despairing loneliness which filled my heart was not of a nature
to be cured by having as a bedmate a frowzy wild child.

Upon being left alone I barred my door and threw myself on the bed to
cry--weep wild hot tears that scalded my cheeks, and sobs that shook my
whole frame and gave me a violent pain in the head.

Oh, how coarse and grating were the sounds to be heard around me! Lack,
nay, not lack, but utter freedom from the first instincts of cultivation,
was to be heard even in the great heavy footfalls and the rasping sharp
voices which fell on my ears. So different had I been listening in a room
at Caddagat to my grannie's brisk pleasant voice, or to my aunt Helen's
low refined accents; and I am such a one to see and feel these
differences.

However, I pulled together in a little while, and called myself a fool
for crying. I would write to grannie and mother explaining matters, and I
felt sure they would heed me, as they had no idea what the place was
like. I would have only a little while to wait patiently, then I would be
among all the pleasures of Caddagat again; and how I would revel in them,
more than ever, after a taste of a place like this, for it was worse than
I had imagined it could be, even in the nightmares which had haunted me
concerning it before leaving Caddagat.

The house was of slabs, unlimed, and with very low iron roof, and having
no sign of a tree near it, the heat was unendurable. It was reflected
from the rocks on either side, and concentrated in this spot like an
oven, being 122 degrees in the veranda now. I wondered why M'Swat had
built in such a hole, but it appears it was the nearness of the point to
water which recommended it to his judgment.

With the comforting idea that I would not have long to bear this, I
bathed my eyes, and walked away from the house to try and find a cooler
spot. The children saw me depart but not return, to judge from a
discussion of myself which I heard in the dining-room, which adjoined my
bed-chamber.

Peter came home, and the children clustered around to tell the news.

"Did she come?"

"Yes."

"Wot's she like?"

"Oh, a rale little bit of a thing, not as big as Lizer!

"And, Peter, she hes teeny little hands, as wite as snow, like that woman
in the picter ma got off of the tea."

"Yes, Peter," chimed in another voice; "and her feet are that little that
she don't make no nise wen she walks."

"It ain't only becos her feet are little, but cos she's got them beautiful
shoes like wot's in picters," said another.

"Her hair is tied with two great junks of ribbing, one up on her head an'
another near the bottom; better than that bit er red ribbing wot Lizer
keeps in the box agin the time she might go to town some day."

"Yes," said the voice of Mrs M'Swat, "her hair is near to her knees, and
a plait as thick as yer arm; and wen she writ a couple of letters in a
minute, you could scarce see her hand move it was that wonderful quick;
and she uses them big words wot you couldn't understand without
bein' eddicated."

"She has tree brooches, and a necktie better than your best one wots you
keeps to go seeing Susie Duffy in," and Lizer giggled slyly.

"You shut up about Susie Duffy, or I'll whack yuz up aside of the ear,"
said Peter angrily.

"She ain't like ma. She's fat up here, and goes in like she'd break in
the middle, Peter."

"Great scissors! she must be a flyer," said Peter. I'll bet she'll make
you sit up, Jimmy."

"I'll make her sit up," retorted Jimmy, who came next to Lizer.--She
thinks she's a toff, but she's only old Melvyn's darter, that pa has
to give money to."

"Peter," said another, "her face ain't got them freckles on like yours,
and it ain't dark like Lizer's. It's reel wite, and pinky round here."

"I bet she won't make me knuckle down to her, no matter wot colour she
is," returned Peter, in a surly tone.

No doubt it was this idea which later in the afternoon induced him to
swagger forward to shake hands with me with a flash insolent leer on his
face. I took pains to be especially nice to him, treating him with
deference, and making remarks upon the extreme heat of the weather with
such pleasantness that he was nonplussed, and looked relieved when able
to escape. I smiled to myself, and apprehended no further trouble from
Peter.

The table for tea was set exactly as it had been before, and was lighted
by a couple of tallow candles made from bad fat, and their odour was such
as my jockey travelling companion of the day before would have described
as a tough smell.

"Give us a toon on the peeany," said Mrs M'Swat after the meal, when the
dishes had been cleared away by Lizer and Rose Jane. The tea and scraps,
of which there was any amount, remained on the floor, to be picked up by
the fowls in the morning.

The children lay on the old sofa and on the chairs, where they always
slept at night until their parents retired, when there was an all-round
bawl as they were wakened and bundled into bed, dirty as they were, and
very often with their clothes on.

I acceded to Mrs M'Swat's request with alacrity, thinking that while
forced to remain there I would have one comfort, and would spend all my
spare time at the piano. I opened the instrument, brushed a little of the
dust from the keys with my pocket-handkerchief, and struck the opening
chords of Kowalski's "Marche Hongroise".

I have heard of pianos sounding like a tin dish, but this was not as
Pleasant as a tin dish by long chalks. Every note that I struck stayed
down not to rise, and when I got them up the jarring, clanging,
discordant clatter they produced beggars description. There was not the
slightest possibility of distinguishing any tune on the thing. Worthless
to begin with, it had stood in the dust, heat, and wind so long that
every sign that it had once made music had deserted it.

I closed it with a feeling of such keen disappointment that I had
difficulty in suppressing tears.

"Won't it play?" inquired Mr M'Swat.

"No; the keys stay down."

"Then, Rose Jane, go ye an' pick 'em up while she tries again."

I tried again, Rose Jane fishing up the keys as I went along. I perceived
instantly that not one had the least ear for music or idea what it was; so
I beat on the demented piano with both hands, and often with all fingers
at once, and the bigger row I made the better they liked it.


CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE


To Life--continued


Mr M'Swat very kindly told me I need not begin my duties until Monday
morning, and could rest during Saturday and Sunday. Saturday, which was
sickeningly hot and sultry, and which seemed like an eternity, I spent in
arranging my belongings, brushing the dust from my travelling dress, and
in mending a few articles. Next morning rain started to fall, which was a
great God-send, being the first which had fallen for months, and the only
rain I saw during my residence at Barney's Gap.

That was a hideous Sabbath. Without a word of remonstrance from their
parents, the children entertained themselves by pushing each other into
the rain, the smaller ones getting the worst of it, until their clothing
was saturated with water. This made them very cold, so they sat upon the
floor and yelled outrageously.

It was the custom of Peter to spend his Sundays in riding about, but
today, being deterred by the rain, he slept some of the time, and made a
muzzle for one of his dogs, between whiles.

From breakfast to the midday meal I shut myself in my bedroom and wrote
letters to my mother and grandmother. I did not rant, rave, or say
anything which I ought not to have said to my elders. I wrote those
letters very coolly and carefully, explaining things just as they were,
and asked grannie to take me back to Caddagat, as I could never endure
life at Barney's Gap. I told my mother I had written thus, and asked her
if she would not let grannie take me again, would she get me some other
situation? What I did not care, so long as it brought emancipation from
the M'Swat's. I stamped and addressed these missives, and put them by
till a chance of posting should arise.

Mr M'Swat could read a little by spelling the long words and blundering
over the shorter ones, and he spent the morning and all the afternoon in
perusal of the local paper--the only literature with which Barney's Gap
was acquainted. There was a long list of the prices of stock and farm
produce in this edition, which perfectly fascinated its reader. The
ecstasy of a man of fine, artistic, mental calibre, when dipping for the
first time into the work of some congenial poet, would be completely
wiped out in comparison to the utter soul-satisfaction of M'Swat when
drinking in the items of that list.

"By damn, pigs was up last Toosday! Thames the things to make prawfit
on," he would excitedly exclaim; or--"Wheat's rose a shillun a bushel!
By dad, I must double my crops this year." When he had plodded to the
end, he started at the beginning again.

His wife sat the whole afternoon in the one place, saying and doing
nothing. I looked for something to read, but the only books in the house
were a Bible, which was never opened, and a diary kept most religiously
by M'Swat. I got permission to read this, and opening it, saw:


September

1st. Fine. Wint to boggie creak for a cow.
2nd. Fine. Got the chestnut mair shode.
3rd. Fine. On the jury.
4th. Fine. Tail the lams 60 yeos 52 wethers.
5th. Cloudy. Wint to Duffys.
6th. Fine. Dave Duffy called.
7th. Fine. Roped the red filly.
8th. Showery. Sold the gray mair's fole.
9th. Fine. Wint to the Red hill after a horse.
10th. Fine, Found tree sheap ded in sqre padick.


I closed the book and put it up with a sigh. The little record was a
perfect picture of the dull narrow life of its writer. Week after week
that diary went on the same--drearily monotonous account of a drearily
monotonous existence. I felt I would go mad if forced to live such a life
for long.

"Pa has lots of diaries. Would I like to read them?"

They were brought and put before me. I inquired of Mr M'Swat which was
the liveliest time of the year, and being told it was shearing and
threshing, I opened one first in November:


November 1896

1st. Fine. Started to muster sheap.
2nd. Fine. Counten sheap very dusty 20 short.
3rd. Fine. Started shering. Joe Harris cut his hand bad and wint hoam.
4th. Showery. Shering stoped on account of rane.


Then I skipped to December:


December 1896

1st. Fine and hot. Stripped the weet 60 bages.
2nd. Fine. Killed a snake very hot day.
3rd. Fine. Very hot alle had a boagy in the river.
4th. Fine. Got returns of woll 7 1/2 fleece 5 1/4 bellies.
5th. Fine. Awful hot got a serkeler from Tatersal by the poast.
6th. Fine. Saw Joe Harris at Duffys.


There was no entertainment to be had from the diaries, so I attempted a
conversation with Mrs M'Swat.

"A penny for your thoughts."

"I wuz jist watchin' the rain and thinkin' it would put a couple a bob a
head more on sheep if it keeps on."

What was I to do to pass the day? I was ever very restless, even in the
midst of full occupation. Uncle Jay-Jay used to accuse me of being in six
places at once, and of being incapable of sitting still for five minutes
consecutively; so it was simply endurance to live that long, long
day--nothing to read, no piano on which to play hymns, too wet to walk,
none with whom to converse, no possibility of sleeping, as in an
endeavour to kill a little of the time I had gone to bed early and got up
late. There was nothing but to sit still, tormented by maddening regret.
I pictured what would he transpiring at Caddagat now; what we had done
this time last week, and so on, till the thing became an agony to me.


Among my duties before school I was to set the table, make all the beds,
dust and sweep, and "do" the girls' hair. After school I had to mend
clothes, sew, set the table again, take a turn at nursing the baby, and
on washing-day iron. This sounds a lot, but in reality was nothing, and
did not half occupy my time. Setting the table was a mere sinecure, as
there was nothing much to put on it; and the only ironing was a few
articles outside my own, as Mr M'Swat and Peter did not wear white
shirts, and patronised paper collars. Mrs M'Swat did the washing and a
little scrubbing, also boiled the beef and baked the bread, which formed
our unvaried menu week in and week out. Most peasant mothers with a
family of nine have no time for idleness, but Mrs M'Swat managed things
so that she spent most of the day rolling on her frowsy bed playing with
her dirty infant, which was as fat and good-tempered as herself.

On Monday morning I marshalled my five scholars (Lizer, aged fourteen;
Jimmy, twelve; Tommy, Sarah, and Rose Jane, younger) in a little back
skillion, which was set apart as a schoolroom and store for flour and
rock-salt. Like all the house, it was built of slabs, which, erected
while green, and on account Of the heat, had shrunk until many of the
cracks were sufficiently wide to insert one's arm. On Monday--after the
rain--the wind, which disturbed us through them, was piercingly cold, but
as the week advanced summer and drought regained their pitiless sway, and
we were often sunburnt by the rough gusts which filled the room with such
clouds of dust and grit that we were forced to cover our heads until it
passed.

A policeman came on Tuesday to take some returns, and to him I entrusted
the posting of my letters, and then eagerly waited for the reply which
was to give me glorious release.

The nearest post-office was eight miles distant, and thither Jimmy was
dispatched on horseback twice a week. With trembling expectancy every
mail-day I watched for the boy's return down the tortuous track to the
house, but it was always, "No letters for the school-missus."

A week, a fortnight, dragged away. Oh, the slow horror of those
never-ending days! At the end of three weeks Mr M'Swat went to the post
unknown to me, and surprised me with a couple of letters. They bore the
handwriting of my mother and grandmother--what I had been wildly waiting
for,--and now that they had come at last I had not the nerve to open them
while any one was observing me. All day I carried them in my bosom till
my work was done, when I shut myself in my room and tore the envelopes
open to read first my grannie's letter, which contained two:


My dear child,

I have been a long time answering your letter on account of waiting to
consult your mother. I was willing to take you back, but your mother is
not agreeable, so I cannot interfere between you. I enclose your mother's
letter, so you can see how I stand in the matter. Try and do good where
you are. We cannot get what we would like in this world, and must bow to
God's will. He will always, &c.


Mother's Letter to Grannie


My dear Mother,

I am truly grieved that Sybylla should have written and worried you. Take
no notice of her; it is only while she is unused to the place. She will
soon settle down. She has always been a trial to me, and it is no use of
taking notice of her complaints, which no doubt are greatly exaggerated,
as she was never contented at home. I don't know where her rebellious
spirit will eventually lead her. I hope M'Swat's will tame her; it will
do her good. It is absolutely necessary that she should remain there, so
do not say anything to give her other ideas &c.


Mother's Letter to Me


My dear Sybylla,

I wish you would not write and worry your poor old grandmother, who has
been so good to you. You must try and put up with things; you cannot
expect to find it like holidaying at Caddagat. Be careful not to give
offence to any one, as it would be awkward for us. What is wrong with the
place? Have you too much work to do? Do you not get sufficient to cat?
Are they unkind to you, or what? Why don't you have sense and not talk of
getting another place, as it is utterly impossible; and unless you remain
there, how are we to pay the interest on that money? I've always been a
good mother to you, and the least you might do in return is this, when
you know how we are situated. Ask God &c.


Full of contempt and hatred for my mother, I tore her letters into tiny
pieces and hurled them out the window. Oh, the hard want of sympathy they
voiced! She had forced me to this place: it would have been different had
I wanted to come of my own accord, and then sung out for a removal
immediately; but no, against my earnest pleadings she had forced me here,
and now would not heed my cry. And to whom in all the world can we turn
when our mother spurns our prayer?

There never was any sympathy between my mother and myself. We are too
unlike. She is intensely matter-of-fact and practical, possessed of no
ambitions or aspirations not capable of being turned into cash value. She
is very ladylike, and though containing no spice of either poet or
musician, can take a part in conversation on such subjects, and play the
piano correctly, because in her young days she was thus cultivated; but
had she been horn a peasant, she would have been a peasant, with no
longings unattainable in that sphere. She no more understood me than I
understand the works of a watch. She looked upon me as a discontented,
rebellious, bad child, possessed of evil spirits, which wanted trouncing
out of me; and she would have felt that she was sinning had she humoured
me in any way, so after cooling I did not blame her for her letters. She
was doing her duty according to her lights. Again, it was this way,
grannie did not come to my rescue on this occasion on account of her
attitude towards my father. The Bossiers were not at enmity with him, but
they were so disgusted with his insobriety that they never visited Possum
Gully, and did not assist us as much as they would have done had my
father's failure been attributable to some cause more deserving of
sympathy.

After reading my letters I wept till every atom of my body writhed with
agonized emotion. I was aroused by Mrs M'Swat hammering at my door and
inquiring:

"What ails ye, child? Did ye git bad noos from home?"

I recovered myself as by a miracle, and replied, no; that I was merely a
little homesick, and would be out presently.

I wrote again to my mother, but as I could not truthfully say I was
hungry or ill-treated, for, according to their ability, the M'Swats were
very kind to me, she took no notice of my plaint, but told me that
instead of complaining of monotony, it would suit me better if I cleared
up the house a little.

Acting upon this advice, I asked Mr M'Swat to put a paling fence round
the house, as it was useless trying to keep the house respectable while
the fowls and pigs ran in every time the door was opened.--

He was inclined to look with favour upon this proposition, but his wife
sat upon it determinedly-said the fowls would lose the scraps. "Would it
not be possible to throw them over the fence to the fowls?" I asked; but
this would cause too much waste, she considered.

Next I suggested that the piano should be tuned, but they were united in
their disapproval of such a fearful extravagance. "The peeany makes a
good nise. What ails it?"

Then I suggested that the children should he kept tidier, for which I was
insulted by their father. I wanted them to be dressed up like swells, and
if he did that he would soon be a pauper like my father. This I found was
the sentiment of the whole family regarding me. I was only the daughter
of old hard-up Melvyn, consequently I had little weight with the
children, which made things very hard for me as a teacher.

One day at lunch I asked my mistress if she would like the children to be
instructed in table-manners. "Certainly," her husband replied, so I
commenced.

"Jimmy, you must never put your knife in your mouth."

"Pa does at any rate," replied Jimmy.

"Yes," said pa; "and I'm a richer man today than them as didn't do it."

"Liza, do not put a whole slice of bread to your mouth like that, and
cram so. Cut it into small pieces."

"Ma doesn't," returned Liza.

"Ye'll have yer work cut out with 'em," laughed Mrs M'Swat, who did not
know how to correct her family herself, and was too ignorant to uphold my
authority.

That was my only attempt at teaching manners there. In the face of such
odds it was a bootless task, and as there were not enough knives and
forks to go round, I could not inculcate the correct method of handling
those implements.

Mrs M'Swat had but one boiler in which to do all her cooking, and one
small tub for the washing, and there was seldom anything to cat but bread
and beef; and this was not because they were poor, but because they did
not know, or want to know, any better.

Their idea of religion, pleasure, manners, breeding, respectability,
love, and everything of that ilk, was the possession of money, and their
one idea of accumulating wealth was by hard sordid dragging and grinding.

A man who rises from indigence to opulence by business capabilities must
have brains worthy of admiration, but the man who makes a fortune as
M'Swat of Barney's Gap was making his must he dirt mean, grasping,
narrow-minded, and soulless--to me the most uncongenial of my fellows.

I wrote once more to my mother, to receive the same reply. One hope
remained. I would write to aunt Helen. She understood me somewhat, and
would know how I felt.

Acting on this inspiration, I requested her to plead for me. Her answer
came as a slap in the face, as I had always imagined her above the common
cant of ordinary religionists. She stated that life was full of trials. I
must try and bear this little cross patiently, and at the end of a year
they might have me back at Caddagat. A year! A year at Barney's Gap! The
possibility of such a thing made me frantic. I picked up my pen and
bitterly reproached my aunt in a letter to which she did not deign to
reply; and from that day to this she has rigidly ignored me--never so much
as sending me the most commonplace message, or casually using my name in
her letters to my mother.

Aunt Helen, is there such a thing as firm friendship when even yours--best
of women--quibbled and went under at the hysterical wail from the
overburdened heart of a child?

My predecessor, previous to her debut at Barney's Gap, had spent some
time in a lunatic asylum, and being a curious character, allowed the
children to do as they pleased, consequently they knew not what it meant
to be ruled, and were very hold. They attempted no insubordination while
their father was about the house, but when he was absent they gave me a
dog's life, their mother sometimes smiling on their pranks, often lazily
heedless of them, but never administering any form of correction.

If I walked away from the house to get rid of them, they would follow and
hoot at me; and when I reproved them they informed me they were not going
"to knuckle under to old Melvyn's darter, the damnedest fool in the
world, who's lost all his prawperty, and has to borry money off of pa."

Did I shut myself in my room, they shoved sticks in the cracks and made
grimaces at me. I knew the fallacy of appealing to their father, as they
and their mother would tell falsehoods, and my word would not be taken in
contradiction of theirs. I had experience of this, as the postmistress
had complained of Jimmy, to be insulted by his father, who could see no
imperfection in his children.

M'Swat was much away from home at that time. The drought necessitated the
removal of some of his sheep, for which he had rented a place eighty
miles coastwards. There he left them under the charge of a man, but he
repaired thither frequently to inspect them. Sometimes he was away from
home a fortnight at a stretch. Peter would be away at work all day, and
the children took advantage of my defenceless position. Jimmy was the
ringleader. I could easily have managed the others had he been removed. I
would have thrashed him well at the start but for the letters I
constantly received from home warning me against offence to the parents,
and knew that to set my foot on the children's larrikinism would require
measures that would gain their mother's ill-will at once. But when M'Swat
left home for three weeks Jim got so bold that I resolved to take
decisive steps towards subjugating him. I procured a switch--a very small
one, as his mother had a great objection to corporal punishment--and when,
as usual, he commenced to cheek me during lessons, I hit him on the
coat-sleeve. The blow would not have brought tears from the eyes of a
toddler, but this great calf emitted a wild yope, and opening his mouth
let his saliva pour on to his slate. The others set up such
blood-curdling yells in concert that I was a little disconcerted, but I
determined not to give in. I delivered another tap, whereupon he squealed
and roared so that he brought his mother to his rescue like a ton of
bricks on stilts, a great fuss in her eyes which generally beamed with a
cowful calm.

Seizing my arm she shook me like a rat, broke my harmless little stick in
pieces, threw it in my face, and patting Jimmy on the shoulder, said:

"Poor man! She sharn't touch me Jimmy while I know. Sure you've got no
sense. You'd had him dead if I hadn't come in."

I walked straight to my room and shut myself in, and did not teach any
more that afternoon. The children rattled on my door-handle and jeered:

"She thought she'd hit me, but ma settled her. Old poor Melvyn's darter
won't try no more of her airs on us."

I pretended not to hear. What was I to do? There was no one to whom I
could turn for help. M'Swat would believe the story of his family, and my
mother would blame me. She would think I had been in fault because I
hated the place.

Mrs M'Swat called me to tea, but I said I would not have any. I lay awake
all night and got desperate. On the morrow I made up my mind to conquer
or leave. I would stand no more. If in all the wide world and the whole
of life this was the only use for me, then I would die--take my own life
if necessary.

Things progressed as usual next morning. I attended to my duties and
marched my scholars into the schoolroom at the accustomed hour. There was
no decided insubordination during the morning, but I felt Jimmy was
waiting for an opportunity to defy me. It was a fearful day, possessed by
a blasting wind laden with red dust from Riverina, which filled the air
like a fog. The crockery ware became so hot in the kitchen that when
taking it into the dining-room we had to handle it with cloths. During
the dinner-hour! slipped away unnoticed to where some quince-trees were
growing and procured a sharp rod, which I secreted among the flour-bags
in the schoolroom. At half-past one I brought my scholars in and ordered
them to their work with a confident air. Things went without a ripple
until three o'clock, when the writing lesson began. Jimmy struck his pen
on the bottom of the bottle every time he replenished it with ink.

"Jimmy," I gently remonstrated, "don't jab your pen like that--it will
spoil it. There is no necessity to shove it right to the bottom."

Jab, jab, went Jimmy's pen.

"Jimmy, did you hear me speak to you?"

Jab went the pen.

"James, I am speaking to you!"

Jab went the pen again.

"James," I said sternly, "I give you one more chance."

He deliberately defied me by stabbing into the ink-bottle with increased
vigour. Liza giggled triumphantly, and the little ones strove to emulate
her. I calmly produced my switch and brought it smartly over the
shoulders of my refractory pupil in a way that sent the dust in a cloud
from his dirty coat, knocked the pen from his fingers, and upset the ink.

He acted as before--yelled ear-drum-breakingly, letting the saliva from
his distended mouth run on his copy-book. His brothers and sisters also
started to roar, but bringing the rod down on the table, I threatened to
thrash every one of them if they so much as whimpered; and they were so
dumbfounded that they sat silent in terrified surprise.
Jimmy continued to bawl. I hit him again.

"Cease instantly, sir."

Through the cracks Mrs M'Swat could be seen approaching. Seeing her,
Jimmy hollered anew. I expected her to attack me. She stood five feet
nine inches, and weighed about sixteen stones; I measured five feet one
inch, and turned the scale at eight stones--scarcely a fair match; but my
spirit was aroused, and instead of feeling afraid, I rejoiced at the
encounter which was imminent, and had difficulty to refrain from shouting
"Come on! I'm ready, physically and mentally, for you and a dozen others
such."

My curious ideas regarding human equality gave me confidence. My theory
is that the cripple is equal to the giant, and the idiot to the genius.
As, if on account of his want of strength the cripple is subservient to
the giant, the latter, on account of that strength, is compelled to give
in to the cripple. So with the dolt and the man of brain, so with Mrs
M'Swat and me.

The fact of not only my own but my family's dependence on M'Swat--sank
into oblivion. I merely recognized that she was one human being and I
another. Should I have been deferential to her by reason of her age and
maternity, then from the vantage which this gave her, she should have
been lenient to me on account of my chit-ship and inexperience. Thus we
were equal.

Jimmy hollered with renewed energy to attract his mother, and I continued
to rain blows across his shoulders. Mrs M'Swat approached to within a
foot of the door, and then, as though changing her mind, retraced her
steps and entered the hot low-roofed kitchen. I knew I had won, and felt
disappointed that the conquest had been so easy. Jimmy, seeing he was
worsted, ceased his uproar, cleaned his copy-book on his sleeve, and
sheepishly went on with his writing.

Whether Mrs M'Swat saw she had been in fault the day before I know not;
certain it is that the children ever after that obeyed me, and I heard no
more of the matter; neither, as far as I could ascertain, did the
"ruction" reach the ears of M'Swat.

"How long, how long!" was my cry, as I walked out ankle-deep in the dust
to see the sun, like a ball of blood, sink behind the hills on that
February evening.


CHAPTER THIRTY


Where Ignorance is Bliss, 'Tis Folly to be Wise


When by myself, I fretted so constantly that the traces it left upon me
became evident even to the dull comprehension of Mrs M'Swat.

"I don't hold with too much pleasure and disherpation, but you ain't had
overmuch of it lately. You've stuck at home pretty constant, and ye and
Lizer can have a little fly round. It'll do yous good," she said.

The dissipation, pleasure, and flying round allotted to "Lizer" and me
were to visit some of the neighbours. Those, like the M'Swats, were
sheep-farming selectors. They were very friendly and kind to me, and I
found them superior to my employers, in that their houses were
beautifully clean; but they lived the same slow life, and their soul's
existence fed on the same small ideas. I was keenly disappointed that
none of them had a piano, as my hunger for music could be understood only
by one with a passion for that art.

I borrowed something to read, but all that I could get in the way of
books were a few _Young Ladies' Journals_, which I devoured ravenously, so
to speak.

When Lizer's back would be turned, the girls would ask me how I managed
to live at Barney's Gap, and expressed themselves of the opinion that it
was the most horrible hole in the world, and Mrs M'Swat the dirtiest
creature living, and that they would not go there for 50 pounds a week.
I made a point of never saying anything against Mrs M'Swat; but I fumed
inwardly that this life was forced upon me, when girls with no longings
or aspirations beyond being the wife of a Peter M'Swat recoiled from the
thought of it.

My mother insisted upon my writing to her regularly, so once a week I
headed a letter "Black's Camp", and condemned the place, while mother
as unfailingly replied that these bad times I should be thankful to God
that I was fed and clothed. I knew this as well as any one, and was aware
there were plenty of girls willing to jump at my place; but they were of
different temperament to me, and when one is seventeen, that kind of
reasoning does not weigh very heavily.

My eldest brother, Horace, twin brother of my sister Gertie, took it upon
himself to honour me with the following letter:


Why the deuce don't you give up writing those letters to mother? We get
tongue-pie on account of them, and it's not as if they did you any good.
It only makes mother more determined to leave you where you are. She says
you are that conceited you think you ought to have something better, and
you're not fit for the place you have, and she's glad it is such a place,
and it will do you the world of good and take the nonsense out of
you--that it's time you got a bit of sense. They didn't speak at all."
"And you mean," asked Mrs. Ennis, "that she did that? That she came all
the way out to him, like that?"
"No," retorted Burnaby, "of course not. How could she? She wasn't even sure
where he was living. At the moment she was in a hospital out of her head.
You see, I didn't know whether to believe Mackintosh or not when he said
he saw her that night, although I am sure he believed he did--such
things are beyond human proof--but what I do know is that he came straight
down from the hills, and boarded a train, and went East, and found the
girl, and, after a while, came back with her." He looked at the fire.
"They were the most completely happy people I have ever seen," he
continued. "They were so calm and determined about themselves.
Everything immaterial had been burned away. They knew they were playing
on the side of fate. And so," he concluded, "that's the end of my
parable. What do you make of it?"
The curtains, stirred by the breeze, tip-tapped softly; in the silence
the fire hissed gently. Pollen spoke first, but with some difficulty, as
if in the long period of listening on his part his throat had become
dry. "It's very interesting," he said; "very! But what's it all
about?
And you certainly don't believe it, do you?"
"Of course I do," answered Burnaby calmly. "You should, too; it's true."

Mary Rochefort looked up with an exclamation. "Gracious!" she said. "I
had no idea it was so late! My motor must be waiting." She got to her
feet. She looked very white and her eyes were tired; the translucent
quality of the earlier hours was gone. "I'm worn out," she explained.
"I've been going about too much. I must rest." She held her hand out to
Mrs. Ennis; over her shoulder she spoke to Pollen. "No," she said.
"Don't bother. I'll take myself home, thanks."
"I'll see you to your car," he stammered.

She turned to Burnaby. "Good night!" she said. Her voice was lifeless,
disinterested; her eyes met his for an instant and were withdrawn.

"Good night," he said.

Mrs. Ennis stood by the door for a moment before she walked slowly
back to the fireplace. From the street outside came the whirring
of a motor and the sound of Mary Rochefort's voice saying good-by to
Pollen.

Mrs. Ennis rested an arm on the mantelpiece and kicked a log thoughtfully
with a white-slippered foot; then she faced about on Burnaby.

"I suppose," she said, "you realize that you have spoiled my party?"

"I?"

said Burnaby.

"Yes, you!" Her small, charming face was a study in ruefulness, and
indecision whether to be angry or not, and, one might almost have imagined,
a certain amused tenderness as well. "Don't you suppose those people knew
of whom you were talking?"
Burnaby, peering down at her, narrowed his eyes and then opened them
very wide. "They couldn't very well have helped it," he said, "could
they? For, you see"--he paused--"the girl who came West was Mrs.
Pollen."
Mrs. Ennis gasped in the manner of a person who is hearing too much.
"Mrs. Pollen?"
"Yes. You knew he had been divorced, didn't you? Years ago."
"I'd heard it, but forgotten." Mrs. Ennis clasped her jeweled hand. "And
you dared," she demanded, "to tell his story before him in that way?"

"Why not? It was rather a complete revenge upon him of fate, wasn't
it?

You see, he couldn't very well give himself away, could he? His one chance
was to keep quiet." Burnaby paused and smiled doubtfully at Mrs.
Ennis. "I hope I made his character clear enough," he said. "That,
after all, was the point of the story."
"How did you know it was this Pollen?" she asked, "and how, anyway, would
Mary Rochefort know of whom you were talking?"
Burnaby grinned. "I took a chance," he said. "And as to the second, I told
Madame de Rochefort at dinner--merely as a coincidence; at least, I let
her think so--that I had once known in the West a Mrs. Pollen with a
curious history.

Perhaps I wouldn't have told it if Pollen hadn't been so witty."

He picked up a silver dish from the mantelpiece and examined it
carefully.

"One oughtn't to have such a curious name if one is going to lead
a curious life, ought one?"

he asked. He sighed. "You're right," he concluded; "your friend Mary
Rochefort is a child."
Mrs. Ennis looked up at him with searching eyes.

"Why don't you stay longer in Washington?"

she asked softly. "Just now, of course, Mary Rochefort hates you; but she
won't for long--I think she was beginning to have doubts about Pollen,
anyway."
Burnaby suddenly looked grave and disconcerted. "Oh, no!" he said,
hastily. "Oh, no! I must be off tomorrow." He laughed. "My dear Rhoda,"
he said, "you have the quaintest ideas.

I don't like philandering; I'm afraid I have a crude habit of really falling
in love."
Mrs. Ennis's own eyes were veiled.

"If you're going away so soon, sit down," she said, "and stay. You
needn't go--oh, for hours!"
"I must," he answered.

"I'm off so early."

She sighed. "For years?"
"One--perhaps two." His voice became gay and bantering again. "My dear
Rhoda," he said, "I'm extremely sorry if I really spoiled your
party, but I don't believe I did--not altogether, anyhow.

Underneath, I think you enjoyed it." He took her small hand in his; he
wondered why it was so cold and listless.

At the door leading into the hall he paused and looked back "Oh,"
he said, "there was one thing I forgot to tell you!

You see, part of my story wasn't altogether true. Mrs. Pollen--or rather,
Mrs.

Mackintosh--left Mackintosh after five years or so.

She's in the movies--doing very well, I understand.

She would; wouldn't she?

Of course, she was no good to begin with.

But that didn't spoil the point of my story, did it? Good-by, Rhoda,
my dear."

He was gone.

Mrs.

Ennis did not move until she heard the street door close; she waited
even a little longer, following the sound of Burnaby's footsteps
as they died away into the night; finally she walked over to the
piano, and, sitting down, raised her hands as if to strike the keys.

Instead, she suddenly put both her arms on the little shelf before
the music-rack and buried her head in them.

The curtains tip-tapped on the window-sill; the room was entirely
quiet.

DARKNESS[5]
By IRVIN S. COBB
(From _The Saturday Evening Post_)

There was a house in this town where always by night lights burned.
In one of its rooms many lights burned; in each of the other rooms
at least one light.

It stood on Clay Street, on a treeless plot among flower beds, a small
dull-looking house; and when late on dark nights all the other houses
on Clay Street were black blockings lifting from the lesser blackness
of their background, the lights in this house patterned its windows
with squares of brilliancy so that it suggested a grid set on edge
before hot flames.

Once a newcomer to the town, a transient guest at Mrs. Otterbuck's
boarding house, spoke about it to old Squire Jonas, who lived next door
to where the lights blazed of nights, and the answer he got makes
a fitting enough beginning for this account.

This stranger came along Clay Street one morning and Squire Jonas,
who was leaning over his gate contemplating the world as it passed in
review, nodded to him and remarked that it was a fine morning; and the
stranger was emboldened to stop and pass the time of day, as the saying
goes.

"I'm here going over the books of the Bernheimer Distilling Company,"
he said when they had spoken of this and that, "and you know, when a
chartered accountant gets on a job he's supposed to keep right at
it until he's done. Well, my work keeps me busy till pretty late. And the
last three nights, passing that place yonder adjoining yours, I've
noticed she was all lit up like as if for a wedding or a christening
or a party or something.

But I didn't see anybody going in or coming out, or hear anybody
stirring in there, and it struck me as blamed curious.
Last night--or this morning, rather, I should say--it must have
been close on to half-past two o'clock when I passed by, and there
she was, all as quiet as the tomb and still the lights going from
top to bottom.

So I got to wondering to myself. Tell me, sir, is there somebody sick
over there next door?"
"Yes, suh," stated the squire, "I figure you might say there is
somebody sick there. He's been sick a powerful long time too.

But it's not his body that's sick; it's his soul."
"I don't know as I get you, sir," said the other man in a puzzled sort
of way.

"Son," stated the squire, "I reckin you've been hearin' 'em, haven't you,
singin' this here new song that's goin' 'round about, 'I'm Afraid to Go
Home in the Dark'?

Well, probably the man who wrote that there song never was down
here in these parts in his life; probably he just made the idea of
it up out of his own head.

But he might 'a' had the case of my neighbor in his mind when he done so.
Only his song is kind of comical and this case here is about the
most uncomic one you'd be likely to run acrost.

The man who lives here alongside of me is not only afraid to go home in
the dark but he's actually feared to stay in the dark after he
gets home.

Once he killed a man and he come clear of the killin' all right enough,
but seems like he ain't never got over it; and the sayin' in this town
is that he's studied it out that ef ever he gets in the dark, either
by himself or in company, he'll see the face of that there man he killed.
So that's why, son, you've been seein' them lights a-blazin'. I've
been seein' 'em myself fur goin' on twenty year or more, I reckin 'tis
by now, and I've got used to 'em.

But I ain't never got over wonderin' whut kind of thoughts he must have
over there all alone by himself at night with everything lit up
bright as day around him, when by rights things should be dark.

But I ain't ever asted him, and whut's more, I never will. He ain't the kind
you could go to him astin' him personal questions about his own
private affairs. We-all here in town just accept him fur whut he is and
sort of let him be. He's whut you might call a town character. His name is
Mr. Dudley Stackpole."
In all respects save one, Squire Jonas, telling the inquiring stranger
the tale, had the rights of it. There were town characters aplenty
he might have described.

A long-settled community with traditions behind it and a reasonable
antiquity seems to breed curious types of men and women as a musty
closet breeds mice and moths. This town of ours had its town mysteries
and its town eccentrics--its freaks, if one wished to put the matter
bluntly; and it had its champion story-teller and its champion liar
and its champion guesser of the weight of livestock on the hoof.

There was crazy Saul Vance, the butt of cruel small boys, who deported
himself as any rational creature might so long as he walked a straight
course; but so surely as he came to where the road forked or two streets
crossed he could not decide which turning to take and for hours angled
back and forth and to and fro, now taking the short cut to regain the path
he just had quitted, now retracing his way over the long one, for
all the world like a geometric spider spinning its web.

There was old Daddy Hannah, the black root-and-yarb doctor, who could
throw spells and weave charms and invoke conjures. He wore a pair of shoes
which had been worn by a man who was hanged, and these shoes, as is well
known, leave no tracks which a dog will nose after or a witch follow,
or a ha'nt.

Small boys did not gibe at Daddy Hannah, you bet you!

There was Major Burnley, who lived for years and years in the same house
with the wife with whom he had quarreled and never spoke a word to
her or she to him.

But the list is overlong for calling. With us, in that day and time, town
characters abounded freely. But Mr. Dudley Stackpole was more than a town
character. He was that, it is true, but he was something else besides;
something which tabbed him a mortal set apart from his fellow mortals. He
was the town's chief figure of tragedy.

If you had ever seen him once you could shut your eyes and see him
over again.

Yet about him there was nothing impressive, nothing in his port or his
manner to catch and to hold a stranger's gaze. With him, physically, it
was quite the other way about. He was a short spare man,
very gentle in his movements, a toneless sort of man of a palish gray
cast, who always wore sad-colored clothing. He would make you think of
a man molded out of a fog; almost he was like a man made of smoke. His
mode of living might testify that a gnawing remorse abode ever with him,
but his hair had not turned white in a single night, as the heads
of those suddenly stricken by a great shock or a great grief or any
greatly upsetting and disordering emotion sometimes are reputed to turn.
Neither in his youth nor when age came to him was his hair white.

But for so far back as any now remembered it had been a dullish gray,
suggesting at a distance dead lichens.

The color of his skin was a color to match in with the rest of him.
It was not pale, nor was it pasty. People with a taste for comparisons
were hard put to it to describe just what it was the hue of his
face did remind them of, until one day a man brought in from the
woods the abandoned nest of a brood of black hornets, still clinging
to the pendent twig from which the insect artificers had swung it.

Darkies used to collect these nests in the fall of the year when the
vicious swarms had deserted them. Their shredded parchments made ideal
wadding for muzzle-loading scatter-guns, and sufferers from asthma
tore them down, too, and burned them slowly and stood over the
smoldering mass and inhaled the fumes and the smoke which arose, because
the country wiseacres preached that no boughten stuff out of a drug
store gave such relief from asthma as this hornet's-nest treatment.
But it remained for this man to find a third use for such a thing.
He brought it into the office of Gafford's wagon yard, where some other
men were sitting about the fire, and he held it up before them and he
said:

"Who does this here hornet's nest put you fellers in mind of--this
gray color all over it, and all these here fine lines runnin' back
and forth and every which-a-way like wrinkles?

Think, now--it's somebody you all know."
And when they had given it up as a puzzle too hard for them to guess he
said:

"Why, ain't it got percisely the same color and the same look about it
as Mr. Dudley Stackpole's face? Why, it's a perfect imitation of him!
That's whut I said to myself all in a flash when I first seen it bouncin'
on the end of this here black birch limb out yonder in the flats."
"By gum, if you ain't right!" exclaimed one of the audience. "Say, come
to think about it, I wonder if spendin' all his nights with bright lights
burnin' round him is whut's give that old man that gray color he's
got, the same as this wasp's nest has got it, and all them puckery
lines round his eyes.

Pore old devil, with the hags furever ridin' him!
Well, they tell me he's toler'ble well fixed in this world's goods, but
poor as I am, and him well off, I wouldn't trade places with him fur any
amount of money. I've got my peace of mind if I ain't got anything else
to speak of. Say, you'd 'a' thought in all these years a man would get
over broodin' over havin' killed another feller, and specially havin'
killed him in fair fight.

Let's see, now, whut was the name of the feller he killed that time out
there at Cache Creek Crossin's? I actually disremember. I've heard it
a thousand times, too, I reckin, if I've heard it oncet."

For a fact, the memory of the man slain so long before only endured because
the slayer walked abroad as a living reminder of the taking off of one
who by all accounts had been of small value to mankind in his day and
generation. Save for the daily presence of the one, the very identity
even of the other might before now have been forgotten. For this very
reason, seeking to enlarge the merits of the controversy which had
led to the death of one Jesse Tatum at the hands of Dudley Stackpole,
people sometimes referred to it as the Tatum-Stackpole feud and sought
to liken it to the Faxon-Fleming feud.

But that was a real feud with fence-corner ambuscades and a sizable mortality
list and night-time assassinations and all; whereas this lesser thing,
which now briefly is to be dealt with on its merits, had been no more
than a neighborhood falling out, having but a solitary homicide for its
climatic upshot. So far as that went, it really was not so much the death
of the victim as the survival of his destroyer--and his fashion of living
afterwards--which made warp and woof for the fabric of the tragedy.

With the passage of time the actuating causes were somewhat blurred in
perspective.

The main facts stood forth clear enough, but the underlying details were
misty and uncertain, like some half-obliterated scribble on a badly rubbed
slate upon which a more important sum has been overlaid.
One rendition had it that the firm of Stackpole Brothers sued the
two Tatums--Harve and Jess--for an account long overdue, and won
judgment in the courts, but won with it the murderous enmity of the defendant
pair.
Another account would have it that a dispute over a boundary fence
marching between the Tatum homestead on Cache Creek and one of the Stackpole
farm holdings ripened into a prime quarrel by reasons of Stackpole
stubbornness on the one hand and Tatum malignity on the other.
By yet a third account the lawsuit and the line-fence matter were
confusingly twisted together to form a cause for disputation.

Never mind that part though. The incontrovertible part was that things
came to a decisive pass on a July day in the late '80's when the two Tatums
sent word to the two Stackpoles that at or about six o'clock of
that evening they would come down the side road from their place a
mile away to Stackpole Brothers' gristmill above the big riffle in
Cache Creek prepared to fight it out man to man.

The warning was explicit enough--the Tatums would shoot on sight.
The message was meant for two, but only one brother heard it; for Jeffrey
Stackpole, the senior member of the firm, was sick abed with heart disease
at the Stackpole house on Clay Street in town, and Dudley, the junior,
was running the business and keeping bachelor's hall, as the phrase
runs, in the living room of the mill; and it was Dudley who received
notice.

Now the younger Stackpole was known for a law-abiding and a
well-disposed man, which reputation stood him in stead subsequently;
but also he was no coward.

He might crave peace, but he would not flee from trouble moving toward
him.

He would not advance a step to meet it, neither would he give back
a step to avoid it. If it occurred to him to hurry in to the county seat
and have his enemies put under bonds to keep the peace he pushed the thought
from him. This, in those days, was not the popular course for one threatened
with violence by another; nor, generally speaking, was it regarded
exactly as the manly one to follow.

So he bided that day where he was. Moreover, it was not of record that he
told any one at all of what impended. He knew little of the use of
firearms, but there was a loaded pistol in the cash drawer of the
mill office.

He put it in a pocket of his coat and through the afternoon he waited,
outwardly quiet and composed, for the appointed hour when single-handed
he would defend his honor and his brother's against the unequal
odds of a brace of bullies, both of them quick on the trigger, both
smart and clever in the handling of weapons.

But if Stackpole told no one, some one else told some one. Probably the
messenger of the Tatums talked. He currently was reputed to have a
leaky tongue to go with his jimberjaws; a born trouble maker,
doubtless, else he would not have loaned his service to such
employment in the first place.

Up and down the road ran the report that before night there would be a
clash at the Stackpole mill.

Peg-Leg Foster, who ran the general store below the bridge and within
sight of the big riffle, saw fit to shut up shop early and go to town
for the evening. Perhaps he did not want to be a witness, or possibly he
desired to be out of the way of stray lead flying about. So the only known
witness to what happened, other than the parties engaged in it, was a negro
woman. She, at least, was one who had not heard the rumor which since early
forenoon had been spreading through the sparsely settled neighborhood.

When six o'clock came she was grubbing out a sorghum patch in front
of her cabin just north of where the creek cut under the Blandsville
gravel pike.

One gets a picture of the scene: The thin and deficient shadows
stretching themselves across the parched bottom lands as the sun slid
down behind the trees of Eden's swamp lot; the heat waves of a blistering
hot day still dancing their devil's dance down the road like wriggling
circumflexes to accent a false promise of coolness off there in the
distance; the ominous emptiness of the landscape; the brooding quiet, cut
through only by the frogs and the dry flies tuning up for their
evening concert; the bandannaed negress wrangling at the weeds with
her hoe blade inside the rail fence; and, half sheltered within the
lintels of the office doorway of his mill, Dudley Stackpole, a slim,
still figure, watching up the crossroad for the coming of his
adversaries.

But the adversaries did not come from up the road as they had advertised
they would. That declaration on their part had been a trick and device,
cockered up in the hope of taking the foe by surprise and from the
rear.

In a canvas-covered wagon--moving wagons, we used to call them in
Red Gravel County--they left their house half an hour or so before
the time set by them for the meeting, and they cut through by a
wood lane which met the pike south of Foster's store; and then very
slowly they rode up the pike toward the mill, being minded to attack
from behind, with the added advantage of unexpectedness on their
side.

Chance, though, spoiled their strategy and made these terms of
primitive dueling more equal.

Mark how: The woman in the sorghum patch saw it happen. She saw the wagon
pass her and saw it brought to standstill just beyond where she was; saw
Jess Tatum slide stealthily down from under the overhanging hood of the
wagon and, sheltered behind it, draw a revolver and cock it, all the while
peeping out, searching the front and the nearer side of the gristmill
with his eager eyes. She saw Harve Tatum, the elder brother, set the wheel
chock and wrap the lines about the sheathed whipstock, and then as he
swung off the seat catch a boot heel on the rim of the wagon box and
fall to the road with a jar which knocked him cold, for he was a gross
and heavy man and struck squarely on his head.

What ails ye, child? Are ye
sick?"

I did not know what ailed me, but learnt subsequently that I laughed and
cried very much, and pleaded hard with grannie and some Harold to save
me, and kept reiterating, "I cannot bear it, I cannot bear it," and
altogether behaved so strangely that Mr M'Swat became so alarmed that he
sent seventeen miles for the nearest doctor. He came next morning, felt
my pulse, asked a few questions, and stated that I was suffering from
nervous prostration.

"Why, the child is completely run down, and in a fair way to contract
brain fever!" he exclaimed. "What has she been doing? It seems as though
she had been under some great mental strain. She must have complete rest
and change, plenty of diversion and nourishing food, or her mind will
become impaired."

He left me a bottle of tonic and Mr and Mrs M'Swat many fears. Poor
kind-hearted souls, they got in a great state, and understood about as
much of the cause of my breakdown as I do of the inside of the moon. They
ascribed it to the paltry amount of teaching and work I had done.

Mrs M'Swat killed a fowl and stewed it for my delectation. There was part
of the inside with many feathers to flavour the dish, and having no
appetite, I did not enjoy it, but made a feint of so doing to please the
good-natured cook.

They intended writing at once to give my parents notice when I would be
put on the train. I was pronounced too ill to act as scribe; Lizer was
suggested, and then Jimmy, but M'Swat settled the matter thus:

"Sure, damn it! I'm the proper one to write on an important business
matther like this here."

So pens, ink, and paper were laid on the dining-room table, and the great
proclamation went forth among the youngsters, "Pa is goin' to write a
whole letter all by hisself."

My door opened with the dining-room, and from my bed I could see the
proceeding. Mr M'Swat hitched his trousers well through the saddle-strap
which he always wore as a belt, took off his coat and folded it on the
back of a chair, rolled his shirt-sleeves up to his elbows, pulled his
hat well over his eyes, and "shaped up" to the writing material, none of
which met with his approval. The ink was "warter", the pens had not
enough "pint", and the paper was "trash"; but on being assured it was the
good stuff he had purchased especially for himself, he buckled to the
fray, producing in three hours a half-sheet epistle, which in grammar,
composition, and spelling quite eclipsed the entries in his diary.
However, it served its purpose, and my parents wrote back that, did I
reach Goulburn on a certain day, a neighbour who would be in town then
would bring me home.

Now that it was settled that I had no more to teach the dirty children,
out of dirty books, lessons for which they had great disinclination, and
no more to direct Lizer's greasy fingers over the yellow keys of that
demented piano in a vain endeavour to teach her "choones", of which her
mother expected her to learn on an average two daily, it seemed as though
I had a mountain lifted off me, and I revived magically, got out of bed
and packed my things.

I was delighted at the prospect of throwing off the leaden shackles of
Barney's Gap, but there was a little regret mingled with my relief. The
little boys had not been always bold. Did I express a wish for a
parrot-wing or water-worn stone, or such like, after a time I would be
certain, on issuing from my bedroom, to find that it had been
surreptitiously laid there, and the little soft-eyed fellows would
squabble for the privilege of bringing me my post, simply to give me
pleasure. Poor little Lizer, and Rose Jane too, copied me in style of
dress and manners in a way that was somewhat ludicrous but more pathetic.

They clustered round to say good-bye. I would be sure to write. Oh yes,
of course, and they would write in return and tell me if the bay mare got
well, and where they would find the yellow turkey-hen's nest. When I got
well I must come back, and I wouldn't have as much work to do, but go for
more rides to keep well, and so on. Mrs M'Swat very anxiously impressed
it upon me that I was to explain to my mother that it was not her (Mrs
M'Swat's) fault that I "ailed" from overwork, as I had never complained and
always seemed well.

With a kindly light on his homely sunburnt face, M'Swat said, as he put
me on the train:

"Sure, tell yer father he needn't worry over the money. I'll never be
hard on him, an' if ever I could help ye, I'd be glad."

"Thank you; you are very good, and have done too much already."

"Too much! Sure, damn it, wot's the good er bein' alive if we can't help
each other sometimes. I don't mind how much I help a person if they have
a little gratitood, but, damn it, I can't abear ingratitood."

"Good-bye, Mr M'Swat, and thank you."

"Good-bye, me gu-r-r-r-l, and never marry that bloke of yours if he don't
git a bit er prawperty, for the divil's in a poor match."


CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE


Back at Possum Gully


They were expecting me on the frosty evening in September, and the
children came bounding and shouting to meet me, when myself and luggage
were deposited at Possum Gully by a neighbour, as he passed in a great
hurry to reach his own home ere it got too dark. They bustled me to a
glowing fire in no time.

My father sat reading, and, greeting me in a very quiet fashion,
continued the perusal of his paper. My mother shut her lips tightly,
saying exultingly, "It seems it was possible for you to find a worse
place than home"; and that little speech was the thorn on the rose of my
welcome home. But there was no sting in Gertie's greeting, and how
beautiful she was growing, and so tall! It touched me to see she had made
an especial dainty for my tea, and had put things on the table which were
only used for visitors. The boys and little Aurora chattered and danced
around me all the while. One brought for my inspection some soup-plates
which had been procured during my absence; another came with a
picture-book; and nothing would do them but that I must, despite the
darkness, straightaway go out and admire a new fowl-house which "Horace
and Stanley built all by theirselves, and no one helped them one single
bit."

After Mrs M'Swat it was a rest, a relief, a treat, to hear my mother's
cultivated voice, and observe her lady-like and refined figure as she
moved about; and, what a palace the place seemed in comparison to
Barney's Gap! simply because it was clean, orderly, and bore traces of
refinement; for the stamp of indigent circumstances was legibly imprinted
upon it, and many things which had been considered "done for" when
thirteen months before I had left home, were still in use.

I carefully studied my brothers and sisters. They had grown during my
absence, and were all big for their age, and though some of them not
exactly handsome, yet all pleasant to look upon--I was the only wanting
in physical charms--also they were often discontented, and wished, as
children will, for things they could not have; but they were natural,
understandable children, not like myself, cursed with a fevered ambition
for the utterly unattainable.


Oh, were I seated high as my ambition,
I'd place this loot on naked necks of monarchs!


At the time of my departure for Caddagat my father had been negotiating
with beer regarding the sale of his manhood; on returning I found that he
had completed the bargain, and held a stamped receipt in his miserable
appearance and demeanour. In the broken-down man, regardless of manners,
one would have failed to recognize Dick Melvyn, "Smart Dick Melvyn",
"Jolly-good-fellow Melvyn" "Thorough Gentleman" and "Manly Melvyn" of the
handsome face and ingratiating manners, onetime holder of Bruggabrong,
Bin Bin East, and Bin Bin West. He never corrected his family nowadays,
and his example was most deleterious to them.

Mother gave me a list of her worries in private after tea that night. She
wished she had never married: not only was her husband a failure, but to
all appearances her children would be the same. I wasn't worth my salt or
I would have remained at Barney's Gap; and there was Horace--heaven only
knew where he would end. God would surely punish him for his disrespect
to his father. It was impossible to keep things together much longer,
etc., etc.

When we went to bed that night Gertie poured all her troubles into my ear
in a jumbled string. It was terrible to have such a father. She was
ashamed of him. He was always going into town, and stayed there till
mother had to go after him, or some of the neighbours were so good as to
bring him home. It took all the money to pay the publican's bills, and
Gertie was ashamed to be seen abroad in the nice clothes which grannie
sent, as the neighbours said the Melvyns ought to pay up the old man's
bills instead of dressing like swells; and she couldn't help it, and she
was sick and tired of trying to keep up respectability in the teeth of
such odds.

I comforted her with the assurance that the only thing was to feel right
within ourselves, and let people say whatsoever entertained their poor
little minds. And I fell asleep thinking that parents have a duty to
children greater than children to parents, and they who do not fulfil
their responsibility in this respect are as bad in their morals as a
debauchee, corrupt the community as much as a thief, and are among the
ablest underminers of their nation.

On the morrow, the first time we were alone, Horace seized the
opportunity of holding forth on _his_ woes. It was no use, he was choke
full of Possum Gully: he would stick to it for another year, and then he
would chuck it, even if he had to go on the wallaby. He wasn't going to
be slaving for ever for the boss to swallow the proceeds, and there was
nothing to be made out of dairying. When it wasn't drought it was floods
and caterpillars and grasshoppers.


Among my brothers and sisters I quickly revived to a certain extent, and
mother asserted her opinion that I had not been ill at all, but had made
up my mind to torment her; had not taken sufficient exercise, and might
have had a little derangement of the system but nothing more. It was
proposed that I should return to Barney's Gap. I demurred, and was
anathematized as ungrateful and altogether corrupt, that I would not go
back to M'Swat, who was so good as to lend my father money out of pure
friendship; but for once in my life I could not be made submit by either
coercion or persuasion. Grannie offered to take one of us to Caddagat;
mother preferred that Gertie should go. So we sent the pretty girl to
dwell among her kindred in a land of comfort and pleasure.

I remained at Possum Gully to tread the same old life in its tame narrow
path, with its never-ending dawn-till-daylight round of tasks; with, as
its entertainments, an occasional picnic or funeral or a day in town,
when, should it happen to be Sunday, I never fail to patronize one of the
cathedrals. I love the organ music, and the hush which pervades the
building; and there is much entertainment in various ways if one goes
early and watches the well-dressed congregation filing in. The costumes
and the women are pretty, and, in his own particular line, the ability of
the verger is something at which to marvel. Regular attendants, of
course, pay for and have reserved their seats, but it is in classing the
visitors that the verger displays his talent. He can cull the commoners
from the parvenu aristocrats, and put them in their respective places as
skilfully as an expert horse-dealer can draft his stock at a sale. Then,
when the audience is complete, in the middle and front of the edifice are
to be found they of the white hands and fine jewels; and in the topmost
seat of the synagogue, praying audibly, is one who has made all his
wealth by devouring widows' houses; while pushed away to the corners and
wings are they who earn their bread by the sweat of their brow; and those
who cannot afford good linen are too proud to be seen here at all.

"The choir sings and the organ rings," the uninteresting prayers are
rattled off ("O come, let us worship, and fall down: and kneel before the
Lord, our Maker"); a sermon, mostly of the debts of the concern, of the
customs of the ancients, or of the rites and ceremonies of up-to-date
churchism, is delivered, and the play is done, and as I leave the
building a great hunger for a little Christianity fills my heart.

Oh that a preacher might arise and expound from the Book of books a
religion with a God, a religion with a heart in it--a Christian religion,
which would abolish the cold legend whose centre is respectability, and
which rears great buildings in which the rich recline on silken hassocks
while the poor perish in the shadow thereof.


Through the hot dry summer, then the heartless winter and the scorching
summer again which have spent themselves since Gertie's departure, I have
struggled hard to do my duty in that state of life unto which it had
pleased God to call me, and sometimes I have partially succeeded. I have
had no books or papers, nothing but peasant surroundings and peasant
tasks, and have encouraged peasant ignorance--ignorance being the
mainspring of contentment, and contentment the bed-rock of happiness; but
it is all to no purpose. A note from the other world will strike upon the
chord of my being, and the spirit which has been dozing within me awakens
and fiercely beats at its bars, demanding some nobler thought, some
higher aspiration, some wider action, a more saturnalian pleasure,
something more than the peasant life can ever yield. Then I hold my
spirit tight till wild passionate longing sinks down, down to sickening
dumb despair, and had I the privilege extended to job of old--to curse God
and die--I would leap at it eagerly.


CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR


But Absent Friends are Soon Forgot


We received a great many letters from Gertie for a little while after she
went up the country, but they grew shorter and farther between as time
went on.

In one of grannie's letters there was concerning my sister: "I find Gertie
is a much younger girl for her age than Sybylla was, and not nearly so
wild and hard to manage. She is a great comfort to me. Every one remarks
upon her good looks."

From one of Gertie's letters:


Uncle Julius came home from Hong Kong and America last week, and brought
such a lot of funny presents for every one. He had a lot for you, but he
has given them to me instead as you are not here. He calls me his pretty
little sunbeam, and says I must always live with him.


I sighed to myself as I read this. Uncle Jay-Jay had said much the same
to me, and where was I now? My thoughts were ever turning to the people
and old place I love so well, but Gertie's letters showed me that I was
utterly forgotten and unmissed.

Gertie left us in October 1897, and it was somewhere about January 1898
that all the letters from Caddagat were full to overflowing with the
wonderful news of Harold Beecham's reinstatement at Five-Bob Downs, under
the same conditions as he had held sway there in my day.

From grannie's letters I learnt that some old sweetheart of Harold's
father had bequeathed untold wealth to this her lost love's son. The
wealth was in bonds and stocks principally, and though it would be some
time ere Harold was actually in possession of it, yet he had no
difficulty in getting advancements to any amount, and had immediately
repurchased Five-Bob.

I had never dreamed of such a possibility. True, I had often said were
Harold a character in fiction instead of real life, some relative would
die opportunely and set him up in his former position, but, here, this
utterly unanticipated contingency had arisen in a manner which would
affect my own life, and what were my feelings regarding the matter?

I think I was not fully aware of the extent of my lack of wifely love for
Harold Beecham, until experiencing the sense of relief which stole over
me on holding in my hand the announcement of his return to the smile of
fortune.

He was rich; he would not need me now; my obligation to him ceased to
exist; I was free. He would no longer wish to be hampered with me. He
could take his choice of beauty and worth; he might even purchase a
princess did his ambition point that way.

One of Gertie's letters ran:


That Mr Beecham you used to tell me so much about has come back to live
at Five-Bob. He has brought his aunts back. Every one went to welcome
them, and there was a great fuss. Aunt Helen says he (Mr B.) is very
conservative; he has everything just as it used to be. I believe he is
richer than ever. Every one is laughing about his luck. He was here twice
last week, and has just left this evening. He is very quiet. I don't know
how you thought him so wonderful. I think he is too slow, I have great
work to talk to him, but he is very kind, and I like him. He seems to
remember you well, and often says you were a game youngster, and could
ride like old Nick himself.


I wrote to the owner of Five-Bob desiring to know if what I heard
concerning his good fortune was correct, and he replied by return post:


My dear little Syb,

Yes, thank goodness it is all true. The old lady left me nearly a
million. It seems like a fairy yarn, and I will know how to value it more
now. I would have written sooner, only you remember our bargain, and I
was just waiting to get things fixed up a little, when I'm off at great
tracks to claim you in the flesh, as there is no need for us to wait
above a month or two now if you are agreeable. I am just run to death. It
takes a bit of jigging to get things straight again, but it's simply too
good to believe to be back in the same old beat. I've seen Gertie a good
many times, and find your descriptions of her were not at all overdrawn.
I won't send any love in this, or there would be a "bust up" in the
post-office, because I'd be sure to overdo the thing, and I'd have all
the officials on to me for damages. Gather up your goods and chattels,
because I'll be along in a week or two to take possession of you.

Yr devoted

Hal.


I screwed the letter in two and dropped it into the kitchen-fire.

I knew Harold meant what he had said. He was a strong-natured man of firm
determinations, and having made up his mind to marry me would never for
an instant think of anything else; but I could see what he could not see
himself--that he had probably tired of me, and was becoming enamoured of
Gertie's beauty.

The discordance of life smote hard upon me, and the letter I wrote was
not pleasant. It ran:


To H. A. BEECHAM, Esq.,
Five-Bob Downs Station,
Gool-Gool, N.S.W.

Sir,

Your favour duly to hand. I heartily rejoice at your good fortune, and
trust you may live long and have health to enjoy it. Do not for an
instant consider yourself under any obligations to me, for you are
perfectly free. Choose some one who will reflect more credit on your
taste and sense.

With all good wishes,
Faithfully yrs,
S. Penelope Melvyn.


As I closed and directed this how far away Harold Beecham seemed! Less
than two years ago I had been familiar with every curve and expression of
his face, every outline of his great figure, every intonation of his
strong cultivated voice; but now he seemed as the shadow of a former age.

He wrote in reply: What did I mean? Was it a joke--just a little of my old
tormenting spirit? Would I explain immediately? He couldn't get down to
see me for a fortnight at the least. .

I explained, and very tersely, that I had meant what I said, and in
return received a letter as short as my own:


Dear Miss Melvyn,

I regret your decision, but trust I have sufficient manhood to prevent me
from thrusting myself upon any lady, much less you.

Your sincere friend,
Harold Augustus Beecham.


He did not demand a reason for my decision, but accepted it
unquestionably. As I read his words he grew near to me, as in the days
gone by.

I closed my eyes, and before my mental vision there arose an overgrown
old orchard, skirting one of the great stock-routes from Riverina to
Monaro. A glorious day was languidly smiling good night on abundance of
ripe and ripening fruit and flowers. The scent of stock and the merry cry
of the tennis-players filled the air. I could feel Harold's wild jolting
heart-beats, his burning breath on my brow, and his voice husky with rage
in my ear. As he wrote that letter I could fancy the well-cut mouth
settling into a sullen line, as it had done on my birthday when, by
caressing, I had won it back to its habitual pleasant expression; but on
this occasion I would not be there. He would be angry just a little
while--a man of his strength and importance could not long hold ill-will
towards a woman, a girl, a child! as weak and insignificant as I. Then
when I should meet him in the years to come, when he would be the
faithful and loving husband of another woman, he would be a little
embarrassed perhaps; but I would set him at his case, and we would laugh
together re what he would term our foolish young days, and he would like
me in a brotherly way. Yes, that was how it would be. The tiny note
blackened in the flames.

So much for my romance of love! It had ended in a bottle of smoke, as all
my other dreams of life bid fair to do.

I think I was not fully aware how near I had been to loving Harold
Beecham until experiencing the sense of loss which stole over me on
holding in my hand the acceptance of his dismissal. It was a something
gone out of my life, which contained so few somethings, that I
crushingly felt the loss of any one.


Our greatest heart-treasure is a knowledge that there is in creation an
individual to whom our existence is necessary--some one who is part of our
life as we are part of theirs, some one in whose life we feel assured our
death would leave a gap for a day or two. And who can be this but a
husband or wife? Our parents have other children and themselves, our
brothers and sisters marry and have lives apart, so with our friends; but
one's husband would be different. And I had thrown behind me this chance;
but in the days that followed I knew that I had acted wisely.

Gertie's letters would contain: "Harold Beecham, he makes me call him
Harry, took me to Five-Bob last week, and it was lovely fun."

Again it would be: "Harry says I am the prettiest little girl ever was,
Caddagat or anywhere else, and he gave me such a lovely bracelet. I wish
you could see it."

Or this:


We all went to church yesterday. Harry rode with me. There is to be a
very swell ball at Wyambeet next month, and Harry says I am to keep
nearly all my dances for him. Frank Hawden sailed for England last week.
We have a new jackeroo. He is better-looking than Frank, but I don't like
him as well.


Grannie's and aunt Helen's letters to my mother corroborated these
admissions. Grannie wrote:


Harry Beecham seems to be very much struck with Gertie. I think it would
be a good thing, as he is immensely rich, and a very steady young fellow
into the bargain. They say no woman could live with him on account of his
temper; but he has always been a favourite of mine, and we cannot expect
a man without some faults.


Aunt Helen remarked:


Don't he surprised if you have young Beecham down there presently on an
"asking papa" excursion. He spends a great deal of time here, and has
been inquiring the best route to Possum Gully. Do you remember him? I
don't think he was here in your day. He is an estimable and likeable
young fellow, and I think will make a good husband apart from his wealth.
He and Gertie present a marked contrast.


Sometimes on reading this kind of thing I would wax rather bitter. Love,
I said, was not a lasting thing; but knowledge told me that it was for
those of beauty and winsome ways, and not for me. I was ever to be a
lonely-hearted waif from end to end of the world of love--an alien among
my own kin.

But there were other things to worry me. Horace had left the family roof.
He averred he was "full up of life under the old man's rule. It was too
slow and messed up." His uncle, George Melvyn, his father's eldest
brother, who had so often and so kindly set us up with cows, had offered
to take him, and his father had consented to let him go. George Melvyn
had a large station outback, a large sheep-shearing machine, and other
improvements. Thence, strong in the hope of sixteen years, Horace set out
on horseback one springless spring morning ere the sun had risen, with
all his earthly possessions strapped before him. Bravely the horse
stepped out for its week's journey, and bravely its rider sat, leaving me
and the shadeless, wooden sun-baked house on the side of the hill, with
the regretlessness of teens--especially masculine teens. I watched him
depart until the clacking of his horse's hoofs grew faint on the stony
hillside and his form disappeared amid the she-oak scrub which crowned
the ridge to the westward. He was gone. Such is life. I sat down and
buried my face in my apron, too miserable even for tears. Here was
another article I ill could spare wrenched from my poorly and sparsely
furnished existence.

True, our intercourse had not always been carpeted with rose-leaves. His
pitiless scorn of my want of size and beauty had often given me a
sleepless night; but I felt no bitterness against him for this, but
merely cursed the Potter who had fashioned the clay that was thus
described.

On the other hand, he was the only one who had ever stood up and said a
word of extenuation for me in the teeth of a family squall. Father did
not count; my mother thought me bad from end to end; Gertie, in addition
to the gifts of beauty and lovableness, possessed that of holding with
the hare and running with the hound; but Horace once had put in a word
for me that I would never forget. I missed his presence in the house, his
pounding of the old piano with four dumb notes in the middle, as he
bawled thereto rollicking sea and comic songs; I missed his energetic
dissertations on spurs, whips, and blood-horses, and his spirited
rendering of snatches of Paterson and Gordon, as he came in and out,
banging doors and gates, teasing the cats and dogs and tormenting the
children.


CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE


The 3rd of December 1898


It was a very hot day. So extreme was the heat that to save the lives of
some young swallows my father had to put wet bags over the iron roof
above their nest. A galvanized-iron awning connected our kitchen and
house: in this some swallows had built, placing their nest so near the
iron that the young ones were baking with the heat until rescued by the
wet bagging. I had a heavy day's work before me, and, from my exertions
of the day before, was tired at the beginning. Bush-fires had been raging
in the vicinity during the week, and yesterday had come so close that I
had been called out to carry buckets of water all the afternoon in the
blazing sun. The fire had been allayed, after making a gap in one of our
boundary fences. Father and the boys had been forced to leave the
harvesting of the miserable pinched wheat while they went to mend it, as
the small allowance of grass the drought gave us was precious, and had to
be carefully preserved from neighbours' stock.

I had baked and cooked, scrubbed floors and whitewashed hearths, scoured
tinware and cutlery, cleaned windows, swept yards, and discharged
numerous miscellaneous jobs, and half-past two in the afternoon found me
very dirty and very tired, and with very much more yet to do.

One of my half-starved poddy calves was very ill, and I went out to
doctor it previous to bathing and tidying myself for my finishing
household duties.

My mother was busy upon piles and piles of wearying mending, which was
one of the most hopeless of the many slaveries of her life. This was hard
work, and my father was slaving away in the sun, and mine was arduous
labour, and it was a very hot day, and a drought-smitten and a long day,
and poddy calves ever have a tendency to make me moralize and snarl. This
was life, my life and my parents' life, and the life of those around us,
and if I was a good girl and honoured my parents I would he rewarded with
a long stretch of it. Yah!

These pagan meditations were interrupted by a footfall slowly
approaching. I did not turn to ascertain who it might be, but trusted it
was no one of importance, as the poddy and I presented rather a grotesque
appearance. It was one of the most miserable and sickly of its miserable
kind, and I was in the working uniform of the Australian peasantry. My
tattered skirt and my odd and bursted boots, laced with twine, were
spattered with whitewash, for coolness my soiled cotton blouse hung
loose, an exceedingly dilapidated sun-bonnet surmounted my head, and a
bottle of castor-oil was in my hand.

I supposed it was one of the neighbours or a tea-agent, and I would send
them to mother.

The footsteps had come to a halt beside me.

"Could you tell me if--"

I glanced upwards. Horrors! There stood Harold Beecham, as tall and broad
as of yore, even more sunburnt than ever, and looking very stylish in a
suit of grey and a soft fashionable dinted-in hat; and it was the first
time I had ever seen him in a white shirt and high collar.

I wished he would explode, or I might sink into the ground, or the calf
would disappear, or that something might happen.

On recognizing me his silence grew profound, but an unmistakable
expression of pity filled his eyes and stung me to the quick.

I have a faculty of self-pity, but my pride promptly refuses the
slightest offer of sympathy from another.

I could feel my heart grow as bitterly cold as my demeanour was icily
stiff, when I stood up and said curtly:

"This is a great surprise, Mr Beecham."

"Not an unpleasant one, I hope," he said pleasantly.

"We will not discuss the matter. Come inside out of the heat."

"I'm in no hurry, Syb, and couldn't I help you with that poor little
devil?"

"I'm only trying to give it another chance of life."

"What will you do with it if it lives?"

"Sell it for half a crown when it's a yearling."

"It would pay better to shoot the poor little beggar now."

My Brilliant Career

"No doubt it would the owner of Five-Bob, but we have to be more
careful," I said tartly.

"I didn't mean to offend you."

"I'm not offended," I returned, leading the way to the house, imagining
with a keen pain that Harold Beecham must be wondering how for an instant
he could have been foolish enough to fancy such an object two years ago.

Thank goodness I have never felt any humiliation on account of my mother,
and felt none then, as she rose to greet Harold upon my introduction. She
was a lady, and looked it, in spite of the piles of coarse mending, and
the pair of trousers, almost bullet-proof with patches, out of which she
drew her hand, roughened and reddened with hard labour, in spite of her
patched and faded cotton gown, and the commonest and most poverty-stricken
of peasant surroundings, which failed to hide that she had not been
always thus.

Leaving them together, I expeditiously proceeded to relieve the
livery-stable horse, on which Harold had come, of the valise, saddle, and
bridle with which it was encumbered, and then let it loose in one of the
grassless paddocks near at hand.

Then I threw myself on a stool in the kitchen, and felt, to the bone, the
sting of having ideas above one's position.

In a few minutes mother came hurrying out.

"Good gracious, what's the matter? I suppose you didn't like being caught
in such a pickle, but don't get in the dumps about it. I'll get him some
tea while you clean yourself, and then you'll be able to help me by and
by."

I found my little sister Aurora, and we climbed through the window into
my bedroom to get tidy. I put a pair of white socks and shoes and a clean
pinafore on the little girl, and combed her golden curls. She was all
mine--slept with me, obeyed me, championed me; while I--well, I
worshipped her.

There was a hole in the wall, and through it I could see without being
seen.

Mother was dispensing afternoon tea and talking to Harold. It was
pleasant to see that manly figure once again. My spirits rose
considerably. After all, if the place was poor, it was very clean, as I
had scrubbed it all that morning, and when I came to consider the matter,
I remembered that men weren't such terrible creatures, and never made one
feel the sting of one's poverty half as much as women do.

"Aurora," I said, I want you to go out and tell Mr Beecham something.

The little girl assented. I carefully instructed her in what she was to
say, and dispatched her. She placed herself in front of Harold--a
wide-eyed mite of four, that scarcely reached above his knee--and clasping
her chubby hands behind her, gazed at him fearlessly and unwinkingly.

"Aurora, you mustn't stand staring like that," said mother.

"Yes, I must," she replied confidently.

"Well, and what's your name?" said Harold laughingly.

"Aurora and Roy. I belong to Sybyller, and got to tell you somesing."

"Have you? Let's hear it."

"Sybyller says you's Mr Beecher; when you're done tea, you'd like me if I
would to 'scort you to farver and the boys, and 'duce you."

Mother laughed. "That's some of Sybylla's nonsense. She considers Rory
her especial property, and delights to make the child attempt long words.
Perhaps you would care to take a stroll to where they are at work, by and
by."

Harold said he would go at once, and accepting Rory's escort, and with a
few directions from mother, they presently set out--she importantly
trudging beneath a big white sun-bonnet, and he looking down at her in
amusement. Presently he tossed her high above his head, and depositing
her upon his shoulder, held one sturdy brown leg in his browner hand,
while she held on by his hair.

"My first impressions are very much in his favour," said mother, when
they had got out of hearing. "But fancy Gertie the wife of that great
man!"

"She is four inches taller than I am," I snapped. "And if he was as big
as a gum-tree, he would he a man all the same, and just as soft on a
pretty face as all the rest of them."


I bathed, dressed, arranged my hair, got something ready for tea, and
prepared a room for our visitor. For this I collected from all parts of
the house--a mat from one room, a toilet-set from another, and so on--till
I had quite an elaborately furnished chamber ready for my one-time lover.

They returned at dusk, Rory again seated on Harold's shoulder, and two of
the little boys clinging around him.

As I conducted him to his room I was in a different humour from that of
the sweep-like object who had met him during the afternoon. I laughed to
myself, for, as on a former occasion during our acquaintance, I felt I
was master of the situation.

"I say, Syb, don't treat a fellow as though he was altogether a stranger,"
he said diffidently, leaning against the door-post.

Our hands met in a cordial grasp as I said, "I'm awfully glad to see you,
Hal; but, but--"

"But what?"

I didn't feel over delighted to be caught in such a stew this afternoon."

"Nonsense! It only reminded me of the first time we met," he said with a
twinkle in his eye. "That's always the way with you girls. You can't be
civil to a man unless you're dressed up fit to stun him, as though you
couldn't make fool enough of him without the aid of clothes at all."

"You'd better shut up," I said over my shoulder as I departed, 1dor you
will be saying something better left unsaid, like at our first meeting.
Do you remember?"

"Do I not? Great Scot, it's just like old times to have you giving me
impudence over your shoulder like that!" he replied merrily.

"Like, yet unlike," I retorted with a sigh.


CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX


Once Upon a Time, when the days were long and hot


Next day was Sunday--a blazing one it was too. I proposed that in the
afternoon some of us should go to church. THE WEAVE
If a given sample is to be reproduced or imitated, it must be analyzed,
and the following hints will greatly facilitate this operation to
the beginner.

Cut the sample straight on two sides, and draw out a number of warp and
filling threads until there is a small fringe of perhaps ¼ of an inch.
This will allow a thread to be raised a little for examination, without
danger of its falling out of the fabric. In most cases it is easier
to dissect the filling side, that is, the interlacing of each warp-thread
in the threads of the filling system. With the help of the microscope or
counting glass we can easily determine over and under how many picks
that thread passes and the points of interlacing are accordingly
marked on designing paper.

This being done for at least the length of a repeat warpways, we take
it out and examine the following thread, and so on until the repeat
filling-ways is complete. It is advisable to ascertain how many picks
ahead or back of the first examined thread the next following one binds
before taking the former out.

A knowledge of the construction of weaves as explained in the foregoing
chapters will enable us to determine the weave of a simple pattern by
merely raising a warp-thread with a needle on any point of interlacing
and counting off how many picks apart from this place it makes an
impression.

2. LENGTH AND WIDTH OF THE FABRIC

To the length and width which the finished product is to have, we
must add a certain allowance for shrinkage and _taking up_ of warp during
weaving.

It may differ from one to ten per cent., according to the texture and
weave of the fabric, and can be ascertained with sufficient accuracy
by stretching out and measuring a thread of warp and filling and comparing
their length with the respective measurements of the sample to be
reproduced.

[Page 69] 3.

THE STOCK AND ITS DYE
Under this heading we must give the particulars as to nature, _twist_,
_quality_ and _size_ of the silk, and the directions for the dyeing, whether
_bright_ or _souple_, and in what colors, also whether to be weighted
or not.

The size is generally ascertained (in practical work) by comparing
it with other silk of which the exact count is known.

Another method is to count the number of cocoon threads which a thread
of the sample contains, adding to that 1/3 or ¼, according to the
quality of the silk; the result will be the count in deniers.

To obtain it in drams, divide the latter number by 17,3 as 1 dram is equal
to 17,3 deniers.

Suppose we find 20 cocoon ends in a thread of silk: add 1/3, and we
have 26-2/3 deniers, which, divided by 17,3 make 1,54 drams.

As silk is always more or less uneven, it is safer to count the
cocoon fibers of several threads and to take average thereof.

It requires the experience of years to judge with any degree of
certainty as to the origin and quality of silk, whether it be "classical,"
"extra," "sublime," etc.

There are machines wherewith to ascertain exactly the twist,
that is, the number of turns the silk has received in the throwing
process.

In the dyeing we distinguish two great classes, of which the names themselves
give a good definition. "Bright" has a brilliant luster, while
"souple" has more of a dull, subdued appearance. To find out whether the
silk has been weighted in the dyeing process, we may compare it with
other silk of which the exact conditions are known, or we may burn
a small quantity of it. Unweighted silk does not burn readily and
leaves a residue of white ashes, while heavy weighted silk burns
lively, leaving black, charry ashes.
[Page 70] 4. REED CALCULATION
We count the number of repeats of the weave in a given space,
generally ¼
or ½ inch, and multiply this with the number of threads one repeat
contains, which gives us the reduction of the warp.The heat was intense. We wiped the perspiration and flies from
our face frequently, and disturbed millions of grasshoppers as we walked.
They had devoured all the fruit in the orchards about, and had even
destroyed many of the trees by eating the bark, and now they were
stripping the briers of foliage. In one orchard we passed, the apricot,
plum, and peach-stones hung naked on their leafless trees as evidence of
their ravages. It was too hot to indulge in any but the most desultory
conversation. We dawdled along. A tiger-snake crossed our path. Harold
procured a stick and killed it, and Stanley hung it on the top wire of a
fence which was near at hand. After this we discussed snakes for a few
yards.

A blue sea-breeze, redolent of the bush-fires which were raging at
Tocumwal and Bombala, came rushing and roaring over the ranges from the
cast, and enshrouded the scene in its heavy fog-like folds. The sun was
obscured, and the temperature suddenly took such a great drop that I felt
chilled in my flimsy clothing, and I noticed Harold draw his coat
together.

Stanley had to go after the cows, which were little better than walking
hides, yet were yarded morning and evening to yield a dribble of milk. He
left us among some sallie-trees, in a secluded nook, walled in by briers,
and went across the paddock to roundup the cows. Harold and I came to a
halt by tacit consent.

"Syb, I want to speak to you," he said earnestly, and then came to a dead
stop.

"Very well; 'tear into it,' as Horace would say; but if it is anything
frightful, break it gently," I said flippantly.

"Surely, Syb, you can guess what it is I have to say."

Yes, I could guess, I knew what he was going to say, and the knowledge
left a dull bitterness at my heart. I knew he was going to tell me that I
had been right and he wrong--that he had found some one he loved better
than me, and that some one being my sister, he felt I needed some
explanation before he could go in and win; and though I had refused him
for want of love, yet it gave me pain when the moment arrived that the
only man who had ever pretended to love me was going to say he had been
mistaken, and preferred my sister.

There was silence save for the whirr of the countless grasshoppers in the
brier bushes. I knew he was expecting me to help him out, but I felt
doggedly savage and wouldn't. I looked up at him. He was a tall grand
man, and honest and true and rich. He loved my sister; she would marry
him, and they would he happy. I thought bitterly that God was good to one
and cruel to another--not that I wanted this man, but why was I so
different from other girls?

But then I thought of Gertie, so pretty, so girlish, so understandable,
so full of innocent winning coquetry. I softened. Could any one help
preferring her to me, who was strange, weird, and perverse--too outspoken
to be engaging, devoid of beauty and endearing little ways? It was my own
misfortune and nobody's fault that my singular individuality excluded me
from the ordinary run of youthful joyous-heartednesses, and why should I
be nasty to these young people?

I was no heroine, only a common little bush-girl, so had to make the best
of the situation without any fooling. I raised my eyes from the scanty
baked wisps of grass at my feet, placed my hand on Hal's arm, and
tiptoeing so as to bring my five-foot stature more on a level with his,
said:

"Yes, Hal, I know what you want to say. Say it all. I won't be nasty."

"Well, you see you are so jolly touchy, and have snubbed me so often,
that I don't know how to begin; and if you know what I'm going to say,
won't you give me an answer without hearing it?"

"Yes, Hal; but you'd better say it, as I don't know what conditions--"

"Conditions!"--catching me up eagerly at the word. "If it is only
conditions that are stopping you, you can make your own conditions if you
will marry me."

"Marry you, Harold! What do you mean? Do you know what you are saying?" I
exclaimed.

"There!" he replied: I knew you would take it as an insult. I believe you
are the proudest girl in the world. I know you are too clever for me; but
I love you, and could give you everything you fancied."

"Hal, dear, let me explain. I'm not insulted, only surprised. I thought
you were going to tell me that you loved Gertie, and would ask me not to
make things unpleasant by telling her of the foolish little bit of
flirtation there had been between us."

"Marry Gertie! Why, she's only a child! A mere baby, in fact. Marry
Gertie! I never thought of her in that light; and did you think I was
that sort of a fellow, Syb?" he asked reproachfully.

"No, Hal," I promptly made answer. I did not think you were that sort of
fellow; but I thought that was the only sort of fellow there was."

"Good heavens, Syb! Did you really mean those queer little letters you
wrote me last February? I never for an instant looked upon them as
anything but a little bit of playful contrariness. And have you forgotten
me? Did you not mean your promise of two years ago, that you speak of
what passed between us as a paltry bit of flirtation? Is that all you
thought it?"

"No, I did not consider it flirtation; but that is what I thought you
would term it when announcing your affection for Gertie."

"Gertie! Pretty little Gertie! I never looked upon the child as anything
but your sister, consequently mine also. She's a child."

"Child! She is eighteen. More than a year older than I was when you first
introduced the subject of matrimony to me, and she is very beautiful, and
twenty times as good and lovable as I could ever be even in my best
moments."

"Yes, I know you are young in years, but there is nothing of the child in
you. As for beauty, it is nothing. If beauty was all a man required, he
could, if rich, have a harem full of it any day. I want some one to be
true."


"The world is filled with folly and sin,
And love must cling where it can, I say;
For beauty is easy enough to win,
But one isn't loved every day,"


I quoted from Owen Meredith.

"Yes," he said, "that is why I want you. Just think a moment; don't say
no. You are not vexed with me--are you, Syb?"

"Vexed, Hal! I am scarcely inhuman enough to be angry on account of being
loved."

Ah, why did I not love him as I have it in me to love! Why did he look so
exasperatingly humble? I was weak, oh, so pitifully weak! I wanted a man
who would be masterful and strong, who would help me over the rough spots
of life--one who had done hard grinding in the mill of fate--one who had
suffered, who had understood. No; I could never marry Harold Beecham.

"Well, Syb, little chum, what do you say?"

"Say!"--and the words fell from me bitterly--"I say, leave me; go and
marry the sort of woman you ought to marry. The sort that all men like. A
good conventional woman, who will do the things she should at the proper
time. Leave me alone."

He was painfully agitated. A look of pain crossed his face.

"Don't say that, Syb, because I was a beastly cad once: I've had all that
knocked out of me."

"I am the cad," I replied. "What I said was nasty and unwomanly, and I
wish I had left it unsaid. I am not good enough to be your wife, Hal, or
that of any man. Oh, Hal, I have never deceived you! "O no; I didn't hear
you come in; but what have you got there?"
"It is only a little box; would you like to have it?

I bought it on purpose for you, as I thought perhaps it would please
you; because it's like that which I gave Cecilia."

"O yes! that out of which she used to give me Barbary drops. I am
very much obliged to you.

I always thought _that_ exceedingly pretty; and this, indeed, is as
like it as possible.

I can't unscrew it; will you try?"
Leonora unscrewed it.

"Goodness!" exclaimed Louisa, "this must be Cecilia's box; look, don't you
see a great L at the bottom of it?"
Leonora's colour changed.

"Yes," she replied calmly, "I see that, but it is no proof that it
is Cecilia's; you know that I bought this box just now of the
pedlar."

"That may be," said Louisa; "but I remember scratching that L with my own
needle, and Cecilia scolded me for it, too.

Do go and ask her if she has lost her box--do," repeated Louisa,
pulling her by the sleeve, as she did not seem to listen.

Leonora indeed did not hear, for she was lost in thought; she was
comparing circumstances, which had before escaped her attention. She
recollected that Cecilia had passed her as she came into the hall,
without seeming to see her, but had blushed as she passed. She remembered
that the pedlar appeared unwilling to part with the box, and was
going to put it again into his pocket with the half-pence; "and why
should he keep it in his pocket and not show it with his other
things?"

Combining all these circumstances, Leonora had no longer any doubt
of the truth; for though she had honourable confidence in her
friends, she had too much penetration to be implicitly credulous.

"Louisa," she began, but at this instant she heard a step, which, by its
quickness, she knew to be Cecilia's, coming along the passage. "If you
love me, Louisa," said Leonora, "say nothing about the box."
"Nay, but why not?

I dare say she has lost it."

"No, my dear, I am afraid she has not." Louisa looked surprised.

"But I have reasons for desiring you not to say any thing about
it."

"Well, then, I won't, indeed."
Cecilia opened the door, came forward smiling, as if secure of a good
reception, and, taking the Flora out of the case, she placed it
on the mantel-piece, opposite to Louisa's bed.

He drew me to him. His eyes were dark and
full of entreaty; his voice was husky.

"Syb, poor little Syb, I will be good to you! You can have what you like.
You don't know what you mean when you say no."

No; I would not yield. He offered me everything--but control. He was a man
who meant all he said. His were no idle promises on the spur of the
moment. But no, no, no, no, he was not for me. My love must know, must
have suffered, must understand.

"Syb, you do not answer. May I call you mine? You must, you must, you
must!"

His hot breath was upon my cheek. The pleasant, open, manly
countenance was very near-perilously near. The intoxication of his love
was overpowering me. I had no hesitation about trusting him. "Cecilia!
Cecilia!" said she, sobbing. "Cecilia!" repeated Leonora; "what of
Cecilia?" "Yes, it was--it was."
"Come along with me," said Leonora, unwilling to have her friend exposed;
"come, and I will get you some more strawberries."

"Oh, I don't mind the strawberries, indeed; but I wanted to have
had the pleasure of giving them to you."

Leonora took her up in her arms to carry her away, but it was too
late.

"What, Cecilia! Cecilia, who won the prize! It could not surely be
Cecilia," whispered every busy tongue.I grew dizzy, and turned my head sharply backwards and took a
long gasping breath, another and another, of that fresh cool air
suggestive of the grand old sea and creak of cordage and bustle and
strife of life. My old spirit revived, and my momentary weakness fled.
There was another to think of than myself, and that was Harold. Under a
master-hand I would be harmless; but to this man I would be as a
two-edged sword in the hand of a novice--gashing his fingers at every
turn, and eventually stabbing his honest heart.

It was impossible to make him see my refusal was for his good. He was as
a favourite child pleading for a dangerous toy. I desired to gratify him,
but the awful responsibility of the after-effects loomed up and deterred
me.

"Hal, it can never be."

He dropped my hands and drew himself up.

I will not take your No till the morning. Why do you refuse me? Is it my
temper? You need not be afraid of that. I don't think I'd hurt you; and I
don't drink, or smoke, or swear very much; and I've never destroyed a
woman's name. I would not stoop to press you against your will if you
were like the ordinary run of women; but you are such a queer little
party, that I'm afraid you might be boggling at some funny little point
that could easily he wiped out."

"Yes; it is only a little point. But if you wipe it out you will knock
the end out of the whole thing--for the point is myself. "I suspected this;
but, i' faith, it is not wise to say what one thinks."

"We shall see what we shall see," and so on--the unmeaning chatter of the
crowd, which merely serves to show that it is at the command of
the first who chooses to sway it.

I thought much that night when all the house was abed. It was tempting.
Harold would he good to me, and would lift me from this life of poverty
which I hated, to one of ease. Should I elect to remain where I was, till
the grave there was nothing before me but the life I was leading now: my
only chance of getting above it was by marriage, and Harold Beecham's
offer was the one chance of a lifetime. Perhaps he could manage me well
enough. Yes; I had better marry him.

And I believe in marriage--that is, I think it the most sensible and
respectable arrangement for the replenishing of a nation which has yet
been suggested. But marriage is a solemn issue of life. I was as suited
for matrimony as any of the sex, but only with an exceptional
helpmeet--and Harold was not he. My latent womanliness arose and pointed
this out so plainly that I seized my pen and wrote:


Dear Harold,

I will not get a chance of speaking to you in the morning, so write.
Never mention marriage to me again. I have firmly made up my mind--it must
be No. It will always be a comfort to me in the years to come to know
that I was loved once, if only for a few hours. It is not that I do not
care for you, as I like you better than any man I have ever seen; but I
do not mean ever to marry. When you lost your fortune I was willing to
accede to your request, as I thought you wanted me; but now that you are
rich again you will not need me. I am not good enough to be your
wife,'for you are a good man; and better, because you do not know you are
good. You may feel uncomfortable or lonely for a little while, because,
when you make up your mind, you are not easily thwarted; but you will
find that your fancy for me will soon pass. It is only a fancy, Hal. Take
a look in the glass, and you will see reflected there the figure of a
stalwart man who is purely virile, possessing not the slightest attribute
of the weaker sex, therefore your love is merely a passing flame. I do
not impute fickleness to you, but merely point out a masculine
characteristic, and that you are a man, and only a man, pure and
unadulterated. Look around, and from the numbers of good women to be
found on every side choose one who will make you a fitter helpmeet, a
more conventional comrade, than I could ever do. I thank you for the
inestimable honour you have conferred upon me; but keep it till you find
some one worthy of it, and by and by you will be glad that I have set you
free.

Good-bye, Hal!

Your sincere and affec. friend,
Sybylla Penelope Melvyn.


Then I crept into bed beside my little sister, and though the air inside
had not cooled, and the room was warm, I shivered so that I clasped the
chubby, golden-haired little sleeper in my arms that I might feel
something living and real and warm.

"Oh, Rory, Rory!" I whispered, raining upon her lonely-hearted tears. "In
all the world is there never a comrade strong and true to teach me the
meaning of this hollow, grim little tragedy--life? Will it always be this
ghastly aloneness? Why am I not good and pretty and simple like other
girls? Oh, Rory, Rory, why was I ever born? I am of no use or pleasure to
any one in all the world!"


CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN


He that despiseth little things, shall fall little by little


I


The morning came, breakfast, next Harold's departure. I shook my head and
slipped the note into his hand as we parted. He rode slowly down the
road. I sat on the step of the garden gate, buried my face in my hands,
and reviewed the situation. I could see my life, stretching out ahead of
me, barren and monotonous as the thirsty track along which Harold was
disappearing. Today it was washing, ironing tomorrow, next day baking,
after that scrubbing--thus on and on. We would occasionally see a
neighbour or a tea-agent, a tramp or an Assyrian hawker. By hard slogging
against flood, fire, drought, pests, stock diseases, and the sweating
occasioned by importation, we could manage to keep bread in our mouths.
By training and education I was fitted for nought but what I was, or a
general slavey, which was many degrees worse. I could take my choice.
Life was too much for me. What was the end of it, what its meaning, aim,
hope, or use?

In comparison to millions I knew that I had received more than a fair
share of the goods of life; but knowing another has leprosy makes our
cancer none the easier to bear.

My mother's voice, sharp and cross, roused me. "Sybylla, you lazy
unprincipled girl, to sit scheming there while your poor old mother is at
the wash-tub. You sit idling there, and then by and by you'll be groaning
about this terrible life in which there's time for nothing but work."

How she fussed and bothered over the clothes was a marvel to me. My frame
of mind was such that it seemed it would not signify if all our clothes
went to the dogs, and the clothes of our neighbours, and the clothes of
the whole world, and the world itself for the matter of that.

"Sybylla, you are a dirty careless washer. You've put Stanley's trousers
in the boil and the colour is coming out of them, and your father's best
white handkerchief should have been with the first lot, and here it is
now."

Poor mother got crosser as she grew weary with the fierce heat and
arduous toil, and as I in my abstraction continued to make mistakes, but
the last straw was the breaking of an old cup which I accidentally pushed
off the table.

I got it hot. Had I committed an act of premeditated villainy I could not
have received more lecturing. I deserved it--I was careless, cups were
scarce with us, and we could not afford more; but what I rail against is
the grindingly uneventful narrowness of the life in which the
unintentional breaking of a common cup is good for a long scolding.

Ah, my mother! In my life of nineteen years I can look back and see a
time when she was all gentleness and refinement, but the polish has been
worn off it by years and years of scrubbing and scratching, and washing
and patching, and poverty and husbandly neglect, and the bearing of
burdens too heavy for delicate shoulders. Would that we were more
companionable, it would make many an oasis in the desert of our lives. Oh
that I could take an all-absorbing interest in patterns and recipes,
bargains and orthodoxy! Oh that you could understand my desire to feel
the rolling billows of the ocean beneath, to hear the pealing of a great
organ through dimly lit arches, or the sob and wail of a violin in a
brilliant crowded hall, to be swept on by the human stream.

Ah, thou cruel fiend--Ambition! Desire!


Soul of the leaping flame,
Heart of the scarlet fire,
Spirit that hath for name
Only the name--Desire!


To hot young hearts beating passionately in strong breasts, the sweetest
thing is motion.

No, that part of me went beyond my mother's understanding. On the other
hand, there was a part of my mother--her brave cheerfulness, her trust in
God, her heroic struggle to keep the home together--which went soaring on
beyond my understanding, leaving me a coward weakling, grovelling in the
dust.

Would that hot dreary day never close? What advantage when it did? The
next and the next and many weeks of others just the same were following
hard after.

If the souls of lives were voiced in music, there are some that none but
a great organ could express, others the clash of a full orchestra, a few
to which nought but the refined and exquisite sadness of a violin could
do justice. Cecilia, though she was capable of acknowledging any of her
faults in public before all her companions, could not humble herself in
private to Leonora; Leonora was her equal, they were her inferiors;
and submission is much easier to a vain mind, where it appears to
be voluntary, than when it is the necessary tribute to justice or
candour.

So strongly did Cecilia feel this truth that she even delayed making any
apology, or coming to any explanation with Leonora, until success
should once more give her the palm.

If I win the bracelet to-day, said she to herself, I will solicit the return
of Leonora's friendship; it will be more valuable to me than even the
bracelet; and at such a time, and asked in such a manner, she surely
cannot refuse it to me. Animated with this hope of a double triumph, Cecilia
canvassed with the most zealous activity; by constant attention and
exertion she had considerably abated the violence of her temper, and
changed the course of her habits. Her powers of pleasing were now
excited, instead of her abilities to excel; and, if her talents appeared
less brilliant, her character was acknowledged to be more amiable;
so great an influence upon our manners and conduct have the objects
of our ambition.

Cecilia was now, if possible, more than ever desirous of doing what
was right, but she had not yet acquired sufficient fear of doing
wrong.

This was the fundamental error of her mind; it arose in a great
measure from her early education.

Her mother died when she was very young; and though her father had supplied
her place in the best and kindest manner, he had insensibly infused into
his daughter's mind a portion of that enterprising, independent spirit,
which he justly deemed essential to the character of her brother. This
brother was some years older than Cecilia, but he had always been the
favourite companion of her youth; what her father's precepts inculcated,
his example enforced, and even Cecilia's virtues consequently became
such as were more estimable in a man than desirable in a female.

All small objects and small errors she had been taught to disregard as
trifles; and her impatient disposition was perpetually leading her
into more material faults; yet her candour in confessing these, she
had been suffered to believe, was sufficient reparation and
atonement.

Leonora, on the contrary, who had been educated by her mother in a manner
more suited to her sex, had a character and virtues more peculiar to a
female; her judgment had been early cultivated, and her good sense employed
in the regulation of her conduct; she had been habituated to that
restraint, which, as a woman, she was to expect in life, and early accustomed
to yield; compliance in her seemed natural and graceful.

Yet, notwithstanding the gentleness of her temper, she was in reality
more independent than Cecilia; she had more reliance upon her own judgment,
and more satisfaction in her own approbation.
CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT



A Tale that is told and a Day that is done


There are others toiling and straining
'Neath burdens graver than mine;
They are weary, yet uncomplaining,--
I know it, yet I repine:
I know it, how time will ravage,
How time will level, and yet
I long with a longing savage,
I regret with a fierce regret.

A. L. GORDON.
Possum Gully, 25th March, 1899


Christmas, only distinguished from the fifty-two slow Sundays of the year
by plum-pudding, roast turkey, and a few bottles of home-made beer, has
been once more; New Year, ushered in with sweet-scented midsummer wattle
and bloom of gum- and box-tree has gone; February has followed, March is
doing likewise, and my life is still the same.

What the future holds I know not, and am tonight so Weary that I do not
care.


Time rules us all. And life, indeed, is not
The thing we planned it out, ere hope was dead;
And then, we women cannot choose our lot.


Time is thorough in his work, and as that arch-cheat, Hope, gradually
becomes a phantom of the past, the neck will grow inured to its yoke.

"I know that new sled will rust its runners if it isn't used
pretty soon.

Sunny must not stay a minute later than you wish him to, and if the
hill is too crowded, let him come home. You can have fun with your sled
in more ways than just using it for coasting, you know, Son."
"Your grandmother and I are going over to Aunt Bessie's for lunch,
dear," Mrs.

Horton said to Sunny Boy, who had
already finished his breakfast.
"Harriet will give you yours.
Don't stay out on the hill longer than half-past eleven.To weary hearts throbbing slowly in hopeless breasts the sweetest thing
is rest.

And my heart is weary. Oh, how it aches tonight--not with the ache of a
young heart passionately crying out for battle, but with the slow dead
ache of an old heart returning vanquished and defeated!

Enough of pessimistic snarling and grumbling! Enough! Enough! Now for a
lilt of another theme:

I am proud that I am an Australian, a daughter of the Southern Cross, a
child of the mighty bush. Michaelmas Day, or the Fate of poor Molly
Goosey.
Alderman's Feast: A new Alphabet.
New Story about the Queen of Hearts, and the Stolen Tarts.
New Pictorial Bible Alphabet.
Toy Shop Drolleries, or Wonders of a Toy Shop.
Travels of Matty Macaroni, the Little Organ Boy.Ah, my sunburnt brothers!--sons of toil and of Australia! I love and
respect you well, for you are brave and good and true. I have seen not
only those of you with youth and hope strong in your veins, but those
with pathetic streaks of grey in your hair, large families to support,
and with half a century sitting upon your work-laden shoulders. I have
seen you struggle uncomplainingly against flood, fire, disease in stock,
pests, drought, trade depression, and sickness, and yet have time to
extend your hands and hearts in true sympathy to a brother in misfortune,
and spirits to laugh and joke and be cheerful.

And for my sisters a great love and pity fills my heart. Daughters of
toil, who scrub and wash and mend and cook, who are dressmakers,
paperhangers, milkmaids, gardeners, and candle-makers all in one, and yet
have time to be cheerful and tasty in your homes, and make the best of
the few oases to be found along the narrow dusty track of your existence.
Would that I were more worthy to be one of you--more a typical Australian
peasant--cheerful, honest, brave!

I love you, I love you. In the arms of the man sleeps Flora. His arm
aches. He dares not change her to his other arm. Lest she wake.

He has undressed her. Gentle hands of a man. He holds her little body,
naked, near his eyes. Her face and her hands, her feet and her knees are
soiled. The rest of her body is white--very white--no bloom upon
her body.

He kisses her black hair.
He lays her away beneath her coverlet.
There is his wife before him. She is straight. Her naked body rises,
column of white flame, from her dun skirt.Nearer he draws to the gum-tree scrubby horizon, turns the clouds to
orange, scarlet, silver flame, gold! Down, down he goes. The gorgeous,
garish splendour of sunset pageantry flames out; the long shadows eagerly
cover all; the kookaburras laugh their merry mocking good-night; the
clouds fade to turquoise, green, and grey; the stars peep shyly out; the
soft call of the mopoke arises in the gullies! With much love and good
wishes to all--Good night! Good-bye!

AMEN