Produced by Curtis Weyant, Charles Aldarondo and PG Distributed
Proofreaders


[Transcriber's note: Part III contains two chapters labeled Chapter VI.]

MIRIAM MONFORT:

_A NOVEL_.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"THE HOUSEHOLD OF BOUVERIE."

    "Fancy, _with_ fact, is just one fact the more."

    "Let this old woe step on the stage again,
    Act itself o'er anew for men to judge;
    Not by the very sense and sight indeed,
    Which take at best imperfect cognizance.
    Since, how heart moves brain, and how both move hand,
    What mortal ever in entirety saw?
    Yet helping us to all we seem to hear,
    For, how else know we save by worth of word?"

BROWNING, "_The Ring and the Book_"

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
549 & 551 BROADWAY.
1873.

DEDICATION

_This book is dedicated to the memory of one most dear, who saw it grow
to completion with pleasure and approbation, during the last happy
summer of a life since darkened by misfortune. Peace be his!_

_MONFORT HALL._

    "Not one friend have we here, not one true heart;
    We've nothing but ourselves."

    "There's a dark spirit walking in our house,
    And swiftly will the destiny close on us.
    It drove me hither from my calm asylum;
    It lures me forward--in a seraph's shape
    I see it near, I see it nearer floating--
    It draws, it pulls me with a godlike power,
    And, lo, the abyss! and thither am I moving;
    I have no power within me--but to move."

    "He is the only one we have to fear, he and his father."

COLERIDGE'S _Translation of Schiller's "Wallenstein"_

MIRIAM MONFORT


       *       *       *       *       *


PART I.

_MONFORT HALL_.

CHAPTER I.


My father, Reginald Monfort, was an English gentleman of good family,
who, on his marriage with a Jewish lady of wealth and refinement,
emigrated to America, rather than subject her and himself to the
commentaries of his own fastidious relatives, and the incivilities of a
clique to which by allegiance of birth and breeding he unfortunately
belonged.

Her own family had not been less averse to this union than the
aristocratic house of Monfort, and, had she not been the mistress of her
own acts and fortune, would, no doubt, have absolutely prevented it. As
it was, a wild wail went up from the synagogue at the loss of one of its
brightest ornaments, and the name of "Miriam Harz" was consigned to
silence forever.

Orphaned and independent, this obloquy and oblivion made little
difference to its object, especially when the broad Atlantic was placed,
as it soon was, between her and her people, and new ties and duties
arose in a strange land to bind and interest her feelings.

During her six years of married life, I have every reason to believe
that she was, as it is termed, "perfectly happy," although a mysterious
disease of the nervous centres, that baffled medical skill either to
cure or to name, early laid its grasp upon her, and brought her by slow
degrees to the grave, when her only child had just completed her fifth
year.

My father, the younger son of a nobleman who traced his lineage from
Simon de Montfort, had been married in his own estate and among his
peers before he met my mother. Poor himself (his commission in the army
constituting his sole livelihood), he had espoused the young and
beautiful widow of a brother officer, who, in dying, had committed his
wife and her orphan child to his care and good offices, on a
battle-field in Spain, and with her hand he had received but little of
this world's lucre. The very pension, to which she would have been
entitled living singly, was cut off by her second marriage, and with
habits of luxury and indolence, such as too often appertain to the
high-born, and cling fatally to the physically delicate, the burden of
her expenses was more than her husband could well sustain.

Her parents and his own were dead, and there were no relatives on either
side who could be called upon for aid, without a sacrifice of pride,
which my father would have died rather than have made. He was nearly
reduced to desperation by the circumstances of the case, when,
fortunately perhaps for both, she suddenly sickened, drooped, and died,
in his absence, during her brief sojourn at a watering-place, and all
considerations were lost sight of at the time, in view of this
unexpected and stunning blow--for Reginald Monfort was devoted, in his
chivalric way, to his beautiful and fragile wife, as it was, indeed, his
nature to be to every thing that was his own. Her very dependence had
endeared her to him, nor had she known probably to what straits her
exactions had driven him, nor what were his exigencies. Perhaps (let me
strive to do her this justice, at least), had he been more open on these
subjects, matters might have gone better. Yet he found consolation in
the reflection that she had been happy in her ignorance of his affairs,
and had experienced no strict privation during their short union,
inevitably as this must later have been her portion, and certainly as,
in her case, misery must have accompanied it.

Her child, in the absence of all near relatives, became his charge, and
the little three-year-old girl, her mother's image, grew into his
closest affections by reason of this likeness and her very helplessness.
Two years after the death of his wife, he espoused my mother, a bright
and beautiful woman of his own age, with whom he met casually at a
banker's dinner in London, and who, fascinated by his Christian graces,
reached her fair Judaic hand over all lines of Purim prejudice, and
placed it confidingly in his own for life, thereby, as I have said,
relinquishing home and kindred forever.

A hundred thousand pounds was a great fortune in those days and in our
then modest republic, and this was the sum my parents brought with them
from England--a heritage sufficiently large to have enriched a numerous
family in America, but which was chiefly centred on one alone, as will
be shown.

My father, a proud, shy, fastidious man, had always been galled by the
consciousness of my mother's Israelitish descent, which she never
attempted to conceal or deny, although, to please his sensitive
requisitions, she dispensed with most of its open observances. That she
clung to it with unfailing tenacity to the last I cannot doubt, however,
from memorials written in her own hand--a very characteristic one--and
from the testimony of Mrs. Austin, her faithful friend and
attendant--the nurse, let me mention here, of my father's little
step-daughter during her mother's lifetime, and her brief orphanage, as
well as of his succeeding children.

Stanch in his love of church and country, we, his daughters, were all
three christened, and "brought up," as it is termed, in the Episcopal
Church, and early taught devotion to its rites and ceremonies. Yet, had
we chosen for ourselves, perhaps our different temperaments might, even
in this thing, have asserted themselves, and we might have embraced
sects as diverse as our tastes were several. I shall come to this third
sister presently, of whom I make but passing mention here. She was our
flower, our pearl, our little ewe-lamb--the loveliest and the last--and
I must not trust myself to linger with her memory now, or I shall lose
the thread of my story, and tangle it with digression.

With my Oriental blood there came strange, passionate affection for all
things sharing it, unknown to colder organizations--an affection in
whose very vitality were the seeds of suffering, in whose very strength
was weakness, perhaps in whose very enjoyment, sorrow. I have said my
mother died of an insidious and inscrutable malady, which baffled friend
and physician, when I was five years old. She had been so long ill, so
often alienated from her household for days together, that her death was
a less terrible evil, less suddenly so, at least, than if each morning
had found her at her board, each evening at the family hearth, and
every hour, as would have been the case in health, occupied with her
children.

My father's grief was stern, quiet, solitary; ours, unreasonable and
noisy, but soon over as to manifestation. Yet I must have suffered more
than I knew of, I think, for then occurred the first of those strange
lethargies or seizures that afterward returned at very unequal intervals
during my childhood and early youth, and which roused my father's fears
about my life and intellect itself, and gave me into the hands of a
physician for many years thereof, vigorous, and healthy, and intelligent
otherwise as I felt, and seemed, and _was_.

It was soon after the first settling down of tribulation in our
household to that flat and almost unendurable calm or level that
succeeds affliction, when a void is felt rather than expressed, and when
all outward observances return to their olden habit, as a car backs
slowly from a switch to its accustomed grooves, that a new face appeared
among us, destined to influence, in no slight degree, the happiness of
all who composed the family of Reginald Monfort.

It was summer. The house in which we lived was partly finished in the
rear by wide and extensive galleries above and below, shaded by movable
_jalousies;_ and, on the upper one of these, that on which our
apartments opened, my father had caused a hammock to be swung, for the
comfort and pleasure of his children. With one foot listlessly dragging
on the floor of the portico so as to propel the hammock, and lying
partly on my face while I soothed my wide-eyed doll to sleep, I lay
swaying in childish fashion when I heard Evelyn's soft step beside me,
accompanied by another, firmer, slower, but as gentle if not as light. I
looked up: a sweet face was bending over me, framed in a simple cottage
bonnet of white straw, and braids of shining brown hair.

The eyes, large, lustrous, tender, of deepest blue, with their black
dilated pupils, I shall never forget as they first met my own, nor the
slow, sad smile that seemed to entreat my affectionate acquaintance. The
effect was immediate and electric. I sat up in the hammock, I stretched
out my hands to receive the proffered greeting, and then remained
silently, child-fashion, surveying the new-comer.

"Kiss me," she said, "little Miriam. Have they not told you of me? I am
Constance Glen--soon to be your teacher."

"Then I think I shall learn," I made grave reply, putting away the thick
curls from my eyes and fixing them once more steadily on the face of the
new-comer. "Yes, I _will_ kiss you, for you look good and pretty. Did my
mother send you here?"

"She is a strange child, Miss Glen," I heard Evelyn whisper. "Don't mind
her--she often asks such questions."

"Very natural and affecting ones," Miss Glen observed, quietly, and the
tears sprang to her violet eyes, at which I wondered. The fact that Alexander
the Treaty Oubrils of 20 July did not wanted to acknowledge that
Senjavin had already experienced, and also knew some Bokel leaders.
The imperial messenger now confirmed what a general joy in the
Slavic camp and throughout the Bocca rise.

On 12 September, on the occasion of the celebration Name of the Tsar,
said Senjavin in secret, that the war will soon be reopened. [43]
It is prepared before, if you have not yet had.

From Corfu came on the orders of General Senjavins Major Popondopuli
with other infantry divisions, which he on the island was in readiness.
The regular Russian army was 3000 men, the number of Bokel and
Montenegrins were 6000 men [44] The Russian fleet consisted of 22
warships, among which 12 vessels were cruisers.

The Bokel also had quite a number of merchant ships, which are now on
the war were used.

These were of course small, but it is easily tractable, and therefore
particularly well suited for the narrow bay di Cattaro, where the
big warships barely able to turn around 9.

The fight at Castelnuovo. The French troops were to the vicinity of
Castelnuovo Advanced.

They tried for the ground to take and to hide in very close proximity to
the Slavic stock.

Therefore, there was already on 14 September is why a small collision
between those troops and a division of volunteers under the command of
Count _Georg Voinovic_ from Castel Nuovo and _Vuko Radonic_ from
Njegusch, with the Frenchman with some losses had to pull back.
[45] To stop the advance of the French people to stop was even the
ship's artillery used by the Russians.

The French had in fact _Ostro_ takes possession of the promontory, a
dot, which dominated the entire Bay, from there Marmont believed the
Russian fleet from the starting block to the bay can. Senjavin
recognized the danger and decided about the French ship with guns when
they are shown on Ostro and to fortify daselbst searched. [46] As
the strong and incessant shooting in the camp at Castel Nuovo was
heard, made everything ready.

On 25 September attacked the Vladika with the French people of the
opposite side. These were forced to leave the promontory and moved to
Molonta strong attachment to their back.

But even in the evening the same day they had to even the Montenegrins
soft, with up to 38 guns and numerous other war material behind, which
was Vladika welcome. The French were always on the edge of the sea
coast and moved slowly back.

Only on the _Debeli Breg_, they dared to resist them, but only for a short
time, they continued their flight to continue. On the second day
they were ever prosecuted.
Alas for human foresight! Alas for affection powerless to save! Alas for
the vanity of mortal effort to contend with Fate!

Our home was in one of the chief Northern cities of that great republic
which has for so many years commanded the admiration, respect, and
wonder, of the whole world. The house we occupied was situated in the
old and fashion-forsaken portion of the city. From its upper windows a
view of the majestic Delaware and its opposite shores was afforded to
the spectator; and the grounds surrounding the mansion were spacious for
those of a city-house, and deeply shaded by elms that had been lofty
trees in the time of General Washington.

Four squares farther on, the roar of commerce swelled and surged, in
storehouse and counting-room, on mart and shipboard and quay; but here
all was quiet, calm, secluded, as in the country, miles beyond.

Two houses besides our own shared the whole square between them, though
ours, the central one, possessed the largest inclosure, and was the
finest residence of the three, architecturally speaking; and the inmates
of these dwellings, with very few exceptions, constituted for years our
whole circle of friends and visitors.

So it will be seen how secluded was the life we led, how narrow the
sphere we moved in, despite our acknowledged wealth, which, with some
other attributes we possessed, had not failed, if desired, to confer on
us both power and position in the society we shunned rather than shared.

To my father's nature, however, retirement was as essential as routine.
He was one of those outwardly calm and inwardly excitable and nervous
people we sometimes encounter without detecting the fire beneath the
marble, the ever-burning lamp in the sarcophagus, unless we lift the lid
of rock to find it--an effort scarcely worth the making in any case, for
at best it lights only a tomb.

Extremely mild and self-contained in manner, and chary of opinion and
expression, he was at the same time a man of strong and implacable
prejudices and even bitter animosities when once engendered. I do not
think his affections kept pace with these. He loved what belonged to
him, it is true, in a quiet, consistent way, and his good breeding and
practised equanimity were alone sufficient to secure the peace, and even
happiness, of a household; but of much effort or self-sacrifice I judge
him to have been incapable.

He was a handsome man in his stiff and military way--well made, tall,
commanding in figure and in demeanor, stately in movement. His features
were regular, his teeth and hair well preserved, especially the first,
his hands and feet aristocratically small and shapely, his manner
vaguely courteous. He was a shy rather than reserved person, for, when
once the ice was broken, his nature bubbled over very boyishly at times,
and his confidence, once bestowed, was irrevocable. Like most men of his
temperament, he was keenly susceptible to deferential flattery, and
impatient of the slightest infraction of his dignity, which he guarded
punctiliously at all points. Bernardo. Long live the king! Francisco. Seyde
her Bernardo? Bernardo. He himself Francisco. You come right
on time for your hour. Bernardo. It has just beaten twelve,
you go to bed, Francisco. Francisco. I thank you very fairly that
their time ablöset me: It is bitterly cold, and I is not good. Bernardo.
Have you had quiet guard? Francisco. There is no mouse stirred. Bernardo.
Well, good night.
Yet this injured feeling pursued him through life and made one of his
peculiarities, so that he drew more and more closely, as years passed
on, into his own shell, which may be said to have comprised his
household, his comforts, his hobbies, and his narrow neighborhood, in
which he was idolized, and the sympathy of which was very soothing to
his fastidious pride.

Nothing so fosters haughtiness and egotism as a sphere like this, and it
may be doubted whether the crowned heads of the world receive more
adulation from their households than men so situated.

From the moment he set his foot on the threshold of his own house, nay,
on the broad, quiet pavement of his own street, with its stately row of
ancient Lombardy poplars on one side, and blank, high-walled lumber-yard
on the other, he felt himself a sovereign--king of a principality! A
reserve unit, he returned in Zavtat.

With 6000 soldiers, he marched against the enemy. The night was dark, it
rained heavily. The French forward has been slowed. They preferred,
however, bravely continued the whole night.
He was shut away from self-complacency (the only
vice to which virtue is subjected) by the melancholy that permeated his
being, and which was probably in his case an inheritance--constitutional,
as it is said to be with things.

Perhaps it will be well to give, in this place, some more vivid idea of
our home, which, after all, like the shell of the sea-fish, most
frequently shapes itself to fit the necessities and habits of its
occupants.

Our house had been built in early times, and was essentially
old-fashioned, like the part of the city in which it was situated.. My
father, soon after his arrival in America, had fancied and purchased
this gloomy-looking gray stone edifice, with its massive granite steps
(imported at great cost, before the beautiful white-marble quarries had
been developed which abound in the vicinity of, and characterize the
dwellings of, that rare and perfect city), and remodelled its interior,
leaving the outside front of the building, with its screens of ancient
ivy, untouched and venerable, and changing only the exterior aspect of
the back of the mansion. Very striking was the contrast between the rear
and front and exterior and interior of "Monfort Hall," as it was
universally called.

The dark panel-work within had all been rent away, to give place to
plaster glossy as marble, or fine French papers, gilded and painted, or
fresco-paintings done with great cost and labor, and indifferent
success. The lofty ceilings and massive walls formed outlines of
strength and beauty to the large and well-ventilated apartments, which
made it easy to render them almost palatial by the means of such
accessories and appliances as wealth commands, and which were lavished
in this instance.

The back of the house was, however, truly picturesque. Here a bay window
was judiciously thrown out; there a portico appended or hanging balcony
added to break the gray expanse of wall or sullen glare of windows; and
a small gray tower or belfry, containing a clock that chimed the hours,
and a fine telescope, rose from the octagon library which my father had
built for his own peculiar sanctum after my mother's death, and which
formed an ell to the building. This time, however, was now over. The
situation had changed. The Vladika knew that his people after so
much bloodshed and so many hostilities with the French are not happy
with the same heart now an alliance would close. He knew too well
the character of this simple people, not his feelings after diplomatic
considerations, but after an inborn justice scale regulated.
These people could not now be someone's friend, the enemy had been
there yesterday.

III. The struggles to Tilsit peace 8. Preparing for the new challenge.
In Slavic camp Castelnuovo awaited with impatience the answer of the Czar
on the grounds of non-delivery of the petition sent Bocca, Lauriston
negotiations failed everywhere. He gave it to, or better said, he
handed them to the just-arrived Generalissimo of the French army for
Dalmatia, the General Marmont. On 2 August reached on this in Ragusa.
He found, as he himself claimed, [37] the army in a very miserable
condition.

The French troops in Dalmatia from the funds should be allocated to
them from the military camp in Italy got. The support, however,
was flawed and irregular. The commissioners of war, the food from Italy
expedierten and those who received the same in Dalmatia, the Army
provided the spoiled grain.
There was vivid sympathy here, and I gave my heart to the
garden-flowers as I never could do to the frailer children of the
hot-house, beautiful as they undeniably are.

"Miriam has really a _vulgar_ taste for Nature, as Miss Glen calls it,"
Evelyn said one day, with a curl of her slight, exquisite lip as she
shook away from her painted muslin robe, the butter-cups, heavy with
moisture and radiant with sunshine, which I had laid upon her knee. "She
ought to have been an Irish child and born, in a hovel, don't you think
so, papa?" and she put me aside superciliously. Dirt and Nature were
synonymous terms with her.

My father smiled and laid down his newspaper, then looked at me a little
gravely as I stood downcast by Evelyn.

"You _are_ getting very much sunburnt, Miriam, there is no doubt of
that. A complexion like yours needs greater care for its preservation
than if ten shades fairer. Little daughter, you must wear your bonnet,
or give up running in the garden in the heat of the day."

"I try to impress this on Miriam all the time," said Mrs. Austin,
coming as usual to aid in the assault, "but she is so hard-headed, it is
next to impossible to make her mindful of what I tell her. Miss Glen is
the only one that seems to have any influence over her nowadays." She
said this with a slight, impatient toss of the head, as she paused in
her progress through the room with a huge jar of currant-jelly, she had
been sunning in the dining-room window, poised on the palm of either
hand, jelly that looked like melted rubies, now to be consigned to the
store-room.

"Well, well, we must have patience," was the rejoinder. "She is
young--impulsive (I wish she were more like you, Evelyn, my dear!), her
mother over again in temperament, without the saving clauses of beauty
and refinement; these she will never attain, I fear, and with much of
the characteristic persistence of that singular race, which in my wife,
however, I never detected, though so much nearer the fountain-head!"
This was said half in soliloquy, but Evelyn replied to it as if it had
been addressed to her--replied, as she often did, by an interrogatory.

"What tribe did her mother belong to, papa?"

"The tribe of Judah, I believe, my love, was that her family traced
their lineage from; but you question as if it were Pocahontas there was
reference to instead of a high-bred Jewish lady!" speaking with
asperity.

"I meant no offence, papa, I assure you," said Evelyn, quietly; "I only
asked for information. Certainly there _is_ something very grand in
being related to King David."

"There is, indeed," said a gentle voice close at hand. Miss Glen had
entered silently as they were speaking. "There was genius in that
strain of blood, Evelyn, nay, more, divinity. Christ claimed such
descent. Let us never forget that! He, the universal brother." She spoke
with feeling and dignity, and led me away, lecturing me greatly as she
did so for not obeying Mrs. Austin as to the sun-bonnet bondage, which
she promised; to make as light as possible by purchasing for me a new
French contrivance called a _calêche_, light and airy and sheltering all
at once.

I was seven years old then, and the understanding was complete between
us that endured to the end, but as yet there was no foreshadowing of her
marriage with my father.

She had been engaged, when she came to us, to a gentleman, who must have
perished at sea soon afterward--a young naval officer who had gone out
on board of the United States sloop-of-war Hornet, the fate of which
vessel is still wrapped in mystery, though that it foundered suddenly
seemed then, as now, the universal opinion. Miss Glen some time before
had made up her mind to this, and was stemming a tide of grief with
great fortitude and resolution, while she was laying the foundations of
character and education in her two very opposite pupils, both of whom
she guided with equal ability.

My father was not unaware of her sufferings, I think, indeed, this
community of sorrow first attracted him toward her, and later he was
confirmed in his admiration of her womanly self-control and beauty of
character, by the development he saw in his children, the work of her
hand. That he was ever profoundly in love with her I do not believe, nor
did she pretend to any passionate regard for him. Respect, friendship,
confidence, mutual esteem, were the foundations of their union, which
certainly promised enduring happiness to all concerned, and which was
looked on with favor by the whole household, not excepting Mrs. Austin
herself.

