For the present the shock of sacrifice threatened his whole career,
                   and his life and mind as well. Again the monastery
                   beckoned him, and now it was his mother's turn
                   to oppose the Church in its effort to engulf this
                   brilliant artist. After a long struggle he yielded
                   to her, but for a time he was a recluse, and his
                   melancholy gradually wore out his health; until
                   at length he was given up for a dying man, and
                   obituary eulogies actually were published. But as
                   Mark Twain wrote of himself:
                   "The reports of his death were greatly exaggerated."
                   
                   When Liszt gave up all hope of entering the
                   Church, he began a restless orgy of effort for mental
                   diversion; all manner of theories and foibles
                   allured him.
                   
                   As Heine said of him, his mind was "impelled to
                   concern itself with all the needs of mankind, impelled
                   to poke its nose into every pot where the good God
                   cooks the future." The theatre offered for a time
                   another form of dissipation than his religious
                   hysteria. He hated concerts, and compared himself
                   to a conjurer or a clever trick poodle; he took
                   up with the Revolution of 1830; Saint-Simonianism enmeshed him;
later he fell under the spell of the Abbé Lamennais.

Then Paganini came to Paris and fascinated and frightened Liszt, as
he frightened the world with his unheard-of fiddling. It was his privilege
to drive Liszt back to the piano with an ambition to rival Paganini;
as rival him he did.

                   Next Berlioz and romanticism fevered his brain,
                   and then in 1831, the twenty-year-old Liszt
                   and the twenty-one-year-old Chopin struck up their historic
friendship, and the two men glittered and flashed in the most
artistic salons of Paris.

                   It was about this time that the Polish Countess Plater said, speaking
of the genial Ferdinand Hiller and the two cronies:
"I would choose Hiller for my friend, Chopin for my husband, Liszt
for my lover."

There seems to have been a snow-storm of love affairs at this period.

It is impossible even to name the flakes. Gossip of course gathered
into the catalogue every woman whom Liszt saw more than once; but
we need not pay this tribute to malice by mentioning the names of
all of Liszt's hostesses. Among those who may be more definitely
suspected of being made victims by, or victimising, him is the
Comtesse Adèle Laprunarède, afterward Duchess de Fleury.Sat. 12th. Colonel Phich[58] had a letter from Major putnom at
tiantiroge[59] he is taken prisoner.[60]

                   [Footnote 58: Fitch.]

                   [Footnote 59: Ticonderoga.]

                   [Footnote 60: The Indian who seized Putnam tied him
                   to a tree, and for a time he was exposed to the
                   cross-fire of the combatants. His garments were
                   riddled by bullets, but, strange to say, not one
                   touched his person. He was carried away in the
                   retreat, his wrists tightly bound with cords. The
                   Indians rejoiced over the capture of their great
                   enemy, and he was doomed to the torture. In the
                   deep forest he was stripped naked, bound to a
                   sapling, wood was piled high around him, the
                   death-songs of the savages were chanted, and the
                   torch was applied. Just then a heavy shower of rain
                   almost extinguished the flames. They were again
                   bursting forth with fiercer intensity, when a
                   French officer, informed of what was going on,
                   darted through the crowd of yelling savages, and
                   released the prisoner. He was delivered to Montcalm
                   at Ticonderoga, then sent to Montreal, and, after
                   being treated kindly, was exchanged for a prisoner
                   taken by Colonel Bradstreet at Frontenac.]

Son. 13th. Day the chief of our men upon duty and the rest went to
meeting the afternoon the text was in the 2nd of timothy the 1st
chapter & 10 verce.

Mon. 14. I had nothing to du I rote a letter to John.

Tues. 15. I was upon picit[61] guard & wet and stormy it was 1 of the
regalars whipt for sleping upon guard.

                   [Footnote 61: Picket.]

Wednesday 16. The ranjers discoverd a scout of French & com in to Fort
Edward and all that were able were ready at a minits warning to day I
sent a Letter to John Lyon.

Thursday 17th. w, p, 31 stripes stil & Nothing to do the Liev.ts fixed
up their tents.

Friday 18th. 6 of our men were ordered to go over to work upon the
Block House over the river I was raly tired at night.

Saturday 19th. I washed My clothes Col fitch at Salatogue.

Sonday 20th. We were almost all out upon duty to work at the High Ways
and in the after noon a very hard shower which sot our tents all
aflote.

Monday 21st. I went down to Fort Mizerey[62] & I heard of John Day's
death at Saletogue this day Morris came up and we lived well.

                   [Footnote 62: Fort Misery was a breastwork at the
                   mouth of Moses's kill, or creek, a short distance
                   from Fort Miller, on the east side of the Hudson.]

Tuesday 22d. I went up the river to look for a horse Steven & I was
cald upon picit guard.

Wednesday 23d. I went out to look oxen and was treated well 1 mans gun
went of and cut of his finger we drove out the 2 men out of the Block
House kep the great Cattle.

Thursday, 24th. I was cald out to guard up teams and to work on the
road & had a Jil of rum for it Zachariah Catlin died at Fort Edward.

Friday 25th. I was cald upon the quorter guard & we heard the great
guns that were fired at the Lake[63] they shot at a mark and our
Provinshals beat them & it made them very mad.

                   [Footnote 63: At Fort George, at the head of Lake
                   George.]

Saturday 26. David Lyon and Barnes sot out to go to Albany sick this
day they held a rigimental Court Mershal upon 3 deserters of Captain
Mathers company one William Cannody & William Clemanon were Judged to
have 1000 Lashes and to day receved 200 & 50 stripes a peace tother
was forgiven.

Sonday 27. I was out upon the works at the great Block House we were
out of provision we drawed for 7 days & but 4 gorn so the regalers
shot Pigeons and our men did so to.

Monday 28th. Every Private in our company was out upon duty that was
able, & about 4 a clock we came in and the orders were that every man
should make ready to fire 3 valleys[64] and first they fired the
cannon at the Fort one after tother round the Fort which is 21 then
the small arms & so 3 rounds a piece and then made a great fire on the
Perrade and played round it & 1 Jil of Rum a man aloud for the frollic
& a Barrel of Beer for a Company[65] & very wet knight.

                   [Footnote 64: Volleys.]

                   [Footnote 65: It was the king's birthday. 
                   WILLIAM C. BULLITT, American Commission to
                   Negotiate Peace.

SIR: You are hereby directed to proceed to Russia for the purpose of
studying conditions, political and economic, therein, for the
benefit of the American commissioners plenipotentiary to negotiate
peace, and all American diplomatic and consular officials are hereby
directed to extend to you the proper courtesies and facilities to
enable you to fulfill the duties of your mission.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
ROBERT LANSING, Secretary of State of the United States of America.
[SEAL.]
Senator KNOX. What is the date of that?

                   

Mr. BULLITT. February 18, 1919. I also received at the same time from
Mr. Joseph C.

                   Grew, the secretary of the American commission, the
                   following [reading]:

AMERICAN COMMISSION TO NEGOTIATE PEACE,
18 February, 1919.

To whom it may concern:

                   
                   I hereby certify that Mr. William C.

                   Bullitt has been authorized by the American commissioners plenipotentiary
to negotiate peace to proceed to Russia, for the purpose of studying
conditions, political and economic, therein, for the benefit of the
commission, and I bespeak for him the proper courtesies and facilities
in enabling him to fulfill the duties of his mission.

J.C.

GREW, Secretary of the American Commission to Negotiate Peace.
[SEAL.]

Senator KNOX. You say you started in February. What time in February?

Mr. BULLITT. I left on the 22d day of February.

Senator KNOX. Did you know at that time, or have you ascertained since,
whether a secret mission had or not been dispatched from Paris, that
is, by the President himself; a man by the name of Buckler, who
went to Russia a few days before you did?

                   Mr. BULLITT. Mr. W.H. Buckler, Mr. Henry White's half
                   brother. He was an attaché of the American embassy
                   in London. He was ordered from there to go, about
                   the 1st of January, to Stockholm, to confer with
                   Litvinov, who had been the Ambassador of the
                   Soviet Government to London--the British had allowed
                   him to stay there without actually recognizing his
                   official status, and had dealt with him.
                   
                   Mr. Buckler there conferred with Litvinov, who made
                   various propositions and representations to him
                   which Mr. Buckler at once telegraphed back
                   to Paris, and which were considered so important
                   by the President that the President read them
                   in extenso to the council of ten on the morning of
                   January 21. I regret that I have no actual copy
                   of those proposals by Litvinov, or of Buckler's
                   telegrams. At that time there was a discussion taking
                   place in regard to Russia which had extended over
                   a couple of weeks, a discussion of the
                   utmost interest, in the council of ten.

                   I happen to have the minutes of the council for January 16, when
this Russian question was taken up, which I shall be glad to read,
if the Senators should be interested, and also the minutes of the
council of ten on January 21, at which meeting the Prinkipos proposal
was decided upon.

The Buckler meeting with Litvinov was what eventually swung the meeting
in favor of Prinkipos, the suggestion for which had been made by Mr.
Lloyd George. No; that is slightly incorrect. Mr. Lloyd George had
suggested that representatives of the various Russian governments
and factions should be brought to Paris.

COUNCIL OF TEN DISCUSSES RUSSIA
NOTES ON CONVERSATIONS HELD IN THE OFFICE OF M. PICHON AT THE QUAI
D'ORSAY, ON JANUARY 16, 1919--PRELIMINARY DISCUSSION REGARDING THE
SITUATION IN RUSSIA.

Mr. Lloyd George commenced his statement setting forth the information
in the possession of the British Government regarding the Russian
situation, by referring to the matter which had been exposed recently
in L'Humanite. He stated that he wished to point out that there
had been a serious misconception on the part of the French Government
as to the character of the proposal of the British Government.

The British proposal did not contemplate in any sense whatever, a
recognition of the Bolsheviki Government, nor a suggestion that
Bolshevik delegates be invited to attend the Conference.

To work in the Fort a wheeling gravel all day 4
regulars whipt in Fort som for gaming & one for being absent after
being warned upon guard.

Thursday 14th. I was warned on Escort down to Mizzery[72] and flankt
all the day Tuesday 12 at night there was 2 Bonfires & 2 Barrels of
Rum aloud for the Rejoicing of Broad Street's taking Catarocrway.[73]

                   [Footnote 72: Fort Misery.]

                   [Footnote 73: The Indian name of the site of Fort
                   Frontenac (where Kingston, Upper Canada, now
                   stands), taken by Colonel Bradstreet, was
                   Cataraqua. That was also the Indian name for Lake
                   Ontario.]

Friday 15th. Day I was to work over upon the Island & worked hard a
shovling dirt &c Ephraim Ellinghood taken poorly.

Saturday 16th. Day I went to cuting fassheens[74] & stented 4 a peace
in half a day & 12 stakes.

                   [Footnote 74: Fascines--bundles of sticks, mixed
                   with earth, and used for filling ditches in the
                   construction of forts.]

Sonday 17th. All our men upon works Mr. Pomri[75] preachd 1 sermon &
his text in James Chapter 5th & 12 verce Stephen child had a post to
Albany and sot out this day one regular com in that was a fishing at
half way Brook.

                   [Footnote 75: Pomeroy.]

Monday 18th. I was to work over to the Block House and took my Farewel
of working their & all our sick were drawd up & som dischargd.

Tuesday 19th. 4 of our company had a final discharge from the Campain
& sot of home Seth Bassit Jonathan Corbin John Peak & Silas Hoges.

Wednesday 20th. Stil Here the main of us & Nothing remarkable only
almost all our woodstock men came up & with great Joy we recived them
& much more the things that were sent us, I receved a letter from Ben
Lyon.

Thursday 21st. Nothing remarkable this day.

Friday 22nd. Our Woodstock Old melisha[76] sot out home & Lieutenant
Smith & Corperal Peak & William Mercy & Samuel Leavins had a pass to
Albany and went with them along down and Many more that did not Belong
to our Company.

                   [Footnote 76: Militia.]

Saturday 23d. Our Post came up and I received a Letter from home.

Sonday 24th. Mr. Pomry[77] preachd one sermon in the middle of the day
so that the work men might Have som opportunity to hear som his text
was in Ezekiel the 37 Chapter & 36 verce I was to work upon the Island
& I heard part of the sermon.[78]

                   [Footnote 77: Pomeroy.]

                   [Footnote 78: The channel between Rogers's island,
                   on which the great blockhouse was built, and Fort
                   Edward, does not exceed two hundred feet in width.]

Monday 25. Nothing remarkable only Stephen Lyon got hurt Samuel Morris
& Chub went down along to Albany.

Tuesday 26th. One scout went out for 3 days this day a great number of
teams came down from the Lake.

Wednesday 27th. The Thompson men that came up to see us sot out for
newingland and sergent Cromba had a pass to Albany & went down along.

Thursday 28th. Nothing remarkable only the scout came in that went out
for 3 days.

Friday 29th. Nothing remarkable only very long orders &c.

Saturday 30th. Nothing remarkable only the crissning[79] of the Royal
Block House and the whole of our rigiment that were able went over to
work and had a good frolick to drink the Men in Jeneral worked well at
the intrenching round the Block House the trench 3 foot deep.

                   [Footnote 79: Christening.]

Sonday October ye 1st. Nothing remarkable but somthing very strange, &
that is the Camps were so stil and no work going foward nor no prayers
nor no sermon & a Jil of Rum into the Bargain this we had from the
Jenerals our month promised to us yesterday Mr. Pomri went down to
Seratoga to see his son that was sick and to day he come back &c.

Monday ye 2nd. All the rigiment that were able to work went over to
the Block House besides what wos upon guard and they were divided into
4 parties and they that got don first was to have the Best fat sheep 1
sheep to each party I was upon the grass Guard & at night I found it
very tedious Lying out for it stormed exceding hard all night.

He conducted her to Liszt. A few days later they visited the prince for
two weeks at one of his castles. The troubles of the revolution and
the barricaded streets drove them from the country to Weimar, where
Liszt had been given the post of Kapellmeister.