
Mr. Payne's first volume appeared as we have seen in 1882.  The last
left the press in 1884.  The work was dedicated to Burton,
who writes, "I cannot but feel proud that he has honoured me with
the dedication of 'The Book of the Thousand Nights and one Night.'
...He succeeds admirably in the most difficult passages, and he
often hits upon choice and special terms and the exact vernacular
equivalent of the foreign word so happily and so picturesquely that
all future translators must perforce use the same expression under
pain of falling far short."

Having finished the Nights, Mr. Payne commenced the translation of
other Eastern stories--which he published under the title of Tales
from the Arabic.[FN#385]


   Chapter XXV
   1883 to May 1885
   The Kama Shastra Society


Bibliography:

69. Publications of the Kama Shastra Society.

                               Author.        Translator.
1. The Kama Sutra.      1883   Vatsyayana.    Bhagvanlal Indraji.
2. The Ananga Ranga.    1885   Kullianmull.          "
3. The Arabian Nights.  1885-1886.  "         Burton.
4. The Scented Garden
   ("My old version").   1886.  Nafzawi.      Burton and others.
5. The Beharistan.      1887.  Jami.          Rehatsek.
6. The Gulistan         1888.  Sadi.              "
    or Rose Garden.

        Works still in Manuscript.

                                         Author.  Translator
7. The Nigaristan                        Jawini.  Rehatsek.
8. The Observances of the Zenanah                     "
9. Etiquette of eating and Drinking                   "
      (A Persian Essay).
10. Physiognomies (A Persian MS.)        Al-R'azy     "
11. Anecdotes from the Nuzhat al Yaman.               "
      (Persian).
12. The Merzuban Namah. (Persian).                     
13. Extracts from Al Mostatraf. (Arabic).              "
14. Extracts from Siraj-ul-moluk. (Arabic).            "
15. Extracts from Tuhfat al akhwan us Safa.*           "

* For further particulars respecting these works see Appendix.


114. The Azure Apollo.


If Payne's translation had been met by the wind, Burton anticipated
that his own, with its blunt faithfulness to the original and its
erotic notes, would be met by whirlwind.  Considering the temper of
the public[FN#386] at the time he thought it not improbable that an
action would be brought against him, and in fancy he perceived
himself standing at bay with the Authorised Version of the Bible in
one hand as a shield, and Urquhart's Rabelais in the other as
a missile.

But though a man of amazing courage, Burton was not one to
jeopardise himself unnecessarily.  He was quite willing to take any
reasonable precautions.  So he discussed the matter with his friend
F. F. Arbuthnot, who had recently returned from India,
married,[FN#387] and settled at a charming place, Upper House Court,
near Guildford.  Mr. Arbuthnot, who, as we have seen, had for years
given his whole soul to Eastern literature, had already published a
group of Hindu stories[FN#388] and was projecting manuals of
Persian[FN#389] and Arabic[FN#390] literature and a series of
translations of famous Eastern works, some of which were purely
erotic.  He now suggested that this series and Burton's Arabian
Nights should be published nominally by a society to which might be
given the appropriate name, "The Kama Shastra"--that is the
cupid-gospel--Society, Kama being the Hindu god of love.  This deity
is generally represented as a beautiful youth riding on an
emerald-plumaged lorry or parrot.  In his hand he holds a bow of
flowers and five arrows--the five senses; and dancing girls attend
him.  His favourite resort is the country round Agra, where
Krishna[FN#391] the azure Hindu Apollo,

   "Tunes harps immortal, and to strains divine
    Dances by moonlight with the Gopia nine."[FN#392]

The books were to be translated by Rehatsek and a Hindu pundit named
Bhagvanlal Indraji, Burton and Arbuthnot were to revise and
annotate, and Arbuthnot was to find the money.  Burton fell in with
the idea, as did certain other members of Arbuthnot's circle,
who had always been keenly interested in Orientalism, and so was
formed the famous Kama Shastra Society.  That none of the
particulars relating to the history of the Society has before been
made public, is explained by the fact that Burton and Arbuthnot,
conversant with the temper of the public, took pains to shroud their
proceedings in mystery.  It cannot, however, be too strongly
insisted upon that Arbuthnot's standpoint, like Burton's, was solely
for the student.  "He wished," he said, "to remove the scales from
the eyes of Englishmen who are interested in Oriental literature."
These erotic books in one form or another are in the hands of
200,000,000 of Orientals.  Surely, argued Arbuthnot, a few genuine
English students--a few, grave, bald-headed, spectacled, happily
married old gentlemen--may read them without injury.[FN#393]
The modern student seeks his treasure everywhere, and cares not
into what midden he may probe so long as he finds it.  No writer on
18th century French History, for example, would nowadays make half
apologies, as Carlyle did, for having read Casanova.  Indeed,
he would lay himself open to censure unless he admitted having
studied it carefully.  Still, every genuine and right-minded student
regards it as a duty to keep books such as these, which are unsuited
for the general public, under lock and key--just as the medical man
treats his books of plates and other reference volumes.  Then again
it is entirely a mistake to suppose that the works issued or
contemplated by the Kama Shastra Society were all of them erotic.
Two out of the six actually done: The Beharistan and The Gulistan,
and the whole of the nine still in manuscript, might, after a snip
or two with the scissors, be read aloud in almost any company.

We have the first hint of the Kama Shastra Society in a letter to
Payne, 5th August 1882.  "I hope," says Burton, "you will not forget
my friend, F. F. Arbuthnot, and benefit him by your advice about
publishing when he applies to you for it.  He has undertaken a
peculiar branch of literature--the Hindu Erotic, which promises
well."  On Dec. 23th he writes: "My friend Arbuthnot writes to me
that he purposes calling upon you.  He has founded a society
consisting of himself and myself."  After further reference to the
idea he adds, "I hope that you will enjoy it."  A few days later
Mr. Arbuthnot called on Mr. Payne.  Mr. Payne did not "enjoy"
the unfolding of the Kama Shastra scheme, he took no interest in it
whatever; but, of course, he gave the information required as to
cost of production; and both then and subsequently assisted in other
matters of business.  Moreover, to Mr. Arbuthnot himself, as a man
of great personal charm, Mr. Payne became sincerely attached, and a
friendship resulted that was severed only by death.

The arrangement about financing the books did not, of course,
apply to The Arabian Nights.  That was Burton's own affair; for its
success was supposed to be assured from the first.  Of the books
other than The Arabian Nights published by the Kama Shastra
Society--each of which purported, facetiously, to be printed at
Behares, the name which Burton chose to give to Stoke Newington,
we shall now give a brief account.

Several, we said, are erotic.  But it should be clearly understood
what is here meant by the term.  The plays of Wycherley and other
Caroline dramatists are erotic in a bad sense.  We admit their
literary qualities, but we cannot hide from ourselves the fact that
they were written by libertines and that an attempt is made to
render vice attractive.  The injured husband, for example,
is invariably ridiculed, the adulterer glorified.  The Hindu books,
on the other hand, were written by professedly religious men whose
aim was "not to encourage chambering and wantonness, but simply and
in all sincerity to prevent the separation of husband and wife"--
not to make them a married couple look afield, but "to lead them to
love each other more by understanding each other better."  Vatsyayan
and Kullianmull,[FN#394] indeed, though they poetized the pleasures
of the flesh, would have been horrified could they have read the
plays of Wycherley and Etheridge.  The erotic books that Arbuthnot
wished to be translated were the following--all by Hindu poets more
or less famous:--

   The Kama Sutra (Book of Love) by Vatsyayana.
   Ananga Ranga (Stage of Love) by Kullianmull.
   Ratirahasya (Secrets of Love) by Kukkoka.
   Panchasakya (The Five Arrows) by Jyotirisha.
   Smara Pradipa (Light of Love) by Gunakara.
   Ratimanjari (Garland of Love) by Jayadeva.
   Rasmanjari (Sprout of Love) by Bhanudatta.

Of these seven books two only were issued, namely the Kama Sutra and
the Ananga Ranga or Lila Shastra.  The precise share that
Burton[FN#395] had in them will never be known.  It is sufficient
to say that he had a share in both, and the second, according to
the title page, was "translated from the Sanskrit and annotated by
A. F. F. and B. F. R.," that is F. F. Arbuthnot and Richard Francis
Bacon--the initials being purposely reversed.


115. The Kama Sutra.


When commencing upon The Kama Sutra, Indraji--for he was the actual
translator--found his copy, which had been procured in Bombay, to be
defective, so he wrote to Benares, Calcutta and Jeypoor for copies
of the manuscripts preserved in the Sanskrit libraries of those
places.  These having been obtained and compared with each other,
a revised copy of the entire work was compiled and from this Indraji
made his translation.  "This work," he says, "is not to be used
merely as an instrument for satisfying our desires.  A person
acquainted with the true principles of this science, who preserved
his Dharma (virtue or religious merit), his Artha (worldly wealth)
and his Kama (pleasure, or sensual gratification), and who has
regard to the customs of the people, is sure to obtain the mastery
over his senses.  In short, an intelligent and knowing person,
attending to Dharma, and Artha and also to Kama, without becoming
the slave of his passions, will obtain success in everything that he
may do."  According to Vatsyayana, Kama should be taught just as is
taught--say, hygiene or political economy.  "A man practising
Dharma, Artha and Kama enjoys happiness both in this world and in
the world to come."  It must not be supposed that the work is
entirely erotic.  There are also directions for one's conduct at
religious festivals, especially that in honour of Saraswati,[FN#396]
picnics, drinking parties and other social gatherings.  Still, the
erotic preponderates.  The work is mainly a handbook on Love.
One is informed respecting what women are or are not worthy
of affection.  There are full instructions respecting kissing,
an art which is not so easy to learn as some persons think.  Still,
a man who could not kiss properly after reading the Kama Sutra would
be a dullard indeed.  Some of the remarks are quaint enough.
Thus we are told that "nothing tends to increase love so much as
the effects of marking with the nails[FN#397] and biting."
Some girls when asked in marriage are slow to make up their minds.
With that situation there are, it seems, several ways of dealing.
The simplest is the following: "When the girl goes to a garden,
or to some village in the neigbourhood, the man should, with his
friends, fall on her guards, and having killed them, or frightened
them away, forcibly carry her off."  Sometime it is the man who is
shy.  In such cases the girl "should bring him to her house under
the pretence of seeing the fights of quails, cocks and rams,
of hearing the maina (a kind of starling) talk .... she should also
amuse him for a long time by telling him such stories and doing such
things as he may take most delight in."

For Edwin and Angelina when they get married there is also much
wholesome instruction.  "The wife, whether she be a woman of noble
family or a virgin widow re-married,[FN#398] should lead a chaste
life."  "When the man sets out on a journey she should make him
swear that he will return quickly.[FN#399] ... When the man does
return home she should worship the God Kama."  Ladies will be
interested to learn that there are twenty-seven artifices by which a
woman can get money out of a man.  One is "Praising his intelligence
to his face."  Then there are useful directions for the personal
adornment of both sexes.  "If the bone of a peacock or of a hyena
be covered with gold and tied to the right hand, it makes a man
lovely in the eyes of other people."

Of the essential portions of the book it is sufficient to say that
they are similar to those of the other avowedly erotic Eastern
works, the contents of the principal of which have been touched upon
by Burton in the Terminal Essay to his Arabian Nights and in some of
his notes.  Finally we are told that the Kama Sutra was composed for
the benefit of the world by Vatsyayana, while leading the life of a
religious student, and wholly engaged in the contemplation of the
Deity.  At the same time, the teaching of this holy man amounts to
very much the same as that of Maupassant, which is, to use Tolstoy's
words, "that life consists in pleasures of which woman with her love
is the chief, and in the double, again reflected delight of
depicting this love and exciting it in others."[FN#400]

The work lets a flood of light on Hindu manners and customs;
and it must be borne in mind that the translation was issued
privately at a high price and intended only for "curious students."
In the Preface, Burton and Arbuthnot observe that after a perusal of
the Hindoo work the reader will understand the subject upon which it
treats, "At all events from a materialistic, realistic and practical
point of view.  If all science is founded more or less on a stratum
of facts, there can be no harm in making known to mankind generally
certain matters intimately connected with their private, domestic
and social life.  Alas! complete ignorance of them has unfortunately
wrecked many a man and many a woman, while a little knowledge of a
subject generally ignored by the masses would have enabled numbers
of people to understand many things which they believed to be quite
incomprehensible, or which were not thought worthy of their
consideration."

Writing to Payne, 15th January, 1883, Burton says, "Has Arbuthnot
sent you his Vatsyayana?[FN#401]  He and I and the Printer have
started a Hindu Kama Shastra (Ars Amoris Society).  It will make the
Brit(ish) Pub(lis) stare.  Please encourage him."  Later Arbuthnot,
in reply to a question put to him by a friend, said that the Society
consisted practically of himself, Sir Richard Burton and the late
Lord Houghton.[FN#402]


   Chapter XXVI
   The Ananga Ranga or Lila Shastra


Bibliography:

70. The Book of the Sword.  1884.


116. The Ananga Ranga.[FN#403]


The title page of the second book, the Ananga Ranga, which was
issued in 1885, was as follows:


              ANANGA RANGA
        (Stage of the Bodiless One)
                   or
         THE HINDU ART OF LOVE
          (Ars Amoris Indica)
     Translated from the Sanskrit
              and annotated
                   by
         A. F. F. and B. F. R.

Cosmopoli MDCCCLXXXV, for the Kama Shastra Society of London and
Benares, and for private circulation only.

Dedicated to that small portion of the British Public which takes
enlightened interest in studying the manners and customs of the
olden East.

We are told that this book was written about 1450 by the arch-poet
Kalyana Mull,[FN#404] that lithographed copies have been printed by
hundreds of thousands, that the book is in the hands of almost every
one "throughout the nearer East," and also that it is
"an ethnological treasure, which tells us as much of Hindu human
nature as The Thousand Nights and a Night of Arab manners and
customs in the cinquecento."  In India the book is known as the
Kama Shastra or Lila Shastra, the Scripture of Play or Amorous
Sport.  The author says quaintly, "It is true that no joy in the
world of mortals can compare with that derived from the knowledge of
the Creator.  Second, however, and subordinate only to his are
the satisfaction and pleasure arising from the possession of a
beautiful woman."

"From the days of Sotades and Ovid," says the writer of the Preface,
who is certainly Burton, "to our own time, Western authors have
treated the subject either jocularly or with a tendency to hymn the
joys of immorality, and the gospel of debauchery.  The Indian author
has taken the opposite view, and it is impossible not to admire the
delicacy with which he has handled an exceedingly difficult theme.
....Feeling convinced that monogamy is a happier state than
polygamy, he would save the married couple from the monotony and
satiety which follow possession, by varying their pleasures in every
conceivable way and by supplying them with the means of being
psychically pure and physically pleasant to each other."

There is a reference to this work in Burton's Vikram and the
Vampire, where we read:[FN#405] "As regards the neutral state,
that poet was not happy in his ideas who sang,

   'Whene'er indifference appears, or scorn,
     Then, man, despair! then, hapless lover, mourn!'

for a man versed in the Lila Shastra can soon turn a woman's
indifference into hate, which I have shown is as easily permuted
to love."

This curious book concludes: "May this treatise, Ananga Ranga,
be beloved of man and woman, as long as the Holy River Ganges,
springeth from Shiva with his wife Gauri on his left side;
as long as Lakshmi loveth Vishnu; as long as Brahma is engaged in
the study of the Vedas, and as long as the earth, the moon and the
sun endure."

The Kama Shastra Society also issued a translation of the first
twenty chapters of The Scented Garden.[FN#406]  In reality it was a
translation of the French version of Liseux, but it was imperfect
and had only a few notes.  It has been repeatedly denied that Burton
had anything to do with it.  All we can say is that in a letter to
Mr. A. G. Ellis of 8th May 1887, he distinctly calls it "my old
version,"[FN#407] and he must mean that well-known edition of 1886,
because all the other impressions are like it, except in respect to
the title page.


117. The Beharistan, 1887.


The Society now determined to issue unexpurgated editions of the
three following great Persian classics:

The Gulistan or Rose Garden, by Sadi (A.D. 1258).
The Nigaristan or Picture Gallery, by Jawini (A.D. 1334).
The Beharistan or Abode of Spring, by Jami (A.D. 1487).

The first to appear was The Beharistan in 1887.  Jami, the author,
is best known in England on account of his melodious poems Salaman
and Absal, so exquisitely rendered by Edward FitzGerald, and
Ysuf and Zuleika (Joseph and Potiphar's Wife), familiar
to Englishmen mainly through Miss Costello's fragrant
adaptation.[FN#408]  To quote from the Introduction of the
translation of The Beharistan, which is written in Arbuthnot's bald
and hesitating style, "there is in this work very little indeed to
be objected to.  A few remarks or stories scattered here and there
would have to be omitted in an edition printed for public use or for
public sale.  But on the whole the author breathes the noblest and
purest sentiments, and illustrates his meanings by the most
pleasing, respectable, and apposite tales, along with numerous
extracts from the Koran."  The work consists of stories and verses--
two or three of which will be found in our Appendix--pleasantly
intermingled; but as Rehatsek, the translator, made no attempt to
give the verses rhythmical form, only an inadequate idea is conveyed
of the beauty of the original.  It would require an Edward
FitzGerald or a John Payne to do justice to Jami's jewelled verses.


118. The Gulistan, 1888.


The Gulistan of Sadi,[FN#409] which was the next book issued,
is best known in England from the translations by James Ross (1823)
and Edward B. Eastwick (1852).  Sadi's aim was to make "a garden of
roses whose leaves the rude hand of the blast of Autumn could not
affect."[FN#410]  "The very brambles and rubbish of this book," says
an ancient enthusiastic admirer, "are of the nature of ambergris."
Men treasured the scraps of Sadi's writing "as if they were gold
leaf," and The Gulistan has attained a popularity in the East "which
has never been reached in this Western world."  The school-boy lisps
his first lessons in it, the pundit quotes it, and hosts of its
sayings have become proverbial.  From end to end the "unity,
the unapproachable majesty, the omnipotence, the long-suffering
and the goodness of God" are nobly set forth--the burden of every
chapter being:

   "The world, my brother! will abide with none,
    By the world's Maker let thy heart be won."


119. The Nigaristan.


The third of the great trio, Jawini's Nigaristan, did not reach the
press owing to Arbuthnot's death.  The manuscript, however,
in Rehatsek's hand-writing, is still in the possession of the Royal
Asiatic Society, 22, Albermarle Street, and we trust to see it some
day suitably edited and published.  Arbuthnot, who contributes the
preface, points out that it contains 534 stories in prose and verse,
and that it abounds "in pure and noble sentiments, such as are to be
found scattered throughout the Sacred Books of the East, the Old and
New Testaments and the Koran."  A few citations from it will be
found in our Appendix.


120. Letters to Payne, 19th January 1884.


On January 19th, Burton, after asking for the remaining volumes of
Mr. Payne's Nights, says "A friend here is reading them solemnly and
with huge delight: he would be much disappointed to break off
perforce half way.  When do you think the 9 vols. will be finished?
Marvellous weather here.  I am suffering from only one thing, a want
to be in Upper Egypt.  And, of course, they won't employ me.  I have
the reputation of 'independent,' a manner of 'Oh! no, we never
mention it, sir,' in the official catalogue, and the one
unpardonable Chinese Gordon has been sacked for being 'eccentric,'
which Society abominates.  England is now ruled by irresponsible
clerks, mostly snobs.  My misfortunes in life began with not being
a Frenchman.  I hope to be in London next Spring, and to have a talk
with you about my translation of the 1001."

All the early months of 1884, Burton was seriously ill, but in April
he began to mend.  He writes to Payne on the 17th: "I am just
beginning to write a little and to hobble about (with a stick).
A hard time since January 30th!  Let me congratulate you on being
at Vol. ix.  Your translation is excellent and I am glad to see in
Academy that you are working at Persian tales.[FN#411]  Which are
they?  In my youth I read many of them.  Now that your 1001 are so
nearly finished I am working at my translation."  He then asks what
arrangements Mr. Payne made with the publishers and the cost of the
printing.  "All I want," he says, on April 27th, "is a guide in
dealing with that dragon the publisher;" and in later letters he
thanks Mr. Payne for answering his questions.  On June 20th (1884)
writing from Marienbad he says, "I should much like to know what you
are doing with the three supplemental volumes, and I hope that each
will refer readers to the source whence you borrow it.  This will be
a great aid to the students.  The more I examine your translation
the better I like it.  Mine will never be so popular because I stick
so much to the text.[FN#412]  No arrangements yet make about it,
and MS. will not be all ready till end of January.  We (my wife and
I) have enjoyed our ten days at Marienbad muchly, but the weather
has as yet prevented bathing; a raw wester with wind and rain.
Bad for poor people who can afford only the 21 days de rigueur.
Cuthbert Bede (Rev. Edward Bradley) is here and my friend
J. J. Aubertin is coming."


121. At Sauerbrunn, 12th August 1884.


The next letter to Payne, written from Sauerbrunn, in Austria,
is dated 12th August 1884.  After enquiring concerning
"the supererogatory three vols." he says, "We left Marienbad last of
last month, and came to this place (a very pretty little spa utterly
clear of Britishers), where we shall stay till the end of the month
and then again for Trieste to make plans for the winter.  Will you
kindly let me have the remaining volumes, and when you have a spare
quarter of an hour I want a little assistance from you.  When you
sent me your Breslau you pencilled in each volume the places from
which you had taken matter for translation (How wretchedly that
Breslau is edited!)  I want these notes scribbled out by way of
saving time.  Of course I shall have to read over the whole series;
but meanwhile will content myself with your references.  Have you
the Arabian Nights published in Turkish by Mr. Clermont Ganneau?
You will want it for the supererogatory.  If you can't get it I have
it somewhere, and will look for it on return to Trieste.  Have you a
copy of Trebutien?  Cotton, of Academy has just sent me Clouston's
Book of Sindibad[FN#413] for review.  I thought it was our old
friend the sailor, but find out my mistake.  You will have no
objection to my naming (in my review) your style in the 1001 as
that he should have taken for a model."

He writes again on September 9th (1884): "On return here I found
Vol. ix., with the dedication which delighted me hugely.  I did not
notice your fine work in reviewing the Clouston treatise.  I had not
your express permission.  Living so far from the world I am obliged
to be very careful in these matters: one never knows what harm one
may be doing unawares.  Of course I shall speak of your translation
in my preface, as it deserves to be spoken of.  Nothing would give
me greater pleasure than to look over your proofs; in fact, I should
be sorry not to do so.  I have not yet found Ganneau's Nights,
but I hope to do so.  My Turkish Edition was burnt many years ago
in a fire at Grindlay's; but you will easily find a copy.  I suppose
you read Turkish;[FN#414] and if you do not you will in three
months; the literary style is a mass of Persian and Arabic.
You must find out which is the best Turkish Edition.  My copy had
evidently been translated from a MS. very unlike the Calcutta and
Bulak. ... I have told Quartich to send you a cop of Camoens
(Lyrics), which will be out in a few days."


122. Burton's Circulars, September 1884.


By September 1884 the first volumes of Burton's Arabian Nights were
almost ready for print, and Burton asked himself how many copies
would suffice the public.  He was aware that 1,500 persons were
disappointed of being able to obtain copies of Mr. Payne's Edition,
but it did not necessarily follow that all these 1,500 would
subscribe to his.  Finally he decided upon 1,000, and he had
three circulars printed respecting the work.

