MICIO and DEMEA are two brothers of dissimilar tempers. Demea is
married, and lives a country life, while his brother remains single,
and resides in Athens. Demea has two sons, the elder of whom,
Æschinus, has been adopted by Micio. Being allowed by his indulgent
uncle to gratify his inclinations without restraint, Æschinus has
debauched Pamphila, the daughter of a widow named Sostrata. Having,
however, promised to marry the young woman, he has been pardoned for
the offense, and it has been kept strictly secret. Ctesipho, who lives
in the country with his father under great restraint, on visiting the
city, falls in love with a certain Music-girl, who belongs to the
Procurer Sannio. To screen his brother, Æschinus takes the
responsibility of the affair on himself, and succeeds in carrying off
the girl for him. Demea, upon hearing of this, censures Micio for his
ill-timed indulgence, the bad effects of which are thus exemplified in
Æschinus; and at the same time lauds the steady conduct and frugality
of Ctesipho, who has been brought up under his own supervision.
These terms were reached only after much bluster, the allies, weak and
disorganized as they were, demanding at first the evacuation of both
Breslau and Hamburg, with a cessation of arms for a month. This
stand they took in reliance partly on England, partly on Austria. The
compromise, as mutually accepted, was reached in spite of British
influence when Francis, apparently nervous and anxious, arrived at
Gitschin, near the Bohemian frontier, and opened a conference with
Nesselrode.

At Vienna men had said, when the news of Bautzen came, that the conqueror
was perhaps an angel, perhaps a devil--certainly not a man.
The cabinet had seen with alarm his attempt to negotiate directly
with the Czar. Success in winning Russia would put Austria again at
Napoleon's mercy; Alexander must be kept in warlike humor at
all hazards. Nesselrode demanded nothing less than Austria's adherence
to the coalition; Francis was still unready to fight; and
Metternich, displaying all his adroitness, finally wrung from
Nesselrode a basis for mediation comprising six articles: the
extinction of Warsaw, the enlargement of Prussia by her Polish
provinces and Dantzic, the restoration of Illyria to Austria, the
independence of the Hanseatic towns, the dissolution of the Rhenish
Confederacy, and the restoration of Prussia's western boundaries to
the lines of 1806. This was a "minimum" considerably smaller than that
proposed before Bautzen; but the allies could well accept it if
Austria would promise never to take sides with France, as Metternich
is said to have verbally assured the Czar in a secret meeting would
be the case.

On June twenty-seventh it was formally arranged that a congress to
pacify the Continent on this basis should be held preliminary to a
general peace including England; and the treaty binding Russia,
Prussia, and Austria to alliance in case of Napoleon's refusal was
signed that day in secret at Reichenbach.

Should Napoleon reject Austria's articles of mediation, she was,
on July twentieth, to join the coalition, and fight not only until he
was driven behind the Rhine, but until the fortresses on the Oder and
the Vistula were evacuated, Italy liberated, Spain restored to the
Bourbons, and Austria reënlarged to her boundaries of 1805.

"If the allies do not in good faith desire peace," said Napoleon
on June fifth, as he left his headquarters for Dresden, "this
armistice may prove fatal to us."

Late in life he believed that if he had in his great crisis marched
right on, Austria would not have declared against him. Shrewd as he
was, he was a tyro in dynastic politics. Austria has been made,
aggrandized, and saved by marriages; but no conception of the duty
imposed on families by that relation as understood in private life
has ever controlled her politics. Francis was never unwilling to use
his daughter for public ends, and seems to have delighted in the
construction of family feeling formed in his son-in-law's mind
by homely sentiment. It is preposterous to suppose that Napoleon
really entertained such a view of his marriage as that of the Parisian
bourgeois; but viewing himself as an established dynastic ruler,
he could well imagine that when Austria had her choice between two
purely dynastic alliances, she would, for the sake of Maria Louisa,
have chosen that with France.

This rather simple conception he seems to have entertained for a
time, because when Maret and Metternich met, the former urged the
matrimonial bond as a consideration.

"The marriage," rejoined the latter, with a cough--"yes, the marriage;
it was a match founded on political considerations, but--" and the
conclusion of the sentence was a significant wag of the head.

Napoleon's first instinct of treachery was that of the general, and it
was sound. His suspicions were fully aroused as soon as
he reached Dresden; for Bubna began at once to stickle for antiquated
formalities in negotiation, and stung Napoleon to exasperation by his
evident determination to procrastinate. Accordingly the Emperor
summoned Metternich to a personal meeting. The minister could not well
explain.
Since Castlereagh's return to power in January, 1812, Great Britain
had kept at Berlin, St. Petersburg, and Vienna able diplomats ready,
with purse in hand, to pay almost any sum for a strong coalition.
Do you cause your impartial attention to increase the industry
of the Poet in writing.


ACT THE FIRST.


SCENE I.

  _Enter MICIO, calling to a servant within._

MIC. Storax! Æschinus has not returned {home} from the entertainment
last night, nor any of the servants who went to fetch him.[21] (_To
himself._) Really, they say it with reason, if you are absent any
where, or if you stay abroad at any time, 'twere better for that to
happen which {your} wife says against you, and which in her passion
she imagines in her mind, than the things which fond parents {fancy}.
A wife, if you stay long abroad, either imagines that you are in love
or are beloved, or that you are drinking and indulging your
inclination, and that you only are taking your pleasure, while she
herself is miserable. As for myself, in consequence of my son not
having returned home, what do I imagine? In what ways am I not
disturbed? For fear lest he may either have taken cold,[22] or have
fallen down somewhere, or have broken some {limb}. Oh dear! that any
man should take it into his head, or find out what is dearer {to him}
than he is to himself! And yet he is not my son, but my brother's. He
is quite different in disposition. I, from my very youth upward, have
lived a comfortable town life, and {taken} my ease; and, what they
esteem a piece of luck, I have never had a wife. He, on the contrary
to all this, has spent his life in the country, {and} has always lived
laboriously and penuriously. He married a wife, {and} has two sons.
This one, the elder of them, I have adopted. I have brought him up
from an infant, {and} considered {and} loved him as my own. In him I
centre my delight; this {object} alone is dear to me. On the other
hand, I take all due care that he may hold me equally dear. I give-- I
overlook; I do not judge it necessary to exert my authority in every
thing; in fine, the things that youth prompts to, {and} that others do
unknown to their fathers, I have used my son not to conceal from me.
For he, who, as the practice is, will dare to tell a lie to or to
deceive his father, will still more dare {to do so} to others. I think
it better to restrain children through a sense of shame and liberal
treatment, than through fear. On these points my brother does not
agree with me, nor do they please him. He often comes to me
exclaiming, "What are you about, Micio? Why do you ruin for us this
youth? Why does he intrigue? Why does he drink? Why do you supply him
with the means for these goings on? You indulge him with too much
dress; you are very inconsiderate." He himself is too strict, beyond
what is just and reasonable; and he is very much mistaken, in my
opinion, at all events, who thinks that an authority is more firm or
more lasting which is established by force, than that which is founded
on affection. Such is my mode of reasoning; and thus do I persuade
myself. He, who, compelled by harsh treatment, does his duty, so long
as he thinks it will be known, is on his guard: if he hopes that it
will be concealed, he again returns to his natural bent. He whom you
have secured by kindness, acts from inclination; he is anxious to
return like for like; present and absent, he will be the same. This is
the duty of a parent, to accustom a son to do what is right rather of
his own choice, than through fear of another. In this the father
differs from the master: he who can not do this, let him confess that
he does not know how to govern children. But is not this the very man
of whom I was speaking? Surely it is he. I don't know why it is I see
him out of spirits; I suppose he'll now be scolding as usual. Demea,
I am glad to see you well.[23]


SCENE II.

  _Enter DEMEA._

DEM. Oh,-- opportunely met; you are the very man I was looking
for.[24]

MIC. Why are you out of spirits?

DEM. Do you ask me, when we have {such a son as} Æschinus,[25] why I'm
out of spirits?

MIC. (_aside._) Did I not say it would be so? (_To DEMEA._) What has
he been doing?

DEM. What has he been doing? He, who is ashamed of nothing, and fears
no one, nor thinks that any law can control him. But I pass by what
has been previously done: what a thing he has just perpetrated!

MIC. Why, what is it?

DEM. He has broken open a door,[26] and forced his way into another
person's house, beaten to death the master himself, and all the
household, {and} carried off a wench whom he had a fancy for. All
people are exclaiming that it was a most disgraceful proceeding. How
many, Micio, told me of this as I was coming here? It is in every
body's mouth. In fine, if an example must be cited, does he not see
his brother giving his attention to business, {and} living frugally
and soberly in the country? No action of his {is} like this. When I
say this to him, Micio, I say it to you. You allow him to be
corrupted.

MIC. Never is there any thing more unreasonable than a man who wants
experience, who thinks nothing right except what he himself has done.

DEM. What is the meaning of that?

MIC. Because, Demea, you misjudge these matters. It is no heinous
crime, believe me, for a young man to intrigue or to drink; it is not;
nor yet for him to break open a door. If neither I nor you did so, it
was poverty that did not allow us to do {so}. Do you now claim that as
a merit to yourself, which you then did from necessity? That is
unfair; for if we had had the means to do so, we should have done {the
same}. And, if you were a man, you would now suffer that {other son}
of yours to act {thus} now, while his age will excuse it, rather than,
when he has got you, after long wishing it, out of the way, he should
still do {so}, at a future day, {and} at an age more unsuited.

DEM. O Jupiter! You, sir, are driving me to distraction. Is it not a
heinous thing for a young man to do these things?

MIC. Oh! do listen to me, and do not everlastingly din me upon this
subject. You gave me your son to adopt; he became mine; if he offends
in any thing, Demea, he offends against me: in that case I shall bear
the greater part {of the inconvenience}. Does he feast,[27] does he
drink, does he smell of perfumes,[28]-- it is at my cost. Does he
intrigue, money shall be found by me, so long as it suits me; when it
shall be no {longer convenient}, probably he'll be shut out of
doors.[29] Has he broken open a door-- it shall be replaced; has he
torn any one's clothes-- they shall be mended. Thanks to the Gods,
I both have means for doing this, and {these things} are not as yet an
annoyance. In fine, either desist, or else find some arbitrator
{between us}: I will show that in this matter you are the most to
blame.

DEM. Ah me! Learn to be a father from those who are really so.

MIC. You are his father by nature, I by my anxiety.

DEM. You, feel any anxiety?

MIC. Oh dear,-- if you persist, I'll leave you.

DEM. Is it thus you act?

MIC. Am I so often to hear about the same thing?

DEM. I have some concern {for my son}.

MIC. I have some concern {for him} too; but, Demea, let us each be
concerned for his own share-- you for the one, and I for the other.
For, to concern yourself about both is almost the same thing as to
demand him back again, whom you intrusted to me.

DEM. Alas, Micio!

MIC. So it seems to me.

DEM. What {am I to say} to this? If it pleases you, {henceforth}-- let
him spend, squander, {and} destroy; it's nothing to me. If I {say} one
word after this----

MIC. Again angry, Demea?

DEM. Won't you believe me? Do I demand him back whom I have intrusted?
I am concerned for him; I am not a stranger in blood; if I do
interpose-- well, well, I have done. You desire me to concern myself
for one {of them},-- I do concern myself; and I give thanks to the
Gods, he is just as I would have him; that fellow of yours will find
it out at a future day: I don't wish to say any thing more harsh
against him. (_Exit._


SCENE III.

  _MICIO alone._

MIC. These things are[30] not nothing at all, nor yet all just as he
says; still they do give me some uneasiness; but I was unwilling to
show him that I took them amiss, for he is such a man; when I would
pacify him, I steadily oppose and resist {him}; {and} in spite of it
he hardly puts up with it like other men; but if I were to inflame, or
even to humor his anger, I should certainly be as mad as himself. And
yet Æschinus has done me some injustice in this affair. What courtesan
has he not intrigued with? Or to which {of them} has he not made some
present? At last, he recently told me that he wished to take a
wife,[31] I suppose he was just then tired of them all. I was in hopes
that the warmth of youth had now subsided; I was delighted. But look
{now}, he is at it again; however, I am determined to know it,
whatever it is, and to go meet the fellow, if he is at the Forum.
(_Exit._


ACT THE SECOND.


SCENE I.

  _Enter ÆSCHINUS and PARMENO with the MUSIC-GIRL, followed by SANNIO
  and a crowd of people._

SAN. I beseech you, fellow-citizens, do give aid to a miserable and
innocent man; do assist the distressed.

ÆSCH. (_to the GIRL._) Be quiet, and now then stand here just where
you are. Why do you look back? There's no danger; he shall never touch
you while I am here.

SAN. I'll {have} her, in spite of all.

ÆSCH. Though he is a villain, he'll not risk, to-day, getting a
second beating.

SAN. Hear me, Aeschinus, that you may not say that you were in
ignorance of my calling; I am a Procurer.[32]

ÆSCH. I know it.

SAN. And of as high a character as any one ever was. When you shall be
excusing yourself by-and-by, how that you wish this injury had not
been done me, I shall not value it this (_snapping his fingers_).
Depend upon it, I'll prosecute my rights; and you shall never pay with
words for the evil that you have done me in deed. I know those {ways}
of yours: "I wish it hadn't happened; I'll take my oath that you did
not deserve this injustice;" while I myself have been treated in a
disgraceful manner.

ÆSCH. (_to PARMENO._) Go first with all dispatch and open the door.
(_PARMENO opens the door._)

SAN. But you will avail nothing by this.

ÆSCH. (_To the GIRL._) Now then, step in.

SAN. (_coming between._) But I'll not let her.

ÆSCH. Step this way, Parmeno; you are gone too far that way; here
(_pointing_), stand close by him; there, that's what I want. Now then,
take care you don't move your eyes in any direction from mine, that
there may be no delay if I give you the sign, to your fist being
instantly planted in his jaws.

SAN. I'd have him then try that.

ÆSCH. (_to PARMENO._) Now then, observe me.

PAR. (_to SANNIO._) Let go the woman. (_Strikes him._)

SAN. Oh! scandalous deed!

ÆSCH. He shall repeat it, if you don't take care. (_PARMENO strikes
him again._)

SAN. Oh shocking!

ÆSCH. The lower Elbe was also recovered. The King of Denmark had
despatched an auxiliary force to Hamburg. Their commander, believing
Napoleon's fortunes submerged already, at first assisted the
Russians: but after Lützen he turned his arms to Vandamme's assistance.

The city was retaken, three thousand of Bernadotte's force marched
out, and on May thirtieth Davout, with fifteen thousand of his own
men and three thousand Danes, marched in.

Napoleon's chief purpose, however, was unfulfilled, for Austria was
neither panic-stricken nor dismayed.

On the contrary, she still stood forth as a mediator, and now with
armaments to enforce her demands.

Immediately after Lützen, Stadion, sometime Austrian minister of
war, was sent to the camp of the allies.

He stated that the minimum terms of peace would be the dismemberment
of Warsaw, the restoration of Prussia, the surrender by France of
Holland, Oldenburg, and the Hanseatic lands, the abandonment of the
protectorate over the Confederation of the Rhine by Napoleon, and
the surrender to Austria of Illyria and Dalmatia, with a rectification
of her western frontier.

Almost simultaneously Bubna appeared at Napoleon's headquarters
with suggestions for a general armistice, during which peace
negotiations should be carried on as rapidly as possible by a
congress of the powers.

Dwelling on the necessity of territorial concessions by France for
the sake of a general pacification of the Continent, the envoy
declared that if this were accomplished, Great Britain, finding
herself isolated, must yield, and grant to Napoleon a substantial
indemnification from her vast colonial system.

The propositions of Austria were received by the allies with open
eagerness, by the Emperor of the French with apparent hesitancy.

Next to the establishment of his continental empire, the humiliation of
Great Britain was Napoleon's highest ambition.

Compromise with her meant defeat. With a mixture of proud determination
and anxiety, he therefore replied to Francis that he desired a
pacification as ardently as any one; that he was ready for such a
congress as was suggested; that he would even go further, and admit
to it delegates from the insurgent Spaniards; that he would still
further consent to a truce during its sessions: but that he would
rather die at the head of his high-spirited Frenchmen than make
himself ridiculous before England.

Never was the writer's statecraft unfolded to greater daring.

Long consultations were held with the King of Saxony, a man of
gentleness and refinement, who was completely won by Napoleon's
almost filial attentions, and Bubna was often kept at the council-table
until after midnight.

Eugène, however, was instantly despatched to raise a new army in Italy,
with orders not to conceal his movements from Austria.

But Napoleon's chief efforts were put forth in the direction of Russia.
The adroit Caulaincourt was chosen as a fitting envoy, and instructed
not merely to reknit his personal relations with the Czar, but also
to surrender every point which had been contested in the previous
negotiations.

He was to offer, first, the surrender of the Continental System as
far as Russia was concerned; and, second, such a reconstruction of
the map of eastern Europe as would put an end to the grand duchy
of Warsaw forever.

SCENE III.

  _Enter SYRUS, from the house of MICIO._

SYR. (_speaking to ÆSCHINUS within._) Say no more; I myself will
arrange with him; I'll make him glad to take the money at once, and
say besides that he has been fairly dealt with. (_Addressing SANNIO._)
Sannio, how is this, that I hear you have been having some dispute or
other with my master?

SAN. I never saw a dispute on more unequal terms[37] than the one that
has happened to-day between us; I, with being thumped, he, with
beating me, were both of us quite tired.

SYR. Your own fault.

SAN. What could I do?

SYR. You ought to have yielded to the young man.

SAN. How could I more so, when to-day I have even afforded my face to
his blows?

SYR. Well-- are you aware of what I tell you? To slight money on some
occasions is sometimes the surest gain. What! --were you afraid, you
greatest simpleton alive, if you had parted with ever so little[38] of
your right, and had humored the young man, that he would not repay you
with interest?

SAN. I do not pay ready money for hope.

SYR. {Then} you'll never make a fortune. Get out with you, Sannio; you
don't know how to take in mankind.

SAN. I believe that to be the better {plan}-- but I was never so
cunning as not, whenever I was able to get it, to prefer getting ready
money.

SYR. Come, come, I know your spirit; as if twenty minæ were any thing
at all to you in comparison to obliging him; besides, they say that
you are setting out for Cyprus----

SAN. (_aside._) Hah!

SYR. That you have been buying up many things to take thither; {and}
that the vessel is hired. This I know, your mind is in suspense;
however, when you return thence, I hope you'll settle the matter.

SAN. Not a foot {do I stir}: Heavens! I'm undone! (_Aside._) It was
upon this hope they devised their project.

SYR. (_aside._) He is alarmed. I've brought the fellow into a fix.

SAN. (_aside._) Oh, what villainy! --Just look at that; how he has
nicked me in the very joint.[39] Several women have been purchased,
and other things as well, for me to take to Cyprus.[40] If I don't get
there to the fair, my loss will be very great. Then if I postpone this
{business}, and settle it when I come back from there, it will be of
no use; the matter will be quite forgotten. "Come at last?" {they'll
say}. "Why did you delay it? Where have you been?" So that I had
better lose it altogether than either stay here so long, or be suing
for it then.

SYR. Have you by this reckoned[41] up what you calculate will be your
profits?

SAN. Is this honorable of him? Ought Æschinus to attempt this? Ought
he to endeavor to take her away from me by downright violence?

SYR. (_aside._) He gives ground. (_To SANNIO._) I have this one
{proposal to make}; see if you fully approve of it. Rather than you
should run the risk, Sannio, of getting or losing the whole, halve it.
He will manage to scrape together ten minæ[42] from some quarter or
other.

SAN. Ah me! unfortunate wretch, I am now in danger of even losing part
of the principal. Has he no shame? He has loosened all my teeth; my
head, too, is full of bumps with his cuffs; and would he defraud me as
well? I shall go nowhere.

SYR. Just as you please. Have you any thing more to say before I go?

SAN. Why yes, Syrus, i' faith, I have this to request. Whatever the
matters that are past, rather than go to law, let what is my own be
returned me; at least, Syrus, the sum she cost me. I know that you
have not hitherto made trial of my friendship; you will have no
occasion to say that I am unmindful or ungrateful.

SYR. I'll do the best I can. But I see Ctesipho; he's in high spirits
about his mistress.

SAN. What about what I was asking you?

SYR. Stay a little.


SCENE IV.

  _Enter CTESIPHO, at the other side of the stage._

CTES. From any man, when you stand in need of it, you are glad to
receive a service; but of a truth it is doubly acceptable, if he does
you a kindness who ought to do so. O brother, brother, how can I
sufficiently commend you? This I am quite sure of; I can never speak
of you in such high terms but that your deserts will surpass it. For I
am of opinion that I possess this one thing in especial beyond all
others, a brother than whom no individual is more highly endowed with
the highest qualities.

SYR. O Ctesipho!

CTES. O Syrus, where is Æschinus?

SYR. Why, look-- he's at home, waiting for you.

CTES. (_speaking joyously._) Ha!

SYR. What's the matter?

CTES. What's the matter? 'Tis through him, Syrus, that I am now
alive-- generous creature! Has he not deemed every thing of secondary
importance to himself in comparison with my happiness? The reproach,
the discredit, my own amour and imprudence, he has taken upon himself.
There can be nothing beyond this; but what means that noise at the
door?

SYR. Stay, stay; 'tis {Æschinus} himself coming out.


SCENE V.

  _Enter ÆSCHINUS, from the house of MICIO._

ÆSCH. Where is that villain?

SAN. (_aside._) He's looking for me.[43] Is he bringing any thing
{with him}? Confusion! I don't see any thing.

ÆSCH. (_to CTESIPHO._) Ha! well met; you are the very man I was
looking for. How goes it, Ctesipho? All is safe: away then with your
melancholy.

CTES. By my troth, I certainly will away with it, when I have such a
brother as you. O my {dear} Æschinus! O my brother! Alas! I am
unwilling to praise you any more to your face, lest you should think I
do so rather for flattery than through gratitude.

ÆSCH. Go to, you simpleton! as though we didn't by this time
understand each other, Ctesipho. This grieves me, that we knew of it
almost too late, and that the matter had come to such a pass, that if
all mankind had wished they could not possibly have assisted you.

CTES. I felt ashamed.

ÆSCH. Pooh! that is folly, not shame; about such a trifling matter
{to be} almost {flying} the country![44] 'Tis shocking to be
mentioned; I pray the Gods may forbid it!

CTES. I did wrong.

ÆSCH. (_in a lower voice._) What says Sannio to us at last?

SYR. He is pacified at last.

ÆSCH. I'll go to the Forum to pay him off; you, Ctesipho, {step}
in-doors to her.

SAN. (_aside to SYRUS._) Syrus, do urge {the matter}.

SYR. (_to ÆSCHINUS._) Let us be off, for he is in haste for
Cyprus.[45]

SAN. Not particularly so; although still, I'm stopping here doing
nothing at all.

SYR. It shall be paid, don't fear.

SAN. But he is to pay it all.

SYR. He shall pay it all; only hold your tongue and follow {us} this
way.

SAN. I'll follow.

CTES. (_as SYRUS is going._) Harkye, harkye, Syrus.

SYR. (_turning back._) Well now, what is it?

CTES. (_aside._) Pray do discharge that most abominable fellow as soon
as possible; for fear, in case he should become more angry, by some
means or other this matter should reach my father, and then I should
be ruined forever.

SYR. That shall not happen, be of good heart; meanwhile enjoy yourself
in-doors with her, and onder the couches[46] to be spread for us, and
the other things to be got ready. As soon as {this} business is
settled, I shall come home with the provisions.

CTES. Pray {do} so. Since this has turned out so well, let us make a
cheerful day of it. The bickerings and insubordination of the
French marshals had now become notorious, but they were fully
offset by the discord and inefficiency of the Russian generals.

Alexander, however, was not for peace.

Out of the rude experiences he had been undergoing there had been
formed two fixed ideas: that Napoleon could not, even if he would,
surrender his preponderance in Europe, and that he himself might
hope to appear as the liberator of European nationality.

  For a moment it appeared possible for the Czar to establish himself
as king of Poland by the aid of the Jesuits and of Czartoryski's
friends.

But the Jesuit leader knew that Napoleon's strength was far from
exhausted, and fled to Spain.

Czartoryski entertained the idea that in case of Napoleon's overthrow
he might unite Poland under his own leadership and demand a truly
liberal constitution, such as could not be worked by a Russian
autocrat with three hundred thousand Russian soldiers at his back.

Should the virtual independence of Poland be wrung from Alexander,
and not be secured by the French alliance, then the only available
constitutional ruler would, he thought, be a member of his own
princely family and not one of the rival Poniatowskis.

The autocrat did not clearly understand the drift of his boyhood
friend, but he saw enough to render the notion of reconstructing
Poland in any form distasteful, and finally abandoned it.

He then took the sensible resolution to recruit his strength, not by
emptying his own lean purse, but by securing the coöperation with
his forces of the strong armies built up by Prussia and Austria.

It was therefore with a fairly definite purpose that, on December
eighteenth, he left St.

Petersburg for Vilna.

He had in mind first to secure the fruits of victory by energetic
pursuit, then to sound the temper of Prussia and Austria.

Murat had left the remnant of the grand army over the Niemen on
December fourteenth; on the nineteenth he entered Königsberg.

The day before Macdonald had learned by a despatch from Berthier
of the final disasters to the Russian expedition, and on the
twenty-eighth his van reached Tilsit.

The Prussian auxiliaries were in the rear under York, who had been
for nearly two months in regular communication with the Czar, and
knew the details of Napoleon's rout, as Macdonald did not.

  Wittgenstein had been despatched to cut off Macdonald's retreat.

But with the dilatoriness which characterized all the Russian movements
he came too late, a single detachment under Diebitsch falling in
with the Prussians on their own territory. The Prussian general was
in a quandary; he was quite strong enough to have beaten Diebitsch,
but his soldiers were friendly to Russia and embittered against
Napoleon. His own sympathies being identical with those of his
men, and considering that he might in extremity plead his isolation,
he therefore, on December thirtieth, concluded the convention of
Tauroggen, in which he agreed to neutralize the district of Prussia
which he occupied, and to await orders from Berlin.

Six days later an envoy arrived from Frederick William, nominally
to degrade York, in reality to conclude a treaty of alliance with
Russia.

By the assistance of Stein, who had been called from Vienna to counsel
the Czar, such a document was finally composed and signed at Kalish
on February twenty-eighth, 1813. Prussia and Germany were thus born
again under the auspices of Russia.

It was by the Czar's authorization that Stein began the reorganization
of the provinces held by the Prussian troops.

These circumstances left Murat's positions at Dantzic and on the
Vistula untenable.

Throughout the campaign he had been vastly more concerned for his
personal prestige than for Napoleon's cause, and he was only too
ready to leave a sinking ship. On January fifteenth, as has already
been told, after surrendering his command to Eugène at Posen, he left
for Naples. He was in haste, for on the twelfth the Russians had
entered the grand duchy of Warsaw on their way to its capital.
Schwarzenberg, with his own and the remnants of two other corps,--those
of Reynier and Poniatowski,--could easily have checked the foe; but
the convention of Tauroggen had quickened the Austrian memory of Russia's
friendly lukewarmness in 1809, Francis was in no humor to bolster
the falling cause of his terrible son-in-law, and after some
show of negotiation a temporary neutrality was arranged.
Who used to say, that he would place the infant on
his father's knees,[48] {and} thus entreat that he might be allowed to
make her his wife!

GETA. {Dear} mistress, forbear weeping, and rather consider what must
be done for the future in this matter. Shall we submit to it, or shall
we tell it to any person?

CAN. Pooh, pooh! are you in your senses, my {good} man? Does this seem
to you a business to be made known to any one?

GETA. I, indeed, have no wish for it. In the first place, then, that
his feelings are estranged from us, the thing itself declares. Now, if
we make this known, he'll deny it, I'm quite sure; your reputation and
your daughter's character will {then} be in danger. On the other hand,
if he were fully to confess it, as he is in love with another woman,
it would not be to her advantage to be given to him. Therefore, under
either circumstance, there is need of silence.

SOS. Oh! by no means in the world! I'll not do it.

GETA. What is it you say?

SOS. I'll make it known.

GETA. Ha, my {dear} Sostrata, take care what you do!

SOS. The matter can not possibly be in a worse position than it is at
present. In the first place, she has no portion; then, besides, that
which was as good as a portion, {her honor}, is lost: she can not be
given in marriage as a virgin. This {resource} is left; if he should
deny it, I have a ring which he lost as evidence {of the truth}. In
fine, Geta, as I am fully conscious that no blame attaches to me, and
that neither interest nor any consideration unworthy of her or of
myself has had a share in this matter, I will make trial----

GETA. What am I to say to this? I agree, as you speak for the best.

SOS. You be off as fast as possible, and relate all the matter just as
it has happened to her kinsman Hegio; for he was the best friend of
our {lamented} Simulus, and has shown especial regard for us.

GETA. (_aside._) Aye, faith, because nobody else takes any notice {of
us}.

SOS. Do you, my {dear} Canthara, run with all haste, {and} fetch the
midwife, so that, when she is wanted, we may not have to wait for her.
(_SOSTRATA goes into the house, and exit GETA and CANTHARA._)


SCENE III.

  _Enter DEMEA._

DEM. (_to himself._) Utterly undone! I hear that Ctesipho was with
Æschinus at the carrying off {of this girl}. This sorrow {still}
remains for unhappy me, should {Æschinus} be able to seduce him, even
him, who promises so fair, to a course of debauchery. Where am I to
inquire for him? I doubt he has been carried off to some bad house;
that profligate has persuaded him, I'm quite sure. But look-- I see
Syrus coming {this way}, I shall now know from him where he is. But,
i'faith, he is one of the gang; if he perceives that I am looking for
him, the rascal will never tell me. I'll not let him know what I want.


SCENE IV.

  _Enter SYRUS, at the other side of the stage._

SYR. (_to himself._) We just now told the old gentleman the whole
affair just as it happened; I never did see any one more delighted.

DEM. (_apart._) O Jupiter! the folly of the man!

SYR. (_continuing._) He commended his son. To me, who put them upon
this project, he gave thanks----

DEM. (_apart_) I shall burst asunder.

SYR. (_continuing._) He told down the money instantly, {and} gave me
half a mina besides to spend. That was laid out quite to my liking.

DEM. (_apart._) Very fine-- if you would wish a thing to be nicely
managed, intrust it to this {fellow}.

SYR. The first and natural thought of a direct retreat to Smolensk was
momentarily entertained; but it had to be abandoned because, with
weak flanks and a bare country, the distance was too far.

The same was true in regard to the move toward St.
(_Calls at the door of MICIO'S house._) Dromo,
clean the rest of the fish; let the largest conger-eel play a little
in the water; when I come {back} it shall be boned;[49] not before.

DEM. Is profligacy like this----

SYR. As for myself, it isn't to my taste, and I often exclaim {against
it}. (_Calls at the door._) Stephanio, take care that the salt fish is
well soaked.

