The foreign affairs requiring notice, as affecting Great Britain, were
principally those in the East. During this year Turkey was obliged to
sue to the Russian autocrat for peace; for both the Russian army and
navy were successful in all their operations. The terms granted were as
follows:--The Pruth was to constitute the European limit as before;
but Silistria was to be dismantled. An alteration was to be made in the
Asiatic boundaries, so that the whole eastern coast of the Black
Sea, from the Kuban to the harbour of St. Nicholas, together with the
fortresses of Anapa and Poti, should remain in possession of Russia. The
principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia were to be confirmed in their
rights; but the Hospodars were to be nominated only for life, and no
Turks allowed to dwell there. Free trade was to be allowed on the Black
Sea, and navigation through the straits for vessels belonging to Russia,
as well as all other countries at peace with the Porte. The sultan
was to defray the expenses of the war, and to accede to the treaties
concluded at London regarding the Greeks. The bases of the intended
negociations respecting Greece were finally arranged among the allies,
at a conference on the 22nd of March in the present year. The protocol
signed by them read as follows:--"1. The continental boundary line
of the Greek state is to be drawn from the gulf of Volo to the gulf
of Arsa. All countries south of this line to be included in the Greek
state, to which the adjacent islands, comprehending Euboea and the
Cyclades, are likewise to belong 2. An annual tribute of 1,500,000
Turkish piastres to be paid by this Greek state. Only a third part to
be paid during the first year, and to be gradually increased till it
reaches the maximum in the fourth. 3. Turkish subjects who may be forced
to depart from the Greek territory to be indemnified. 4. Greece is to
remain under the suzerainty of the Porte, which form of government is
to approach as nearly as possible to & monarchical form, and to be
hereditary in the family of a Christian prince, to be chosen for the
first time by the three powers, in concert with the Porte. He is not to
be a member of the families reigning in the states which are parties to
the treaty of July 6th." Finally, the three powers, however, agreed to
restrict the territory of the new state within narrower limits than were
assumed in this protocol. The line adopted was further to the south.
It commenced on the east at Zeitouni, a little to the northward of
Thermopylae, and ran across the country in the direction of Vrachori,
till it reached the river Aspropotamos, or the ancient Achelous, whose
course it was then to follow as far as the sea. It thus excluded not
only Thessaly, but Acarnaniaand the town of Vonizza, which the Greeks
had taken early in the year, and an extensive tract of level country
lying round the gulf of Calarno. The whole western frontier of northern
Greece was left open by it to the attacks of its barbarian foes. And
this determination was made without the wishes of the Greeks being
consulted, or any communication made to the Greek government. The matter
was, in truth, decided at London without the intervention of either
Turkish or Greek minister; but the Porte and the Greek government were
alike compelled to agree to the articles drawn up by the three powers.

In the Netherlands the session of the States-general, during the present
year, was less tranquil and satisfactory than any that had been held
since the Restoration. The king himself continued popular; but his
government produced general dissatisfaction by some obnoxious measures;
especially by dismissing judges who were supposed to be too obstinate;
by partiality in official appointments; and by exercising severity
against the press when it criticised the policy of administration. When
the States-general met, the second chamber was immediately occupied in
discussing an immense number of petitions, recommending improvements
in the present system of government. Some ameliorations were made; but
government resisted the proposal that cases of alleged abuse of
the liberty of the press should be tried by a jury, and also the
introduction of grand juries, and the extension of jury trials to the
provincial courts and other criminal tribunals. On the other hand, a
numerous body in the chamber censured every measure of the government,
and resisted every project of its ministers; and the session ended with
an increase of that excitement and dissatisfaction which for some time
had been growing up in the public mind.

During this year, also, the government of France was embarrassed with
difficulties. A new ministry had been formed under the presidency of
Prince Polignac, all the members of which belonged to that section which
advocated irresponsible power in politics, and essential domination in
religion. Nothing could exceed the unpopularity of these appointments.
The press teemed with denouncements both of the men and their measures;
and prosecutions for its bold sentiments became the order of the day.
Prosecutions increased, from the fact that associations were formed to
resist the payment of taxes, in case ministers should attempt to rule
without a chamber. Finally, the cabinet itself became divided. One great
cause of its unpopularity was, that it contained Labourdonnaye, who had
signalized himself by recommending a terrific system of proscription,
and had, after the manner of Marius and Sylla at Rome, classified those
descriptions of people on whom he demanded vengeance. Labourdonnaye
retired towards the close of the year; but public opinion continued
against the administration as strong and unanimous as ever. At one time,
the organs of the cabinet threatened a dissolution of the chambers, and
at another, the ultra-journals preached the doctrine of ruling without
the chambers. The more accredited organs of the cabinet, indeed, did not
openly repeat such sentiments, but they were connected in the minds of
the people with that set of opinions which the cabinet represented. If
the one party, indeed, were led astray by assuming evil designs not in
existence, ministers were equally blind as to the character of their
antagonists. The year finally closed in mutual recriminations; ministers
keeping their places until the convocation of the legislature should
determine, whether the chambers were to decide the fate of the cabinet,
or the cabinet that of the chambers. One fact, however, was favourable
to the interests of France: namely, that its foreign relations remained
peaceful and unaltered.

