"I can't say I blame you much for your merriment," said Claud, joining,
though rather feebly, in the laugh, as he brushed himself and picked up his
rifle; "for, to be upset and run over by a bear would have been about the
last thing I should have dreamed of myself."

"O well," said the other, checking his risibles, "it had better turn out a
laughing than a crying matter, as it might have done if you had kept your
footing; for, if you had not been overthrown and run over, you would have
probably, in this cramped-up place, stood up to be hugged and scratched in
a way not so very agreeable; and I rather guess, under the circumstances,
you may as well call yourself satisfied to quit so; for the bears have left
you with a whole skin and unbroken ribs, though they have escaped
themselves where, with our time, it will be useless to follow them. But, if
you had not fired just as you did, we would have had all three of them."

"What! have you killed one?" asked Claud, in surprise.

"To be sure I have," answered the hunter. "Then you supposed it was one of
your rough visitors I fired at, and missed? No, no. I had got one of the
black youngsters in range, and was waiting for a chance at the old one,
knowing if I killed her first the young ones would take to the trees, where
they could easily be brought down. Seeing them, however, on the point of
running at the report of your rifle, I let drive at the only one I was sure
of; when the two others, they being nearly between us, tacked about and ran
towards you. But go get your 'coon, and come along this way, to look at my
black beauty."

"How did you know I had killed a 'coon?" inquired the other.

"Heard him squall before you fired, then strike the ground afterwards with
a force that I thought must have killed him, whether your bullet had or
not," replied the hunter, moving off for his bear, with which, tugging it
along by a hind leg, he soon joined Claud, who was threading his way out
with his mottled trophy swung over his shoulder.

"Why, a much larger one than I supposed," exclaimed the latter, turning and
looking at the cub; "really, a fine one!"

"Ain't he, now?" complacently said the hunter. "There, heft him; must weigh
over half a hundred, and as fat as butter,--for which he is doubtless
indebted to the chiefs cornfield. And I presume we may say the same of that
streaked squaller of yours, which I see is an uncommonly large, plump
fellow. Well," continued the speaker, shouldering the cub, "we may now as
well call our hunt over, for to-day,--out of this plaguey hole as soon as
we can, and over the lakes to camp, as fast as strong arms and good oars
can send us."

On, after reaching and pushing off their now well-freighted canoe,
on,--along the extended coast-line of this wild lake, westward to the great
inlet, up the gently inflowing waters of that broad, cypress-lined stream,
to the Maguntic, and then, tacking eastward, around the borders of that
still wilder and more secluded lake,--on, on, they sped for hours, until
the ringing of the axe-fall, and the lively echo of human voices in the
woods, apprised them of their near approach to the spot which their
companions had selected, both for their night's rest and permanent
head-quarters for the season.


CHAPTER XIII.


  "And now their hatchets, with resounding stroke,
  Hew'd down the boscage that around them rose,
  And the dry pine of brittle branches broke,
  To yield them fuel for the night's repose;
  The gathered heap an ample store bespoke.
  They smite the steel: the tinder brightly glows,
  And the fired match the kindled flames awoke,
  And light upon night's seated darkness broke.
  High branch'd the pines, and far the colonnade
  Of tapering trunks stood glimmering through the glen;
  So joyed the hunters in their lonely glade."

"Hurra! the stragglers have arrived!" exclaimed Codman, the first to notice
the hunter and Claud as they shot into the mouth of the small, quiet river,
on whose bank was busily progressing the work of the incipient encampment.
"Hurra for the arrival of the good ship Brag, Phillips, master; but where
is his black duck, with a big trout to its foot? Ah, ha! not forthcoming,
hey? Kuk-kuk-ke-oh-o!"

"Don't crow till you see what I have got, Mr. Trapper," replied the hunter,
running in his canoe by the sides of those of his companions on shore.
"Don't crow yet,--especially over the failure of what I didn't undertake:
you or Mr. Carvil was to furnish the big trout, you will recollect."

"That has been attended to by me, to the satisfaction of the company, I
rather think," remarked Carvil, now advancing towards the bank with the
rest. "Not only one big trout, but two more with it, was drawn in by my
method, on the way."

"O, accident, accident!" waggishly rejoined the trapper; "they were hooked
by mere accident. The fact is, the trouts are so thick in these lakes that
a hook and line can't be drawn such a distance through them without getting
into some of their mouths. But, allowing it otherwise, it don't cure but
half of your case, Mr. Hunter. Where is the black duck?"

"_Here_ is the black duck," responded the hunter, stepping ashore and
drawing his cub out from under some screening boughs in the bow of the
boat.

A lively shout of laughter burst from the lips of the company at the
disclosure, showing alike their amusement at the practical way in which the
hunter had turned the jokes of the teasing trapper, and their agreeable
surprise at his luck in the uncertain hunting cruise along the shores, on
which they, without any expectation of his success, had banteringly
dispatched him. "Ah, I think you may as well give up beat, all round, Mr.
Codman," observed Mark Elwood, after the surprise and laughter had
subsided. "Why yes, mamma, I should like to," she ended by declaring.

Then the matter was at once settled. Coupeau was quite willing that Madame
Lerat should take the child with her on the morrow to the place where she
worked in the Rue du Caire. And they all talked very gravely of the
duties of life. Boche said that Nana and Pauline were women now
that they had partaken of communion. Poisson added that for the
future they ought to know how to cook, mend socks and look after a
house.
