The farm fronted on the main road for a distance of twelve hundred
feet. There were now two entrances--the old main entrance at the lane
on the west side of the farm, and the new road to the sand pit over
the breast of the old dam, near the eastern border. There was a small
corner of about an acre and a half between the new pond and the road--
sort of triangular shape piece.

As soon as the holes were all dug, Bob got his sketch, showing the
placing of the fence posts and the location of the two gates at the
entrance to the property; also sketches for two extra large posts, one
on each side of the driveway. These posts were ornamental and made
specially strong by steel rods, not only to support the gates, but
with two bolts placed near the top for attaching a sign, for it had
been decided that there should be a sign, cast in concrete for
permanency, and painted white with deep blue letters and border. The
sign was to be fifteen inches high and twenty inches long and contain
the words: "Brookside Farm, Joseph Williams, Proprietor."

Tony had made a set of forms for these posts, which were to be cast in
place, though the other posts had all been pre-cast at the sand pit
and were set up in the holes as they were dug. The old rail fence had
been moved back and the fence row thoroughly grubbed out before the
wire fence was strung. When the wire was finally put in place and the
old rails hauled away, it gave a very neat appearance to the entrance
of the farm.

Between this fence and the new ditch, and lying between the two
entrances to the farm, was a field of about seven acres which they
decided to plant in potatoes, as this field was the most fertile of
all on the farm.

"What will we do with the little corner down by the pond, Bob?" asked
his uncle that evening as they sat around the table for their daily
conference.

"I've a suggestion to make for that," said his wife.

"Well, what is it, now?" asked her husband smiling.

"Build a little cottage there for Tony and Maria. When we get through
with our concrete work, Tony can then make fence posts, apiaries and
other standard concrete sections at the pit and we can sell them;
besides, he can keep account of all the sand and gravel that is taken
away, and, of course, if he lives there, he'll always be on hand when
we need him. You remember what John White said about other farmers
putting up concrete buildings, and that each time they erected one we
could sell them the materials. It will make Tony and Maria happy, and
keep them where their services will be most available."

"That's a good idea, Bettie," said her husband. "How much would such a
house cost?"

"I don't know, but I think we ought to make them comfortable in a
house that would cost not much over $1000 to $1500. It should be of
the bungalow type and will help to give our farm a very artistic
look."

"What were you and Maria doing down around the pond the other day?"
asked her husband, suddenly remembering that he saw them there.

"Oh, we were planting slips for willow trees. When they grow up, if we
trim them, it will enhance the appearance very much."

"Oh, that was it?" added her husband, winking at Bob. "I saw the young
willow trees, but didn't know who planted them."

"Now, you're only joking," said his wife. "You knew all the time what
we were doing."

"Fine idea, although I must confess I didn't quite understand at first
what it was, but I see now: we're not only going to have prosperity at
Brookside, but beauty as well," and coming over to the side of the
table where she was sitting, he kissed her.

"What are you and Ruth so busy at, Edith?" asked her uncle, looking
across at them.

"We've so many bulletins, Uncle Joe, that I am indexing and filing
them on a shelf, so we can get them just when we want them," said
Edith. "You see, information, unless it's used, is of no value, and if
we don't arrange our information so it's easily available when we need
it, it will be of little service to us."

"I'm glad the old job's done," said Ruth, "for Edith has been making
me write all the names and numbers in a book and it's been a terrible
job, Uncle Joe--a good deal worse than running the concrete mixer."

At nine o'clock the family retired and had been in bed but a short
time when a severe thunderstorm broke over Brookside Farm. Bob had
seen many storms in his eighteen years, but never one so violent as
the one which now burst in fury upon them. Peal after peal of thunder
followed the bright flashes of lightning, as they struck all around
them. The house fairly rocked on its foundations and the storm was so
severe they all got up and dressed. Bob had never been frightened by a
storm before, but as the heavy claps of thunder followed each other
almost as fast as he could wink, he shivered a little at the thought
of what would happen if the lightning should strike the house. The
whole family assembled in the sitting room wondering what might
happen. Bob walked over and stood beside Edith, who was looking out of
a window. Involuntarily she leaned against him for protection, and he
caught and held her trembling hand. They were standing thus looking
out at the storm, when suddenly a brighter flash than any of the
others, followed immediately by a loud clap of thunder, almost stunned
them. Edith swayed and would have fallen to the floor had Bob not
caught her in his arms. Though stunned himself, he managed to keep her
from falling, and had scarcely recovered from the shock, when as he
looked out through the window he saw the barn was in flames.

"Our barn's been struck," he shouted, and they rushed to the window to
look, and sure enough the barn was in flames.

Joe Williams reached for his hat to start out in the storm, but felt a
detaining hand on his arm.

"Joe," said his wife quickly, "there's not an animal in the barn, and
besides there's scarcely any hay or grain left, and what other things
are there, certainly are not worth your risking your life. About the
only thing you'll lose will be the harness and some small tools," and
catching him firmly by the arms, as she felt him pull away, she
continued:

"I'm not going to let you risk your life for those things. There are
no other buildings near by that the fire can damage. The rain is
coming down in torrents, and it will prevent the flames setting
anything else on fire. Let's all go out on the porch and watch it
burn," she added, and while the storm continued unabated, they huddled
together at the end of the porch watching while the barn slowly burned
to its foundations.

"For how much did you have it insured, Joe?" asked his wife, as the
fire died down.

"Five hundred dollars," said her husband.

"Well, it's a loss, I know," she said, "but it's lucky it burned now
instead of later in the season, when it would have been full of grain
and implements. I'm glad we've been keeping the live stock in the
fields lately."

"Well," said her husband, "there's no use of crying over spilled milk
or burned barns, so I say we all go back to bed, for the fire's nearly
out and this rain would soon put out any new place it might start up."

"I think it's perfectly splendid, Uncle Joe," said Ruth, now that the
lightning had ceased flashing; "this will give Bob and me a chance to
build you and Aunt Bettie a new barn."

"All right," said her uncle; "you'll probably have a chance now, Ruth,
to show us what you can do with a real building."

Hay making soon arrived and now that the barn had been burned, it was
necessary that the hay should be cut and stacked in the field to be
brought to the new barn later. It was fortunate, indeed, that the
implements did not arrive until the week following the destruction of
the barn and that the ones already delivered had been in the wagon
shed out of danger--consequently they were all saved.

[Illustration: THE SIDE DELIVERY RAKE FLUFFS UP THE HAY AND LETS THE
SUN DO ITS WORK QUICKLY]

[Illustration: THE SELF-LOADER MAKES POSSIBLE THE QUICK STORAGE OF
PROPERLY CURED HAY AND SAVES TONS OF MAN-LIFTING POWER]

While Joe Williams was sorry to lose his barn, yet in a way he was
glad, now that it was gone, for it had always been an eyesore,
standing there between the house and the main road. While his wife,
too, felt sorry for the loss, she was secretly happy that she could
now carry out her plans and build a new house where the old barn had
stood, giving it the prominence it should have. Her husband was sure
this had been in her mind when they located the dairy house, for he
saw it was in the right place to be a part of the group of buildings.

Ruth was in the hay field every day now, helping her uncle with the
work. This work seemed to delight her more than anything she had found
on the farm. She was very busy driving the hay rake one day when John
White's runabout drove up into the barnyard. The banker, however, was
not in the car. His nephew, Eddie Brown, and his chum, Herbert Potter,
were the occupants. Bob, with Tony and four of the neighbors' boys,
were putting the finishing touches on the cow barn and saw them
coming. He was not particularly interested in them; they did not like
farm work any more than he liked them, and their coming always annoyed
him. He was evidently not to be bothered with their society, however,
for they went into the house, and a few minutes later he saw them
going over to the hay field, where Ruth and her uncle were working.

Bob was so busy with his work that he had practically forgotten them
until he looked over and saw Edith at the apiary examining the bees.
With her was Eddie Brown, and Bob smiled as he noticed that Eddie was
standing at a safe distance from the hives.

It was perhaps a quarter of an hour later when Bob again looked over
into the hay field and saw the two boys with pitchforks turning hay,
in a portion of the field that was swampy and full of elderberry
bushes. He was still watching them when he saw Eddie use his fork to
strike at something in the air and a moment later his friend Herbert
did the same thing. Then as he and his helpers watched, the boys
seemed to be striking all around them with their pitchforks. Suddenly
Eddie and Herbert fell to the ground and began to roll, and Bob saw
his uncle stop the team, jump from the mower and rush over in their
direction.

There was no further doubt in Bob's mind what was going on. As soon as
his uncle had gotten near them, he took a bundle of hay and struck in
all directions as he rushed in and got one of the boys by his legs and
started to drag him out.

Ruth, not to be outdone by her uncle, stopped her horse and rushed
back and grabbed Eddie Brown's legs and started to pull him away. She
no sooner had hold of his legs than she snatched off her straw hat and
began waving it frantically around in the air, then turned and rushed
for the house as fast as she could go.

Bob looked to see what had become of Edith, and noticed her leaning
against a tree near the apiary. Even at the distance he was from her,
he could tell she was enjoying the situation as much as himself.

There was no question of what had happened. The boys had stirred up a
nest of swamp bumble bees, and instead of running away from them had
stopped to fight them. It suddenly occurred to Bob that his uncle
liked these two boys about as much as he liked them himself, and he
figured it was perhaps for this reason his uncle had forgotten the
existence of the bumble bees, that he doubtless located when he ran
the mower over them. Perhaps it was also for this reason he would not
let Ruth rake there, but instead set the boys at work with forks.

