A face dark and hollow, all overgrown with hair black as night and
uncombed--a pair of wild eyes--a body bent nearly double--hands like claws.

"Did he give you all this, my child?"

"They all did, Father; now you shall have soup and oranges."

"Thank you, sir--I'm sick, you see--all gone, sir!--had to send the poor
child out, or we'd starve. God bless you, sir! I wish I was well enough
to play you a tune," and he looked wistfully towards the corner where
stood the old organ, baize-covered, the baize in tatters.

One month after that the two men met again as if by agreement, and walked
slowly down town. Treading innumerable passages they came to the gloomy
building where lived Carletta's father.

No--not _lived there_, for as they paused a moment out came two or
three men bearing a pine coffin. In the coffin slept the old organ-grinder.

"It was very sudden, sir," said a woman, who recognized his benefactor.
"Yesterday the little girl was took sick and it seemed as if he drooped
right away. He died at six last night."

The two men went silently up stairs. The room was empty of everything
save a bed, a chair and a nurse provided by John Harvey. The child lay
there, not white, but pale as marble, with a strange polish on her brow.


"Well my little one, are you better?"

"Oh no, sir; Father is gone up there and I am going."

Up _there_! John Harvey turned unconsciously towards his friend.

"Did you ever hear of Jesus?" asked John Harvey's friend.

"Oh yes."

"Do you know who he was?"

"_Good Jesus_," murmured the child.

"Hawkins, this breaks me down," said John Harvey and he placed his
handkerchief to his eyes.

"Don't cry, don't cry; I can't cry, I'm so glad," said the child
exultingly.

"What are you glad for, my dear?" asked John Harvey's friend.

"To get away from here," she said deliberately. "I used to be so cold
in the winter, for we didn't have fire sometimes; but mother used to hug
me close and sing about heaven. Mother told me to never mind and kissed
me and said if I was His, the Savior would love me and one of these days
would give me a better home, and so I gave myself to Him, for I wanted
a better home. And, oh, I shall sing there and be so happy!"

With a little sigh she closed her eyes.

"Harvey, are faith and hope nothing?" asked Mr. Hawkins.

"Don't speak to me, Hawkins; to be as that little child I would give all
I have."

"And to be like her you need give nothing--only your stubborn will, your
skeptical doubts, and the heart that will never know rest till at the
feet of Christ."

There was no answer. Presently the hands moved, the arms were raised,
the eyes opened--yet, glazed though they were they turned still upward.


[Illustration]

"See!" she cried; "Oh, there is mother! and angels! and they are all
singing." Her voice faltered, but the celestial brightness lingered yet
on her face.

"There is no doubting the soul-triumph there," whispered Mr. Hawkins.

"It is wonderful," replied John Harvey, looking on both with awe and
tenderness. "Is she gone?"

He sprang from his chair as if he would detain her; but the chest and
forehead were marble now, the eyes had lost the fire of life; she must
have died as she lay looking at them.

"She was always a sweet little thing," said the nurse softly.

John Harvey stood as if spell-bound. There was a touch on his arm; he
started.

"John," said his friend, with an affectionate look, "shall we pray?"

[Illustration]

For a minute there was no answer--then came tears; the whole frame of
the subdued skeptic shook as he said--it was almost a cry: "Yes, pray,
pray!"

And from the side of the dead child went up agonizing pleadings to the
throne of God. And that prayer was answered--the miracle was wrought--
the lion became a lamb--the doubter a believer--the skeptic a Christian!


--A Tract.


HOW THREE SUNDAY SCHOOL CHILDREN MET THEIR FATE

[Illustration: "The children saw their fate. They then knelt down and
commenced to pray."]

When the Lawrence Mills were on fire a number of years ago--I don't mean
on fire, but when the mill fell in--the great mill fell in, and after
it had fallen in, the ruins caught fire, there was only one room left
entire, and in it were three Mission Sunday School children imprisoned.
The neighbors and all hands got their shovels and picks and crowbars and
were working to set the children free. It came on night and they had not
yet reached the children. When they were near them, by some mischance
the lantern broke, and the ruins caught fire. They tried to put it out,
but could not succeed. They could talk with the children, and even pass
to them some refreshments, and encourage them to keep up. But, alas, the
flames drew nearer and nearer to the prison. Superhuman were the efforts
made to rescue the children; the men bravely fought back the flames; but
the fire gained fresh strength, and returned to claim its victims. Then
piercing shrieks arose when the spectators saw that the efforts of the
firemen were hopeless. The children saw their fate. They then knelt down
and commenced to sing the little hymn we have all been taught in our
Sunday School days. Oh! how sweet: "Let others seek a home below, which
flames devour and waves overflow." The flames had now reached them; the
stifling smoke began to pour into their little room, and they began to
sink, one by one, upon the floor. A few moments more and the fire circled
around them, and their souls were taken into the bosom of Christ. Yes,
let others seek a home below if they will, but seek ye the Kingdom of
God with all your hearts.

--Moody's Anecdotes


HE BLESSES GOD FOR THE FAITH OF HIS LITTLE GIRL

"I came home one night very late," says Brother Matthew Hale Smith (in
his "Marvels of Prayer"), "and had gone to bed to seek needed rest. The
friend with whom I boarded awoke me out of my first refreshing sleep,
and informed me that a little girl wanted to see me. I turned over in
bed and said:

"'I am very tired, tell her to come in the morning and I will see her.'


"My friend soon returned and said:

"'I think you had better get up. The girl is a poor little suffering
thing. She is thinly clad, is without bonnet or shoes. She has seated
herself on the doorstep and says she must see you and will wait till you
get up.'

"I dressed myself and opening the outside door I saw one of the most
forlorn-looking little girls I ever beheld. Want, sorrow, suffering,
neglect, seemed to struggle for the mastery. She looked up to my face
and said:

"'Are you the man that preached last night and said that Christ could
save to the uttermost?'

"'Yes.'

"'Well, I was there, and I want you to come right down to my house and
try to save my poor father.'

"'What's the matter with your father?'

"'He's a very good father when he don't drink. He's out of work and he
drinks awfully. He's almost killed my poor mother; but if Jesus can save
to the uttermost, He can save him. And I want you to come right to our
house now.'

"I took my hat and followed my little guide who trotted on before, halting
as she turned the corners to see that I was coming. Oh, what a miserable
den her home was! A low, dark, underground room, the floor all slush and
mud--not a chair, table, or bed to be seen. A bitter cold night and not
a spark of fire on the hob and the room not only cold but dark. In the
corner on a little dirty straw lay a woman. Her head was bound up, and
she was moaning as if in agony. As we darkened the doorway a feeble voice
said: 'Oh, my child! my child! why have you brought a stranger into this
horrible place?' Her story was a sad one, but soon told. Her husband,
out of work, maddened with drink and made desperate, had stabbed her
because she did not provide him with a supper that was not in the house.
He was then upstairs and she was expecting every moment that he would
come down and complete the bloody work he had begun. While the conversation
was going on the fiend made his appearance. A fiend he looked. He
brandished the knife, still wet with the blood of his wife.

"The missionary, like the man among the tombs, had himself belonged to
the desperate classes. He was converted at the mouth of a coal pit. He
knew the disease and the remedy--knew how to handle a man on the borders
of delirium tremens.

"Subdued by the tender tones, the mad man calmed down, and took a seat
on a box. But the talk was interrupted by the little girl, who approached
the missionary, and said: 'Don't talk to father; it won't do any good.
If talking would have saved him, he would have been saved long ago.
Mother has talked to him so much and so good. You must ask Jesus, who
saves to the uttermost, to save my poor father.'

"Rebuked by the faith of the little girl, the missionary and the miserable
sinner knelt down together. He prayed as he never prayed before; he
entreated and interceded, in tones so tender and fervent that it melted
the desperate man, who cried for mercy. And mercy came. He bowed in
penitence before the Lord and lay down that night on his pallet of straw
a pardoned soul.

"Relief came to that dwelling. The wife was lifted from her dirty couch,
and her home was made comfortable. On Sunday, the reformed man took the
hand of his little girl and entered the infant class to learn something
about the Savior 'who saves to the uttermost.' He entered upon a new
life. His reform was thorough. He found good employment, for when sober
he was an excellent workman; and next to his Savior, he blesses God for
the faith of his little girl, who believed in a Savior able to save to
the uttermost all that come unto God by him."


A WONDERFUL CHILDREN'S MEETING

[Illustration: She had not talked long until nearly every child in the
room was in tears.]

Several years ago, when residing at G----, we became acquainted with
Sister W---- who was especially fond of children. Her own were grown,
and desiring to make a home for some homeless child, she went to the
county farm, where there were several, in search of one. Among the
children there she found a beautiful, little, bright-eyed girl, about
nine years old, named Ida. For the churches were now treated with gross
irreverence; horses and mules were led through them; they were profaned by
dogs and hawks, by doves and owls, by stares and choughs;[7] they
were plundered of their plate by churchwardens, or other powerful
parishioners,[8] who might argue, that if they spared, others would
spoil; or who might wish ill to the cause of the Reformation, and
take such means to scandalize it.

London, says Latimer, was never so full of ill; charity was waxen cold
in it. "Oh, London, London," cries this earnest old man, "repent!
repent! for I think God more displeased with London, than he ever was
with the city of Nebo

."[9] Such was the profligacy of its youth, that he marvels the
earth gaped not to swallow it up.
Acting upon this permission, Sister W---- talked with Ida and easily
gained her consent to go with her. Not many days had passed before she
found that there was considerable reason for what the matron had said.
Ida was hard to control and at times became terribly angry without cause;
but Sister W---- prayed for her and dealt patiently and tenderly with
her and told her how Jesus loved her, and would help her to be good if
she would only give him her heart. Her prayers and loving labor were not
in vain and it was not very long until little Ida was converted. The
change was so great that all who were with her could plainly see that
Jesus had indeed given her a new heart.

Soon after this we had charge of a children's meeting held in a mission
hall in G----. Among the children gathered there were many of the worst
boys in town. Little Ida was present. We knew how much Jesus had done
for her and felt led of the Spirit to ask her to lead the meeting. She
looked up at us much surprised but her little heart was full of the love
of God and she consented to do the best she could. Words cannot describe
what followed. In tears, Ida told, in her own touching way, how Jesus
had saved her--just what a naughty girl she had been before she was
converted but how Jesus had "taken the angry all away" and given her a
new heart so that she loved everybody and loved to do what was right.
Then she pled with them to give their hearts to God, and told them how
Jesus died on the cross for them, and how He loved them and wanted to
save them.

She had not talked long until nearly every child in the room was in
tears, and how shall we describe that touching scene? We had an altar
service. Ida knelt with those who were seeking and prayed for them and
told them how to find Jesus; and right there many were converted and
gave bright, clear testimonies that their sins were forgiven and Jesus
had given them new hearts. Thus did God that day honor a little girl's
testimony and exhortation and fulfill His own work, "A little child shall
lead them."

Very often do we call to mind that scene, and we find it one of the
sweetest of the memories of years of evangelistic work.

--Editor.


"THEY ARE NOT STRANGERS, MAMA"

Not long ago I stood by the death-bed of a little girl. From her birth
she had been afraid of death. Every fiber of her body and soul recoiled
from the thought of it, "Don't let me die," she said; "don't let me die.
Hold me fast Oh, I can't go!"

"Jennie" I said, "You have two little brothers in the other world, and
there are thousands of tenderhearted people over there, who will love
you and take care of you."

But she cried out again despairingly: "Don't let me go; they are strangers
over there." She was a little country girl, strong limbed, fleet of foot,
tanned in the face; she was raised on the frontier, the fields were her
home. In vain we tried to reconcile her to the death that was inevitable.
"Hold me fast," she cried; "don't let me go." But even as she was pleading,
her little hands relaxed their clinging hold from my waist, and lifted
themselves eagerly aloft; lifted themselves with such straining effort,
that they lifted the wasted little body from its reclining position among
the pillows. Her face was turned upward, but it was her eyes that told
the story. They were filled with the light of Divine recognition. They
saw something plainly that we could not see; and they grew brighter and
brighter, and her little hand quivered in eagerness to go, where strange
portals had opened upon her astonished vision. But even in that supreme
moment she did not forget to leave a word of comfort for those who would
gladly have died in her place: "Mama," she was saying, "Mama, they are
not strangers. I'm not afraid." And every instant the light burned more
gloriously in her blue eyes till at last it seemed as if her soul leaped
forth upon its radiant waves; and in that moment her trembling form
relapsed among its pillows and she was gone.

--_Chicago Woman's World_


JESSIE FINDING JESUS

A little girl in a wretched tenement in New York stood by her mother's
death-bed, and heard her last words: "Jessie, find Jesus."

