"Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt. She is quite devoted to you.
And I don't think it really matters about your not being there. The
audience probably thought it was a duet. When Aunt Agatha sits down to
the piano she makes quite enough noise for two people."

"That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me," answered Dorian,
laughing.

Lord Henry looked at him. Yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome,
with his finely-curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp gold
hair. There was something in his face that made one trust him at once.
All the candour of youth was there, as well as all youth's passionate
purity. One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the world. No
wonder Basil Hallward worshipped him.

"You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray--far too
charming." And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan, and opened
his cigarette-case.

The painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his brushes
ready. He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord Henry's last
remark he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said, "Harry,
I want to finish this picture to-day. Would you think it awfully rude of
me if I asked you to go away?"

Lord Henry smiled, and looked at Dorian Gray. "Am I to go, Mr. Gray?" he
asked.

"Oh, please don't, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky
moods; and I can't bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell
me why I should not go in for philanthropy."

"I don't know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. It is so tedious a
subject that one would have to talk seriously about it. But I certainly
shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop. You don't really
mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me that you liked your sitters
to have someone to chat to."

Hallward bit his lip. "If Dorian wishes it, of course you must stay.
Dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself."

Lord Henry took up his hat and gloves. "You are very pressing, Basil,
but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at the Orleans.
Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon Street. I
am nearly always at home at five o'clock. Write to me when you are
coming. I should be sorry to miss you."

"Basil," cried Dorian Gray, "if Lord Henry Wotton goes I shall go too.
You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is horribly dull
standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. Ask him to stay. I
insist upon it."

"Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me," said Hallward, gazing
intently at his picture. "It is quite true, I never talk when I am
working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for
my unfortunate sitters. I beg you to stay."

"But what about my man at the Orleans?"

The painter laughed. "I don't think there will be any difficulty about
that. Sit down again, Harry. And now, Dorian, get up on the platform,
and don't move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry
says. He has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the single
exception of myself."

Dorian Gray stepped up on the dais, with the air of a young Greek
martyr, and made a little _moue_ of discontent to Lord Henry, to whom he
had rather taken a fancy. He was so unlike Basil. They made a delightful
contrast. And he had such a beautiful voice. After a few moments he said
to him, "Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry? As bad as
Basil says?"

'Why, Mary, it was that which did it--it has been always that thought of
you at the Minster every day, that kept me to reading the Psalms,
and so having the book about me.

And did not it do one good to lie and think of the snug room, and
my father's spectacles, and all as usual?

When they used to lay me on the deck of the Dexter at night, because I
could not breathe below, I used to watch old Orion, who was my great
friend in the Loyalty Isles, and wish the heathen name had not stuck to
the old fellow, he always seemed so like the Christian warrior, climbing
up with his shield before him and his. A home like this is
a shield to a man in more ways than one, Mary. Hollo, was that the
street door?'
'Yes; Ritchie going home. Fancy his being at the silk all this time!

I am so sorry!'
Maugre her sorrow, there were few happier maidens in England than Mary
May, even though her service was distracted by the claims of three
slave-owners at once, bound as she was, to Ethel, by habitual
fidelity, to Harry, by eager adoration, to Blanche, by willing
submission.

Luckily, their requisitions (for the most part unconscious) seldom
clashed, or, if they did, the two elders gave way, and the bride asserted
her supremacy in the plenitude of her youthful importance and
prosperity.

Thus she carried off Mary in her barouche to support her in the return
of bridal calls, while the others were organizing a walk to visit Flora
and the rifle target. Gertrude's enthusiasm was not equal to walking
with a weapon that might be loaded, nor to being ordered out to admire
the practice, so she accompanied the sisters; Tom was reading hard; and
Ethel found herself, Aubrey, and the sailor, the only ones ready to
start.

This was a decided treat, for Aubrey and she were so nearly one, that
it was almost a tete-a-tete with Harry, though it was not his way
to enter by daylight, and without strong impulse, on what regarded himself,
and there were no such confidences as those to Mary on the previous night;
but in talking over home details, it was easier to speak without Tom's
ironical ears and caustic tongue.

Among other details, the story of the summer that Ethel and Aubrey had
spent at Coombe was narrated, and Aubrey indulged himself by describing
what he called Ethel's conquest.

'It is more a conquest of Norman's, and of Melanesia,' said Ethel.
'If it were not nonsense to build upon people's generous visions at
seventeen, I should sometimes hope a spark had been lit that would
shine some day in your islands, Harry.'
Going up that hill was not the place for Etheldred May to talk of
the futility of youthful aspirations, but it did not so strike
either of the brothers, to whom Cocksmoor had long been a familiar
fact.

Harry laughed to hear the old Ethel so like herself; and Aubrey said, 'By
the bye, what did you do, the day you walked him to Cocksmoor? he was
fuller of those islands than ever after it.'

'I did not mean it,' said Ethel; 'but the first day of the holidays I came
on him disconsolate in the street, with nothing to do, and very
sore about Henry's refusal to let him volunteer; he walked on with me
till we found ourselves close to Cocksmoor, and I found he had never
seen the church, and would like to stay for evening service, so I
put him into the parsonage while I was busy, and told him to take a
book.'

'I know,' said Aubrey; 'the liveliest literature you can get in Richard's
parlour are the Missionary Reports.'
'Exactly so; and he got quite saturated with them; and when we walked home,
I was so thankful that the rifle grievance should be a little displaced,
that I led him on to talk and build castles rather more than according
to my resolutions.'
'Hollo, Ethel!' said Harry.
'Yes, I think spontaneous castles are admirable, but I mistrust all
timber from other people's woods.'
'But isn't this a horrid shame of Henry?' said Aubrey. 'Such a
little prig as he is, to take the place of such a fellow as Leonard,
a capital shot already.'Mere words! Was there anything so real
as words?

Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood.
He understood them now. Life suddenly became fiery-coloured to him. It
seemed to him that he had been walking in fire. Why had he not known it?

With his subtle smile, Lord Henry watched him. He knew the precise
psychological moment when to say nothing. He felt intensely interested.
He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and,
remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book which
had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered
whether Dorian Gray was passing through a similar experience. He had
merely shot an arrow into the air. Had it hit the mark? How fascinating
the lad was!

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had
the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate, comes
only from strength. He was unconscious of the silence.

"Basil, I am tired of standing," cried Dorian Gray, suddenly. "I must go
out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here."

"My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can't think of
anything else. But you never sat better. You were perfectly still. And I
have caught the effect I wanted--the half-parted lips, and the bright
look in the eyes. I don't know what Harry has been saying to you, but he
has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. I suppose he
has been paying you compliments. You mustn't believe a word that he
says."

"He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that is the
reason that I don't believe anything he has told me."

"You know you believe it all," said Lord Henry, looking at him with his
dreamy, languorous eyes. "I will go out to the garden with you. It is
horribly hot in the studio. Basil, let us have something iced to drink,
something with strawberries in it."

"Certainly, Harry. Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will
tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background, so I
will join you later on. Don't keep Dorian too long. I have never been in
better form for painting than I am to-day. This is going to be my
masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands."

Lord Henry went out to the garden, and found Dorian Gray burying his
face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their
perfume as if it had been wine. He came close to him, and put his hand
upon his shoulder. "You are quite right to do that," he murmured.
"Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the
senses but the soul."

The lad started and drew back. He was bareheaded, and the leaves had
tossed his rebellious curls and tangled all their gilded threads. There
was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are
suddenly awakened. His finely-chiselled nostrils quivered, and some
hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and left them trembling.

"Yes," continued Lord Henry, "that is one of the great secrets of
life--to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means
of the soul. You are a wonderful creation. You know more than you think
you know, just as you know less than you want to know."

Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away. He could not help liking
the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. His romantic
olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him. There was
something in his low, languid voice that was absolutely fascinating. His
cool, white, flower-like hands, even, had a curious charm. They moved,
as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own. But
he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of being afraid. Why had it been left
for a stranger to reveal him to himself? He had known Basil Hallward for
months, but the friendship between them had never altered him. Suddenly
there had come someone across his life who seemed to have disclosed to
him life's mystery. And, yet, what was there to be afraid of? He was not
a schoolboy or a girl. It was absurd to be frightened.

"Let us go and sit in the shade," said Lord Henry. "Parker has brought
out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare you will be
quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again. You really must not
allow yourself to become sunburnt. It would be unbecoming."

"What can it matter?" cried Dorian Gray, laughing, as he sat down on the
seat at the end of the garden.

"It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray."

"Why?"

"Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing
worth having."

"I don't feel that, Lord Henry."

"No, you don't feel it now. Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and
ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion
branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will
feel it terribly. Now, wherever you go, you charm the world. Will it
always be so?... You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray. Don't
frown. You have. And Beauty is a form of Genius--is higher, indeed, than
Genius, as it needs no explanation. Ethel and Harry both laughed
heartily; one congratulating him on not having carried the principle
into the cockpit, the other adding, 'Don't indoctrinate Leonard with
it; there is enough already to breed bitterness between those brothers!
Leonard ought to be kept in mind that Henry has so much to harass
him, that his temper should be borne patiently with.'
'He!'
'I don't think papa's best endeavours have kept all his father's practice
for him, and I am sure their rate of living must make him feel pinched
this Christmas.'
'Whew! He will be in a sweeter humour than ever!'
'I have been trying to show Leonard that there's room for magnanimity on
his side at least; and don't you go and upset it all by common- place
abuse of tutors and governors.'
'I upset it!' cried Aubrey: 'I might as well try to upset the Minster
as a word from you to Leonard.'
'Nonsense! What's that?' For they were hailed from behind, and
looking round saw two tall figures, weapon in hand, in pursuit. They
proved to be Hector Ernescliffe and Leonard Ward, each bearing one
of what Dr. May called the H. E. rifles; but Leonard looked half
shy, half grim, and so decidedly growled off all Aubrey's attempts at
inquiry or congratulation, that Ethel hazarded none, and Aubrey looked
discomfited, wearing an expression which Harry took to mean that the
weight of his rifle fatigued him, and insisted on carrying it for
him, in, spite of his rather insulted protests and declarations
that the sailor was an invalid; Ethel had walked forwards, and found
Leonard at her side, with a darkening brow as he glanced back at the
friendly contest.

'Harry spoils Aubrey as much as all the others do,' said Ethel lightly,
deeming it best to draw out the sting of the rankling thought.

'Ay! None of them would leave him to be pitied and offered favours by some
chance person,' said Leonard.

'You don't call my brother Hector a chance person?'
'Did you say anything to him, Miss May?' said Leonard, turning on her
a flushed face, as if he could almost have been angered with her.

'I said not one word.'
'Nor Aubrey?'

'The volunteer politics were discussed last night, and Henry got abused
among us; but papa defended him, and said it did not rain rifles. That's
all--whatever Hector may have done was without a word to either of us--very
likely on the moment's impulse. Did he go to Bankside after you?'
'No. I was looking in at Shearman's window,' said Leonard, rather sheepishly,
'at the locks of the new lot he has got in, and he came and asked
if I were going to choose one, for he had got a couple down from London,
and the man had stupidly put his cipher on both, so he would be glad
if I would take one off his hands. I didn't accept--I made that
clear--but then he begged, as if it was to oblige him, that I would
come out to Abbotstoke and help him try the two, for he didn't know
which he should keep.'

'Very ingenious of him,' said Ethel laughing.

'Now, Miss May, do tell me what I ought to do.

It is such a beauty, better than any Shearman ever dreamt of; just look:
at the finish of the lock.'

'By the time you have shot with it--'
'Now don't, pray,' said Leonard, 'I haven't any one to trust for advice
but you.'

'Indeed, Leonard, I can see no objection. It is a great boon to you,
and no loss to Hector, and he is quite enough my father's son for
you to look on him as a friend.

I can't but be very glad, for the removal of this vexation ought
to make you get on all the better with your brother.'

'Ave would be delighted,' said Leonard; 'but somehow--'
'Somehow' was silenced by a coalescing of the party at a gate; and
Hector and Harry were found deep in an argument in which the
lieutenant's Indian reminiscences of the Naval Brigade were at issue with
the captain's Southdown practice, and the experiences of the one
meeting the technicalities of the other were so diverting, that
Leonard forgot his scruples till at the entrance of the park he
turned off towards the target with Hector and Aubrey, while the
other two walked up to the house.

The Grange atmosphere always had a strange weight of tedium in it, such
as was specially perceptible after the joyous ease of the house in
the High Street. No one was in the drawing-room, and Harry gazed
round at the stiff, almost petrified, aspect of the correct and
tasteful arrangement of the tables and furniture, put his hands in
his pockets, and yawned twice, asking Ethel why she did not go in
search of Flora.

Ethel shook her head; and in another moment Flora appeared in eager
welcome; she had been dressing for a drive to Stoneborough to see her
brother, little expecting him to be in a state for walking to her.
In the slanting beams that streamed
through the open doorway the dust danced and was golden. The heavy scent
of the roses seemed to brood over everything.

After about a quarter of an hour Hallward stopped painting, looked for a
long time at Dorian Gray, and then for a long time at the picture,
biting the end of one of his huge brushes, and frowning. "It is quite
finished," he cried at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in long
vermilion letters on the left-hand corner of the canvas.

Lord Henry came over and examined the picture. It was certainly a
wonderful work of art, and a wonderful likeness as well.

"My dear fellow, I congratulate you most warmly," he said. "It is the
finest portrait of modern times. Mr. Gray, come over and look at
yourself."

The lad started, as if awakened from some dream. "Is it really
finished?" he murmured, stepping down from the platform.

"Quite finished," said the painter. "And you have sat splendidly to-day.
I am awfully obliged to you."

"That is entirely due to me," broke in Lord Henry. "Isn't it, Mr. Gray?"

Dorian made no answer, but passed listlessly in front of his picture,
and turned towards it. When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks
flushed for a moment with pleasure. A look of joy came into his eyes, as
if he had recognised himself for the first time. He stood there
motionless and in wonder, dimly conscious that Hallward was speaking to
him, but not catching the meaning of his words. The sense of his own
beauty came on him like a revelation. He had never felt it before. Basil
Hallward's compliments had seemed to him to be merely the charming
exaggerations of friendship. He had listened to them, laughed at them,
forgotten them. They had not influenced his nature. Then had come Lord
Henry Wotton with his strange panegyric on youth, his terrible warning
of its brevity. That had stirred him at the time, and now, as he stood
gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full reality of the
description flashed across him. Yes, there would be a day when his face
would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colourless, the grace of
his figure broken and deformed. The scarlet would pass away from his
lips, and the gold steal from his hair. The life that was to make his
soul would mar his body. He would become dreadful, hideous, and uncouth.

As he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck through him like a
knife, and made each delicate fibre of his nature quiver. His eyes
deepened into amethyst, and across them came a mist of tears. He felt as
if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart.

"Don't you like it?" cried Hallward at last, stung a little by the lad's
silence, not understanding what it meant.

"Of course he likes it," said Lord Henry. "Who wouldn't like it? It is
one of the greatest things in modern art. 'Jones would make a plain deal
one for about five-and-twenty shillings.'

'I can't unpack mine properly,' said Leonard, disconsolately.

'Ave is going to make a place for them, but Henry votes them rubbish.'

'They are dreadful rubbish,' said Ethel.

'It goes against my conscience to guard them from the house-maid,
and if my sister Flora came in here, I should be annihilated.'

'Of course one expects that in women.'
'Oh, Richard would be as much distracted! It is a provision of Nature
that there should be some tidy ones, or what would the world come to?'

'It would be a great deal less of a bore.'
'Not at all; we should stifle ourselves at last if we had our own way.
Never mind, Leonard, we make them go through quite as much as they
make us.'

"It would be rather hard lines on your work."

"I should object very strongly, Harry," said Hallward.

Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. "I believe you would, Basil. You
like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a green
bronze figure. Hardly as much, I daresay."

The painter stared in amazement. It was so unlike Dorian to speak like
that. What had happened? He seemed quite angry. His face was flushed and
his cheeks burning.

"Yes," he continued, "I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your
silver Faun. You will like them always. How long will you like me? Till
I have my first wrinkle, I suppose. I know, now, that when one loses
one's good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything. Your
picture has taught me that. Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right. Youth
is the only thing worth having. When I find that I am growing old, I
shall kill myself."

Hallward turned pale, and caught his hand. "Dorian! Dorian!" he cried,
"don't talk like that. I have never had such a friend as you, and I
shall never have such another. You are not jealous of material things,
are you?--you who are finer than any of them!"

"I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I wished I could
have let you know sooner how well I had got over it,' said Harry,
in the deep full voice of strong healthy manhood. 'I am afraid you
have been very anxious.'
'We are used to it, my boy,' said the Doctor huskily, stroking the great
firm fingers that were lying lovingly on his knee, 'and if it always
ends in this way, it ought to do us more good than harm.'
'It has not done harm, I hope,' said Harry, catching him up quick.

'Not to old Mary?'

'No, Mary works things off, good girl. I flatter myself you will find us
all in high preservation.'

'All--all at home!

That's right.'

'Yes, those infants from Maplewood and all. You are sure you are
all right, Harry?'
'As sure as my own feelings can make me, and the surgeon of the
Dexter to back them,' said Harry."I stayed when you asked me," was Lord Henry's answer.

"Harry, I can't quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between
you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever
done, and I will destroy it. What is it but canvas and colour? I will
not let it come across our three lives and mar them."

