The group arose as one man and moved upon the heap of cutlery and of tin
plates and cups. From the open fifty-pound lard pails and kettles they
helped themselves liberally; then retired to squat in little groups here
and there near the sources of supply. Mere conversation yielded to an
industrious silence. Sadly the cook surveyed the scene, his arms folded
across the dirty white apron, an immense mental reservation accenting
the melancholy of his countenance. After some moments of contemplation
he mixed a fizzling concoction of vinegar and soda, which he drank. His
rotundity to the contrary notwithstanding, he was ravaged by a
gnawing dyspepsia, and the sight of six eggs eaten as a side dish to
substantials carried consternation to his interior.

So busily engaged was each after his own fashion that nobody observed
the approach of a solitary figure down the highway of the river. The
man appeared tiny around the upper bend, momently growing larger as he
approached. His progress was jerky and on an uneven zigzag, according
as the logs lay, by leaps, short runs, brief pauses, as a riverman
goes. Finally he stepped ashore just below the camp, stamped his
feet vigorously free of water, and approached the group around the
cooking-fire.

No one saw him save the cook, who vouchsafed him a stately and
lugubrious inclination of the head.

The newcomer was a man somewhere about thirty years of age, squarely
built, big of bone, compact in bulk. His face was burly, jolly, and
reddened rather than tanned by long exposure. A pair of twinkling
blue eyes and a humorously quirked mouth redeemed his countenance from
commonplaceness.

He spread his feet apart and surveyed the scene.

"Well, boys," he remarked at last in a rollicking big voice, "I'm glad
to see the situation hasn't spoiled your appetites."

Not much in _your_ pockets to mind--'cept the key o' the street, and a
ticket o' leave, I'll lay!

If you carn't beyave as a Gentleman _among _ Gentlemen, go 'ome to
where you 'ad your 'air cut last--to Pentonville! (_The_ G.O. _retires._)
There, we shall get along better without '_im_.

'Ow long are you goin' to keep me 'ere? Upon my word an' honour, it's
enough to sicken a man to see what the world's come to!
Where's yer courage? Where's yer own common sense? Where's your
faith in 'umin nature?"Might as well have sails on them and be done with it," remarked Jack
Orde reflectively. "Couldn't hold 'em any tighter. It's a pity that old
mossback had to put in a mill. The water was slack enough before, but
now there seems to be no current at all."

"Case of wait for the wind," agreed Tom North. "Old Daly will be
red-headed. He must be about out of logs at the mill. The flood-water's
going down every minute, and it'll make the riffles above Redding a holy
fright. And I expect Johnson's drive will be down on our rear most any
time."

"It's there already. Let's go take a look," suggested Orde.

They picked their way around the edge of the pond to the site of the new
mill.

"Sluice open all right," commented Orde. "Thought she might be closed."

"I saw to that," rejoined North in an injured tone.

"'Course," agreed Orde, "but he might have dropped her shut on you
between times, when you weren't looking."

He walked out on the structure and looked down on the smooth water
rushing through.

"Ought to make a draw," he reflected. Then he laughed. "Tom, look here,"
he called. "Climb down and take a squint at this."

North clambered to a position below.

"The son of a gun!" he exclaimed.

The sluice, instead of bedding at the natural channel of the river,
had been built a good six feet above that level; so that, even with the
gates wide open, a "head" of six feet was retained in the slack water of
the pond.

"No wonder we couldn't get a draw," said Orde. "Let's hunt up old
What's-his-name and have a pow-wow."

"His name is plain Reed," explained North. "There he comes now."

"Sainted cats!" cried Orde, with one of his big, rollicking chuckles.
"Where did you catch it?"

The owner of the dam flapped into view as a lank and lengthy individual
dressed in loose, long clothes and wearing a-top a battered old "plug"
hat, the nap of which seemed all to have been rubbed off the wrong way.

As he bore down on the intruders with tremendous, nervous strides,
they perceived him to be an old man, white of hair, cadaverous of
countenance, with thin, straight lips, and burning, fanatic eyes beneath
stiff and bushy brows.

"Good-morning, Mr. Reed," shouted Orde above the noise of the water.

"Good-morning, gentlemen," replied the apparition.

"Nice dam you got here," went on Orde.

Reed nodded, his fiery eyes fixed unblinking on the riverman.

"But you haven't been quite square to us," said Orde. "You aren't giving
us much show to get our logs out."

"How so?" snapped the owner, his thin lips tightening.

"Oh, I guess you know, all right," laughed Orde, clambering leisurely
back to the top of the dam. "That sluice is a good six foot too high."

"Is that so!" cried the old man, plunging suddenly into a craze of
excitement. "Well, let me tell you this, Mr. Man, I'm giving you all the
law gives you, and that's the natural flow of the river, and not a thing
more will you get! You that comes to waste and destroy, to arrogate unto
yourselves the kingdoms of the yearth and all the fruits thereof, let me
tell you you can't override Simeon Reed! I'm engaged here in a peaceful
and fittin' operation, which is to feed the hungry by means of this
grist-mill, not to rampage and bring destruction to the noble forests
God has planted! I've give you what the law gives you, and nothin'
more!"

Somewhat astonished at this outbreak, the two rivermen stood for a
moment staring at the old man. Then a steely glint crept into Orde's
frank blue eye and the corners of his mouth tightened.

"We want no trouble with you, Mr. Reed," said he, "and I'm no lawyer to
know what the law requires you to do and what it requires you not to do.
But I do know that this is the only dam on the river with sluices built
up that way, and I do know that we'll never get those logs out if we
don't get more draw on the water. Good-day."

Followed by the reluctant North he walked away, leaving the gaunt figure
of the dam owner gazing after them, his black garments flapping about
him, his hands clasped behind his back, his ruffled plug hat thrust from
his forehead.

"Well!" burst out North, when they were out of hearing.

"Well!" mimicked Orde with a laugh.

"Are you going to let that old high-banker walk all over you?"

"What are you going to do about it, Tom? It's his dam."

"I don't know. But you ain't going to let him bang us up here all
summer--"

"Sure not. But the wind's shifting. Let's see what the weather's like
to-morrow. To-day's pretty late."


II


The next morning dawned clear and breathless. Before daylight the
pessimistic cook was out, his fire winking bravely against the darkness.
His only satisfaction of the long day came when he aroused the men from
the heavy sleep into which daily toil plunged them. With the first light
the entire crew were at the banks of the river.

As soon as the wind died the logs had begun to drift slowly out into
the open water. The surface of the pond was covered with the scattered
timbers floating idly. After a few moments the clank of the bars and
ratchet was heard as two of the men raised the heavy sluice-gate on the
dam. A roar of water, momently increasing, marked the slow rise of the
barrier. A very imaginative man might then have made out a tendency
forward on the part of those timbers floating nearest the centre of the
pond. It was a very sluggish tendency, however, and the men watching
critically shook their heads.

They tell me it's nearly died out now--and no wonder, with everythink
a cure for it--but this article is a _certain_ remedy. All you've got
to do is to bite off a corner of the glorss, takin' care to be near
a public 'ouse at the time, chew the glorss into small fragments, enter
the public 'ouse, call for a pot o' four ale, and drink it orf
quick.

It operates in this way--the minoot portions of the glorss git
between the jaws of the microbe, preventin' 'im from closin' 'is
mouth, and thereby enablin' you to suffocate 'im with the four ale.
In
accomplishing these feats of tight-rope balance, they stood upright and
graceful, quite unconscious of themselves, their bodies accustomed
by long habit to nice and instant obedience to the almost unconscious
impulses of the brain. Only their eyes, intent, preoccupied, blazed out
by sheer will-power the unstable path their owners should follow. Once
at the forefront of the drive, the men began vigorously to urge the logs
forward. This they accomplished almost entirely by main strength, for
the sluggish current gave them little aid. Under the pressure of their
feet as they pushed against their implements, the logs dipped, rolled,
and plunged. Nevertheless, they worked as surely from the decks of these
unstable craft as from the solid earth itself.

In this manner the logs in the centre of the pond were urged forward
until, above the chute, they caught the slightly accelerated current
which should bring them down to the pike-pole men at the dam.
Immediately, when this stronger influence was felt, the drivers
zigzagged back up stream to start a fresh batch. In the meantime a great
many logs drifted away to right and left into stagnant water, where
they lay absolutely motionless. The moving of them was deferred for the
"sacking crew," which would bring up the rear.

Jack Orde wandered back and forth over the work, his hands clasped
behind his back, a short pipe clenched between his teeth. To the edge of
the drive he rode the logs, then took to the bank and strolled down
to the dam. There he stood for a moment gazing aimlessly at the water
making over the apron, after which he returned to the work. No cloud
obscured the serene good-nature of his face. Meeting Tom North's
troubled glance, he grinned broadly.

"Told you we'd have Johnson on our necks," he remarked, jerking his
thumb up river toward a rapidly approaching figure.

This soon defined itself as a tall, sun-reddened, very blond individual
with a choleric blue eye.

"What in hell's the matter here?" he yelled, as soon as he came within
hearing distance.

Orde made no reply, but stood contemplating the newcomer with a flicker
of amusement.

"What in hell's the matter?" repeated the latter violently.

"Better go there and inquire," rejoined Orde drolly. "What ails you,
Johnson?"

"We're right at your rear," cried the other, "and you ain't even made a
start gettin' through this dam! We'll lose the water next! Why in hell
ain't you through and gone?"

"Keep your shirt on," advised Orde. "We're getting through as fast as
we can. If you want these logs pushed any faster, come down and do it
yourself."

Johnson vouchsafed no reply, but splashed away over the logs, examining
in detail the progress of the work. After a little he returned within
hailing distance.

"If you can't get out logs, why do you take the job?" he roared, with
a string of oaths. "If you hang my drive, damn you, you'll catch it
for damages! It's gettin' to a purty pass when any old highbanker from
anywheres can get out and play jackstraws holdin' up every drive in the
river! I tell you our mills need logs, and what's more they're agoin' to
GIT them!"

He departed in a rumble of vituperation.

Orde laughed humorously at his foreman.

"Johnson gets so mad sometimes, his skin cracks," he remarked.
"However," he went on more seriously, "there's a heap in what he means,
if there ain't so much in what he says. I'll go labour with our old
friend below."

He regained the bank, stopped to light his pipe, and sauntered, with
every appearance of leisure, down the bank, past the dam, to the mill
structure below.

Here he found the owner occupying a chair tilted back against the wall
of the building. His ruffled plug hat was thrust, as usual, well away
from his high and narrow forehead; the long broadcloth coat fell back to
reveal an unbuttoned waistcoat the flapping black trousers were hitched
up far enough to display woollen socks wrinkled about bony shanks. He
was whittling a pine stick, which he held pointing down between his
spread knees, and conversing animatedly with a young fellow occupying
another chair at his side.

Arf a crown yer don't prick the middle o' this bit o' tape.

Bet arf a crown, to win five shillin's!

(_A school-boy sees his way to doubling his last tip, and speculates._)
Wrong agin, my boy! It's old BILLY FAIRPLAY'S luck--for _once_ in a
way! [_The School-boy departs, saddened by this most unexpected result._

_Fifth S.C._ (_a fat, fair man, with an impudent frog-face, who is
trying desperately hard to take in a sceptical crowd with the too
familiar purse-trick_).

"Well, we'll give you something for the privilege. What do you think is
fair?"

"I tell ye I'll give you your legal rights, and not a cent more,"
replied the old man, still quietly, but with quivering nostrils.

"What is your name?" asked Orde.

"My name is Reed, sir."

"Well, Mr. Reed, stop and think what this means. It's a more serious
matter than you think. In a little while the water will be so low in the
river that it will be impossible to take out the logs this year. That
means a large loss, of course, as you know."

"I don't know nothin' about the pesky business, and I don't wan to,"
snorted Reed.

"Well, there's borers, for one thing, to spoil a good many of the logs.
And think what it will mean to the mills. No logs means no lumber. That
is bankruptcy for a good many who have contracts to fulfil. And no logs
means the mills must close. Thousands of men will be thrown out of their
jobs, and a good many of them will go hungry. And with the stream full
of the old cutting, that means less to do next winter in the woods--more
men thrown out. Getting out a season's cut with the flood-water is
a pretty serious matter to a great many people, and if you insist on
holding us up here in this slack water the situation will soon become
alarming."

"Ye finished?" demanded Reed grimly.

"Yes," replied Orde.

The old man cast from him his half-whittled piece of pine. He closed his
jack-knife with a snap and thrust it in his pocket. He brought to earth
the front legs of his chair with a thump, and jammed his ruffled plug
hat to its proper place.

"And if the whole kit and kaboodle of ye starved out-right," said he,
"it would but be the fulfillin' of the word of the prophet who says,
'So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave
thee, and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee; and I will bring
the sword upon thee. I the Lord have spoken it!'"

"That's your last word?" inquired Orde.

"That's my last word, and my first. Ye that make of God's smilin' land
waste places and a wilderness, by your own folly shall ye perish."

"Good-day," said Orde, whirling on his heel without further argument.

The young man, who had during this colloquy sat an interested and silent
spectator, arose and joined him. Orde looked at his new companion
a little curiously. He was a very slender young man, taut-muscled,
taut-nerved, but impassive in demeanour. He possessed a shrewd, thin
face, steel-gray, inscrutable eyes behind glasses. His costume was quite
simply an old gray suit of business clothes and a gray felt hat. At the
moment he held in his mouth an unlighted and badly chewed cigar.

