   Lovely is peace! A beauteous boy,
    Couched listless by the rivulet's glassy tide,
    'Mid nature's tranquil scene,
   He views the lambs that skip with innocent joy,
    And crop the meadow's flowering pride:--
   Then with his flute's enchanting sound,
   He wakes the mountain echoes round,
    Or slumbers in the sunset's ruddy sheen,
    Lulled by the murmuring melody.
   Enrique, were up in all those souls,
   and more than any fan in the soul, lonely
   and isolated Doña Luz. Creíale
   a treasure of holiness, a paragon of all virtues, and an inexhaustible
well of science.

     

   
   'tis rapturous fear
   'Tis heaven upon this mortal sphere;
   When at her feet we bend the knee,
   And own the glance of kindred ecstasy
   For ever on life's checkered way,
    'Tis love that tints the darkening hues of care
   With soft benignant ray:
   The mirthful daughter of the wave,
    Celestial Venus ever fair,
   Enchants our happy spring with fancy's gleam,
   And wakes the airy forms of passion's golden dream.

     First (MANFRED).

    To the wild woods away!
    Quick let us follow in the train
   Of her, chaste huntress of the silver bow;
    And from the rocks amain
   Track through the forest gloom the bounding roe,
    The war-god's merry bride,
   The chase recalls the battle's fray,
    And kindles victory's pride:--
   Up with the streaks of early morn,
    We scour with jocund hearts the misty vale,
   Loud echoing to the cheerful horn
    Over mountain--over dale--
   And every languid sense repair,
   Bathed in the rushing streams of cold, reviving air.

     Second (BERENGAR).

   Or shall we trust the ever-moving sea,
   The azure goddess, blithe and free.
   Whose face, the mirror of the cloudless sky,
   Lures to her bosom wooingly?
    And the depths and the depths as they
   were covered with the
   substance of the matter, it affects
   our senses, we can not conceive without
   accidents and ways that we
   can not conceive of moving forms and
   accidents, but not in substance can
    be annihilated by the human mind. The
   only metaphysical imperative that
   enemy of metaphysics was that
   eternity be indefinite and vague. He was
   the only immutable.

     Everything else, ie change its appearance and because there is
nothing outside it, was moving and fluctuating with perpetual peace.

   It is clear that such a moral
    science could not be born with any
   duty or responsibility, or freedom of
    our actions, but D. Anselmo, who
   was an excellent subject, hardly
   dared to confess to such a monkey,
     or to own it, much less to others, and
   assembled a caramillo subtleties to
    prove that we were free and we should
     be good, and had given
    some that was good. Hence, if the issues
   on the first rhenium P. Enrique
    brave battles, in these studies was
   always defeated, and making a mess, with general applause of all,
    let alone his daughter doña
   Manolita, who finished once
    exclaiming: - Come on, Dad, forgive my
   impudence subsidiary but you do
    not know what you catch. Truth is that
   Ms Manolita gave his father a couple
   of affectionate kisses to sweeten
   one of self-mortification.

So there
was time that Mr Anselmo was more
embarrassed and vejado. Then
the P. Henry had to return it,
saying that the matter was
difficult and it does not deserve censure, but
applause, which he studied diligently
and with love of truth, but is
wrong: it should not laugh about
those who do not know how to swim or was thrown into the water,
swim for those who venture and drown, and that just misses the
sucking, and that only gives the fatal crashes that have the courage
to start and lofty and up.

   In this way, he found a powerful Doña Luz ally for its perpetual
disputes with the physician, whose inveterate yielded no positive
or never resulted in a conversion, but the concept of knowledge,
high intelligence and goodness of the Father was greater each day.

If this thought and the adversary the unbeliever, what would not think
     believers, those who professed the same ideas, those in whose
     favor Fr Enrique fought so
clever and courteously? Worship, enthusiasm,
admiration for Fr
Alas! that e'er I left
My peaceful cell--no cares, no fond desires
Disturbed my breast, unruffled as the stream
That glides in sunshine through the verdant mead:
Nor poor in joys. Now--on the mighty surge
Of fortune, tempest-tossed--the world enfolds me
With giant arms! Forgot my childhood's ties
I listened to the lover's flattering tale--
Listened, and trusted! From the sacred dome
Allured--betrayed--for sure some hell-born magic
Enchained my frenzied sense--I fled with him,
The invader of religion's dread abodes!
Where art thou, my beloved? Haste--return--
With thy dear presence calm my struggling soul!

   [She listens.

Hark! the sweet voice! No! 'twas the echoing surge
That beats upon the shore; alas! he comes not.
More faintly, o'er the distant waves, the sun
Gleams with expiring ray; a deathlike shudder
Creeps to my heart, and sadder, drearier grows
E'en desolation's self.

   [She walks to and fro, and then listens again.

             Yes! from the thicket shade
A voice resounds! 'tis he! the loved one!
No fond illusion mocks my listening ear.
'Tis louder--nearer: to his arms I fly--
To his breast!

   [She rushes with outstretched arms to the extremity
   of the garden. DON CAESAR meets her.

   DON CASAR. BEATRICE.

BEATRICE (starting back in horror)
What do I see?

   [At the same moment the Chorus comes forward.

DON CAESAR.
        Angelic sweetness! fear not.
   [To the Chorus.
Retire! your gleaming arms and rude array
Affright the timorous maid.
   [To BEATRICE.
               Fear nothing! beauty
And virgin shame are sacred in my eyes.

   [The Chorus steps aside. He approaches and takes her hand.

Where hast thou been? for sure some envious power
Has hid thee from my gaze: long have I sought thee:
E'en from the hour when 'mid the funeral rites
Of the dead prince, like some angelic vision,
Lit with celestial brightness, on my sight
Thou shonest, no other image in my breast
Waking or dreaming, lives; nor to thyself
Unknown thy potent spells; my glance of fire,
My faltering accents, and my hand that lay
Trembling in thine, bespoke my ecstasy!
Aught else with solemn majesty the rite
And holy place forbade:
             The bell proclaimed
The awful sacrifice! As I calm days, a
beautiful offspring, and a long life,
with the unchanged duration of such love,
as I feel IZT, I hope, so surely should be
the darkest caves, the most convenient opportunity
and the greatest inspiration of our evil
genius never wealthy Seyn my virtuous love
in unordentliche want to melt, that I should
steal that which is reserved feyerlichen days,
whose dawn Bey's me seem, either the sun horse
seyen stiff, or night crawler
angeschmiedet been.
[BEATRICE, who had stood trembling with averted eyes,
   here makes a gesture of terror.

