It was a comfortable, quiet retreat. One of the walls was lined with
cupboards and bookcases; on the other hung pictures of men and places;
on a table with a green cover lay a number of open books, and before
the table stood a massive arm-chair with a red velvet cushion.

When shall the dawn begin?" The clouds have blotted away the stars--
Who is there then can see the beckoning finger of the day?
They run out with oars in hand, the beds are emptied, the mother
prays, the wife watches by the door; There is a wail of parting that
rises to the sky, And there is the Captain's voice in the dark:
"Come, sailors, for the time in the harbour is over!"
All the black evils in the world have overflowed their banks, Yet,
oarsmen, take your places with the blessing of sorrow in your souls!

said the old man softly; and as he uttered the word, time had changed:
<i>he was young again</i>.

*       *       *       *       *


THE CHILDREN


Before very long the dainty form of a little maiden advanced toward
him. Her name was Elisabeth, and she might have been five years old.
He himself was twice that age. Round her neck she wore a red silk
kerchief which was very becoming to her brown eyes.

"Reinhard!" she cried, "we have a holiday, a holiday! No school the
whole day and none to-morrow either!"

I am much gratified by M.C.'s appreciation. I always had a love of
letters, even as a child, and I am only sorry that the break in my
education, brought about by myself, leaves so many blanks. I
keep, however, throughout all changes and chances, the faculty of
gleaning to right and left some fallen grain.

Of course, as I leave out the future, I say nothing of my wish to be
introduced to him in happier times--that is out of our department just
now.
I have written to Madame L. It is the last blow for her.While he was thus engaged, Elisabeth went along the dyke, gathering
the ring-shaped seeds of the wild mallow in her apron, with the object
of making herself chains and necklaces out of them; so that when
Reinhard had at last finished his bench in spite of many a crookedly
hammered nail, and came out into the sunlight again, she was already
wandering far away at the other end of the meadow.

"Elisabeth!" he called, "Elisabeth!" and then she came, her hair
streaming behind her.

"Come here," he said; "our house is finished now. Suddenly they have
stopped, become a prodigy, And men must stand before them saying:
"We do not fear you, O Monster!

for we have lived every day by conquering you, "And we die with the faith
that Peace is true, and Good is true, and true is the eternal One!"Reinhard began his tale: "There were once upon a time three spinning-
women..." [Footnote: The beginning of one of the best known of Grimm's
fairy tales.]

"Oh!" said Elisabeth, "I know that off by heart; you really must not
always tell me the same story."

Accordingly Reinhard had to give up the story of the three spinning-
women and tell instead the story of the poor man who was cast into the
den of lions.

"It was now night," he said, "black night, you know, and the lions
were asleep. But every now and then they would yawn in their sleep and
shoot out their red tongues. And then the man would shudder and think
it was morning. All at once a bright light fell all about him, and
when he looked up an angel was standing before him. The angel beckoned
to him with his hand and then went straight into the rocks."

Elisabeth had been listening attentively. "An angel?" she said. "Had
he wings then?"

"It is only a story," answered Reinhard; "there are no angels, you
know."

"Oh, fie! Reinhard!" she said, staring him straight in the face.

He looked at her with a frown, and she asked him hesitatingly: "Well,
why do they always say there are? mother, and aunt, and at school as
well?"

"I don't know," he answered.

"But tell me," said Elisabeth, "are there no lions either?"

"Lions? Are there lions? In India, yes. The heathen priests harness
them to their carriages, and drive about the desert with them. When
I'm big, I mean to go out there myself. It is thousands of times more
beautiful in that country than it is here at home; there's no winter
at all there. And you must come with me. Will you?"

"Yes," said Elisabeth; "but mother must come with us, and your mother
as well."

"No," said Reinhard, "they will be too old then, and cannot come with
us."

"But I mayn't go by myself."

"Oh, but you may right enough; you will then really be my wife, and
the others will have no say in the matter."

"But mother will cry!"

"We shall come back again of course," said Reinhard impetuously. "Now
just tell me straight out, will you go with me? If not, I will go all
alone, and then I shall never come back again."

The little girl came very near to crying. "Please don't look so
angry," said she; "I will go to India with you."

Reinhard seized both her hands with frantic glee, and rushed out with
her into the meadow.

"To India, to India!" he sang, and swung her round and round, so that
her little red kerchief was whirled from off her neck. Then he
suddenly let her go and said solemnly:

"Nothing will come of it, I'm sure; you haven't the pluck."

I do not speak of the magnificent things which have no immediate
connection with the war,--but nothing will be lost.

_September 5, 1914_ (_1st halting-place, 66 hours in the cage without
being able to stretch_).

Still the same jolting and vibration, but three times after the
horrible night there has come the glory of the morning, and all
fatigue has disappeared.

We have crossed the French country in several directions, from the
rather harsh serenity, full of suggestiveness, of Champagne, to
the rich robust placidity of Brittany.

On the way we followed the full and noble banks of the Loire, and now
. . .

O my beautiful country, the heart of the world, where lies all that is
divine upon earth, what monster sets upon you--a country whose
offence is her beauty!

I used to love France with sincere love, which was more than a little
_dilettante_; I loved her as an artist, proud to live in the most
beautiful of lands; in fact, I loved her rather as a picture might
love its frame.

It needed this horror to make me know how filial and profound are
the ties which bind me to my country. . . .

_September 7_ (from a note-book).

. . .

We are embarked on the adventure, without any dominant feeling except
perhaps a sufficiently calm acceptance of this fatality. But sensibility
is kept awake by the sight of the victims, particularly the refugees.
Poor people, truly uprooted, or rather, dead leaves in the storm,
little souls in great circumstances.

Whole trains of cattle-trucks, which can hardly be said to have changed
their use! Trains in which is heaped up the desolation of these people
torn from their homes, and how quickly become as beasts! Misery has
stripped them of all their human attributes. We take them food and
drink, and that is how they become exposed: the man drinks without
remembering his wife and children. The woman thinks of her child.
But other women take their time, unable to share in the general
haste.

Among these waifs there is one who assails my heart,--a grandmother of
eighty-seven, shaken, tossed about by all these blows, being by turns
hoisted into and let down from the rolling cages. So trembling and
disabled, so lost. . . .
_September 10_ (from a note-book).
We arrive in a new part of the country on the track of good news:
the strong impression is that France's future is henceforth
assured.
Everything corroborates this feeling, from the official report which
formally announces a complete success down to the most fantastic
rumours.

_September 13_ (from a note-book).
This is war; here are we approaching the place of horror. We have
left behind the French villages where peace was still sleeping. Now
there is nothing but tumult. And here are direct victims of the war.It was the month of June, and Reinhard was to start on the following
day. It was proposed to spend one more festive day together and
therefore a picnic was arranged for a rather large party of friends in
an adjacent forest.

It was an hour's drive along the road to the edge of the wood, and
there the company took down the provision baskets from the carriages
and walked the rest of the way. The road lay first of all through a
pine grove, where it was cool and darksome, and the ground was all
strewed with pine needles.

After half an hour's walk they passed out of the gloom of the pine
trees into a bright fresh beech wood. Here everything was light and
green; every here and there a sunbeam burst through the leafy
branches, and high above their heads a squirrel was leaping from
branch to branch.

The party came to a halt at a certain spot, over which the topmost
branches of ancient beech trees interwove a transparent canopy of
leaves. Elisabeth's mother opened one of the baskets, and an old
gentleman constituted himself quartermaster.

Let me not sink and disappear in the depth of languor.

Let not my life be worn out to tatters by penury of waste.
Let not those doubts encompass me,--the dust of distractions.
Let me not pursue many paths to gather many things.There are plenty of strawberries in
the wood--that is, for anyone who knows where to find them. Unless you
are sharp, you'll have to eat dry bread; that's the way of the world
all over. Do you understand what I say?"

"Yes, yes," cried the young folks.

"Yes, but look here," said the old gentleman, "I have not done yet. We
old folks have done enough roaming about in our time, and therefore we
will stay at home now, here, I mean, under these wide-spreading trees,
and we'll peel the potatoes and make a fire and lay the table, and by
twelve o'clock the eggs shall be boiled.

"In return for all this you will be owing us half of your
strawberries, so that we may also be able to serve some dessert. So
off you go now, east and west, and mind be honest."

The young folks cast many a roguish glance at one another.

"Wait," cried the old gentleman once again. "I suppose I need not tell
you this, that whoever finds none need not produce any; but take
particular note of this, that he will get nothing out of us old folks
either. Now you have had enough good advice for to-day; and if you
gather strawberries to match you will get on very well for the present
at any rate."

The young people were of the same opinion, and pairing off in couples
set out on their quest.

"Come along, Elisabeth," said Reinhard, "I know where there is a clump
of strawberry bushes; you shan't eat dry bread."

Elisabeth tied the green ribbons of her straw hat together and hung it
on her arm. "Come on, then," she said, "the basket is ready."

Off into the wood they went, on and on; on through moist shady glens,
where everything was so peaceful, except for the cry of the falcon
flying unseen in the heavens far above their heads; on again through
the thick brushwood, so thick that Reinhard must needs go on ahead to
make a track, here snapping off a branch, there bending aside a
trailing vine. But ere long he heard Elisabeth behind him calling out
his name. He turned round.

"Reinhard!" she called, "do wait for me! Reinhard!"

He could not see her, but at length he caught sight of her some way
off struggling with the undergrowth, her dainty head just peeping out
over the tops of the ferns. So back he went once more and brought her
out from the tangled mass of briar and brake into an open space where
blue butterflies fluttered among the solitary wood blossoms.

Reinhard brushed the damp hair away from her heated face, and would
have tied the straw hat upon her head, but she refused; yet at his
earnest request she consented after all.

"But where are your strawberries?" she asked at length, standing still
and drawing a deep breath.

"They were here," he said, "but the toads have got here before us, or
the martens, or perhaps the fairies."

"Yes," said Elisabeth, "the leaves are still here; but not a word
about fairies in this place. Come along, I'm not a bit tired yet; let
us look farther on."

In front of them ran a little brook, and on the far side the wood
began again. Reinhard raised Elisabeth in his arms and carried her
over. After a while they emerged from the shady foliage and stood in a
wide clearing.

"There must be strawberries here," said the girl, "it all smells so
sweet."

They searched about the sunny spot, but they found none. "No," said
Reinhard, "it is only the smell of the heather."

Everywhere was a confusion of raspberry-bushes and holly, and the air
was filled with a strong smell of heather, patches of which alternated
with the short grass over these open spaces.

"How lonely it is here!" said Elisabeth "I wonder where the others
are?"

Reinhard had never thought of getting back.

"Wait a bit," he said, holding his hand aloft; "where is the wind
coming from?" But wind there was none.

"Listen!" said Elisabeth, "I think I heard them talking. Just give a
call in that direction."

Reinhard hollowed his hand and shouted: "Come here!"

"Here!" was echoed back.

"They answered," cried Elisabeth clapping her hands.

"No, that was nothing; it was only the echo."

Elisabeth seized Reinhard's hand. "I'm frightened!" she said.

"Oh! no, you must not be frightened. It is lovely here. Sit down there
in the shade among the long grass. Let us rest awhile: we'll find the
others soon enough."

Elisabeth sat down under the overhanging branch of a beech and
listened intently in every direction. Reinhard sat a few paces off on
a tree stump, and gazed over at her in silence.

The sun was just above their heads, shining with the full glare of
midday heat. Tiny, gold-flecked, steel-blue flies poised in the air
with vibrating wings. Their ears caught a gentle humming and buzzing
all round them, and far away in the wood were heard now and again the
tap-tap of the woodpecker and the screech of other birds.

"Listen," said Elisabeth, "I hear a bell."

"Where?" asked Reinhard.

"Behind us. Do you hear it? It is striking twelve o'clock."

"Then the town lies behind us, and if we go straight through in this
direction we are bound to fall in with the others."

So they started on their homeward way; they had given up looking for
strawberries, for Elisabeth had become tired. And at last there rang
out from among the trees the laughing voices of the picnic party; then
they saw too a white cloth spread gleaming on the ground; it was the
luncheon-table and on it were strawberries enough and to spare.

The old gentleman had a table-napkin tucked in his button-hole and was
continuing his moral sermon to the young folks and vigorously carving
a joint of roast meat.

"Here come the stragglers," cried the young people when they saw
Reinhard and Elisabeth advancing among the trees.

"This way," shouted the old gentleman. "Empty your handkerchiefs,
upside down, with your hats! Now show us what you have found."

"Only hunger and thirst," said Reinhard.

"If that's all," replied the old man, lifting up and showing them the
bowl full of fruit, "you must keep what you've got. You remember the
agreement: nothing here for lazybones to eat."

Thank you for your splendid and constant affection.

. . . What shall I tell you of my life? Through the weariness and the
vicissitudes I am upheld by the contemplation of Nature which for two
months has been accumulating the emotion and the pathos of this impassioned
season.

One of my habitual stations
   is on the heights which
 overlook the immense Woëvre
   plain. How beautiful it is!

and what a blessing to follow,
   each hour of the day and
evening, the kindling colours
   of the autumn leaves!

This frightful human uproar cannot
   succeed in troubling the
majestic serenity of Nature!
   There are moments when man seems to go beyond anything that could
be imagined; but a soul that is prepared can soon perceive the
harmony which overlooks and reconciles all this dissonance.

Do not think that I remain
   insensible to the
agony of scenes that we behold all too
   often: villages wiped out by the artillery that is hurled upon
them; smoke by day, light by night; the misery of a flying population
under shell-fire.

Each instant brings some shock straight to one's heart. That is why I
take refuge in this high consolation, because without some discipline
of the heart I could not suffer thus and not be undone.

_November 17, in the morning._

DEAR MOTHER,-- . . .

I write to you in the happiness of the dawn over my dear village. The
night, which began with rain, has brought us again a pure and glorious
sky. I see once more my distant horizons, my peaked hills, the
harmonious lines of my valleys. From this height where I stand
who would guess that agricultural and peaceful village to be in
reality nothing but a heap of ruins, in which not a house is spared,
and in which no human being can survive the hell of artillery!

As I write, the sun falls upon the belfry which I see framed in the
still sombre tree close beside me, while far away, beneath the last
hills, the last swelling of the ground, the plain begins to reveal
its precious detail in the rosy and golden atmosphere.

_November 17, 11 o'clock._
The splendid weather is my great consolation. I live rather
like an invalid sent to some magnificent country, whom the treatment
compels to unpleasant and fatiguing occupations.

Between Leysin and the trench where I am at present there has been
only uncertainty.

Nothing new has happened to our company since October 13.

This is a strange kind of war. It is like that between neighbours on
bad terms.

Consider that some of the trenches are separated from the enemy by
hardly 100 metres, and that the combatants fling projectiles across
with their hands: you see that these neighbours make use of violent
methods.

As for me, I really live only when I am with you, and when I feel
the splendour of the surroundings.

Even in the middle of conversations, I am able to preserve the
sensation of solitude of thought which is necessary to me.

_November 18._

This morning, daylight showed us a country covered with hoar-frost,
a universal whiteness over hills and forest.

My little village looks thoroughly chilled.

I had spent the greater part of the night in a warm shelter, and I
could have stayed there, thanks to the kindness of my superiors,
but I am foolish and timid, and I rejoined my comrades from 1 o'clock
till half-past 4.

Curiously enough, we can easily bear the cold: an admirable article
of clothing, which nearly all of us possess, is a flour-sack which
can be worn, according to the occasion, as a little shoulder-cape,
or as a bag for the feet.

In either case it is an excellent preserver of heat

.

_11 o'clock._
   For the moment there
runs in my mind a pretty
   and touching air by
Handel. Also, an allegro
   from our organ duets:
joyful and brilliant music,
   overflowing with life.

Dear Handel! Often he consoles me.

Beethoven comes back only rarely to my mind, but when his music does
awake in me, it touches something so vital that it is always as
though a hand were drawing aside a curtain from the mystery of the
Creation.

Poor dear Great Masters! Shall it be counted a crime against them
that they were Germans?

How is it possible to think of Schumann as a barbarian?

Yesterday this country recalled to my mind what you played to me
ten years ago, the Rheingold: 'Libre étendu sur la hauteur.'

But the outlook of our French art had this superiority over the
beautiful music of that wretched man--it had composure and clarity
and reason.

 Yes, our French art was never turbid.

As for Wagner, however beautiful his music, and however irresistible
and attractive his genius, I believe it would be a less substantial
loss to French taste to be deprived of him than of his great classical
compatriots

.

* * * * *
I can say with truth that in those moments when the idea of a possible
return comes to me, it is never the thought of the comfort or the
well-being that preoccupies me.

It is something higher and nobler which turns my thoughts towards
this form of hope. Can I say that it is even something different from
the immense joy of our meeting again?
When he reached his lodging it had grown almost
quite dark; he stumbled up the stairs and so gained his apartment.

A sweet fragrance greeted him; it reminded him of home; it was the
smell of the parlour in his mother's house at Christmas time. With
trembling hand he lit his lamp; and there lay a mighty parcel on the
table. When he opened it, out fell the familiar ginger cakes. On some
of them were the initial letters of his name written in sprinkles of
sugar; no one but Elisabeth could have done that.

Next came to view a little parcel containing neatly embroidered linen,
handkerchiefs and cuffs; and finally letters from his mother and
Elisabeth. The sin has been yours and ours.
The heat growing in the heart of God for ages-- The cowardice of
the weak, the arrogance of the strong, the greed of fat prosperity,
the rancour of the wronged, pride of race, and insult to man-- Has
burst God's peace, raging in storm.

Mother always puts
her spinning-wheel away in the corner as early as half-past nine. It
is so very lonesome this winter now that you are not here.

"And now, too, the linnet you made me a present of died last Sunday.
It made me cry a good deal, though I am sure I looked after it well.

"It always used to sing of an afternoon when the sun shone on its
cage. And when Man bursts his mortal bounds, is not the Boundless
revealed that moment?

LXXXV 
THE SONG OF THE DEFEATED
My Master has bid me while I stand at the roadside, to sing the
song of Defeat, for that is the bride whom He woos in secret.You told us once that he was
just like his brown top-coat. I can't help thinking of it every time
he comes in at the door, and it is really too funny; but don't tell
mother, it might easily make her angry.

"Guess what I am giving your mother for a Christmas present! She is
forsaken of the day, and God's night is waiting for her with its
lamps lighted and flowers wet with dew.

She is silent with her eyes downcast; she has left her home behind
her, from her home has come that wailing in the wind.Nor did I wish it, but mother pressed me, and said it would very
much please dear Frau Werner.

"But you are not keeping your word, Reinhard. You haven't sent me any
stories. I have often complained to your mother about it, but she
always says you now have more to do than to attend to such childish
things. But I don't believe it; there's something else perhaps."

But the stars are singing the love-song of the eternal to a face
sweet with shame and suffering.

The door has been opened in the lonely chamber, the call has sounded,
and the heart of the darkness throbs with awe because of the coming
tryst.For a long
while he walked up and down his room, talking softly to himself, and
then, under his breath, he murmured:

I have err'd from the straight path,
   Bewildered I roam;
By the roadside the child stands
   And beckons me home.

