Another writer on the subject is Mr. H. Van Laun. Him, although a
predecessor of his own in the field, Mr. Saintsbury severely ignores, by
claiming that he is himself the first to write in English a history of
French literature based on original and independent reading of the
authors. We are bound to say that Mr. Van Laun's work is of very poor
quality. Fantasy Baron has embroidered his simple and honest life,
disfigured with false ornaments. The history has overcome the legend: but
though the legend Baron appears as a comical character, the story is
always worthy of respect.The cyclopædias are, some of them, both
in articles on particular authors and in their sketches of French
literary history as a whole, good sources of general information on the
subject. Readers who command the means of comparing several different
cyclopædias, or several successive editions of some one cyclopædia, as,
for example, the "Encyclopædia Britannica," will find enlightening and
stimulating the not always harmonious views presented on the same
topics. Hallam's "History of Literature in Europe" is an additional
authority by no means to be overlooked.


II.

FROISSART.

1337-1410.


French literature, for the purposes of the present volume, may be said
to commence with Froissart. Froissart is a kind of mediæval Herodotus.
His time is, indeed, almost this side the middle ages; but he belongs by
character and by sympathy rather to the mediæval than to the modern
world. He is delightfully like Herodotus in the style and the spirit of
his narrative. Like Herodotus, he became a traveller in order to become
an historian. Like Herodotus, he was cosmopolite enough not to be
narrowly patriotic. Frenchman though he was, he took as much pleasure in
recounting English victories as he did in recounting French. His
countrymen have even accused him of unpatriotic partiality for the
English. His Chronicles have been, perhaps, more popular in their
English form than in their original French. Two prominent English
translations have been made, of which the later, that by Thomas Johnes,
is now most read. Sir Walter Scott thought the earlier excelled in charm
of style.

Jehan or Jean Froissart was a native of Valenciennes. His father meant
to make a priest of him, but the boy had other tastes of his own. Before
he was well out of his teens, he began writing history. This was under
the patronage of a great noble. Froissart was all his life a natural
courtier. He throve on the patronage of the great. It was probably not a
fawning spirit in him that made him this kind of man; it was rather an
innate love of splendor and high exploit. He admired chivalry, then in
its last days, and he painted it with the passion of an idealizer. His
father had been an heraldic painter, so it was perhaps an hereditary
strain in the son that naturally attached him to rank and royalty. The
people--that is, the promiscuous mass of mankind--hardly exist to
Froissart. His pages, spacious as they are, have scarcely room for more
than kings and nobles, and knights and squires. He is a picturesque and
romantic historian, in whose chronicles the glories of the world of
chivalry--a world, as we have said, already dying, and so soon to
disappear--are fixed forever on an ample canvas, in moving form and
shifting color, to delight the backward-looking imagination of mankind.

Froissart, besides being chronicler, was something of a poet. It would
still be possible to confront one who should call this in question, with
thirty thousand surviving verses from the chronicler's pen. Quantity,
indeed, rather than quality, is the strong point of Froissart as poet.

He had no sooner finished the first part of his Chronicles, a
compilation from the work of an earlier hand, than he posted to England
for the purpose of formally presenting his work to the Queen, a princess
of Hainault. She rewarded him handsomely. Woman enough, too, she was,
woman under the queen, duly to despatch him back again to his native
land, where the young fellow's heart, she saw, was lost to a noble lady,
whom, from his inferior station, he could woo only as a moth might woo
the moon. He subsequently returned to Great Britain, and rode about on
horseback gathering materials of history. He visited Italy under
excellent auspices, and, together with Chaucer and with Petrarch,
witnessed a magnificent marriage ceremonial in Milan. If he had
wanted to surrender, humble, renouncing some of the beliefs and mission
of their ancestors, had been MP, Senator, Ambassador, and the
Minister had given him the win, at least he thought so, but as the
Baron had not wanted to assign or deny, he had to resign themselves
to be limited and a gentleman, although encopetado, living off
their earnings, which were short.

At this point in the economic situation, and not by anything the
imagination of the Baron. The truth comes in and gives her ticket just
praise. The Baron is a marvel of economy and settlement. Does not conceal
his poverty, but neither regrets. In the most elegant circles is always
with the decorum of his own class. Does not play, or drink. It does not
have any defect, do not smoke, and also because smoking seems commoner,
smelly, an improper and Castell-Bourdac full odds with the ideal of
the noble and elegant courtier of the old regime as it it represents.
The Baron does not owe anything to anyone and no one can boast that he
has borrowed money. Every day eat at a different house. It is highly
sought after and is invited to the best tables, and for his fun
conversation, for his outstanding reputation as a deep and
knowledgeable expert in all the arts of pleasure. Baron through the most
delicate _gourmet_ now lives in France paladea and sniffs. Is not
rich to pay for some treats with others, nor is either to pay zafio
otherwise without the least dissimulation, but perhaps without
thinking, paying and receiving gifts is not to tick him _pique-assiette_
or parasite.

Birthdays, weddings and other festivities offer opportunity, he takes
advantage of those gifts is fully paid. In sum, in my opinion, that I
founded, Baron is a model of cortesanía. Maldicientes have only been
able to get in the face of a defect, which, in my view, has been corrected.
The defect, if it is, is its extreme gallantry, strongly disagree with
many elderly age reached.

Censors his critics grant that he, in his youth, he made brilliant
achievements and captivated many hearts indomitable and proud, but
added that for over twenty years to be picked Baron reposarse and a
good living on their laurels. disto Much like I seem to follow.

     Since I met the Baron, thirteen or fourteen years has, he thinks
     otherwise. There is beauty, elegance and distinction to all ages,
     providing they do not miss the health and cleanliness. And Baron is
     healthy and is neat and tidy, I found him always and find him
     very pleasant person and a beautiful man. Moreover, as the human
     soul is immortal, there is no age that is worth her while not
     destroyed or damaged in the extreme that the aircraft and the bodies
     placed in relation to the world and serve as a medium for thinking
     and feeling and express what they think and feel while the body is
     enclosed. Whatever the case, and so that I do not say that
     bankruptcy subtle dispense the more clarification, and I will
     tell you that simplicity with the Baron is turned to me and
     made me very respectful and finely court. I did not have lisonjeo
     never certain defects which are attributed and to callers in France
     _parvenus_ as well as those in Spain called kitsch. No doubt the
     appearance of these defects in me has opposed pride. I have not
     sought nor desired tone to give me treatment and lofty
     friendship of people by birth, education and wealth. Naturally I
     found myself and I'm so distinguished as if I had been born in
     the purple and I would not be tossed to the world Pascuala, God
     knows what zahurda.
     The Prince [of Wales] asked them [his marshals] if they knew any
     thing of the King of France: they replied, "No, sir, not for a
     certainty; but we believe he must be either killed or made
     prisoner, since he has never quitted his battalion." The prince
     then, addressing the Earl of Warwick and Lord Cobham, said, "I beg
     of you to mount your horses, and ride over the field, so that on
     your return you may bring me some certain intelligence of him." The
     two barons, immediately mounting their horses, left the prince, and
     made for a small hillock, that they might look about them. From
     their stand they perceived a crowd of men-at-arms on foot, who were
     advancing very slowly. The King of France was in the midst of them,
     and in great danger; for the English and Gascons had taken him from
     Sir Denys de Morbeque, and were disputing who should have him, the
     stoutest bawling out, "It is I that have got him."--"No, no,"
     replied the others: "we have him." The king, to escape from this
     peril, said, "Gentlemen, gentlemen, I pray you conduct me and my
     son in a courteous manner to my cousin the prince; and do not make
     such a riot about my capture, for I am so great a lord that I can
     make all sufficiently rich." These words, and others which fell
     from the king, appeased them a little; but the disputes were always
     beginning again, and they did not move a step without rioting. When
     the two barons saw this troop of people, they descended from the
     hillock, and, sticking spurs into their horses, made up to them. On
     their arrival, they asked what was the matter. They were answered,
     that it was the King of France, who had been made prisoner, and
     that upward of ten knights and squires challenged him at the same
     time, as belonging to each of them. The two barons then pushed
     through the crowd by main force, and ordered all to draw aside.
     They commanded, in the name of the prince, and under pain of
     instant death, that every one should keep his distance, and not
     approach unless ordered or desired so to do. They all retreated
     behind the king; and the two barons, dismounting, advanced to the
     king with profound reverences, and conducted him in a peaceable
     manner to the Prince of Wales.

We continue our citation from Froissart with the brief chapter in which
the admiring chronicler tells the gallant story of the Black Prince's
behavior as host toward his royal captive, King John of France (it was
the evening after the battle):--

     When evening was come, the Prince of Wales gave a supper in his
     pavilion to the King of France, and to the greater part of the
     princes and barons who were prisoners. The prince seated the King
     of France, and his son the Lord Philip, at an elevated and
     well-covered table: with them were Sir James de Bourbon, the Lord
     John d'Artois, the earls of Tancarville, of Estampes, of Dammartin,
     of Graville, and the Lord of Partenay. The other knights and
     squires were placed at different tables. The prince himself served
     the king's table, as well as the others, with every mark of
     humility, and would not sit down at it, in spite of all his
     entreaties for him so to do, saying that "he was not worthy of such
     an honor, nor did it appertain to him to seat himself at the table
     of so great a king, or of so valiant a man as he had shown himself
     by his actions that day." He added, also, with a noble air, "Dear
     sir, do not make a poor meal, because the Almighty God has not
     gratified your wishes in the event of this day; for be assured that
     my lord and father will show you every honor and friendship in his
     power, and will arrange your ransom so reasonably, that you will
     henceforward always remain friends. In my opinion, you have cause
     to be glad that the success of this battle did not turn out as you
     desired; for you have this day acquired such high renown for
     prowess, that you have surpassed all the best knights on your side.
     I do not, dear sir, say this to flatter you; for all those of our
     side who have seen and observed the actions of each party, have
     unanimously allowed this to be your due, and decree you the prize
     and garland for it." At the end of this speech, there were murmurs
     of praise heard from every one; and the French said the prince had
     spoken nobly and truly, and that he would be one of the most
     gallant princes in Christendom if God should grant him life to
     pursue his career of glory.

A splendid and a gracious figure the Black Prince makes in the pages of
Froissart. It was great good fortune for the posthumous fame of
chivalry, that the institution should have come by an artist so gifted
and so loyal as this Frenchman, to deliver its features in portrait to
after-times, before the living original vanished forever from the view
of history. How much the fiction of Sir Walter Scott owes to Froissart,
and to Philip de Comines after Froissart, those only can understand who
have read both the old chronicles and the modern romances.

It was one of the congenial labors of Sidney Lanier--pure flame of
genius that late burned itself out so swiftly among us!--to edit a
reduction or abridgment of Froissart's Chronicles dedicated especially
to the use of the young. "The Boy's Froissart," he called it. This book
is enriched with a wise and genial appreciation of Froissart's quality
by his American editor.

Whoever reads Froissart needs to remember that the old chronicler is too
much enamoured of chivalry, and is too easily dazzled by splendor of
rank, to be a rigidly just censor of faults committed by knights and
nobles and kings. Froissart, in truth, seems to have been nearly
destitute of the sentiment of humanity. War to him was chiefly a game
and a spectacle.

Our presentation of Froissart must close with a single passage
additional, a picturesque one, in which the chronicler describes the
style of living witnessed by him at the court--we may not unfitly so
apply a royal word--of the Count de Foix. Baron understands me well, I
thought, and understands me so well when signal is, and is clear
evidence of the rise and the sharpness of his intellect. So Baron breathed
in my chest most pure friendship towards him.
"I was truly sorry," so, at the
conclusion of the story, Froissart, with characteristic direction of his
sympathy, says, "for the count his father, whom I found a magnificent,
generous, and courteous lord, and also for the country that was
discontented for want of an heir." Here is the promised passage; it
occurs in the ninth chapter of the third volume:--

