"Each atom of prakriti you say has the potentiality of some kind
of phenomenon.  We add 'and of life also.'  The potentialities of
life are in every atom of prakriti.  Even the atom of iron may
live in the blood.  It cannot become a part of any living
organism until its prana is sounding the chord of life in unison
with the ether and prakriti--the threefold silver chord.

"What is the centre of this prana?  It is Alcyone.  There are
other solar globes beside ours circling around Alcyone, and we
have been considering only our own solar globe of ether.  Alcyone
is the centre of the prana in which they revolve as the sun is
the centre of our ether in which the planets revolve.  As this
prana has a centre around which we revolve with other solar
systems, then it must have a center of gravity.

"Then this prana is a globe.

"The prana does not then fill this material universe.  There must
be yet another form of matter rarer and finer than prana, from
which prana is made, as ether is made from prana and prakriti
from ether.  Have we any other class of phenomena to explain,
except vital and physical?  Yes, there is a very important class,
mental.  And here we have the explanation, if we exercise our
reason.

"These pranic globes are floating in an ocean of manasa, matter
in its rarest form.

"Each atom of prana is formed from manasa, exactly as ether was
formed from prana, and each pranic atom in the universe is the
centre of a manasic molecule, having an atmosphere of manasic
atoms.

"So we are not exact in giving the prakritic atom three planes or
octaves of vibration.  It has four.  You merely surround it with
etheric atoms, and this is correct so far as it goes.  You only
wish to explain physical problems.  But there are other problems
to be explained, problems of life and mind, and the same
knowledge you have explains them as well as the others, if you
simply avail yourself of it.  That you do not consider the atom
as four-fold instead of two-fold is your own fault.  I have not
told you anything you did not already know.  I have only asked
you to apply your present knowledge of physics to these problems
of life and mind, and apply your reasoning powers.

"The chording vibration in an atom of matter of

"The two planes produces Force, or phenomena

"The three planes produces Life--the silver chord

"The four planes produces Mind--the golden chord.

"You say there is no gulf between the prakritic and etheric
worlds;  that it is one continuous world;  and all its phenomena
are by continuity and not impact.  That is true, but it is not
the whole truth.

"There is no gulf to cross between the prakritic and etheric
worlds;  none to cross between that and the manasic.  The four
worlds are one great world, continuous, interchangeable.  Through
the four as well as through the two, there is continuity and not
impact.  Whether it is an atom or a world, the four are there.
Nothing, no combination of atoms, no matter of any kind, however
small or large, can exist in this prakritic world unless it has
the four elements, which from time immemorial our philosophers
have called Earth, Water, Fire, Air, meaning the four globes or
forms of matter in the universe.  We do not have to leave the
earth to live in the etheric globe.  It is here.  Nor do we have
to go millions of miles to reach the pranic globe.  It is here.
The problems of light and heat are no easier than the problems of
birth and death.  The pranic globe is within us;  within
everything.  So is the manasic.

"It is here on these higher planes that the chances for worthy
study are greatest.  At least we think so, though you may not.
We live on the manasic--pranic--etheric globe on precisely the
same terms that we live on this of prakriti, and the problems of
the three are equally open to us.

"If there are any who care to follow up the line of thought I
have opened, who care for the questions that interest us of the
East, I will talk as long as they care to listen, provided they
will not ask for knowledge that will give them power over others,
which cannot fail to be used for evil."

This is but a glimpse of Hindu physics, yet it has helped us in
the metaphysics.  We now understand the chain of globes--in
part.  The earth is fourfold.  As each atom of the earth is
fourfold, so their aggregations give us prakritic earth, an
etheric earth, a pranic earth, and a manasic earth--in
coadunition and not like the skin of an onion.  They are separate
and distinct globes, each on its own plane.  It is four down and
three up for the Angel entering matter, whether from the outmost
boundary of manasic matter, or the surface of the earth, or the
cover of a baseball.  The "chain of globes" in the Secret
Doctrine represents the unity of the material universe.

The three-fold nature of the astral model is revealed, and the
unity of all prakritic things.  But more than that, to many
minds, will be the explanation it gives of why there are but four
planes of vibration in matter;  that the highest form of
development in prakriti shows only four elements, prakriti or
body, sensation or force, life, and mind, and that these last
three, present in all things in esse, become present in posse
when they work together harmonically.


Chapter Six

Our Place on Earth


The next time our wise man from the east was asked to "say a few
words and make his own topic," he spoke, perhaps, as follows:

"How large do you think the earth is?  You answer promptly, 7,912
miles in diameter.  You are as far out of the way as you were in
supposing that our sun could be a centre of gravity of a lot of
planets revolving around it and around Alcyone without being a
globe of ether.  Now that it has been mentioned, you see very
clearly for yourself that it must be a solar globe of ether.  It
follows from one of your physical axioms.  When I tell you why
the earth is and must be about fifty thousand miles in diameter,
you will see that it must be so, and that you knew it all the
time, but never stopped to formulate your knowledge.  You have
had the knowledge for three centuries without applying it.

"It was in 1609 that your greatest astronomer, John Kepler,
announced as one of three harmonic laws by which the universe was
governed, that the squares of the times of the planets were
proportional to the cubes of their distances from the sun;  and
that this law was true in physics and everywhere.  No one of your
scientists has had the wisdom to study out what it meant, and for
three centuries, for 291 years, you have repeated his words like
so many parrots, instead of using the key he gave you to unlock
the mysteries of the universe.  A corollary of his law is that
the planets move in their orbits because they are impelled
thereto between the two forces, and move in a mean curve between
them;  but it was not until 1896 that you discovered that the
mean between two forces is always a curve and never a straight
line.  You have not a text book in a school today that does not
repeat this fundamental and absurd error--which you have known
for three centuries to be an error--that the motion resulting
from a mean between forces is "in a straight line."  The curves
resulting here are not to be measured easily, and are so large
that small segments appear straight lines;  and it was not until
Carpenter demonstrated it mathematically that any one could
believe it true.

"There are two great forces in this universe.  Your grandfathers
called them Centripetal and Centrifugal forces;  your fathers
called them Gravity and Apergy, names which still cling to them;
and you call them Attraction and Repulsion.

"It was Kepler, not Newton, who discovered that Attraction or
Gravity was in inverse proportion to the square of the distance.

"You know the meaning of this mystic phrase, 'as the squares of
the distance.'  You understand that it means the attraction at
two feet is only one-fourth the attraction at one foot;  at four
feet only one-sixteenth;  at eight feet, only one sixty-fourth.

"But who knows or cares for Kepler's great law of Repulsion, or
Apergy?  That was that the 'square of the times are as the cubes
of the distance.'  It has lain fallow for centuries.  No one of
your western physicists has ever studied it, or tried to explain
it.  It remains just where Kepler left it, as the mere law of
orbital revolution of the planets only.

"It is the key to the proper understanding of the universe.

"'The squares of the times are as the cubes of the distance'
means that all motion is the result of two forces acting upon
prakriti, and that where the two forces are balanced, or equal,
the result in motion is a circle or ellipse, the square of the
Repulsion being equal to the cube of the Attraction to make them
equal and produce a circle.  In other cases they produce
hyperbola and parabola.

"This is a little dry--nearly all fundamental knowledge is--but
the reward of patience is great.

"The orbital speed of the earth is about 60,000 miles per hour.
The attraction of the sun exactly equals the repulsion created by
the motion;  more accurately, the speed created by the repulsion.
The result of the two forces working together at exact balance is
a circle.  An ellipse is a circle bent a little, and the ellipse
in which the earth actually moves comes from varying attraction
and repulsion.  Kepler's second law covers that.

"If the orbital speed of the earth were a mile less per hour, or
even a foot less, then the earth would wind up around the sun as
a dog gets wound up with his chain around a tree.  If this speed
were a mile more per hour, then the earth would wind out, each
year getting farther and farther away, until finally it would be
lost.  When the speed is exactly proportional to the pull--that
is, when it is as 1.6 is to 2,--the result is a circular orbit,
the eccentricity of which is caused by certain fluctuations in
the attraction and repulsion.

"Suppose a planet were to be placed so that it would have a time
of two years.  Its distance from the sun would be 1.6 that of the
earth.  Why?  Because to get the time doubled we would have to
take the square root of 4;  and to get the distance the cube root
of the same number, 4.  If you wish to be very exact the cube
root is 1.5889, but 1.6 is near enough for all ordinary work.

"If you wanted to find out the distance of a planet revolving in
six months you would divide the earth's distance by 1.6.

"In proportion you get any time or distance you may desire with
absolute accuracy.  The distance of any planet from the sun gives
its time, or its time gives its distance--when that of any of
the others is known.  This law applies throughout the universe;
in everything and everywhere.  It is not a law of orbital
revolution alone, but a law of all motion.

"Our moon has a time of 29 days and a speed of about 50,000 miles
per day.  If the speed were greater it would leave us, if less it
would wind up, falling to the earth in the form of a spiral.

"At what distance would it have to be to have a time of fourteen
days? Divide 240,000 miles by 1.6.  A seven-day moon, would be
1.6 that distance.  And the exact distance for a one-day moon,
for a moon that would always be in the same place in the heavens,
moving as the earth revolved on its axis, would be about 24,998
miles.

"This gives us the line of 24-hour axial rotation, the true
surface of the earth, and the sheer-line of prakritic matter.
Beyond that line is the ether;  within that line is prakriti.

"It is the line of no weight, where gravity and apergy exactly
balance.  Inside that line gravity exceeds apergy and everything
revolving in less time, or that time, must fall to the centre.
It is the true surface of any 24-hour globe of this size and
weight.  A moon to revolve around the earth in less than one day
must move faster than the earth to develop enough apergy to
overcome the attraction.  That phenomenon we see in the moons of
Mars, which are within its atmosphere;  within the planet itself.

"We of the East learned this true size of the earth over six
thousand years ago, from observing the moons of Jupiter.  The
times of the first three are doubled.  We asked ourselves what
this meant and found that their distance was increased by the
cube root of 4 when their times were increased by the square root
of 4;  that time was to distance as 1.6 was to 2.  Then we
applied the key, and found it unlocked many mysteries.

"The first lesson this taught us was that we did not live on the
earth, but within the earth, at the line of liquid and gaseous
changes, where the three forms of matter meet and mingle and
interchange with each other.  We lived at the bottom of a gaseous
ocean 21,000 miles above us, and 4,000 miles from the centre of
the globe.  It gave us an entirely new conception of the earth,
and of our place in it.

"We saw that we lived in a narrow belt, or skin, of the earth,
not more than 100 miles thick, perhaps not more than ten miles.
Within this belt the prakritic elementary substances varied their
condition, combined, and made forms by increasing or decreasing
vibration.  It was the creative and destructive zone, the
evolutionary "mother"--the liquid level of the prakriti--the
seat of all physical phenomena.  Fifty miles above, the masses of
nitrogen and oxygen and argon were too cold to change their rate
of vibration.  Fifty miles below the surface of the earth all
things were too hot for changes in vibration.  In this kinetic
belt, between two static masses our bodies had been made, and
also, in all probability, all combinations of the elementary
substances.  It was four thousand miles to the centre of the
static prakritic mass beneath us;  twenty-one thousand miles to
the surface of the static prakritic mass above us, and the small
kinetic belt between was only one hundred miles thick.  But we
had one consolation, the prakriti we had was all kinetic, and the
best in the whole mass.

"The second lesson it taught us was that as the earth had been
made in the etheric globe, in a corresponding skin or plane of
kinetic etheric energy, with our ether the best of the solar
output, that we ourselves were subject through our ether to the
phenomena of that kinetic solar plane in precisely the same way
we now are to the phenomena of the kinetic prakritic plane.  Once
rid of the fallacious notion that we were creatures of the
surface of the earth, once clearly conscious that we were
creatures of the interior, of the bottom of this gaseous ocean,
then we could understand not only how the earth could be created
in this etheric globe, but how we could be creatures of the solar
globe living on it.

"When we learned that lesson, and learned it well, it dawned upon
us that we were living in the pranic globe at the same kinetic
level or plane of that globe, the line where its solids and
liquids and gases mingled and passed from one state to another,
the kinetic belt in which our solar globe has been made, and that
we were living as truly on that globe as we were on this
prakritic globe.  Our position on each globe was the same.

"And then the great truth came that we lived in the manasic
globe, at the same kinetic level;  and that we lived our lives on
the four globes simultaneously.  Our bodies are fourfold.  Every
atom is fourfold, ready to respond in our minds to the vibrations
of the Manasic world, in our vitality to the pranic vibrations of
the pranic world, in our nerves to the etheric vibrations of the
etheric world, and in our prakriti to vibrations of the prakritic
world.  Each one of our bodies lived on its own earth globe, for
there were four globes of this earth--in coadunition--in its
corresponding kind of globe.

"The four earth globes became one globe, as our four bodies were
one body;  and the chain of four kinds of globes in matter became
one globe, as the manasic with the others on it.

"These four kinds of globes were the beginning and the end of
matter, as we distinguish and know matter.  They were not the end
of vibration;  or of planes of vibration;  or of realms beyond
this material universe;  but they were the limits of all that is
common to each and every atom of this lower plane of vibration.

"It is upon this solid and perfect foundation of physics, that
accounts for and explains every kind of phenomena, we have
constructed our metaphysics.  All that belongs to these four
lower planes we consider and treat as physics.  All that relates
to the planes beyond we consider metaphysics.  Can you teach a
child equation of payments before he knows the first four rules?
You would not attempt such a task.  The first four rules are the
physics of arithmetic;  all beyond is the metaphysics of
arithmetic.  It flows out of them.  Can you comprehend our system
of metaphysics until you have clearly and completely mastered our
physics?  Would you not get into a fog at the very start?

"There can be no system of metaphysics without a solid foundation
of physics.  The idea is unthinkable.  The one grows out of the
other.  It is its life;  its fruit, its flower.

"You have no western system of physics.  Your physics are without
form and void;  patchwork, constantly changing.  There is no
substantial foundation for any system of metaphysics.  What you
say or do in physics is fragmentary or chaotic.

"It is perfectly true, so far as you have gone through the first
invisible world of ether, you are much more masters of detail
than we are.

"We have not cared particularly for the minor details by which
explosives are made, or metals obtained from oxides.  We have
preferred to push on into realms beyond as fast as we could,
seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven and its Righteousness,
knowing that when it was found all these things would be added
unto us."


Chapter Seven

The Four Globes


That we live in the earth, not on the earth, is one of the most
important of the facts of eastern physics in the study of its
metaphysics.  The mathematical and physical proof that the
physical earth is 50,000 miles in diameter should not be
passed over lightly in our haste to get on, for the perfect
understanding of all this fact implies makes easy the
comprehension of how we live etherically in the solar etheric
globe, of how we live pranically in the stellar pranic globe, and
how we live manasically in the manasic globe.

As we live within the narrow "skin" of phenomena, not more than
100 miles thick, of this prakritic globe, with the whole earth
within the corresponding skin of phenomena of the solar etheric
globe, within the kinetic belt in which it was made, the ether
which surrounds each prakritic molecule is not merely any and
every kind of ether, but that particular kind of kinetic ether,
which, by changing its rate of vibration through an octave,
creates phenomena.  The ether of all prakritic matter belongs to
the kinetic or creative belt of the solar etheric globe.  It is
not static ether.  The ether in our prakriti is in touch with all
the prakritic kinetic ether of the solar globe, subject to all
solar laws of change;  and all our prak-solar laws of change;
and all our prakritic matter, a mere detail of it, is a part of
the solar phenomena.  "Our father, the sun," or "Dyaus pitar"
("heavenly father"--Latin, Jupiter) meant more once than it does
now.  Then the solar globe was the first heaven, and to live
under its laws, puttings off the coat of skin, was an object
which men believed to be worth striving for.  They recognized, as
we do not, that our prakritic laws were not all they had to obey;
that the higher law of the solar globe on which they lived, of
which the lower prakritic laws were merely an outcome and detail,
was worthy of the closest study.  And they recognized that these
higher laws of the etheric globe were metaphysical as well as
physical;  that our moral law flows out of the moral law of the
solar etheric world, as our physics flow from and out of solar
physics.  Religion is correct in its assumption of this higher
law of morals;  incorrect only in its grasp and explanation.
Science is correct in holding only in its assumption that it is
physical science;  incorrect only in its assumption that it is
physical science of this plane and globe only.  There is no
quarrel between science and religion when the full knowledge of
one stands beside the full knowledge of the other.  They are
twin-sisters.

This solar-etheric globe in which we are interested revolves
around Alcyone within that kinetic belt or skin of prana which is
subject to phenomena or vibration through one octave--else it
would never have been formed.  All prana in the solar-etheric
globe is of this particular kind of kinetic prana, which creates
life of all kinds--which is subject to vibration through one
octave.  The solar globe is a detail of kinetic prana only, one
of its phenomena.  Necessarily, all our prana is of this kinetic
kind, and our earth a minor detail of it in the Alcyone globe.
All the changes and combinations possible in kinetic prana on the
pranic globe are possible here, in our kinetic prana, as all the
phenomena of the etheric world are possible here in our kinetic
ether.

As our earth is a globe of ether and a globe of prana as well as
a globe of prakriti;  we are actually living on a small "cabbage"
of that pranic globe, and subject to all its laws.

In the vast manasic globe that includes this whole material
universe there is the same kinetic belt or skin of "phenomena" or
vibration similar to that kinetic belt in which we live on the
earth, and the manasa which permeates the Alcyonic globe, the
solar globe, and the earth is that kinetic manasa which is
involving and evolving.  This involving and evolving kinetic
manasa of the Alcyonic globe is that which surrounds every atom
of ether of the solar globe and every atom of prakriti of this
earth globe.  In the great manasic globe this earth of ours is a
minute village of Helios (sun) county, in the state of Alcyone.
We are actually and literally living in this manasic globe
precisely as we live in this earth, and as in the village we are
subject to all the laws of the manasic world, we can study them
here in this village as well as we could elsewhere.  We can study
them as easily as we study our prakritic village laws, or our
etheric county laws, for all the forms of manasa subject to them
anywhere are here with us.  We are not limited to a study of the
prakritic laws of the village fathers, nor yet to the etheric
laws of the supervisors of Helios county, as scientists say, nor
even to the state laws of Alcyone;  only the manasic laws of the
Universe limit our material studies in that direction.  As some
men on this earth never leave their native village and never know
or care for any matters outside of it, so in this little earth
village, in the kinetic belt of the manasic globe, there are men
who do not care to know anything which relate to matters outside
its boundaries.  As some men may pass the boundaries of their
village, but not of their county, caring only for the matters
concerning it, so the western scientists of this earth village on
the manasic globe do not pass the boundaries of Helios county,
caring only for etheric matters.  The philosophers and wise men
of the East are broader minded and from time immemorial have
taken greater interest in the pranic affairs of Alcyone and the
manasic condition of the universe in which Alcyone is a state
than in the rustic murmur of their village or the gossip of their
county.

There is nothing lacking in our manasic earth-village, nothing
that is in more abundant measure in our county, state, and
nation.  We are of the best.

We of this village may imagine, if we like, that there is nothing
beyond the village limits, and nothing in it but that which
relates to the village.  We have the right to be silly, if we
wish to be.  And it is no sign of wisdom to say that there is a
county beyond, but that the county boundaries end all, and only
village and county politics may be studied.  The European who
believed--no Asiatic or African or American could have believed
--that the earth rested on an elephant and the elephant on
a turtle was wise, in comparison.  Nor is it any sign of
intelligence to say that we may learn something of the village
and county while we live, but that to learn anything about the
state and nation we must wait until we are dead.  There are too
many in the village who are familiar with both state and nation,
and who have studied their laws, for this to be anything but
idiotic.


Chapter Eight

The Battle Ground


Each and every one of our eighty-odd elementary substances owe
their condition--whether solid, liquid, or gas--to their rate
of vibration.  We have reduced all gases to a liquid and nearly
all to a solid form.  Conversely, we have raised all solids to a
liquid and nearly all to a gaseous condition.  This has been done
by reducing or raising the vibration of each within one octave
--each one of the eighty odd having a special octave, a tone or
half-tone different from any other.  Normally, the solids,
vibrating in the lower notes, gather together under Attraction;
while the gases, vibrating in the higher notes, diffuse under
Repulsion.  Between them, created by the interchange of these two
forces, is our "skin" of phenomena, or kinetics.

Broadly, the attraction of the universe comes from its vibration
at certain centres in the three higher notes;  the repulsion
comes from its vibration everywhere else in the three higher
notes.  The central note, D of the scale, represents the battle
ground between the field of kinetics.  This in simple
illustration is water turning into gas.

This is the great battle ground, the only one worth considering
in a general view.  There are minor "critical stages" which the
chemist studies, but for us, in this broad sketch of the
universe, the important battle-ground is that between solid and
liquid on one side representing gravity, and gas on the other,
representing apergy.

All the solids and liquids of this earth of ours gather at the
centre, in a core, each of the elements (or their combinations)
in this core vibrating in their three lower notes, producing the
attraction, which is "in proportion to the mass" and which
decreases from the surface of the core "as the square of the
substance."

Around this central core gather all the elements vibrating in the
three higher notes of their octave as gases, producing repulsion
which increases by 1.6 for each doubled time.  It is worth while
making this clear.  It has never before appeared in print.

Let the amount of apergy, or repulsion, or centrifugal force at
the surface of the earth be represented by x.  This is the result
of motion at the rate of 1,000 miles per hour.  Make this motion
2,000 miles per hour, and the apergy is increased 1.6.  Four
thousand miles above the surface of this earth the rotation
is at the rate of 2,000.  It is the globe of 48,000 miles in
circumference revolving in 24 hours, and the speed is doubled.
This apergy has increased by 1.6.  As the apergy increases at
this rate every time the speed is doubled, at a distance
of 21,000 miles the speed is 7,000 miles per hour and the
centrifugal force has been increased nearly four times what it
was at the surface of the ocean.  The attraction has been
decreased to about one-thirtieth.  At the surface it is equal to
120 x.  At 4,000 miles to one-quarter, or 30 x;  at 16,000 miles
to one-sixteenth, or 7 x;  and at 21,000 miles to 4 x.

If "equatorial gravity is about 120 times that of the equatorial
apergy," at the ocean level, then at the distance of 21,000 miles
from it, in a revolving globe, the two forces would be equal;
the "pull" of each being 4 x, and an anchor will weigh no more
than a feather, for weight is the excess of gravity or apergy.

If the pyramids had been built of the heaviest known material on
the gases 21,000 miles above us, and so that they should revolve
in the same time, 7,000 miles per hour, they would remain there.
All the attraction of the solid core of the earth that could be
exerted on them at that distance would not be enough to pull them
an inch nearer to it through our gaseous envelope.  Their gaseous
foundation there would be as firm as igneous rock here.

The force of repulsion created by the three higher notes of an
octave means just as much at the attraction created by the three
lower notes, whether it is in a chemical retort, within this
earth, or within this universe.  The two forces balance, and are
exactly equal.  They fight only within kinetic zones.

Given the vast manasic globe of differentiated matter, its atoms
uniting in different numbers to form molecules as the bases of
elementary substances, manasic substances, of course.  The thrill
of vibration is sweeping through it from the spiritual plane
above, and the elements (and their combinations) which answer in
the lower notes gather and form a core, the Invisible Central
Sun, with its attraction.  The elements answering in the higher
notes gather around it with their repulsion.  So the two opposing
forces were born, with a vast kinetic skin for a battle-ground
between them.

The attraction of the invisible central sun manifests itself to
us in prakriti as Light.  The repulsion of its covering, or the
higher static vibration of manasa, manifests itself to us as
Darkness.  The first creative act in or on matter was the
creation of Light and its separation from the Darkness.  The next
creative act was the establishment of a kinetic skin or zone
between them, a firmament in which the two forces of Light and
Darkness could strive for mastery.  "And God called the firmament
Heaven."  The third creative act was the gathering of the solids
and liquids together, and the beginning of the kinetic work in
the creation of forms and shapes, by the cross play of the two
forces in their combinations of solid with gases.

All this had to happen before the manasa combined and dropped in
vibration to prana--and before the pranic globes were formed and
the Light could be manifested to us through them.  It may be well
to read the first chapter of Genesis over and ask forgiveness for
our ignorance, from the writer who records this creation of the
pranic globes as the fourth act of creation, and the creation of
the etheric sun and prakritic moon to follow that.  That record
is mutilated, fragmentary;  but the writer of it knew the facts.
If we had the full story, instead of a sentence here and there,
taken from an older story not to tell of creation but to hide
another tale for the priest, the writer of Genesis would laugh
last.

But let us return to the kinetic skin of energy between Light and
the Darkness--the firmament which God calls Heaven--the battle
ground for gravity and apergy, or attraction and repulsion, or
good and evil, or the powers of light and darkness.  This skin is
like that of an onion, thickest at the equator and thinnest at
the poles--not only on this earth but in the solar, alcyonic,
and manasic globes.  The equatorial belt, where phenomena are
richest in the manasic globes, we call the Milky Way;  in the
solar globe we call it the plane of the ecliptic;  and on the
earth, the tropics.  Modern science has not yet found it in
Alcyonic globe--because it has never thought of looking for it.

This division of the Light from the Darkness was all that was
required for evolution on the manasic globe within the kinetic
belt.  This evolution was not confined to the making of a few
alcyonic or pranic globes.  It was (and is) a great and wonderful
evolution beyond words and almost beyond imagination.  It is the
Heaven which mankind has longed to see and know.  The writer of
Genesis mixed it with the creation of this earth, using earthly
metaphors.  Before finding fault, we should better his language.
We have not the words in physics to do it, and must wait for our
metaphysics.  But of one thing we may be sure, that the pranic-
alcyonic globes here and there at the "sea level" of the manasic
globe--in what God calls Heaven--amount to no more on that
globe, or in Heaven, than so many balls of thistle-down blown
across a meadow do on this earth of ours.  Everything that can be
created in thought must be there.  It is in thought only, but in
thought it is differentiated as sharply as anything in prakriti.
The manasic world, the Heaven of the Bible, is as real as our own
world can possibly be;  in fact, more real, for when ours is
resolved back into its final elements, it will be but "the dust
of the ground" of the manasic world.

The pranic globes created in this manasic skin by Sound, or the
Logos, or vibration, evolved in identically the same way--with a
central static core and an outer static envelope, of low and high
vibration in prana, creating attraction and repulsion, or gravity
and apergy.  The kinetic skin between, in which these forces play
in the pranic world, makes a real, not an imaginary pranic world,
though but a faint reflection of the manasic.  When our father,
the Central Invisible Sun, transfers his attraction to these
alcyonic suns, the Light has something in which to manifest
itself, and we "see" this manifesting core and call it Alcyone,
and its manifestation Light;  but light in its last material
analysis is but the static mind or thought vibrating in the three
lower notes of the octave.


Chapter Nine

The Dual Man


Within the alcyonic globes of differentiated pranic-manasic atoms
the vibration divided them also into solid-liquid cores and
gaseous envelopes, and a kinetic skin of phenomena.  And then a
new world--a world of Life, came into material existence.  All
the atoms of thought or manasa, surrounding each and every pranic
atom, and making its molecule of energy, so to speak, were that
particular kind of kinetic manasa ready to change its rate of
vibration within an octave, and the forms prana assumes from the
action of thought within the kinetic belt were living and
thinking.  Each pranic globe, which was a small state of product
of the manasic, consisted of two globes in coadunition--two in
one.  Each pranic atom was the centre of a manasic molecule and
represented the universe.  All things were two in one, created by
harmonic vibration between them, and existence by the greater
strength of the lower notes, or attraction.  It was at once less
and more wonderful than the manasic world--a specialized form of
it.

