17th.  Up, and to my office, where busy all the morning, particularly
setting my people to work in transcribing pieces of letters publique and
private, which I do collect against a black day to defend the office with
and myself.  At noon dined at home, Mr. Hater with me alone, who do seem
to be confident that this nation will be undone, and with good reason:
Wishes himself at Hambrough, as a great many more, he says, he believes
do, but nothing but the reconciling of the Presbyterian party will save
us, and I am of his mind.  At the office all the afternoon, where every
moment business of one kind or other about the fire-ships and other
businesses, most of them vexatious for want of money, the commanders all
complaining that, if they miss to pay their men a night, they run away;
seamen demanding money of them by way of advance, and some of Sir
Fretcheville Hollis's men, that he so bragged of, demanding their tickets
to be paid, or they would not work: this Hollis, Sir W. Batten and W. Pen
say, proves a very .  .  ., as Sir W. B. terms him, and the other called
him a conceited, idle, prating, lying fellow.  But it was pleasant this
morning to hear Hollis give me the account what, he says, he told the King
in Commissioner Pett's presence, whence it was that his ship was fit
sooner than others, telling the King how he dealt with the several
Commissioners and agents of the Ports where he comes, offering Lanyon to
carry him a Ton or two of goods to the streights, giving Middleton an hour
or two's hearing of his stories of Barbadoes, going to prayer with Taylor,
and standing bare and calling, "If it please your Honour," to Pett, but
Sir W. Pen says that he tells this story to every body, and believes it to
be a very lie.  At night comes Captain Cocke to see me, and he and I an
hour in the garden together.  He tells me there have been great endeavours
of bringing in the Presbyterian interest, but that it will not do.  He
named to me several of the insipid lords that are to command the armies
that are to be raised.  He says the King and Court are all troubled, and
the gates of the Court were shut up upon the first coming of the Dutch to
us, but they do mind the business no more than ever: that the bankers, he
fears, are broke as to ready-money, though Viner had L100,000 by him when
our trouble begun: that he and the Duke of Albemarle have received into
their own hands, of Viner, the former L10,000, and the latter L12,000, in
tallies or assignments, to secure what was in his hands of theirs; and
many other great men of our. masters have done the like; which is no good
sign, when they begin to fear the main.  He and every body cries out of
the office of the Ordnance, for their neglects, both at Gravesend and
Upnor, and everywhere else.  He gone, I to my business again, and then
home to supper and to bed.  I have lately played the fool much with our
Nell, in playing with her breasts.  This night, late, comes a porter with
a letter from Monsieur Pratt, to borrow L100 for my Lord Hinchingbroke, to
enable him to go out with his troop in the country, as he is commanded;
but I did find an excuse to decline it.  Among other reasons to myself,
this is one, to teach him the necessity of being a good husband, and
keeping money or credit by him.

18th.  Up, and did this morning dally with Nell .  .  .  which I was
afterward troubled for.  To the office, and there all the morning.  Peg
Pen come to see me, and I was glad of it, and did resolve to have tried
her this afternoon, but that there was company with elle at my home,
whither I got her.  Dined at home, W. Hewer with me, and then to the
office, and to my Lady Pen's, and did find occasion for Peg to go home
with me to my chamber, but there being an idle gentleman with them, he
went with us, and I lost my hope.  So to the office, and by and by word
was brought me that Commissioner Pett is brought to the Tower, and there
laid up close prisoner; which puts me into a fright, lest they may do the
same with us as they do with him.  This puts me upon hastening what I am
doing with my people, and collecting out of my papers our defence. Myself
got Fist, Sir W. Batten's clerk, and busy with him writing letters late,
and then home to supper and to read myself asleep, after piping, and so to
bed.  Great newes to-night of the blowing up of one of the Dutch greatest
ships, while a Council of War was on board: the latter part, I doubt, is
not so, it not being confirmed since; but the former, that they had a ship
blown up, is said to be true.  This evening comes Sir G. Carteret to the
office, to talk of business at Sir W. Batten's; where all to be undone for
want of money, there being none to pay the Chest at their publique pay the
24th of this month, which will make us a scorn to the world.  After he had
done there, he and I into the garden, and walked; and the greatest of our
discourse is, his sense of the requisiteness of his parting with his being
Treasurer of the Navy, if he can, on any good terms.  He do harp upon
getting my Lord Bruncker to take it on half profit, but that he is not
able to secure him in paying him so much.  But the thing I do advise him
to do by all means, and he resolves on it, being but the same counsel
which I intend to take myself.  My Lady Jem goes down to Hinchingbroke to
lie down, because of the troubles of the times here.  He tells me he is
not sure that the King of France will not annoy us this year, but that the
Court seems [to] reckon upon it as a thing certain, for that is all that I
and most people are afeard of this year.  So while you wait for better
things and muse on schnapps and salad, I'll try my Pegasus his
wings and sing a little ballad:
A legend of your ancestors, the Wise Men of the East, Who brought among
their baggage train a quaint and curious beast.

Their horses were both swift and strong, and we should think it lucky If
we could buy, by telephone, such horses from Kentucky; Their dromedaries
paced along, magnificent and large, Their camels were as stately as if
painted by La Farge.

But this amazing little ass was never satisfied, He made more trouble every
day than all the rest beside:
His ears were long, his legs were short, his eyes were bleared and dim, But
nothing in the wide, wide world was good enough for him.

He did not like the way they went, but lifted up his voice And said
that any other way would be a better choice.
He braced his feet and stood his ground, and made the wise men wait, While
with his heels at all around he did recalcitrate.

It mattered not how fair the land through which the road might run,
He found new causes for complaint with every Morning Sun:
And when the shades of twilight fell and all the world grew nappy, They
tied him to his Evening Post, but still he was not happy.

He thought his load was far too large, he thought his food was bad, He
thought the Star a poor affair, he thought the Wise Men mad:
He did not like to hear them laugh,--'twas childish to be jolly; And if
perchance they sang a hymn,--'twas sentimental folly!

So day by day this little beast performed his level best To make their
life, in work and play, a burden to the rest:
And when they laid them down at night, he would not let them sleep,
But criticized the Universe with hee-haws loud and deep.

     One evening, as the Wise Men sat before their fire-lit tent, And
ate and drank and talked and sang, in grateful merriment, The solemn
donkey butted in, in his most solemn way, And broke the happy meeting
up with a portentous bray.

              "Now by my head," Balthazar said (his
               real name was Choate), "We've had about
               enough of this! I'll put it to the vote.
               
               I move the donkey be dismissed; let's turn
               him out to grass, And travel on our cheerful
               way, without the solemn ass."
               The vote was aye! and with a whack the Wise
               Men drove him out; But still he wanders up and
               down, and all the world about; You'll know
               him by his long, sad face and supercilious
               ways, And likewise by his morning kicks and
               by his evening brays.
               
               But while we sit at Eagle Roost and
               make our Twelfth Night cheer, Full well
               we know the solemn ass will not disturb
               us here:
               For pleasure rules the roost to-night, by
               order of the King, And every one must
               play his part, and laugh, and likewise
               sing.
               
               The road of life is long, we know, and
               often hard to find, And yet there's many a
               pleasant turn for men of cheerful mind:

                              We've done our day's work honestly, we've earned the right to rest,
We'll take a cup of friendship now and spice it with a jest.

A silent health to absent friends, their memories are bright!
A hearty health to all who keep the feast with us to-night!
A health to dear Centuria, oh, may she long abide!
A health, a health to all the world,--and the solemn ass, _outside_!

A BALLAD OF SANTA CLAUS
For the St. Nicholas Society of New York

Among the earliest saints of old, before the first Hegira, I find the
one whose name we hold, St. Nicholas of Myra:
The best-beloved name, I guess, in sacred nomenclature,-- The patron-saint
of helpfulness, and friendship, and good-nature.

A bishop and a preacher too, a famous theologian, He stood against the Arian
crew and fought them like a Trojan:
But when a poor man told his need and begged an alms in trouble, He never
asked about his creed, but quickly gave him double.

Three pretty maidens, so they say, were longing to be married; But they
were paupers, lack-a-day, and so the suitors tarried.
St. Nicholas gave each maid a purse of golden ducats chinking, And then,
for better or for worse, they wedded quick as winking.

Once, as he sailed, a storm arose; wild waves the ship surrounded; The sailors
wept and tore their clothes, and shrieked "We'll all be drownded!" St.
Nicholas never turned a hair; serenely shone his halo; He simply said
a little prayer, and all the billows lay low.

The wicked keeper of an inn had three small urchins taken, And cut them up
in a pickle-bin, and salted them for bacon.
St. Nicholas came and picked them out, and put their limbs together,--
They lived, they leaped, they gave a shout, "St. Nicholas forever!"
And thus it came to pass, you know, that maids without a nickel, And sailor-lads
when tempest blow, and children in a pickle, And every man that's fatherly,
and every kindly matron, In choosing saints would all agree to call St.
Nicholas patron.

He comes again at Christmas-time and stirs us up to giving; He rings the
merry bells that chime good-will to all the living; He blesses every
friendly deed and every free donation; He sows the secret, golden seed of
love through all creation.

Our fathers drank to Santa Claus, the sixth of each December, And still
we keep his feast because his virtues we remember.
Among the saintly ranks he stood, with smiling human features, And said,
"_Be good! But not too good to love your fellow-creatures!_"
December 6, 1907.

ARS AGRICOLARIS
An Ode for the "Farmer's Dinner," University Club, New York, January
23, 1913

All hail, ye famous Farmers!
Ye vegetable-charmers, Who know the art of making barren earth Smile with
prolific mirth And bring forth twins or triplets at a birth!
Ye scientific fertilizers of the soil, And horny-handed sons of toil!
To-night from all your arduous cares released, With manly brows no longer
sweat-impearled, Ye hold your annual feast, And like the Concord farmers
long ago, Ye meet above the "Bridge" below, And draw the cork heard round
the world!

What memories are yours! What tales Of triumph have your tongues rehearsed,
Telling how ye have won your first Potatoes from the stubborn mead,
(Almost as many as ye sowed for seed!) And how the luscious cabbages and
kails Have bloomed before you in their bed At seven dollars a head!
And how your onions took a prize For bringing tears into the eyes Of a
hard-hearted cook! And how ye slew The Dragon Cut-worm at a stroke!
And how ye broke, Routed, and put to flight the horrid crew Of vile potato-bugs
and Hessian flies!
And how ye did not quail Before th' invading armies of San José Scale, But
met them bravely with your little pail Of poison, which ye put upon each
tail O' the dreadful beasts and made their courage fail!
And how ye did acquit yourselves like men In fields of agricultural
strife, and then, Like generous warriors, sat you down at ease And
gently to your gardener said, "Let us have _Pease_!"

But _were_ there Pease? Ah, no, dear Farmers, no!
The course of Nature is not ordered so.
For when we want a vegetable most, She holds it back; And when we
boast To our week-endly friends Of what we'll give them on our farm, alack,
Those things the old dam, Nature, never sends.

O Pease in bottles, Sparrow-grass in jars, How often have ye saved from scars
Of shame, and deep embarrassment, The disingenuous farmer-gent, To whom
some wondering guest has cried, "How _do_ you raise such Pease and
Sparrow-grass?" Whereat the farmer-gent has not denied The compliment,
but smiling has replied, "To raise such things you must have lots of glass."

From wiles like these, true Farmers, hold aloof; Accept no praise unless you
have the proof.
If niggard Nature should withhold the green And sugary Pea, welcome the
humble Bean.
Even the easy Radish, and the Beet, If grown by your own toil are extra
sweet.
Let malefactors of great wealth and banker-felons Rejoice in foreign
artichokes, imported melons; But you, my Farmers, at your frugal board
Spread forth the fare your Sabine Farms afford.
Say to Mæcenas, when he is your guest, "No peaches! try this turnip, 'tis
my best." Thus shall ye learn from labors in the field What honesty a
farmer's life may yield, And like G. Washington in early youth, Though
cherries fail, produce a crop of truth.

But think me not too strict, O followers of the plough; Some place
for fiction in your lives I would allow.

In January when the world is drear, And bills come in, and no results appear,
And snow-storms veil the skies, And ice the streamlet clogs, Then may
you warm your heart with pleasant lies And revel in the seedsmen's
catalogues!
What visions and what dreams are these Of cauliflower obese,-- Of giant
celery, taller than a mast,-- Of strawberries Like red pincushions, round
and vast,-- Of succulent and spicy gumbo,-- Of cantaloupes, as big
as Jumbo,-- Of high-strung beans without the strings,-- And of a host of
other wild, romantic things!

Why, then, should Doctor Starr declare That modern habits mental force
impair?
And why should H. Marquand complain That jokes as good as his will never
come again?
And why should Bridges wear a gloomy mien About the lack of fiction for
his Magazine?
The seedsman's catalogue is all we need To stir our dull imaginations To
new creations, And lead us, by the hand Of Hope, into a fairy-land.

So dream, my friendly Farmers, as you will; And let your fancy all your
garners fill With wondrous crops; but always recollect That Nature gives
us less than we expect.
Scorn not the city where you earn the wealth That, spent upon your farms,
renews your health; And tell your wife, whene'er the bills have shocked
her, "A country-place is cheaper than a doctor." May roses bloom for you,
and may you find Your richest harvest in a tranquil mind.

[Transcriber's note: "fertilizers" above was "fetilizers" in the original.]

ANGLER'S FIRESIDE SONG

Oh, the angler's path is a very merry way, And his road through the world
is bright; For he lives with the laughing stream all day, And he lies by
the fire at night.

Sing hey nonny, ho nonny And likewise well-a-day!
The angler's life is a very jolly life And that's what the anglers say!

Oh, the angler plays for the pleasure of the game, And his creel may be full
or light, But the tale that he tells will be just the same When he
lies by the fire at night.

Sing hey nonny, ho nonny And likewise well-a-day!
We love the fire and the music of the lyre, And that's what the anglers
say!

To the San Francisco Fly-Casting Club, April, 1913.

HOW SPRING COMES TO SHASTA JIM

I never seen no "red gods"; I dunno wot's a "lure"; But if it's sumpin'
takin', then Spring has got it sure; An' it doesn't need no Kiplins, ner
yet no London Jacks, To make up guff about it, w'ile settin' in their
shacks.

It's sumpin' very simple 'at happens in the Spring, But it changes all the
lookin's of every blessed thing; The buddin' woods look bigger, the mounting
twice as high, But the house looks kindo smaller, tho I couldn't tell
ye why.

It's cur'ous wot a show-down the month of April makes, Between the reely
livin', an' the things 'at's only fakes!
Machines an' barns an' buildin's, they never give no sign; But the livin'
things look lively w'en Spring is on the line.

She doesn't come too suddin, ner she doesn't come too slow; Her gaits is
some cayprishus, an' the next ye never know,-- A single-foot o' sunshine,
a buck o' snow er hail,-- But don't be disapp'inted, fer Spring ain't
goin' ter fail.

She's loopin' down the hillside,--the driffs is fadin' out.
She's runnin' down the river,--d'ye see them risin' trout?
She's loafin' down the canyon,--the squaw-bed's growin' blue, An' the teeny
Johnny-jump-ups is jest a-peekin' thru.

A thousan' miles o' pine-trees, with Douglas firs between, Is waitin' fer
her fingers to freshen up their green; With little tips o' brightness
the firs 'ill sparkle thick, An' every yaller pine-tree, a giant
candle-stick!

     The underbrush is risin' an' spreadin' all around, Jest like a
     mist o' greenness 'at hangs above the ground; A million manzanitas
     'ill soon be full o' pink; So saddle up, my sonny,--it's time to
     ride, I think!
     
     We'll ford er swim the river, becos there ain't no bridge; We'll foot
     the gulches careful, an' lope along the ridge; We'll take the
     trail to Nowhere, an' travel till we tire, An' camp beneath a
pine-tree, an' sleep beside the fire.

We'll see the blue-quail chickens, an' hear 'em pipin' clear; An' p'raps
we'll sight a brown-bear, er else a bunch o' deer; But nary a heathen goddess
or god 'ill meet our eyes; For why? There isn't any! They're jest a pack
o' lies!

Oh, wot's the use o' "red gods," an' "Pan," an' all that stuff?
The natcheral facts o' Springtime is wonderful enuff!
An' if there's Someone made 'em, I guess He understood, To be alive in
Springtime would make a man feel good.

California, 1913.

A BUNCH OF TROUT-FLIES
For Archie Rutledge

Here's a half-a-dozen flies, Just about the proper size For the trout of
Dickey's Run,-- Luck go with them every one!

Dainty little feathered beauties, Listen now, and learn your duties:

Not to tangle in the box; Not to catch on logs or rocks, Boughs that
wave or weeds that float, Nor in the angler's "pants" or coat!
Not to lure the glutton frog From his banquet in the bog; Nor the lazy
chub to fool, Splashing idly round the pool; Nor the sullen hornèd pout
From the mud to hustle out!

None of this vulgarian crew, Dainty flies, is game for you.
Darting swiftly through the air Guided by the angler's care, Light upon
the flowing stream Like a wingèd fairy dream; Float upon the water
dancing, Through the lights and shadows glancing, Till the rippling current
brings you, And with quiet motion swings you, Where a speckled beauty
lies Watching you with hungry eyes.

Here's your game and here's your prize!
Hover near him, lure him, tease him, Do your very best to please him,
Dancing on the water foamy, Like the frail and fair Salome, Till the
monarch yields at last; Rises, and you have him fast!
Then remember well your duty,-- Do not lose, but land, your booty; For the
finest fish of all is _Salvelinus Fontinalis._
So, you plumed illusions, go, Let my comrade Archie know Every day he
goes a-fishing I'll be with him in well-wishing.
Most of all when lunch is laid In the dappled orchard shade, With Will,
Corinne, and Dixie too, Sitting as we used to do Round the white cloth
on the grass While the lazy hours pass, And the brook's contented tune Lulls
the sleepy afternoon,-- Then's the time my heart will be With that pleasant
company!

June 17, 1913.

INDEX OF FIRST LINES
A deeper crimson in the rose, A fir-tree standeth lonely A flawless
cup: how delicate and fine A little fir grew in the midst of the
wood A mocking question! Britain's answer came A silent world,--yet
full of vital joy A silken curtain veils the skies, A tear that
trembles for a little while Across a thousand miles of sea, a hundred
leagues of land, Afterthought of summer's bloom!
Ah, who will tell me, in these leaden days, All along the Brazos
River, All day long in the city's canyon-street, All hail, ye famous
Farmers!
All night long, by a distant bell All the trees are sleeping, all
the winds are still, Among the earliest saints of old, before the
first Hegira At dawn in silence moves the mighty stream, At sunset,
when the rosy light was dying
Children of the elemental mother, "Clam O! Fres' Clam!" How strange
it sounds and sweet, Come all ye good Centurions and wise men of
the times, Come, give me back my life again, you heavy-handed
Death!
Come home, my love, come home!
Could every time-worn heart but see Thee once again, Count not the
cost of honour to the dead!
Daughter of Psyche, pledge of that wild night Dear Aldrich, now
November's mellow days Dear to my heart are the ancestral dwellings
of America, _Deeds not Words_: I say so too!
Deep in the heart of the forest the lily of Yorrow is growing; "Do
you give thanks for this?--or that?" No, God be thanked Do you
remember, father,-- Does the snow fall at sea?
Ere thou sleepest gently lay 
Fair Phyllis is another's bride:
Fair Roslin Chapel, how divine Far richer than a thornless rose
Flowers rejoice when night is done, For that thy face is fair I
love thee not:
Four things a man must learn to do From the misty shores of midnight,
touched with splendours of the moon, Furl your sail, my little
boatie:
Give us a name to fill the mind Glory of architect, glory of painter,
and sculptor, and bard, God said, "I am tired of kings,"-- Great
Nature had a million words,
Hear a word that Jesus spake Heart of France for a hundred years,
Her eyes are like the evening air, Here's a half-a-dozen flies,
Here the great heart of France, Home, for my heart still calls
me:
Honour the brave who sleep Hours fly, How blind the toil that burrows
like the mole, "How can I tell," Sir Edmund said, _How long is the
night, brother,_ How long the echoes love to play
I count that friendship little worth I envy every flower that blows
I have no joy in strife, I love thine inland seas, I never seen no
"red gods"; I dunno wot's a "lure"; I never thought again to hear
I put my heart to school I read within a poet's book I think of
thee when golden sunbeams glimmer I would not even ask my heart to
say If all the skies were sunshine, If I have erred in showing all
my heart, If Might made Right, life were a wild-beasts' cage:
If on the closed curtain of my sight In a great land, a new land,
a land full of labour and riches and confusion, In mirth he mocks
the other birds at noon, In robes of Tynan blue the King was drest,
In the blue heaven the clouds will come and go, In the pleasant
time of Pentecost, Into the dust of the making of man, In warlike
pomp, with banners flowing, It pleased the Lord of Angels (praise
His name!) It's little I can tell It was my lot of late to travel
far
"Joy is a Duty,"--so with golden lore Joyful, joyful, we adore Thee,
Just to give up, and trust
Knight-Errant of the Never-ending Quest,
Let me but do my work from day to day, Let me but feel thy look's
embrace, "Lights out" along the land, Like a long arrow through the
dark the train is darting, Limber-limbed, lazy god, stretched on
the rock, Lord Jesus, Thou hast known Long ago Apollo called to
Aristæus, youngest of the shepherds, Long had I loved this "Attic
shape," the brede Long, long ago I heard a little song, Long, long,
long the trail Lover of beauty, walking on the height Low dost thou
lie amid the languid ooze,
March on, my soul, nor like a laggard stay!
Mother of all the high-strung poets and singers departed,
Not Dante when he wandered by the river Arno, Not to the swift, the
race:
Now in the oak the sap of life is welling,
O dark the night and dim the day O garden isle, beloved by Sun and
Sea, O Lord our God, Thy mighty hand O mighty river! strong, eternal
Will, O Mother mountains! billowing far to the snow-lands, O Music
hast thou only heard O who will walk a mile with me O wonderful!
How liquid clear O youngest of the giant brood Oh, gallantly they
fared forth in khaki and in blue, Oh, quick to feel the lightest
touch Oh, the angler's path is a very merry way, Oh, was I born too
soon, my dear, or were you born too late, Oh, what do you know of
the song, my dear, Oh, why are you shining so bright, big Sun, Once,
only once, I saw it clear,-- One sail in sight upon the lonely sea,
Only a little shrivelled seed,
Peace without Justice is a low estate,--
Read here, O friend unknown, Remember, when the timid light
Saints are God's flowers, fragrant souls Self is the only prison
that can ever bind the soul:
Ship after ship, and every one with a high-resounding name, Sign
of the Love Divine Some three-score years and ten ago Soul of a
soldier in a poet's frame, Stand back, ye messengers of mercy! Stand
Stand fast, Great Britain!He [Povy]
tells me that the other day, upon this ill newes of the Dutch being upon
us, White Hall was shut up, and the Council called and sat close; and, by
the way, he do assure me, from the mouth of some Privy-councillors, that
at this day the Privy-council in general do know no more what the state of
the kingdom as to peace and war is, than he or I; nor knows who manages
it, nor upon whom it depends; and there my Lord Chancellor did make a
speech to them, saying that they knew well that he was no friend to the
war from the beginning, and therefore had concerned himself little in, nor
could say much to it; and a great deal of that kind, to discharge himself
of the fault of the war.  Upon which my Lord Anglesey rose up and told his
Majesty that he thought their coming now together was not to enquire who
was, or was not, the cause of the war, but to enquire what was, or could
be, done in the business of making a peace, and in whose hands that was,
and where it was stopped or forwarded; and went on very highly to have all
made open to them: and, by the way, I remember that Captain Cocke did the
other day tell me that this Lord Anglesey hath said, within few days, that
he would willingly give L10,000 of his estate that he was well secured of
the rest, such apprehensions he hath of the sequel of things, as giving
all over for lost.  He tells me, speaking of the horrid effeminacy of the
King, that the King hath taken ten times more care and pains in making
friends between my Lady Castlemayne and Mrs. Stewart, when they have
fallen out, than ever he did to save his kingdom; nay, that upon any
falling out between my Lady Castlemayne's nurse and her woman, my Lady
hath often said she would make the King to make them friends, and they
would be friends and be quiet; which the King hath been fain to do: that
the King is, at this day, every night in Hyde Park with the Duchesse of
Monmouth, or with my Lady Castlemaine: that he [Povy] is concerned of late
by my Lord Arlington in the looking after some buildings that he is about
in Norfolke,  where my Lord is laying out a great deal of money; and that
he, Mr. Povy, considering the unsafeness of laying out money at such a
time as this, and, besides, the enviousness of the particular county, as
well as all the kingdom, to find him building and employing workmen, while
all the ordinary people of the country are carried down to the seasides
for securing the land, he thought it becoming him to go to my Lord
Arlington (Sir Thomas Clifford by), and give it as his advice to hold his
hands a little; but my Lord would not, but would have him go on, and so
Sir Thomas Clifford advised also, which one would think, if he were a
statesman worth a fart should be a sign of his foreseeing that all shall
do well.  But I do forbear concluding any such thing from them.  He tells
me that there is not so great confidence between any two men of power in
the nation at this day, that he knows of, as between my Lord Arlington and
Sir Thomas Clifford; and that it arises by accident only, there being no
relation nor acquaintance between them, but only Sir Thomas Clifford's
coming to him, and applying himself to him for favours, when he come first
up to town to be a Parliament-man.  He tells me that he do not think there
is anything in the world for us possibly to be saved by but the King of
France's generousnesse to stand by us against the Dutch, and getting us a
tolerable peace, it may be, upon our giving him Tangier and the islands he
hath taken, and other things he shall please to ask.  He confirms me in
the several grounds I have conceived of fearing that we shall shortly fall
into mutinys and outrages among ourselves, and that therefore he, as a
Treasurer, and therefore much more myself, I say, as being not only a
Treasurer but an officer of the Navy, on whom, for all the world knows,
the faults of all our evils are to be laid, do fear to be seized on by
some rude hands as having money to answer for, which will make me the more
desirous to get off of this Treasurership as soon as I can, as I had
before in my mind resolved.  Having done all this discourse, and concluded
the kingdom in a desperate condition, we parted; and I to my wife, with
whom was Mercer and Betty Michell, poor woman, come with her husband to
see us after the death of her little girle.  We sat in the garden together
a while, it being night, and then Mercer and I a song or two, and then in
(the Michell's home), my wife, Mercer, and I to supper, and then parted
and to bed.

25th.  Up, and with Sir W. Pen in his new chariot (which indeed is plain,
but pretty and more fashionable in shape than any coach he hath, and yet
do not cost him, harness and all, above L32) to White Hall; where staid a
very little: and thence to St. James's to [Sir] W. Coventry, whom I have
not seen since before the coming of the Dutch into the river, nor did
indeed know how well to go see him, for shame either to him or me, or both
of us, to find ourselves in so much misery.  I find that he and his
fellow-Treasurers are in the utmost want of money, and do find fault with
Sir G. Carteret, that, having kept the mystery of borrowing money to
himself so long, to the ruin of the nation, as [Sir] W. Coventry said in
words to [Sir] W. Pen and me, he should now lay it aside and come to them
for money for every penny he hath, declaring that he can raise no more:
which, I confess, do appear to me the most like ill-will of any thing that
I have observed of [Sir] W. Coventry, when he himself did tell us, on
another occasion at the same time, that the bankers who used to furnish
them money are not able to lend a farthing, and he knows well enough that
that was all the mystery [Sir] G. Carteret did use, that is, only his
credit with them.  He told us the masters and owners of the two ships that
I had complained of, for not readily setting forth their ships, which we
had taken up to make men-of-war, had been yesterday with the King and
Council, and had made their case so well understood, that the King did owe
them for what they had earned the last year, that they could not set them
out again without some money or stores out of the King's Yards; the latter
of which [Sir] W. Coventry said must be done, for that they were not able
to raise money for them, though it was but L200 a ship: which do skew us
our condition to be so bad, that I am in a total despair of ever having
the nation do well.  After talking awhile, and all out of heart with
stories of want of seamen, and seamen's running away, and their demanding
a month's advance, and our being forced to give seamen 3s. a-day to go
hence to work at Chatham, and other things that show nothing but
destruction upon us; for it is certain that, as it now is, the seamen of
England, in my conscience, would, if they could, go over and serve the
King of France or Holland rather than us.  Up to the Duke of York to his
chamber, where he seems to be pretty easy, and now and then merry; but yet
one may perceive in all their minds there is something of trouble and
care, and with good reason.  Thence to White Hall, and with Sir W. Pen, by
chariot; and there in the Court met with my Lord Anglesey: and he to talk
with [Sir] W. Pen, and told him of the masters of ships being with the
Council yesterday, and that we were not in condition, though the men were
willing, to furnish them with L200 of money, already due to them as earned
by them the last year, to enable them to set out their ships again this
year for the King: which he is amazed at; and when I told him, "My Lord,
this is a sad instance of the condition we are in," he answered, that it
was so indeed, and sighed: and so parted: and he up to the
Council-chamber, where I perceive they sit every morning, and I to
Westminster Hall, where it is Term time.  I met with none I knew, nor did
desire it, but only past through the-Hall and so back again, and by coach
home to dinner, being weary indeed of seeing the world, and thinking it
high time for me to provide against the foul weather that is certainly
coming upon us.  So to the office, and there [Sir] W. Pen and I did some
business, and then home to dinner, where my wife pleases me mightily with
what she can do upon the flageolet, and then I to the office again, and
busy all the afternoon, and it is worth noting that the King and Council,
in their order of the 23rd instant, for unloading three merchant-ships
taken up for the King's service for men-of-war, do call the late coming of
the Dutch "an invasion."  I was told, yesterday, that Mr. Oldenburg, our
Secretary at Gresham College, is put into the Tower, for writing newes to
a virtuoso in France, with whom he constantly corresponds in philosophical
matters; which makes it very unsafe at this time to write, or almost do
any thing.  Several captains come to the office yesterday and to-day,
complaining that their men come and go when they will, and will not be
commanded, though they are paid every night, or may be.  Nay, this
afternoon comes Harry Russell from Gravesend, telling us that the money
carried down yesterday for the Chest at Chatham had like to have been
seized upon yesterday, in the barge there, by seamen, who did beat our
watermen: and what men should these be but the boat's crew of Sir
Fretcheville Hollis, who used to brag so much of the goodness and order of
his men, and his command over them.  Busy all the afternoon at the office.
Towards night I with Mr. Kinaston to White Hall about a Tangier order, but
lost our labour, only met Sir H. Cholmly there, and he tells me great
newes; that this day in Council the King hath declared that he will call
his Parliament in thirty days: which is the best newes I have heard a
great while, and will, if any thing, save the kingdom.  How the King come
to be advised to this, I know not; but he tells me that it was against the
Duke of York's mind flatly, who did rather advise the King to raise money
as he pleased; and against the Chancellor's, who told the King that Queen
Elizabeth did do all her business in eighty-eight without calling a
Parliament, and so might he do, for anything he saw.  But, blessed be God!
it is done; and pray God it may hold, though some of us must surely go to
the pot, for all must be flung up to them, or nothing will be done.  So
back home, and my wife down by water, I sent her, with Mrs. Hewer and her
son, W. Hewer, to see the sunk ships, while I staid at the office, and in
the evening was visited by Mr. Roberts the merchant by us about the
getting him a ship cleared from serving the King as a man of war, which I
will endeavour to do.  So home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and in dressing myself in my dressing chamber comes up Nell,
and I did play with her .  .  .  .  So being ready I to White Hall by
water, and there to the Lords Treasurers' chamber, and there wait, and
here it is every body's discourse that the Parliament is ordered to meet
the 25th of July, being, as they say, St. James's day; which every
creature is glad of.  But it is pretty to consider how, walking to the Old
Swan from my house, I met Sir Thomas Harvy, whom, asking the newes of the
Parliament's meeting, he told me it was true, and they would certainly
make a great rout among us.  I answered, I did not care for my part,
though I was ruined, so that the Commonwealth might escape ruin by it.  He
answered, that is a good one, in faith; for you know yourself to be
secure, in being necessary to the office; but for my part, says he, I must
look to be removed; but then, says he, I doubt not but I shall have amends
made me; for all the world knows upon what terms I come in; which is a
saying that a wise man would not unnecessarily have said, I think, to any
body, meaning his buying his place of my Lord Barkely [of Stratton].  So
we parted, and I to White Hall, as I said before, and there met with Sir
Stephen Fox and Mr. Scawen, who both confirm the news of the Parliament's
meeting.  Here I staid for an order for my Tangier money, L30,000, upon
the 11 months' tax, and so away to my Lord Arlington's office, and there
spoke to him about Mr. Lanyon's business, and received a good answer, and
thence to Westminster Hall and there walked a little, and there met with
Colonell Reames, who tells me of a letter come last night, or the day
before, from my Lord St. Albans, out of France, wherein he says, that the
King of France did lately fall out with him, giving him ill names, saying
that he had belied him to our King, by saying that he had promised to
assist our King, and to forward the peace; saying that indeed he had
offered to forward the peace at such a time, but it was not accepted of,
and so he thinks himself not obliged, and would do what was fit for him;
and so made him to go out of his sight in great displeasure: and he hath
given this account to the King, which, Colonell Reymes tells me, puts them
into new melancholy at Court, and he believes hath forwarded the
resolution of calling the Parliament. Wherewith for all this I am very
well contented, and so parted and to the Exchequer, but Mr. Burgess was
not in his office; so alone to the Swan, and thither come Mr. Kinaston to
me, and he and I into a room and there drank and discoursed, and I am
mightily pleased with him for a most diligent and methodical man in all
his business.  By and by to Burgess, and did as much as we could with him
about our Tangier order, though we met with unexpected delays in it, but
such as are not to be avoided by reason of the form of the Act and the
disorders which the King's necessities do put upon it, and therefore away
by coach, and at White Hall spied Mr. Povy, who tells me, as a great
secret, which none knows but himself, that Sir G. Carteret hath parted
with his place of Treasurer of the Navy, by consent, to my Lord Anglesey,
and is to be Treasurer of Ireland in his stead; but upon what terms it is
I know not, but Mr. Povy tells it is so, and that it is in his power to
bring me to as great a friendship and confidence in my Lord Anglesey as
ever I was with [Sir] W. Coventry, which I am glad of, and so parted, and
I to my tailor's about turning my old silk suit and cloak into a suit and
vest, and thence with Mr. Kinaston (whom I had set down in the Strand and
took up again at the Temple gate) home, and there to dinner, mightily
pleased with my wife's playing on the flageolet, and so after dinner to
the office.  Such is the want already of coals, and the despair of having
any supply, by reason of the enemy's being abroad, and no fleete of ours
to secure, that they are come, as Mr. Kinaston tells me, at this day to L5
10s. per chaldron.  All the afternoon busy at the office.  In the evening
with my wife and Mercer took coach and to Islington to the Old House, and
there eat and drank and sang with great pleasure, and then round by
Hackney home with great pleasure, and when come home to bed, my stomach
not being well pleased with the cream we had to-night.

27th.  Wakened this morning, about three o'clock, by Mr. Griffin with a
letter from Sir W. Coventry to W. Pen, which W. Pen sent me to see, that
the Dutch are come up to the Nore again, and he knows not whether further
or no, and would have, therefore, several things done: ships sunk, and I
know not what--which Sir W. Pen (who it seems is very ill this night, or
would be thought so) hath directed Griffin to carry to the Trinity House;
so he went away with the letter, and I tried and with much ado did get a
little sleep more, and so up about six o'clock, full of thought what to do
with the little money I have left and my plate, wishing with all my heart
that that was all secured.  So to the office, where much business all the
morning, and the more by my brethren being all out of the way; Sir W. Pen
this night taken so ill cannot stir; [Sir] W. Batten ill at Walthamstow;
Sir J. Minnes the like at Chatham, and my Lord Bruncker there also upon
business.  Horrible trouble with the backwardness of the merchants to let
us have their ships, and seamen's running away, and not to be got or kept
without money.  It is worth turning to our letters this day to Sir W.
Coventry about these matters.  At noon to dinner, having a haunch of
venison boiled; and all my clerks at dinner with me; and mightily taken
with Mr. Gibson's discourse of the faults of this war in its management
compared [with] that in the last war, which I will get him to put into
writing.  Thence, after dinner, to the office again, and there I saw the
proclamations come out this day for the Parliament to meet the 25th of
next month; for which God be praised! and another to invite seamen to
bring in their complaints, of their being ill-used in the getting their
tickets and money, there being a Committee of the Council appointed to
receive their complaints.  This noon W. Hewer and T. Hater both tell me
that it is all over the town, and Mr. Pierce tells me also, this afternoon
coming to me, that for certain Sir G. Carteret hath parted with his
Treasurer's place, and that my Lord Anglesey is in it upon agreement and
change of places, though the latter part I do not think.  This Povy told
me yesterday, and I think it is a wise act of [Sir] G. Carteret.  April,
1911.

THE OLD FLUTE

The time will come when I no more can play This polished flute: the stops
will not obey My gnarled fingers; and the air it weaves In modulations,
like a vine with leaves Climbing around the tower of song, will die
In rustling autumn rhythms, confused and dry.
My shortened breath no more will freely fill This magic reed with melody
at will; My stiffened lips will try and try in vain To wake the
liquid, leaping, dancing strain; The heavy notes will falter, wheeze,
and faint, Or mock my ear with shrillness of complaint.

Then let me hang this faithful friend of mine Upon the trunk of some old,
sacred pine, And sit beneath the green protecting boughs To hear the
viewless wind, that sings and soughs Above me, play its wild, aerial lute,
And draw a ghost of music from my flute!

So will I thank the gods; and most of all The Delian Apollo, whom men call
The mighty master of immortal sound,-- Lord of the billows in their
chanting round, Lord of the winds that fill the wood with sighs, Lord of
the echoes and their sweet replies, Lord of the little people of the
air That sprinkle drops of music everywhere, Lord of the sea of
melody that laves The universe with never silent waves,-- Him will
I thank that this brief breath of mine Has caught one cadence of
the song divine; And these frail fingers learned to rise and fall
In time with that great tune which throbs thro' all; And these poor
lips have lent a lilt of joy To songless men whom weary tasks employ!

My life has had its music, and my heart In harmony has borne a little
part, And now I come with quiet, grateful breast To Death's dim hall of
silence and of rest.

Freely rendered from the French of Auguste Angellier, 1911.

THE FIRST BIRD O' SPRING 
TO OLIVE WHEELER
Winter on Mount Shasta, April down below; Golden hours of glowing
sun, Sudden showers of snow!
Under leafless thickets Early wild-flowers cling; But, oh, my dear,
I'm fain to hear The first bird o' Spring!
Alders are in tassel, Maples are in bud; Waters of the blue McCloud
Shout in joyful flood; Through the giant pine-trees Flutters many
a wing; But, oh, my dear, I long to hear The first bird o' Spring!Coventry gone this morning, by two o'clock, to Chatham, to come home
to-night: and it is fine to observe how both the King and Duke of York
have, in their several late journeys to and again, done them in the night
for coolnesse.  Thence with him to the Treasury Chamber, and then to the
Exchequer to inform ourselves a little about our warrant for L30,000 for
Tangier, which vexes us that it is so far off in time of payment.  Having
walked two or three turns with him in the Hall we parted, and I home by
coach, and did business at the office till noon, and then by water to
White Hall to dinner to Sir G. Carteret, but he not at home, but I dined
with my Lady and good company, and good dinner.  My Lady and the family in
very good humour upon this business of his parting with his place of
Treasurer of the Navy, which I perceive they do own, and we did talk of it
with satisfaction.  They do here tell me that the Duke of Buckingham hath
surrendered himself to Secretary Morrice, and is going to the Tower.  Mr.
Fenn, at the table, says that he hath been taken by the watch two or three
times of late, at unseasonable hours, but so disguised that they could not
know him: and when I come home, by and by, Mr. Lowther tells me that the
Duke of Buckingham do dine publickly this day at Wadlow's, at the Sun
Tavern; and is mighty merry, and sent word to the Lieutenant of the Tower,
that he would come to him as soon as he had dined.  Now, how sad a thing
it is, when we come to make sport of proclaiming men traitors, and
banishing them, and putting them out of their offices, and Privy Council,
and of sending to and going to the Tower: God have mercy on us!  At table,
my Lady and Sir Philip Carteret have great and good discourse of the
greatness of the present King of France--what great things he hath done,
that a man may pass, at any hour in the night, all over that wild city
[Paris], with a purse in his hand and no danger: that there is not a
beggar to be seen in it, nor dirt lying in it; that he hath married two of
Colbert's daughters to two of the greatest princes of France, and given
them portions--bought the greatest dukedom in France, and given it to
Colbert;

     [The Carterets appear to have mystified Pepys, who eagerly believed
     all that was told him.  At this time Paris was notoriously unsafe,
     infested with robbers and beggars, and abominably unclean.  Colbert
     had three daughters, of whom the eldest was just married when Pepys
     wrote, viz., Jean Marie Therese, to the Duc de Chevreuse, on the 3rd
     February, 1667.  The second daughter, Henriette Louise, was not
     married to the Duc de St. Aignan till January 21st, 1671; and the
     third, Marie Anne, to the Duc de Mortemart, February 14th, 1679.
     Colbert himself was never made a duke.  His highest title was
     Marquis de Seignelay.--B.]

and ne'er a prince in France dare whisper against it, whereas here our
King cannot do any such thing, but everybody's mouth is open against him
for it, and the man that hath the favour also.  That to several commanders
that had not money to set them out to the present campagne, he did of his
own accord--send them L1000 sterling a-piece, to equip themselves.  But
then they did enlarge upon the slavery of the people--that they are taxed
more than the real estates they have; nay, it is an ordinary thing for
people to desire to give the King all their land that they have, and
themselves become only his tenants, and pay him rent to the full value of
it: so they may have but their earnings, But this will not be granted; but
he shall give the value of his rent, and part of his labour too.  That
there is not a petty governor of a province--nay, of a town, but he will
take the daughter from the richest man in the town under him, that hath
got anything, and give her to his footman for a wife if he pleases, and
the King of France will do the like to the best man in his kingdom--take
his daughter from him, and give her to his footman, or whom he pleases.
It is said that he do make a sport of us now; and says, that he knows no
reason why his cozen, the King of England, should not be as willing to let
him have his kingdom, as that the Dutch should take it from him, which is
a most wretched thing that ever we should live to be in this most
contemptible condition.  After dinner Sir G. Carteret come in, and I to
him and my Lady, and there he did tell me that the business was done
between him and my Lord Anglesey; that himself is to have the other's
place of Deputy Treasurer of Ireland, which is a place of honour and great
profit, being far better, I know not for what reason, but a reason there
is, than the Treasurer's, my Lord of Corke's, and to give the other his,
of Treasurer of the Navy; that the King, at his earnest entreaty, did,
with much unwillingness, but with owning of great obligations to him, for
his faithfulness and long service to him and his father, and therefore was
willing to grant his desire.  That the Duke of York hath given him the
same kind words, so that it is done with all the good manner that could
be, and he I perceive do look upon it, and so do I, I confess, as a great
good fortune to him to meet with one of my Lord Anglesey's quality willing
to receive it at this time.  Sir W. Coventry he hath not yet made
acquainted with it, nor do intend it, it being done purely to ease himself
of the many troubles and plagues which he thinks the perverseness and
unkindness of Sir W. Coventry and others by his means have and is likely
every day to bring upon him, and the Parliament's envy, and lastly to put
himself into a condition of making up his accounts, which he is, he says,
afeard he shall never otherwise be.  My Lord Chancellor, I perceive, is
his friend in it.  I remember I did in the morning tell Sir H. Cholmly of
this business: and he answered me, he was sorry for it; for, whatever Sir
G. Carteret was, he is confident my Lord Anglesey is one of the greatest
knaves in the world, which is news to me, but I shall make my use of it.
Having done this discourse with Sir G. Carteret, and signified my great
satisfaction in it, which they seem to look upon as something, I went away
and by coach home, and there find my wife making of tea, a drink which Mr.
Pelling, the Potticary, tells her is good for her cold and defluxions.  I
to the office (whither come Mr. Carcasse to me to sue for my favour to
him), and Sir W. Pen's, where I find Mr. Lowther come to town after the
journey, and after a small visit to him, I to the office to do much
business, and then in the evening to Sir W. Batten's, to see how he did;
and he is better than he was.  He told me how Mrs. Lowther had her train
held up yesterday by her page, at his house in the country; which is so
ridiculous a piece of pride as I am ashamed of.  He told me also how he
hears by somebody that my Lord Bruncker's maid hath told that her lady
Mrs. Williams had sold her jewels and clothes to raise money for something
or other; and indeed the last night a letter was sent from her to me, to
send to my Lord, with about five pieces of gold in it, which methought at
the time was but a poor supply.  I then to Sir W. Pen, who continues a
little ill, or dissembles it, the latter of which I am apt to believe.
Here I staid but little, not meaning much kindness in it; and so to the
office, and dispatched more business; and then home at night, and to
supper with my wife, and who should come in but Mr. Pelling, and supped
with us, and told us the news of the town; how the officers of the Navy
are cried out upon, and a great many greater men; but do think that I
shall do well enough; and I think, if I have justice, I shall.  He tells
me of my Lord Duke of Buckingham, his dining to-day at the Sun, and that
he was mighty merry; and, what is strange, tells me that really he is at
this day a very popular man, the world reckoning him to suffer upon no
other account than that he did propound in Parliament to have all the
questions that had to do with the receipt of the taxes and prizes; but
they must be very silly that do think he can do any thing out of good
intention.  After a great deal of tittle-tattle with this honest man, he
gone we to bed.  We hear that the Dutch are gone down again; and thanks be
to God!  the trouble they give us this second time is not very
considerable.

29th.  Up, having had many ugly dreams to-night of my father and my sister
and mother's coming to us, and meeting my wife and me at the gate of the
office going out, they all in laced suits, and come, they told me, to be
with me this May day.  My mother told me she lacked a pair of gloves, and
I remembered a pair of my wife's in my chamber, and resolved she should
have them, but then recollected how my mother come to be here when I was
in mourning for her, and so thinking it to be a mistake in our thinking
her all this while dead, I did contrive that it should be said to any that
enquired that it was my mother-in-law, my wife's mother, that was dead,
and we in mourning for.  This dream troubled me and I waked . .  .  .
These dreams did trouble me mightily all night.  Up, and by coach to St.
James's, and there find Sir W. Coventry and Sir W. Pen above stairs, and
then we to discourse about making up our accounts against the Parliament;
and Sir W. Coventry did give us the best advice he could for us to provide
for our own justification, believing, as everybody do, that they will fall
heavily upon us all, though he lay all upon want of money, only a little,
he says (if the Parliament be in any temper), may be laid upon themselves
for not providing money sooner, they being expressly and industriously
warned thereof by him, he says, even to the troubling them, that some of
them did afterwards tell him that he had frighted them.  He says he do
prepare to justify himself, and that he hears that my Lord Chancellor, my
Lord Arlington, the Vice Chamberlain and himself are reported all up and
down the Coffee houses to be the four sacrifices that must be made to
atone the people.  Then we to talk of the loss of all affection and
obedience, now in the seamen, so that all power is lost. He told us that
he do concur in thinking that want of money do do the most of it, but that
that is not all, but the having of gentlemen Captains, who discourage all
Tarpaulins, and have given out that they would in a little time bring it
to that pass that a Tarpaulin should not dare to aspire to more than to be
a Boatswain or a gunner.  That this makes the Sea Captains to lose their
own good affections to the service, and to instil it into the seamen also,
and that the seamen do see it themselves and resent it; and tells us that
it is notorious, even to his bearing of great ill will at Court, that he
hath been the opposer of gentlemen Captains; and Sir W. Pen did put in,
and said that he was esteemed to have been the man that did instil it into
Sir W. Coventry, which Sir W. Coventry did owne also, and says that he
hath always told the Gentlemen Captains his opinion of them, and that
himself who had now served to the business of the sea 6 or 7 years should
know a little, and as much as them that had never almost been at sea, and
that yet he found himself fitter to be a Bishop or Pope than to be a
Sea-Commander, and so indeed he is.  I begun to tell him of the experience
I had of the great brags made by Sir F. Hollis the other day, and the
little proof either of the command or interest he had in his men, which
Sir W. Pen seconded by saying Sir Fr. Hollis had told him that there was
not a pilot to be got the other day for his fire-ships, and so was forced
to carry them down himself, which Sir W. Coventry says, in my conscience,
he knows no more to do and understand the River no more than he do Tiber
or Ganges. Thence I away with Sir W. Pen to White Hall, to the Treasury
Chamber, but to no purpose, and so by coach home, and there to my office
to business, and then home to dinner, and to pipe with my wife, and so to
the office again, having taken a resolution to take a turn to Chatham
to-morrow, indeed to do business of the King's, but also to give myself
the satisfaction of seeing the place after the Dutch have been here.  I
have sent to and got Creed to go with me by coach betimes to-morrow
morning. Her first idea, naturally, was to make application to Dame Landfried
at Zumarshofen; but she knew what a bad appearance a begging letter
would make in the eyes of the rich farmer's wife, who perhaps would not
have any ready money anyway. Then she thought of old Farmer Rodel, who had
promised to remember her in his will; could he be induced to give her now
what he intended to give her later on, even if it should be less?
Then again, it occurred to her that perhaps Scheckennarre, who was now
getting on especially well, might be induced to contribute something.

She said nothing to Damie about all this. But when she examined his wardrobe,
and with great difficulty induced Black Marianne to let her have on
credit some of the old woman's heaped-up stores of linen, and when she
began to cut out this linen and sat up at night making shirts of it--all
these steady and active preparations made Damie almost tremble. To be sure,
he had acted all along as if his plan of emigrating were irrevocably fixed
in his mind--and yet now he seemed almost bound to go, to be under
compulsion, as if his sister's strong will were forcing him to carry
out his design. And his sister seemed almost hard-hearted to him, as if
she were thrusting him away to get rid of him. He did not, indeed, dare
to say this openly, but he began to grumble and complain a good deal about
it, and Barefoot looked upon this as suppressed grief over parting--the
feeling that would gladly take advantage of little obstacles and represent
them as hindrances to the fulfilment of a purpose one would gladly
leave unfulfilled.

First of all she went to old Farmer Rodel, and in plain words asked
him to let her have at once the legacy that he had promised her long
ago.

The old man replied:

"Why do you press it so? Can't you wait? What's the matter with you?"

"Nothing's the matter with me, but I can't wait."
Then she told him that she was fitting out her brother who was going to
emigrate to America. This was a good chance for old Rodel; he could now
give his natural hardness the appearance of benevolence and prudent
forethought. Accordingly he declared to Barefoot that he would not give
her one farthing now, for he did not want to be responsible for her ruining
herself for that brother of hers.

Barefoot then begged him to be her advocate with Scheckennarre. At last
he was induced to consent to this; and he took great credit to himself
for thus consenting to go begging to a man he did not know on behalf of a
stranger. He kept postponing the fulfilment of his promise from day to
day, but Barefoot did not cease from reminding him of it; and so,
at last, he set forth.

But, as might have been anticipated, he came back empty-handed; for the
first thing Scheckennarre did was to ask how much Farmer Rodel himself
was going to give, and when he heard that Rodel, for the present, was
not going to give anything, his course, too, was clear and he followed
it.

When Barefoot told Black Marianne how hurt she felt at this hard-heartedness,
the old woman said:

"Yes, that's just how people are! If a man were to jump into the water
tomorrow and be taken out dead, they would all say: 'If he had only told
me what was amiss with him, I should have been very glad to help him in
every way and to have given him something. What would I not give now,
if I could restore him to life!' But to keep a man alive, they won't stir
a finger."
Strangely enough, the very fact that the whole weight of things
always fell upon Barefoot made her bear it all more easily. "Yes, one must
always depend upon oneself alone," was her secret motto; and instead of
letting obstacles discourage her, she only strove harder to surmount them.
She scraped together and turned into money whatever of her possessions she
could lay hands on; even the valuable necklace she had received in the
old days from Farmer Landfried's wife went its way to the widow of the
old sexton, a worthy woman who supported herself in her widowhood by
lending money at high interest on security; the ducat, too, which she had
once thrown after Severin in the churchyard, was brought into requisition.
And, marvelous to relate, old Farmer Rodel offered to obtain a considerable
contribution from the Village Council, of which he was a member; he was
fond of doing virtuous and benevolent things with the public money!

Still it almost frightened Barefoot when he announced to her, after a
few days, that everything had been granted--but upon the one condition,
that Damie should entirely give up his right to live in the village. Of
course, that had been understood from the first--no one had expected
anything else; but still, now that it was an express condition, it seemed
like a very formidable matter to have no home anywhere. Barefoot said nothing
about this thought to Damie, who seemed cheerful and of good courage. Black
Marianne, especially, continued to urge him strongly to go; for she
would have been glad to send the whole village away to foreign parts,
if only she could at last get tidings of her John. And now she had
firmly taken up the notion that he had sailed across the seas. Crappy
Zachy had indeed told her, that the reason she could not cry any more
was because the ocean, the great salty deep, absorbed the tears which
one might be disposed to shed for one who was on the other shore.

Barefoot received permission from her employers to accompany her brother
when he went to town to conclude the arrangement for his passage
with the agent.

     Greatly were both of them astonished when they learned, on arriving
     at the office, that this had already been done. The Village Council
     had already taken the necessary steps, and Damie was to have his
     rights and corresponding obligations as one of the village poor.
     On board the ship, before it sailed out into the wide ocean, he
     would have to sign a paper, attesting his embarkation, and not
until then would the money be paid.

The brother and sister returned sorrowfully to the village. Damie had
been seized with a fit of his old despondency, because a thing had now
to be carried out which he himself had wished. And Barefoot herself felt
deeply grieved at the thought that her brother was, in a way, to be
expelled from his native land. At the boundary-line Damie said aloud to
the sign-post, on which the name of the village and of the district were
painted:

"You there! I don't belong to you any longer, and all the people who live
here are no more to me than you are."
Barefoot started to cry; but she resolved within herself that this should
be the last time until her brother's departure, and until he was fairly
gone. And she kept her word to herself.

The people in the village said that Barefoot had no heart, because her
eyes were not wet when her brother went away. People like to see tears
actually shed--for what do they care about those that are shed in secret?
But Barefoot was calm and brave.

Only during the last days before Damie set out did she for the first time
fail in her duty; for she neglected her work by being with Damie all the
time. She let Rose upbraid her for it, and merely said: "You are right."
But still she ran after her brother everywhere--she did not want
to lose a minute of his company as long as he was there. She very likely
felt that she might be able to do something special for him at any
moment, or say something special that would be of use to him
all his life; and she was vexed with herself for finding nothing but quite
ordinary things to say, and for even quarreling with him sometimes.

Oh, these hours of parting! How they oppress the heart! How all the past and
all the future seem crowded together into one moment, and one knows not how
to set about anything rightly, and only a look or a touch must tell
all that is felt!

Still Amrei found good words to speak. When she counted out her brother's
stock of linen she said:

"These are good, respectable shirts--keep yourself respectable and good in
them."
And when she packed everything into the big sack, on which her father's
name was still to be seen, she said:

"Bring this back full of glittering gold; then you shall see how glad
they will be to give you back the right to live here. And Farmer Rodel's
Rose, if she's still unmarried, will jump over seven houses to get you."

And when she laid their father's ax in the large chest, she said:

"How smooth the handle is! How often it has slipped through our father's
hand. I fancy I can still feel his touch upon it! So now I have a motto
for you--'Sack and Ax.' Working and gathering in, those are the best
things in life--they make one keep cheerful and well and happy. God
keep you! And say to yourself very often--'Sack and Ax.' I shall do the
same, and that shall be our motto, our remembrance, our call to each
other when we are far, far apart, and until you write to me, or come to
fetch me, or do what you can, as God shall will it. 'Sack and Ax'--yes it's
all included in that; so one can treasure up everything--all thoughts
and all that one has earned!"
And when Damie was sitting up in the wagon, and for the last time gave
her his hand, for a long time she would not release it. And when at last
he drove away, she called out after him with a loud voice:

"'Sack and Ax'--don't forget that!"
He looked back, waved his hand to her, and then--he was gone.

[Illustration: HE GAVE HER HIS HAND FOR THE LAST TIME]

CHAPTER IX
AN UNINVITED GUEST

"Glory to America!" the village watchman, to the amusement of all,
cried several nights when he called out the hours, in place of the usual
thanksgiving to God. Crappy Zachy, being a man of no consideration himself,
was fond of speaking evil of the poor when he found himself among what
he called "respectable people," and on Sunday when he came out of church,
or on an afternoon when he sat on the long bench outside the "Heathcock,"
he would say:

"Columbus was a real benefactor. From what did he not deliver us? Yes,
America is the pig-trough of the Old World, and into it everything
that can't be used in the kitchen is dumped--cabbage and turnips and all
sorts of things. And for the piggies who live in the castle behind the
house, and understand French--'Oui! Oui!'--there's very good feeding
there."
In the general dearth of interesting subjects, Damie and his emigrating
naturally formed the main topic of conversation for a considerable
time, and the members of the Council praised their own wisdom in having
rid the place of a person who would certainly have come to be a burden
on the community. For a man who goes driving about from one trade to another
is sure to drive himself into ruin eventually.

Of course, there were plenty of good-natured people who reported to Barefoot
all that was said of her brother, and told her how he was made a laughing-stock.
But Barefoot merely smiled. When Damie's first letter came from
Bremen--nobody had ever thought that he could write so properly--then she
exulted before the eyes of men, and read the letter aloud several times;
but in secret she was sorry to have lost such a brother, probably forever.
She reproached herself for not having put him forward enough, for it was
now evident what a sharp lad Damie was, and so good too! He wanted to take
leave of the whole village as he had taken leave of the post at the
boundary-line, and he now filled almost a whole page with remembrances
to different people, calling each one "the dear" or "the good" or
"the worthy."

     Barefoot reaped a great deal of praise everywhere she delivered
these greetings, and each time pointed to the precise place, and
said:

"See--there it stands!"

     For a time Barefoot was silent and
     abstracted; she seemed to repent of having let her
     brother go, or of having refused to go with him. Formerly she
     had always been heard singing in the stable and barn, in the kitchen
     and chamber, and when she went out with the scythe over her shoulder
and the grass-cloth under her arm; but now she was silent.

                She seemed to be making an effort to restrain herself.

            Still there was one time when she allowed people to hear her voice
again; in the evening, when she put Farmer Rodel's children to bed,
she sang incessantly, even long after the children were asleep.

    Then she would hurry over to Black Marianne's and supply her with
 wood and water and whatever else the old woman wanted.
                      

                              On Sunday afternoons, when everybody was out for a good time,
Barefoot often used to stand quiet and motionless at the door of
her house, looking out into the world and at the sky in dreamy,
far-off meditation, wondering where Damie was now and how he was
getting on.

                      And then she would stand and gaze for a long time at an overturned
plow, or watch a fowl clawing in the sand.

                        When a vehicle passed through the village, she would look up and
say, almost aloud:

"They are driving to somebody.

                        On all the roads of the world there is nobody coming to me, and no
one thinking of me.

                          And do I not belong here
                                 too?"
                                 

And then she would make believe to herself that she was expecting something,
and her heart would beat faster, as if for somebody who was coming. And
involuntarily the old song rose to her lips:
All the brooklets in the wide world, They run their way to the Sea;
But there's no one in this wide world, Who can open my heart for
me.
"I wish I were as old as you," she once said to Black Marianne,
after dreaming in this way.
"Be glad that a wish is but a word," replied the old woman. "When
I was your age I was merry; and down there at the plaster-mill I
weighed a hundred and thirty-two pounds."
"But you are the same at one time as at another, while I am not at
all--even."
"If one wants to be 'even' one had better cut one's nose off, and
then one's face will be even all over. You little simpleton! Don't
fret your young years away, for nobody will give them back to you;
and the old ones will come of their own accord."
Black Marianne did not find it very difficult to comfort Barefoot;
only when she was alone, did a strange anxiety come over her. What
did it mean?
A wonderful rumor was now pervading the village; for many days there
had been talk of a wedding that was to be celebrated at Endringen,
with such festivities as had not been seen in the country within
the memory of man. The eldest daughter of Dominic and Ameile--whom
we know, from Lehnhold--was to marry a rich wood-merchant from the
Murg Valley, and it was said that there would be such merry-making
as had never yet been seen.
The day drew nearer and nearer. Wherever two girls meet, they draw
each other behind a hedge or into the hallway of a house, and there's
no end to their talking, though they declare emphatically that they
are in a particular hurry. It is said that everybody from the
Oberland is coming, and everybody from the Murg Valley for a distance
of sixty miles! For it is a large family. At the Town-hall pump,
there the true gossiping goes on; but not a single girl will own
to having a new dress, lest she should lose the pleasure of seeing
the surprise and admiration of her companions, when the day arrived.
In the excitement of asking and answering questions, the duty of
water-carrying is forgotten, and Barefoot, who arrives last, is the
first to leave with her bucketful of water. What is the dance to
her? And yet she feels as if she hears music everywhere.
The next day Barefoot had much running back and forth to do in the
house; for she was to dress Rose for the great occasion.After being ready we took coach, and, being very sleepy,
droused most part of the way to Gravesend, and there 'light, and down to
the new batterys, which are like to be very fine, and there did hear a
plain fellow cry out upon the folly of the King's officers above, to spend
so much money in works at Woolwich and Deptford, and sinking of good ships
loaden with goods, when, if half the charge had been laid out here, it
would have secured all that, and this place too, before now. And I think
it is not only true in this, but that the best of the actions of us all
are so silly, that the meanest people begin to see through them, and
contemn them.  Besides, says he, they spoil the river by it. Then informed
ourselves where we might have some creame, and they guided us to one Goody
Best's, a little out of the towne towards London road, and thither we went
with the coach, and find it a mighty clean, plain house, and had a dish of
very good creame to our liking, and so away presently very merry, and fell
to reading of the several Advices to a Painter, which made us good sport,
and indeed are very witty, and Creed did also repeat to me some of the
substance of letters of old Burleigh in Queen Elizabeth's time, which he
hath of late read in the printed Cabbala, which is a very fine style at
this day and fit to be imitated. With this, and talking and laughing at
the folly of our masters in the management of things at this day, we got
home by noon, where all well, and then to dinner, and after dinner both of
us laid down upon the couch and chairs and to sleep, which I did for an
hour or two, and then to the office, where I am sorry to hear that Sir J.
Minnes is likely to die this night, or to-morrow, I forgot to set down
that we met this morning upon the road with Mrs. Williams going down to my
Lord Bruncker; we bowed without speaking one to another, but I am ashamed
at the folly of the man to have her down at this serious busy time, when
the town and country is full of people and full of censure, and against
him particularly.  At Sir W. Batten's my Lady tells me that she hears for
certain that my Lord's maid of his lodging here do give out that Mrs.
Williams hath been fain of late to sell her best clothes and jewels to get
a little money upon, which is a sad condition.  Thence to the office, and
did write to my Lord Bruncker to give me a little satisfaction about the
certainty of the chain's being broke, which I begin to doubt, and the more
from Sir W. Pen's discourse.  It is worth while to read my letter to him
entered in my letter book.  Home in the evening to supper, and so pretty
betimes, about 10 o'clock, to bed, and slept well.  This day letters are
come that my sister is very ill.

2nd.  Up, and put on my new silke camelott suit, made of my cloak, and
suit now made into a vest.  So to the office, where W. Pen and myself, and
Sir T. Harvy met, the first time we have had a meeting since the coming of
the Dutch upon this coast.  Our only business (for we have little else to
do, nobody being willing to trust us for anything) was to speak with the
owners of six merchantmen which we have been taking up this fortnight, and
are yet in no readiness, they not fitting their ships without money
advanced to them, we owing them for what their ships have earned the last
year.  So every thing stands still for money, while we want money to pay
for some of the most necessary things that we promised ready money for in
the height of our wants, as grapnells, &c.  At noon home to dinner, and
after dinner my wife and Jane (mighty fine the girle) to go to see Jane's
old mistress, who was to see her, and did see my wife the other day, and
it is pleasant to hear with what kindness her old mistress speaks of this
girle, and how she would still have her, and how the wench cried when she
told her that she must come to her old mistress my wife.  They gone, I to
my chamber, and there dallied a little with my maid Nell .  .  .  .  and
so to the office where busy till night, and then comes Mrs. Turner, and
walks with me in the garden to talk with me about her husband's business,
and to tell me how she hears at the other end of the town how bad our
office is spoken of by the King and Prince and Duke of Albemarle, and that
there is not a good word said of any of us but of me; and me they all do
speak mightily of, which, whether true or no, I am mighty glad to hear,
but from all put together that I hear from other people, I am likely to
pass as well as anybody.  So, she gone, comes my wife and to walk in the
garden, Sir J. Minnes being still ill and so keeping us from singing, and
by and by Sir W. Pen come and walked with us and gave us a bottle of
Syder, and so we home to supper and to bed.  This day I am told that poor
Tooker is dead, a very painfull poor man as ever I knew.

3rd.  Up, and within most of the morning, my tailor's boy coming to alter
something in my new suit I put on yesterday.  Then to the office and did
business, and then (my wife being a little ill of those in bed) I to Sir
W. Batten's and dined, and there comes in Sir Richard Ford, tells us how
he hath been at the Sessions-house, and there it is plain that there is a
combination of rogues in the town, that do make it their business to set
houses on fire, and that one house they did set on fire in Aldersgate
Streete last Easter; and that this is proved by two young men, whom one of
them debauched by degrees to steal their fathers' plate and clothes, and
at last to be of their company; and they had their places to take up what
goods were flung into the streets out of the windows, when the houses were
on fire; and this is like to be proved to a great number of rogues,
whereof five are already found, and some found guilty this day. One of
these boys is the son of a Montagu, of my Lord Manchester's family; but
whose son he could not tell me.  This is a strange thing methinks, but I
am glad that it is proved so true and discovered.  So home, and to enter
my Journall of my late journey to this hour, and then to the office, where
to do a little business, and then by water to White Hall (calling at
Michell's in my way, but the rogue would not invite me in, I having a mind
para voir his wife), and there to the Council-chamber, to deliver a letter
to their Lordships about the state of the six merchantmen which we have
been so long fitting out.  When I come, the King and the whole table full
of Lords were hearing of a pitifull cause of a complaint of an old man,
with a great grey beard, against his son, for not allowing him something
to live on; and at last come to the ordering the son to allow his father
L10 a year.  This cause lasted them near two hours; which, methinks, at
this time to be the work of the Council-board of England, is a scandalous
thing, and methought Sir W. Coventry to me did own as much.  Here I find
all the newes is the enemy's landing 3,000 men near Harwich,

     [Richard Browne, writing to Williamson from Aldeburgh, on July 2nd,
     says: "The Dutch fleet of 80 sail has anchored in the bay; they were
     expected to land, but they tacked about, and stood first northward
     and then southward, close by Orford lighthouse, and have now passed
     the Ness towards Harwich; they have fired no guns, but made false
     fires" ("Calendar of State Papers," 1667, p. 258).]

and attacking Landguard Fort, and being beat off thence with our great
guns, killing some of their men, and they leaving their ladders behind
them; but we had no Horse in the way on Suffolk side, otherwise we might
have galled their Foot.  The Duke of York is gone down thither this day,
while the General sat sleeping this afternoon at the Council-table.  The
news so much talked of this Exchange, of a peace, I find by Sir Richard
Browne arises from a letter the Swedes' agent hath received from Bredah
and shewed at Court to-day, that they are come very near it, but I do not
find anybody here relying upon it.  This cause being over, the Trinity
House men, whom I did not expect to meet, were called in, and there Sir W.
Pen made a formal speech in answer to a question of the King's, whether
the lying of the sunk ships in the river would spoil the river. But, Lord!
how gingerly he answered it, and with a deal of do that he did not know
whether it would be safe as to the enemy to have them taken up, but that
doubtless it would be better for the river to have them taken up.
A systolic pressure much over 200 probably never goes down to normal,
and if such a high systolic pressure goes down to below 170, we should
consider the treatment successful.

Every active treatment of hypertension should begin with a thorough
cleaning out of the intestinal canal by purgation, best with mercury in
some form. Then the diet should be modified to meet the individual
case and the person's activity. If the blood pressure is dangerously high,
he should receive but little nourishment, best in the form of cereals
and skimmed milk.

On the other hand, if he has edema or dropsy, or if the heart showed signs
of weakness, large amounts of liquids should certainly not be given, and
in such cases it is better that he receive small quantities of milk if
that agrees, rather than large quantities of skimmed milk. The amount of
water should also be fitted to the circulatory ability and the condition
of the kidneys.

When more or less active treatment does not soon lower the hypertension,
and especially a high diastolic pressure, the prognosis is bad. In a patient
who is in more or less immediate danger from his hypertension, the food
and liquid taken, the care of the bowels, and the measures used to cause
secretions from the skin must all be governed by the condition of his
other organs. There is no excuse for excessive, strenuous measures when the
heart is failing or when the kidneys are becoming progressively
insufficient.
Strenuosity in treatment is as objectionable in these cases as is neglect
of treatment in earlier stages of the trouble.

Bie [Footnote: Bie: Ugesk. f.

Laeger, March 4, 1915.] believes there is no direct connection between the
blood pressure and the anatomic condition in the kidneys, although abnormal
conditions in the two are almost invariably found parallel.

A patient with simple hypertension and otherwise well, which means that
his diastolic pressure is at least no higher than 110, should have his
diet, tobacco, coffee and tea regulated; should have recreation periods
one or more times a week, and vacations not too infrequently; should take
some brisk purgative once or twice a week, and may receive one or other of
the physical treatments for the reduction of blood pressure, whether
Turkish baths or electric light baths. If he does not sleep well, there
is no hypnotic drug so valuable in his case as chloral. This should not
be long given, but it will produce the purest kind of sleep and lowers the
blood pressure.

If any other drug is needed, nitroglycerin is the best. If arteriosclerosis
is present, sodium iodid in small doses, 3 grains two or three times a
day, is valuable. Larger doses of sodium iodid are not needed, unless it
is advisable to give such doses for a short period. The value of
iodid in these cases is best obtained by small doses long continued.
If the patient is obese, shall doses of thyroid extract long continued
are of value, such as 2 or 3 grains once a day. If the thyroid extract
causes the heart to become more rapid, it should be discontinued.

Whether the diet should be meat protein free, or whether meat may be
allowed once a day, depends entirely on the individual and on his physical
activities. It is frequently a mistake to take all meat out of his
diet.

When there is obesity, the bulk of the food should be greatly diminished,
and anything that tends to stimulate the patient's appetite should be
withheld. This means all condiments, and at times even salt. Sugar
should be greatly reduced, and starches greatly reduced, but he must
have some. In other words, he should not be cut down to a diabetic diet.
No more liquid should be taken with the meals than is essential to swallow
the food. Water should be taken between meals. There is no question that
almost every one today should have a very light breakfast, except perhaps
those who labor hard physically and are exposed for hours, daily, to the
inclemencies of the weather. Such patients probably need more food.

It is also well, in hypertension cases, to have one day a week in which
a very minimum amount of food is taken, whether that be milk, or skimmed
milk, or a small amount of carbohydrate, without protein food.

If the foregoing management does not reduce hypertension, the kidneys are
generally beginning to become involved in the sclerotic degeneration, whether
the urine shows such a condition or not. On the other hand, there are
exceptions to this rule.

As indican in the urine gives evidence of putrefactive changes in the
intestines and the probability of the absorption of toxins from the intestines,
although we have no real proof that these toxins are the direct cause of
hypertension, our patient is undoubtedly physically better, and will have
less arterial tension when this intestinal condition is removed.
Therefore, our treatment of the individual is not a success as long as
such fermentation and putrefaction persist. If such putrefaction
cannot be removed by diet and laxatives and mental rest and the prevention
of physical strenuosity, radical changes in diet are advisable, although
it may not be necessary to continue such a diet more than a few days at a
time. A rigid milk diet for a few days may change the flora of the
intestine completely; then a vegetable diet may be given, with return
to a mixed diet; or the various lactic acid bacilli may be given, or one
of the various fermented milks may be the diet, the object being
to change the flora in the intestine and thus modify the ferments.
So-called bowel antiseptics, such as salol, for a short time may be of
advantage. Colon washings may be of great advantage. Liquid petroleum may
be advantageous.

Besides preventing the absorption of toxins from the intestine, we must
prevent such absorption from any latent infection. The most frequent kind
of such infection is pyorrhea alveolaris.

A simple method that sometimes is an efficient aid in lowering the
blood pressure is complete muscular and mental relaxation. The patient
lies down for a while in the middle of the day and relaxes every muscle
of his body. With this he may take slow breathing exercises. He should
be in a dark room, quiet if possible, and alone, and should teach his
brain to be for a short time mentally inert.

The physical methods of lowering the blood pressure are hydrotherapeutic,
whether by warm baths or more strenuously by Turkish baths, by hot
air baths (body baking) which is occasionally very efficient, or,
perhaps more now in vogue, by electric light baths.

The duration of these baths, and the frequency, must be determined by the
results. If the heart is made rapid, and the heart muscle shows signs of
weakness, the duration of these baths must not be long, and they may be
contraindicated. These baths are most efficient in lowering the blood
pressure when the patient reclines for several hours after the bath. The
amount of sweating that is advisable in these cases depends on the
condition of the heart. If the heart muscle is insufficient, profuse sweating
is inadvisable.
Also if the kidneys are insufficient, profuse sweating is inadvisable as
tending to concentrate the toxins in the blood. On the other hand, when
the surface of the body tends to be cool, and there are internal congestions,
the value of these baths is very great. Sometimes the electric light baths
increase the tension instead of diminishing it, and when properly used
they may be of benefit in some cases of hypotension. The frequency of the
baths and the question of how many weeks they should be intermittently
continued, depend on the individual case. After a course of such treatment
sometimes patients have a diminished systolic blood pressure not only
for weeks, but even for months, provided they do not break the
rules laid down for them.

The Nauheim baths, while stated not to raise the blood pressure, are not
much advocated in hypertension, and Brown [Footnote: Brown:
California State Jour. Med., November, 1907, p. 279.] who made more than
500 observations of patients of all ages, found that the full strength
Nauheim bath would raise the blood pressure in all feverish and circulatory
conditions. He also found that a fifteen minute sodium chlorid bath, 7
pounds to 40 gallons, at a temperature of from 94 to 98 degrees F.,
lowered the pressure from 10 to 15 mm.
This is not different from the effect obtained from a fifteen minute warm
bath at from 94 to 98 degrees F., or a fifteen minute mustard bath of the
same temperature. In other words, the slight irritation of mustard or of
salt in a warm bath made no special difference in the amount of lowering
of the blood pressure. On the other hand, he found that a fifteen minute
calcium chlorid bath, 1 1/2 pounds to 40 gallons, at 94 degrees F.,
raised the blood pressure 15 mm.

The autocondensation treatment to lower the blood pressure is not so
satisfactory as it was hoped to be. The blood pressure can thus be lowered,
but it soon again rises, and probably generally more rapidly than after
the bath treatments, and in some persons it causes considerable depression.
Van Rennselaer [Footnote: Van Rensselaer: Month. Cycl. and Med. Bull.,
November, 1912, p. 643.] has reviewed this subject of high frequency
treatment, and recalls the fact that Nicola Tesla demonstrated, in 1891,
the form of electricity which we now term high frequency. High frequency
means more than 10,000 cycles per second, at which frequency muscles
do not contract and pain is not felt, whereas in medicine the frequency
of the currents used runs up into the hundreds of thousands, or even into
the millions. The French investigator, d'Arsonval, studied the physiologic
action of these high frequency currents and found that the respiration
and heart are made more rapid and the blood pressure is reduced, while the
intake of oxygen is increased and the carbon dioxid excretion is increased.
The temperature may rise. The excretion of the urinary solids is mostly
increased. Perspiration may be caused, and he believes the glandular
activities are increased. In a word, metabolic changes in the body are made
more active and the blood pressure is lowered.

Besides the effect of altitude on blood pressure, as previously declared,
patients with dangerously high blood pressure should, if possible, not
be subjected to intense cold. In other words, a person with hyper-tension,
if financially able, should not remain in a cold climate during the winter.
On the other hand, even if he is stout and feels sufficiently warm with
light clothing during the winter, his skin becoming chilled adds to his
tension. Therefore he should be clothed as warmly as he will
tolerate.

After a period which may be termed the normal period of hypertension in
normal life, as age advances the systolic tension may lower, provided there
is no kidney lesion.

This is due to the slowly developing chronic myocarditis and a lessening of
the tension and therefore lessening of the resistance to the heart. This
may be nature's method of lengthening the life of the individual. In
other words, as the arteries grow older the force of the heart slightly
lessens, the blood pressure lowers, and the individual is safer.
This frequently occurs in otherwise perfectly normal individuals, without
treatment.

When the blood pressure is suddenly excessively high from any cause,
venesection may be life saving, and should perhaps be more frequently done
than it is. It may save a heart that is in agony from tension, and may
prevent an apoplexy. It is of little value except temporarily in uremic
conditions, but at other times it may, at the time, save life and allow
other methods of reducing the dangerous tension to become effective.
A chronic high tension patient may be repeatedly bled, although
such treatment will not long save life, as the blood pressure in many such
cases soon returns to its previous height.

Some very high tension cases, especially in women at the menopause, and
where there is no kidney involvement, have the blood pressure reduced
successfully only by large doses of thyroid, sometimes well combined
with bromids, especially if the thyroid causes excitation.
Such treatment persisted in for a time may cause months of improvement,
and even years.

DRUGS IN HYPERTENSION
The drugs that are mostly used to lower blood pressure are nitrites or
drugs which are like nitrites, and these are nitroglycerin, sodium nitrite,
erythroltetra nitrate and amyl nitrite, and the frequency of their use
is in the order named. Other drugs used to lower blood pressure are iodids,
thyroid, alkalies, chloral, bromids and aconite, the latter rarely.

Amyl nitrite is required only when a sudden immediate effect is desired in
angina pectoris or in some other serious spasmodic condition. Sodium
nitrite is more likely to upset the stomach than is nitroglycerin.

It acts, however, a little longer, but not enough to warrant its
frequent selection. The dose of sodium nitrite is from 0.03 to 0.06
gm. (1/2 grain to a grain), best in tablet form and given with plenty of
water. The tablet should of course be dissolved or crushed with the
teeth. It should not be given on an empty stomach, as it may cause considerable
irritation and pain. It more or less actively lowers the blood pressure
for about an hour.

Erythrol tetranitrate is preferred by some clinicians who find that
its effect lasts somewhat longer. There is probably, however, no
better nitrite or nitrate than nitroglycerin. While it acts but a
short time, it acts effectively, and although no nitrite has vasodilating
effects for any length of time from one dose, when the doses are given
repeatedly and for days at a time, the blood pressure will generally be
more or less reduced. The dose is from 1/500 to 1/100 grain, three or four
times a day, or every three hours, as desired. The best form in which
to use it is in a very soluble tablet, and the tablet should not be dissolved
unless intense immediate action is desired. It acts when absorbed from the
tongue almost as rapidly as when given hypodermically; it acts in two or
three minutes, and the blood pressure may drop from 20 to 30 mm. In
experimental tests the action does not last more than from fifteen
minutes to half an hour, but clinically the effect of repeated doses
is much more satisfactory. Spirit of glyceryl trinitrate or spirit of
Nitroglycerin, dose 1 minim, keeps well if care is taken to guard against
evaporation of alcohol; tablets if well made and kept in bottles properly
corked, will retain their activity for months.

The closer a physician is to the laboratory, the less he believes in the
value of nitroglycerin in hypertension. The nearer he is to clinical work
the more he believes in it. It is a fact that in some instances, even
with a dose as small as 1/200 grain of nitroglycerin, three or
four times in twenty-four hours, the blood pressure will be lower,
whatever the diet is and whatever the other treatments are, than
if the patient does not take the nitroglycerin.

Also the value of these short relaxation periods from the standpoint of
a strained and tired heart should not be underestimated, the same as the
value of a night's rest, or the value of a recreation period of an hour or
two. If a patient has hypotension and a systolic pressure of 110, and
is given nitroglycerin, the very unpleasant results from its administration
will be immediately noticed. Hence nitroglycerin is one of the most valuable
drugs that we possess for the treatment of hypertension, and some patients
are even benefited by as small a dose as l/500 grain. Lawrence [Footnote:
Lawrence, C.
H.: The Effect of Pressure-Lowering Drugs and Therapeutic Measures on Systolic
and Diastolic Pressure in Man, Arch. Int. Med., April, 1912, p. 409.]
found that the fall of diastolic pressure from nitrites was about half
of the fall of systolic pressure. When there is no kidney lesion a very
high systolic pressure falls more under nitroglycerin than does a
medium high systolic pressure.
Alkalies, whether potassium or sodium citrate or sodium bicarbonate,
are often of advantage in so changing and aiding metabolism, or
perhaps reducing the irritation from hyperacidity or a mild condition
of acidosis, that their administration causes a lowering of blood
pressure.
While iodids may not be direct vasodilators and do not render the
blood more aplastic or diminish its viscosity, as shown by Capps
[Footnote: Capps, J. A.: Effect of Iodids on the Circulation and
Blood Vessels in Arteriosclerosis, THE JOURNAL A. M. A., Oct. 12,
1912. p. 1350.] still, iodids in small doses, 0.1 to 0.2 gm. (1-1/2
to 3 grains) given from once to three times a day, after meals
(these small doses do not disturb the stomach), will stimulate the
thyroid gland to greater activity, and when this gland secretes
properly, the blood pressure is somewhat lowered. Of course, in
syphilitic sclerosis large doses of iodids are indicated and are
valuable.
In obese patients with hypertension, in the hypertension of women
at the menopause, and in hypertension with insufficient kidneys,
thyroid medication is often of great value. Sometimes a small dose
of from 0.1 to 0.2 gm. (1 1/12 to 3 grains) once a day is all that
is needed. At other times, especially when there is no marked
arteriosclerosis and no marked kidney or liver lesion, very high
blood pressures are reduced only by very large doses, even as much
as 10 grains a day. Such treatment is often of very great benefit.
Of course, if one of the persons under consideration has symptoms
of hyperthyroidism, or if small doses of thyroid cause palpitation,
the treatment is not indicated, on the one hand, and should be
stopped, on the other. Sometimes when the blood pressure cannot be
reduced, in these cases without apparent organic lesions, and thyroid
treatment is more or less successful, but at the same time causes
great excitation, it may be combined with bromid medication, and
then the benefit is sometimes very great.
A patient who cannot sleep and who has hypertension may receive
bromids if he is very irritable or if there are symptoms of thyroid
irritability; but the most successful sleep and lowering of blood
pressure is caused by chloral. A dose of 0.5 gm. (7 1/2 grains) at
night is generally sufficient and need not be long continued.
Chloral has been frequently given to reduce pressure in 0.2 to 0.25
gm. (3 or 4 grain) doses, three times a day, after meals.
Bromids, of course, will lower the blood pressure, but they depress
all metabolism, interfere with digestion, and are not advisable for
any length of time.At noon home to dinner and to play on
the flageolet with my wife, and then to the office, where very busy close
at my office till late at night.  At night walked and sang with my wife in
the garden, and so home to supper and to bed.  This evening news comes for
certain that the Dutch are with their fleete before Dover, and that it is
expected they will attempt something there.  The business of the peace is
quite dashed again, so as now it is doubtful whether the King will
condescend to what the Dutch demand, it being so near the Parliament, it
being a thing that will, it may be, recommend him to them when they shall
find that the not having of a peace lies on his side by denying some of
their demands.  This morning Captain Clerke (Robin Clerke) was at the
table, now commands the Monmouth, and did when the enemy passed the chaine
at Chatham the other day, who said publickly at the table that he did
admire at the order when it was brought him for sinking of the Monmouth
(to the endangering of the ship, and spoiling of all her provisions) when
her number of men were upon her that he could have carried her up the
River whither he pleased, and have-been a guard to the rest, and could
have sunk her at any time.  He did carry some 100 barrels of powder out of
the ship to save it after the orders come for the sinking her.  He knew no
reason at all, he declares, that could lead them to order the sinking her,
nor the rest of the great ships that were sunk, but above all admires they
would burn them on shore and sink them there, when it had been better to
have sunk them long way in the middle of the River, for then they would
not have burned them so low as now they did.

10th.  Up, and to the office betimes, and there all the morning very busy
causing papers to be entered and sorted to put the office in order against
the Parliament.  At noon home to dinner, and then to the office again
close all the afternoon upon the same occasion with great pleasure till
late, and then with my wife and Mercer in the garden and sung, and then
home and sung, and to supper with great content, and so to bed.  The Duke
of York is come back last night from Harwich, the news he brings I know
not, nor hear anything to-day from Dover, whether the enemy have made any
attempt there as was expected.  This day our girle Mary, whom Payne helped
us to, to be under his daughter, when she come to be our cook-mayde, did
go away declaring that she must be where she might earn something one day,
and spend it and play away the next.  But a good civil wench, and one
neither wife nor I did ever give angry word to, but she has this silly
vanity that she must play.

11th.  Up betimes and to my office, and there busy till the office (which
was only Sir T. Harvy and myself) met, and did little business and then
broke up.  He tells me that the Council last night did sit close to
determine of the King's answer about the peace, and that though he do not
certainly know, yet by all discourse yesterday he do believe it is peace,
and that the King had said it should be peace, and had bidden Alderman
Baclewell to declare [it] upon the 'Change.  It is high time for us to
have peace that the King and Council may get up their credits and have
time to do it, for that indeed is the bottom of all our misery, that
nobody have any so good opinion of the King and his Council and their
advice as to lend money or venture their persons, or estates, or pains
upon people that they know cannot thrive with all that we can do, but
either by their corruption or negligence must be undone.  This indeed is
the very bottom of every man's thought, and the certain ground that we
must be ruined unless the King change his course, or the Parliament come
and alter it.  At noon dined alone with my wife.  All the afternoon close
at the office, very hard at gathering papers and putting things in order
against the Parliament, and at night home with my wife to supper, and then
to bed, in hopes to have all things in my office in good condition in a
little time for any body to examine, which I am sure none else will.

12th.  Up betimes and to my chamber, there doing business, and by and by
comes Greeting and begun a new month with him, and now to learn to set
anything from the notes upon the flageolet, but, Lord! to see how like a
fool he goes about to give me direction would make a man mad.  I then out
and by coach to White Hall and to the Treasury chamber, where did a little
business, and thence to the Exchequer to Burges, about Tangier business,
and so back again, stepping into the Hall a little, and then homeward by
coach, and met at White Hall with Sir H. Cholmly, and so into his coach,
and he with me to the Excise Office, there to do a little business also,
in the way he telling me that undoubtedly the peace is concluded; for he
did stand yesterday where he did hear part of the discourse at the Council
table, and there did hear the King argue for it. Among other things, that
the spirits of the seamen were down, and the forces of our enemies are
grown too great and many for us, and he would not have his subjects
overpressed; for he knew an Englishman would do as much as any man upon
hopeful terms; but where he sees he is overpressed, he despairs soon as
any other; and, besides that, they have already such a load of dejection
upon them, that they will not be in temper a good while again.  He heard
my Lord Chancellor say to the King, "Sir," says he, "the whole world do
complain publickly of treachery, that things have been managed falsely by
some of his great ministers."--"Sir," says he, "I am for your Majesty's
falling into a speedy enquiry into the truth of it, and, where you meet
with it, punish it.  But, at the same time, consider what you have to do,
and make use of your time for having a peace; for more money will not be
given without much trouble, nor is it, I fear, to be had of the people,
nor will a little do it to put us into condition of doing our business."
But Sir H. Cholmly tells me he [the] Chancellors did say the other day at
his table, "Treachery!" says he; "I could wish we could prove there was
anything of that in it; for that would imply some wit and thoughtfulness;
but we are ruined merely by folly and neglect."  And so Sir H. Cholmly
tells me they did all argue for peace, and so he do believe that the King
hath agreed to the three points Mr. Coventry brought over, which I have
mentioned before, and is gone with them back.  He tells me further that
the Duke of Buckingham was before the Council the other day, and there did
carry it very submissively and pleasingly to the King; but to my Lord
Arlington, who do prosecute the business, he was most bitter and sharp,
and very slighting. As to the letter about his employing a man to cast the
King's nativity, says he to the King, "Sir," says he, "this is none of my
hand, and I refer it to your Majesty whether you do not know this hand."
The King answered, that it was indeed none of his, and that he knew whose
it was, but could not recall it presently.  "Why," says he, "it is my
sister of Richmond's, some frolick or other of hers of some certain
person; and there is nothing of the King's name in it, but it is only said
to be his by supposition, as is said."  The King, it seems, seemed not
very much displeased with what the Duke had said; but, however, he is
still in the Tower, and no discourse of his being out in haste, though my
Lady Castlemayne hath so far solicited for him that the King and she are
quite fallen out: he comes not to her, nor hath for some three or four
days; and parted with very foul words, the King calling her a whore, and a
jade that meddled with things she had nothing to do with at all: and she
calling him fool; and told him if he was not a fool, he would not suffer
his businesses to be carried on by fellows that did not understand them,
and cause his best subjects, and those best able to serve him, to be
imprisoned; meaning the Duke of Buckingham.  And it seems she was not only
for his liberty, but to be restored to all his places; which, it is
thought, he will never be.  While we were at the Excise office talking
with Mr. Ball, it was computed that the Parliament had given the King for
this war only, besides all prizes, and besides the L200,000 which he was
to spend of his own revenue, to guard the sea above L5,000,000 and odd
L100,000; which is a most prodigious sum.  Sir H. Cholmly, as a true
English gentleman, do decry the King's expenses of his Privy-purse, which
in King James's time did not rise to above L5000 a year, and in King
Charles's to L10,000, do now cost us above L100,000, besides the great
charge of the monarchy, as the Duke of York L100,000 of it, and other
limbs of the Royal family, and the guards, which, for his part, says he,
"I would have all disbanded, for the King is not the better by them, and
would be as safe without them; for we have had no rebellions to make him
fear anything."  But, contrarily, he is now raising of a land-army, which
this Parliament and kingdom will never bear; besides, the commanders they
put over them are such as will never be able to raise or command them; but
the design is, and the Duke of York, he says, is hot for it, to have a
land-army, and so to make the government like that of France, but our
princes have not brains, or at least care and forecast enough to do that.
It is strange how he and every body do now-a-days reflect upon Oliver, and
commend him, what brave things he did, and made all the neighbour princes
fear him; while here a prince, come in with all the love and prayers and
good liking of his people, who have given greater signs of loyalty and
willingness to serve him with their estates than ever was done by any
people, hath lost all so soon, that it is a miracle what way a man could
devise to lose so much in so little time.  Thence he set me down at my
Lord Crew's and away, and I up to my Lord, where Sir Thomas Crew was, and
by and by comes Mr. Caesar, who teaches my Lady's page upon the lute, and
here Mr. Caesar did play some very fine things indeed, to my great liking.
Here was my Lord Hinchingbroke also, newly come from Hinchingbroke, where
all well, but methinks I knowing in what case he stands for money by his
demands to me and the report Mr. Moore gives of the management of the
family, makes me, God forgive me! to contemn him, though I do really
honour and pity them, though they deserve it not, that have so good an
estate and will live beyond it.  To dinner, and very good discourse with
my Lord.  And after dinner Sir Thomas Crew and I alone, and he tells me
how I am mightily in esteem with the Parliament; there being harangues
made in the House to the Speaker, of Mr. Pepys's readiness and civility to
show them every thing, which I am at this time very glad of.  He tells me
the news of the King and my Lady Castlemayne which I have wrote already
this day, and the design of the Parliament to look into things very well
before they give any more money, and I pray God they may.  Thence, after
dinner, to St. James's, but missed Sir W. Coventry, and so home, and there
find my wife in a dogged humour for my not dining at home, and I did give
her a pull by the nose and some ill words, which she provoked me to by
something she spoke, that we fell extraordinarily out, insomuch, that I
going to the office to avoid further anger, she followed me in a devilish
manner thither, and with much ado I got her into the garden out of
hearing, to prevent shame, and so home, and by degrees I found it
necessary to calme her, and did, and then to the office, where pretty
late, and then to walk with her in the garden, and so to supper, and
pretty good friends, and so to bed with my mind very quiet.

13th.  Up pretty betimes, it being mighty hot weather, I lying this night,
which I have not done, I believe, since a boy, I am sure not since I had
the stone before, with only a rugg and a sheet upon me.  To my chamber,
and my wife up to do something, and by chance we fell out again, but I to
the office, and there we did at the board much business, though the most
was the dividing of L5000 which the Lords Commissioners have with great
difficulty found upon our letter to them this week that would have
required L50,000 among a great many occasions.  After rising, my Lord
Anglesey, this being the second time of his being with us, did take me
aside and asked me where I lived, because he would be glad to have some
discourse with me.  This I liked well enough, and told him I would wait
upon him, which I will do, and so all broke up, and I home to dinner,
where Mr. Pierce dined with us, who tells us what troubles me, that my
Lord Buckhurst  hath got Nell away from the King's house, lies with her,
and gives her L100 a year, so as she hath sent her parts to the house, and
will act no more.

     [Lord Buckhurst and Nell Gwyn, with the help of Sir Charles Sedley,
     kept "merry house" at Epsom next door to the King's Head Inn (see
     Cunningham's "Story of Nell Gwyn," ed.  1892, p. 57)]

And yesterday Sir Thomas Crew told me that Lacy lies a-dying of the pox,
and yet hath his whore by him, whom he will have to look on, he says,
though he can do no more; nor would receive any ghostly advice from a
Bishop, an old acquaintance of his, that went to see him. He says there is
a strangeness between the King and my Lady Castlemayne, as I was told
yesterday.  After dinner my wife and I to the New Exchange, to pretty maid
Mrs. Smith's shop, where I left my wife, and I to Sir W. Coventry, and
there had the opportunity of talk with him, who I perceive do not like our
business of the change of the Treasurer's hand, and he tells me that he is
entered the lists with this new Treasurer before the King in taking away
the business of the Victualling money from his hand, and the Regiment, and
declaring that he hath no right to the 3d. per by his patent, for that it
was always heretofore given by particular Privy Seal, and that the King
and Council just upon his coming in had declared L2000 a year sufficient.
This makes him angry, but Sir W. Coventry I perceive cares not, but do
every day hold up his head higher and higher, and this day I have received
an order from the Commissioners of the Treasury to pay no more pensions
for Tangier, which I am glad of, and he tells me they do make bold with
all things of that kind.  Thence I to White Hall, and in the street I
spied Mrs. Borroughs, and took a means to meet and salute her and talk a
little, and then parted, and I home by coach, taking up my wife at the
Exchange, and there I am mightily pleased with this Mrs. Smith, being a
very pleasant woman.  So home, and resolved upon going to Epsum tomorrow,
only for ayre, and got Mrs. Turner to go with us, and so home and to
supper (after having been at the office) and to bed.  It is an odd and sad
thing to say, that though this be a peace worse than we had before, yet
every body's fear almost is, that the Dutch will not stand by their
promise, now the King hath consented to all they would have.  And yet no
wise man that I meet with, when he comes to think of it, but wishes, with
all his heart, a war; but that the King is not a man to be trusted with
the management of it.  It was pleasantly said by a man in this City, a
stranger, to one that told him that the peace was concluded, "Well," says
he, "and have you a peace?"--"Yes," says the other.--"Why, then," says he,
"hold your peace!" partly reproaching us with the disgracefulness of it,
that it is not fit to be mentioned; and next, that we are not able to make
the Dutch keep it, when they have a mind to break it.  Sir Thomas Crew
yesterday, speaking of the King of France, how great a man he is, why,
says he, all the world thought that when the last Pope died, there would
have been such bandying between the Crowns of France and Spain, whereas,
when he was asked what he would have his ministers at Rome do, why, says
he, let them choose who they will; if the Pope will do what is fit, the
Pope and I will be friends.  If he will not, I will take a course with
him: therefore, I will not trouble myself; and thereupon the election was
despatched in a little time--I think in a day, and all ended.

     [Of Clement IX., Giulio Rispogliosi, elected June 20th, 1667, N.S.
     He was succeeded by Clement X. in 1670.]

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and my wife, a little before four, and to make us
ready; and by and by Mrs. Turner come to us, by agreement, and she and I
staid talking below, while my wife dressed herself, which vexed me that
she was so long about it keeping us till past five o'clock before she was
ready.  She ready; and, taking some bottles of wine, and beer, and some
cold fowle with us into the coach, we took coach and four horses, which I
had provided last night, and so away.  A very fine day, and so towards
Epsum, talking all the way pleasantly, and particularly of the pride and
ignorance of Mrs. Lowther, in having of her train carried up?  The country
very fine, only the way very dusty.  We got to Epsum by eight o'clock, to
the well; where much company, and there we 'light, and I drank the water:
they did not, but do go about and walk a little among the women, but I did
drink four pints, and had some very good stools by it.  Here I met with
divers of our town, among others with several of the tradesmen of our
office, but did talk but little with them, it growing hot in the sun, and
so we took coach again and to the towne, to the King's Head, where our
coachman carried us, and there had an ill room for us to go into, but the
best in the house that was not taken up.  Here we called for drink, and
bespoke dinner; and hear that my Lord Buckhurst and Nelly are lodged at
the next house, and Sir Charles Sidly with them and keep a merry house.
Poor girl! I pity her; but more the loss of her at the King's house.  Here
I saw Gilsthrop, Sir W. Batten's clerk that hath been long sick, he looks
like a dying man, with a consumption got, as is believed, by the pox, but
God knows that the man is in a sad condition, though he finds himself much
better since his coming thither, he says. W. Hewer rode with us, and I
left him and the women, and myself walked to church, where few people,
contrary to what I expected, and none I knew, but all the Houblons,
brothers, and them after sermon I did salute, and walk with towards my
inne, which was in their way to their lodgings. They come last night to
see their elder brother, who stays here at the waters, and away to-morrow.
James did tell me that I was the only happy man of the Navy, of whom, he
says, during all this freedom the people have taken of speaking treason,
he hath not heard one bad word of me, which is a great joy to me; for I
hear the same of others, but do know that I have deserved as well as most.
We parted to meet anon, and I to my women into a better room, which the
people of the house borrowed for us, and there to dinner, a good dinner,
and were merry, and Pendleton come to us, who happened to be in the house,
and there talked and were merry.  After dinner, he gone, we all lay down
after dinner (the day being wonderful hot) to sleep, and each of us took a
good nap, and then rose; and Tom Wilson come to see me, and sat and talked
an hour; and I perceive he hath been much acquainted with Dr. Fuller (Tom)
and Dr. Pierson, and several of the great cavalier parsons during the late
troubles; and I was glad to hear him talk of them, which he did very
ingeniously, and very much of Dr. Fuller's art of memory, which he did
tell me several instances of.  By and by he parted, and we took coach and
to take the ayre, there being a fine breeze abroad; and I went and carried
them to the well, and there filled some bottles of water to carry home
with me; and there talked with the two women that farm the well, at L12
per annum, of the lord of the manor, Mr. Evelyn (who with his lady, and
also my Lord George Barkeley's lady, and their fine daughter, that the
King of France liked so well, and did dance so rich in jewells before the
King at the Ball I was at, at our Court, last winter, and also their son,
a Knight of the Bath, were at church this morning).  Here W. Hewer's horse
broke loose, and we had the sport to see him taken again.  Then I carried
them to see my cozen Pepys's house, and 'light, and walked round about it,
and they like it, as indeed it deserves, very well, and is a pretty place;
and then I walked them to the wood hard by, and there got them in the
thickets till they had lost themselves, and I could not find the way into
any of the walks in the wood, which indeed are very pleasant, if I could
have found them.  At last got out of the wood again; and I, by leaping
down the little bank, coming out of the wood, did sprain my right foot,
which brought me great present pain, but presently, with walking, it went
away for the present, and so the women and W. Hewer and I walked upon the
Downes, where a flock of sheep was; and the most pleasant and innocent
sight that ever I saw in my life--we find a shepherd and his little boy
reading, far from any houses or sight of people, the Bible to him; so I
made the boy read to me, which he did, with the forced tone that children
do usually read, that was mighty pretty, and then I did give him
something, and went to the father, and talked with him; and I find he had
been a servant in my cozen Pepys's house, and told me what was become of
their old servants.  He did content himself mightily in my liking his
boy's reading, and did bless God for him, the most like one of the old
patriarchs that ever I saw in my life, and it brought those thoughts of
the old age of the world in my mind for two or three days after.  We took
notice of his woolen knit stockings of two colours mixed, and of his shoes
shod with iron shoes, both at the toe and heels, and with great nails in
the soles of his feet, which was mighty pretty: and, taking notice of
them, "Why," says the poor man, "the downes, you see, are full of stones,
and we are faine to shoe ourselves thus; and these," says he, "will make
the stones fly till they sing before me."  I did give the poor man
something, for which he was mighty thankful, and I tried to cast stones
with his horne crooke.  He values his dog mightily, that would turn a
sheep any way which he would have him, when he goes to fold them: told me
there was about eighteen scoare sheep in his flock, and that he hath four
shillings a week the year round for keeping of them: so we posted thence
with mighty pleasure in the discourse we had with this poor man, and Mrs.
Turner, in the common fields here, did gather one of the prettiest
nosegays that ever I saw in my life.  So to our coach, and through Mr.
Minnes's wood, and looked upon Mr. Evelyn's house; and so over the common,
and through Epsum towne to our inne, in the way stopping a poor woman with
her milk-pail, and in one of my gilt tumblers did drink our bellyfulls of
milk, better than any creame; and so to our inne, and there had a dish of
creame, but it was sour, and so had no pleasure in it; and so paid our
reckoning, and took coach, it being about seven at night, and passed and
saw the people walking with their wives and children to take the ayre, and
we set out for home, the sun by and by going down, and we in the cool of
the evening all the way with much pleasure home, talking and pleasing
ourselves with the pleasure of this day's work, Mrs. Turner mightily
pleased with my resolution, which, I tell her, is never to keep a
country-house, but to keep a coach, and with my wife on the Saturday to go
sometimes for a day to this place, and then quit to another place; and
there is more variety and as little charge, and no trouble, as there is in
a country-house. Anon it grew dark, and as it grew dark we had the
pleasure to see several glow-wormes, which was mighty pretty, but my foot
begins more and more to pain me, which Mrs. Turner, by keeping her warm
hand upon it, did much ease; but so that when we come home, which was just
at eleven at night, I was not able to walk from the lane's end to my house
without being helped, which did trouble me, and therefore to bed
presently, but, thanks be to God, found that I had not been missed, nor
any business happened in my absence.  So to bed, and there had a cerecloth
laid to my foot and leg alone, but in great pain all night long.

15th.  So as I was not able to go to-day to wait on the Duke of York with
my fellows, but was forced in bed to write the particulars for their
discourse there, and kept my bed all day, and anon comes Mrs. Turner, and
new-dressed my foot, and did it so, that I was at much ease presently, and
so continued all day, so as I slept much and well in the daytime, and in
the evening rose and eat something, where our poor Jane very sad for the
death of her poor brother, who hath left a wife and two small children.  I
did give her 20s. in money, and what wine she needed, for the burying him.
This evening come to see me Pelling, and we did sing together, and he
sings well indeed, and after supper I was willing to go to bed to ease my
foot again, which I did, and slept well all night.

16th.  In the morning I was able to put on a wide shoe on the foot, and to
the office without much pain, and there sat all the morning.  At noon home
to dinner, where Creed to discourse of our Tangier business, which stands
very bad in the business of money, and therefore we expect to have a
committee called soon, and to acquaint them among other things with the
order come to me for the not paying of any more pensions.  We dined
together, and after dinner I to the office, and there very late, very
busy, doing much business indeed, and so with great comfort home to
supper, and so to bed to ease my foot, which toward night began to ake.

17th.  Up, and to my chamber to set down my Journall of Sunday last with
much pleasure, and my foot being pretty well, but yet I am forced to limp.
Then by coach, set my wife down at the New Exchange, and I to White Hall
to the Treasury chamber, but to little purpose.  So to Mr. Burges to as
little.  There to the Hall and talked with Mrs. Michell, who begins to
tire me about doing something for her elder son, which I am willing to do,
but know not what.  Thence to White Hall again, and thence away, and took
up my wife at Unthanke's, and left her at the 'Change, and so I to
Bennet's to take up a bill for the last silk I had for my vest and coat,
which I owe them for, and so to the Excise Office, and there did a little
business, and so to Temple Bar and staid at my bookseller's till my wife
calls me, and so home, where I am saluted with the news of Hogg's bringing
a rich Canary prize to Hull:

     [Thomas Pointer to Samuel Pepys (Hull, July 15th): "Capt. Hogg has
     brought in a great prize laden with Canary wine; also Capt. Reeves
     of the 'Panther,' and the 'Fanfan,' whose commander is slain, have
     come in with their prizes" ("Calendar of State Papers," 1667,
     p. 298).]

and Sir W. Batten do offer me L1000 down for my particular share, beside
Sir Richard Ford's part, which do tempt me; but yet I would not take it,
but will stand and fall with the company.  He and two more, the Panther
and Fanfan, did enter into consortship; and so they have all brought in
each a prize, though ours worth as much as both theirs, and more. However,
it will be well worth having, God be thanked for it!  This news makes us
all very glad.  I at Sir W. Batten's did hear the particulars of it; and
there for joy he did give the company that were there a bottle or two of
his own last year's wine, growing at Walthamstow, than which the whole
company said they never drank better foreign wine in their lives. Home,
and to dinner, and by and by comes Mr. Pierce, who is interested in the
Panther, for some advice, and then comes Creed, and he and I spent the
whole afternoon till eight at night walking and talking of sundry things
public and private in the garden, but most of all of the unhappy state of
this nation at this time by the negligence of the King and his Council.
"So you have a brother?"
"Yes, and I wanted to appeal to you very earnestly to take him as a servant
on your farm. You would be doing a very charitable deed, and he would be
sure to serve you faithfully all his life."
"Where is your brother?"
"Down yonder in the woods; just now he is a charcoal-burner."
"Why, we have few trees and no kiln at all. I could more easily
find work for a field-laborer."
"He'd be able to do that work, too. But here is the house."
"I'll wait until you come out," said John. Barefoot went in to put down the
water, and arrange the fire, and make Marianne comfortable in bed.

When she came out John was still standing there and the dog jumped up at
her. For a long time they stood under the parental tree, which
rustled quietly and bowed its branches. They talked of all kinds of things;
John praised her cleverness and her quick mind, and at last said:

"If you should ever want to change your place, you would be the very
person for my mother."
"That is the greatest praise that anybody in the world could give me!"
Barefoot declared. "I still have a keepsake from your mother." And then she
related the incident of their meeting his mother, and both laughed when
Barefoot told how Damie could not forget that Dame Landfried owed him a
pair of leather-breeches.

"And he shall have them," John declared.

They then walked back together as far as the village, and John gave her his
hand when he bade her "Good night." Barefoot wanted to tell him that he
had shaken hands with her once before, but, as if frightened by
the thought, she fled away from him and ran into the house; she did
not even return his "Good night."

     John, puzzled and thoughtful, returned to his room at the "Heathcock."
     

The next morning Barefoot found that the swelling in her face had vanished
as if by magic. And never had she caroled more gaily through the house and
yard, through the stable and barn, than she did today. And yet today
was the day when it was to be decided, the day that John was to declare
himself.

     Farmer Rodel did not want to have his sister talked about by any
     one, in case it should all come to nothing after all.
     
     Nearly the whole day John sat in the room with Rose, who was making
a man's shirt.

Toward evening Mistress Rodel's parents came, along with other relatives.
It must be decided one way or the other today.

The roast was sputtering in the kitchen, the pine wood cracking and
snapping, and Barefoot's cheeks were glowing, heated by the fire on the
hearth and the fire that was burning within her. Crappy Zachy walked back
and forth and up and down with an air of great importance, and
made himself very much at home--he even smoked Farmer Rodel's pipe.

"Then it is settled after all," said Barefoot to herself, mournfully.

Night had come. Many lights were burning in the house, and Rose, in
festive attire, was hurrying back and forth between the room and the
kitchen, though she did not know how to give any help. Everything was
ready.

And now the young farmer's wife said to Barefoot:

"Go upstairs and put on your Sunday dress."
"Why?"
"You must wait on the table today, and you'll get a better present."
"I would rather stay in the kitchen."
"No, do as I tell you--and make haste."
Amrei went up to her room and sat down for a moment on her box in order
to get her breath. She was dead tired. If she could only go to sleep now
and never wake up again! But duty called. Hardly had she taken the first
piece of her Sunday dress in her hand, when a feeling of joy came over
her; and the evening sun, sending a red beam into the little attic,
shone upon a pair of glowing cheeks.

"Put on your Sunday dress!" She had but one Sunday dress, and that was the
one she had worn that day at the wedding in Endringen. Every flutter, every
rustle of the dress reminded her of the happiness she had experienced,
and of the waltz she had danced on that eventful day. But as darkness
followed the setting of the sun, so did sorrow follow gladness;
and she said to herself that she was thus adorning herself only to do honor
to John, and to show how much she valued whatever came from his family,
she at last put on the necklace.

Thus, adorned as she had been on the day of the wedding at Endringen, Amrei
came down from her room.

"What is this? What did you dress yourself up like that for?" cried Rose
angrily. She was already anxious and impatient because the visitor was
so long in making his appearance. "Why do you put all your possessions
on? Is that a fit necklace for a servant, with a coin hanging to it? You
take that off directly!"

"No, I shall not do that; for his mother gave it to me when I was a little
child, and I had it on when we danced together at Endringen."
Something was heard to fall on the staircase; but nobody heeded it, for
Rose screamed out:

"What! You good-for-nothing, horrible witch! You would have perished in
rags if we had not taken you up! And now you want to take my betrothed
from me!"
"Don't call him that until he is your betrothed," replied Amrei, with a
strange mixture of feelings in her voice.

"Wait! I'll show you what you've got to do!" shrieked Rose.

"Take that!" and she dragged Barefoot down to the ground and struck her
in the face.

"I'll take my things off! Let me go!" screamed Barefoot.

But Rose let go before she had finished saying it; for, as if he had
risen out of the ground, John was standing before her! He was as pale as
death, and his lips were quivering. He could not speak, but merely raised
his hand to protect Barefoot, who was still kneeling on the
floor.

Barefoot was the first to speak; she cried out:

     "Believe me, John, I have never seen her like that before, never
     in my whole life! And it was my fault."
     "Yes, it was your fault. And, now, come; you shall go with me and
     be mine. Will you? I have found you, and I did not seek you. But
     now you shall live with me and be my wife.

It is God's will."
If any one could have seen Barefoot's eyes then!

But no mortal eye has ever fully seen a flash of lightning in the
heavens, for no matter how firmly we look, our eyes are sure to be
dazzled. And there are also flashes in the human eye which are never fully
seen, just as there are workings in the human heart which are never fully
understood. A momentary flash of joy, such as may brighten the face
when the heavens are opened, darted from Amrei's eyes. She covered her face
with both hands, and the tears ran forth from between her fingers.

John stood with his hand upon her. All the relatives had gathered around,
and were gazing with astonishment at the strange scene.

"What's all this with Barefoot? What's all this?" blustered Farmer
Rodel.

"So, your name is Barefoot?" cried John. He laughed loud and heartily, and
added: "Come, now, will you have me? Say so now, for here we have
witnesses to confirm it. Say 'Yes,' and nothing but death shall part us!"

"Yes!--and nothing but death shall part us!" cried Barefoot, throwing herself
on his neck.

"Very well--then take her out of this house at once!" roared Farmer Rodel,
foaming with rage.

"Yes, you need not tell me to do that. I thank you for your good
reception, cousin. When you come to us some day, we'll make it quits,"
replied John. He put both hands up to his head, and cried: "Good
heavens! Mother, mother, how glad you will be!"
"Go up, Barefoot, and take your box away at once; for nothing belonging
to you shall remain in my house!" commanded Farmer Rodel.

"Very well," replied John; "but that can be done with less noise. Come,
Barefoot, I'll go with you. But tell me what your real name is."
"Amrei."
"I was once to have married an Amrei--she is the 'Butter Countess!'--you
are my Salt Countess! Hurrah! Now come; I should like to see your room,
where you have lived so long. Now you shall have a large house!"
The dog, with the hairs on his back standing up like bristles, kept walking
around Farmer Rodel; he saw that the latter would have been glad to choke
John. Only when John and Barefoot were at the top of the stairs did the
dog come running after them.

John let the box stand, because he could not take it on his horse. But they
packed Barefoot's possessions into the sack which she had inherited from
her father.

As they were descending the stairs together on their way out, Barefoot
felt somebody quietly press her hand in the dark--it was her mistress who
was thus taking leave of her. At the threshold, with her hand upon
the door-post against which she had so often leaned, she said sadly:

"May God reward this house for all good, and forgive it for all evil!"
They had gone but a few paces when Barefoot called out: "Good heavens! I
have forgotten all my shoes! They are upstairs on the shelf!"
Scarcely had she spoken the words, when the shoes, as if they were running
after their owner, came flying out of the window and down into the
street.

"Run to the devil in them!" cried a voice from the garret window. The
voice sounded masculine, and yet it belonged to Rose.

Barefoot collected the shoes and took them to the tavern with John, who
carried the sack on his back.

The moon was shining brightly, and the whole village was already
asleep.

Barefoot would not stay at the tavern.

"Then I should like to go home this very night," said John.

"Before I do anything else," replied Barefoot, "I must go to Black Marianne.
She has filled a mother's place for me, and I have not seen her today,
and have not been able to do anything for her. And besides that, she's
ill. Alas! It is too bad that I shall have to leave her; but what am I to
do? Come, go with me to her."
They went together to the house. When Barefoot opened the inside door a
moonbeam fell upon the angel on the stove, just as a sunbeam had fallen
on that day of long ago. And it seemed to smile and dance more
merrily.

     
     Barefoot cried with a loud voice:
     
     "Marianne! Marianne! Wake up, Marianne! Happiness and blessing are
     here!
     Wake up!"

The old woman sat up in bed; the moonlight fell upon her face and
neck.
She opened her eyes wide and said:

"What is it? What is it? Who calls?"
"Rejoice! Here I bring you my John!"
"My John!" screamed the old woman, "Good God, my John! How long--how long--I
have thee--I have thee! Oh God, I thank thee a thousand and a thousand
times! Oh, my child, my boy! I see thee with a thousand eyes, and a
thousandfold--No, there--there--thy hand!

Come here--there--there in the chest is thy dowry! Take the cloth! My son!
my boy! Yes, yes, she is thine! John, my son, my son! my--"
The old woman laughed convulsively, and fell back in her bed. Amrei and
John had knelt down beside her, and when they stood up and bent over her,
she had ceased to breathe.

"Oh, heavens! She is dead! Joy killed her!" exclaimed Barefoot. "She took
you for her son. She died happy. Oh, why is it thus in the world,
why is it thus?" She sank down by the bed again, and sobbed bitterly.

At last John raised her up, and Barefoot closed the dead woman's eyes.

For a long time they stood together beside the bed; then Barefoot
said:

"Come, I will wake up people who will watch by her body. God has been very
gracious; she would have no one to care for her when I was gone.
And God has given her the greatest joy in the last moment of her life.
How long, oh, how long, she waited for that joy!"
"Yes, but you cannot stay here now," said John. "You must go with me this
very night."
Barefoot woke up the gravedigger's wife, and sent her to Black Marianne.
Her mind was so wonderfully composed that she remembered to tell the woman
that the flowers, which stood on her window-ledge at the farm,
were to be planted on Black Marianne's grave; and especially that she
was not to forget to put Black Marianne's hymn-book under her head, as
she had always wished.

When at last she had arranged everything, she stood up erect and, stretching
out her arms, said:

"Now everything is done. You must forgive me, good man, that I was obliged
to bring you to a house of sorrow; and forgive me, too, if I am
not now as I should wish to be. I see now that all is well, and
that God has ordered it for the best. But still I shake with fear
in every limb--it is a hard thing to die. You cannot imagine how I
have almost puzzled my brains out about it. But now all is well,
and I will be cheerful--for I am the happiest girl in the world!"

"Yes, you are right.--But come, let us go. Will you ride with me
on my horse?" asked John.
"Yes. Is it the white horse that you had at the wedding at Endringen?"
"To be sure!"
"And, oh, that Farmer Rodel! If he didn't send to Lauterbach the
night before you came and have a white horse brought from there,
so as to get you to come to his house. Holloa! white horse, go home
again!" she concluded, almost merrily.
And thus their thoughts and feelings returned to ordinary life, and
from it they learned to appreciate their happiness anew.
CHAPTER XVI 
SILVERSTEP
[The two lovers mount the white horse, which Amrei suggests they
call "Silverstep," and start out through the moonlight for John's
home. As they ride along they talk and sing and tell stories and
enjoy themselves as only lovers can. At Amrei's request, they stop
on the way to see Damie, who is with Coaly Mathew in the forest;
Amrei tells him all that has happened, and John promises to make
him an independent herdsman, and gives him a silver-mounted pipe.
Damie, inwardly rejoiced, but, as usual, not over-appreciative,
reminds him of the "pair of leather breeches," a debt which John
also promises to pay. Damie then displays unexpected cleverness by
performing a mock-ceremony, in which he compels John to ask him,
as his sister's only living relative, for Amrei's hand.
Damie surprises his sister by doing this with considerable histrionic
success, so that the two lovers start out again more merry than
ever.] 

CHAPTER XVII 
OVER HILL AND VALE
The day had dawned when the two lovers reached the town; and already
long before, when they encountered the first early-riser, they had
alighted. They felt that they must have a strange appearance, and
regarded this first person they met as a herald who had come to
remind them of the fact that they must adapt themselves to the order
of human conventionalities. So they dismounted, and John led the
horse with one hand and held Amrei with the other. Thus they went
on in silence, and as often as they looked at each other, their
faces shone like those of children newly waked from sleep; but as
often as they looked down, they became thoughtful and anxious about
the immediate future.
Amrei, as if she had already been discussing the subject with John,
and in complete confidence that his mind must have been dwelling
on the same thoughts, now said:
"To be sure, it would have been more sensible if we had done the
thing in a more normal way. You should have gone home first, and
meanwhile I should have stayed somewhere--at Coaly Mathew's in the
forest, if we could have done no better. Then you could have come
with your mother to fetch me, or could have written to me, and I
could have come to you with my Damie. But do you know what I think?"
"Not everything you think."
"I think that regret is the most stupid feeling one can possibly
cherish. Do what you will, you cannot make yesterday into today.
What we did, in the midst of our rejoicing, that was right, and
must remain right. Now that our minds have been become more sober
again, we can't waste any time reproving ourselves. What we have
to think of now is, how shall we do everything right in the future?
But you are such a right-minded man that you will know what is
right. And you can tell me everything you think, only tell me
honestly; if you say what you mean, you won't hurt me, but if you
keep anything back from me, you will hurt me. But you don't regret
it, do you?" 
"Can you answer a riddle?" asked John.
"Yes, as a child I used to be able to do that well."
"Then tell me what this is--it is a simple, plain word: Take away
the first letter, and you're ready to tear your hair out; put it
back again, and all is firm and sure?"
"That's easy," said Barefoot, "easy as anything; it's Truth and
Ruth."
At the first inn by the gate they stopped off; and Amrei, when she
and John were alone in the room, and the latter had ordered some
good coffee, said:
"How splendidly the world is arranged! These people have provided
a house, and tables, and benches, and chairs, and a kitchen, in
which the fire is burning, and they have coffee, and milk and sugar,
and fine dishes, and it is all ready for us as if we had ordered
it. And when we go farther on we find more people and more houses,
with all we want in them. It's like it is in the fairy-tale, 'Table,
be covered!'"
"But you have to have the 'Loaf, come out of the bag!' too," said
John, and he reached into his pocket and drew forth a handful of
money.
"Without that you'll get nothing."
"Yes, to be sure," said Amrei; "whoever has those wheels can roll
through the world. But tell me, John--did coffee ever taste to you
in your whole life like this? And the fresh white bread! Only you
have ordered too much; we cannot manage all this. The bread I shall
take with me, but it's a pity about the good coffee. How many poor
people could be refreshed by it, and we must let it go to waste.He do say, that this afternoon
they did force our ships to retreat, but that now they are gone down as
far as Shield-haven: but what the event hath been of this evening's guns
they know not, but suppose not much, for they have all this while shot at
good distance one from another.  They seem confident of the security of
this town and the River above it, if the enemy should come up so high;
their fortifications being so good, and guns many.  But he do say that
people do complain of Sir Edward Spragg, that he hath not done
extraordinary; and more of Sir W. Jenings, that he come up with his
tamkins

     [Tamkin, or tampion, the wooden stopper of a cannon placed in the
     muzzle to exclude water or dust.]

in his guns.  Having discoursed this a little with him, and eat a bit of
cold venison and drank, I away, took boat, and homeward again, with great
pleasure, the moon shining, and it being a fine pleasant cool evening, and
got home by half-past twelve at night, and so to bed.

25th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon home
to dinner, and there sang with much pleasure with my wife, and so to the
office again, and busy all the afternoon.  At night Sir W. Batten, [Sir]
W. Pen, and myself, and Sir R. Ford, did meet in the garden to discourse
about our prizes at Hull.  It appears that Hogg is the eeriest rogue, the
most observable embezzler, that ever was known.  This vexes us, and made
us very free and plain with Sir W. Pen, who hath been his great patron,
and as very a rogue as he.  But he do now seem to own that his opinion is
changed of him, and that he will joyne with us in our strictest inquiries,
and did sign to the letters we had drawn, which he had refused before, and
so seemingly parted good friends, and then I demanded of Sir R. Ford and
the rest, what passed to-day at the meeting of the Parliament: who told me
that, contrary to all expectation by the King that there would be but a
thin meeting, there met above 300 this first day, and all the discontented
party; and, indeed, the whole House seems to be no other almost.  The
Speaker told them, as soon as they were sat, that he was ordered by the
King to let them know he was hindered by some important business to come
to them and speak to them, as he intended; and, therefore, ordered him to
move that they would adjourn themselves till Monday next, it being very
plain to all the House that he expects to hear by that time of the sealing
of the peace, which by letters, it seems, from my Lord Holis, was to be
sealed the last Sunday.

     [The peace was signed on the 31st.  See August 9th.--B.]

But before they would come to the question whether they would adjourn, Sir
Thomas Tomkins steps up and tells them, that all the country is grieved at
this new raised standing army; and that they thought themselves safe
enough in their trayn-bands; and that, therefore, he desired the King
might be moved to disband them.  Then rises Garraway and seconds him, only
with this explanation, which he said he believed the other meant; that, as
soon as peace should be concluded, they might be disbanded.  Then rose Sir
W. Coventry, and told them that he did approve of what the last gentleman
said; but also, that at the same time he did no more than what, he durst
be bold to say, he knew to be the King's mind, that as soon as peace was
concluded he would do it of himself. Then rose Sir Thomas Littleton, and
did give several reasons for the uncertainty of their meeting again but to
adjourne, in case news comes of the peace being ended before Monday next,
and the possibility of the King's having some about him that may endeavour
to alter his own, and the good part of his Council's advice, for the
keeping up of the land-army; and, therefore, it was fit that they did
present it to the King as their desire, that, as soon as peace was
concluded, the land-army might be laid down, and that this their request
might be carried to the King by them of their House that were
Privy-councillors; which was put to the vote, and carried 'nemine
contradicente'.  So after this vote passed, they adjourned: but it is
plain what the effects of this Parliament will be, if they be suffered to
sit, that they will fall foul upon the faults of the Government; and I
pray God they may be permitted to do it, for nothing else, I fear, will
save the King and kingdom than the doing it betimes.  They gone, I to walk
with my wife in the garden, and then home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and betimes to the office, where Mr. Hater and I together all
the morning about the perfecting of my abstract book of contracts and
other things to my great content.  At noon home to dinner, and then to the
office again all the afternoon doing of other good things there, and being
tired, I then abroad with my wife and left her at the New Exchange, while
I by water thence to Westminster to the Hall, but shops were shut up, and
so to White Hall by water, and thence took up my wife at Unthanke's, and
so home, mightily tired with the dust in riding in a coach, it being
mighty troublesome.  So home and to my office, and there busy very late,
and then to walk a little with my wife, and then to supper and to bed.  No
news at all this day what we have done to the enemy, but that the enemy is
fallen down, and we after them, but to little purpose.

27th.  Up and to the office, where I hear that Sir John Coventry is come
over from Bredah, a nephew, I think, of Sir W. Coventry's: but what
message he brings I know not.  This morning news is come that Sir Jos.
Jordan is come from Harwich, with sixteen fire-ships and four other little
ships of war: and did attempt to do some execution upon the enemy, but did
it without discretion, as most do say, so as that they have been able to
do no good, but have lost four of their fire ships.  They attempted
[this], it seems, when the wind was too strong, that our grapplings could
not hold: others say we come to leeward of them, but all condemn it as a
foolish management.  They are come to Sir Edward Spragg about Lee, and the
Dutch are below at the Nore.  At the office all the morning; and at noon
to the 'Change, where I met Fenn; and he tells me that Sir John Coventry
do bring the confirmation of the peace; but I do not find the 'Change at
all glad of it, but rather the worse, they looking upon it as a peace made
only to preserve the King for a time in his lusts and ease, and to
sacrifice trade and his kingdoms only to his own pleasures: so that the
hearts of merchants are quite down.  He tells me that the King and my Lady
Castlemayne are quite broke off, and she is gone away, and is with child,
and swears the King shall own it; and she will have it christened in the
Chapel at White Hall so, and owned for the King's, as other Kings have
done; or she will bring it into White Hall gallery, and dash the brains of
it out before the King's face.

     [Charles owned only four children by Lady Castlemaine-Anne, Countess
     of Sussex, and the Dukes of Southampton, Grafton, and
     Northumberland.  The last of these was born in 1665.  The paternity
     of all her other children was certainly doubtful.  See pp. 50,52.]

He tells me that the King and Court were never in the world so bad as they
are now for gaming, swearing, whoring, and drinking, and the most
abominable vices that ever were in the world; so that all must come to
nought.  He told me that Sir G. Carteret was at this end of the town; so I
went to visit him in Broad Street; and there he and I together: and he is
mightily pleased with my Lady Jem's having a son; and a mighty glad man he
is.  He [Sir George Carteret] tells me, as to news, that the peace is now
confirmed, and all that over.  He says it was a very unhappy motion in the
House the other day about the land-army; for, whether the King hath a mind
of his own to do the thing desired or no, his doing it will be looked upon
as a thing done only in fear of the Parliament.  He says that the Duke of
York is suspected to be the great man that is for raising of this army,
and bringing things to be commanded by an army; but he believes that he is
wronged, and says that he do know that he is wronged therein.  He do say
that the Court is in a way to ruin all for their pleasures; and says that
he himself hath once taken the liberty to tell the King the necessity of
having, at least, a show of religion in the Government, and sobriety; and
that it was that, that did set up and keep up Oliver, though he was the
greatest rogue in the world, and that it is so fixed in the nature of the
common Englishman that it will not out of him.  He tells me that while all
should be labouring to settle the kingdom, they are at Court all in
factions, some for and others against my Lord Chancellor, and another for
and against another man, and the King adheres to no man, but this day
delivers himself up to this, and the next to that, to the ruin of himself
and business; that he is at the command of any woman like a slave, though
he be the best man to the Queene in the world, with so much respect, and
never lies a night from her: but yet cannot command himself in the
presence of a woman he likes.  Having had this discourse, I parted, and
home to dinner, and thence to the, office all the afternoon to my great
content very busy.  It raining this day all day to our great joy, it
having not rained, I think, this month before, so as the ground was
everywhere so burned and dry as could be; and no travelling in the road or
streets in London, for dust.  At night late home to supper and to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Up and to my chamber, where all the morning close, to
draw up a letter to Sir W. Coventry upon the tidings of peace, taking
occasion, before I am forced to it, to resign up to his Royall Highness my
place of the Victualling, and to recommend myself to him by promise of
doing my utmost to improve this peace in the best manner we may, to save
the kingdom from ruin.  By noon I had done this to my good content, and
then with my wife all alone to dinner, and so to my chamber all the
afternoon to write my letter fair, and sent it away, and then to talk with
my wife, and read, and so by daylight (the only time I think I have done
it this year) to supper, and then to my chamber to read and so to bed, my
mind very much eased after what I have done to-day.

29th.  Up, and with Sir W. Batten to St. James's, to Sir W. Coventry's
chamber; where, among other things, he come to me, and told me that he had
received my yesterday's letters, and that we concurred very well in our
notions; and that, as to my place which I had offered to resign of the
Victualling, he had drawn up a letter at the same time for the Duke of
York's signing for the like places in general raised during this war; and
that he had done me right to the Duke of York, to let him know that I had,
of my own accord, offered to resign mine.  The letter do bid us to do all
things, particularizing several, for the laying up of the ships, and
easing the King of charge; so that the war is now professedly over. By and
by up to the Duke of York's chamber; and there all the talk was about
Jordan's coming with so much indiscretion, with his four little frigates
and sixteen fire-ships from Harwich, to annoy the enemy.  His failures
were of several sorts, I know not which the truest: that he come with so
strong a gale of wind, that his grapplings would not hold; that he did
come by their lee; whereas if he had come athwart their hawse, they would
have held; that they did not stop a tide, and come up with a windward
tide, and then they would not have come so fast.  Now, there happened to
be Captain Jenifer by, who commanded the Lily in this business, and thus
says that, finding the Dutch not so many as they expected, they did not
know but that there were more of them above, and so were not so earnest to
the setting upon these; that they did do what they could to make the
fire-ships fall in among the enemy; and, for their lives, neither Sir J.
Jordan nor others could, by shooting several times at them, make them go
in; and it seems they were commanded by some idle fellows, such as they
could of a sudden gather up at Harwich; which is a sad consideration that,
at such a time as this, where the saving the reputation of the whole
nation lay at stake, and after so long a war, the King had not credit to
gather a few able men to command these vessels.  He says, that if they had
come up slower, the enemy would, with their boats and their great sloops,
which they have to row with a great many men, they would, and did, come
and cut up several of our fireships, and would certainly have taken most
of them, for they do come with a great provision of these boats on
purpose, and to save their men, which is bravely done of them, though they
did, on this very occasion, shew great fear, as they say, by some men
leaping overboard out of a great ship, as these were all of them of sixty
and seventy guns a-piece, which one of our fireships laid on board, though
the fire did not take. But yet it is brave to see what care they do take
to encourage their men to provide great stores of boats to save them,
while we have not credit to find one boat for a ship.  And, further, he
told us that this new way used by Deane, and this Sir W. Coventry observed
several times, of preparing of fire-ships, do not do the work; for the
fire, not being strong and quick enough to flame up, so as to take the
rigging and sails, lies smothering a great while, half an hour before it
flames, in which time they can get her off safely, though, which is
uncertain, and did fail in one or two this bout, it do serve to burn our
own ships.  But what a shame it is to consider how two of our ships'
companies did desert their ships for fear of being taken by their boats,
our little frigates being forced to leave them, being chased by their
greater!  And one more company did set their ship on fire, and leave her;
which afterwards a Feversham fisherman come up to, and put out the fire,
and carried safe into Feversham, where she now is, which was observed by
the Duke of York, and all the company with him, that it was only want of
courage, and a general dismay and abjectness of spirit upon all our men;
and others did observe our ill management, and God Almighty's curse upon
all that we have in hand, for never such an opportunity was of destroying
so many good ships of theirs as we now had.  But to see how negligent we
were in this business, that our fleete of Jordan's should not have any
notice where Spragg was, nor Spragg of Jordan's, so as to be able to meet
and join in the business, and help one another; but Jordan, when he saw
Spragg's fleete above, did think them to be another part of the enemy's
fleete!  When occasion demands he also shows himself capable of handling
thoroughly tragic themes with pronounced success. In his later years, it
is true, he fell into mannerism, overemphasized his inclination toward
didacticism and sententiousness, and allowed the philosopher to run away
with the poet by making his peasant folk think and speak as though they
were adepts in the system of Spinoza, with which Auerbach himself, being
of Jewish birth and having been educated to be a rabbi, was intimately
familiar. On the whole, however, the lasting impression we obtain from
Auerbach's literary work remains a very pleasant one--that of a rich
and characteristic life, sound to the core, vigorous and buoyant.

Not as a writer of village stories--for in the portrayal of the rustic
population, as such, he was not concerned--but in his basic purpose of
holding up nature, pure and holy, as an ideal, Adalbert Stifter (1805-1868),
an Austrian, must be assigned a place of honor in this group. A more
incisive contrast to the general turbulence of the forties could hardly
be imagined than is found in the nature descriptions and idyls of this
quietist, who "from the madding crowd's ignoble strife" sought refuge
in the stillness of the country and among people to whom such outward peace
is a physical necessity. His feeling for nature, especially for her
minutest and seemingly most insignificant phenomena, is closely akin
to religion; there is an infinite charm in his description of the mysterious
life of apparently lifeless objects; he renders all the sensuous impressions
so masterfully that the reader often has the feeling of a physical
experience; and it is but natural that up to his thirty-fifth year,
before he discovered his literary talent, he had dreamed of being a landscape
painter. Hebbel's epigram, "Know ye why ye are such past masters in painting
beetles and buttercups? 'Tis because ye know not man; 'tis because ye see
not the stars," utterly fails to do justice to Stifter's poetic
individuality.
But in avoiding the great tempests and serious conflicts of the human heart
he obeyed a healthy instinct of his artistic genius, choosing to retain
undisputed mastery in his own field.

It is, of course, an impossibility to treat adequately, in the remainder of
the space at our disposal, the poetic and general literary merit
of Fritz Reuter (1810-1874), the great regenerator and rejuvenator
of Low German as a literary language. His lasting merit in the field of
the village story is that by his exclusive use of dialect he threw an
effective safeguard around the naturalness of the emotional life of his
characters, and through this ingenious device will for all time to come
serve as a model to writers in this particular domain. For dialectic
utterance does not admit of any super-exaltation of sentiment; at any rate,
it helps to detect such at first glance. But there are other features no
less meritorious in his stories of rural life, chief of which is that
unique blending of seriousness and humor that makes us laugh and cry at
the same time. With his wise and kind heart, with his deep sympathy for all
human suffering, with the smile of understanding for everything truly
human, also for all the limitations and follies of human nature,
Reuter has worthily taken his place by the side of his model, Charles
Dickens. It is questionable whether even Dickens ever created a character
equal to the fine and excellent Uncle Bräsig, who, in the opinion
of competent critics, is the most successful humorous figure in all German
literature. Bräsig is certainly a masterpiece of psychology; as remote
from any mere comic effect, despite his idiosyncrasies, as from maudlin
sentimentality; an impersonation of sturdy manhood and a victor in life's
battles, no less than his creator, who, although he had lost
seven of the most precious years of his life in unjust imprisonment and
even had been under sentence of death for a crime of which he knew himself
to be absolutely innocent, had not allowed his fate to make him a pessimist.
Nor does the central theme and idea of his masterpiece _Ut mine Stromtid_
("From my Roaming Days," 1862), in its strength and beauty, deserve less
praise than the character delineation. Four years previous, in _Kein
Hüsung_ ("Homeless ") the author had raised a bitter cry of distress
over the social injustice and the deceit and arrogance of the ruling
classes. In spite of a ray of sunshine at the end, the treatment was
essentially tragic.
Now he has found a harmonious solution of the problem; the true nobility
of human nature triumphs over all social distinctions; aristocracy of birth
and yeomanry are forever united. Thus the marriage of Louise Havermann with
Franz von Rambow both symbolizes the fusion of opposing social forces and
exemplifies the lofty teaching of Gotthelf--"The light that is to illumine
our fatherland must have its birth at a fireside." With his gospel of
true humanity the North German poet supplements and brings to its full
fruition the religious austerity of the doctrines and precepts of Jeremias
Gotthelf, the preacher on the Alpine heights of Switzerland.

* * * *

BERTHOLD AUERBACH

LITTLE BAREFOOT[2] (1856)

A TALE OF VILLAGE LIFE
TRANSLATED BY H.W. DULCKEN, PH.D. REVISED AND ABRIDGED BY PAUL BERNARD THOMAS

CHAPTER I
THE CHILDREN KNOCK AT THE DOOR

Early in the morning through the autumnal mist two children of six or
seven years are wending their way, hand in hand, along the garden-paths
outside the village. The girl, evidently the elder of the two, carries
a slate, school-books, and writing materials under her arm; the boy has a
similar equipment, which he carries in an open gray linen bag slung across
his shoulder. The girl wears a cap of white twill, that reaches almost
to her forehead, and from beneath it the outline of her broad brow stands
forth prominently; the boy's head is bare. Only one child's step is heard,
for while the boy has strong shoes on, the girl is barefoot. Wherever the
path is broad enough, the children walk side by side, but where the space
between the hedges is too narrow for this, the girl walks ahead.

[Illustration: BERTHOLD AUERBACH Hans Meyer]
The white hoar frost has covered the faded leaves of the bushes, and the
haws and berries; and the flips especially, standing upright on their
bare stems, seem coated with silver. The sparrows in the hedges twitter
and fly away in restless groups at the children's approach; then they
settle down not far off, only to go whirring up again, till at last they
flutter into a garden and alight in an apple-tree with such force that
the leaves come showering down. A magpie flies up suddenly from the path
and shoots across to the large pear-tree, where some ravens are perched
in silence. The magpie must have told them something, for the ravens fly
up and circle round the tree; one old fellow perches himself on the
waving crown, while the others find good posts of observation on the
branches below. They, too, are doubtless curious to know why the children,
with their school things, are following the wrong path and going out of
the village; one raven, indeed, flies out as a scout and perches on a
stunted willow by the pond. The children, however, go quietly on their way
till, by the alders beside the pond, they come upon the high-road,
which they cross to reach a humble house standing on the farther side.
The house is locked up, and the children stand at the door and knock
gently. The girl cries bravely: "Father! mother!"--and the boy timidly
repeats it after her: "Father! mother!" Then the girl takes hold of the
frost-covered latch and presses it, at first gently, and listens;
the boards of the door creak, but there is no other result. And now she
ventures to rattle the latch up and down vigorously, but the sounds die
away in the empty vestibule--no human voice answers. The boy then presses
his mouth to a crack in the door and cries: "Father! mother!" He looks up
inquiringly at his sister--his breath on the door has also turned to
hoar frost.

From the village, lying in a shroud of mist, come the measured sounds of the
thresher's flail, now in sudden volleys, now slowly and with a dragging
cadence, now in sharp, crackling bursts, and now again with a dull and
hollow beat. Sometimes there is the noise of one flail only, but presently
others have joined in on all sides. The children stand still and seem lost.
Finally they stop knocking and calling, and sit down on some uprooted
tree-stumps. The latter lie in a heap around the trunk of a mountain-ash
which stands beside the house, and which is now radiant with its red
berries. The children's eyes are again turned toward the door-but it is
still locked.

"Father got those out of the Mossbrook Wood," said the girl, pointing to the
stumps; and she added with a precocious look: "They give out lots of heat,
and are worth quite a little; for there is a good deal of resin in them,
and that burns like a torch. But chopping them brings in the most money."

"If I were already grown up," replied the boy, "I'd take father's big ax,
and the beechwood mallet, and the two iron wedges, and the ash wedge
and break it all up as if it were glass. And then I'd make a fine, pointed
heap of it like the charcoal-burner, Mathew, makes in the woods; and
when father comes home, how pleased he'll be! But you must not tell him
who did it!" the boy concluded, raising a warning finger at his sister.

She seemed to have a dawning suspicion that it was useless to wait there
for their father and mother, for she looked up at her brother very sadly.
When her glance fell on his shoes, she said:

"Then you must have father's boots, too. But come, we will play ducks and
drakes-you shall see that I can throw farther than you!"
As they walked away, the girl said:

"I'll give you a riddle to guess: What wood will warm you without your
burning it?"
"The schoolmaster's ruler, when you get the spatters," answered the boy.

"No, that's not what I mean: The wood that you chop makes you warm without
your burning it." And pausing by the hedge, she asked again:

"On a stick he has his head, And his jacket it is red, And filled with
stone is he--Now who may he be?"
The boy bethought himself very gravely, and cried "Stop! You mustn't tell
me what it is!--Why, its a hip!"
The girl nodded assentingly, and made a face as if this were the first
time she had ever given him the riddle to guess; as a matter of fact,
however, she had given it to him very often, and had used it many times
to cheer him up.

The sun had dispersed the mist, and the little valley stood in glittering
sheen, as the children turned away to the pond to skim flat stones on the
water. As they passed the house the girl pressed the latch once more; but
again the door did not open, nor was anything to be seen at the window. And
now the children played merrily beside the pond, and the girl seemed
quite content that her brother should be the more clever at the sport,
and that he should boast of it and grow quite excited over it; indeed, she
manifestly tried to be less clever at it, than she really was, for the
stones she threw almost always plumped down to the bottom as soon as
they struck the water--for which she got properly laughed at by
her companion. In the excitement of the sport the children quite forgot
where they were and why they had come there--and yet it was a strange
and sorrowful occasion.

In the house, which was now so tightly locked up, there had lived, but a
short time before, one Josenhans, with his wife and their two children,
Amrei (Anna Marie) and Damie (Damien). The father was a woodcutter in the
forest, and was, moreover, an adept at various kinds of work; the house,
which was in a dilapidated state when he bought it, he had himself repaired
and reroofed, and in the autumn he was going to whitewash it inside--the
lime was already lying prepared in the trench, covered with withered
branches. His wife was one of the best day-laboring women in the
village--ready for anything, day and night, in weal and in woe; for she
had trained her children, especially Amrei, to manage for themselves at
an early age. Industry and frugal contentment made the house one of
the happiest in the village. Then came a deadly sickness which snatched
away the mother, and the following evening, the father; and a few days later
two coffins were carried away from the little house. The children had
been taken immediately into the next house, to "Coaly Mathew," and they
did not know of their parents' death until they were dressed in their
Sunday clothes to follow the bodies.

Josenhans and his wife had no near relations in the place, but there
was, nevertheless, loud weeping heard, and much mournful praise of
the dead couple.

The village magistrate walked with one of the children at each hand behind
the two coffins. Even at the grave the children were quiet and unconscious,
indeed, almost cheerful, though they often asked for their father and
mother. They dined at the magistrate's house, and everybody was exceedingly
kind to them; and when they got up from the table, each one received a
parcel of cakes to take away.

But that evening, when, according to an arrangement of the village authorities,
"Crappy Zachy" came to get Damie, and Black Marianne called for Amrei, the
children refused to separate from each other, and cried aloud, and
wanted to go home. Damie soon allowed himself to be pacified by
all sorts of promises, but Amrei obliged them to use force--she would not
move from the spot, and the magistrate's foreman had to carry her
in his arms into Black Marianne's house. There she found her own bed--the
one she had used at home--but she would not lie down on it. Finally,
however, exhausted by crying, she fell asleep on the floor and was put
to bed in her clothes. Damie, too, was heard weeping aloud at Crappy
Zachy's, and even screaming pitiably, but soon after he was silent.

The much-defamed Black Marianne, on the other hand, showed on this first
evening how quietly anxious she was about her foster-child. For many, many
years she had not had a child about her, and now she stood before the
sleeping girl and said, almost aloud:

"Happy sleep of childhood! Happy children who can be crying, and before
you look around they are asleep, without worry or restless tossing!"
[Illustration: Benjamin Vautier TWO COFFINS WERE CARRIED AWAY FROM THE
LITTLE HOUSE]
She sighed deeply.

The next morning Amrei went early to her brother to help him dress himself,
and consoled him concerning what had happened to him, declaring that when
their father came home he would pay off Crappy Zachy. Then the two children
went out to their parents' house, knocked at the door and wept aloud,
until Coaly Mathew, who lived near there, came and took them to school.
He asked the master to explain to the children that their parents were
dead, because he himself could not make it clear to them--Amrei especially
seemed determined not to understand it. The master did all he could,
and the children became quiet. But from the school they went back to
the empty house and waited there, hungry and forsaken, until they were
fetched away.

Josenhans' house was taken by the mortgagee, and the payment the deceased
had made upon it was lost; for the value of houses had decreased enormously
through emigration; many houses in the village stood empty, and Josenhans'
dwelling also remained unoccupied. All the movable property had been sold,
and a small sum had thus been realized for the children, but it was not
nearly enough to pay for their board; they were consequently parish
children, and as such were placed with those who would take them at the
cheapest rate.

One day Amrei announced gleefully to her brother that she knew where
their parents' cuckoo-clock was--Coaly Mathew had bought it. And
that very evening the children stood outside the house and waited for
the cuckoo to sing; and when it did, they laughed aloud.

And every morning the children went to the old house, and knocked, and
played beside the pond, as we saw them doing today. Now they listen, for
they hear a sound that is not often heard at this season of the year-the
cuckoo at Coaly Mathew's is singing eight times.

"We must go to school," said Amrei, and she turned quickly with her brother
through the garden-path back into the village. As they passed Farmer
Rodel's barn, Damie said:

"They've threshed a great deal at our guardian's today." And he pointed
to the bands of threshed sheaves that hung over the half-door of the barn,
as evidence of accomplished work. Amrei nodded silently.
CHAPTER II 
THE DISTANT SOUL
Farmer Rodel, whose house with its red beams and its pious text in
a large heart over the door, was not far from Josenhans's had let
himself be appointed guardian of the orphan children by the Village
Council. He made the less objection for the reason that Josenhans
had, in former days, served as second-man on his farm. His guardianship,
however, was practically restricted to his taking care of the
father's unsold clothes, and to his occasionally asking one of the
children, as he passed by: "Are you good?"--whereupon he would march
off without even waiting for an answer. Nevertheless a strange
feeling of pride came over the children when they heard that the
rich farmer was their guardian, and they looked upon themselves as
very fortunate people, almost aristocratic. They often stood near
the large house and looked up at it expectantly, as if they were
waiting for something and knew not what; and often, too, they sat
by the plows and harrows near the barn and read the biblical text
on the house over and over again. The house seemed to speak to them,
if no one else did.
It was the Sunday before All Souls' Day, and the children were again
playing before the locked house of their parents,--they seemed to
love the spot,--when Farmer Landfried's wife came down the road
from Hochdorf, with a large red umbrella under her arm, and a
hymn-book in her hand. She was paying a final visit to her native
place; for the day before the hired-man had already carried her
household furniture out of the village in a four-horse wagon, and
early the next morning she was to move with her husband and her
three children to the farm they had just bought in distant Allgau.
From way up by the mill Dame Landfried was already nodding to the
children--for to meet children on first going out is, they say, a
good sign--but the children could not see her nodding, nor could
they see her sorrowful features. At last, when she drew near to
them, she said:
"God greet ye, children! What are you doing here so early? To whom
do you belong?"
"To Josenhans--there!" answered Amrei, pointing to the house.
"Oh, you poor children!" cried the woman, clasping her hands. "I
should have known you, my girl, for your mother, when she went to
school with me, looked just as you do--we were good companions; and
your father served my cousin, Farmer Rodel. I know all about you.
But tell me, Amrei, why have you no shoes on? You might take cold
in such weather as this! Tell Marianne that Dame Landfried of
Hochdorf told you to say, it is not right of her to let you run
about like this! But no--you needn't say anything--I will speak to
her myself. But, Amrei, you are a big girl now, and must be sensible
and look out for yourself. Just think--what would your mother say,
if she knew that you were running about barefoot at this season of
the year?"
The child looked at the speaker with wide-open eyes, as if to
say:
"Doesn't my mother know anything about it?"
But the woman continued:
"That's the worst of it, that you poor children cannot know what
virtuous parents you had, and therefore older people must tell
you.
Remember that you will give real, true happiness to your parents,
when they hear, yonder in heaven, how the people down here on earth
are saying 'The Josenhans children are models of all goodness--one
can see in them the blessing of honest parents.'"
The tears poured down the woman's cheeks as she spoke these last
words.
The feeling of grief in her soul, arising from quite another cause,
burst out irresistibly at these words and thoughts; there was sorrow
for herself mingled with pity for others.ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     20s. in money, and what wine she needed, for the burying him
     Archbishop is a wencher, and known to be so
     Bold to deliver what he thinks on every occasion
     Cast stones with his horne crooke
     Court is in a way to ruin all for their pleasures
     Dash the brains of it out before the King's face
     Dog, that would turn a sheep any way which
     Dutch fleets being in so many places
     Fool's play with which all publick things are done
     Good purpose of fitting ourselves for another war (A Peace)
     He was charged with making himself popular
     King governed by his lust, and women, and rogues about him
     King is at the command of any woman like a slave
     King the necessity of having, at least, a show of religion
     Never to keep a country-house, but to keep a coach
     Nobody being willing to trust us for anything
     She has this silly vanity that she must play
     So every thing stands still for money
     They are all mad; and thus the kingdom is governed!
     What way a man could devise to lose so much in so little time


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                AUGUST
                                 1667

August 1st.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon my wife and I
dined at Sir W. Pen's, only with Mrs. Turner and her husband, on a damned
venison pasty, that stunk like a devil.  However, I did not know it till
dinner was done.  We had nothing but only this, and a leg of mutton, and a
pullet or two.  Mrs. Markham was here, with her great belly.  I was very
merry, and after dinner, upon a motion of the women, I was got to go to
the play with them-the first I have seen since before the Dutch coming
upon our coast, and so to the King's house, to see "The Custome of the
Country."  The house mighty empty--more than ever I saw it--and an ill
play.  After the play, we into the house, and spoke with Knipp, who went
abroad with us by coach to the Neat Houses in the way to Chelsy; and
there, in a box in a tree, we sat and sang, and talked and eat; my wife
out of humour, as she always is, when this woman is by. So, after it was
dark, we home.  Set Knepp down at home, who told us the story how Nell is
gone from the King's house, and is kept by my Lord Buckhurst.  Then we
home, the gates of the City shut, it being so late: and at Newgate we find
them in trouble, some thieves having this night broke open prison.  So we
through, and home; and our coachman was fain to drive hard from two or
three fellows, which he said were rogues, that he met at the end of
Blow-bladder Street, next Cheapside.  So set Mrs. Turner home, and then we
home, and I to the Office a little; and so home and to bed, my wife in an
ill humour still.

2nd.  Up, but before I rose my wife fell into angry discourse of my
kindness yesterday to Mrs. Knipp, and leading her, and sitting in the
coach hand in hand, and my arm about her middle, and in some bad words
reproached me with it.  I was troubled, but having much business in my
head and desirous of peace rose and did not provoke her.  So she up and
come to me and added more, and spoke basely of my father, who I perceive
did do something in the country, at her last being there, that did not
like her, but I would not enquire into anything, but let her talk, and
when ready away to the Office I went, where all the morning I was, only
Mr. Gawden come to me, and he and I home to my chamber, and there
reckoned, and there I received my profits for Tangier of him, and L250 on
my victualling score.  He is a most noble-minded man as ever I met with,
and seems to own himself much obliged to me, which I will labour to make
him; for he is a good man also: we talked on many good things relating to
the King's service, and, in fine, I had much matter of joy by this
morning's work, receiving above L400 of him, on one account or other; and
a promise that, though I lay down my victualling place, yet, as long as he
continues victualler, I shall be the better by him.  To the office again,
and there evened all our business with Mr. Kinaston about Colonel
Norwood's Bill of Exchange from Tangier, and I am glad of it, for though
he be a good man, yet his importunity tries me.  So home to dinner, where
Mr. Hater with me and W. Hewer, because of their being in the way after
dinner, and so to the office after dinner, where and with my Lord Bruneker
at his lodgings all the afternoon and evening making up our great account
for the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, but not so as pleased me yet.
So at 12 at night home to supper and to bed, my wife being gone in an ill
humour to bed before me.  This noon my wife comes to me alone, and tells
me she had those upon her and bid me remember it.  I asked her why, and
she said she had a reason.  I do think by something too she said to-day,
that she took notice that I had not lain with her this half-year, that she
thinks that I have some doubt that she might be with child by somebody
else.  Which God knows never entered into my head, or whether my father
observed any thing at Brampton with Coleman I know not.  But I do not do
well to let these beginnings of discontents take so much root between us.

3rd.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning.  Then at noon to
dinner, and to the office again, there to enable myself, by finishing our
great account, to give it to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury;
which I did, and there was called in to them, to tell them only the total
of our debt of the Navy on the 25th of May last, which is above L950,000.
Here I find them mighty hot in their answer to the Council-board about our
Treasurer's threepences of the Victualling, and also against the present
farm of the Customes, which they do most highly inveigh against. So home
again by coach, and there hard to work till very late and my eyes began to
fail me, which now upon very little overworking them they do, which
grieves me much.  Late home, to supper, and to bed.

4th (Lord's day).  Busy at my Office from morning till night, in writing
with my own hand fair our large general account of the expence and debt of
the Navy, which lasted me till night to do, that I was almost blind, and
Mr. Gibson with me all day long, and dined with me, and excellent
discourse I had with him, he understanding all the business of the Navy
most admirably.  To walk a little with my wife at night in the garden, it
being very hot weather again, and so to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up, and with Sir W. Batten in the morning to St. James's, where we
did our ordinary business with the Duke of York, where I perceive they
have taken the highest resolution in the world to become good husbands,
and to retrench all charge; and to that end we are commanded to give him
an account of the establishment in the seventh year of the late King's
reign, and how offices and salaries have been increased since; and I hope
it will end in the taking away some of our Commissioners, though it may be
to the lessening of some of our salaries also.  After done with the Duke
of York, and coming out through his dressing-room, I there spied Signor
Francisco tuning his gittar, and Monsieur de Puy with him, who did make
him play to me, which he did most admirably--so well as I was mightily
troubled that all that pains should have been taken upon so bad an
instrument.  Walked over the Park with Mr. Gawden, end with him by coach
home, and to the Exchange, where I hear the ill news of our loss lately of
four rich ships, two from Guinea, one from Gallipoly, all with rich oyles;
and the other from Barbadoes, worth, as is guessed, L80,000. But here is
strong talk, as if Harman had taken some of the Dutch East India ships,
but I dare not yet believe it, and brought them into Lisbon.

     ["Sept. 6, 1667.  John Clarke to James Hickes.  A vessel arrived
     from Harwich brings news that the English lost 600 to 700 men in the
     attempt on St. Christopher; that Sir John Harman was not then there,
     but going with 11 ships, and left a ketch at Barbadoes to bring more
     soldiers after him; that the ketch met a French sloop with a packet
     from St. Christopher to their fleet at Martinico, and took her,
     whereupon Sir John Harman sailed there and fell upon their fleet of
     27 sail, 25 of which he sank, and burnt the others, save two which
     escaped; also that he left three of his fleet there, and went with
     the rest to Nevis, to make another attempt on St. Christopher.
     "Calendar of State Payers, 1667, p. 447]

Home, and dined with my wife at Sir W. Pen's, where a very good pasty of
venison, better than we expected, the last stinking basely, and after
dinner he and my wife and I to the Duke of York's house, and there saw
"Love Trickes, or the School of Compliments;" a silly play, only Miss
[Davis's] dancing in a shepherd's clothes did please us mightily.  Thence
without much pleasure home and to my Office, so home, to supper, and to
bed.  My wife mighty angry with Nell, who is turned a very gossip, and
gads abroad as soon as our backs are turned, and will put her away
tomorrow, which I am not sorry for.

6th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning very full of business.
A full Board.  Here, talking of news, my Lord Anglesey did tell us that
the Dutch do make a further bogle with us about two or three things, which
they will be satisfied in, he says, by us easily; but only in one, it
seems, they do demand that we shall not interrupt their East Indiamen
coming home, and of which they are in some fear; and we are full of hopes
that we have 'light upon some of them, and carried them into Lisbon, by
Harman; which God send!  But they, which do shew the low esteem they have
of us, have the confidence to demand that we shall have a cessation on our
parts, and yet they at liberty to take what they will; which is such an
affront, as another cannot be devised greater.  At noon home to dinner,
where I find Mrs. Wood, formerly Bab. Shelden, and our Mercer, who is
dressed to-day in a paysan dress, that looks mighty pretty.  We dined and
sang and laughed mighty merry, and then I to the Office, only met at the
door with Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Burroughs, who I took in and drank with,
but was afraid my wife should see them, they being, especially the first,
a prattling gossip, and so after drinking with them parted, and I to the
Office, busy as long as my poor eyes would endure, which troubles me
mightily and then into the garden with my wife, and to Sir W. Batten's
with [Sir] W. Pen and [Sir] J. Minnes, and there eat a melon and talked,
and so home to supper and to bed.  My wife, as she said last night, hath
put away Nell to-day, for her gossiping abroad and telling of stories.
Sir W. Batten did tell me to-night that the Council have ordered a hearing
before them of Carcasses business, which do vex me mightily, that we
should be troubled so much by an idle rogue, a servant of our own, and all
my thoughts to-night have been how to manage the matter before the
Council.

7th.  Up, and at the office very busy, and did much business all the
morning.  My wife abroad with her maid Jane and Tom all the afternoon,
being gone forth to eat some pasties at "The Bottle of Hay," in St. John's
Street, as you go to Islington, of which she is mighty fond, and I dined
at home alone, and at the office close all the afternoon, doing much
business to my great content.  This afternoon Mr. Pierce, the surgeon,
comes to me about business, and tells me that though the King and my Lady
Castlemayne are friends again, she is not at White Hall, but at Sir D.
Harvy's, whither the King goes to her; and he says she made him ask her
forgiveness upon his knees, and promised to offend her no more so: that,
indeed, she did threaten to bring all his bastards to his closet-door, and
hath nearly hectored him out of his wits.  I at my office till night, and
then home to my pipe, my wife not coming home, which vexed me.  I then
into the garden, and there walked alone in the garden till 10 at night,
when she come home, having been upon the water and could not get home
sooner.  So to supper, and to bed.

8th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, where busy, and at noon home
to dinner, where Creed dined with us, who tells me that Sir Henry
Bellasses is dead of the duell he fought about ten days ago, with Tom
Porter; and it is pretty to see how the world talk of them as a couple of
fools, that killed one another out of love.  After dinner to the office a
while, and then with my wife to the Temple, where I light and sent her to
her tailor's.  I to my bookseller's; where, by and by, I met Mr. Evelyn,
and talked of several things, but particularly of the times: and he tells
me that wise men do prepare to remove abroad what they have, for that we
must be ruined, our case being past relief, the kingdom so much in debt,
and the King minding nothing but his lust, going two days a-week to see my
Lady Castlemayne at Sir D. Harvy's.  He gone, I met with Mr. Moore, who
tells me that my Lord Hinchingbroke is now with his mistress, but not that
he is married, as W. Howe come and told us the other day. So by coach to
White Hall, and there staid a little, thinking to see Sir G. Carteret, but
missed him, and so by coach took up my wife, and so home, and as far as
Bow, where we staid and drank, and there, passing by Mr. Lowther and his
lady, they stopped and we talked a little with them, they being in their
gilt coach, and so parted; and presently come to us Mr. Andrews, whom I
had not seen a good while, who, as other merchants do, do all give over
any hopes of things doing well, and so he spends his time here most,
playing at bowles.  After dining together at the coach-side, we with great
pleasure home, and so to the office, where I despatched my business, and
home to supper, and to bed.

9th.  Up, and betimes with Sir H. Cholmly upon some accounts of Tangier,
and then he and I to Westminster, to Mr. Burges, and then walked in the
Hall, and he and I talked, and he do really declare that he expects that
of necessity this kingdom will fall back again to a commonwealth, and
other wise men are of the same mind: this family doing all that silly men
can do, to make themselves unable to support their kingdom, minding their
lust and their pleasure, and making their government so chargeable, that
people do well remember better things were done, and better managed, and
with much less charge under a commonwealth than they have been by this
King, and do seem to resolve to wind up his businesses and get money in
his hand against the turn do come.  After some talk I by coach and there
dined, and with us Mr. Batelier by chance coming in to speak with me, and
when I come home, and find Mr. Goodgroome, my wife's singing-master, there
I did soundly rattle him for neglecting her so much as he hath done--she
not having learned three songs these three months and more. After dinner
my wife abroad with Mrs. Turner, and I to the office, where busy all the
afternoon, and in the evening by coach to St. James's, and there met Sir
W. Coventry; and he and I walked in the Park an hour.  And then to his
chamber, where he read to me the heads of the late great dispute between
him and the rest of the Commissioners of the Treasury, and our new
Treasurer of the Navy where they have overthrown him the last Wednesday,
in the great dispute touching his having the payment of the Victualler,
which is now settled by Council that he is not to have it and, indeed,
they have been most just, as well as most severe and bold, in the doing
this against a man of his quality; but I perceive he do really make no
difference between any man.  He tells me this day it is supposed the peace
is ratified at Bredah, and all that matter over.  We did talk of many
retrenchments of charge of the Navy which he will put in practice, and
every where else; though, he tells me, he despairs of being able to do
what ought to be done for the saving of the kingdom, which I tell him, as
indeed all the world is almost in hopes of, upon the proceeding of these
gentlemen for the regulating of the Treasury, it being so late, and our
poverty grown so great, that they want where to set their feet, to begin
to do any thing.  He tells me how weary he hath for this year and a half
been of the war; and how in the Duke of York's bedchamber, at Christ
Church, at Oxford, when the Court was there, he did labour to persuade the
Duke to fling off the care of the Navy, and get it committed to other
hands; which, if he had done, would have been much to his honour, being
just come home with so much honour from sea as he did. I took notice of
the sharp letter he wrote, which he sent us to read yesterday, to Sir
Edward Spragg, where he is very plain about his leaving his charge of the
ships at Gravesend, when the enemy come last up, and several other things:
a copy whereof I have kept.  But it is done like a most worthy man; and he
says it is good, now and then, to tell these gentlemen their duties, for
they need it.  And it seems, as he tells me, all our Knights are fallen
out one with another, he, and Jenings, and Hollis, and (his words were)
they are disputing which is the coward among them; and yet men that take
the greatest liberty of censuring others! Here, with him, very late, till
I could hardly get a coach or link willing to go through the ruines; but I
do, but will not do it again, being, indeed, very dangerous.  So home and
to supper, and bed, my head most full of an answer I have drawn this noon
to the Committee of the Council to whom Carcasses business is referred to
be examined again.

10th.  Up, and to the Office, and there finished the letter about
Carcasse, and sent it away, I think well writ, though it troubles me we
should be put to trouble by this rogue so much.  At the office all the
morning, and at noon home to dinner, where I sang and piped with my wife
with great pleasure, and did hire a coach to carry us to Barnett
to-morrow.  After dinner I to the office, and there wrote as long as my
eyes would give me leave, and then abroad and to the New Exchange, to the
bookseller's there, where I hear of several new books coming out--Mr.
Spratt's History of the Royal Society, and Mrs. Phillips's' poems. Sir
John Denham's poems are going to be all printed together; and, among
others, some new things; and among them he showed me a copy of verses of
his upon Sir John Minnes's going heretofore to Bullogne to eat a pig.

     [The collected edition of Denham's poems is dated 1668.  The verses
     referred to are inscribed "To Sir John Mennis being invited from
     Calice to Bologne to eat a pig," and two of the lines run

                   "Little Admiral John
                    To Bologne is gone."]

Cowley, he tells me, is dead; who, it seems, was a mighty civil, serious
man; which I did not know before.  Several good plays are likely to be
abroad soon, as Mustapha and Henry the 5th.  Here having staid and
divertised myself a good while, I home again and to finish my letters by
the post, and so home, and betimes to bed with my wife because of rising
betimes to-morrow.

11th (Lord's day).  Up by four o'clock, and ready with Mrs. Turner to take
coach before five; which we did, and set on our journey, and got to the
Wells at Barnett by seven o'clock, and there found many people a-drinking;
but the morning is a very cold morning, so as we were very cold all the
way in the coach.  Here we met Joseph Batelier, and I talked with him, and
here was W. Hewer also, and his uncle Steventon: so, after drinking three
glasses and the women nothing, we back by coach to Barnett, where to the
Red Lyon, where we 'light, and went up into the great Room, and there
drank, and eat some of the best cheese-cakes that ever I eat in my life,
and so took coach again, and W. Hewer on horseback with us, and so to
Hatfield, to the inn, next my Lord Salisbury's house, and there rested
ourselves, and drank, and bespoke dinner; and so to church, it being just
church-time, and there we find my Lord and my Lady Sands and several fine
ladies of the family, and a great many handsome faces and genteel persons
more in the church, and did hear a most excellent good sermon, which
pleased me mightily, and very devout; it being upon, the signs of saving
grace, where it is in a man, and one sign, which held him all this day,
was, that where that grace was, there is also the grace of prayer, which
he did handle very finely.  In this church lies the former Lord of
Salisbury, Cecil, buried in a noble tomb. So the church being done, we to
our inn, and there dined very well, and mighty merry; and as soon as we
had dined we walked out into the Park through the fine walk of trees, and
to the Vineyard, and there shewed them that, which is in good order, and
indeed a place of great delight; which, together with our fine walk
through the Park, was of as much pleasure as could be desired in the world
for country pleasure and good ayre.  Being come back, and weary with the
walk, for as I made it, it was pretty long, being come back to our inne,
there the women had pleasure in putting on some straw hats, which are much
worn in this country, and did become them mightily, but especially my
wife.  So, after resting awhile, we took coach again, and back to Barnett,
where W. Hewer took us into his lodging, which is very handsome, and there
did treat us very highly with cheesecakes, cream, tarts, and other good
things; and then walked into the garden, which was pretty, and there
filled my pockets full of filberts, and so with much pleasure.  Among
other things, I met in this house with a printed book of the Life of O.
Cromwell, to his honour as a soldier and politician, though as a rebell,
the first of that kind that ever I saw, and it is well done.  Took coach
again, and got home with great content, just at day shutting in, and so as
soon as home eat a little and then to bed, with exceeding great content at
our day's work.

12th.  My wife waked betimes to call up her maids to washing, and so to
bed again, whom I then hugged, it being cold now in the mornings .  .  . .
Up by and by, and with Mr. Gawden by coach to St. James's, where we find
the Duke gone a-hunting with the King, but found Sir W. Coventry within,
with whom we discoursed, and he did largely discourse with us about our
speedy falling upon considering of retrenchments in the expense of the
Navy, which I will put forward as much as I can.  So having done there I
to Westminster Hall to Burges, and then walked to the New Exchange, and
there to my bookseller's, and did buy Scott's Discourse of Witches; and do
hear Mr. And yet she must be calm and steady in her work, and not rush
and rampage about as if she were going to pull down a piece of the world.
And when she speaks and answers you, notice whether she is either
too bashful or too bold. You may not believe it, but girls are quite
different when they see a man's hat from what they are among themselves.
And those who look as if they were all the time saying, "Don't eat
me!"

     are the worst--but, no--those who have such sharp tongues, and think
     that when anybody is in the room their tongues should never rest,
those are worse still."

The lad laughed and said:

"Mother, you ought to go about the world preaching, and give lectures
for girls only."
"Yes, I could do that," replied the mother, also laughing. "But I have
brought out the last part first; you must, of course, notice how she behaves
to her parents and to her brothers and sisters. You are a good son
yourself--I need not tell you anything about that. You know the Fourth
Commandment."
"Yes, mother, you may rest easy there--I look out for a special sign in
regard to that; where they make a big fuss about love for parents, it means
nothing. For filial love is best shown by deeds, and those who chatter
very much about it, when the time comes for deeds, are tired and
weary."
"Why, how wise you are!" cried the mother; and she laid her hand on her
bosom and looked up at her son. "May I tell you something more?"
[Mother and son continue to discuss the qualifications of good wives for
some time, until the son begins to show signs of impatience to be off.]

"Yes, yes," said the mother, "I talk too much, and you need not remember it
all. It's only to remind you, if it should come before you. The gist of
what I say is this: the chief thing is not what a woman has or inherits,
but what she uses.

And now, you know that I have always let you go your own way quietly; so
then, open your heart to me, and tell me what it was that made you come
back from the wedding at Endringen like a man bewitched, and why it is
that you have never since then been the same lad that you were before.
Tell me, and perhaps I can help you."
"Oh, mother, you cannot do that--but I will tell you. I saw some one there
who would have been the right one, but she was the wrong one."
"For heaven's sake! You did not fall in love with a married woman?"
"No, but still she was the wrong one. Why should I make many words about
it? She was a servant-girl."
The son drew a deep breath, and for some time both he and his mother
were silent. At last the mother laid her hand on his shoulder, and
said:

"Oh, you are good! And I thank God that He has made you so. You did well
to put that out of your mind. Your father would never have consented to it,
and you know what a father's blessing means."
"No, mother, I will not make myself out better than I am. I myself was annoyed
that she was only a servant; I knew it would not do, and therefore I went
away. But it is even harder than I expected to get her out of my mind--but
now it's over, it must be over. I have promised myself not to make any
inquiries about her, not to ask anybody where she is, or who she is, and,
God willing, I shall bring you home a worthy farmer's daughter."
"Surely you acted fairly by the girl, and did not put any foolish notions
into her head?"
"Mother, there's my hand--I have nothing to reproach myself for."
"I believe you," said the mother, and she pressed his hand repeatedly.
"And now, good luck, and my blessing go with you!"
The son mounted his horse, and his mother looked after him. But suddenly she
called out again:

"Stop--I must tell you something else. I have forgotten the most important
of all."
The son turned his horse around, and when he got back to his mother, he
said, smiling:

"But mother--this is the last, eh?"
"Yes, and the best test of all. Ask the girl about the poor people in her
town, and then listen to what the poor people have to say about her.
A farmer's daughter who has not taken some poor person by the hand to
help her, cannot be a worthy girl--remember that. And now, God keep
you, and ride forth bravely."

As he rode off the mother spoke a prayer to speed him on his way, and then
returned to the farm.

"I ought to have told him to inquire about Josenhans's children, and to
find out what has become of them," said the mother to herself. She felt
strangely moved. And who knows the secret ways through which the soul
wanders, or what currents flow above our wonted course, or deep beneath
it? What made the mother think of these children, who seemed to
have faded from her memory long ago? Was her present pious mood like a
remembrance of long-forgotten emotions? And did it awaken the circumstances
that had accompanied those emotions? Who can understand the
impalpable and invisible elements that wander and float back and forth
from man to man, from memory to memory?

When the mother got back to the farm and found the father, the latter
said:

"No doubt you have given him many directions how to fish out the best
one; but I, too, have been making some arrangements. I have written to
Crappy Zachy--he is sure to lead him to the best houses. He must bring a
girl home who has plenty of good coin."
"Plenty of coin doesn't constitute goodness," replied the mother.

"I know that!" cried the farmer, with a sneer. "But why shouldn't he bring
home one who is good and has plenty of coin into the bargain?"
The mother sat silent for a time, but after awhile she said:

"You've referred him to Crappy Zachy. It was at Crappy Zachy's that
Josenhans's boy was boarded out."
Thus her pronouncing the name aloud showed that her former remembrances
were dawning upon her; and now she became conscious what those
remembrances were. And her mind often reverted to them during the events
that were soon to occur, and which we are about to relate.

"I don't know what you're talking about," said the farmer. "What's the
child to you? Why don't you say that I did the thing wisely?"
"Yes, yes, it was wisely done," the wife acquiesced. But the tardy praise
did not satisfy the old man, and he went out grumbling.

A certain apprehension that things might go wrong with his boy after all,
and that perhaps he had been in too great a hurry, made the farmer
gruff, for the present, toward everybody about him.

CHAPTER XIV
THE RIDER ON THE WHITE HORSE

On the evening of the same day that John had ridden away from
Zumarshofen, Crappy Zachy came to Farmer Rodel's house and sat with
the proprietor in the back room for a long time, reading a letter
to him in a low voice.

"You must give me a hundred crowns if I put this business through, and I
want that down in writing," said Crappy Zachy.

"I should think that fifty would be enough, and even that is a pretty
bit of money."
"No, not a red farthing less than a round hundred, and in saying that I
am making you a present of a hundred. But I am willing to do that much
for you and your sister--in fact, I am always glad to do a
kindness to a fellow-townsman. Why, in Endringen or in Siebenhofen they
would gladly give me double the money. Your Rose is a very respectable
girl--nobody can deny that--but she's nothing extraordinary, and one
might ask, what's the price of a dozen such?"
"Be quiet! I won't have that!"
"Yes, yes, I'll be quiet, and not disturb you while you're writing. Now,
write at once."
Farmer Rodel was obliged to do as Crappy Zachy wished, and when he had
done writing, he said:

"What do you think? Shall I tell Rose about it?"
"Certainly, you must do so. But don't let her show that she knows about
it, nor tell any one in the place; it won't bear being talked about. All
people have their enemies, you and your sister like the rest, you may believe
me. Tell Rose to wear her everyday clothes and milk the cows when he comes.
I shall have him come to your house alone. You read what Farmer Landfried
writes; the boy has a will of his own, and would run away directly,
if he suspected that there was anything being prepared for him.

And you must send this very evening to Lauterbach and have your
brother-in-law's white horse brought over here; then I'll get somebody
to send the suitor over to you in quest of the horse. Don't let him
notice that you know anything about it either."
Crappy Zachy went away, and Farmer Rodel called his sister and his wife
into the little back room. After exacting a promise of secrecy, he imparted
to them that a suitor for Rose was coming the next day, a prince
of a man, who had a first-rate farm--in fact, it was none other
than John, the son of Farmer Landfried of Zumarshofen.

     He then gave the further directions which Crappy Zachy had recommended,
     and enjoined the strictest secrecy.
     
     After supper, however, Rose could not refrain from asking Barefoot,
if, in case of her marrying, she would not go with her as her maid;
she would give her double wages, and at the same time she would
then not have to cross the Rhine and work in a factory.

Barefoot gave an evasive answer; for she was not inclined to go with Rose,
knowing that the latter had selfish motives for making the proposal. In
the first place she wanted to boast of the fact that she was going to get
a husband, and, indeed, a first-rate one; and in the second place she
was anxious to get Barefoot to manage her household affairs, about which
she had until then scarcely bothered herself at all. Now Barefoot would
have been very glad to do this for a mistress who was kind to her, but not
for Rose. And besides, if she were to leave her present mistress, she
did not intend to be a servant again anyway, but would work for herself,
even if it were in a factory with her brother.

Barefoot was just going to bed, when her mistress called her and
intrusted the secret to her, adding:

"You have always had patience with Rose, and now while her suitor is here,
have double patience, in order that there may be no disturbance in the
house."
"Yes, but I consider it wrong that she wants to milk the cows just
this once; that's deceiving the worthy man, for she can't milk at all."

"You and I cannot alter the world," said the mistress. "I think it's hard
enough for you to bear your own lot--let others do what they will."
Barefoot lay down, mournfully reflecting how people cheat one another
without the least scruple. She did not know who the suitor was who was
going to be deceived, but she was inwardly sorry for the poor young
man.
And she was doubly bewildered when she thought: "Who knows, perhaps Rose
will be just as much deceived in him as he in her?"
Quite early in the morning, when Barefoot was looking out of her window,
she suddenly started back as if a bullet had struck her forehead.

"Heavens! What is this?" She passed her hands over her eyes hastily, then
opened them wide, and asked herself as if in a dream: "Why, it's the
stranger of the wedding at Endringen! He has come to the village! He
has come to fetch you! No, he knows nothing of you! But he shall know!--but
no, what are you saying!"
He comes nearer and nearer, but does not look up. A fullblossomed
carnation falls from Barefoot's hand, but lands on the valise behind
him; he does not see it, and it lies there in the road. Barefoot
hurries down and recovers the treacherous token. And now the truth comes
over her like the dawning of a terrible day. This is the suitor for
Rose--this is he of whom she spoke last evening. And is this man to be
deceived?

In the barn, kneeling on the clover which she was going to feed the cows,
Barefoot fervently prayed to Heaven to preserve the stranger from
ever marrying Rose. That he should ever be her own, was a thought she
dared not entertain--and yet she could not bear to banish it.

As soon as she had finished milking, she hurried across to Black Marianne;
she wanted to ask her what she should do. But Black Marianne was lying
grievously ill; furthermore she had grown very deaf, and could
hardly understand connected words.

Barefoot did not dare to shout the secret that she had half confided to
her and that the old woman had half guessed, loudly enough for Marianne to
understand it, for people in the street might hear her. And so she came
back, not knowing what to do.

Barefoot had to go out into the fields and stay there the whole day
planting turnips. At every step she hesitated and thought of going home
and telling the stranger everything; but the consciousness of her
subordinate position in the house, as well as a special consideration,
kept her to the duty that she had been called upon to perform.

"If he is foolish and inconsiderate enough," she soliloquized, "to rush
into this affair without a thought, then there's no helping him,
and he deserves no help. And--" she was fain to console herself at
last--"and besides, engaged is not married anyway."
But all day long she was restless and unhappy. In the evening when
she had returned from the fields and was milking the cows, and Rose
was sitting with a full pail beside a cow that had been milked, she
heard the stranger talking with Farmer Rodel in the nearby stable.
They were bargaining about a white horse. But how came the white
horse in the stable?--until then they had had none.
"Who is that singing yonder?" the stranger now asked.
"That's my sister," answered the farmer. And at the word Barefoot
joined in and sang the second voice, powerfully and defiantly, as
if she wanted to compel him to ask who _that_ was over yonder. But
her singing had the disadvantage that it prevented her from hearing
whether or not he did ask. And as Rose went across the yard with
her pail, where the white horse had just been led out for inspection,
the farmer said:
"There, that's my sister. Rose, leave your work, and get something
ready for supper. We have a relative for a guest--I'll bring him
in presently."
"And it was the little one yonder, who sang the second voice?"
inquired the stranger. "Is she a sister of yours, too?"
"No--she, in a way, is an adopted child. My father was her guardian."
The farmer knew very well that charity of this kind conduced to the
credit of a house, and he therefore avoided saying outright that
Barefoot was a maid.
Barefoot felt inwardly glad that the stranger knew something about
her.
"If he is wise," she reflected, "he will be sure to ask me about
Rose.
Then an opportunity will come for me to save him from a misfortune."

Rose brought in the supper, and the stranger was quite surprised
to find that such good fare could be made ready so quickly--he did
not know that it had all been prepared beforehand. Rose apologized
by asking him to make shift with their plain fare, though he was
doubtless accustomed to better things at home. She reckoned, not
without acuteness, that the mention of a well-deserved fame would
be gratifying to any one.
Barefoot was told to remain in the kitchen that day, and to give
all the dishes into Rose's hands. She entreated over and over again:
"For goodness sake, tell me who he is! What's his name?"--but Rose
gave her no answer. The mistress, however, at last solved the mystery
by saying:
"You can tell her now--it's John, the son of Farmer Landfried of
Zumarshofen. Amrei, you've a keepsake from her, haven't you?"
"Yes, yes," replied Barefoot; and she was obliged to sit down by
the hearth, for her knees trembled under her. How wonderful all
this was!
And so he was the son of her first benefactress! "Now he must be
told!
If the whole village stones me for it, I shan't bear it!" she said
to herself.And several other particulars we went over
of retrenchment: and I find I must provide some things to offer that I may
be found studious to lessen the King's charge.  By and by comes my Lord
Bruncker, and then we up to the Duke of York, and there had a hearing of
our usual business, but no money to be heard of--no, not L100 upon the
most pressing service that can be imagined of bringing in the King's
timber from Whittlewood, while we have the utmost want of it, and no
credit to provide it elsewhere, and as soon as we had done with the Duke
of York, Sir W. Coventry did single [out] Sir W. Pen and me, and desired
us to lend the King some money, out of the prizes we have taken by Hogg.
He did not much press it, and we made but a merry answer thereto; but I
perceive he did ask it seriously, and did tell us that there never was so
much need of it in the world as now, we being brought to the lowest
straits that can be in the world.  This troubled me much. By and by Sir W.
Batten told me that he heard how Carcasse do now give out that he will
hang me, among the rest of his threats of him and Pen, which is the first
word I ever heard of the kind from him concerning me. It do trouble me a
little, though I know nothing he can possibly find to fasten on me.
Thence, with my Lord Bruncker to the Duke's Playhouse (telling my wife so
at the 'Change, where I left her), and there saw "Sir Martin Marr-all"
again, which I have now seen three times, and it hath been acted but four
times, and still find it a very ingenious play, and full of variety.  So
home, and to the office, where my eyes would not suffer me to do any thing
by candlelight, and so called my wife and walked in the garden.  She
mighty pressing for a new pair of cuffs, which I am against the laying out
of money upon yet, which makes her angry.  So home to supper and to bed.

21st.  Up, and my wife and I fell out about the pair of cuffs, which she
hath a mind to have to go to see the ladies dancing to-morrow at Betty
Turner's school; and do vex me so that I am resolved to deny them her.
However, by-and-by a way was found that she had them, and I well
satisfied, being unwilling to let our difference grow higher upon so small
an occasion and frowardness of mine.  Then to the office, my Lord Bruncker
and I all the morning answering petitions, which now by a new Council's
order we are commanded to set a day in a week apart for, and we resolve to
do it by turn, my Lord and I one week and two others another. At noon home
to dinner, and then my wife and I mighty pleasant abroad, she to the New
Exchange and I to the Commissioners of the Treasury, who do sit very
close, and are bringing the King's charges as low as they can; but Sir W.
Coventry did here again tell me that he is very serious in what he said to
Sir W. It was the nation's emblem transfigured by the departing rays of
a sun that was entirely palled from view; and on no other object did the
glory fall, in all the broad panorama of mountain ranges and deserts.
Not even upon the staff of the flag--for that, a needle in the distance
at any time, was now untouched by the light and undistinguishable in
the gloom. For a whole hour the weird visitor winked and burned in its
lofty solitude, and still the thousands of uplifted eyes watched it with
fascinated interest. How the people were wrought up! The superstition
grew apace that this was a mystic courier come with great news from the
war--the poetry of the idea excusing and commending it--and on it spread,
from heart to heart, from lip to lip and from street to street, till
there was a general impulse to have out the military and welcome the bright
waif with a salvo of artillery!

And all that time one sorely tried man, the telegraph operator sworn to
official secrecy, had to lock his lips and chain his tongue with a
silence that was like to rend them; for he, and he only, of all the
speculating multitude, knew the great things this sinking sun had seen
that day in the east--Vicksburg fallen, and the Union arms victorious
at Gettysburg!

But for the journalistic monopoly that forbade the slightest revealment of
eastern news till a day after its publication in the California papers,
the glorified flag on Mount Davidson would have been saluted and
re-saluted, that memorable evening, as long as there was a charge of powder
to thunder with; the city would have been illuminated, and every man
that had any respect for himself would have got drunk,--as was
the custom of the country on all occasions of public moment. Even at
this distant day I cannot think of this needlessly marred supreme
opportunity without regret. What a time we might have had!

CHAPTER LVI.
We rumbled over the plains and valleys, climbed the Sierras to the
clouds, and looked down upon summer-clad California. And I will
remark here, in passing, that all scenery in California requires
distance to give it its highest charm.Returning to the
office, did ask whether we might visit Commissioner Pett, to which, I
confess, I have no great mind; and it was answered that he was close
prisoner, and we could not; but the Lieutenant of the Tower would send for
him to his lodgings, if we would: so we put it off to another time.
Returned to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at noon to
Captain Cocke's to dinner; where Lord Bruncker and his Lady, Matt. Wren,
and Bulteale, and Sir Allen Apsly; the last of whom did make good sport,
he being already fallen under the retrenchments of the new Committee, as
he is Master Falconer;

     [The post of Master Falconer was afterwards granted to Charles's son
     by Nell Gwyn, and it is still held by the Duke of St. Albans, as an
     hereditary office.--B.]

which makes him mad, and swears that we are doing that the Parliament
would have done--that is, that we are now endeavouring to destroy one
another.  But it was well observed by some  at the table, that they do not
think this retrenching of the King's charge will be so acceptable to the
Parliament, they having given the King a revenue of so many L100,000's
a-year more than his predecessors had, that he might live in pomp, like a
king.  After dinner with my Lord Bruncker and his mistress to the King's
playhouse, and there saw "The Indian Emperour;" where I find Nell come
again, which I am glad of; but was most infinitely displeased with her
being put to act the Emperour's daughter; which is a great and serious
part, which she do most basely.  The rest of the play, though pretty good,
was not well acted by most of them, methought; so that I took no great
content in it.  But that, that troubled me most was, that Knipp sent by
Moll' to desire to speak to me after the play; and she beckoned to me at
the end of the play, and I promised to come; but it was so late, and I
forced to step to Mrs. Williams's lodgings with my Lord Bruncker and her,
where I did not stay, however, for fear of her shewing me her closet, and
thereby forcing me to give her something; and it was so late, that for
fear of my wife's coming home before me, I was forced to go straight home,
which troubled me.  But, to save her soul, she could not make this clear
to him, and he refused to listen to her.
For it is always thus; at the point where mutual understanding ends, vexation
begins; the inward helplessness translates itself into a feeling of
outward injustice and injury.

Amrei, nevertheless, was almost glad that Damie could remain angry with
her for so many days; for it showed that he was learning how to stand up
against the world and to assert his own will.

Damie, however, soon got a place for himself. He was employed by his
guardian, Farmer Rodel, in the capacity of scarecrow, an occupation which
required him to swing a rattle in the farmer's orchard all day long, for
the purpose of frightening the sparrows away from the early cherries and
vegetable-beds. At first this duty appealed to him as sport, but he soon
grew tired of it and gave it up.

It was a pleasant, but at the same time a laborious office that Amrei had
undertaken. And it often seemed especially hard to her that she could
do nothing to attach the creatures to her; indeed, they were hardly
to be distinguished from one another.

     And it was not at all an idle remark that Black Marianne made to her
     one day when she returned from Mossbrook Wood:
     
     "Animals that live in flocks and herds," she said, "if you take
     each one separately, are always stupid."
     "I think so, too," replied Amrei. "These geese are stupid because
     they know how to do too many different things. They can swim, and
     run, and fly, but they are not really at home either in the
     water, or on land, or in the air. That's what makes them stupid."
     
     "I still maintain," replied Marianne, "that there's the making of
     an old hermit in you."
     The Holderwasen was not one of those lonely, sequestered spots which
     the world of fiction seems to select for its gleaming, glittering
legends.

Through the centre of the Holderwasen ran a road to Endringen, and not
far from it stood the many-colored boundary-stakes with the coats-of-arms
of the two sovereign princes whose dominions came together here. In rustic
vehicles of all kinds the peasants used to drive past, and men, women, and
children kept passing to and fro with hoe, scythe, and sickle. The
_gardes-champêtres_ of the two dominions also used to pass by often,
the barrels of their muskets shining as they approached and gleaming
long after they had passed. Amrei was almost always accosted by the
_garde-champêtre_ of Endringen as she sat by the roadside, and he
often made inquiries of her as to whether this or that person had passed
by. But she was never able to give the desired information--or perhaps
she kept it from him on purpose, on account of the instinctive aversion
the people, and especially the children, of a village have for these
men, whom they invariably look upon as the armed enemies of the human
race, going to and fro in search of some one to devour.

Theisles Manz, who used to sit by the road breaking stones, hardly spoke a
word to Amrei; he would go sulkily from stone-heap to stone-heap, and
his knocking was more incessant than the tapping of the woodpecker in
Mossbrook Wood, and more regular than the piping and chirping of the
grasshoppers in the neighboring meadows and cloverfields.

[And so Amrei spent day after day at Holderwasen, watching the geese
and the passers-by, studying the birds and the flowers and the trees,
dreaming of her father and mother, and wondering what was in store for
Damie and herself. There was a trough of clear, fresh water by the roadside,
and Amrei used to bring a jug with her in order to offer it to thirsty
people who had nothing to drink out of.]
One day a little Bernese wagon, drawn by two handsome white horses, came
rattling along the road; a stout, upland farmer took up almost the entire
seat, which was meant for two. He drew up by the roadside and asked:

"Girlie, have you anything one can drink out of?"
"Yes, certainly--I'll get it for you." And she went off briskly to fetch her
pitcher, which she filled with water.

"Ah!" said the farmer, stopping to take breath after a long draught; and
with the water running down his chin, he continued, talking half into the
jug: "There's after all no water like this in all the world." And again
he raised the jug to his lips, and motioned to Amrei to keep still
while he took a second long, thirsty draught. For it is extremely disagreeable
to be addressed when you are drinking; you swallow hurriedly and feel an
oppression afterward.

The child seemed to realize this, for not until the farmer had handed back
the jug did she say:

"Yes, this is good, wholesome water; and if you would like to water your
horses, it is especially good for them--it won't give them cramps."
"My horses are warm and must not drink now. Do you come from Haldenbrunn,
my girl?"
"Yes indeed."

"And what is your name?"
"Amrei."
"And to whom do you belong?"
[Illustration: AMREI BRISKLY BROUGHT HER PITCHER FILLED WITH WATER]
"To nobody now--my father was Josenhans."
"What! Josenhans, who served at Farmer Rodel's?"
"Yes."
"I knew him well. It was too bad that he died so soon. Wait, child--I'll
give you something." He drew a large leather bag out of his pocket, groped
about in it for a long time, and said at last: "There, take this."
"No, thank you--I don't accept presents--I'll take nothing."
"Take it--you can accept it from me all right. Is Farmer Rodel your
guardian?"
"Yes."
"He might have done something better than make a goose-girl of you.
Well, God keep you."
Away rolled the wagon, and Amrei found herself alone with a coin in her
hand.

"'You can accept it from me all right.'--Who was he that he could say that?
And why didn't he make himself known? Why, it's a groschen, and there's
a bird on it. Well, it won't make him poor, nor me rich."
The rest of that day Amrei did not offer her pitcher to any one else; she
was afraid of having something given to her again. When she got home in
the evening, Black Marianne told her that Farmer Rodel had sent
for her, and that she was to go over to him directly.

Amrei hastened to his house, and as she entered, Farmer Rodel called out
to her:

"What have you been saying to Farmer Landfried?"
"I don't know any Farmer Landfried."
"He was with you at the Holderwasen today, and gave you something."
"I did not know who he was--and here's his money still."
"I've nothing to do with that. Now, say frankly and honestly, you tiresome
child, did I persuade you to be a goose-keeper? If you don't give it up
this very day, I'm no guardian of yours. I won't have such things said
of me!"
"I'll let everybody know that it was not your fault--but give it up is
something I can't do. I must stick to it, at any rate for the rest of
the summer--I must finish what I have begun."
"You're a crabbed creature," said the farmer; and he walked out of the
room. But his wife, who was lying ill in bed, called out:

"You're quite right--stay just as you are. I prophesy that it will go well
with you. A hundred years from now they will be saying in this village of
one who has done well: 'He has the fortune of Brosi's Severin and of
Josenhans' Amrei.' Your dry bread will fall into the honey-pot yet."
Farmer Rodel's sick wife was looked upon as crazy; and, as if frightened by
a specter, Amrei hurried away without a word of reply.

Amrei told Black Marianne that a wonder had happened to her; Farmer
Landfried, whose wife she so often thought about, had spoken to her and
had taken her part in a talk with Farmer Rodel, and had given her
something. She then displayed the piece of money, and Marianne called
out, laughing:

"Yes, I might have guessed myself that it was Farmer Landfried. That's just
like him--to give a poor child a bad groschen!"
"Why is it bad?" asked Amrei; and the tears came into her eyes.

"Why, that's a bird groschen--they're not worth full value--they're
worth only a kreutzer and a half."
"Then he intended to give me only a kreutzer and a half," said Amrei
decidedly.

And here for the first time an inward contrast showed itself between
Amrei and Black Marianne. The latter almost rejoiced at every bad thing
she heard about people, whereas Amrei put a good construction on
everything. She was always happy, and no matter how frequently in her
solitude she burst into tears, she never expected anything, and hence
everything that she received was a surprise to her, and she was all the
more thankful for it.

[Amrei hoped that her meeting with Farmer Landfried would result in his
coming to take her to live with him, but she hoped in vain, for she
watched the geese all summer long, and did not see or hear of him again.]

CHAPTER VI
THE WOMAN WHO BAKED HER OWN BREAD

A woman who leads a solitary, isolated life and bakes bread for herself quite
alone, is called an "Eigenbrötlerin" (a woman who bakes her own bread),
and such a woman, as a rule, has all kinds of peculiarities. No one had
more right or more inclination to be an "Eigenbrötlerin" than did Black
Marianne, although she never had anything to bake; for oatmeal and potatoes
and potatoes and oatmeal were the only things she ever ate.

     She always lived by herself, and did not like to associate with other
     people. Only along toward autumn did she become restless and
     impatient; about that time of the year she would talk to herself a
     great deal, and would often accost people of her own accord, especially
     strangers who happened to be passing through the village.

For she was anxious to find out whether the masons from this or that place
had yet returned home for the winter, and whether they had brought news
of her John.

     While she was once more boiling and washing the linen she had been
     bleaching all summer long, for which purpose she remained up all
     night, she would always be muttering to herself. No one could
     understand exactly what she said, but the burden of it was
     intelligible, for it was always: "That is for me, and that is for
     thee."

She was in the habit of saying twelve Paternosters daily for her
John, but on this particular washing-night they became innumerable.

When the first snow fell she was always especially cheerful; for then
there could be no more outdoor work, and then he would be most likely
to come home. At these times she would often talk to a white hen which she
kept in a coop, telling it that it would have to be killed when John came.
She had repeated these proceedings for many years, and people never ceased
telling her that she was foolish to be thus continually thinking of
the return of her John.

This autumn it would be eighteen years since John had gone away, and
every year John Michael Winkler was reported in the paper as missing, which
would be done until his fiftieth year--he was now in his thirty-sixth.
The story circulated in the village that John had gone among the gipsies.
Once, indeed, his mother had mistaken a young gipsy for him; he was a
man who bore a striking resemblance to her missing son, in that he was
small of stature and had the same dark complexion; and he had seemed
rather pleased at being taken for John. But the mother had put him to
the proof, for she still had John's hymn-book and his confirmation verse;
and, inasmuch as the stranger did not know this verse and could not tell
who were his sponsors, or what had happened to him on the day when
Brosi's Severin arrived with his English wife, and later on when the new
well was dug at the town-hall--inasmuch as he did not satisfy these and
other proofs, he could not be the right man. And yet Marianne used to
give the gipsy a lodging whenever he came to the village, and the children
in the streets used to cry "John!" after him.

John was advertised as being liable to military duty and as a deserter;
and although his mother declared that he would have slipped through
under the measuring-stick as "too short," she knew that he would not escape
punishment if he returned, and inferred that this was the reason why he
did not return. And it was very strange to hear her praying, almost
in the same breath, for the welfare of her son and the death of the reigning
prince; for she had been told that when the sovereign died, his successor
would proclaim a general amnesty for all past offenses.

Every year Marianne used to ask the schoolmaster to give her the
page in the newspaper in which her John was advertised for, and she
always put it with his hymn-book.

     But this year it was a good thing that Marianne could not read, so
     that the schoolmaster could send her another page in place of the
     one she wanted. For a strange rumor was going through the whole
     village; whenever two people stood together talking, they would be
     saying:

"Black Marianne must not be told anything about it. It would kill
her--it would drive her crazy."
For a report, coming from the Ambassador in Paris, had passed through
a number of higher and lower officers, until it reached the Village
Council; it stated that, according to a communication received from
Algiers, John Winkler of Haldenbrunn had perished in that colony
during an outpost skirmish. There was much talk in the village of
the singular fact that so many in high departments should have
concerned themselves so much about the dead John. But this stream
of well-confirmed information was arrested before it had reached
the end of its course.
At a meeting of the Village, Council it was determined that nothing
at all should be said to Black Marianne about it. It would be wrong,
they said, to embitter the last few years of her life by taking her
one comfort away from her.
But instead of keeping the report secret, the first thing the members
of the Council did was to talk of it in their homes, and it was not
long before the whole village knew about it, excepting only Black
Marianne.
Every one, afraid of betraying the secret to her, looked at her
with strange glances; no one addressed her, and even her greetings
were scarcely returned. It was only Marianne's peculiar disposition
that prevented her from noticing this. And indeed, if any one did
speak to her and was drawn on to say anything about John's death,
it was done in the conjectural and soothing way to which she had
been accustomed for years; and Marianne did not believe it now any
more than she had formerly, because nobody ever said anything
definite about the report of his decease.
It would have been better if Amrei had known nothing about it, but
there was a strange, seductive charm in getting as close as possible
to a subject that was forbidden. Accordingly every one spoke to
Amrei of the mournful event, warned her not to tell Black Marianne
anything about it, and asked if the mother had no presentiments or
dreams of her son's death--if his spirit did not haunt the house.
After she heard of it Amrei was always trembling and quaking in
secret; for she alone was always near Black Marianne, and it was
terrible to know something which she was obliged to conceal from
her. Even the people in whose house Black Marianne had rented a
small room could no longer bear to have her near them, and they
showed their sympathy by giving her notice to quit.
But how strangely things are associated in this life! As a result
of this very thing Amrei experienced joy as well as grief--for it
opened up her parents' home to her again. Black Marianne went to
live there, and Amrei, who at first trembled as she went back and
forth in the house, carrying water or making a fire, always thinking
that now her father and mother must come, afterward began gradually
to feel quite at home in it.
She sat spinning day and night, until she had earned enough money
to buy back her parents' cuckoo-clock from Coaly Mathew. Now she
had at least one household article of her own! But the cuckoo had
fared badly among strangers; it had lost half of its voice, and the
other half seemed to stick in its throat--it could only cry "cook"--and
as often as it did that, Amrei would involuntarily add the missing
"oo." 
* * * * *
Black Marianne could not bear to hear the clock cuckoo and fixed
the pendulum so that it would not work, saying that she always had
the time in her head. And it was indeed wonderful how true this
was--at any minute she could tell what time it was, although it was
of very little consequence to her.Then out and to White Hall, to
attend the Council, by their order, with an answer to their demands
touching our advice for the paying off of the seamen, when the ships shall
come in, which answer is worth seeing, shewing the badness of our
condition.  There, when I come, I was forced to stay till past twelve
o'clock, in a crowd of people in the lobby, expecting the hearing of the
great cause of Alderman Barker against my Lord Deputy of Ireland, for his
ill usage in his business of land there; but the King and Council sat so
long, as they neither heard them nor me.  So when they rose, I into the
House, and saw the King and Queen at dinner, and heard a little of their
viallins' musick, and so home, and there to dinner, and in the afternoon
with my Lady Batten, Pen, and her daughter, and my wife, to Mrs. Poole's,
where I mighty merry among the women, and christened the child, a girl,
Elizabeth, which, though a girl, yet my Lady Batten would have me to give
the name.  After christening comes Sir W. Batten, [Sir] W. Pen, and Mr.
Lowther, and mighty merry there, and I forfeited for not kissing the two
godmothers presently after the christening, before I kissed the mother,
which made good mirth; and so anon away, and my wife and I took coach and
went twice round Bartholomew fayre; which I was glad to see again, after
two years missing it by the plague, and so home and to my chamber a
little, and so to supper and to bed.

29th.  Up, and Mr. Moore comes to me, and among other things tells me that
my Lord Crew and his friends take it very ill of me that my Lord
Sandwich's sea-fee should be retrenched, and so reported from this Office,
and I give them no notice of it.  The thing, though I know to be false--at
least, that nothing went from our office towards it--yet it troubled me,
and therefore after the office rose I went and dined with my Lord Crew,
and before dinner I did enter into that discourse, and laboured to satisfy
him; but found, though he said little, yet that he was not yet satisfied;
but after dinner did pray me to go and see how it was, whether true or no.
Did tell me if I was not their friend, they could trust to nobody, and
that he did not forget my service and love to my Lord, and adventures for
him in dangerous times, and therefore would not willingly doubt me now;
but yet asked my pardon if, upon this news, he did begin to fear it.  This
did mightily trouble me: so I away thence to White Hall, but could do
nothing.  So home, and there wrote all my letters, and then, in the
evening, to White Hall again, and there met Sir Richard Browne, Clerk to
the Committee for retrenchments, who assures me no one word was ever yet
mentioned about my Lord's salary.  This pleased me, and I to Sir G.
Carteret, who I find in the same doubt about it, and assured me he saw it
in our original report, my Lord's name with a discharge against it.  This,
though I know to be false, or that it must be a mistake in my clerk, I
went back to Sir R. Browne and got a sight of their paper, and find how
the mistake arose, by the ill copying of it out for the Council from our
paper sent to the Duke of York, which I took away with me and shewed Sir
G. Carteret, and thence to my Lord Crew, and the mistake ended very
merrily, and to all our contents, particularly my own, and so home, and to
the office, and then to my chamber late, and so to supper and to bed.  I
find at Sir G. Carteret's that they do mightily joy themselves in the
hopes of my Lord Chancellor's getting over this trouble; and I make them
believe, and so, indeed, I do believe he will, that my Lord Chancellor is
become popular by it.  I find by all hands that the Court is at this day
all to pieces, every man of a faction of one sort or other, so as it is to
be feared what it will come to.  But that, that pleases me is, I hear
to-night that Mr. Bruncker is turned away yesterday by the Duke of York,
for some bold words he was heard by Colonel Werden to say in the garden,
the day the Chancellor was with the King--that he believed the King would
be hectored out of everything.  For this the Duke of York, who all say
hath been very strong for his father-in-law at this trial, hath turned him
away: and every body, I think, is glad of it; for he was a pestilent
rogue, an atheist, that would have sold his King and country for 6d.
almost, so covetous and wicked a rogue he is, by all men's report.  But
one observed to me, that there never was the occasion of men's holding
their tongues at Court and everywhere else as there is at this day, for
nobody knows which side will be uppermost.

30th.  Up, and to White Hall, where at the Council Chamber I hear Barker's
business is like to come to a hearing to-day, having failed the last day.
I therefore to Westminster to see what I could do in my 'Chequer business
about Tangier, and finding nothing to be done, returned, and in the Lobby
staid till almost noon expecting to hear Barker's business, but it was not
called, so I come away.  Here I met with Sir G. Downing, who tells me of
Sir W. Pen's offering to lend L500; and I tell him of my L300, which he
would have me to lend upon the credit of the latter part of the Act;
saying, that by that means my 10 per cent. will continue to me the longer.
But I understand better, and will do it upon the L380,000, which will come
to be paid the sooner; there being no delight in lending money now, to be
paid by the King two years hence. But here he and Sir William Doyly were
attending the Council as Commissioners for sick and wounded, and
prisoners: and they told me their business, which was to know how we shall
do to release our prisoners; for it seems the Dutch have got us to agree
in the treaty, as they fool us in anything, that the dyet of the prisoners
on both sides shall be paid for, before they be released; which they have
done, knowing ours to run high, they having more prisoners of ours than we
have of theirs; so that they are able and most ready to discharge the debt
of theirs, but we are neither able nor willing to do that for ours, the
debt of those in Zealand only, amounting to above L5000 for men taken in
the King's own ships, besides others taken in merchantmen, which expect,
as is usual, that the King should redeem them; but I think he will not, by
what Sir G. Downing says.  This our prisoners complain of there; and say
in their letters, which Sir G. Downing shewed me, that they have made a
good feat that they should be taken in the service of the King, and the
King not pay for their victuals while prisoners for him.  But so far they
are from doing thus with their men, as we do to discourage ours, that I
find in the letters of some of our prisoners there, which he shewed me,
that they have with money got our men, that they took, to work and carry
their ships home for them; and they have been well rewarded, and released
when they come into Holland: which is done like a noble, brave, and wise
people.  Having staid out my time that I thought fit for me to return
home, I home and there took coach and with my wife to Walthamstow; to Sir
W. Pen's, by invitation, the first time I have been there, and there find
him and all their guests (of our office only) at dinner, which was a very
bad dinner, and everything suitable, that I never knew people in my life
that make their flutter, that do things so meanly.  I was sick to see it,
but was merry at some ridiculous humours of my Lady Batten, who, as being
an ill-bred woman, would take exceptions at anything any body said, and I
made good sport at it.  After dinner into the garden and wilderness, which
is like the rest of the house, nothing in order, nor looked after. By and
by comes newes that my Lady Viner was come to see Mrs. Lowther, which I
was glad of, and all the pleasure I had here was to see her, which I did,
and saluted her, and find she is pretty, though not so eminently so as
people talked of her, and of very pretty carriage and discourse.  I sat
with them and her an hour talking and pleasant, and then slunk away alone
without taking leave, leaving my wife there to come home with them, and I
to Bartholomew fayre, to walk up and down; and there, among other things,
find my Lady Castlemayne at a puppet-play, "Patient Grizill,"

     [The well-known story, first told by Boccaccio, then by Petrarca,
     afterwards by Chaucer, and which has since become proverbial.  Tom
     Warton, writing about 1770, says, "I need not mention that it is to
     this day represented in England, on a stage of the lowest species,
     and of the highest antiquity: I mean at a puppet show" ("Hist. of
     English Poetry," sect. xv.).--B.]

and the street full of people expecting her coming out.  I confess I did
wonder at her courage to come abroad, thinking the people would abuse her;
but they, silly people! do not know her work she makes, and therefore
suffered her with great respect to take coach, and she away, without any
trouble at all, which I wondered at, I confess.  I only walked up and
down, and, among others, saw Tom Pepys, the turner, who hath a shop, and I
think lives in the fair when the fair is not.  I only asked how he did as
he stood in the street, and so up and down sauntering till late and then
home, and there discoursed with my wife of our bad entertainment to-day,
and so to bed.  I met Captain Cocke to-day at the Council Chamber and took
him with me to Westminster, who tells me that there is yet expectation
that the Chancellor will lose the Seal, and that he is sure that the King
hath said it to him who told it him, and he fears we shall be soon broke
in pieces, and assures me that there have been high words between the Duke
of York and Sir W. Coventry, for his being so high against the Chancellor;
so as the Duke of York would not sign some papers that he brought, saying
that he could not endure the sight of him: and that Sir W. Coventry
answered, that what he did was in obedience to the King's commands; and
that he did not think any man fit to serve a Prince, that did not know how
to retire and live a country life.  This is all I hear.

31st.  At the office all the morning; where, by Sir W. Pen, I do hear that
the Seal was fetched away to the King yesterday from the Lord Chancellor
by Secretary Morrice; which puts me into a great horror, to have it done
after so much debate and confidence that it would not be done at last.
When we arose I took a turn with Lord Bruncker in the garden, and he tells
me that he hath of late discoursed about this business with Sir W.
Coventry, who he finds is the great man in the doing this business of the
Chancellor's, and that he do persevere in it, though against the Duke of
York's opinion, to which he says that the Duke of York was once of the
same mind, and if he hath thought fit since, for any reason, to alter his
mind, he hath not found any to alter his own, and so desires to be
excused, for it is for the King's and kingdom's good.  And it seems that
the Duke of York himself was the first man that did speak to the King of
this, though he hath since altered his mind; and that W. Coventry did tell
the Duke of York that he was not fit to serve a Prince that did not know
how to retire, and live a private life; and that he was ready for that, if
it be his and the King's pleasure.  After having wrote my letters at the
office in the afternoon, I in the evening to White Hall to see how matters
go, and there I met with Mr. Ball, of the Excise-office, and he tells me
that the Seal is delivered to Sir Orlando Bridgeman; the man of the whole
nation that is the best spoken of, and will please most people; and
therefore I am mighty glad of it.  He was then at my Lord Arlington's,
whither I went, expecting to see him come out; but staid so long, and Sir
W. Coventry coming thither, whom I had not a mind should see me there idle
upon a post-night, I went home without seeing him; but he is there with
his Seal in his hand.  So I home, took up my wife, whom I left at
Unthanke's, and so home, and after signing my letters to bed.  This day,
being dissatisfied with my wife's learning so few songs of Goodgroome, I
did come to a new bargain with him to teach her songs at so much, viz.;
10s. a song, which he accepts of, and will teach her.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Beginnings of discontents take so much root between us
     Eat some of the best cheese-cakes that ever I eat in my life
     Hugged, it being cold now in the mornings .  .  .  .
     I would not enquire into anything, but let her talk
     Ill-bred woman, would take exceptions at anything any body said
     Kingdom will fall back again to a commonwealth
     Little content most people have in the peace
     Necessary, and yet the peace is so bad in its terms
     Never laughed so in all my life.  I laughed till my head ached
     Nobody knows which side will be uppermost
     Sermon ended, and the church broke up, and my amours ended also
     Spends his time here most, playing at bowles
     Take pins out of her pocket to prick me if I should touch her
     The gates of the City shut, it being so late
     They want where to set their feet, to begin to do any thing
     Troubled to think what trouble a rogue may without cause give
     Wise men do prepare to remove abroad what they have


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                SEPTEMBER
                                   1667

September 1st (Lord's day).  Up, and betimes by water from the Tower, and
called at the Old Swan for a glass of strong water, and sent word to have
little Michell and his wife come and dine with us to-day; and so, taking
in a gentleman and his lady that wanted a boat, I to Westminster. Setting
them on shore at Charing Cross, I to Mrs. Martin's, where I had two pair
of cuffs which I bespoke, and there did sit and talk with her .  .  .  .
and here I did see her little girle my goddaughter, which will be
pretty, and there having staid a little I away to Creed's chamber, and
when he was ready away to White Hall, where I met with several people and
had my fill of talk.  Our new Lord-keeper, Bridgeman, did this day, the
first time, attend the King to chapel with his Seal. Sir H. Cholmly tells
me there are hopes that the women will also have a rout, and particularly
that my Lady Castlemayne is coming to a composition with the King to be
gone; but how true this is, I know not. Blancfort is made Privy-purse to
the Duke of York; the Attorney-general is made Chief justice, in the room
of my Lord Bridgeman; the Solicitor-general is made Attorney-general; and
Sir Edward Turner made Solicitor-general.  It is pretty to see how strange
every body looks, nobody knowing whence this arises; whether from my Lady
Castlemayne, Bab. May, and their faction; or from the Duke of York,
notwithstanding his great appearance of defence of the Chancellor; or from
Sir William Coventry, and some few with him.  But greater changes are yet
expected.  So home and by water to dinner, where comes Pelting and young
Michell and his wife, whom I have not seen a great while, poor girle, and
then comes Mr. Howe, and all dined with me very merry, and spent all the
afternoon, Pelting, Howe, and I, and my boy, singing of Lock's response to
the Ten Commandments, which he hath set very finely, and was a good while
since sung before the King, and spoiled in the performance, which
occasioned his printing them for his vindication, and are excellent good.
They parted, in the evening my wife and I to walk in the garden and there
scolded a little, I being doubtful that she had received a couple of fine
pinners (one of point de Gesne), which I feared she hath from some [one]
or other of a present; but, on the contrary, I find she hath bought them
for me to pay for them, without my knowledge.  This do displease me much;
but yet do so much please me better than if she had received them the
other way, that I was not much angry, but fell to other discourse, and so
to my chamber, and got her to read to me for saving of my eyes, and then,
having got a great cold, I know not how, I to bed and lay ill at ease all
the night.

2nd.  This day is kept in the City as a publick fast for the fire this day
twelve months: but I was not at church, being commanded, with the rest, to
attend the Duke of York; and, therefore, with Sir J. Minnes to St.
James's, where we had much business before the Duke of York, and observed
all things to be very kind between the Duke of York and W. Coventry, which
did mightily joy me.  When we had done, Sir W. Coventry called me down
with him to his chamber, and there told me that he is leaving the Duke of
York's service, which I was amazed at.  But he tells me that it is not
with the least unkindness on the Duke of York's side, though he expects,
and I told him he was in the right, it will be interpreted otherwise,
because done just at this time; "but," says he, "I did desire it a good
while since, and the Duke of York did, with much entreaty, grant it,
desiring that I would say nothing of it, that he might have time and
liberty to choose his successor, without being importuned for others whom
he should not like:" and that he hath chosen Mr. Wren, which I am glad of,
he being a very ingenious man; and so Sir W. Coventry says of him, though
he knows him little; but particularly commends him for the book he writ in
answer to "Harrington's Oceana," which, for that reason, I intend to buy.
He tells me the true reason is, that he, being a man not willing to
undertake more business than he can go through, and being desirous to have
his whole time to spend upon the business of the Treasury, and a little
for his own ease, he did desire this of the Duke of York.  He assures me
that the kindness with which he goes away from the Duke of York is one of
the greatest joys that ever he had in the world.  I used some freedom with
him, telling him how the world hath discoursed of his having offended the
Duke of York, about the late business of the Chancellor.  He do not deny
it, but says that perhaps the Duke of York might have some reason for it,
he opposing him in a thing wherein he was so earnest but tells me, that,
notwithstanding all that, the Duke of York does not now, nor can blame
him; for he tells me that he was the man that did propose the removal of
the Chancellor; and that he did still persist in it, and at this day
publickly owns it, and is glad of it; but that the Duke of York knows that
he did first speak of it to the Duke of York, before he spoke to any
mortal creature besides, which was fair dealing: and the Duke of York was
then of the same mind with him, and did speak of it to the King; though
since, for reasons best known to himself, he was afterwards altered.  I
did then desire to know what was the great matter that grounded his desire
of the Chancellor's removal?  He told me many things not fit to be spoken,
and yet not any thing of his being unfaithful to the King; but, 'instar
omnium', he told me, that while he was so great at the Council-board, and
in the administration of matters, there was no room for any body to
propose any remedy to what was amiss, or to compass any thing, though
never so good for the kingdom, unless approved of by the Chancellor, he
managing all things with that greatness which now will be removed, that
the King may have the benefit of others' advice.  I then told him that the
world hath an opinion that he hath joined himself with my Lady
Castlemayne's faction in this business; he told me, he cannot help it, but
says they are in an errour: but for first he will never, while he lives,
truckle under any body or any faction, but do just as his own reason and
judgment directs; and, when he cannot use that freedom, he will have
nothing to do in public affairs but then he added, that he never was the
man that ever had any discourse with my Lady Castlemayne, or with others
from her, about this or any public business, or ever made her a visit, or
at least not this twelvemonth, or been in her lodgings but when called on
any business to attend the King there, nor hath had any thing to do in
knowing her mind in this business.  He ended all with telling me that he
knows that he that serves a Prince must expect, and be contented to stand,
all fortunes, and be provided to retreat, and that that he is most willing
to do whenever the King shall please.  And so we parted, he setting me
down out of his coach at Charing Cross, and desired me to tell Sir W. Pen
what he had told me of his leaving the Duke of York's service, that his
friends might not be the last that know it. I took a coach and went
homewards; but then turned again, and to White Hall, where I met with many
people; and, among other things, do learn that there is some fear that
Mr. Bruncker is got into the King's favour, and will be cherished there;
which will breed ill will between the King and Duke of York, he lodging at
this time in White Hall since he was put away from the Duke of York: and
he is great with Bab. May, my Lady Castlemayne, and that wicked crew.  But
I find this denied by Sir G. Carteret, who tells me that he is sure he
hath no kindness from the King; that the King at first, indeed, did
endeavour to persuade the Duke of York from putting him away; but when,
besides this business of his ill words concerning his Majesty in the
business of the Chancellor, he told him that he hath had, a long time, a
mind to put him away for his ill offices, done between him and his wife,
the King held his peace, and said no more, but wished him to do what he
pleased with him; which was very noble.  I met with Fenn; and he tells me,
as I do hear from some others, that the business of the Chancellor's had
proceeded from something of a mistake, for the Duke of York did first tell
the King that the Chancellor had a desire to be eased of his great
trouble; and that the King, when the Chancellor come to him, did wonder to
hear him deny it, and the Duke of York was forced to deny to the King that
ever he did tell him so in those terms: but the King did answer that he
was sure that he did say some such thing to him; but, however, since it
had gone so far, did desire him to be contented with it, as a thing very
convenient for him as well as for himself (the King), and so matters
proceeded, as we find. Now it is likely the Chancellor might, some time or
other, in a compliment or vanity, say to the Duke of York, that he was
weary of this burden, and I know not what; and this comes of it.  Some
people, and myself among them, are of good hope from this change that
things are reforming; but there are others that do think but that it is a
hit of chance, as all other our greatest matters are, and that there is no
general plot or contrivance in any number of people what to do next,
though, I believe, Sir W. Coventry may in himself have further designs;
and so that, though other changes may come, yet they shall be accidental
and laid upon [not] good principles of doing good.  Mr. May shewed me the
King's new buildings, in order to their having of some old sails for the
closing of the windows this winter.  I dined with Sir G. Carteret, with
whom dined Mr. Jack Ashburnham and Dr. Creeton, who I observe to be a most
good man and scholar.  In discourse at dinner concerning the change of
men's humours and fashions touching meats, Mr. Ashburnham told us, that he
remembers since the only fruit in request, and eaten by the King and Queen
at table as the best fruit, was the Katharine payre, though they knew at
the time other fruits of France and our own country.  After dinner comes
in Mr. Townsend; and there I was witness of a horrid rateing, which Mr.
Ashburnham, as one of the Grooms of the King's Bedchamber, did give him
for want of linen for the King's person; which he swore was not to be
endured, and that the King would not endure it, and that the King his
father, would have hanged his Wardrobe-man should he have been served so
the King having at this day no handkerchers, and but three bands to his
neck, he swore.  Mr. Townsend answered want of money, and the owing of the
linen-draper L5000; and that he hath of late got many rich things
made--beds, and sheets, and saddles, and all without money, and he can go
no further but still this old man, indeed, like an old loving servant, did
cry out for the King's person to be neglected. But, when he was gone,
Townsend told me that it is the grooms taking away the King's linen at the
quarter's end, as their fees, which makes this great want: for, whether
the King can get it or no, they will run away at the quarter's end with
what he hath had, let the King get more as he can. All the company gone,
Sir G. Carteret and I to talk: and it is pretty to observe how already he
says that he did always look upon the Chancellor indeed as his friend,
though he never did do him any service at all, nor ever got any thing by
him, nor was he a man apt, and that, I think, is true, to do any man any
kindness of his own nature; though I do know that he was believed by all
the world to be the greatest support of Sir G. Carteret with the King of
any man in England: but so little is now made of it!  He observes that my
Lord Sandwich will lose a great friend in him; and I think so too, my Lord
Hinchingbroke being about a match calculated purely out of respect to my
Lord Chancellor's family.  By and by Sir G. Carteret, and Townsend, and I,
to consider of an answer to the Commissioners of the Treasury about my
Lord Sandwich's profits in the Wardrobe; which seem, as we make them, to
be very small, not L1000 a-year; but only the difference in measure at
which he buys and delivers out to the King, and then 6d. in the pound from
the tradesmen for what money he receives for him; but this, it is
believed, these Commissioners will endeavour to take away.  "I have
nobody but myself to give account of my actions to; I am an orphan."
Hand in hand the two went out of the dancing-room. Barefoot heard several
people whispering and tittering behind her, but she kept her eyes fixed
on the ground. She wondered if she had not ventured too far after
all.

In the fields, where the first ears of wheat were beginning to sprout and
still lay half concealed in their green sheaths, the two stopped and stood
looking at each other in silence. For a long time neither said a word. But
finally it was the man who broke the silence, by saying, half to
himself:

"I wonder how it is that one, on first sight, can be so--so--I don't
know--so confidential with a person? How is it one can read what is written
in another's face?" "Now we have set a poor soul free," said Amrei;
"for you know, when two people think the same thought at the same time,
they are said to set a soul free. And I was thinking the very words
you just spoke."
"Indeed? And do you know why?"
"Yes."
"Will you tell me?"
"Why not? Look you; I have been a goose-keeper--"
At these words the stranger started again; but he pretended that something
had fallen into his eye, and began to rub that organ vigorously, while
Barefoot went on, undismayed:

"Look you; when one sits or lies alone out in the fields all day, one
thinks of hundreds of things, and some of them are strange thoughts indeed.
Just try it yourself, and you will certainly find it so. Every fruit-tree,
if you look at it as a whole, has the appearance of the fruit it bears.
Take the apple-tree; does it not look, spread out broad, and, as it were,
in round pieces, like the apple itself? And the same is true of the
pear-tree and the cherry-tree, if only you look at them in the right way.
Look what a long trunk the cherry-tree has--like the stem of a cherry.
And so I think--"

"Well, what do you think?"
"You'll laugh at me; but just as the fruit-trees look like the fruits they
bear, so is it also with people; one can tell what they are at once by
looking at them. But the trees, to be sure, always have honest faces,
while people can dissemble theirs. But I am talking nonsense, am I not?"

"No, you have not kept geese for nothing," said the lad; and there was
a strange mixture of feelings in the tone of his voice. "I like to talk
with you. I should give you a kiss, if I were not afraid of doing what is
wrong."
Barefoot trembled all over. She stooped to break off a flower, but
did not break it. There was a long pause, and then the lad went on: "We
shall most likely never meet again, and so it is best as it is."
Hand in hand the two went back to the dancing-room. There they danced once
more together without saying a word to each other, and when the dance
was over, the young man again led her to the table, and said:
"Now I shall say good-by.

     But first you must get your breath, and then drink once more."

                   He handed her the glass, and
                    when she set it down again, he said:
"You must drain it, for my sake, to the very bottom."

     Amrei drank and drank; and when the glass was empty in her hand,
     she looked around--the stranger was gone! She went down and stood
     in front of the house; and there she saw him again, not far away,
     riding off on his white horse; but he did not look back.

The mist hung over the valley like a veil of clouds, and the sun had
already set. Barefoot said to herself, almost aloud:

"I wish tomorrow would never come, but that it would always be
today--always today!" And then she stood still, lost in dreams.

The night came on quickly. The moon, looking like a thin sickle, was resting
on the summits of the dark mountains. One little Bernese wagon after
another drove away. Barefoot went to find her master's chaise, to which
the horses were now being hitched. Then Rose came and told her brother
that she had promised some young people of her village to go home in company
with them. And it was understood as a matter of course that the farmer could
not drive home alone with the maid. And so the little Bernese wagon went
rattling off toward home with a single occupant.

Rose must have seen Barefoot, but she acted as if she were not there. And
so Barefoot once more wandered forth along the road on which the stranger
had departed. Whither could he have gone? How many hundred villages and
hamlets there were along that road, and to which one was he bound? Barefoot
found the place again where he had first accosted her in the morning;
she repeated aloud to herself his salutation, and the answer she had given
him. And once more she sat down behind the hazel hedge, where in the
morning she had slept and dreamt. A yellowhammer sat on a slender spray,
and its six notes sounded just as if it were saying:
"And why art thou still here? And why art thou still here?"
Barefoot had lived through a whole life's history in this one day. Could
it be but a single day? She went back again to the dance, but did not
go up to the room itself. And then she started out homeward alone.
She had gone almost halfway to Haldenbrunn, when she suddenly turned back;
she seemed unable to tear herself away from the place where she had been
so happy. And she said to herself that it was not right for her to go home
alone anyway; she should go in company with the young men and girls from
her village. When she arrived in front of the tavern at Endringen again,
she found several people from her village already assembled there.

"Ah, are you here, too, Barefoot?" was the only greeting she received.

And now there was great confusion; for many who had been the first to urge
going home, were still upstairs dancing. And now some strange lads came
and begged and besought them to stay for just one more dance; and they got
their way. Barefoot, too, went upstairs, but only to look on.
At last the cry was: "Whoever dances now shall be left behind;" and after
a great deal of difficulty and much rushing to and fro, the Haldenbrunn
contingent was finally assembled in front of the house. Some of the musicians
escorted them through the village, and many a sleepy father came to the
window to see what was going on, while now and then a woman, who had once
been one of the merry-makers herself, but who had married and so culminated
her days of frivolity, would appear at a window and cry: "A pleasant
journey home!"
The night was dark, and large pine fagots had been provided for torches;
and the lads who carried them danced about and shouted with joy.
Scarcely had the musicians gone back, and scarcely had the party left Endringen
well behind, when the cry was: "Put out the torches! They only dazzle us!"
And two soldiers in particular, who were then off duty and had joined
the party, made fun of the torches, in proud consciousness of their
sabres. Accordingly the torches were extinguished in a ditch. And now
they began to miss this or that boy, and this or that girl, and when their
comrades called out to them, they would answer from a distance.

Barefoot walked behind the rest, a good distance from those of her own
village. They let her alone, and that was the greatest kindness they could
have done her; she was with the people of her own village, and yet she
was alone. She often looked around at the fields and the woods; how wonderful
it all looked in the night!--so strange and yet so familiar!
The whole world seemed as strange to her as she had become to
herself.
And as she went along, step by step, as if she were being pulled or pushed,
without realizing that she was moving, so did her thoughts move, involuntarily,
in her mind; they seemed to be whirling on, and she could not grasp
or control them--she did not know what it meant.

Her cheeks glowed as if every star in the heavens were a heat-radiating
sun, and her very heart burned within her.

And now, just as if she had begun it, as if she herself had struck up
the tune, her companions ahead began to sing the song that had risen to
her lips that morning:

"There were two lovers in Allgau, Who loved each other so dear;
And the young lad went away to war; When comest thou home again?

Ah, that I cannot, love, tell thee, What year, or what day, or what
hour!"

And then the "Good Night" song was sung; and Amrei, in the distance, joined
in:

"A fair 'good night' to thee, love, farewell!
When all are sleeping Then watch I'm keeping, So wearily.

A fair "good night" to thee, love, farewell!
Now I must leave thee, And joy be with thee, Till I come back.

And when I come back, then I'll come to thee, And then I'll kiss thee,
That tastes so sweetly,-- Love, thou art mine!

Love, thou art mine, and I am thine, And that doth content me, And shall not
repent thee, Love, fare thee well!"
At last they came to the village, where one group after another detached
itself. Barefoot paused under the tree by her father's house, and stood
there for a long time in dreamy meditation. She would have liked to
go in and tell Black Marianne everything, but gave up the idea. Why should
she disturb the old woman's rest at night? What good would it do? She went
quietly home, where everybody was asleep. When she finally entered the
house, everything seemed so much more strange to her than it had outside--so
odd, so out of keeping, so out of place. "Why do you come home? What do you
want here?" There seemed to be a strange questioning in every sound; when
the dog barked, when the stairs creaked, when the cows lowed in the
stable--they all seemed to be questioning her: "Who's that coming home?
Who's that?" And when at length she found herself in her room, she sat
down quietly and stared at the light. Suddenly she got up, seized the lamp,
held it up to the glass, and looked at her face; she felt inclined to
ask herself: "Who's that?"--"And thus," she thought, "he saw me--this is
how I looked. He must have been pleased with something about you, or
else why did he look at you so?"
There arose in her a quiet feeling of contentment, which was heightened by
the thought:

"Well, for once you have been looked upon as a person; until now you
have been nothing but a servant, a convenience for others. Good night,
Amrei--this has been a day indeed! But even this day must come to an end
at last."

CHAPTER XI
WHAT THE OLD SONG SAYS

[The memory of the handsome stranger, and of the dance, and of all the
new and wonderful emotions that had filled her heart on that eventful
day, to Amrei was a sacred one indeed; for weeks she thought of it by day
and dreamed of it by night. The jealous, sneering remarks of Rose, and the
half-serious, half-jesting utterances of other people, who had been present
at the wedding, meant nothing to her; she went about her work all the more
diligently and ignored it all. Black Marianne could offer her no encouragement
in her hope that the stranger would some day appear again and claim her;
she had waited all her life for her John, and would continue to wait
until she died.]
Spring had come again. Amrei was standing beside the flowers in her window
when a bee came flying up and began sucking at an open blossom.

"Yes, so it is," thought Barefoot; "a girl is like a plant; she grows up
in one place, and cannot go out into the world and seek--she must wait
until something comes flying to her."
"Were I a little bird, And had a pair of wings, I'd fly to thee; But
since I can't do that, Here must I be.

Though I am far from thee, In dreams I am with thee, Thou art mine own; But
when I wake again, I am alone.

No hour at night doth pass, But that my heart doth wake, And think of
thee,--"
Thus sang Amrei. It was wonderful how all songs seemed now to apply to her
own life. And how many thousands of people have already sung those
songs from the depths of their souls, and how many thousands more are yet
to sing them!

Ye who yearn and who at last embrace a heart, ye embrace along with it
the love of all those who have ever been, or who ever shall be.

CHAPTER XII
HE IS COME

One Sunday afternoon Barefoot, according to her custom, was leaning against
the door-post of the house and gazing dreamily out before her, when Coaly
Mathew's grandson came running up the street, beckoning to her from
afar and crying:

"He is come, Barefoot! He is come!"
Barefoot felt her knees tremble, and she cried in a broken voice:

"Where is he? Where?"
"At my grandfather's, in Mossbrook Wood!"
"Where? Who? Who sent you?"
"Your Damie--he's down yonder in the woods."
Barefoot was obliged to sit down on the stone bench in front of the house;
but only for a minute. Then she pulled herself together and stood up
stiffly with the words:

"My brother? My Damie?"
"Yes, Barefoot's Damie," said the boy, bluntly; "and he promised that you
would give me a kreutzer if I would run and tell you. So now give me a
kreutzer."
"My Damie will give you three."
"Oh, no!" said the boy, "he's been whimpering to my grandfather because he
hadn't a kreutzer left."
"I haven't one now either," said Barefoot, "but I'll promise you
one."
She went quickly into the house and begged the second maid to milk the
cows for her that evening, in case she should not get back, for she
had an errand to do immediately. Then, with a heart now full of
anger at Damie, now full of sorrow for him and his awkwardness,
again full of vexation on account of his coming back, and then again
full of self-reproach that she should be going to meet her only
brother in such a way, Barefoot wended her way out into the fields
and down the valley to Mossbrook Wood.
There was no mistaking the way to Coaly Mathew's, even if one were
to wander off from the foot-path. The smell of burning charcoal led
one to him infallibly.
How the birds are rejoicing in the trees! And beneath them a sad
maiden is passing, thinking how unhappy it must make her brother
to see all these things again, and how badly things must have gone
with him, if he had no other resource but to come home and live
upon her earnings.
"Other sisters are helped by their brothers," she thought to herself,
"and I--but I shall show you this time, Damie, that you must stay
where I put you, and that you dare not stir!"
Such were Barefoot's thoughts as she hurried along; and at last she
arrived at Coaly Mathew's. But there she saw only Coaly Mathew
himself, who was sitting by the kiln in front of his log cabin, and
holding his wooden pipe with both hands as he smoked it; for a
charcoal-burner is like a charcoal kiln, in that he is always
smoking.
"Has anybody been playing a trick on me?" Barefoot asked herself.
"Oh, that would be shameful! What have I done to people that they
should make a fool of me? But I shall soon find out who did it--and
he shall pay for it."
With clenched fists and a flaming face she stood before Coaly Mathew,
who hardly raised his eyes to her--much less did he speak. As long
as the sun was shining he was almost always mute, and only at night,
when nobody could look into his eyes, did he like to talk, and then
he spoke freely.
Barefoot gazed for a minute at the charcoal-burner's black face,
and then asked impatiently:

"Where is my Damie?"
The old man shook his head. Then Barefoot asked again with a stamp
of her foot:

"Is my Damie with you?"
The old man unfolded his hands and spread them right and left,
implying thereby that he was not there.
"Who was it that sent to me?" asked Barefoot, still more
impatiently.
"Can't you speak?"
The charcoal-burner pointed with his right thumb toward the side
where a foot-path wound around the mountain.
"For Heaven's sake, do say something!" cried Barefoot, fairly weeping
with indignation; "only a single word! Is my Damie here, or where
is he?" 
At last the old man said:
"He's there--gone to meet you along the path." And then, as if he
had said too much, he pressed his lips together and walked off
around the kiln.
Barefoot now stood there, laughing scornfully and, at the same time,
sadly over her brother's simplicity.
"He sends to me and doesn't stay in the place where I can find him;
now if I go up that way, why should he expect me to come by the
foot-path?
That has doubtless occurred to him now, and he'll be going some
other way--so that I shall never find him, and we shall be wandering
about each other as in a fog."
Barefoot sat down quietly on the stump of a tree. There was a fire
within her as within the kiln, only the flames could not leap
forth--the fire could merely smolder within. The birds were singing,
the forest rustling--but what is all that when there is no clear,
responsive note in the heart? Barefoot now remembered, as in a
dream, how she had once cherished thoughts of love. What right had
she to let such thoughts rise within her? Had she not misery enough
in herself and in her brother? And this thought of love seemed to
her now like the remembrance, in winter, of a bright summer's day.
One merely remembers how sunny and warm it was--but that is all.I to Sir G. Carteret's to dinner; where Mr. Cofferer Ashburnham;
who told a good story of a prisoner's being condemned at Salisbury for a
small matter.  While he was on the bench with his father-in-law, judge
Richardson, and while they were considering to transport him to save his
life, the fellow flung a great stone at the judge, that missed him, but
broke through the wainscoat. Upon this, he had his hand cut off, and was
hanged presently!  Here was a gentleman, one Sheres, one come lately from
my Lord Sandwich, with an express; but, Lord!  I was almost ashamed to see
him, lest he should know that I have not yet wrote one letter to my Lord
since his going.  I had no discourse with him, but after dinner Sir G.
Carteret and I to talk about some business of his, and so I to Mrs.
Martin, where was Mrs. Burroughs, and also fine Mrs. Noble, my partner in
the christening of Martin's child, did come to see it, and there we sat
and talked an hour, and then all broke up and I by coach home, and there
find Mr. Pelling and Howe, and we to sing and good musique till late, and
then to supper, and Howe lay at my house, and so after supper to bed with
much content, only my mind a little troubled at my late breach of vowes,
which however I will pay my forfeits, though the badness of my eyes,
making me unfit to read or write long, is my excuse, and do put me upon
other pleasures and employment which I should refrain from in observation
of my vowes.

9th.  Up; and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon comes
Creed to dine with me.  After dinner, he and I and my wife to the
Bear-Garden, to see a prize fought there.  But, coming too soon, I left
them there and went on to White Hall, and there did some business with the
Lords of the Treasury; and here do hear, by Tom Killigrew and Mr. Progers,
that for certain news is come of Harman's having spoiled nineteen of
twenty-two French ships, somewhere about the Barbadoes, I think they said;
but wherever it is, it is a good service, and very welcome.  Here I fell
in talk with Tom Killigrew about musick, and he tells me that he will
bring me to the best musick in England (of which, indeed, he is master),
and that is two Italians and Mrs. Yates, who, he says, is come to sing the
Italian manner as well as ever he heard any: says that Knepp won't take
pains enough, but that she understands her part so well upon the stage,
that no man or woman in the House do the like.  Thence I by water to the
Bear-Garden, where now the yard was full of people, and those most of them
seamen, striving by force to get in, that I was afeard to be seen among
them, but got into the ale-house, and so by a back-way was put into the
bull-house, where I stood a good while all alone among the bulls, and was
afeard I was among the bears, too; but by and by the door opened, and I
got into the common pit; and there, with my cloak about my face, I stood
and saw the prize fought, till one of them, a shoemaker, was so cut in
both his wrists that he could not fight any longer, and then they broke
off: his enemy was a butcher.  The sport very good, and various humours to
be seen among the rabble that is there.  Thence carried Creed to White
Hall, and there my wife and I took coach and home, and both of us to Sir
W. Batten's, to invite them to dinner on Wednesday next, having a whole
buck come from Hampton Court, by the warrant which Sir Stephen Fox did
give me.  And so home to supper and to bed, after a little playing on the
flageolet with my wife, who do outdo therein whatever I expected of her.

10th.  Up, and all the morning at the Office, where little to do but
bemoan ourselves under the want of money; and indeed little is, or can be
done, for want of money, we having not now received one penny for any
service in many weeks, and none in view to receive, saving for paying of
some seamen's wages.  At noon sent to by my Lord Bruncker to speak with
him, and it was to dine with him and his Lady Williams (which I have not
now done in many months at their own table) and Mr. Wren, who is come to
dine with them, the first time he hath been at the office since his being
the Duke of York's Secretary.  Here we sat and eat and talked and of some
matters of the office, but his discourse is as yet but weak in that
matter, and no wonder, he being new in it, but I fear he will not go about
understanding with the impatience that Sir W. Coventry did.  Having dined,
I away, and with my wife and Mercer, set my wife down at the 'Change, and
the other at White Hall, and I to St. James's, where we all met, and did
our usual weekly business with the Duke of York.  But, Lord! methinks both
he and we are mighty flat and dull over what we used to be, when Sir W.
Coventry was among us.  Thence I into St. James's Park, and there met Mr.
Povy; and he and I to walk an hour or more in the Pell Mell, talking of
the times.  He tells me, among other things, that this business of the
Chancellor do breed a kind of inward distance between the King and the
Duke of York, and that it cannot be avoided; for though the latter did at
first move it through his folly, yet he is made to see that he is wounded
by it, and is become much a less man than he was, and so will be: but he
tells me that they are, and have always been, great dissemblers one
towards another; and that their parting heretofore in France is never to
be thoroughly reconciled between them.  He tells me that he believes there
is no such thing like to be, as a composition with my Lady Castlemayne,
and that she shall be got out of the way before the Parliament comes; for
he says she is as high as ever she was, though he believes the King is as
weary of her as is possible, and would give any thing to remove her, but
he is so weak in his passion that he dare not do it; that he do believe
that my Lord Chancellor will be doing some acts in the Parliament which
shall render him popular; and that there are many people now do speak
kindly of him that did not before; but that, if he do do this, it must
provoke the King, and that party that removed him.  He seems to doubt what
the King of France will do, in case an accommodation shall be made between
Spain and him for Flanders, for then he will have nothing more easy to do
with his army than to subdue us.  Parted with him at White Hall, and,
there I took coach and took up my wife and Mercer, and so home and I to
the office, where ended my letters, and then to my chamber with my boy to
lay up some papers and things that lay out of order against to-morrow, to
make it clear against the feast that I am to have.  Here Mr. Pelling come
to sit with us, and talked of musique and the musicians of the town, and
so to bed, after supper.

11th.  Up, and with Mr. Gawden to the Exchequer.  By the way, he tells me
this day he is to be answered whether he must hold Sheriffe or no; for he
would not hold unless he may keep it at his office, which is out of the
city (and so my Lord Mayor must come with his sword down, whenever he
comes thither), which he do, because he cannot get a house fit for him in
the city, or else he will fine for it.  Among others that they have in
nomination for Sheriffe, one is little Chaplin, who was his servant, and a
very young man to undergo that place; but as the city is now, there is no
great honour nor joy to be had, in being a public officer.  At the
Exchequer I looked after my business, and when done went home to the
'Change, and there bought a case of knives for dinner, and a dish of fruit
for 5s., and bespoke other things, and then home, and here I find all
things in good order, and a good dinner towards.  Anon comes Sir W. Batten
and his lady, and Mr. Griffith, their ward, and Sir W. Pen and his lady,
and Mrs. Lowther, who is grown, either through pride or want of manners, a
fool, having not a word to say almost all dinner; and, as a further mark
of a beggarly, proud fool, hath a bracelet of diamonds and rubies about
her wrist, and a sixpenny necklace about her neck, and not one good rag of
clothes upon her back; and Sir John Chichly in their company, and Mrs.
Turner.  Here I had an extraordinary good and handsome dinner for them,
better than any of them deserve or understand, saving Sir John Chichly and
Mrs. Turner, and not much mirth, only what I by discourse made, and that
against my genius.  After dinner I took occasion to break up the company
soon as I could, and all parted, Sir W. Batten and I by water to White
Hall, there to speak with the Commissioners of the Treasury, who are
mighty earnest for our hastening all that may be the paying off of the
Seamen, now there is money, and are considering many other thins for
easing of charge, which I am glad of, but vexed to see that J. Duncomb
should be so pressing in it as if none of us had like care with him.
Having done there, I by coach to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there
saw part of "The Ungratefull Lovers;" and sat by Beck Marshall, who is
very handsome near hand.  Here I met Mrs. Turner and my wife as we agreed,
and together home, and there my wife and I part of the night at the
flageolet, which she plays now any thing upon almost at first sight and in
good time.  But here come Mr. Moore, and sat and discoursed with me of
publique matters: the sum of which is, that he do doubt that there is more
at the bottom than the removal of the Chancellor; that is, he do verily
believe that the King do resolve to declare the Duke of Monmouth
legitimate, and that we shall soon see it. This I do not think the Duke of
York will endure without blows; but his poverty, and being lessened by
having the Chancellor fallen and [Sir] W. Coventry gone from him, will
disable him from being able to do any thing almost, he being himself
almost lost in the esteem of people; and will be more and more, unless my
Lord Chancellor, who is already begun to be pitied by some people, and to
be better thought of than was expected, do recover himself in Parliament.
He would seem to fear that this difference about the Crowne (if there be
nothing else) will undo us.  He do say that, that is very true; that my
Lord [Chancellor] did lately make some stop of some grants of L2000 a-year
to my Lord Grandison, which was only in his name, for the use of my Lady
Castlemaine's children; and that this did incense her, and she did speak
very scornful words, and sent a scornful message to him about it.  He
gone, after supper, I to bed, being mightily pleased with my wife's
playing so well upon the flageolet, and I am resolved she shall learn to
play upon some instrument, for though her eare be bad, yet I see she will
attain any thing to be done by her hand.

12th.  Up, and at the office all the morning till almost noon, and then I
rode from the office (which I have not done five times I think since I
come thither) and to the Exchequer for some tallies for Tangier; and that
being done, to the Dog taverne, and there I spent half a piece upon the
clerks, and so away, and I to Mrs. Martin's, but she not at home, but
staid and drunk with her sister and landlady, and by that time it was time
to go to a play, which I did at the Duke's house, where "Tu Quoque" was
the first time acted, with some alterations of Sir W. Davenant's; but the
play is a very silly play, methinks; for I, and others that sat by me, Mr.
Povy and Mr. Progers, were weary of it; but it will please the citizens.
My wife also was there, I having sent for her to meet me there, and W.
Hewer.  After the play we home, and there I to the office and despatched
my business, and then home, and mightily pleased with my wife's playing on
the flageolet, she taking out any tune almost at first sight, and keeping
time to it, which pleases me mightily.  So to supper and to bed.

13th.  Called up by people come to deliver in ten chaldron of coals,
brought in one of our prizes from Newcastle.  The rest we intend to sell,
we having above ten chaldron between us.  They sell at about 28s. or 29s.
per chaldron; but Sir W. Batten hath sworn that he was a cuckold that
sells under 30s., and that makes us lay up all but what we have for our
own spending, which is very pleasant; for I believe we shall be glad to
sell them for less.  To the office, and there despatched business till ten
o'clock, and then with Sir W. Batten and my wife and Mrs. Turner by
hackney-coach to Walthamstow, to Mr. Shipman's to dinner, where Sir W. Pen
and my Lady and Mrs. Lowther (the latter of which hath got a sore nose,
given her, I believe, from her husband, which made me I could not look
upon her with any pleasure), and here a very good and plentifull wholesome
dinner, and, above all thing, such plenty of milk meats, she keeping a
great dairy, and so good as I never met with.  The afternoon proved very
foul weather, the morning fair.  We staid talking till evening, and then
home, and there to my flageolet with my wife, and so to bed without any
supper, my belly being full and dinner not digested.  It vexed me to hear
how Sir W. Pen, who come alone from London, being to send his coachman for
his wife and daughter, and bidding his coachman in much anger to go for
them (he being vexed, like a rogue, to do anything to please his wife),
his coachman Tom was heard to say a pox, or God rot her, can she walk
hither?  These words do so mad me that I could find in my heart to give
him or my Lady notice of them.

14th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy.  At noon comes
Mr. Pierce and dined with me to advise about several matters of his
relating to the office and his purse, and here he told me that the King
and Duke of York and the whole Court is mighty joyful at the Duchesse of
York's being brought to bed this day, or yesterday, of a son; which will
settle men's minds mightily.  And he tells me that he do think that what
the King do, of giving the Duke of Monmouth the command of his Guards, and
giving my Lord Gerard L12,000 for it, is merely to find an employment for
him upon which he may live, and not out of any design to bring him into
any title to the Crowne; which Mr. Moore did the other day put me into
great fear of.  After dinner, he gone, my wife to the King's play-house to
see "The Northerne Castle," which I think I never did see before.  Knipp
acted in it, and did her part very extraordinary well; but the play is but
a mean, sorry play; but the house very full of gallants. It seems, it hath
not been acted a good while.  Thence to the Exchange for something for my
wife, and then home and to the office, and then home to our flageolet, and
so to bed, being mightily troubled in mind at the liberty I give myself of
going to plays upon pretence of the weakness of my eyes, that cannot
continue so long together at work at my office, but I must remedy it.

15th (Lord's day).  Up to my chamber, there to set some papers to rights.
By and by to church, where I stood, in continual fear of Mrs. Markham's
coming to church, and offering to come into our pew, to prevent which,
soon as ever I heard the great door open, I did step back, and clap my
breech to our pew-door, that she might be forced to shove me to come in;
but as God would have it, she did not come.  Mr. Mills preached, and after
sermon, by invitation, he and his wife come to dine with me, which is the
first time they have been in my house; I think, these five years, I
thinking it not amiss, because of their acquaintance in our country, to
shew them some respect.  Mr. Turner and his wife, and their son the
Captain, dined with me, and I had a very good dinner for them, and very
merry, and after dinner, he [Mr. Mills] was forced to go, though it
rained, to Stepney, to preach.  We also to church, and then home, and
there comes Mr. Pelling, with two men, by promise, one Wallington and
Piggott, the former whereof, being a very little fellow, did sing a most
excellent bass, and yet a poor fellow, a working goldsmith, that goes
without gloves to his hands.  Here we sung several good things, but I am
more and more confirmed that singing with many voices is not singing, but
a sort of instrumental musique, the sense of the words being lost by not
being heard, and especially as they set them with Fuges of words, one
after another, whereas singing properly, I think, should be but with one
or two voices at most and the counterpoint.  They supped with me, and so
broke, up, and then my wife and I to my chamber, where, through the
badness of my eyes, she was forced to read to me, which she do very well,
and was Mr. Boyle's discourse upon the style of the Scripture,' which is a
very fine piece, and so to bed.

16th.  Up, and several come to me, among others Mr. Yeabsly of Plymouth,
to discourse about their matters touching Tangier, and by and by Sir H.
Cholmly, who was with me a good while; who tells me that the Duke of
York's child is christened, the Duke of Albemarle and the Marquis of
Worcester' godfathers, and my Lady Suffolke godmother; and they have named
it Edgar, which is a brave name.  But it seems they are more joyful in the
Chancellor's family, at the birth of this Prince, than in wisdom they
should, for fear it should give the King cause of jealousy.  Sir H.
Cholmly do not seem to think there is any such thing can be in the King's
intention as that of raising the Duke of Monmouth to the Crowne, though he
thinks there may possibly be some persons that would, and others that
would be glad to have the Queen removed to some monastery, or somewhere or
other, to make room for a new wife; for they will all be unsafe under the
Duke of York.  He says the King and Parliament will agree; that is, that
the King will do any thing that they will have him.  We together to the
Exchequer about our Tangier orders, and so parted at the New Exchange,
where I staid reading Mrs. Phillips's poems till my wife and Mercer called
me to Mrs. Pierces, by invitation to dinner, where I find her painted,
which makes me loathe her, and the nastiest poor dinner that made me sick,
only here I met with a Fourth Advice to the Painter upon the coming in of
the Dutch to the River and end of the war, that made my heart ake to read,
it being too sharp, and so true.  Here I also saw a printed account of the
examinations taken, touching the burning of the City of London, shewing
the plot of the Papists therein; which, it seems, hath been ordered and to
have been burnt by the hands of the hangman, in Westminster Palace.  I
will try to get one of them.  After dinner she showed us her closet, which
is pretty, with her James's picture done by Hales, but with a mighty bad
hand, which is his great fault that he do do negligently, and the drapery
also not very good.  Being tired of being here, and sick of their damned
sluttish dinner, my wife and Mercer and I away to the King's play-house,
to see the "Scornfull Lady;" but it being now three o'clock there was not
one soul in the pit; whereupon, for shame, we would not go in, but,
against our wills, went all to see "Tu Quoque" again, where there is a
pretty store of company, and going with a prejudice the play appeared
better to us.  Here we saw Madam Morland, who is grown mighty fat, but is
very comely.  But one of the best arts of our sport was a mighty pretty
lady that sat behind, that did laugh so heartily and constantly, that it
did me good to hear her.  Thence to the King's house, upon a wager of mine
with my wife, that there would be no acting there today, there being no
company: so I went in and found a pretty good company there, and saw their
dance at the end of he play, and so to the coach again, and to the Cock
ale house, and there drank in our coach, and so home, and my wife read to
me as last night, and so to bed vexed with our dinner to-day, and myself
more with being convinced that Mrs. Pierce paints, so that henceforth to
be sure I shall loathe her.

17th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, where Mr. Wren come to us
and sat with us, only to learn, and do intend to come once or twice a week
and sit with us.  In the afternoon walked to the Old Swan, the way mighty
dirty, and there called at Michell's, and there had opportunity para kiss
su moher, but elle did receive it with a great deal of seeming regret,
which did vex me.  But however I do not doubt overcoming her as I did the
moher of the monsieur at Deptford.  So thence by water to Westminster, to
Burgess, and there did receive my orders for L1500 more for Tangier.
Thence to the Hall, and there talked a little with Mrs. Michell, and so to
Mrs. Martin's to pay for my cuffs and drink with her . .  .  .  And by and
by away by coach and met with Sir H. Cholmly, and with him to the Temple,
and there in Playford's shop did give him some of my Exchequer orders and
took his receipts, and so parted and home, and there to my business hard
at the office, and then home, my wife being at Mrs. Turner's, who and her
husband come home with her, and here staid and talked and staid late, and
then went away and we to bed.  But that which vexed me much this evening
is that Captain Cocke and Sir W. Batten did come to me, and sat, and drank
a bottle of wine, and told me how Sir W. Pen hath got an order for the
"Flying Greyhound" for himself, which is so false a thing, and the part of
a knave, as nothing almost can be more. This vexed me; but I resolve to
bring it before the Duke, and try a pull for it.

18th.  Up betimes and to Captain Cocke, in his coach which he sent for me,
and he not being ready I walked in the Exchange, which is now made pretty,
by having windows and doors before all their shops, to keep out the cold.
By and by to him, and he being ready, he and I out in his coach to my Lord
Chancellor's; there to Mr. Wren's chamber, who did tell us the whole of
Sir W. Pen's having the order for this ship of ours, and we went with him
to St. James's, and there I did see the copy of it, which is built upon a
suggestion of his having given the King a ship of his, "The Prosperous,"
wherein is such a cheat as I have the best advantage in the world over
him, and will make him do reason, or lay him on his back.  This I was very
glad of, and having done as far as I could in it we returned, and I home,
and there at the office all the morning, and at noon with my Lord Bruncker
to the Treasurer's office to look over the clerks who are there making up
the books, but in such a manner as it is a shame to see.  Then home to
dinner, and after dinner, my mind mighty full of this business of Sir W.
Pen's, to the office, and there busy all the afternoon.  This evening Sir
W. Batten and [Sir] W. Pen and I met at [Sir] W. Batten's house, and there
I took an opportunity to break the business, at which [Sir] W. Pen is much
disturbed, and would excuse it the most he can, but do it so basely, that
though he do offer to let go his pretence to her, and resign up his order
for her, and come in only to ask his share of her (which do very well
please me, and give me present satisfaction), yet I shall remember him for
a knave while I live.  But thus my mind is quieted for the present more
than I thought I should be, and am glad that I shall have no need of
bidding him open defiance, which I would otherwise have done, and made a
perpetual war between us.  So to the office, and there busy pretty late,
and so home and to supper with my wife, and so to bed.

19th.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon home to dinner, W.
When she looked back again the carriage was quite near; somebody in it
motioned from beneath a red umbrella, and away rolled the vehicle. Only
Coaly Mathew's dog barked after it for a while, and acted as if he
wanted to seize the spokes with his teeth; but at the pond he turned back
again, barked once more in front of the door, and then slunk into the
house.

"Hurrah! she's gone away!" cried Damie, as if he were glad of it. "It was
Farmer Landfried's wife. Didn't you know Farmer Rodel's black
horses?--they carried her off. Don't forget my leather breeches!" he cried
at the top of his voice, although the carriage had already disappeared
in the valley, and was presently seen creeping up the little hill by the
Holderwasen.

     
     The children returned quietly to the village. Who knows in what
     way this incident may take root in the inmost being, and what may
     sprout from it?
     For the present another feeling covers that of the first, bitter
     disappointment.
     
     
     CHAPTER III
     FROM THE TREE BY THE PARENTS' HOUSE
     
     On the eve of All Souls' Day Black Marianne said to the children:
     
     "Go, now, and gather some red berries, for we shall want them at
     the graveyard tomorrow."
     "I know where to find them! I can get some!" cried Damie with genuine
     eagerness and joy.

And away he ran out of the village, at such a pace that Amrei could
hardly keep up with him; and when she arrived at their parents' house he
was already up in the tree, teasing her in a boasting manner and calling
for her to come up too--because he knew that she could not.

And now he began to pluck the red berries and threw them down into his
sister's apron. She asked him to pick them with their stems on, because
she wanted to make a wreath. He answered, "No, I shan't!"--nevertheless
no berries fell down after that without stems on them.

"Hark, how the sparrows are scolding!" cried Damie from the tree.
"They're angry because I'm taking their food away from them!" And
finally, when he had plucked all the berries, he said: "I shan't
come down again, but shall stay up here day and night until I die and drop
down, and shall never come to you at all any more, unless you promise me
something!"
"What is it?"
"That you'll never wear the necklace that Farmer Landfried's wife gave
you, so long as I can see it. Will you promise me that?"

"No!"
"Then I shall never come down!"
"Very well," said Amrei, and she went away with her berries. But before
she had gone far, she sat down behind a pile of wood and started to make
a wreath, every now and then peeping out to see if Damie was not
coming.
She put the wreath on her head. Suddenly an indescribable anxiety about
Damie seized her; she ran back, and there was Damie, sitting astride a
branch and leaning back against the trunk of the tree with his arms
folded.

"Come down! I'll promise you what you want!" cried Amrei; and in a moment
Damie was down on the ground beside her.

When she got home, Black Marianne called her a foolish child and scolded
her for making a wreath for herself out of the berries that were intended
for her parents' graves. Marianne quickly destroyed the wreath,
muttering a few words which the children could not understand. Then she
took them both by the hand and led them out to the churchyard; and passing
where two mounds lay close together, she said:

"There are your parents!"
The children looked at each other in surprise. Marianne then made a
cross-shaped furrow in each of the mounds, and showed the children how to
stick the berries in. Damie was handy at the work, and boasted because
his red cross was finished sooner than his sister's. Amrei looked at him
fixedly and made no answer; but when Damie said, "That will please father,"
she struck him on the back and said: "Be quiet!"
Damie began to cry, perhaps louder than he really meant to. Then Amrei
called out:

"For heaven's sake, forgive me!--forgive me for doing that to you. Right
here, I promise you that I'll do all I can for you, all my life long,
and give you everything I have. I didn't hurt you, Damie, did I? You may
depend upon it, it shall not happen again as long as I live--never
again!--never! Oh, mother! Oh, father! I shall be good, I promise you!
Oh, mother! Oh, father!"
She could say no more; but she did not weep aloud, although it was plain
that her heart was almost bursting. Not until Black Marianne burst out
crying did Amrei weep with her.

They returned home, and when Damie said "Good night," Amrei whispered
into his ear:

"Now I know that we shall never see our parents again in this world."

Even from making this communication she derived a certain satisfaction--a
childish pride which is awakened by having something to impart. And
yet in this child's heart there had dawned something like a realization
that one of the great ties in her life had been severed forever, the thought
that arises with the consciousness that a parent is no longer with
us.

When the lips which called thee child have been sealed by death, a breath
has vanished from thy life that shall nevermore return.

While Black Marianne was sitting beside the child's bed, the little
one said:

"I seem to be falling and falling, on and on. Let me keep hold
of your hand."
Holding the hand fast, she dropped into a slumber; but as often as Black
Marianne tried to draw her hand away, she clutched at it again. Marianne
understood what this sensation of endless falling signified for the child;
she felt in realizing her parents' death as if she were being wafted
along, without knowing whence or whither.

It was not until nearly midnight that Marianne was able to quit the
child's bedside, after she had repeated her usual twelve Paternosters
over and over again, who knows how many times? A look of stern defiance
was on the face of the sleeping child. She had laid one hand across her
bosom; Black Marianne gently lifted it, and said, half-aloud, to herself:

"If there were only an eye to watch over thee and a hand to help thee all
the time, as there is now in thy sleep, and to take the heaviness out
of thy heart without thy knowing it! But nobody can do that--none but
He alone. Oh, may He do unto my child in distant lands as I do unto this
little one!"
Black Marianne was a shunned woman, that is to say, people were almost
afraid of her, so harsh did she seem in her manner. Some eighteen years
before she had lost her husband, who had been shot in an attempt which
he had made with some companions to rob the stage-coach. Marianne was
expecting a child to be born when the body of her husband, with its blackened
face, was carried into the village; but she bore up bravely and washed
the dead man's face as if she hoped, by so doing, to wash away his black
guilt. Her three daughters died, and only the son, who was born soon
afterward, lived to grow up. He turned out to be a handsome lad, though
he had a strange, dark color in his face; he was now traveling abroad as
a journeyman mason. For from the time of Brosi, and especially since that
worthy man's son, Severin, had worked his way up to such high honor with
the mallet, many of the young men in the village had chosen to follow
the mason's calling. The children used to talk of Severin as if he were a
prince in a fairy tale. And so Black Marianne's only child had, in spite
of her remonstrances, become a mason, and was now wandering around the
country. And she, who all her life long had never left the village, nor
had ever desired to leave it, often declared that she seemed to herself
like a hen that had hatched a duck's egg; but she was almost always
clucking to herself about it.

One would hardly believe it, but Black Marianne was one of the most cheerful
persons in the village; she was never seen to be sorrowful, for she
did not like to have people pity her; and that is why they did not take
to her. In the winter she was the most industrious spinner in the village,
and in the summer, the busiest at gathering wood, a large part of which
she was able to sell; and "my John"--for that was her surviving
child's name--"my John" was always the subject of her conversation.

She said that she had taken little Amrei to live with her, not from a
desire to be kind, but in order that she might have some living being
about her. She liked to appear rough before people, and thus enjoyed, all
the more, the proud consciousness of independence.

The exact opposite to her was Crappy Zachy, with whom Damie had found shelter.
This worthy represented himself to people as a kind-hearted fellow
who would give away anything he had; but as a matter of fact he bullied
and ill-used his entire household, and especially Damie, for whose keep he
received but a small sum of money. His real name was Zechariah, and he
got his nickname from his once having brought home to his wife a couple
of finely trussed pigeons to roast, but they were in fact a pair of plucked
ravens, which in that part of the country are called "crappies." Crappy
Zachy, who had a wooden leg, spent most of his time knitting woolen
stockings and jackets; and with his knitting he used to sit about in
the village wherever there was any opportunity to gossip. This gossiping,
in the course of which he heard all sorts of news, was a source of some
very profitable side-business for him. He was what they called the
"marriage-maker" of the region; for in those parts, where there are
large, separate estates, marriages are generally managed through agents,
who find out accurately the relative circumstances of the prospective
couples, and arrange everything beforehand. When a marriage of this
kind had been brought about, Crappy Zachy used to play the fiddle at
the wedding, for he had quite a reputation in the region as a
fiddler; moreover, when his hands were tired from fiddling, he could
play the clarionet and the horn.

In fact, he was an undoubted genius.

Damie's whining and sensitive nature was very disgusting to Crappy Zachy,
and he tried to cure him of it by giving him plenty to cry about and
teasing him whenever he could.

Thus the two little stems which had sprouted in the same garden were
transplanted into different soils. The position and the nature of the
ground, and the qualities that were inherent in each stem, made them grow
up very differently.

CHAPTER IV
"OPEN, DOOR"

All Souls' Day came. It was dull and foggy, and the children stood among a
crowd of people assembled in the churchyard. Crappy Zachy had led Damie
there by the hand, but Amrei had come alone, without Black Marianne;
many were angry at the hard-hearted woman, while a few hit a part of
the truth when they said that Marianne did not like to visit graves, because
she did not know where her husband's grave was. Amrei was quiet and did
not shed a tear, while Damie wept bitterly at the pitying remarks
of the bystanders, more especially because Crappy Zachy had given him
several sly pinches and pokes. For a time Amrei, in a dreamy, forgetful
way, stood gazing at the lights on the heads of the graves, watching the
flame consume the wax and the wick grow blacker, and blacker, until at
last the light was quite burnt out.

In the crowd a man, wearing handsome, town-made clothes and with a
ribbon in his button-hole, was moving about here and there. It was the
High Commissioner of Public Works, Severin, who, on a trip of inspection,
had come to visit the graves of his parents, Brosi and Moni.
His brothers and sisters and other relatives were constantly crowding
around him with a kind of deferential respect; in fact, the usual reverence
of the occasion was almost entirely diverted, nearly all the attention
being fixed upon this stranger. Amrei also looked at him, and asked
Crappy Zachy:

"Is that a bridegroom?"

     "Why?"
     "Because he has a ribbon in his button-hole."
     Instead of answering her, the first thing that Crappy Zachy did was
to go up to a group of people and tell them what a stupid speech
the child had made; and from among the graves there arose a loud
laugh over her foolishness.

Only Farmer Rodel's wife said: "I don't see anything foolish in that.
Although it is a mark of honor that Severin has, it is after all a strange
thing for him to go about in the churchyard with such a decoration on--in
the place where we see what we are all coming to, whether in our
lifetime we have worn clothes of silk or of homespun.
It annoyed me to see him wear it in the church--a thing of that kind ought
to be taken off when one goes to church, and more especially in the
churchyard!"
The rumor of little Amrei's question must have penetrated to Severin
himself, for he was seen to button his overcoat hastily, and as he did
so he nodded at the child. Now he was heard to ask who she was, and as
soon as he found out, he came hurrying across to the children
beside the fresh graves, and said to Amrei:

"Come here, my child.

Open your hand. Here is a ducat for you--buy what you want with it."
The child stared at him and did not answer. But scarcely had Severin turned
his back when she called out to him, half-aloud:

     "I won't take any presents!"--and she flung the ducat after
     him.
     
     Several people who had seen this came up to Amrei and scolded her;
     and just as they were about to illuse her, she was again saved
     from their rough hands by Farmer Rodel's wife, who once before
     had protected her with words.

But even she requested Amrei to go after Severin and at least thank him.
But Amrei made no answer whatsoever; she remained obstinate, so that her
protectress also left her. Only with considerable difficulty was the ducat
found again, and a member of the Village Council, who was present, took
charge of it in order to deliver it over to the child's guardian.

This incident gave Amrei a strange reputation in the village. People said
she had lived only a few days with Black Marianne, and yet had
already acquired that woman's manners.

It was declared to be an unheard of thing that a child so sunk in poverty
could be so proud, and she was scolded up hill and down dale for this pride,
so that she became thoroughly aware of it, and in her young, childish
heart there arose an attitude of defiance, a resolve to evince it all the
more. Black Marianne, moreover, did her part to strengthen this state of
mind, for she said: "Nothing more lucky can happen to a poor person
than to be considered proud, for by that means he or she is saved from
being trampled upon by everybody, and from being expected to offer thanks
for such usage afterward."
In the winter Amrei was at Crappy Zachy's much of the time, for she was very
fond of hearing him play the violin; yes, and Crappy Zachy on one occasion
bestowed such high praise upon her as to say: "You are not stupid;"
for Amrei, after listening to his playing for a long time, had remarked:
"It's wonderful how a fiddle can hold its breath so long; I can't do that."
And, on quiet winter nights at home, when Marianne told sparkling and
horrifying goblin-stories, Amrei, when they were finished, would draw a
deep breath and say: "Oh, Marianne, I must take breath now--I was obliged
to hold my breath all the time you were speaking."
No one paid much attention to Amrei, and the child could dream away just
as she had a mind to. Only the schoolmaster said once at a meeting of
the Village Council, that he had never seen such a child--she was at
once defiant and yielding, dreamy and alert. In truth, with all her
childish self-forgetfulness, there was already developing in little Amrei
a sense of responsibility, an attitude of self-defense in opposition to
the world, its kindness and its malice. Damie, on the other hand, came
crying and complaining to his sister upon every trifling occasion. He was,
furthermore, always pitying himself, and when he was tumbled over by his
playmates in their wrestling matches, he always whined: "Yes, because I am
an orphan they beat me! Oh, if my father and mother knew of it!"--and then
he cried twice as much over the injustice of it. Damie let everybody
give him things to eat, and thus became greedy, while Amrei was satisfied
with a little, and thus acquired habits of moderation. Even the roughest
boys were afraid of Amrei, although nobody knew how she had proved her
strength, while Damie would run away from quite little boys. In school
Damie was always up to mischief; he shuffled his feet and turned down
the leaves of the books with his fingers as he read. Amrei, on the other
hand, was always bright and attentive, though she often wept in the school,
not for the punishment she herself received, but because Damie was so often
punished.

Amrei could please Damie best by telling him the answers to riddles. The
children still used to sit frequently by the house of their rich guardian,
sometimes near the wagons, sometimes near the oven behind the house,
where they used to warm themselves, especially in the autumn.
Once Amrei asked:

"What's the best thing about an oven?"
"You know I can't guess anything," replied Damie, plaintively.

"Then I'll tell you:

'In the oven this is best, 'tis said, That it never itself doth eat the
bread.'"
And then, pointing to the wagons before the house, Amrei asked:

"What's full of holes, and yet holds? "--and without waiting for a reply,
she gave the answer: "A chain!"
"Now you must let me ask you these riddles," said Damie.

     And Amrei replied: "Yes, you may ask them. But do you see those sheep
     coming yonder? Now I know another riddle."
     "No!" cried Damie, "no! Two are enough for me--I can't remember three!"
     
     "Yes, you must hear this one too, or else I'll take the others back!"
     
     And Damie kept repeating to himself, anxiously: "A chain," "Eat it
     itself," while Amrei asked:
"On which side have sheep the most wool?"

--"Ba! ba! on the outside!" she sang merrily.
Damie now ran off to ask his playmates these riddles; he kept his
fists tightly clenched, as if he were holding the riddles fast and
was determined not to let them go. But when he got to his playmates,
he remembered only the one about the chain; and Farmer Rodel's
eldest son, whom he hadn't asked at all and who was much too old
for that sort of thing, guessed the answer at once, and Damie ran
back to his sister crying.
Little Amrei's cleverness at riddles soon began to be talked about
in the village, and even rich, serious farmers, who seldom wasted
many words on anybody, and least of all on a poor child, now and
then condescended to ask little Amrei one. That she knew a great
many herself was not strange, for she had probably learned them
from Black Marianne; but that she was able to answer so many new
ones caused general astonishment. Amrei would soon have been unable
to go across the street or into the fields without being stopped
and questioned, if she had not found out a remedy; she made it a
rule that she would not answer a riddle for anybody, unless she
might propose one in return, and she managed to think up such good
ones that the people stood still as if spell-bound. Never had a
poor child been so much noticed in the village as was this little
Amrei. But, as she grew older, less attention was paid to her, for
people look with sympathetic eyes only at the blossom and the fruit,
and disregard the long period of transition during which the one
is ripening into the other.
Before Amrei's school-days were over, Fate gave her a riddle that
was difficult to solve.
The children had an uncle, a woodcutter, who lived some fifteen
miles from Haldenbrunn, at Fluorn. They had seen him only once, and
that was at their parents' funeral, when he had walked behind the
magistrate, who had led the children by the hand. After that time
the children often dreamt about their uncle at Fluorn. They were
often told that this uncle was like their father, which made them
still more anxious to see him; for although they still believed at
times that their father and mother would some day suddenly reappear--it
could not be that they had gone away forever--still, as the years
rolled on, they gradually became reconciled to giving up this hope,
especially after they had over and over again put berries on the
graves, and had long been able to read the two names on the same
black cross. They also almost entirely forgot about the uncle in
Fluorn, for during many years they had heard nothing of him.
But one day the children were called into their guardian's house,
and there sat a tall, heavy man with a brown face.
"Come here, children," said this man, as the children entered.
"Don't you know me?" He had a dry, harsh voice.
The children looked at him with wondering eyes. Perhaps some
remembrance of their father's voice awoke within them. The man
continued:
"I am your father's brother. Come here, Lisbeth, and you too, Damie."

"My name's not Lisbeth--my name's Amrei," said the girl; and she
began to cry. She did not offer her hand to her uncle. A feeling
of estrangement made her tremble, when her own uncle thus called
her by a wrong name; she very likely felt that there could be no
real affection for her in anybody who did not know her name.
"If you are my uncle, why don't you know my name?" asked Amrei.
"You are a stupid child! Go and offer him your hand immediately!"
commanded Farmer Rodel. And then he said to the stranger, half in
a whisper: "She's a strange child. Black Marianne, who, you know,
is a peculiar sort of person, has put all sorts of odd notions into
her head."
Amrei looked around in astonishment, and gave her hand to her uncle,
trembling. Damie, who had done so already, now said:
"Uncle, have you brought us anything?"
"I haven't much to bring. I bring myself, and you're to go with me.
Do you know, Amrei, that it's not at all right for you not to like
your uncle. You'd better come here and sit down beside me--nearer
still. You see, your brother Damie is much more sensible. He looks
more like our family, but you belong to us too."
A maid now came in with some man's clothing, which she laid on the
table.
"These are your brother's clothes," said Farmer Rodel to the stranger;
and the latter went on to say to Amrei:
"As you see, these are your father's clothes. We shall take them
with us, and you shall go too--first to Fluorn, and then across the
brook."
Amrei, trembling, touched her father's coat and his blue-striped
vest.So lost our labour, and I
by coach home, and there to my chamber, and did a great deal of good
business about my Tangier accounts, and so with pleasure discoursing with
my wife of our journey shortly to Brampton, and of this little girle,
which indeed runs in my head, and pleases me mightily, though I dare not
own it, and so to supper and to bed.

28th.  Up, having slept not so much to-night as I used to do, for my
thoughts being so full of this pretty little girle that is coming to live
with us, which pleases me mightily.  All the morning at the Office, busy
upon an Order of Council, wherein they are mightily at a loss what to
advise about our discharging of seamen by ticket, there being no money to
pay their wages before January, only there is money to pay them since
January, provided by the Parliament, which will be a horrid disgrace to
the King and Crowne of England that no man shall reckon himself safe, but
where the Parliament takes care.  And this did move Mr. Wren at the table
to-day to say, that he did believe if ever there be occasion more to raise
money, it will become here, as it is in Poland, that there are two
treasurers--one for the King, and the other for the kingdom.  At noon
dined at home, and Mr. Hater with me, and Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, dropped
in, who I feared did come to bespeak me to be godfather to his son, which
I am unwilling now to be, having ended my liking to his wife, since I find
she paints.  After dinner comes Sir Fr. Hollis to me about business; and I
with him by coach to the Temple, and there I 'light; all the way he
telling me romantic lies of himself and his family, how they have been
Parliamentmen for Grimsby, he and his forefathers, this 140 years; and his
father is now: and himself, at this day, stands for to be, with his
father, by the death of his fellow-burgess; and that he believes it will
cost him as much as it did his predecessor, which was L300 in ale, and L52
in buttered ale; which I believe is one of his devilish lies.  Here I
'light and to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw a piece of "Sir
Martin Marrall," with great delight, though I have seen it so often, and
so home, and there busy late, and so home to my supper and bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Up, and put off first my summer's silk suit, and put
on a cloth one.  Then to church, and so home to dinner, my wife and I
alone to a good dinner.  All the afternoon talking in my chamber with my
wife, about my keeping a coach the next year, and doing some things to my
house, which will cost money--that is, furnish our best chamber with
tapestry, and other rooms with pictures.  In the evening read good
books--my wife to me; and I did even my kitchen accounts.  Then to supper,
and so to bed.

30th.  By water to White Hall, there to a committee of Tangier, but they
not met yet, I went to St. James's, there thinking to have opportunity to
speak to the Duke of York about the petition I have to make to him for
something in reward for my service this war, but I did waive it.  Thence
to White Hall, and there a Committee met, where little was done, and
thence to the Duke of York to Council, where we the officers of the Navy
did attend about the business of discharging the seamen by tickets, where
several of the Lords spoke and of our number none but myself, which I did
in such manner as pleased the King and Council.  Speaking concerning the
difficulty of pleasing of seamen and giving them assurance to their
satisfaction that they should be paid their arrears of wages, my Lord
Ashly did move that an assignment for money on the Act might be put into
the hands of the East India Company, or City of London, which he thought
the seamen would believe.  But this my Lord Anglesey did very handsomely
oppose, and I think did carry it that it will not be: and it is indeed a
mean thing that the King should so far own his own want of credit as to
borrow theirs in this manner.  My Lord Anglesey told him that this was the
way indeed to teach the Parliament to trust the King no more for the time
to come, but to have a kingdom's Treasurer distinct from the King's. Home
at noon to dinner, where I expected to have had our new girle, my wife's
woman, but she is not yet come.  I abroad after dinner to White Hall, and
there among other things do hear that there will be musique to-morrow
night before the King.  So to Westminster, where to the Swan .  . .  .
and drank and away to the Hall, and thence to Mrs. Martin's, to bespeak
some linen, and there je did avoir all with her, and drank, and away,
having first promised my goddaughter a new coat-her first coat. So by
coach home, and there find our pretty girl Willet come, brought by Mr.
Batelier, and she is very pretty, and so grave as I never saw a little
thing in my life.  Indeed I think her a little too good for my family, and
so well carriaged as I hardly ever saw.  I wish my wife may use her well.
Now I begin to be full of thought for my journey the next week, if I can
get leave, to Brampton.  Tonight come and sat with me Mr. Turner and his
wife and tell me of a design of sending their son Franke to the East Indy
Company's service if they can get him entertainment, which they are
promised by Sir Andr. Rickard, which I do very well like of.  So the
company broke up and to bed.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Act of Council passed, to put out all Papists in office
     And a deal of do of which I am weary
     But do it with mighty vanity and talking
     Feared she hath from some [one] or other of a present
     Fell a-crying for joy, being all maudlin and kissing one another
     Found to be with child, do never stir out of their beds
     Had his hand cut off, and was hanged presently!
     Hates to have any body mention what he had done the day before
     House of Lords is the last appeal that a man can make
     I find her painted, which makes me loathe her (cosmetics)
     King do resolve to declare the Duke of Monmouth legitimate
     Lady Castlemayne is compounding with the King for a pension
     My intention to learn to trill
     Never, while he lives, truckle under any body or any faction
     Pressing in it as if none of us had like care with him
     Singing with many voices is not singing
     Their condition was a little below my present state
     Weary of it; but it will please the citizens
     Weigh him after he had done playing


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 OCTOBER
                                  1667

October 1st.  All the morning busy at the office, pleased mightily with my
girle that we have got to wait on my wife.  At noon dined with Sir G.
Carteret and the rest of our officers at his house in Broad Street, they
being there upon his accounts.  After dinner took coach and to my wife,
who was gone before into the Strand, there to buy a nightgown, where I
found her in a shop with her pretty girle, and having bought it away home,
and I thence to Sir G. Carteret's again, and so took coach alone, it now
being almost night, to White Hall, and there in the Boarded-gallery did
hear the musick with which the King is presented this night by Monsieur
Grebus, the master of his musick; both instrumentall--I think twenty-four
violins--and vocall; an English song upon Peace.  But, God forgive me!  I
never was so little pleased with a concert of musick in my life.  The
manner of setting of words and repeating them out of order, and that with
a number of voices, makes me sick, the whole design of vocall musick being
lost by it.  Here was a great press of people; but I did not see many
pleased with it, only the instrumental musick he had brought by practice
to play very just.  So thence late in the dark round by the wall home by
coach, and there to sing and sup with my wife, and look upon our pretty
girle, and so to bed.

2nd.  Up, and very busy all the morning, upon my accounts of Tangier, to
present to the Commissioners of the Treasury in the afternoon, and the
like upon the accounts of the office.  This morning come to me Mr. Gawden
about business, with his gold chain about his neck, as being Sheriffe of
the City this year.  At noon to the Treasury Office again, and there dined
and did business, and then by coach to the New Exchange, and there met my
wife and girl, and took them to the King's house to see "The Traytour,"
which still I like as a very good play; and thence, round by the wall,
home, having drunk at the Cock ale-house, as I of late have used to do,
and so home and to my chamber to read, and so to supper and to bed.

3rd.  Up, and going out of doors, I understand that Sir W. Batten is gone
to bed on a sudden again this morning, being struck very ill, and I
confess I have observed him for these last two months to look very ill and
to look worse and worse.  I to St. James's (though it be a sitting day) to
the Duke of York, about the Tangier Committee, which met this morning, and
he come to us, and the Charter for the City of Tangier was read and the
form of the Court Merchant.  That being done Sir W. Coventry took me into
the gallery, and walked with me an hour, discoursing of Navy business, and
with much kindness to, and confidence in, me still; which I must endeavour
to preserve, and will do; and, good man! all his care how to get the Navy
paid off, and that all other things therein may go well. He gone, I thence
to my Lady Peterborough, who sent for me; and with her an hour talking
about her husband's pension, and how she hath got an order for its being
paid again; though, I believe, for all that order, it will hardly be; but
of that I said nothing; but her design is to get it paid again: and how to
raise money upon it, to clear it from the engagement which lies upon it to
some citizens, who lent her husband money, without her knowledge, upon it,
to vast loss.  But in the midst of all the joy in the house there were
all sorts of anxieties too!

CHAPTER XX
IN THE FAMILY CIRCLE

It is not morality that rules the world, but a hardened form of it called
"custom." As the world is now disposed, it would rather forgive an offense
against morality than an offense against custom. Happy are those times
and countries in which morality and custom are still one.
Every dispute that arises, on a small scale as well as on a large one, in
general as well as in particular, hinges on the effort to reconcile the
contradiction between these two; and to melt the hardened form of
custom back into the true ore of morality, and stamp the coin anew
according to its value.

Even here, in this little story dealing with people who live apart from the
great tumult of the world, the reflection of this truth is seen.

The mother, who was secretly the most rejoiced over the happy realization
of her hopes, was yet full of peculiar anxiety concerning the opinion
of the world.

"After all," she said, complainingly, to Amrei, "you did a thoughtless
thing to come into the house in the way you did, so that we cannot go
and fetch you to the wedding. It was not good, not customary. If I could
only send you away for a short time, or else John, so that it would all
be more according to rule."
And to John she said plaintively:

"I hear already the talk there'll be if you marry in such a hurry.
People will say: 'Twice asked, the third time persuaded--that's the way
worthless people do it!'"
But she allowed herself to be pacified by both of them, and smiled when
John said:

"Mother, you have studied up everything, like a clergyman. Then tell me,
why should decent people refrain from doing something, simply because
indecent people use it as a cloak? Can any one say anything bad about
me?"
"No,--you have been a good lad all your life."
"Well, then let them have a little confidence in me now, and believe
that a thing may be good, even if it does not look so at first sight. I
have a right to ask that much of them. The way Amrei and I came together
was out of the usual order, to be sure, and the affair has gone on in
its own way from the very beginning. But it wasn't a bad way. Why, it's
like a miracle, if we look at it rightly. And what is it to us if people
refuse to believe in miracles nowadays, and prefer to find all sorts
of badness in these things? One must have courage and not ask the world's
opinion in everything. The clergyman at Hirlingen once said: 'If a prophet
were to rise today, he would first have to pass the government examination
and show that what he wanted was in the regular order.' Now, mother, when
one knows for oneself that something is right, then it is best to go forward
in a straight line and push aside, right and left, whatever stands in one's
way. Let people stare and wonder for a while--they will think better
of it in time."
The mother very likely felt that a thing might be accepted as a miracle if
it came in the form of a sudden, happy event, but that even the most unusual
things later on must gradually conform to the laws of tradition and of
strong, established custom. The wedding might appear as a miracle,
but the marriage, which involved a continuance, would not. She therefore
said:

"With all these people, whom you now look at with proud indifference, because
you know that you are doing right--with all these people you'll have to
live, and you'll expect them, not to look at you askance, but to
give you due respect. Now if they are to do that, you must give and allow
them what they are accustomed to demand. You cannot force them to make an
exception in your case, and you can't run after each one separately and
say: 'If you knew how it all came about, you would say that I was
quite right in doing it.'"
But John rejoined:

"You shall see that nobody will have anything to say against my Amrei,
when he or she has known her a single hour!"
And he resorted to a good way, not only of pacifying his mother, but also
of causing her to rejoice in her innermost soul. He reported to her how all
the warnings she had given him, and all the ways of testing a girl she
had enumerated, had found exact correspondence in Amrei, as if she had
been made to order. And she could not help laughing, when he concluded:

"You must have had the last in your head upon which the shoes up above are
made; for they fit her who is to run about in them as if they were made
for her." The mother let herself be quieted.

On the Saturday morning previous to the family gathering, Damie made his
appearance; but he was immediately dispatched back to Haldenbrunn to
procure all the necessary papers from the magistrate in the town-hall.

The first Sunday was an anxious day at Farmer Landfried's. The old people
had accepted Amrei, but how would it be with the rest of the family? It
is no easy matter to enter a large family of that kind unless the way is
paved with horses and wagons, and all sorts of furniture and money,
and a number of relatives.

Many wagons arrived that Sunday at Farmer Landfried's from the uplands
and lowlands. There came driving up brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law,
and all their relations.

"John has a wife, and he brought her straight home without her
parents, without a clergyman, and without the authorities having
had a word to say in the matter.

She must be a beauty that he found behind a hedge somewhere!"
This is what all of them were saying.

The horses on the wagons also suffered for what had happened at Farmer
Landfried's. They received many a lash, and when they kicked, they
suffered all the more for it; for whoever was driving whipped them until
his arm was tired. This caused many a wrangle with the wives, who sat beside
the drivers and protested and scolded about such a reckless, cruel way
of driving.

A little fortress of carriages stood in Farmer Landfried's courtyard,
and in the house the entire large family was assembled. There they sat
together in high water-boots, or in clouted laced-boots, and with
three-cornered hats, some worn with the corner, others with the broadside
forward. The women whispered among themselves, and then made signs to their
husbands, or else said to them quietly: "Just let us alone--we will drive
the strange bird out all right." And a bitter, jeering laugh arose when it
was rumored here and there, that Amrei had been a goose-girl.

At last Amrei entered; but she could not offer, her hand to anybody. For she
was carrying a large bottle of red wine under her arm, and so many
glasses, besides two plates of cake, that it seemed as if she had seven
hands. Every finger-joint appeared to be a hand; but she put everything
so gently and noiselessly on the table, on which her mother-in-law had
spread a white cloth, that everybody looked at her in wonder. Then, silently
and without any signs of trepidation, she filled all the glasses, and
said:

"My parents have given me authority to bid you a hearty welcome! Now
drink!"
"We are not used to it in the morning," said a heavy man, with an
uncommonly large nose; and he spread himself out in his chair. This was
George, John's oldest brother.

"We drink only goose-wine (water)," said one of the women; and a
scarcely-suppressed laugh went around the room.

Amrei felt the taunt, but kept her temper; and John's sister was the first
to take the glass and drink to her. She first clinked her glass against
John's with a "May God bless you!" She only half responded to Amrei, who
also held out her glass. Now, the other women considered it impolite, even
sinful,--for, at the first draught, the so-called "John's-draught," it is
looked upon as sinful to hold back--not to respond; and the men also
let themselves be persuaded, so that for a time nothing was heard but
the clinking and putting down of glasses.

     
     "Father is right," old Dame Landfried at last said to her daughter.
     "Amrei looks as if she were your sister, but she resembles still
     more Elizabeth, who died."
     "Yes; none of you have lost by it. If Elizabeth had lived, the
     property would have been smaller by one share anyway," observed
     the father. And the mother added:
     
     "But now she has been given back to us again."
     The old man had hit the spot where, as a matter of fact, all of them
     were sore, although they tried to persuade themselves, and each
     other, that they were prejudiced against Amrei because she had come
     among them without any relatives of her own. And while Amrei
     was talking to John's sister, the old farmer said to his son in a low
     voice:
     
     "One would never imagine, to look at her, what she has. Just
     think!--she has a bag stuffed full of crown thalers! But you
     must not say anything to any one about it."
     This injunction was so well obeyed, that within a few minutes every
     person in the room knew about the bag of thalers, with the exception
of John's sister, who afterward took great credit to herself for
having been so friendly to Amrei, although she thought that Amrei
had not a farthing of her own.

Sure enough! John had gone out, and he was now entering again with a large
bag, on which was written the name "Josenhans of Haldenbrunn;" and when
he poured out the rich contents, which rolled rattling and clinking over
the table, all were dumbfounded. But the most astonished of all were the
father and mother.

So Amrei had really had a secret treasure! For there was much more here
than either one had given her. Amrei did not dare to look up, and every
one praised her for her unexampled humility. And now she succeeded in
winning them all over to her side; and when the numerous members of the
family took their leave in the evening, each one said to her in secret:

"Look you; it was not I who was against you because you had nothing--it
was so-and-so, who was always opposing you. I say now, as I said and thought
before, that even if you had had nothing but the clothes you wore, you
were cut out for our family; and I could not have wished for a better wife
for John, or a better daughter-in-law for the old people."
It was easy to say that now, for they all thought that Amrei had
brought with her a considerable fortune in cash.

In Allgau they talked for years of the wonderful way in which young Farmer
Landfried had brought home his wife, and told how finely he and his wife
had danced together at their wedding, and especially did they praise a
waltz called "Silverstep," the music for which they got from the
lowlands.

And Damie?--he is one of the most noted shepherds in Allgau, and has,
moreover, a lofty name, for he is known in the country as "Vulture Damie."
Why? Because Damie has destroyed the nests of two dangerous vultures, and
thus avenged himself on them for twice having stolen young lambs from him.
If it were the custom to dub men knights nowadays, he would be called
"Damian of Vulturescraig." Moreover, the male side of the Josenhanses of
Vulturescraig will die with him, for he is still a bachelor. But he is
a good uncle--better than the one in America. When the cattle are brought
in at the end of the summer, he has many stories to tell his sister's
children, on winter nights, about life in America, about Coaly Matthew in
Mossbrook Wood, and about shepherds' adventures in the mountains of Allgau.
In particular, he knows a number of funny stories to tell about a cow
which he calls his "herd-cow," and which wears a deep-sounding bell.

     And Damie said once to his sister:
     
     "Dame"--for that is what he always calls her--"Dame, your oldest boy
     takes after you, and uses just such words as you used to. What do
     you think?--the boy said to me today: 'Uncle, your herd-cow is
     your heart-cow too, isn't she?' Yes, the boy is just on your pattern."
     
     Farmer John wanted to have his first little daughter christened
     "Barefoot," but it is no longer permissible to create names out of
     incidents in daily life. The name was not accepted in the church
     register, so that John had the child named "Barbara." But, on his
     own authority, he has changed that name to "Barefoot."
     * * * * *
     
     JEREMIAS GOTTHELF
     * * * * *

ULI, THE FARMHAND
TRANSLATIONS AND SYNOPSES
BY BAYARD QUINCY MORGAN, PH.D.

Instructor in German, University of Wisconsin

CHAPTER I
A MASTER AWAKES; A SERVANT IS AROUSED

A dark night lay upon the earth; still darker was the place where a subdued
voice repeatedly called, "Johannes." It was a tiny chamber in a large
farmhouse; the voice came from the great bed which almost filled the
further end of the room. In it lay a farmer and his wife, and to
him the latter cried "Johannes" until he presently began to grumble
and finally to ask, "What do you want? What is it?"
"You'll have to get up and fodder the stock. It's after half-past
four, and Uli didn't get home till after two and fell downstairs
at that when he tried to get into his room. I should think you'd
have waked up, he made such a noise. He was drunk, and now he won't
want to get up; and anyhow I'd rather he wouldn't take a lantern
into the stable while he's tipsy."
"Servants are a trial nowadays," said the farmer, striking a light
and dressing. "You can hardly get 'em or pay 'em enough, and then
you're supposed to do everything yourself and never say a word about
anything.
You're not master in your own house any more, and you can't do
enough of your own errands to keep from quarrels and from being run
down."
"But you can't let this go on," said his wife; "it's happening too
often. Only last week he went off on two sprees; you know he drew
his pay before Ash Wednesday. I'm not thinking of you alone, but
also of Uli. If nothing's said to him he'll think he's got a right
to go on so, and will keep on worse and worse, and then we'll have
to take it on our consciences; for masters are masters after all,
and let folks say what they will about the new fashion, that it's
nobody's business what the servants do out of working hours, we're
masters in our own house just the same, and we're responsible to
God and men for what we allow in our house and what we overlook in
our servants. Then too I'm thinking of the children. You must take
him into the sitting-room after breakfast, and read him the riot
act."
You must know that there prevails on many farms, especially those
which belong to the real farmer aristocracy--i.e., those which have
for a long time been handed, down in the same family, so that family
customs have been established and family respectability is
cherished--the very pleasant custom of causing absolutely no quarrel,
no violent scene, which could attract the neighbors' attention in
any way. In proud calm the house stands amid the green trees; with
calm, grave demeanor its indwellers move about and in it, and over
the tree-tops sounds at most the neighing of the horses, never the
voices of men. There is little noisy rebuke. Man and wife never
rebuke each other in public; and mistakes of the servants they often
ignore, or make, as it were in passing, a remark, let fall merely
a word or a hint, which reaches only the ear for which it is intended.
When something unusual occurs or the measure is full, they call the
sinner into the sitting-room as unostentatiously as possible, or
seek him out while he is working alone, and "read him the riot act,"
as the saying is; and for this the master has usually prepared
himself carefully. He performs this duty in perfect calm, quite
like a father, keeps nothing from the sinner, not even the bitterest
truth, but gives him a just hearing too, and puts before him the
consequences of his misdoings with respect to his future
destiny.

[Illustration: JEREMIAS GOTTHELF]
And when the master is done he is content, and the affair is settled
to this extent, that neither the rebuked one nor his fellows can
detect the least thing in the conduct of the master--no bitterness,
nor vehemence, nor anything else. These reprimands are mostly of
good effect by virtue of the prevailing fatherly tone, the calmness
of their delivery, and their considerately chosen setting. Of the
self-control and calm serenity in such houses one can scarcely form
a conception.
When the master was almost through in the stable Uli came along,
but in silence; they spoke no word to each other. When the voice
from the kitchen door called them to breakfast the master went at
once to the well-trough and washed his hands, but Uli stood long
undecided. Perhaps he would not have come to breakfast at all if
the mistress herself had not called him again.John's Library, and went to King's College Chapel,
to see the outside of it only; and so to our inne, and with much pleasure
did this, they walking in their pretty morning gowns, very handsome, and I
proud to find myself in condition to do this; and so home to our lodging,
and there by and by, to supper, with much good sport, talking with the
Drawers concerning matters of the town, and persons whom I remember, and
so, after supper, to cards; and then to bed, lying, I in one bed, and my
wife and girl in another, in the same room, and very merry talking
together, and mightily pleased both of us with the girl. Saunders, the
only violin in my time, is, I hear, dead of the plague in the late plague
there.

9th.  Up, and got ready, and eat our breakfast; and then took coach: and
the poor, as they did yesterday, did stand at the coach to have something
given them, as they do to all great persons; and I did give them
something: and the town musique did also come and play: but, Lord! what
sad music they made!  However, I was pleased with them, being all of us in
very good humour, and so through the town, and observed at our College of
Magdalene the posts new painted, and understand that the Vice-Chancellor'
is there this year.  And so away for Huntingdon mightily pleased all along
the road to remember old stories; and come to Brampton at about noon, and
there find my father and sister and brother all well and here laid up our
things, and up and down to see the garden with my father, and the house,
and do altogether find it very pretty; especially the little parlour and
the summerhouses in the garden, only the wall do want greens upon it, and
the house is too low-roofed; but that is only because of my coming from a
house with higher ceilings.  But altogether is very pretty; and I bless
God that I am like to have such a pretty place to retire to: and I did
walk with my father without doors, and do find a very convenient way of
laying out money there in building, which will make a very good seat, and
the place deserves it, I think, very well.  By and by to dinner, and after
dinner I walked up to Hinchingbroke, where my Lady expected me; and there
spent all the afternoon with her: the same most excellent, good, discreet
lady that ever she was; and, among other things, is mightily pleased with
the lady that is like to be her son Hinchingbroke's wife, which I am
mightily glad of.  By and by my wife comes with Willet, my wife in her
velvett vest, which is mighty fine, and becomes her exceedingly.  I am
pleased with my Lady Paulina and Anne, who both are grown very proper
ladies, and handsome enough.  But a thousand questions my Lady asked me,
till she could think of no more almost, but walked up and down the house,
with me. But I do find, by her, that they are reduced to great straits for
money, having been forced to sell her plate, 8 or L900 worth; and she is
now going to sell a suit of her best hangings, of which I could almost
wish to buy a piece or two, if the pieces will be broke.  But the house is
most excellently furnished, and brave rooms and good pictures, so that it
do please me infinitely beyond Audley End.  Here we staid till night
walking and talking and drinking, and with mighty satisfaction my Lady
with me alone most of the day talking of my Lord's bad condition to be
kept in Spayne without money and at a great expense, which (as we will
save the family) we must labour to remove.  Night being come, we took
leave with all possible kindness, and so home, and there Mr. Shepley staid
with us and sapped, and full of good country discourse, and when supper
done took his leave, and we all to bed, only I a little troubled that my
father tells me that he is troubled that my wife shows my sister no
countenance, and, him but very little, but is as a stranger in the house;
and I do observe she do carry herself very high; but I perceive there was
some great falling out when she was here last, but the reason I have no
mind to enquire after, for vexing myself, being desirous to pass my time
with as much mirth as I can while I am abroad.  So all to bed. My wife and
I in the high bed in our chamber, and Willet in the trundle bed, which she
desired to lie in, by us.

10th.  Waked in the morning with great pain of the collique, by cold taken
yesterday, I believe, with going up and down in my shirt, but with rubbing
my belly, keeping of it warm, I did at last come to some ease, and rose,
and up to walk up and down the garden with my father, to talk of all our
concernments: about a husband for my sister, whereof there is at present
no appearance; but we must endeavour to find her one now, for she grows
old and ugly: then for my brother; and resolve he shall stay here this
winter, and then I will either send him to Cambridge for a year, till I
get him some church promotion, or send him to sea as a chaplain, where he
may study, and earn his living.  Then walked round about our Greene, to
see whether, in case I cannot buy out my uncle Thomas and his son's right
in this house, that I can buy another place as good thereabouts to build
on, and I do not see that I can.  But this, with new building, may be made
an excellent pretty thing, and I resolve to look after it as soon as I
can, and Goody Gorum dies.  By this time it was almost noon, and then my
father and I and wife and Willet abroad, by coach round the towne of
Brampton, to observe any other place as good as ours, and find none; and
so back with great pleasure; and thence went all of us, my sister and
brother, and W. Hewer, to dinner to Hinchingbroke, where we had a good
plain country dinner, but most kindly used; and here dined the Minister of
Brampton and his wife, who is reported a very good, but poor man.  Here I
spent alone with my Lady, after dinner, the most of the afternoon, and
anon the two twins were sent for from schoole, at Mr. Taylor's, to come to
see me, and I took them into the garden, and there, in one of the
summer-houses, did examine them, and do find them so well advanced in
their learning, that I was amazed at it: they repeating a whole ode
without book out of Horace, and did give me a very good account of any
thing almost, and did make me very readily very good Latin, and did give
me good account of their Greek grammar, beyond all possible expectation;
and so grave and manly as I never saw, I confess, nor could have believed;
so that they will be fit to go to Cambridge in two years at most.  They
are both little, but very like one another, and well-looked children.
Then in to my Lady again, and staid till it was almost night again, and
then took leave for a great while again, but with extraordinary kindness
from my Lady, who looks upon me like one of her own family and interest.
So thence, my wife and people by the highway, and I walked over the park
with Mr. Shepley, and through the grove, which is mighty pretty, as is
imaginable, and so over their drawbridge to Nun's Bridge, and so to my
father's, and there sat and drank, and talked a little, and then parted.
And he being gone, and what company there was, my father and I, with a
dark lantern; it being now night, into the garden with my wife, and there
went about our great work to dig up my gold. But, Lord!  what a tosse I
was for some time in, that they could not justly tell where it was; that I
begun heartily to sweat, and be angry, that they should not agree better
upon the place, and at last to fear that it was gone but by and by poking
with a spit, we found it, and then begun with a spudd to lift up the
ground.  But, good God! to see how sillily they did it, not half a foot
under ground, and in the sight of the world from a hundred places, if any
body by accident were near hand, and within sight of a neighbour's window,
and their hearing also, being close by: only my father says that he saw
them all gone to church before he begun the work, when he laid the money,
but that do not excuse it to me.  But I was out of my wits almost, and the
more from that, upon my lifting up the earth with the spudd, I did discern
that I had scattered the pieces of gold round about the ground among the
grass and loose earth; and taking up the iron head-pieces wherein they
were put, I perceive the earth was got among the gold, and wet, so that
the bags were all rotten, and all the notes, that I could not tell what in
the world to say to it, not knowing how to judge what was wanting, or what
had been lost by Gibson in his coming down: which, all put together, did
make me mad; and at last was forced to take up the head-pieces, dirt and
all, and as many of the scattered pieces as I could with the dirt discern
by the candlelight, and carry them up into my brother's chamber, and there
locke them up till I had eat a little supper: and then, all people going
to bed, W. Hewer and I did all alone, with several pails of water and
basins, at last wash the dirt off of the pieces, and parted the pieces and
the dirt, and then begun to tell [them]; and by a note which I had of the
value of the whole in my pocket, do find that there was short above a
hundred pieces, which did make me mad; and considering that the
neighbour's house was so near that we could not suppose we could speak one
to another in the garden at the place where the gold lay--especially my
father being deaf--but they must know what we had been doing on, I feared
that they might in the night come and gather some pieces and prevent us
the next morning; so W. Hewer and I out again about midnight, for it was
now grown so late, and there by candlelight did make shift to gather
forty-five pieces more.  And so in, and to cleanse them: and by this time
it was past two in the morning; and so to bed, with my mind pretty quiet
to think that I have recovered so many.  And then to bed, and I lay in the
trundle-bed, the girl being gone to bed to my wife, and there lay in some
disquiet all night, telling of the clock till it was daylight.

11th.  And then rose and called W. Hewer, and he and I, with pails and a
sieve, did lock ourselves into the garden, and there gather all the earth
about the place into pails, and then sift those pails in one of the
summer-houses, just as they do for dyamonds in other parts of the world;
and there, to our great content, did with much trouble by nine o'clock
(and by the time we emptied several pails and could not find one), we did
make the last night's forty-five up seventy-nine: so that we are come to
about twenty or thirty of what I think the true number should be; and
perhaps within less; and of them I may reasonably think that Mr. Gibson
might lose some: so that I am pretty well satisfied that my loss is not
great, and do bless God that it is so well,

     [About the year 1842, in removing the foundation of an old wall,
     adjoining a mansion at Brampton, always considered the quondam
     residence of the Pepys family, an iron pot, full of silver coins,
     was discovered, and taken to the Earl of Sandwich, the owner of the
     house, in whose possession they still remain.  The pot was so much
     corroded, that a small piece of it only could be preserved.  The
     coins were chiefly half-crowns of Elizabeth and the two elder
     Stuarts, and all of a date anterior to the Restoration.  Although
     Pepys states that the treasure which he caused to be buried was gold
     exclusively, it is very probable that, in the confusion, a pot full
     of silver money was packed up with the rest; but, at all events, the
     coincidence appeared too singular to pass over without notice.--B.]

and do leave my father to make a second examination of the dirt, which he
promises he will do, and, poor man, is mightily troubled for this
accident, but I declared myself very well satisfied, and so indeed I am;
and my mind at rest in it, being but an accident, which is unusual; and so
gives me some kind of content to remember how painful it is sometimes to
keep money, as well as to get it, and how doubtful I was how to keep it
all night, and how to secure it to London: and so got all my gold put up
in bags.  And so having the last night wrote to my Lady Sandwich to lend
me John Bowles to go along with me my journey, not telling her the reason,
that it was only to secure my gold, we to breakfast, and then about ten
o'clock took coach, my wife and I, and Willet, and W. Hewer, and Murford
and Bowles (whom my Lady lent me), and my brother John on horseback; and
with these four I thought myself pretty safe.  But, before we went out,
the Huntingdon musick come to me and played, and it was better than that
of Cambridge.  Here I took leave of my father, and did give my sister 20s.
She cried at my going; but whether it was at her unwillingness for my
going, or any unkindness of my wife's, or no, I know not; but, God forgive
me!  I take her to be so cunning and ill-natured, that I have no great
love for her; but only [she] is my sister, and must be provided for.  May
23--A joint official statement issued by Great Britain, France, and Russia
states that for the past month Kurds and the Turkish population of Armenia
have been massacring Armenians, with "the connivance and help of the
Ottoman authorities"; that the inhabitants of 100 villages near Van were
all assassinated; that massacres have taken place at Erzerum, Dertshau,
Moush, Zeitun, and in all Cilicia; that the allied Governments announce
publicly to the Sublime Porte that "they will hold all members of the
Government, as well as such of their agents as are implicated,
personally responsible for such massacres."
June 6--The Krupps have established a large ammunition factory near
Constantinople.

UNITED STATES.

May 3--Government is obtaining official reports on the sinking of the
Gulflight from Ambassadors Page and Gerard.

May 5--State Department makes public the text of its reply to the German
note in the William P. Frye case, which was forwarded on April 28; the
reply declines the suggestion that a German prize court pass on the
legality of the destruction and amount of indemnity; it suggests that
the German Embassy at Washington be authorized to deal with the matter;
it states that unquestionably the destruction of the vessel was
a violation of old treaties between the United States and Prussia.

May 6--The State Department has replied to the German complaint that the
German steamer Odenwald was "attacked" when she attempted to leave San
Juan, Porto Rico, without clearance papers; text not made public.

May 19--American tank steamer Cushing arrives in Philadelphia, and
Captain Herland tells the details of the attack made by a German
aeroplane on April 28, while the ship was in the North Sea; he states
that the aviator manoeuvred to drop a bomb into the funnel, from a
height of 300 feet, but the three bombs thrown missed the ship; he says
the attack took place at 7 P.M., but there was ample light for the aviator
to see the ship's name in eight-foot letters, and the American flags at
the masthead and the taffrail; Secretary Bryan has cabled to Ambassador
Gerard, asking whether the action of the German Government in placing the
William P. Frye case in a prize court is the reply to the American note
stating that the United States did not regard prize court proceedings
with favor.

May 21--Recent orders from the British Government bring up to $100,000,000
the total contracts for munitions of war given to the Bethlehem Steel Company
since hostilities began.

May 22--The French Line has chartered thirty-seven freight steamships to
aid in transporting the huge quantities of munitions of war waiting shipment
from the United States to the allied countries.

May 24--Italy asks the United States to take over Italian diplomatic affairs
at Vienna, and the United States consents; Germany, through Ambassador
Gerard, explains that her action of sending the William P.
Frye case to a prize court is not intended as an answer to the American
note on the matter, but is a necessary procedure under German law.

May 25--United States issues a proclamation of neutrality, under date of May
24, covering the entry of Italy into the war.

May 29--Federal Court at Milwaukee dismisses the action brought by
General Samuel Pearson, former Boer commander, in which he sought
to restrain the Allis-Chalmers Company and others from manufacturing
shrapnel shells, which, it was alleged, were being shipped to the
Allies; the court holds that the relief sought by the plaintiff is
political rather than legal.
June 2--The Allies have assured the State Department that Dr.
Dernburg will be given safe conduct if he wishes to return to
Germany.
June 4--Germany in a note expresses regret for the torpedoing of
the Gulflight, which is stated to have been due to a mistake, and
offers to pay for the damage.Pen to my
Lady Batten, whom I had not seen since she was a widow, which she took
unkindly, but I did excuse it; and the house being full of company, and of
several factions, she against the children, and they against one another
and her, I away, and home to supper, and after supper to bed.

13th (Lord's day).  Up, and by water to White Hall, and thence walked to
Sir W. Coventry's lodgings, but he was gone out, so I to St. James's, and
there to the Duke of York's chamber: and there he was dressing; and many
Lords and Parliament-men come to kiss his hands, they being newly come to
town.  And there the Duke of York did of himself call me to him, and tell
me that he had spoke to the King, and that the King had granted me the
ship I asked for; and did, moreover, say that he was mightily satisfied
with my service, and that he would be willing to do anything that was in
his power for me: which he said with mighty kindness; which I did return
him thanks for, and departed with mighty joy, more than I did expect. And
so walked over the Park to White Hall, and there met Sir H. Cholmly, who
walked with me, and told me most of the news I heard last night of the
Parliament; and thinks they will do all things very well, only they will
be revenged of my Lord Chancellor; and says, however, that he thinks there
will be but two things proved on him; and that one is, that he may have
said to the King, and to others, words to breed in the King an ill opinion
of the Parliament--that they were factious, and that it was better to
dissolve them: and this, he thinks, they will be able to prove; but what
this will amount to, he knows not.  And next, that he hath taken money for
several bargains that have been made with the Crown; and did instance one
that is already complained of: but there are so many more involved in it,
that, should they unravel things of this sort, every body almost will be
more or less concerned.  But these are the two great points which he
thinks they will insist on, and prove against him. Thence I to the Chapel,
and there heard the sermon and a pretty good anthem, and so home by water
to dinner, where Bowies and brother, and a good dinner, and in the
afternoon to make good my journal to this day, and so by water again to
White Hall, and thence only walked to Mrs. Martin's, and there sat with
her and her sister and Borroughs.  .  .  and there drank and talked and
away by water home, and there walked with Sir W. Pen, and told him what
the Duke of York told me to-day about the ship I begged; and he was knave
enough, of his own accord, but, to be sure, in order to his own advantage,
to offer me to send for the master of the vessel, "The Maybolt Galliott,"
and bid him to get her furnished as for a long voyage, and I to take no
notice of it, that she might be the more worth to me: so that here he is a
very knave to the King, and I doubt not his being the same to me on
occasion.  So in a doors and supped with my wife and brother, W. Hewer,
and Willett, and so evened with W. Hewer for my expenses upon the road
this last journey, and do think that the whole journey will cost me little
less than L18 or L20, one way or other; but I am well pleased with it, and
so after supper to bed.

14th.  Close at hand, too, there is a reliefless and relentless smell of
pitch and turpentine; there is a ceaseless melancholy in their sighing and
complaining foliage; one walks over a soundless carpet of beaten yellow
bark and dead spines of the foliage till he feels like a wandering
spirit bereft of a footfall; he tires of the endless tufts of needles
and yearns for substantial, shapely leaves; he looks for moss and grass to
loll upon, and finds none, for where there is no bark there is naked
clay and dirt, enemies to pensive musing and clean apparel. Often a grassy
plain in California, is what it should be, but often, too, it is best
contemplated at a distance, because although its grass blades are
tall, they stand up vindictively straight and self-sufficient, and are
unsociably wide apart, with uncomely spots of barren sand between.

One of the queerest things I know of, is to hear tourists from "the States"
go into ecstasies over the loveliness of "ever-blooming California." And
they always do go into that sort of ecstasies. But perhaps they would modify
them if they knew how old Californians, with the memory full upon them
of the dust-covered and questionable summer greens of Californian "verdure,"
stand astonished, and filled with worshipping admiration, in the presence
of the lavish richness, the brilliant green, the infinite freshness, the
spend-thrift variety of form and species and foliage that make an Eastern
landscape a vision of Paradise itself. The idea of a man falling into
raptures over grave and sombre California, when that man has seen New
England's meadow-expanses and her maples, oaks and cathedral-windowed elms
decked in summer attire, or the opaline splendors of autumn descending
upon her forests, comes very near being funny--would be, in fact, but
that it is so pathetic.
No land with an unvarying climate can be very beautiful. The tropics are
not, for all the sentiment that is wasted on them. They seem beautiful at
first, but sameness impairs the charm by and by. Change is the handmaiden
Nature requires to do her miracles with. The land that has four well-defined
seasons, cannot lack beauty, or pall with monotony.
Each season brings a world of enjoyment and interest in the watching of
its unfolding, its gradual, harmonious development, its culminating
graces--and just as one begins to tire of it, it passes away and a
radical change comes, with new witcheries and new glories in its train.
And I think that to one in sympathy with nature, each season, in its
turn, seems the loveliest.

San Francisco, a truly fascinating city to live in, is stately and handsome
at a fair distance, but close at hand one notes that the architecture is
mostly old-fashioned, many streets are made up of decaying,
smoke-grimed, wooden houses, and the barren sand-hills toward the
outskirts obtrude themselves too prominently. Even the kindly climate
is sometimes pleasanter when read about than personally experienced,
for a lovely, cloudless sky wears out its welcome by and by, and
then when the longed for rain does come it stays.Scowen, who tells me that it is at last carried in the
House that the thanks shall be given to the King--among other things,
particularly for the removal of my Lord Chancellor; but he tells me it is
a strange act, and that which he thinks would never have been, but that
the King did insist upon it, that, since it come into the House, it might
not be let fall.  After walking there awhile I took coach and to the Duke
of York's House, and there went in for nothing into the pit, at the last
act, to see Sir Martin Marrall, and met my wife, who was there, and my
brother, and W. Hewer and Willett, and carried them home, still being
pleased with the humour of the play, almost above all that ever I saw.
Home, and there do find that John Bowles is not yet come thither.  I
suppose he is playing the good fellow in the town.  So to the office a
while, and then home to supper and to bed.

15th.  Up, and to the office, where, Sir W. Pen being ill of the gout, we
all of us met there in his parlour and did the business of the office, our
greatest business now being to manage the pay of the ships in order and
with speed to satisfy the Commissioners of the Treasury.  This morning my
brother set out for Brampton again, and is gone.  At noon home to dinner,
and thence my wife and I and Willet to the Duke of York's house, where,
after long stay, the King and Duke of York come, and there saw "The
Coffee-house," the most ridiculous, insipid play that ever I saw in my
life, and glad we were that Betterton had no part in it.  But here, before
the play begun, my wife begun to complain to me of Willet's confidence in
sitting cheek by jowl by us, which was a poor thing; but I perceive she is
already jealous of my kindness to her, so that I begin to fear this girle
is not likely to stay long with us.  The play done, we home by coach, it
being moonlight, and got well home, and I to my chamber to settle some
papers, and so to supper and to bed.

16th.  Up, and at home most of the morning with Sir H. Cholmly, about some
accounts of his; and for news he tells me that the Commons and Lords have
concurred, and delivered the King their thanks, among other things, for
his removal of the Chancellor; who took their thanks very well, and, among
other things, promised them, in these words, never, in any degree, to
entertain the Chancellor any employment again.  And he tells me that it is
very true, he hath it from one that was by, that the King did, give the
Duke of York a sound reprimand; told him that he had lived with him with
more kindness than ever any brother King lived with a brother, and that he
lived as much like a monarch as himself, but advised him not to cross him
in his designs about the Chancellor; in which the Duke of York do very
wisely acquiesce, and will be quiet as the King bade him, but presently
commands all his friends to be silent in the business of the Chancellor,
and they were so: but that the Chancellor hath done all that is possible
to provoke the King, and to bring himself to lose his head by enraging of
people.  He gone, I to the office, busy all the morning. At noon to Broad
Street to Sir G. Carteret and Lord Bruncker, and there dined with them,
and thence after dinner with Bruncker to White Hall, where the Duke of
York is now newly come for this winter, and there did our usual business,
which is but little, and so I away to the Duke of York's house, thinking
as we appointed, to meet my wife there, but she was not; and more, I was
vexed to see Young (who is but a bad actor at best) act Macbeth in the
room of Betterton, who, poor man! is sick: but, Lord! what a prejudice it
wrought in me against the whole play, and everybody else agreed in
disliking this fellow.  Thence home, and there find my wife gone home;
because of this fellow's acting of the part, she went out of the house
again.  There busy at my chamber with Mr. Yeabsly, and then with Mr.
Lewes, about public business late, and so to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and being sent for by my Lady Batten, I to her, and there she
found fault with my not seeing her since her being a widow, which I
excused as well as I could, though it is a fault, but it is my nature not
to be forward in visits.  But here she told me her condition, which is
good enough, being sole executrix, to the disappointment of all her
husband's children, and prayed my friendship about the accounts of the
prizes, which I promised her.  And here do see what creatures widows are
in weeping for their husbands, and then presently leaving off; but I
cannot wonder at it, the cares of the world taking place of all other
passions.  Thence to the office, where all the morning busy, and at noon
home to dinner, where Mr. John Andrews and his wife come and dined with
me, and pretty merry we were, only I out of humour the greatest part of
the dinner, by reason that my people had forgot to get wine ready, I
having none in my house, which I cannot say now these almost three years,
I think, without having two or three sorts, by which we were fain to stay
a great while, while some could be fetched.  When it come I begun to be
merry, and merry we were, but it was an odd, strange thing to observe of
Mr. Andrews what a fancy he hath to raw meat, that he eats it with no
pleasure unless the blood run about his chops, which it did now by a leg
of mutton that was not above half boiled; but, it seems, at home all his
meat is dressed so, and beef and all, and [he] eats it so at nights also.
Here most of our discourse is of the business of the Parliament, who run
on mighty furiously, having yesterday been almost all the morning
complaining against some high proceedings of my Lord Chief Justice
Keeling, that the gentlemen of the country did complain against him in the
House, and run very high.  It is the man that did fall out with my cozen
Roger Pepys, once, at the Assizes there, and would have laid him by the
heels; but, it seems, a very able lawyer.  After dinner I to the office,
where we all met with intent to proceed to the publique sale of several
prize ships, but upon discourse my Lord Anglesey did discover (which
troubled me that he that is a stranger almost should do more than we
ourselves could) that the appraisements made by our officers were not
above half of what he had been offered for one of them, and did make it
good by bringing a gentleman to give us L700 for the Wildboare, which they
valued but at L276, which made us all startle and stop the sale, and I did
propose to acquaint the Duke of York with it, and accordingly we did agree
on it, and I wrote a severe letter about it, and we are to attend him with
it to-morrow about it.  This afternoon my Lord Anglesey tells us that the
House of Commons have this morning run into the inquiry in many things;
as, the sale of Dunkirke, the dividing of the fleete the last year, the
business of the prizes with my Lord Sandwich, and many other things; so
that now they begin to fall close upon it, and God knows what will be the
end of it, but a Committee they have chosen to inquire into the
miscarriages of the war.  Having done, and being a little tired, Sir W.
Pen and I in his coach out to Mile End Green, and there drank a cup of
Byde's ale, and so talking about the proceedings of Parliament, and how
little a thing the King is become to be forced to suffer it, though I
declare my being satisfied that things should be enquired into, we back
again home, and I to my office to my letters, and so home to supper and to
bed.

18th.  Up, and by coach with Sir W. Pen to White Hall, and there attended
the Duke of York; but first we find him to spend above an hour in private
in his closet with Sir W. Coventry; which I was glad to see, that there is
so much confidence between them.  By and by we were called in and did our
usual business, and complained of the business yesterday discovered of our
officers abusing the King in the appraisement of the prizes.  Here it was
worth observing that the Duke of York, considering what third rate ships
to keep abroad, the Rupert was thought on, but then it was said that
Captain Hubbert was Commander of her and that the King had a mind for
Spragg to command the ship, which would not be well to be by turning out
Hubbert, who is a good man, but one the Duke of York said he did not know
whether he did so well conforme, as at this lime to please the people and
Parliament.  Sir W. Coventry answered, and the Duke of York merrily agreed
to it, that it was very hard to know what it was that the Parliament would
call conformity at this time, and so it stopped, which I only observe to
see how the Parliament's present temper do amuse them all.  Thence to
several places to buy a hat, and books, and neckcloths, and several
errands I did before I got home, and, among others, bought me two new pair
of spectacles of Turlington, who, it seems, is famous for them; and his
daughter, he being out of the way, do advise me two very young sights, as
that that will help me most, and promises me great ease from them, and I
will try them.  At the Exchange I met Creed, and took him home with me,
and dined, and among other things he tells me that Sir Robert Brookes is
the man that did mention the business in Parliament yesterday about my
Lord Sandwich, but that it was seconded by nobody, but the matter will
fall before the Committee for miscarriages.  Thence, after dinner, my wife
and he, and I, and Willet to the King's house, and saw "Brenoralt," which
is a good tragedy, that I like well, and parted after the play, and so
home, and there a little at my office, and so to my chamber, and spent
this night late in telling over all my gold, and putting it into proper
bags and my iron chest, being glad with my heart to see so much of it here
again, but cannot yet tell certainly how much I have lost by Gibson in his
journey, and my father's burying of it in the dirt.  At this late, but did
it to my mind, and so to supper and to bed.

19th.  At the office all the morning, where very busy, and at noon home to
a short dinner, being full of my desire of seeing my Lord Orrery's new
play this afternoon at the King's house, "The Black Prince," the first
time it is acted; where, though we come by two o'clock, yet there was no
room in the pit, but we were forced to go into one of the upper boxes, at
4s. a piece, which is the first time I ever sat in a box in my life.  And
in the same box come, by and by, behind me, my Lord Barkeley [of Stratton]
and his lady; but I did not turn my face to them to be known, so that I
was excused from giving them my seat; and this pleasure I had, that from
this place the scenes do appear very fine indeed, and much better than in
the pit.  The house infinite full, and the King and Duke of York was
there.  By and by the play begun, and in it nothing particular but a very
fine dance for variety of figures, but a little too long.  But, as to the
contrivance, and all that was witty (which, indeed, was much, and very
witty), was almost the same that had been in his two former plays of
"Henry the 5th" and "Mustapha," and the same points and turns of wit in
both, and in this very same play often repeated, but in excellent
language, and were so excellent that the whole house was mightily pleased
with it all along till towards the end he comes to discover the chief of
the plot of the play by the reading of along letter, which was so long and
some things (the people being set already to think too long) so
unnecessary that they frequently begun to laugh, and to hiss twenty times,
that, had it not been for the King's being there, they had certainly
hissed it off the stage.  But I must confess that, as my Lord Barkeley
says behind me, the having of that long letter was a thing so absurd, that
he could not imagine how a man of his parts could possibly fall into it;
or, if he did, if he had but let any friend read it, the friend would have
told him of it; and, I must confess, it is one of the most remarkable
instances that ever I did or expect to meet with in my life of a wise
man's not being wise at all times, and in all things, for nothing could be
more ridiculous than this, though the letter of itself at another time
would be thought an excellent letter, and indeed an excellent Romance, but
at the end of the play, when every body was weary of sitting, and were
already possessed with the effect of the whole letter; to trouble them
with a letter a quarter of an hour long, was a most absurd thing.  After
the play done, and nothing pleasing them from the time of the letter to
the end of the play, people being put into a bad humour of disliking
(which is another thing worth the noting), I home by coach, and could not
forbear laughing almost all the way home, and all the evening to my going
to bed, at the ridiculousness of the letter, and the more because my wife
was angry with me, and the world, for laughing, because the King was
there, though she cannot defend the length of the letter.  So after having
done business at the office, I home to supper and to bed.

20th (Lord's day).  Up, and put on my new tunique of velvett; which is
very plain, but good.  This morning is brought to me an order for the
presenting the Committee of Parliament to-morrow with a list of the
commanders and ships' names of all the fleetes set out since the war, and
particularly of those ships which were divided from the fleete with Prince
Rupert;

     [This question of the division of the fleet in May, 1666, was one
     over which endless controversy as to responsibility was raised.
     When Prince Rupert, with twenty ships, was detached to prevent the
     junction of the French squadron with the Dutch, the Duke of
     Albemarle was left with fifty-four ships against eighty belonging to
     the Dutch.  Albemarle's tactics are praised by Captain Mahan.]

which gives me occasion to see that they are busy after that business, and
I am glad of it.  So I alone to church, and then home, and there Mr. Deane
comes and dines with me by invitation, and both at and after dinner he and
I spent all the day till it was dark in discourse of business of the Navy
and the ground of the many miscarriages, wherein he do inform me in many
more than I knew, and I had desired him to put them in writing, and many
indeed they are and good ones; and also we discoursed of the business of
shipping, and he hath promised me a draught of the ship he is now
building, wherein I am mightily pleased.  This afternoon comes to me
Captain O'Bryan, about a ship that the King hath given him; and he and I
to talk of the Parliament; and he tells me that the business of the Duke
of York's slackening sail in the first fight, at the beginning of the war,
is brought into question, and Sir W. Pen and Captain Cox are to appear
to-morrow about it; and it is thought will at last be laid upon Mr.
Bruncker's giving orders from the Duke of York (which the Duke of York do
not own) to Captain Cox to do it; but it seems they do resent this very
highly, and are mad in going through all business, where they can lay any
fault.  I am glad to hear, that in the world I am as kindly spoke of as
any body; for, for aught I see, there is bloody work like to be, Sir W.
Coventry having been forced to produce a letter in Parliament wherein the
Duke of Albemarle did from Sheernesse write in what good posture all
things were at Chatham, and that the chain was so well placed that he
feared no attempt of the enemy: so that, among other things, I see every
body is upon his own defence, and spares not to blame another to defend
himself, and the same course I shall take.  But God knows where it will
end!  He gone, and Deane, I to my chamber for a while, and then comes
Pelling the apothecary to see us, and sat and supped with me (my wife
being gone to bed sick of the cholique), and then I to bed, after supper.
Pelting tells me that my Lady Duchesse Albemarle was at Mrs. Turner's this
afternoon, she being ill, and did there publickly talk of business, and of
our Office; and that she believed that I was safe, and had done well; and
so, I thank God!  I hear every body speaks of me; and indeed, I think,
without vanity, I may expect to be profited rather than injured by this
inquiry, which the Parliament makes into business.

21st.  Up, and betimes got a coach at the Exchange, and thence to St.
James's, where I had forgot that the Duke of York and family were gone to
White Hall, and thence to Westminster Hall and there walked a little,
finding the Parliament likely to be busy all this morning about the
business of Mr. Bruncker for advising Cox and Harman to shorten sail when
they were in pursuit of the Dutch after the first great victory.  I went
away to Mr. Creed's chamber, there to meet Sir H. Cholmly, about business
of Mr. Yeabsly, where I was delivered of a great fear that they would
question some of the orders for payment of money which I had got them
signed at the time of the plague, when I was here alone, but all did pass.
Thence to Westminster again, and up to the lobby, where many commanders of
the fleete were, and Captain Cox, and Mr. Pierce, the Surgeon; the last of
whom hath been in the House, and declared that he heard Bruncker advise;
and give arguments to, Cox, for the safety of the Duke of York's person,
to shorten sail, that they might not be in the middle of the enemy in the
morning alone; and Cox denying to observe his advice, having received the
Duke of York's commands over night to keep within cannon-shot (as they
then were) of the enemy, Bruncker did go to Harman, and used the same
arguments, and told him that he was sure it would be well pleasing to the
King that care should be taken of not endangering the Duke of York; and,
after much persuasion, Harman was heard to say, "Why, if it must be, then
lower the topsail."  "That's our house. Now, come, get you down.
You can't miss your way now."
John got down and helped Amrei out of the chaise. The girl, holding the
necklace, which she had put into her pocket, like a rosary in her
clasped hands, prayed silently; John also took off his hat, and his lips
moved. The two did not say another word to each other, but Amrei went
on alone. John stood looking after her for a long time, leaning against
the white horse. Once she turned about and tried to coax the dog to return
to his master. But he would not go; he would run aside into the field,
and then start to follow her again; and not until John whistled, did the
creature come back to him.

John drove on to the mill and stopped there. He learned that his father had
been there an hour ago to wait for him, but had gone away again.
John was glad to hear that his father was strong and on his feet again,
and glad because he knew that Amrei would now find both his parents at
home. The people in the mill could not understand why John lingered with
them, and yet would hardly listen to a word they said. He kept going in
and out, and looking up the road toward the farm; for John was very anxious
and restless. He counted the steps that Amrei had to go; now she would
be in the fields, now she would have to go to this, now to that hedge; now
she would be speaking to his parents. And after all he could not completely
satisfy himself as to just what she would be doing.

CHAPTER XVIII
THE FIRST HEARTH-FIRE

Meanwhile Amrei went on, wrapped in thought. Her manner showed the effect
of the self-reliance she had learned to practice in her childhood. It
was not for nothing that she had been accustomed to solve riddles, and that
from day to day she had struggled with life's difficulties. The whole
strength of the character she had acquired was firmly and securely implanted
within her. Without further question, as a man goes forward to meet a
necessity, quiet and self-possessed, so did she, boldly and of good
courage, go on her way.

She had not gone far when she saw a farmer sitting by the wayside, with
a red cane between his legs; and on this cane he was resting his two hands
and his chin.

"God greet you," said Amrei. "Are you enjoying a rest?"
"Yes. Where are you going?"
"Up yonder to the farm. Are you going there too? If so, you may lean on
me."
"Yes, that is the way," said the old man with a grin. "Thirty years ago I
should have cared more about it, if such a pretty girl had said that
to me; I should have jumped like a colt."
"But to those who can jump like colts one doesn't say such things," replied
Amrei, laughing.

"You are rich," said the old man. He seemed to like to talk, and smiled
as he took a pinch of snuff out of his horn snuff-box.

"How can you tell that I am rich?"
"Your teeth are worth ten thousand guilders. There's many a one would give
ten thousand guilders to have them in his mouth."
"I have no time for jesting. Now, God keep you!"
"Wait a little. I'll go with you--but you must not walk too fast." Amrei
carefully helped the old man to his feet, and he remarked:

"You are strong,"--and in his teasing way he made himself more helpless and
heavier than he actually was. As they walked along, he asked:

"To whom are you going at the farm?"
"To the farmer and his wife."
"What do you want of them?"
"That I shall tell them."
"Well, if you want anything of them, you had better turn back at
once.
The mistress would give you something, but she has no authority to,
and the farmer, he's tight--he's got a board on his neck, and a
stiff thumb into the bargain."

"I don't want anything given me--I bring them something," said Amrei.

On the way they met an older man going to the field with his scythe; and
the old farmer walking with Amrei called out to him with a queer blink
in his eyes:

"Do you know if miserly Farmer Landfried is at home?"
"I think so, but I don't know," answered the man with the scythe, and he
turned away into the field.

There was a peculiar twitching in his face. And now, as he walked along, his
shoulders seemed to Amrei to be shaking up and down; he was evidently
laughing. Amrei looked at her companion's face and saw the roguery in it.
Suddenly she recognized in the withered features the face of the man to
whom she had given a jug of water, years ago, on the Holderwasen. Snapping
her fingers softly, she said to herself:

"Stop! Now I know!" And then she added aloud: "It's wrong of you to speak
in that way of the Farmer to a stranger like me, whom you don't know, and
who might be a relative of his. And I'm sure it is not true what you say.
They do say, to be sure, that the Farmer is tight; but when you come right
down to it, I dare say he has an honest heart, and simply doesn't like
to make an outcry about it when he does a good deed.
And a man who has such good children as his are said to be, must be
a good man himself. And perhaps he likes to make himself out bad before
the world, simply because he doesn't care what others think of him;
and I don't think the worse of him for that."
"You have not left your tongue behind you. Where do you come from?"
"Not from this neighborhood--from the Black Forest."
"What's the name of the place?"
"Haldenbrunn."
"Oh! Have you come all the way from there on foot?"
"No, somebody let me ride with him. He's the son of the Farmer yonder--a
good, honest man."
"Ah, at his age I should have let you ride with me too!"
They had now come to the farm, and the old man went with Amrei into the
room and cried:

"Mother, where are you?"
The wife came out of another room, and Amrei's hands trembled; she would
gladly have fallen upon her neck--but she could not--she dared
not.

Then the Farmer, bursting into laughter, said:

"Just think, dame! Here's a girl from Haldenbrunn, and she has something
to say to Farmer Landfried and his wife, but she won't tell me what
it is. Now do you tell her what my name is."
"Why, that's the Farmer himself," said the woman; and she welcomed the old
man home by taking his hat from his head and hanging it up
on a peg over the stove.

"Do you see now?" said the old man to Amrei, triumphantly. "Now say what
you like."
"Won't you sit down," said the mother, pointing to a chair.

Amrei drew a deep breath and began:
"You may believe me when I say that no child could have thought
more about you than I have done, long ago, long before these last
days.

Do you remember Josenhans, by the pond, where the road turns off to
Endringen?"
"Surely, surely!" said the two old people.

"Well, I am Josenhans's daughter!"
"Why, I thought I knew you!" exclaimed the old woman. "God greet you!"
She held out her hand to Amrei, and said: "You have grown to be a strong,
comely girl. Now tell me what has brought you here."
"She rode part of the way with our John," the Farmer interposed. "He'll
be here directly."
The mother gave a start. She had an inkling of something to come, and
reminded her husband that, when John went away, she had thought of
the Josenhans children.

"And I have a remembrance from both of you," said Amrei, and she brought out
the necklace and the piece of money wrapped in paper. "You gave me that
the last time you were in our village."
"See there--you lied to me, you told me that you had lost it," cried the
Farmer to his wife, reproachfully.

"And here," continued Amrei, holding out to him the groschen in its paper
cover; "here's the piece of money you gave me when I was keeping
geese on the Holderwasen, and gave you a drink from my jug."
"Yes, yes, that's all right! But what does it all mean? What you've
had given you, you may keep," said the Farmer.

Amrei stood up and said:

"I have one thing to ask you. Let me speak quite freely for a few minutes,
may I?"
"Yes, why not?"
"Look--your John wanted to take me with him and bring me here as a
maid.
At any other time I would have been glad to serve in your house, indeed,
rather than anywhere else. But now it would have been dishonest; and to
people to whom I want to be honest all my life long, I won't come for the
first time with a lie in my mouth. Now everything must be as open as the
day. In a word, John and I love each other from the bottom of our hearts,
and he wants to have me for his wife."
"Oho!" cried the Farmer, and he stood up so quickly that one could
easily see that his former helplessness had been only feigned. "Oho!"
he called out again, as if one of his horses were running away.

But his wife put out her hand and held him, saying:

"Let her finish what she has to say."
And Amrei went on:

"Believe me, I have sense enough to know that one cannot take a
girl, out of pity, for a daughter-in-law. You can give me something, you
can give me a great deal, but to take me for your daughter-in-law out
of pity, is something you cannot do, and I do not wish you to do it. I
haven't a groschen of money--oh, yes, the groschen you gave me on the
Holderwasen I still have--for nobody would take it for a groschen," she
added, turning to the Farmer, who could not repress a smile. "I have nothing
of my own, nay, worse than that--I have a brother who is strong and
healthy, but for whom I have to provide. I have kept geese, and I have
been the most insignificant person in the village, and all that is true.
But nobody can say the least harm of me, and that, too, is true.
And as far as those things which are really given to people by God are
concerned, I could say to any princess: 'I don't put myself one hair's
breadth behind you, if you have seven golden crowns on your head.' I would
rather have somebody else say these, things for me, for I am not fond of
talking about myself. But all my life I have been obliged to speak for
myself, and today, for the last time, I do it, when life and death are
at stake. By that I mean--don't misunderstand me--if you won't have me, I
shall go quietly away; I shall do myself no harm, I shall not jump into
the water, or hang myself. I shall merely look for a new position, and
thank God that such a good man once wanted to have me for his wife;
and I'll consider that it was not God's will that it should be so--"
Amrei's voice faltered, and her form seemed to dilate. And then her voice
grew stronger again, as she summoned all her firmness and said, solemnly:
"But prove to yourselves--ask yourselves in your deepest conscience,
whether what you do is God's will.--I have nothing more to say."
Amrei sat down. All three were silent for a time, and then the old man
said:

"Why, you can preach like a clergyman."

But the mother dried her eyes with her apron, and said:

"Why not? Clergymen have not more than one mind and one heart!"
"Yes, that's you!" cried the old man with a sneer. "There's something of a
parson in you, too. If any one comes to you with a few speeches like that,
you're cooked directly!"
"And you talk as if you would not be cooked or softened till you die,"
retorted the wife.

"Oh, indeed!"

     said the old man bitterly. "Now look you, you saint from the lowlands;
     you're bringing a fine sort of peace into my house; you have managed
     already to make my wife turn against me--you have captured her
     already.

Well, I suppose you can wait until death has carried one off, and then you
can do what you please."
"No!" exclaimed Amrei, "I won't have that! Just as little as I wish
that John should take me for his wife without your blessing, just so little
do I wish that the sin should be in our hearts, that we should both be
waiting for you to die. I scarcely knew my parents, I cannot
remember them--I only love them as one loves God, without ever having
seen Him.
But I also know what it is to die. Last night I closed Black Marianne's
eyes; I did what she asked me to do all my life long, and yet now that
she is dead, I sometimes think: How often you were impatient and bitter
toward her, and how many a service you might have done her! And now she
is lying there, and it is all over; you can do nothing more for her,
and you can't crave her forgiveness for anything.--I know what it is to
die, and I will not have--"
"But I will!" cried the old man; and he clenched his fists and set his teeth.
"But I will!" he shouted again.

"You stay here, and you belong to us! And now, whosoever likes may come, and
let him say what he pleases.
You, and no one but you, shall have my John!"
The mother ran to the old man and embraced him; and he, not being accustomed
to it, called out in surprise:

"What are you doing?"
"Giving you a kiss. You deserve it, for you are a better man than you
make yourself out to be."
The old man, who all this time had a pinch of snuff between his fingers which
he did not want to waste, took it quickly, and then said:

"Well, I don't object," but he added: "But now I shall dismiss you, for I
have much younger lips to kiss, which taste better. Come here, you disguised
parson."
"I'll come, but first you must call me by name."
"Well, what is your name?"
"You need not know that, for you can give me a name yourself--you know
what name I mean."
"You're a clever one! Well, if you like, come here, daughter-in-law.
Does that name suit you?"
In reply Amrei flung herself upon him.

"Am I not to be asked at all?" complained the mother with a radiant
face.

The old man had become quite saucy in his joy. He took Amrei by the hand,
and asked, in a satirical imitation of a clergyman's voice:

"Now I demand of you, honorable Cordula Catherine, called Dame Landfried,
will you take this--" and he whispered to the girl aside:

"What is your Christian name?"
"Amrei."
Then the Farmer continued in the same tone:

"Will you take this Amrei Josenhans, of Haldenbrunn to be your daughter-in-law,
and never let her have a word to say, as you do to your husband, feed
her badly, abuse her, oppress her, and as they say, bully her generally?"

The old fellow seemed beside himself; some strange revulsion had taken
place within him. And while Amrei hung around the mother's neck, and would
not let her go, the old man struck his red cane on the table and
cried:

"Where's that good-for-nothing, John? Here's a fellow who sends his bride
for us to take care of, and goes wandering about the world himself! Who
ever heard of such a thing?"
Amrei then tore herself away, and said that the wagoner, or some one
else, must be sent at once to the mill to get John, who was waiting
there. The father declared that he ought to be left in suspense in
the mill for at least three hours; that should be his punishment for
having hidden in such a cowardly way behind a petticoat. And when he came
home, he should wear a woman's hood; in fact, he wouldn't have him in
the house, for when John came, he, the father, would have nothing of the
bride at all, and it made him angry already to think of the foolish way
in which they would carry on together.

Meanwhile the mother managed to slip away and send the quick-footed wagoner
to the mill.

And now the mother thought that Amrei ought to have some refreshment.

She wanted to cook an omelette immediately, but Amrei begged to be allowed
to light the first fire in the house that was to prepare something for
herself, and asked that she might cook something for her parents too.
They let her have her way, and the two old people went with her into the
kitchen. She knew how to manage it all so cleverly, seeing at a glance
where everything was, and hardly requiring to ask a single question, that
the old Farmer kept nodding to his wife, and said at last:

"She can do housekeeping like singing at sight; she can read it all
off from the page, like the new schoolmaster."
The three stood by the fire, which was blazing merrily, when John
came in; and the fire was not blazing more merrily on the hearth
than was inward happiness blazing in the eyes of all three. The
hearth and its fire became a holy altar, surrounded by worshippers,
who, however, only laughed and teased one another.
CHAPTER XIX 
SECRET TREASURES
Amrei felt so much at home in the house that, by the second day,
she was acting as if she had been brought up there from childhood.
The old man followed her around and looked on, while she knowingly
took things in hand and accomplished them calmly and steadily,
without hurrying or resting.
There are people who, when they go to get the least thing, a plate
or a jug, disturb the thoughts of everybody in the room, and seem
to drag, so to speak, the attention of all present about with them.
Amrei, on the contrary, knew how to manage and accomplish everything
in such a way that it was restful to watch her work, and people
were consequently so much the more grateful for everything she did
for them. How often had the Farmer complained about the fact that,
when the salt was wanted, some one always had to rise from the table
to get it! But now Amrei herself set the table, and she took care
to put the salt-cellar on immediately after the cloth was spread.
When the Farmer praised Amrei for this, his wife said with a
smile:
"You talk as if you had not lived at all until now, and as if you
had always been obliged to eat your food without salt or seasoning!"

And then John told them that Amrei was also called the Salt Countess,
and he related the story of the King and his Daughter.
It was a happy family--in the parlor, in the yard, in the field.
The Farmer often said that his food for years had not tasted so
good to him as it did now; and he used to get Amrei to prepare
things for him three or four times a day, at quite irregular hours.
And he made her sit with him while he ate it.
The wife, with a feeling of proud satisfaction, took Amrei into the
dairy, and then into the store-rooms. In the latter place she opened
a large, gaily-painted chest, full of fine, bleached linen, and
said:
"This is your outfit--nothing is lacking but shoes. I am very glad
that you kept the shoes you got with your wages, for I have a
superstition about that."
When Amrei questioned her about the way things had been done in the
house hitherto, she nodded approvingly. She did not, however, express
any approval in words, but the confidential tone in which she
discussed ordinary matters made it quite evident that she felt it.
The very supremity of satisfaction lay in her words. And when she
began to depute certain matters in the household management to
Barefoot, she said:
"Child, let me tell you something; if there is anything about our
ways of doing things in the house that doesn't please you, you
needn't be afraid to alter it so that it suits you. I am not one
of those who think that things must always remain just as they were
originally arranged, and that no changes should be made. You have
a perfect right to do as you think best, and I shall be glad to see
a fresh hand at work. Only if you'll listen to me--I advise you,
for your own sake, to do it gradually."
It was pleasant, indeed, to see old experience and young strength
joining hands, physically and mentally. Amrei declared with heartfelt
sincerity that she found everything capitally arranged, and that
she should be only too glad if one day, when she was old, the
household was in as good order as it was now.
"You look far ahead," said the old woman. "And that is a good thing;
for whosoever thinks of the future thinks of the past as well, and
so you will not forget me when I am gone."
Messengers had been sent out to announce the family event to the
sons and sons-in-law of the house, and to invite them to Zumarshofen
the following Sunday. After that the old man trotted about after
Amrei more than ever; he seemed to have something on his mind which
he wanted to say, but could not express.
There is a saying about buried treasures to the effect that a black
monster squats over them, and that on holy nights a blue flame
appears over the spot where the rich treasures lie buried; furthermore
that children, born on Sunday, can see this flame, and if they
remain calm and unmoved, they can secure the treasure. One would
never have thought that such a treasure was hidden in old Farmer
Landfried, and that squatting over it was black obstinacy and
contempt for humankind. But Amrei saw the little blue flame hovering
above him, and knew how to conduct herself in such a way as to
release the treasure.
No one could tell how she produced such an effect upon him that he
manifestly strove to appear particularly good and benevolent in her
eyes--the mere fact that he took any interest in a poor girl at all
was in itself a wonder. This alone was clear to Amrei--that he did
not want his wife alone to appear as the just and amiable one, and
himself as the angry snarler, of whom people must be afraid. Perhaps
the fact that Amrei, even before she knew who he was, had accused
him of not thinking it worth while to appear good and kind before
men, had opened his heart.
At all events he had so much to say now, every time he encountered
her, that it seemed as if he had been keeping all his thoughts in
a savings-box, which he was at last opening. And in it there were
some very singular old coins which had declined in value, also some
large medals which were no longer in circulation at all, and again
there were some quite fresh ones, of pure, unalloyed silver. He
could not express his thoughts as well as his wife had done on that
day when she had talked with John--his language was stiff in all
its joints--but still he managed to hit the point, and almost gave
himself the appearance of taking Amrei's part against his wife; nor
was it at all amiss when he said:
"Look you, the Dame is like the 'good hour' itself; but the good
hour is not a good day, a good week, or a good year. She is but a
woman, and with women it is always April weather; for a woman is
only half a person--that I maintain, and nobody can dissuade me
from it!" 
"You give us fine praise," said Amrei.
"Yes, it is true," said the Farmer, "I am talking to you. But as I
was saying, the Dame is a good soul, only she's too good.All the morning at this,
at noon home to dinner, with my own family alone.  After dinner, I down to
Deptford, the first time that I went to look upon "The Maybolt," which the
King hath given me, and there she is; and I did meet with Mr. Uthwayte,
who do tell me that there are new sails ordered to be delivered her, and a
cable, which I did not speak of at all to him.  So, thereupon, I told him
I would not be my own hindrance so much as to take her into my custody
before she had them, which was all I said to him, but desired him to take
a strict inventory of her, that I might not be cheated by the master nor
the company, when they come to understand that the vessel is gone away,
which he hath promised me, and so away back again home, reading all the
way the book of the collection of oaths in the several offices of this
nation, which is worth a man's reading, and so away home, and there my boy
and I to sing, and at it all the evening, and to supper, and so to bed.
This evening come Sir J. Minnes to me, to let me know that a
Parliament-man hath been with him, to tell him that the Parliament intend
to examine him particularly about Sir W. Coventry's selling of places, and
about my Lord Bruncker's discharging the ships at Chatham by ticket: for
the former of which I am more particularly sorry that that business of
[Sir] W. Coventry should come up again; though this old man tells me, and,
I believe, that he can say nothing to it.

28th.  Up, and by water to White Hall (calling at Michell's and drank a
dram of strong water, but it being early I did not see his wife), and
thence walked to Sir W. Coventry's lodging, but he was gone out, and so
going towards St. James's I find him at his house which is fitting for
him; and there I to him, and was with him above an hour alone, discoursing
of the matters of the nation, and our Office, and himself. He owns that he
is, at this day, the chief person aymed at by the Parliament--that is, by
the friends of my Lord Chancellor, and also by the Duke of Albemarle, by
reason of his unhappy shewing of the Duke of Albemarle's letter, the other
day, in the House; but that he thinks that he is not liable to any hurt
they can fasten on him for anything, he is so well armed to justify
himself in every thing, unless in the old business of selling places, when
he says every body did; and he will now not be forward to tell his own
story, as he hath been; but tells me he is grown wiser, and will put them
to prove any thing, and he will defend himself: besides that, he will
dispute the statute, thinking that it will not be found to reach him.  We
did talk many things, which, as they come into my mind now, I shall set
down without order: that he is weary of public employment; and neither
ever designed, nor will ever, if his commission were brought to him wrapt
in gold, would he accept of any single place in the State, as particularly
Secretary of State; which, he says, the world discourses Morrice is
willing to resign, and he thinks the King might have thought of him, but
he would not, by any means, now take it, if given him, nor anything, but
in commission with others, who may bear part of the blame; for now he
observes well, that whoever did do anything singly are now in danger,
however honest and painful they were, saying that he himself was the only
man, he thinks, at the council-board that spoke his mind clearly, as he
thought, to the good of the King; and the rest, who sat silent, have
nothing said to them, nor are taken notice of.  That the first time the
King did take him so closely into his confidence and ministry of affairs
was upon the business of Chatham, when all the disturbances were there,
and in the kingdom; and then, while everybody was fancying for himself,
the King did find him to persuade him to call for the Parliament,
declaring that it was against his own proper interest, forasmuch as [it
was] likely they would find faults with him, as well as with others, but
that he would prefer the service of the King before his own: and,
thereupon, the King did take him into his special notice, and, from that
time to this, hath received him so; and that then he did see the folly and
mistakes of the Chancellor in the management of things, and saw that
matters were never likely to be done well in that sort of conduct, and did
persuade the King to think fit of the taking away the seals from the
Chancellor, which, when it was done, he told me that he himself, in his
own particular, was sorry for it; for, while he stood, there was he and my
Lord Arlington to stand between him and harm: whereas now there is only my
Lord Arlington, and he is now down, so that all their fury is placed upon
him but that he did tell the King, when he first moved it, that, if he
thought the laying of him, W. Coventry, aside, would at all facilitate the
removing of the Chancellor, he would most willingly submit to it,
whereupon the King did command him to try the Duke of York about it, and
persuade him to it, which he did, by the King's command, undertake, and
compass, and the Duke of York did own his consent to the King, but
afterwards was brought to be of another mind for the Chancellor, and now
is displeased with him, and [so is] the Duchesse, so that she will not see
him; but he tells me the Duke of York seems pretty kind, and hath said
that he do believe that W. Coventry did mean well, and do it only out of
judgment.  He tells me that he never was an intriguer in his life, nor
will be, nor of any combination of persons to set up this, or fling down
that, nor hath, in his own business, this Parliament, spoke to three
members to say any thing for him, but will stand upon his own defence, and
will stay by it, and thinks that he is armed against all they can [say],
but the old business of selling places, and in that thinks they cannot
hurt him. However, I do find him mighty willing to have his name used as
little as he can, and he was glad when I did deliver him up a letter of
his to me, which did give countenance to the discharging of men by ticket
at Chatham, which is now coming in question; and wherein, I confess, I am
sorry to find him so tender of appearing, it being a thing not only good
and fit, all that was done in it, but promoted and advised by him.  But he
thinks the House is set upon wresting anything to his prejudice that they
can pick up.  He tells me he did never, as a great many have, call the
Chancellor rogue and knave, and I know not what; but all that he hath
said, and will stand by, is, that his counsels were not good, nor the
manner of his managing of things.  I suppose he means suffering the King
to run in debt; for by and by the King walking in the parke, with a great
crowd of his idle people about him, I took occasion to say that it was a
sorry thing to be a poor King, and to have others to come to correct the
faults of his own servants, and that this was it that brought us all into
this condition.  He answered that he would never be a poor King, and then
the other would mend of itself.  I burn to take the road That leads me
back to Rimmon's House,-- But not to bow,--by God, never to bow!

SCENE II
TIME: _Three days later_
_Inner court of the House of Rimmon; a temple with huge pillars at
each side. In the right foreground the seat of the King; at the
left, of equal height, the seat of the High Priest. In the background
a broad flight of steps, rising to a curtain of cloudy gray,
embroidered with two gigantic hands holding thunderbolts.
The temple is in half darkness at first.After this, we fell to other
talk, of my waiting upon him hereafter, it may be, to read a chapter in
Seneca, in this new house, which he hath bought, and is making very fine,
when we may be out of employment, which he seems to wish more than to
fear, and I do believe him heartily.  Thence home, and met news from Mr.
Townsend of the Wardrobe that old Young, the yeoman taylor, whose place my
Lord Sandwich promised my father, is dead.  Upon which, resolving
presently that my father shall not be troubled with it, but I hope I shall
be able to enable him to end his days where he is, in quiet, I went forth
thinking to tell Mrs. Ferrers (Captain Ferrers's wife), who do expect it
after my father, that she may look after it, but upon second thoughts
forbore it, and so back again home, calling at the New Exchange, and there
buying "The Indian Emperour," newly printed, and so home to dinner, where
I had Mr. Clerke, the sollicitor, and one of the Auditor's clerks to
discourse about the form of making up my accounts for the Exchequer, which
did give me good satisfaction, and so after dinner, my wife, and Mercer,
who grows fat, and Willett, and I, to the King's house, and there saw "The
Committee," a play I like well, and so at night home and to the office,
and so to my chamber about my accounts, and then to Sir W. Pen's to speak
with Sir John Chichly, who desired my advice about a prize which he hath
begged of the King, and there had a great deal of his foolish talk of
ladies and love and I know not what, and so home to supper and to bed.

29th.  Up, and at the office, my Lord Bruncker and I close together till
almost 3 after noon, never stirring, making up a report for the Committee
this afternoon about the business of discharging men by ticket, which it
seems the House is mighty earnest in, but is a foolery in itself, yet
gives me a great deal of trouble to draw up a defence for the Board, as if
it was a crime; but I think I have done it to very good purpose.  Then to
my Lady Williams's, with her and my Lord, and there did eat a snapp of
good victuals, and so to Westminster Hall, where we find the House not up,
but sitting all this day about the method of bringing in the charge
against my Lord Chancellor; and at last resolved for a Committee to draw
up the heads, and so rose, and no Committee to sit tonight.  Here Sir W.
Coventry and Lord Bruncker and I did in the Hall (between the two Courts
at the top of the Hall) discourse about a letter of [Sir] W. Coventry's to
Bruncker, whereon Bruncker did justify his discharging men by ticket, and
insists on one word which Sir W. Coventry would not seem very earnest to
have left out, but I did see him concerned, and did after labour to
suppress the whole letter, the thing being in itself really impertinent,
but yet so it is that [Sir] W. Coventry do not desire to have his name
used in this business, and I have prevailed with Bruncker for it.  Thence
Bruncker and I to the King's House, thinking to have gone into a box
above, for fear of being seen, the King being there, but the play being 3
acts done we would not give 4s., and so away and parted, and I home, and
there after a little supper to bed, my eyes ill, and head full of thoughts
of the trouble this Parliament gives us.

30th.  All the morning till past noon preparing over again our report this
afternoon to the Committee of Parliament about tickets, and then home to
eat a bit, and then with Sir W. Pen to White Hall, where we did a very
little business with the Duke of York at our usual meeting, only I
perceive that he do leave all of us, as the King do those about him, to
stand and fall by ourselves, and I think is not without some cares himself
what the Parliament may do in matters wherein his honour is concerned.
Thence to the Parliament-house; where, after the Committee was sat, I was
called in; and the first thing was upon the complaint of a dirty slut that
was there, about a ticket which she had lost, and had applied herself to
me for another.  .  .  . I did give them a short and satisfactory answer
to that; and so they sent her away, and were ashamed of their foolery, in
giving occasion to 500 seamen and seamen's wives to come before them, as
there was this afternoon.  But then they fell to the business of tickets,
and I did give them the best answer I could, but had not scope to do it in
the methodical manner which I had prepared myself for, but they did ask a
great many broken rude questions about it, and were mightily hot whether
my Lord Bruncker had any order to discharge whole ships by ticket, and
because my answer was with distinction, and not direct, I did perceive
they were not so fully satisfied therewith as I could wish they were.  So
my Lord Bruncker was called in, and they could fasten nothing on him that
I could see, nor indeed was there any proper matter for blame, but I do
see, and it was said publicly in the House by Sir T. Clerges that Sir W.
Batten had designed the business of discharging men by ticket and an order
after the thing was done to justify my Lord Bruncker for having done it.
But this I did not owne at all, nor was it just so, though he did indeed
do something like it, yet had contributed as much to it as any man of the
board by sending down of tickets to do it.  But, Lord! to see that we
should be brought to justify ourselves in a thing of necessity and profit
to the King, and of no profit or convenience to us, but the contrary.  We
being withdrawn, we heard no more of it, but there staid late and do hear
no more, only my cozen Pepys do tell me that he did hear one or two
whisper as if they thought that I do bogle at the business of my Lord
Bruncker, which is a thing I neither did or have reason to do in his
favour, but I do not think it fit to make him suffer for a thing that
deserves well.  But this do trouble me a little that anything should stick
to my prejudice in any of them, and did trouble me so much that all the
way home with Sir W. Pen I was not at good ease, nor all night, though
when I come home I did find my wife, and Betty Turner, the two Mercers,
and Mrs. Parker, an ugly lass, but yet dances well, and speaks the best of
them, and W. Batelier, and Pembleton dancing; and here I danced with them,
and had a good supper, and as merry as I could be, and so they being gone
we to bed.

31st.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at noon Mr. Creed and
Yeabsly dined with me (my wife gone to dine with Mrs. Pierce and see a
play with her), and after dinner in comes Mr. Turner, of Eynsbury, lately
come to town, and also after him Captain Hill of the "Coventry," who lost
her at Barbadoes, and is come out of France, where he hath been long
prisoner.  After a great deal of mixed discourse, and then Mr. Turner and
I alone a little in my closet, talking about my Lord Sandwich (who I hear
is now ordered by the King to come home again), we all parted, and I by
water, calling at Michell's, and saw and once kissed su wife, but I do
think that he is jealous of her, and so she dares not stand out of his
sight; so could not do more, but away by water to the Temple, and there,
after spending a little time in my bookseller's shop, I to Westminster;
and there at the lobby do hear by Commissioner Pett, to my great
amazement, that he is in worse condition than before, by the coming in of
the Duke of Albemarle's and Prince Rupert's Narratives' this day; wherein
the former do most severely lay matters upon him, so as the House this day
have, I think, ordered him to the Tower again, or something like it; so
that the poor man is likely to be overthrown, I doubt, right or wrong, so
infinite fond they are of any thing the Duke of Albemarle says or writes
to them!  I did then go down, and there met with Colonel Reames and cozen
Roger Pepys; and there they do tell me how the Duke of Albemarle and the
Prince have laid blame on a great many, and particularly on our Office in
general; and particularly for want of provision, wherein I shall come to
be questioned again in that business myself; which do trouble me.  But my
cozen Pepys and I had much discourse alone: and he do bewail the
constitution of this House, and says there is a direct caball and faction,
as much as is possible between those for and those against the Chancellor,
and so in other factions, that there is nothing almost done honestly and
with integrity; only some few, he says, there are, that do keep out of all
plots and combinations, and when their time comes will speak and see right
done, if possible; and that he himself is looked upon to be a man that
will be of no faction, and so they do shun to make him; and I am glad of
it.  He tells me that he thanks God he never knew what it was to be
tempted to be a knave in his life; till he did come into the House of
Commons, where there is nothing done but by passion, and faction, and
private interest.  Reames did tell me of a fellow last night (one Kelsy, a
commander of a fire-ship, who complained for want of his money paid him)
did say that he did see one of the Commissioners of the Navy bring in
three waggon-loads of prize-goods into Greenwich one night; but that the
House did take no notice of it, nor enquire; but this is me, and I must
expect to be called to account, and answer what I did as well as I can.
So thence away home, and in Holborne, going round, it being dark, I espied
Sir D. Gawden's coach, and so went out of mine into his; and there had
opportunity to talk of the business of victuals, which the Duke of
Albemarle and Prince did complain that they were in want of the last year:
but we do conclude we shall be able to show quite the contrary of that;
only it troubles me that we must come to contend with these great persons,
which will overrun us.  So with some disquiet in my mind on this account I
home, and there comes Mr. Yeabsly, and he and I to even some accounts,
wherein I shall be a gainer about L200, which is a seasonable profit, for
I have got nothing a great while; and he being gone, I to bed.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Commons, where there is nothing done but by passion, and faction
     Disquiet all night, telling of the clock till it was daylight
     Painful to keep money, as well as to get it
     Sorry thing to be a poor King
     Spares not to blame another to defend himself
     Wise man's not being wise at all times


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                               NOVEMBER
                                 1667

November 1st.  Up betimes, and down to the waterside (calling and drinking
a dram of the bottle at Michell's, but saw not Betty), and thence to White
Hall and to Sir W. Coventry's lodging, where he and I alone a good while,
where he gives me the full of the Duke of Albemarle's and Prince's
narratives, given yesterday by the House, wherein they fall foul of him
and Sir G. Carteret in something about the dividing of the fleete, and the
Prince particularly charging the Commissioners of the Navy with
negligence, he says the Commissioners of the Navy whereof Sir W. Coventry
is one.  He tells me that he is prepared to answer any particular most
thoroughly, but the quality of the persons do make it difficult for him,
and so I do see is in great pain, poor man, though he deserves better than
twenty such as either of them, for his abilities and true service to the
King and kingdom.  He says there is incoherences, he believes, to be found
between their two reports, which will be pretty work to consider.  The
Duke of Albemarle charges W. Coventry that he should tell him, when he
come down to the fleete with Sir G. Carteret, to consult about dividing
the fleete, that the Dutch would not be out in six weeks, which W.
Coventry says is as false as is possible, and he can prove the contrary by
the Duke of Albemarle's own letters.  The Duke of Albemarle says that he
did upon sight of the Dutch call a council of officers, and they did
conclude they could not avoid fighting the Dutch; and yet we did go to the
enemy, and found them at anchor, which is a pretty contradiction.  And he
tells me that Spragg did the other day say in the House, that the Prince,
at his going from the Duke of Albemarle with his fleete, did tell him that
if the Dutch should come on, the Duke was to follow him, the Prince, with
his fleete, and not fight the Dutch. Out of all this a great deal of good
might well be picked.  But it is a sad consideration that all this picking
of holes in one another's coats--nay, and the thanks of the House to the
Prince and the Duke of Albemarle, and all this envy and design to ruin Sir
W. Coventry--did arise from Sir W. Coventry's unfortunate mistake the
other day, in producing of a letter from the Duke of Albemarle, touching
the good condition of all things at Chatham just before the Dutch come up,
and did us that fatal mischiefe; for upon this they are resolved to undo
him, and I pray God they do not. He tells me upon my demanding it that he
thinks the King do not like this their bringing these narratives, and that
they give out that they would have said more but that the King hath
hindered them, that I suppose is about my Lord Sandwich.  He is getting a
copy of the Narratives, which I shall then have, and so I parted from him
and away to White Hall, where I met Mr. Creed and Yeabsly, and discoursed
a little about Mr. Yeabsly's business and accounts, and so I to chapel and
there staid, it being All-Hallows day, and heard a fine anthem, made by
Pelham (who is come over) in France, of which there was great expectation,
and indeed is a very good piece of musique, but still I cannot call the
Anthem anything but instrumentall musique with the voice, for nothing is
made of the words at all.  I this morning before chapel visited Sir G.
Carteret, who is vexed to see how things are likely to go, but cannot help
it, and yet seems to think himself mighty safe.  I also visited my Lord
Hinchingbroke, at his chamber at White Hall, where I found Mr. Turner,
Moore, and Creed, talking of my Lord Sandwich, whose case I doubt is but
bad, and, I fear, will not escape being worse, though some of the company
did say otherwise.  But I am mightily pleased with my Lord Hinchingbroke's
sobriety and few words.  After chapel I with Creed to the Exchange, and
after much talk he and I there about securing of some money either by land
or goods to be always at our command, which we think a thing advisable in
this critical time, we parted, and I to the Sun Taverne with Sir W. Warren
(with whom I have not drank many a day, having for some time been strange
to him), and there did put it to him to advise me how to dispose of my
prize, which he will think of and do to my best advantage.  We talked of
several other things relating to his service, wherein I promise
assistance, but coldly, thinking it policy to do so, and so, after eating
a short dinner, I away home, and there took out my wife, and she and I
alone to the King's playhouse, and there saw a silly play and an old one,
"The Taming of a Shrew," and so home and I to my office a little, and then
home to supper and to bed.

2nd.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning; at noon home, and
after dinner my wife and Willett and I to the King's playhouse, and there
saw "Henry the Fourth:" and contrary to expectation, was pleased in
nothing more than in Cartwright's speaking of Falstaffe's speech about
"What is Honour?"  The house full of Parliament-men, it being holyday with
them: and it was observable how a gentleman of good habit, sitting just
before us, eating of some fruit in the midst of the play, did drop down as
dead, being choked; but with much ado Orange Moll did thrust her finger
down his throat, and brought him to life again.  After the play, we home,
and I busy at the office late, and then home to supper and to bed.

3rd (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife to church, and thither comes Roger
Pepys to our pew, and thence home to dinner, whither comes by invitation
Mr. Turner, the minister, and my cozen Roger brought with him Jeffrys, the
apothecary at Westminster, who is our kinsman, and we had much discourse
of Cottenhamshire, and other things with great pleasure. My cozen Roger
did tell me of a bargain which I may now have in Norfolke, that my
she-cozen, Nan Pepys, is going to sell, the title whereof is very good,
and the pennyworth is also good enough; but it is out of the way so of my
life, that I shall never enjoy it, nor, it may be, see it, and so I shall
have nothing to do with it.  After dinner to talk, and I find by discourse
Mr. Turner to be a man mighty well read in the Roman history, which is
very pleasant.  By and by Roger went, and Mr. Turner spent an hour talking
over my Lord Sandwich's condition as to this Parliament, which we fear may
be bad, and the condition of his family, which can be no better, and then
having little to comfort ourselves but that this humour will not last
always in the Parliament, and that [it] may well have a great many more as
great men as he enquired into, and so we parted, and I to my chamber, and
there busy all the evening, and then my wife and I to supper, and so to
bed, with much discourse and pleasure one with another.

4th.  Up betimes, and by water with Sir R. Ford (who is going to
Parliament) to Westminster; and there landing at the New Exchange stairs,
I to Sir W. Coventry: and there he read over to me the Prince's and the
Duke of Albemarle's Narratives; wherein they are very severe against him
and our Office.  But [Sir] W. Coventry do contemn them; only that their
persons and qualities are great, and so I do perceive [he] is afeard of
them, though he will not confess it.  But he do say that, if he can get
out of these briars, he will never trouble himself with Princes nor Dukes
again.  He finds several things in their Narratives, which are both
inconsistent and foolish, as well as untrue, especially as to what the
Duke of Albemarle avers of his knowing of the enemy's being abroad sooner
than he says it, which [Sir] W. Coventry will shew him his own letter
against him, for I confess I do see so much, that, were I but well
possessed of what I should have in the world, I think I could willingly
retreat, and trouble myself no more with it.  Thence home, and there met
Sir H. Cholmly, and he and I to the Excise Office to see what tallies are
paying, and thence back to the Old Exchange, by the way talking of news,
and he owning Sir W. Coventry, in his opinion, to be one of the worthiest
men in the nation, as I do really think he is.  He tells me he do think
really that they will cut off my Lord Chancellor's head, the Chancellor at
this day showing as much pride as is possible to those few that venture
their fortunes by coming to see him; and that the Duke of York is troubled
much, knowing that those that fling down the Chancellor cannot stop there,
but will do something to him, to prevent his having it in his power
hereafter to avenge himself and father-in-law upon them.  And this Sir H.
Cholmly fears may be by divorcing the Queen and getting another, or
declaring the Duke of Monmouth legitimate; which God forbid!  "You can drink
it--she's only a strict Eigenbrötlerin and she has a heavy cross to
bear. I know how to win her back again," said Amrei, consolingly.

CHAPTER VII
THE SISTER OF MERCY

During the next year there was plenty of life in Farmer Rodel's house.
"Barefoot," for so Amrei was now called, was handy in every way, and knew
how to make herself liked by everybody; she could tell the young
farmer's wife, who had come to the place as a stranger, what the customs
of the village were; she studied the habits and characters of those around
her and learned to adapt herself to them. She managed to do all sorts of
kindnesses to old Farmer Rodel, who could not get over his chagrin at
having had to retire so early, and grumbled all day long about it.
She told what a good girl his daughter-in-law was, only that she did not
know how to show it. And when, after scarcely a year, the first
child came, Amrei evinced so much joy at the event, and was so handy at
everything that had to be done, that all in the house were full of her
praise; but according to the fashion of such people they were more
ready to scold her for any trifling omission than to praise her
openly.

But Amrei did not expect any praise. She knew so well how to carry the
little baby to its grandfather, and just when to take it away again, that
it pleased and surprised everybody. And when the baby's first tooth
came, and Amrei exhibited it to the grandfather, the old man said:

"I will give you a sixpence for the pleasure you have given me.

But do you remember the one you stole from me at the wedding--now you
may keep it honestly."
Meanwhile Black Marianne was not forgotten. It was certainly a difficult
task to regain her favor. At first Marianne would have nothing to say to
Barefoot, whose new mistress would not allow her to go to Marianne's,
especially not with the child, as it was always feared that the witch
might do the baby some mischief. Great patience and perseverance were
required to overcome this prejudice, but it was accomplished at last.
Indeed, Little Barefoot brought matters to such a pass that Farmer Rodel
himself several times paid a visit to Black Marianne, a thing which
astonished the entire village. These visits, however, were soon discontinued,
for Marianne once said:

"I am nearly seventy years old and have got on until now without the
friendship of a farmer; and it's not worth while to make a change
now."
Naturally enough Damie was often with his sister. But young Farmer Rodel
objected to this, alleging, not without reason, that it would result in
his having to feed the big boy; for in a large house like his one could
not see whether a servant was not giving him all kinds of things to eat.

He therefore forbade Damie to come to the house, except on Sunday
afternoons.

Damie, however, had already seen too much of the comfort of living in a
wealthy farmer's house; his mouth watered for the flesh-pots, and he wanted
to stay there, if only as a servant. Stone-chipping was such a hungry
life. But Barefoot had many objections to make. She told him to
remember that he was already learning a second trade, and that he
ought to keep at it; that it was a mistake to be always wanting to
begin something new, and then to suppose that one could be happy
in that way.

She said that one must be happy in the place where one was, if one was
ever to be happy at all. Damie allowed himself to be persuaded for a
time. And so great was the acknowledged authority of Little Barefoot
already, and so natural did it seem that she should dictate to her
brother, that he was always called "Barefoot's Damie," as if he were not
her brother, but her son. And yet he was a head taller than she, and
did not act as if he were subordinate to her. Indeed, he often expressed
his annoyance that he was not considered as good as she, merely because
he did not have a tongue like hers in his head. His discontent with himself
and with his trade he always vented first on his sister. She bore it
patiently, and because he showed before the world that she was obliged to
give him his way, she really gained more influence and power through
this very publicity.

For everybody said that it was very good of Amrei to do what she did for
her brother, and she rose in the public estimation by letting him
treat her thus unkindly, while she in turn cared for him like a mother.
She washed and darned for him at night so steadily, that he was one of
the neatest boys in the village; and instead of taking two stout pairs
of shoes, which she received as part of her wages every half year, she
always paid the shoemaker a little extra money to make two pairs for Damie,
while she herself went barefoot; it was only on Sunday, when she went to
church, that she was seen wearing shoes at all.

Little Barefoot was exceedingly annoyed to find that Damie, though no
one knew why, had become the general butt of all the joking and teasing
in the village.

She took him sharply to task for it, and told him he ought not to
tolerate it; but he retorted that she ought to speak to the people about
it, and not to him, for he could not stand up against it.
But that was not to be done--in fact, Damie was secretly not
particularly annoyed by being teased everywhere he went. Sometimes,
indeed, it hurt him to have everybody laugh at him, and to have boys much
younger than himself take liberties with him, but it annoyed him a great
deal more to have people take no notice of him at all, and he would then
try to make a fool of himself and expose himself to insult.

Barefoot, on the other hand, was certainly in some danger of developing into
the hermit Marianne had always professed to recognize in her. She had once
attached herself to one single companion, the daughter of Coaly Mathew;
but this girl had been away for years, working in a factory in Alsace,
and nothing was ever heard of her now. Barefoot lived so entirely by herself
that she was not reckoned at all among the young people of the
village; she was friendly and sociable with those of her own age, but her
only real playmate was Black Marianne. And just because Barefoot lived
so much by herself, she had no influence upon the behavior of Damie, who,
however much he might be teased and tormented, always had to have the company
of others, and could never be alone like his sister.

But now Damie suddenly emancipated himself; one fine Sunday he exhibited to
his sister some money he had received as an earnest from Scheckennarre,
of Hirlingen, to whom he had hired himself out as a farmhand.

"If you had spoken to me about it first," said Barefoot, "I could
have told you of a better place.

I would have given you a letter to Farmer Landfried's wife in Allgau; and
there you would have been treated like a son of the family."
"Oh, don't talk to me about her!" said Damie crossly. "She has owed me a
pair of leather breeches she promised me for nearly thirteen years.
Don't you remember?--when we were little, and thought we had only to knock,
and mother and father would open the door. Don't talk to me of
Dame Landfried! Who knows whether she ever thinks of us, or indeed if
she is still alive?"
"Yes, she's alive--she's related to the family which I serve, and they
often speak of her. And all her children are married, except one son, who
is to have the farm."
"Now you want to make me feel dissatisfied with my new place," said
Damie complainingly, "and you go and tell me that I might have had a
better one. Is that right?" And his voice faltered.

"Oh, don't be so soft-hearted all the time!" said Barefoot. "Is what I
said going to take away any of your good fortune? You are always acting as
if the geese were biting you. And now I will only tell you one thing, and
that is, that you should hold fast to what you have, and remain where you
are. It's no use to be like a cuckoo, sleeping on a different tree every
night. I, too, could get other places, but I won't; I have brought it
about that I am well off here. Look you, he who is every minute running
to another place will always be treated like a stranger--people know
that tomorrow he perhaps won't belong to the house, and so they don't make
him at home in it today."
"I don't need your preaching," said Damie, and he started to go away
in anger. "You are always scolding me, and toward everybody else in
the world you are good-natured."
"That's because you are my brother," said Barefoot, laughing and caressing
the angry boy.

In truth, a strange difference had developed itself between brother and
sister; Damie had a certain begging propensity, and then again the next
minute showed a kind of pride; Barefoot, on the other hand, was always
good-natured and yielding, but was nevertheless supported by a certain
self-respect, which was never detracted from by her willingness to work
and oblige.

She now succeeded in pacifying her brother, and said:

"Look, I have an idea. But first you must be good, for the coat must not
lie on an angry heart. Farmer Rodel still has in his possession our dear
father's clothes; you are tall now, and they will just fit you. Now it
will give you a good appearance if you arrive at the farm in such respectable
clothes; then your fellow-servants will see where you come from, and
what worthy parents you had."
Damie saw that this was sensible, and Barefoot induced old Farmer Rodel--with
considerable difficulty, for he did not want to give up the clothes so
soon--to hand the garments over to Damie. Barefoot at once took him up to
her room and made him put on his father's coat and vest then and there.
He objected, but when Amrei had set her heart on a thing, it had to be
done. The hat, alone, Damie could not be induced to wear; when he had
put on the coat, Amrei laid her hand on his shoulder and said:

"There, now you are my brother and my father, and now the coat is going
to be worn again with a new man in it. Look, Damie,--you have there the
finest coat of honor in the world; hold it in honor, and be as worthy and
honest in it as our dear father was."
She could say no more. She laid her head on her brother's shoulder, and
tears fell upon the paternal coat which had once more been brought to
light.

"You say that I am soft-hearted," said Damie, "and you are much worse
yourself."
And Barefoot was indeed deeply and quickly moved by anything; but she was
strong and light-hearted like a child.

It was true of her, what Marianne had observed when she went to sleep for
the first time in the old woman's house; she was waking and sleeping,
laughing and weeping, almost all at the same time. Every occurrence and
every emotion affected her very strongly, but she soon got over
it and recovered her balance.

She continued to weep.

"You make one's heart so heavy," said Damie complainingly.

[Illustration: TEARS FELL UPON THE PATERNAL COAT]
"It's hard enough to have to go away from one's home and live among strangers.
You ought rather to cheer me up, than to be so--so--."
"Right thinking is the best cheer," replied Amrei.

"It does not weigh upon the heart at all. But you are right--you have
enough to bear; a single pound added to the load might crush you. I am
foolish after all.
But come--let us see now what the sun has to say, when father walks out in
its light once more. No, I didn't mean to say that. Come, you yourself
surely know where we must go, and what you must take leave of; for
even if you are going only a couple of miles away, still you are going
away from the village, and you must bid it good-by. It's hard enough for
me that I am not to have you with me any longer--no, I mean that I am not
to be with you any longer, for I don't want to rule over you, as people
say I do. Yes, yes,--old Marianne was right; _alone_ is a great word;
one can't possibly learn all that it means. As long as you were living on
the other side of the street, even if I did not see you for a week at a
time, it did not matter; for I could have you at any moment, and that
was as good as living together. But now--well, it's not out of the world,
after all. But remember, don't try to lift too much, or hurt yourself in
your work. And when any of your things are torn, send them to me--I'll
mend them for you, and continue to knit for you.
And now, come, let us go to the churchyard."
Damie objected to this plan, making the plea that he felt the parting heavy
enough, and did not want to make it any heavier. His sister gave in. He
took off his father's clothes again, and Barefoot packed them in the sack
she had once worn as a cloak in the days when she kept the geese. This sack
still bore her father's name upon it, and she charged Damie specially
to send her back the sack at the first opportunity.

The brother and sister went out together. A cart belonging to Hirlingen was
passing through the village; Damie hailed it, and quickly loaded his
possessions on it. Then he walked with his sister, hand in hand, out of the
village, and Barefoot sought to cheer him up by saying:

"Do you remember the riddle I asked you there by the oven?"
"No."
"Think: What is best about the oven?"
"No."
"Of the oven this is best, 'tis said, That it never itself doth eat
the bread."

"Yes, you can be cheerful--you're going to stay home."
"But it was your own wish to go away. And you can be cheerful, too, if
you only try hard enough."
In silence she walked on with her brother to the Holderwasen. There, under
the wild pear-tree, she said:

"Here we will say good-by. God bless you, and don't be afraid of anything!"

They shook hands warmly, and then Damie walked on toward Hirlingen, and
Barefoot turned back toward the village. Not until she got to the foot
of the hill, where Damie could not see her, did she venture to lift up
her apron and wipe away the tears that were running down her cheeks.

[Amrei and Damie were separated for three years.

During this time the girl made herself more and more liked and
respected by everybody, not only on account of her pleasant ways
and general helpfulness, but also on account of her self-sacrificing
devotion to her unappreciative brother.

     While her going barefoot and having been a goose-girl caused her to
     be the victim of more or less raillery, still nobody meant it at all
     seriously unless it was Rose, Farmer Rodel's youngest
     daughter, who was jealous of Amrei's popularity. One day when Amrei
     was standing by her window, she heard the fire-bell ringing.]
     "There's a fire at Scheckennarre's, at Hirlingen!" was the cry
     outside.
     The engine was brought out, and Barefoot climbed upon it and rode
     away with the firemen.
     
     "My Damie! My Damie!" she kept repeating to herself in great alarm.
     But it was day-time, and in the day-time people could not be burned
to death in a fire.

And sure enough, when they arrived at Hirlingen, the house was already
in ashes. Beside the road, in an orchard, stood Damie in the act of tying
two piebalds,--fine, handsome horses,--to a tree; and oxen, bulls, and
cows were all running about in confusion.

They stopped the engine to let Barefoot get off, and with a cry of "God
be praised that nothing has happened to you!" she hurried toward her
brother. Damie, however, made no reply, and stood with both hands resting
on the neck of one of the horses.

"What is it? Why don't you speak? Have you hurt yourself?"
"I have not hurt myself, but the fire has hurt me."
"What's the matter?"
"All I have is lost--all my clothes and my little bit of money! I've nothing
now but what's on my back."
"And are father's clothes burnt too?"
"Are they fireproof?" replied Damie, angrily. "Don't ask such stupid
questions!"
Barefoot was ready to cry at this ungracious reception by her brother; but
she quickly remembered, as if by intuition, that misfortune in its first
shock often makes people harsh, unkind, and quarrelsome. So she merely
said:

"Thank God that you have escaped with your life! Father's clothes--to be
sure, in those there's something lost that cannot be replaced--but sooner
or later they would have been worn out anyway."
"All your chattering will do no good," said Damie, still stroking the horse.
"Here I stand like a miserable outcast. If the horses here could
talk, they'd tell a different story. But I am born to misfortune--whatever
I do that's good, is of no use. And yet--" He could say no more;
his voice faltered.

"What has happened?"
"There are the horses, and the cows, and the oxen--not one of them
was burned. Look, that horse over there tore my shirt when I was
dragging him out of the stable. This nigh horse here did me no
harm--he knows me.
Eh, Humple, you know me, don't you? We know each other, don't we?"
The horse laid his head across the neck of the other and stared at
Damie, who went on:
"And when I joyfully went to tell the farmer that I had saved all
his cattle, he said: 'You needn't have done it--they were all well
insured, and I would have been paid good money for them.' 'Yes,'
thinks I to myself, 'but to have let the poor beasts die, is that
nothing? If a thing's paid for, is that all?' The farmer must have
read in my face what I was thinking of, for he says to me: 'Of
course, you saved your clothes and your property?' And then I says:
'No, not a stitch. I ran out to the stable directly.' And then he
says: 'You're a noodle!' 'What?' says I, 'You're insured?--Well
then, if the cattle would have been paid for, my clothes shall be
paid for--and some of my dead father's clothes were among them, and
fourteen guilders, and my watch, and my pipe.' And says he: 'Go
smoke it! My property is insured, but not my servant's property.'
And I says: 'We'll see about that--I'll take it to court!' Whereupon
he says: 'Now you may go at once. Threatening a lawsuit is the same
as giving notice. I would have given you a few guilders, but now
you shan't have a farthing. And now, hurry up--away with you!' And
so here I am. And I think I ought to take my nigh horse with me,
for I saved his life, and he would be glad to go with me, wouldn't
you? But I have never learned to steal, and I shouldn't know what
to do now. The best thing for me to do is to jump into the water.
For I shall never amount to anything as long as I live, and I have
nothing now."
"But I still have something, and I will help you out."
"No, I won't do that any longer--always depending upon you. You
have a hard enough time earning what you have."
Barefoot tried to comfort her brother, and succeeded so far that
he consented to go home with her. But they had scarcely gone a
hundred paces, when they heard something trotting along behind them.
It was the horse; he had broken loose and had followed Damie, who
was obliged to drive back the creature he was so fond of by flinging
stones at it.
Damie was ashamed of his misfortune, and would hardly show his face
to any one; for it is a peculiarity of weak natures that they feel
their strength, not in their own self-respect, but always wish to
show how much they can really do by some visible achievement.
Misfortune they regard as evidence of their own weakness, and if
they cannot hide it, they hide themselves.
Damie would go no farther than the first houses in the village.
Black Marianne gave him a coat that had belonged to her slain
husband; Damie felt a terrible repugnance at putting it on, and
Amrei, who had before spoken of her father's coat as something
sacred, now found just as many arguments to prove that there was
nothing in a coat after all, and that it did not matter in the least
who had once worn it.This the House did receive, and so
parted: at which, I hear, the Commons are like to grow very high, and will
insist upon their privileges, and the Lords will own theirs, though the
Duke of Buckingham, Bristoll, and others, have been very high in the House
of Lords to have had him committed.  This is likely to breed ill blood.
Thence I away home, calling at my mercer's and tailor's, and there find,
as I expected, Mr. Caesar and little Pelham Humphreys, lately returned
from France, and is an absolute Monsieur, as full of form, and confidence,
and vanity, and disparages everything, and everybody's skill but his own.
The truth is, every body says he is very able, but to hear how he laughs
at all the King's musick here, as Blagrave and others, that they cannot
keep time nor tune, nor understand anything; and that Grebus, the
Frenchman, the King's master of the musick, how he understands nothing,
nor can play on any instrument, and so cannot compose: and that he will
give him a lift out of his place; and that he and the King are mighty
great! and that he hath already spoke to the King of Grebus would make a
man piss.  I had a good dinner for them, as a venison pasty and some fowl,
and after dinner we did play, he on the theorbo.  Mr. Caesar on his French
lute, and I on the viol, but made but mean musique, nor do I see that this
Frenchman do so much wonders on the theorbo, but without question he is a
good musician, but his vanity do offend me.  They gone, towards night, I
to the office awhile, and then home and to my chamber, where busy till by
and by comes Mr. Moore, and he staid and supped and talked with me about
many things, and tells me his great fear that all things will go to ruin
among us, for that the King hath, as he says Sir Thomas Crew told him,
been heard to say that the quarrel is not between my Lord Chancellor and
him, but his brother and him; which will make sad work among us if that be
once promoted, as to be sure it will, Buckingham and Bristoll being now
the only counsel the King follows, so as Arlington and Coventry are come
to signify little.  He tells me they are likely to fall upon my Lord
Sandwich; but, for my part, sometimes I am apt to think they cannot do him
much harm, he telling me that there is no great fear of the business of
Resumption!  By and by, I got him to read part of my Lord Cooke's chapter
of treason, which is mighty well worth reading, and do inform me in many
things, and for aught I see it is useful now to know what these crimes
are.  And then to supper, and after supper he went away, and so I got the
girl to comb my head, and then to bed, my eyes bad.  This day, Poundy, the
waterman, was with me, to let me know that he was summonsed to bear
witness against me to Prince Rupert's people (who have a commission to
look after the business of prize-goods) about the business of the
prize-goods I was concerned in: but I did desire him to speak all he knew,
and not to spare me, nor did promise nor give him any thing, but sent him
away with good words, to bid him say all he knew to be true. This do not
trouble me much.

16th.  At the office all the morning, and at noon took my Lord Bruncker
into the garden, and there told him of his man Carcasses proceedings
against the Office in the House of Commons.  I did [not] desire nor advise
him anything, but in general, that the end of this might be ruin to the
Office, but that we shall be brought to fencing for ourselves, and that
will be no profit to the office, but let it light where it would I thought
I should be as well as any body.  This I told him, and so he seeming to be
ignorant of it, and not pleased with it, we broke off by Sir Thos. Harvy's
coming to us from the Pay Office, whither we had sent a smart letter we
had writ to him this morning about keeping the clerks at work at the
making up the books, which I did to place the fault somewhere, and now I
let him defend himself.  He was mighty angry, and particularly with me,
but I do not care, but do rather desire it, for I will not spare him, that
we shall bear the blame, and such an idle fellow as he have L500 a year
for nothing.  So we broke off, and I home to dinner, and then to the
office, and having spent the afternoon on letters, I took coach in the
evening, and to White Hall, where there is to be a performance of musique
of Pelham's before the King.  The company not come; but I did go into the
musique-room, where Captain Cocke and many others; and here I did hear the
best and the smallest organ go that ever I saw in my life, and such a one
as, by the grace of God, I will have the next year, if I continue in this
condition, whatever it cost me. I never was so pleased in my life.
Thence, it being too soon, I to Westminster Hall, it being now about 7 at
night, and there met Mr. Gregory, my old acquaintance, an understanding
gentleman; and he and I walked an hour together, talking of the bad
prospect of the times; and the sum of what I learn from him is this: That
the King is the most concerned in the world against the Chancellor, and
all people that do not appear against him, and therefore is angry with the
Bishops, having said that he had one Bishop on his side (Crofts ), and but
one: that Buckingham and Bristoll are now his only Cabinet Council;

     [The term Cabinet Council, as stated by Clarendon, originated thus,
     in 1640: "The bulk and burden of the state affairs lay principally
     upon the shoulders of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Earl of
     Strafford, and the Lord Cottington; some others being joined to
     them, as the Earl of Northumberland for ornament, the Bishop of
     London for his place, the two Secretaries, Sir H. Vane and Sir
     Francis Windebank, for service and communication of intelligence:
     only the Marquis of Hamilton, indeed, by his skill and interest,
     bore as great a part as he had a mind to do, and had the skill to
     meddle no further than he had a mind.  These persons made up the
     committee of state, which was reproachfully after called the junto,
     and enviously then in the Court the Cabinet Council" ("History of
     the Rebellion," vol. i., p. 211, edit. 1849).]

and that, before the Duke of York fell sick, Buckingham was admitted to
the King of his Cabinet, and there stayed with him several hours, and the
Duke of York shut out.  That it is plain that there is dislike between the
King and Duke of York, and that it is to be feared that the House will go
so far against the Chancellor, that they must do something to undo the
Duke of York, or will not think themselves safe.  That this Lord Vaughan,
that is so great against the Chancellor, is one of the lewdest fellows of
the age, worse than Sir Charles Sidly; and that he was heard to swear, God
damn him, he would do my Lord Clarendon's business.  That he do find that
my Lord Clarendon hath more friends in both Houses than he believes he
would have, by reason that they do see what are the hands that pull him
down; which they do not like.  That Harry Coventry was scolded at by the
King severely the other day; and that his answer was that, if he must not
speak what he thought in this business in Parliament, he must not come
thither.  And he says that by this very business Harry Coventry hath got
more fame and common esteem than any gentleman in England hath at this
day, and is an excellent and able person.  That the King, who not long ago
did say of Bristoll, that he was a man able in three years to get himself
a fortune in any kingdom in the world, and lose all again in three months,
do now hug him, and commend his parts every where, above all the world.
How fickle is this man [the King], and how unhappy we like to be!  That he
fears some furious courses will be taken against the Duke of York; and
that he hath heard that it was designed, if they cannot carry matters
against the Chancellor, to impeach the Duke of York himself, which God
forbid!  That Sir Edward Nicholas, whom he served while Secretary, is one
of the best men in the world, but hated by the Queen-Mother, for a service
he did the old King against her mind and her favourites; and that she and
my Lady Castlemayne did make the King to lay him aside: but this man says
that he is one of the most perfect heavenly and charitable men in the
whole world.  That the House of Commons resolve to stand by their
proceedings, and have chosen a Committee to draw up the reasons thereof to
carry to the Lords; which is likely to breed great heat between them.
That the Parliament, after all this, is likely to give the King no money;
and, therefore, that it is to be wondered what makes the King give way to
so great extravagancies, which do all tend to the making him less than he
is, and so will, every day more and more: and by this means every creature
is divided against the other, that there never was so great an uncertainty
in England, of what would, be the event of things, as at this day; nobody
being at ease, or safe.  Being full of his discourse, and glad of the
rencontre, I to White Hall; and there got into the theater-room, and there
heard both the vocall and instrumentall musick, where the little fellow'
stood keeping time; but for my part, I see no great matter, but quite the
contrary in both sorts of musique.  The composition I believe is very
good, but no more of delightfulness to the eare or understanding but what
is very ordinary.  Here was the King and Queen, and some of the ladies;
among whom none more jolly than my Lady Buckingham, her Lord being once
more a great man.  Thence by coach home and to my office, ended my
letters, and then home to supper, and, my eyes being bad, to bed.

17th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church with my wife.  A dull sermon of Mr.
Mills, and then home, without strangers to dinner, and then my wife to
read, and I to the office, enter my journall to this day, and so home with
great content that it is done, but with sorrow to my eyes.  Then home, and
got my wife to read to me out of Fuller's Church History, when by and by
comes Captain Cocke, who sat with me all the evening, talking, and I find
by him, as by all others, that we are like to expect great confusions, and
most of our discourse was the same, and did agree with that the last
night, particularly that about the difference between the King and the
Duke of York which is like to be.  But the uncle lifted up the clothes,
pointed to the worn-out elbows, and said to Farmer Rodel:

"These are worth very little--I won't have them valued at much. I don't even
know if I can wear them over in America, without being laughed at."
Amrei seized the coat passionately. That her father's coat, which she had
looked upon as a costly and invaluable treasure, should be pronounced of
little value, seemed to grieve her, and that these clothes were to be worn
in America, and ridiculed there, almost bewildered her.
And, anyway, what was the meaning of this talk about America? This mystery
was soon cleared up, when Farmer Rodel's wife came, and with her, Black
Marianne; for Dame Rodel said:

"Harkye, husband--to my mind this thing should not be done so fast, this
sending the children off to America with that man."
"But he is their only living relative, Josenhans' brother."
"Yes, to be sure. But until now he has not done much to show that he is a
relative; and I fancy that this cannot be done without the approval of the
Council, and even the Council cannot do it alone. The children have a legal
right to live here, which cannot be taken away from them in their
sleep, so to speak--for the children are not yet in a position to say what
they want themselves. It's like carrying people off in their sleep."
"My Amrei is intelligent enough. She's thirteen now, but more clever than
many a person of thirty, and she knows what she wants," said Black
Marianne.

"You two ought to have been town-councilors," said Farmer Rodel. "But it's
my opinion, too, that the children ought not to be tied to a rope, like
calves, and dragged away. Well, let the man talk with them himself, and
then we shall see what further is to be done. He is after all their
natural protector, and has the right to stand in their father's place,
if he likes. Harkye; do you take a little walk with your brother's children
outside the village, and you women stay here, and let nobody try to
persuade or dissuade them."
The woodcutter took the two children by the hand, and went out of the
room and out of the house with them. In the street he asked the
children:

"Whither shall we go?"

"If you want to be our father, go home with us," suggested Damie. "Our
house is down yonder."
"Is it open?" asked the uncle.

"No, but Coaly Mathew has the key. But he has never let us go in. I'll
run on and get the key."
Damie released himself quickly, and ran off. Amrei felt like a prisoner
as her uncle led her along by the hand. He spoke earnestly and
confidentially to her now, however, and explained, almost as if he were
excusing himself, that he had a large family of his own and, that he
could hardly get along with his wife and five children. But now a man, who
was the owner of large forests in America, had offered him a free passage
across the ocean, and in five years, when he had cleared away the forest,
he was to have a large piece of the best farm-land as his own property.
In gratitude to God, who had bestowed this upon him for himself and his
family, he had immediately made up his mind to do a good deed by
taking his brother's children with him.

But he was not going to compel them to go; indeed, he would take them only
on the condition that they should turn to him with their whole hearts and
look upon him as their second father.

Amrei looked at him with eyes of wonder. If she could only bring herself
to love this man! But she was almost afraid of him--she could not
help it. And to have him thus fall from the clouds, as it were, and compel
her to love him, rather turned her against him.

"Where is your wife?" asked Amrei. She very likely felt that a woman
would have broached the subject in a more gentle and gradual manner.

"I will tell you honestly," answered her uncle. "My wife does not
interfere in this matter, and says she will neither persuade nor dissuade
me. She is a little sharp, but only at first--if you are good to her, and
you are a sensible child, you can twist her around your finger. And if,
once in a while, anything should happen to you that you don't like, remember
that you are at your father's brother's, and tell me about it alone. I
will help you all I can, and you shall see that your real life is just
beginning."
Amrei's eyes filled with tears at these words; and yet she could say
nothing, for she felt estranged toward this man. His voice appealed
to her, but when she looked at him, she felt as if she would have liked
to run away.

Damie now came with the key. Amrei started to take it from him, but he
would not give it up. With the peculiar pedantic conscientiousness of a
child he declared that he had faithfully promised Coaly Mathew's wife to
give it to nobody but his uncle. Accordingly the uncle took it from him,
and it seemed to Amrei as if a magic secret door were being opened when
the key for the first time rattled in the lock and turned--the hasp went
down and the door opened! A strange chill, like that of a vault, came
creeping from the black front-room, which had also served as a kitchen.
A little heap of ashes still lay on the hearth, and on the door the
initials of Caspar Melchior Balthasar and the date of the parent's
death, were written in chalk.

     Amrei read it aloud--her own father had written it.
     
     "Look," cried Damie, "the eight is shaped just as you make it, and
as the master won't have it--you know--from right to left."

Amrei motioned to him to keep quiet. She thought it terrible and sinful
that Damie should talk so lightly--here, where she felt as if she were
in church, or even in eternity--quite out of the world, and yet in the
very midst of it. She herself opened the inside door; the room was dark
as a grave, for the shutters were closed.

A single sunbeam, shining through a crack in the wall, fell on the angel's
head on the tile stove in such a way that the angel seemed to be
laughing. Amrei crouched down in terror. When she looked up again, her uncle
had opened one of the shutters, and the warm, outside air poured in. How
cold it seemed in there! None of the furniture was left in the room but a
bench nailed to the wall. There her mother used to spin, and there she
had put Amrei's little hands together and taught her to knit.

"Come, children, let us go now," said the uncle. "It is not good to be
here. Come with me to the baker and I will buy you each a white
roll--or do you like biscuits better?"
"No, let us stay here a little longer," said Amrei; and she kept on
stroking the place where her mother had sat. Then, pointing to a white
spot on the wall, she said, half in a whisper: "There our cuckoo clock
used to hang, and there our father's discharge from the army. And there
the hanks of yarn that mother spun used to hang--she could spin even better
than Black Marianne--Black Marianne has said so herself. She always got
a skein more out of a pound than anybody else, and it was always so
even--not a knot in it. And do you see that ring up there on the
ceiling? It was beautiful to see her twisting the threads there. If I
had been old enough to know then, I would not have let them sell mother's
spindle--it would have been a fine legacy for me. But there was nobody
to take any interest in us. Oh, mother dear! Oh, father dear! If you
knew how we have been pushed about, it would grieve you, even in eternity."

Amrei began to weep aloud, and Damie wept with her; even the uncle
dried his eyes.

He again urged them to come away from the place; he was vexed for having
caused himself and the children this grief. But Amrei said in a
decided way:

"Even if you do go, I shall not go with you."
"How do you mean? You will not go with me at all?"
Amrei started; for she suddenly realized what she had said, and it seemed
to her almost as if it had been an inspiration. But presently
she answered:

"No, I don't know about that yet. I merely meant to say, that I shall
not willingly leave this house until I have seen everything again. Come,
Damie, you are my brother--come up into the attic. Do you remember where
we used to play hide-and-seek, behind the chimney? And then we'll look out
of the window, where we dried the truffles. Don't you remember the bright
florin father got for them?"
Something rustled and pattered across the ceiling. All three
started, and the uncle said quickly:

"Stay where you are, Damie, and you too. What do you want up there?
Don't you hear the mice running about?"
"Come with me--they won't eat us!" Amrei insisted. Damie, however,
declared that he would not go, and Amrei, although she felt a secret fear,
took courage and went upstairs alone. But she soon came down again,
looking as pale as death, with nothing in her hand but a bundle of old
straws.

"Damie says he'll go with me to America," said the uncle, as she came
forward. Amrei, breaking up the straws in her hands, replied: "I've nothing
to say against it. I don't know yet what I shall do, but he can go if he
likes."
"No," cried Damie, "I shan't do that. You did not go with Dame Landfried
when she wanted to take you away, and so I shall not go off alone without
you."
"Well, then, think it over--you are sensible enough," said the uncle,
to conclude the matter. He then closed the shutters again, so that they
stood in the dark, and hurried the children out of the room and through
the vestibule, locked the outside door, and went to take the key back
to Coaly Mathew. After that he started for the village with Damie
alone.
When he was some way off, he called back to Amrei:

"You have until tomorrow morning--then I shall go away whether you go with
me or not."
Amrei was left alone. She looked after the retreating figures and
wondered how one person could go away from another.

"There he goes," she thought, "and yet he belongs to you, and you to him."

Strange! As in a sleep-dream, a subject that has been lightly touched upon
is renewed and interwoven with all sorts of strange details, so was it now
with Amrei in her waking-dream. Damie had made but a passing allusion to
the meeting with Farmer Landfried's wife. The remembrance of her had half
faded away; but now it suddenly rose up fresh again--like a picture
of past life in a vision.

     Amrei said to herself, almost aloud:
     
     "Who knows if she may not thus suddenly think of you? One cannot
     tell why she should, and yet perhaps she is thinking of you at
     this very moment. For in this place she promised to be your
     protectress whenever you came to her,--it was yonder by the stunted
     willows. Why is it, that only the trees remain to be seen? Why is not
     a word like a tree, something which stands firmly, something which
     one can hold to. Yes, one can, if one will. Then one is as well off
     as a tree--and what an honorable farmer's wife says, is firm and
     lasting. She, too, wept because she had to go away from her native
     place, although she had been married and away from it for a
     long time. And she has children of her own--one of them is called
     John."
     Amrei was standing by the tree where they had picked the berries.
     She laid her hand upon the trunk and said:
     

"You--why don't you go away, too? Why don't people tell you to emigrate?

Perhaps for you, too, it would be better elsewhere. But, to be sure, you
are too large--you did not place yourself here, and who knows if you
would not die in some other place. You can only be hewn down, not
transplanted. Nonsense! I also had to leave my home. If it were my father,
I should be obliged to go with him--he would not need to ask me.
And he who asks too much, goes astray. No one can advise me in this matter,
not even Marianne. And, after all, with my uncle, it's like this: 'I am
doing you a good turn, and you must repay me.' If he's severe with me, and
with Damie, because he's awkward, and we have to run away, where in this
wide, strange world are we to go? Here everybody knows us, and every hedge,
every tree has a familiar face. 'You know me, don't you?' she said, looking
up at the tree. 'Oh, if you could but speak! God created you too--why
cannot you speak? You knew my father and mother so well--why cannot you
tell me what they would advise me to do?' Oh, dear father! Oh, dear mother!
It grieves me so to have to go away! I have nothing here, and hardly anybody,
and yet I feel as if I were being driven out of a warm bed into the cold
snow. Is this deep sadness that I feel a sign that I ought not to go? Is
it the true voice of conscience, or is it but a foolish fear? Oh, good
Heaven, I do not know! If only a voice from Heaven would come now and tell
me!"
The child trembled with inward terror, and the sense of life's difficulties
for the first time arose vividly within her. And again she went on,
half-thinking, half-talking to herself--but this time in a more
decided way:
"If I were alone, I know for certain that I should not go; I should
stay here.

For it would grieve me too much. Alone I could get along.
Good--remember that; of one thing, then, you are sure--as to yourself you
are decided. But what foolish thoughts are these! How can I imagine that
I am alone, and without Damie? I am not alone--I belong to Damie, and
he belongs to me. And for Damie it would be better if he had a fatherly
hand to guide him--it would help him up. But why do you want anybody else,
Amrei?--can you not take care of him yourself, if it be necessary? If he
once starts out in that way, I can see that he'll be nothing but a servant
all his life, a drudge for other people. And who knows how uncle's children
will behave toward us? Because they're poor people themselves, they'll play
the masters with us. No, no! I'm sure they're good,--and it would be a
fine thing to be able to say: 'Good morning, cousin.' If uncle had only
brought one of the children with him, I could decide much better--I
could find out about things. Oh, good heavens, how difficult all this
is!"
Amrei sat down by the tree. A chaffinch came hopping along, picked up a seed,
looked around him, and flew away. Something crept across Amrei's face; she
brushed it off--it was a ladybird. She let it creep about on her hand,
between the mountains and valleys of her fingers, until it came
to the tip of her little-finger and flew away.
"What a tale he'll have to tell about where he has been!" thought
Amrei.
"A little creature like that is well off indeed--wherever it flies,
it is at home. How the larks are singing! They, too, are well
off--they do not have to think what they ought to say and do. Yonder
the butcher, with his dog, is driving a calf out of the village.
The dog's voice is quite different from the lark's--but then a
lark's singing would never drive a calf along."
"Where's the colt going?" Coaly Mathew called out of his window to
a young lad who was leading a fine colt away by a halter.
"Farmer Rodel has sold it," was the reply; and presently the colt
was heard neighing farther down the valley. Amrei, who had heard
this, again reflected:
"Yes, a creature like that can be sold away from its mother, and
the mother hardly knows of it; and whoever pays for it, to him it
belongs.
But a person cannot be sold, and he who is unwilling cannot be led
away by a halter. Yonder comes Farmer Rodel and his horses, with a
large colt frisking beside them. You will be put in harness soon,
colt, and perhaps you, too, will be sold. A man cannot be bought--he
merely hires himself out. An animal for its work gets nothing more
than its food and drink, while a person gets money as a reward.
Yes, I can be a maid now, and with my wages I can apprentice Damie--he
wants to be a mason. But when we are at uncle's, Damie won't be as
much mine as he is now. Hark! the starling is flying home to the
house which father made for him--he's singing merrily again. Father
made the house for him out of old planks.
I remember his saying that a starling won't go into a house if it's
made of new wood, and I feel just the same. 'You, tree,--now I
know--if you rustle as long as I stay here, I shall remain.'" And
Amrei listened intently; soon it seemed to her as if the tree were
rustling, but again when she looked up at the branches they were
quite still, and she did not know what it was she heard.
Something was now coming along the road with a great cackling and
with a cloud of dust flying before it. It was a flock of geese
returning from the pasture on the Holderwasen. Amrei abstractedly
imitated their cackling for a long time. Then her eyes closed and
she fell asleep.
An entire spring-array of blossoms had burst forth in this young
soul.
The budding trees in the valley, as they drank in the evening dew,
shed forth their fragrance over the child who had fallen asleep on
her native soil, from which she could not tear herself.
It had long been dark when she awoke, and a voice was crying:
"Amrei, where are you?"Having now a mind to go on and to be rid of
Creed, I could not, but was forced to carry him with me to the Excise
Office, and thence to the Temple, and there walked a good while in the
Temple church, observing the plainness of Selden's tomb, and how much
better one of his executors hath, who is buried by him, and there I parted
with him and took coach and home, where to dinner.

23rd.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to
dinner, and all the afternoon also busy till late preparing things to
fortify myself and fellows against the Parliament; and particularly myself
against what I fear is thought, that I have suppressed the Order of the
Board by which the discharging the great ships off at Chatham by tickets
was directed; whereas, indeed, there was no such Order.  So home at night
to supper and to bed.

24th (Lord's day).  In my chamber all the morning (having lain long in
bed) till Mr. Shepley come to dine with me, and there being to return to
Hinchinbroke speedily, I did give him as good account how matters go here
as I could.  After dinner, he being gone, I to the office, and there for
want of other of my clerks, sent to Mr. Gibbs, whom I never used till now,
for the writing over of my little pocket Contract-book; and there I
laboured till nine at night with him, in drawing up the history of all
that hath passed concerning tickets, in order to the laying the whole, and
clearing myself and Office, before Sir R. Brookes; and in this I took
great pains, and then sent him away, and proceeded, and had W. Hewer come
to me, and he and I till past twelve at night in the Office, and he, which
was a good service, did so inform me in the consequences of my writing
this report, and that what I said would not hold water, in denying this
Board to have ever ordered the discharging out of the service whole ships
by ticket, that I did alter my whole counsel, and fall to arme myself with
good reasons to justify the Office in so doing, which hath been but rare,
and having done this, I went, with great quiet in my mind, home, though
vexed that so honest a business should bring me so much trouble; but
mightily was pleased to find myself put out of my former design; and so,
after supper, to bed.

25th.  Up, and all the morning finishing my letter to Sir Robert Brookes,
which I did with great content, and yet at noon when I come home to dinner
I read it over again after it was sealed and delivered to the messenger,
and read it to my clerks who dined with me, and there I did resolve upon
some alteration, and caused it to be new writ, and so to the office after
dinner, and there all the afternoon mighty busy, and at night did take
coach thinking to have gone to Westminster, but it was mighty dark and
foul, and my business not great, only to keep my eyes from reading by
candle, being weary, but being gone part of my way I turned back, and so
home, and there to read, and my wife to read to me out of Sir Robert
Cotton's book about warr, which is very fine, showing how the Kings of
England have raised money by the people heretofore upon the people, and
how they have played upon the kings also.  So after supper I to bed.  This
morning Sir W. Pen tells me that the House was very hot on Saturday last
upon the business of liberty of speech in the House, and damned the vote
in the beginning of the Long Parliament against it; I so that he fears
that there may be some bad thing which they have a mind to broach, which
they dare not do without more security than they now have.  God keep us,
for things look mighty ill!

26th.  Up, all the morning at the office, and then home to dinner, where
dined Mr. Clerke, solicitor, with me, to discourse about my Tangier
accounts, which I would fain make up, but I have not time.  After dinner,
by coach as far as the Temple, and there saw a new book, in folio, of all
that suffered for the King in the late times, which I will buy, it seems
well writ, and then back to the Old Exchange, and there at my goldsmith's
bought a basin for my wife to give the Parson's child, to which the other
day she was godmother.  It cost me; L10 14s. besides graving, which I do
with the cypher of the name, Daniel Mills, and so home to the office, and
then home to supper and hear my wife read, and then to bed.  This
afternoon, after dinner, come to me Mr. Warren, and there did tell me that
he come to pay his debt to me for the kindness I did him in getting his
last ship out, which I must also remember was a service to the King,
though I did not tell him so, as appeared by my advising with the board,
and there writing to Sir W. Coventry to get the pass for the ship to go
for it to Genoa.  Now that which he had promised me for the courtesy was I
take it 100 pieces or more, I think more, and also for the former courtesy
I had done for the getting of his first ship out for this hemp he did
promise me a consideration upon the return of the goods, but I never did
to this day demand any thing of him, only about a month ago he told me
that now his ship was come, and he would come out of my debt, but told me
that whereas he did expect to have had some profit by the voyage, it had
proved of loss to him, by the loss of some ships, or some accidents, I
know not what, and so that he was not able to do what he intended, but
told me that he would present me with sixty pieces in gold. I told him I
would demand nothing of his promises, though they were much greater, nor
would have thus much, but if he could afford to give me but fifty pieces,
it should suffice me.  So now he brought something in a paper, which since
proves to be fifty pieces.  But before I would take them I told him that I
did not insist on anything, and therefore prayed him to consult his
ability before he did part with them: and so I refused them once or twice
till he did the third time offer them, and then I took them, he saying
that he would present me with as many more if I would undertake to get him
L500 paid on his bills.  I told him I would by no means have any promise
of the kind, nor would have any kindness from him for any such service,
but that I should do my utmost for nothing to do him that justice, and
would endeavour to do what I could for him, and so we parted, he owning
himself mightily engaged to me for my kind usage of him in accepting of so
small a matter in satisfaction of all that he owed me; which I enter at
large for my justification if anything of this should be hereafter
enquired after.  This evening also comes to me to my closet at the Office
Sir John Chichly, of his own accord, to tell me what he shall answer to
the Committee, when, as he expects, he shall be examined about my Lord
Sandwich; which is so little as will not hurt my Lord at all, I know.  He
do profess great generousness towards my Lord, and that this jealousy of
my Lord's of him is without ground, but do mightily inveigh against Sir
Roger Cuttance, and would never have my Lord to carry him to sea again, as
being a man that hath done my Lord more hurt than ever he can repair by
his ill advice, and disobliging every body.  He will by no means seem to
crouch to my Lord, but says that he hath as good blood in his veins as any
man, though not so good a title, but that he will do nothing to wrong or
prejudice my Lord, and I hope he will not, nor I believe can; but he tells
me that Sir E. Spragg and Utber are the men that have done my Lord the
most wrong, and did bespatter him the most at Oxford, and that my Lord was
misled to believe that all that was there said was his, which indeed it
was not, and says that he did at that time complain to his father of this
his misfortune.  This I confess is strange to me touching these two men,
but yet it may well enough as the world goes, though I wonder I confess at
the latter of the two, who always professes great love to my Lord.  Sir
Roger Cuttance was with me in the morning, and there gives me an account
so clear about Bergen and the other business against my Lord, as I do not
see what can be laid to my Lord in either, and tells me that Pen, however
he now dissembles it, did on the quarter deck of my Lord's ship, after he
come on board, when my Lord did fire a gun for the ships to leave pursuing
the enemy, Pen did say, before a great many, several times, that his heart
did leap in his belly for joy when he heard the gun, and that it was the
best thing that could be done for securing the fleet.  He tells me also
that Pen was the first that did move and persuade my Lord to the breaking
bulke, as a thing that was now the time to do right to the commanders of
the great ships, who had no opportunity of getting anything by prizes, now
his Lordship might distribute to everyone something, and he himself did
write down before my Lord the proportions for each man.  This I am glad
of, though it may be this dissembling fellow may, twenty to one, deny it.

27th.  Up, and all the morning at my Lord Bruncker's lodgings with Sir J.
Minnes and [Sir] W. Pen about Sir W. Warren's accounts, wherein I do not
see that they are ever very likely to come to an understanding of them, as
Sir J. Minnes hath not yet handled them.  Here till noon, and then home to
dinner, where Mr. Pierce comes to me, and there, in general, tells me how
the King is now fallen in and become a slave to the Duke of Buckingham,
led by none but him, whom he, Mr. Pierce, swears he knows do hate the very
person of the King, and would, as well as will, certainly ruin him.  He do
say, and I think with right, that the King do in this do the most
ungrateful part of a master to a servant that ever was done, in this
carriage of his to my Lord Chancellor: that, it may be, the Chancellor may
have faults, but none such as these they speak of; that he do now really
fear that all is going to ruin, for he says he hears that Sir W. Coventry
hath been, just before his sickness, with the Duke of York, to ask his
forgiveness and peace for what he had done; for that he never could
foresee that what he meant so well, in the councilling to lay by the
Chancellor, should come to this.  As soon as dined, I with my boy Tom to
my bookbinder's, where all the afternoon long till 8 or 9 at night seeing
him binding up two or three collections of letters and papers that I had
of him, but above all things my little abstract pocket book of contracts,
which he will do very neatly.  Then home to read, sup, and to bed.

28th.  Up, and at the office all this morning, and then home to dinner,
and then by coach sent my wife to the King's playhouse, and I to White
Hall, there intending, with Lord Bruncker, Sir J. Minnes, and Sir T. Harvy
to have seen the Duke of York, whom it seems the King and Queen have
visited, and so we may now well go to see him.  But there was nobody could
speak with him, and so we parted, leaving a note in Mr. Wren's chamber
that we had been there, he being at the free conference of the two Houses
about this great business of my Lord Chancellor's, at which they were at
this hour, three in the afternoon, and there they say my Lord Anglesey do
his part admirablyably, and each of us taking a copy of the Guinny
Company's defence to a petition against them to the Parliament the other
day.  So I away to the King's playhouse, and there sat by my wife, and saw
"The Mistaken Beauty," which I never, I think, saw before, though an old
play; and there is much in it that I like, though the name is but improper
to it--at least, that name, it being also called "The Lyer," which is
proper enough.  Here I met with Sir. Richard Browne, who wondered to find
me there, telling the that I am a man of so much business, which
character, I thank God, I have ever got, and have for a long time had and
deserved, and yet am now come to be censured in common with the office for
a man of negligence.  Thence home and to the office to my letters, and
then home to supper and to bed.

29th.  Waked about seven o'clock this morning with a noise I supposed I
heard, near our chamber, of knocking, which, by and by, increased: and I,
more awake, could, distinguish it better.  I then waked my wife, and both
of us wondered at it, and lay so a great while, while that increased, and
at last heard it plainer, knocking, as if it were breaking down a window
for people to get out; and then removing of stools and chairs; and
plainly, by and by, going up and down our stairs.  We lay, both of us,
afeard; yet I would have rose, but my wife would not let me.  Besides, I
could not do it without making noise; and we did both conclude that
thieves were in the house, but wondered what our people did, whom we
thought either killed, or afeard, as we were.  Thus we lay till the clock
struck eight, and high day.  At last, I removed my gown and slippers
safely to the other side of the bed over my wife: and there safely rose,
and put on my gown and breeches, and then, with a firebrand in my hand,
safely opened the door, and saw nor heard any thing.  Then (with fear, I
confess) went to the maid's chamber-door, and all quiet and safe.  Called
Jane up, and went down safely, and opened my chamber door, where all well.
Then more freely about, and to the kitchen, where the cook-maid up, and
all safe.  So up again, and when Jane come, and we demanded whether she
heard no noise, she said, "yes, and was afeard," but rose with the other
maid, and found nothing; but heard a noise in the great stack of chimnies
that goes from Sir J. Minnes through our house; and so we sent, and their
chimnies have been swept this morning, and the noise was that, and nothing
else.  Up in the air the larks, too, are singing, every one for himself--no
one listens to the others or joins in with the others--and yet everything
is--"

     Never in her life had Amrei fallen asleep in broad daylight, or if
     ever, not in the morning.

                         She had now drawn her handkerchief over her eyes, and the sunbeams
were kissing her closed lips, which, even in sleep, were pressed
together defiantly, and the redness of her chin had become deeper.

                              She had slept about an hour, when she awoke with a start.

     The smart-looking young man on the white horse was riding toward
     her, and the horse had just lifted up his fore feet to bring them
down on her chest.

It was only a dream, and Amrei gazed around her as if she had fallen from
the sky. She saw with astonishment where she was, and looked at herself in
wonder. But the sound of music from the village soon aroused the spirit
of life within her, and with new strength she walked back and found that
everything had become more lively. She noticed that she felt more rested
after the many things that she had experienced that day. And now
let only the dancing begin! She would dance until the next morning, and
never rest, and never get tired!

The fresh glow following the sleep of childhood was on her face, and
everybody looked at her in astonishment. She went to the dancing-room; the
music was playing, but in an empty room--for no dancers had come yet.
Only the girls who had been hired to wait upon the guests were
dancing with one another.

Crappy Zachy looked at Barefoot for a longtime, and then shook his head;
evidently he did not know her. Amrei crept along close to the wall, and
so out of the room again. She ran across Farmer Dominic, whose face was
radiant with joy today.

"Beg pardon," said he; "does the mistress belong to the wedding guests?"
"No, I am only a maid. I came with Farmer Rodel's daughter, Rose."
"Good! Then go out to the kitchen and tell the mistress that I sent you,
and that you are to help her. We can't have hands enough in my house
today."
"Because it's you I'll gladly go," said Amrei, and she set out at
once.
On the way she thought how Dominic himself had once been a servant, and--"Yes,
such things happen only once in a century. It cost him many a pang before
he came to the farm--and that's a pity."
Ameile, Dominic's wife, gave a friendly welcome to the new comer, who offered
her services and at the same time took off her jacket, asking if she might
borrow a large apron with a bib on it. But the farmer's wife insisted that
Amrei should satisfy her own hunger and thirst before she set about
serving others. Amrei consented without much ceremony, and won Ameile's
heart by the first words she spoke; for she said:

"I will fall to at once, for I must confess that I am hungry, and I don't
want to put you to the trouble of having to urge me."
Amrei now remained in the kitchen and handed the dishes to the waitresses
in such a knowing way, and managed and arranged everything so well, that
the mistress said:

"You two Amreis, you and my brother's daughter, can manage all this, and
I will stay with the guests."
Amrei of Siebenhofen, who was nicknamed the "Butter Countess," and who was
known far and wide as proud and stubborn, was very friendly with Barefoot.
Once, indeed, the mistress said to the latter:

"It's a pity that you are not a boy; I believe that Amrei would marry
you on the spot, and not send you home, as she does all of her suitors."

"I have a brother who's still single--but he's in America," replied Barefoot,
laughing.

"Let him stay there," said the Butter Countess; "it would be better if
we could send all the men folk away and be here by ourselves."
Amrei did not leave the kitchen until everything had been put back in its
proper place; and when she took off her apron it was still as white and
unruffled as when she had put it on.

"You'll be tired and not able to dance," said the farmer's wife, when Amrei,
with a present, finally took her leave.

"Why should I be tired? This was only play; and, believe me, I feel much
better for having done something today. A whole day devoted to
pleasure!
I shouldn't know how to spend it, and I've no doubt that was why I felt
so sad this morning--I felt that something was missing. But now I feel
quite ready for a holiday--quite out of harness.

     Now I feel just like dancing, if I could only find partners."

     Ameile did not know how to show greater honor to Barefoot
     than by leading her about the house, as if
     she were a wealthy farmer's wife, and showing her
     the large chest full of wedding
     presents in the bridal room.
     She opened the tall, blue cabinets,
     which had the name and the date painted upon them, and
     which were crammed full of linen and all sorts of things, all
     tied up with ribbons of various colors and decorated with artificial
flowers.

                In the wardrobe there were at least thirty dresses, and nearby were
the high beds, the cradle, the distaff with its beautiful spindles,
and everywhere children's clothes were hanging, presents from the
bride's former playmates.

            "Oh, kind Heaven!"

    cried Barefoot; "how happy a child of such a house must be!"
 "Are you envious?" said the farmer's wife; and then remembering that she
                      was showing all these things to a poor girl, she added: "But believe
me, fine clothes are not all; there are many happier who do not get
as much as a stocking from their parents."

                              "Yes, yes, I know that.

                      I am not envious of the beautiful things, but rather of the privilege
that it gives your child to thank you and so many good people for
the lovely things she has received from them.

                        Such clothes from one's mother must keep one doubly warm."

                        The farmer's wife showed her fondness of Barefoot by accompanying
the girl as far as the yard, as she would have done to a visitor
who had eight horses in the stable.

                          There was already a great
                                crowd of
                                  people assembled when Amrei arrived at the dancing-floor.

At first she stood timidly on the threshold. In the empty courtyard, across
which somebody hurried every now and then, a solitary gendarme was pacing
up and down. When he saw Amrei coming along with a radiant face, he
approached her and said:

"Good morning, Amrei! Art thou here too?"
Amrei started and turned quite pale. Had she done anything punishable?

Had she gone into the stable with a naked light? She thought of her
past life and could remember nothing; and yet he had addressed her as
familiarly as if he had already arrested her once. With these thoughts
flitting through her mind, she stood there trembling as if she were a
criminal, and at last answered:

"Thank you. But I don't know why we should call each other 'thou.' Do
you want anything of me?"
"Oh, how proud you are. You can answer me properly. I am not going
to eat you up. Why are you so angry? Eh?"
"I am not angry, and I don't want to harm any one. I am only a foolish
girl."
"Don't pretend to be so submissive--"
"How do you know what I am?"
"Because you flourish about so with that light."
"What? Where? Where have I flourished about with a light? I always
take a lantern when I go out to the stable, but--"
The gendarme laughed and said: "I mean your brown eyes--that's where the
light is. Your eyes are like two balls of fire."
"Then get out of my way, lest you get burnt. You might get blown up with
all that powder in your cartridge-box."
"There's nothing in it," said the gendarme, embarrassed, but wishing to
make some kind of retort. "But you have scorched me already."
"I don't see where--you seem to be all right. But enough! Let me go."
"I'm not keeping you, you little crib-biter. You could lead a man a hard
life, who was fond of you."
"Nobody need be fond of me," said Amrei; and she rushed away as if she had
got loose from a chain.

She stood in the doorway where many spectators were crowded together. A new
dance was just beginning, and she swayed back and forth with the music.
The feeling that she had got the better of some one made her more
cheerful than ever, and she would have taken up arms against the whole
world, as well as against a single gendarme. But her tormentor soon appeared
again; he posted himself behind Amrei and said all kinds of things to
her. She made no answer and pretended not to hear him, every now and then
nodding to the people as they danced by, as if she had been greeted by them.
Only when the gendarme said:

"If I were allowed to marry, I'd take you."
She replied:

"Take me, indeed! But I shouldn't give myself!"
The gendarme was glad to have at least got an answer from her, and
continued:

"And if I were allowed to dance, I would have one with you right now."

"I cannot dance," replied Amrei.

Just then the music ceased. Amrei pushed against the people in front
of her, and made her way in to seek some retired corner. She heard
some one behind her say:

"Why, she can dance better than anybody in this part of the country!"

CHAPTER X
ONLY A SINGLE DANCE

Down from the musicians' platform Crappy Zachy handed a glass to
Amrei.
She took a sip, and handed it back; and Crappy Zachy said:

"If you dance, Amrei, I'll play all my instruments so that the angels
will come down from the sky and join in."
"Yes, but unless an angel comes down from the sky and asks me, I shall not
get a partner," said Amrei, half in fun and half in sorrow. And then she
began to wonder why there had to be a gendarme at a dance; but she did
not hold to this thought long, but immediately went on to say to herself:
"After all, he is a man like anybody else, even though he has a sword on;
and before he became a gendarme, he was a lad like the rest.
It must be a plague for him that he can't dance. But what's that to me?
I, too, am obliged to be a mere spectator, and I don't get any money
for it."
For a short time things went on in a much more quiet and moderate manner
in the dancing-room. For the "English woman," as Agy, the wife of
Severin, the building contractor, was still called, had come to the dance
with her children. The rich wood-merchants set the champagne corks to
popping and offered a glass to the English woman; she drank the health of
the young couple and then made each one happy by a gracious word. A constant
and complacent smile was lighting up the face of everybody. Agy honored
many a young fellow who drank to her from the garlanded glasses, by sipping
from hers in return. The old women, who sat near Barefoot, were loud in
their praises of the English woman, and stood up a long time before she
came when they saw her approaching to speak a few words to them. When Agy
had gone away, the rejoicing, singing, dancing, stamping, and shouting
broke out again with renewed vigor.

Farmer Rodel's foreman now came toward Amrei, and she felt a thrill of
expectation. But the foreman said:

"Here, Barefoot, take care of my pipe for me while I am dancing." And
after that several young girls from her village also came; from one she
received a jacket, from another a cap, or a neckerchief, or a door-key.

She let them hand it all over to her, and stood there with an ever-increasing
load as one dance followed another. All the time she smiled quietly to
herself, but nobody came to ask her to dance. Now a waltz was being played,
so smoothly that one could have swum to it. And then a wild and furious
galop; hurrah! now they are all hopping and stamping and jumping and
panting in supreme delight. And how their eyes glitter! The old women who
are sitting in the corner where Amrei is standing, complain of the
dust and heat; but still, they don't go home.
Then--suddenly Amrei starts; her eyes are fixed upon a handsome young man
who is walking proudly to and fro among the crowd. It is the rider who
had met her that morning, and whom she had snubbed in such a pert way. All
eyes are fastened upon him as he comes forward, his right hand behind him,
and his left holding a silver-mounted pipe. His silver watch-chain
bobs up and down, and how beautiful is his black velvet jacket, and his
loose black velvet trousers, and his red waistcoat! But more beautiful
still is his round head with its curly, brown hair. His brow is white
as snow; but from the eyes down his face is sunburnt, and a light, full
beard covers his chin and cheeks.

"That's a bonny fellow," said one of the old women.
"And what heavenly blue eyes he has!" added another; "they are at
once so roguish and so kind."
"Where can he be from? He's not from this neighborhood," said a
third.

And a fourth observed:
"I'll wager he's another suitor for Amrei."
Barefoot started. What did this mean? What was that she said? But
she soon found out the meaning of it, for the first old lady
resumed:
"Then I'm sorry for him; for the Butter Countess makes fools of all
the men." 
And so the Butter Countess's name was also Amrei.
The young stranger had passed through the room several times, turning
his eyes from one side to the other. Then he suddenly stopped not
far from Barefoot and beckoned to her. A hot flush overspread her
face; she stood riveted to the spot and did not move a muscle. No,
he certainly beckoned to somebody behind you; he cannot mean you.
The stranger pressed forward and Amrei made way for him. He must
be looking for some one else.
"No, it's you I want," said the lad, taking Barefoot's hand. "Will
you dance?"
Amrei could not speak. But what need was there to speak? She threw
everything she had in her arms down into a corner--jackets,
neckerchiefs, caps, pipes, and door-keys--and stood there ready.
The lad threw a dollar up to the musicians; and when Crappy Zachy
saw Amrei on the arm of the stranger, he blew his trumpet until the
very walls trembled. And to the blessed souls above no music can
sound more beautiful than did this to Amrei. She danced she knew
not how; she felt as if she were being carried in the stranger's
arms, as if she were floating in the air, and there seemed to be
no one else there. And, indeed, they both danced so well, that
everybody involuntarily stopped to look at them.
"We are alone," said Amrei during the dance; and then she felt the
warm breath of her partner as he answered:
"Oh that we were alone--alone in the world! Why cannot one go on
dancing thus--on and on to the end of time."
"I feel," said Amrei, "just as if we were two doves flying through
the air. Juhu! away into the heavens!" And "Juhu!" cried the lad
gleefully, "Juhu!" And the sound shot up heavenward like a fiery
rocket. "Juhu!" cried Amrei, rejoicing with him. And on they danced
with ever-increasing joy. Finally Amrei said:
"Tell me--is the music going on? Are the musicians still playing?
I don't hear them any more."
"Of course they are still playing. Don't you hear them?"
"Yes, now I do," said Amrei. And now they stopped, for her partner
probably felt that she was becoming giddy with happiness.
The stranger led Amrei to the table, and gave her wine to drink,
and did not let go her hand. He lifted the Swedish ducat that hung
from her necklace, and said:

"This ducat is in a good place."
"And it came from a good hand," answered Amrei. "That necklace was
given to me when I was a little child." 
"By a relative?"
"No, the lady was no relative."
"Dancing agrees with you apparently."
"Oh, indeed it does! You see, I'm obliged to jump around so much
all the year around when nobody is playing for me--and therefore I
enjoy it doubly now."
"You look as round as a ball," said the stranger in jest. "You must
live where the food is good." 
Amrei replied quickly:
"It's not the food itself that does it, but the way one enjoys it."And tells me of one particular, of
a man that hath a piece of ground lieing in the very middle of the street
that must be; which, when the street is cut out of it, there will remain
ground enough, of each side, to build a house to front the street.  He
demanded L700 for the ground, and to be excused paying any thing for the
melioration of the rest of his ground that he was to keep.  The Court
consented to give him L700, only not to abate him the consideration: which
the man denied; but told them, and so they agreed, that he would excuse
the City the L700, that he might have the benefit of the melioration
without paying any thing for it. So much some will get by having the City
burned!  But he told me that in other cases ground, by this means, that
was not 4d. a-foot before, will now, when houses are built, be worth 15s.
a-foot.  But he tells me that the common standard now reckoned on between
man and man, in places where there is no alteration of circumstances, but
only the houses burnt, there the ground, which, with a house on it, did
yield L100 a-year, is now reputed worth L33 6s. 8d.; and that this is the
common market-price between one man and another, made upon a good and
moderate medium.

4th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon to dinner, and presently
with my wife abroad, whom and her girle I leave at Unthanke's, and so to
White Hall in expectation of waiting on the Duke of York to-day, but was
prevented therein, only at Mr. Wren's chamber there I hear that the House
of Lords did send down the paper which my Lord Chancellor left behind him,
directed to the Lords, to be seditious and scandalous; and the Commons
have voted that it be burned by the hands of the hangman, and that the
King be desired to agree to it.  I do hear, also, that they have desired
the King to use means to stop his escape out of the nation. Here I also
heard Mr. Jermin, who was there in the chamber upon occasion of Sir Thomas
Harvy's telling him of his brother's having a child, and thereby taking
away his hopes (that is, Mr. Jermin's) of L2000 a year. He swore, God damn
him, he did not desire to have any more wealth than he had in the world,
which indeed is a great estate, having all his uncle's, my Lord St.
Alban's, and my Lord hath all the Queen-Mother's.  But when Sir Thos.
Harvy told him that "hereafter you will wish it more;"--"By God," answers
he, "I won't promise what I shall do hereafter." Thence into the House,
and there spied a pretty woman with spots on her face, well clad, who was
enquiring for the guard chamber; I followed her, and there she went up,
and turned into the turning towards the chapel, and I after her, and upon
the stairs there met her coming up again, and there kissed her twice, and
her business was to enquire for Sir Edward Bishop, one of the serjeants at
armes.  I believe she was a woman of pleasure, but was shy enough to me,
and so I saw her go out afterwards, and I took a hackney coach, and away.
I to Westminster Hall, and there walked, and thence towards White Hall by
coach, and spying Mrs. Burroughs in a shop did stop and 'light and speak
to her; and so to White Hall, where I 'light and went and met her coming
towards White Hall, but was upon business, and I could not get her to go
any whither and so parted, and I home with my wife and girle (my wife not
being very well, of a great looseness day and night for these two days).
So home, my wife to read to me in Sir R. Cotton's book of warr, which is
excellent reading, and particularly I was mightily pleased this night in
what we read about the little profit or honour this kingdom ever gained by
the greatest of its conquests abroad in France.  This evening come Mr.
Mills and sat with us a while, who is mighty kind and good company, and
so, he gone, I to supper and to bed.  My wife an unquiet night.  This day
Gilsthrop is buried, who hath made all the late discourse of the great
discovery of L65,000, of which the King bath been wronged.

5th.  At the office all the morning, do hear that Will Pen, Sir W. Pen's
son, is come from Ireland, but I have not seen him yet.  At noon to the
'Change, where did little, but so home again and to dinner with my clerks
with me, and very good discourse and company they give me, and so to the
office all the afternoon till late, and so home to supper and to bed. This
day, not for want, but for good husbandry, I sent my father, by his
desire, six pair of my old shoes, which fit him, and are good; yet,
methought, it was a thing against my mind to have him wear my old things.

6th.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes to the Duke of York, the first time that
I have seen him, or we waited on him, since his sickness; and, blessed be
God! he is not at all the worse for the smallpox, but is only a little
weak yet.  We did much business with him, and so parted.  My Lord Anglesey
told me how my Lord Northampton brought in a Bill into the House of Lords
yesterday, under the name of a Bill for the Honour and Privilege of the
House, and Mercy to my Lord Clarendon: which, he told me, he opposed,
saying that he was a man accused of treason by the House of Commons; and
mercy was not proper for him, having not been tried yet, and so no mercy
needful for him.  However, the Duke of Buckingham and others did desire
that the Bill might be read; and it, was for banishing my Lord Clarendon
from all his Majesty's dominions, and that it should be treason to have
him found in any of them: the thing is only a thing of vanity, and to
insult over him, which is mighty poor I think, and so do every body else,
and ended in nothing, I think.  By and by home with Sir J. Minnes, who
tells me that my Lord Clarendon did go away in a Custom-house boat, and is
now at Callis (Calais): and, I confess, nothing seems to hang more heavy
than his leaving of this unfortunate paper behind him, that hath angered
both Houses, and hath, I think, reconciled them in that which otherwise
would have broke them in pieces; so that I do hence, and from Sir W.
Coventry's late example and doctrine to me, learn that on these sorts of
occasions there is nothing like silence; it being seldom any wrong to a
man to say nothing, but, for the most part, it is to say anything.  This
day, in coming home, Sir J. Minnes told me a pretty story of Sir Lewes
Dives, whom I saw this morning speaking with him, that having escaped once
out of prison through a house of office, and another time in woman's
apparel, and leaping over a broad canal, a soldier swore, says he, this is
a strange jade .  .  .  .  He told me also a story of my Lord Cottington,
who, wanting a son, intended to make his nephew his heir, a country boy;
but did alter his mind upon the boy's being persuaded by another young
heir, in roguery, to crow like a cock at my Lord's table, much company
being there, and the boy having a great trick at doing that perfectly.  My
Lord bade them take away that fool from the table, and so gave over the
thoughts of making him his heir, from this piece of folly.  So home, and
there to dinner, and after dinner abroad with my wife and girle, set them
down at Unthanke's, and I to White Hall to the Council chamber, where I
was summoned about the business of paying of the seamen, where I heard my
Lord Anglesey put to it by Sir W. Coventry before the King for altering
the course set by the Council; which he like a wise man did answer in few
words, that he had already sent to alter it according to the Council's
method, and so stopped it, whereas many words would have set the
Commissioners of the Treasury on fire, who, I perceive, were prepared for
it.  Here I heard Mr. Gawden speak to the King and Council upon some
business of his before them, but did it so well, in so good words and to
the purpose, that I could never have expected from a man of no greater
learning.  So went away, and in the Lobby met Mr. Sawyer, my old chamber
fellow, and stayed and had an hour's discourse of old things with him, and
I perceive he do very well in the world, and is married he tells me and
hath a child.  Then home and to the office, where Captain Cocke come to
me; and, among other discourse, tells me that he is told that an
impeachment against Sir W. Coventry will be brought in very soon.  He
tells me, that even those that are against my Lord Chancellor and the
Court, in the House, do not trust nor agree one with another.  He tells me
that my Lord Chancellor went away about ten at night, on Saturday last;
and took boat at Westminster, and thence by a vessel to Callis, where he
believes he now is: and that the Duke of York and Mr. Wren knew of it, and
that himself did know of it on Sunday morning: that on Sunday his coach,
and people about it, went to Twittenham, and the world thought that he had
been there: that nothing but this unhappy paper hath undone him and that
he doubts that this paper hath lost him everywhere that his withdrawing do
reconcile things so far as, he thinks the heat of their fury will be over,
and that all will be made well between the two [royal] brothers: that
Holland do endeavour to persuade the King of France to break peace with
us: that the Dutch will, without doubt, have sixty sail of ships out the
next year; so knows not what will become of us, but hopes the Parliament
will find money for us to have a fleete.  He gone, I home, and there my
wife made an end to me of Sir K. Cotton's discourse of warr, which is
indeed a very fine book. So to supper and to bed.  Captain Cocke did this
night tell me also, among other discourses, that he did believe that there
are jealousies in some of the House at this day against the Commissioners
of the Treasury, that by their good husbandry they will bring the King to
be out of debt and to save money, and so will not be in need of the
Parliament, and then do what he please, which is a very good piece of news
that there is such a thing to be hoped, which they would be afeard of.

7th.  All the morning at the office, and at noon home to dinner with my
clerks, and while we were at dinner comes Willet's aunt to see her and my
wife; she is a very fine widow and pretty handsome, but extraordinary well
carriaged and speaks very handsomely and with extraordinary understanding,
so as I spent the whole afternoon in her company with my wife, she
understanding all the things of note touching plays and fashions and Court
and everything and speaks rarely, which pleases me mightily, and seems to
love her niece very well, and was so glad (which was pretty odde) that
since she came hither her breasts begin to swell, she being afeard before
that she would have none, which was a pretty kind of content she gave
herself.  She tells us that Catelin is likely to be soon acted, which I am
glad to hear, but it is at the King's House.  But the King's House is at
present and hath for some days been silenced upon some difference
[between] Hart and Moone.  She being gone I to the office, and there late
doing business, and so home to supper and to bed. Only this evening I must
remember that my Lady Batten sent for me, and it was to speak to me before
her overseers about my bargain with Sir W. Batten about the prize, to
which I would give no present answer, but am well enough contented that
they begin the discourse of it, and so away to the office again, and then
home to supper and to bed.  Somebody told me this, that they hear that
Thomson, with the wooden leg, and Wildman, the Fifth-Monarchy man, a great
creature of the Duke of Buckingham's, are in nomination to be
Commissioners, among others, upon the Bill of Accounts.

8th (Lord's day).  All the morning at my chamber doing something towards
the settling of my papers and accounts, which have been out of order a
great while.  At noon to dinner, where W. How with us, and after dinner,
he being gone, I to my chamber again till almost night, and then took
boat, the tide serving, and so to White Hall, where I saw the Duchesse of
York, in a fine dress of second mourning for her mother, being black,
edged with ermine, go to make her first visit to the Queene since the Duke
of York was sick; and by and by, she being returned, the Queene come and
visited her.  But it was pretty to observe that Sir W. Coventry and I,
walking an hour and more together in the Matted Gallery, he observed, and
so did I, how the Duchesse, as soon as she spied him, turned her head a
one side.  Here he and I walked thus long, which we have not done a great
while before.  Our discourse was upon everything: the unhappiness of
having our matters examined by people that understand them not; that it
was better for us in the Navy to have men that do understand the whole,
and that are not passionate; that we that have taken the most pains are
called upon to answer for all crimes, while those that, like Sir W. Batten
and Sir J. Minnes, did sit and do nothing, do lie still without any
trouble; that, if it were to serve the King and kingdom again in a war,
neither of us could do more, though upon this experience we might do
better than we did; that the commanders, the gentlemen that could never be
brought to order, but undid all, are now the men that find fault and abuse
others; that it had been much better for the King to have given Sir J.
Minnes and Sir W. Batten L1000 a-year to have sat still, than to have had
them in his business this war: that the serving a Prince that minds not
his business is most unhappy for them that serve him well, and an
unhappiness so great that he declares he will never have more to do with a
war, under him.  That he hath papers which do flatly contradict the Duke
of Albemarle's Narrative; and that he hath been with the Duke of Albemarle
and shewed him them, to prevent his falling into another like fault: that
the Duke of Albemarle seems to be able to answer them; but he thinks that
the Duke of Albemarle and the Prince are contented to let their Narratives
sleep, they being not only contradictory in some things (as he observed
about the business of the Duke of Albemarle's being to follow the Prince
upon dividing the fleete, in case the enemy come out), but neither of them
to be maintained in others.  That the business the other night of my Lord
Anglesey at the Council was happily got over for my Lord, by his dexterous
silencing it, and the rest, not urging it further; forasmuch as, had the
Duke of Buckingham come in time enough, and had got it by the end, he,
would have toused him in it; Sir W. Coventry telling me that my Lord
Anglesey did, with such impudence, maintain the quarrel against the
Commons and some of the Lords, in the business of my Lord Clarendon, that
he believes there are enough would be glad but of this occasion to be
revenged of him.  He tells me that he hears some of the Thomsons are like
to be of the Commission for the Accounts, and Wildman, which he much
wonders at, as having been a false fellow to every body, and in prison
most of the time since the King's coming in.  But he do tell me that the
House is in such a condition that nobody can tell what to make of them,
and, he thinks, they were never in before; that every body leads, and
nobody follows; and that he do now think that, since a great many are
defeated in their expectation of being of the Commission, now they would
put it into such hands as it shall get no credit from: for, if they do
look to the bottom and see the King's case, they think they are then bound
to give the King money; whereas, they would be excused from that, and
therefore endeavour to make this business of the Accounts to signify
little.  I spoke with him about my Lord Sandwich's business, in which he
is very friendly, and do say that the unhappy business of the prizes is it
that hath brought all this trouble upon him, and the only thing that made
any thing else mentioned, and it is true.  So having discoursed with him,
I spent some time with Sir Stephen Fox about the business of our adjusting
the new method of the Excise between the Guards household and Tangier, the
Lords Commissioners of the Treasury being now resolved to bring all their
management into a course of payment by orders, and not by tallies, and I
am glad of it, and so by water home late, and very dark, and when come
home there I got my wife to read, and then come Captain Cocke to me; and
there he tells me, to my great satisfaction, that Sir Robert Brookes did
dine with him today; and that he told him, speaking of me, that he would
make me the darling of the House of Commons, so much he is satisfied
concerning me. And Damie seemed to realize this; for he stood at the entrance
of the log cabin and looked on, until Barefoot had put everything
back into the sack. Then he stepped up to her and said:

"God greet you, Amrei! I bring you nothing but dirty clothes, but you are
neat, and will make me--"
"Oh, dear Damie, how you look!"

cried Barefoot, and she threw herself on his neck. But she quickly
tore herself away from him, exclaiming:

"For Heaven's sake! You smell of whisky! Have you got so far already?"
"No, Coaly Mathew only gave me a little juniper spirit, for I could not
stand up any longer. Things have gone badly with me, but I have not
taken to drink--you may believe that, though, to be sure, I can't prove
it."
"I believe you, for you surely would not wish to deceive the only one
you have on earth! But oh, how wild and miserable you look! You have a
beard as heavy as a knife-grinder's. I won't allow that--you must shave
it off. But you're in good health? There's nothing the matter with you?"

"I am in good health, and intend to be a soldier."
"What you are, and what you are to be, we'll think about in good time.
But now tell me how things have gone with you."
Damie kicked his foot against a half-burnt log of wood--one of the spoilt
logs, as they were called--and said:

"Look you--I am just like that, not completely turned to coal, and yet
no longer fresh wood."
Barefoot exhorted him to say what he had to say without complaints. And
then Damie went off into a long, long story, setting forth how he had not
been able to bear the life at his uncle's, and how hard-hearted and
selfish that uncle was, and especially how his wife had grudged him every
bit he ate in the house, and how he had got work here and there, but how
in every place he had only experienced a little more of man's hard-heartedness.
"In America," he said, "one can see another person perishing in misery,
and never so much as look around at him."
Barefoot could hardly help laughing when there came again and again, as
the burden of his story,--"And then they turned me out into the street."
She could not help interrupting him with:

"Yes, that's just how you are, and how you used to be, even as a
child.

When you once stumbled, you let yourself fall like a log of wood; one must
convert the stumble into a hop, as the old proverb says. Cheer up.
Do you know what one must do, when people try to hurt one?"
"One must keep out of their way."
"No, one must hurt them, if one can--and one hurts them most by standing up
and achieving something. But you always stand there and say to the
world: 'Do what you like to me, good or bad; kiss me or beat me, just
as you will.' That's easy enough; you let people do anything to you, and
then pity yourself. I should like it right well myself, if some one would
place me here and there, and do everything for me. But you must
look out for yourself now. You've let yourself be pushed about quite enough
in the world; now you must play the master for awhile."
Reproof and teaching often seem like hardness and injustice in the eyes
of the unhappy; and Damie took his sister's words as such. It was dreadful
that she did not see that he was the most unhappy creature on earth. She
strongly urged him not to believe that, and said that if he did
not believe it, it would not be so. But it is the most difficult of all
undertakings to inspire a man with confidence in himself; most
people acquire it only after they have succeeded.

Damie declared that he would not tell his heartless sister a word
more; and it was only after some time that she got from him a
detailed account of his travels and fortunes, and of how he had at
last come back to the old world as a stoker on a steamboat.

While she reproved him for his self-tormenting touchiness, she became
conscious that she herself was not entirely free from that fault. For,
as a result of her almost exclusive association with Black Marianne, she
had fallen into the habit of thinking and talking so much about herself,
that she had acquired a desponding way. And now that she was called upon
to cheer her brother up, she unconsciously exerted a similar influence
upon herself. For herein lies the mysterious power of cooperation among
men, that when we help others we are also helping ourselves.

"We have four sound hands," she said in conclusion, "and we'll see if we
cannot fight our way through the world together. And to fight your way
through is a thousand times better than to beg your way through. And
now, Damie, come with me--come home."
Damie did not want to show himself in the village at all; he dreaded
the jeering that would be vented upon him from all sides, and preferred
to remain concealed for the present. But Barefoot said:

"You go with me now--on this bright Sunday; and you must walk right through
the village, and let the people mock at you, let them have their say,
let them point and laugh. Then you'll be through with it, then it will be
over, and you will have swallowed their bitter draught all at once, and
not drop by drop."
Not without long and obstinate resistance, not until Coaly Mathew had
interfered and sided with Barefoot, was Damie induced to comply. And there
was, indeed, a perfect hailstorm of jeering, sometimes coarse, sometimes
satirical, directed at Barefoot's Damie, whom people accused of having
taken merely a pleasure-trip to America at the expense of the parish.

Black Marianne alone received him kindly; her first question was:

"Have you heard nothing of my John?" But he could give her no information.

In a double sense Damie was doomed to be scratched that day; for
that very evening Barefoot had the barber come and shave off his
wild beard, and give him the smooth face that was the fashion of
the country.

The next morning Damie was summoned to the Courthouse; and inasmuch as he
trembled at the summons, he knew not why, Barefoot promised to accompany
him. And that was good, though it was not of much use; for the Council
declared to Damie that he was to be sent away from the place, that he
had no right to remain there, perhaps to become a burden on the community
once more.

All the members were astonished when Barefoot answered "Yes, you can send
him away--but do you know when? When you can go out to the churchyard,
where our father and mother lie buried, and say to them:
'Up, go away with your child!' Then you can send him away. No one can
be sent away from the place where his parents are buried; for he is more
than at home there. And if it is written a thousand times in your books
there, and a thousand times again,"--and here she pointed to the bound
government registers,--"and wherever else it may be written, it cannot
be done, and you cannot do it."
One of the councilors whispered to the schoolmaster:

"Barefoot has learned to talk in that way from nobody else but Black
Marianne."
And the sexton leaned over to the magistrate and said:

"Why do you allow the Cinderella to make such an outcry? Ring for the
gendarme and have him shut her up in the madhouse."
But the magistrate only smiled, and explained that the community had
rid itself of all burdens that could ever accrue to it through Damie by
paying the greater part of his passage money.

"But where is his home now?" asked Barefoot.

"Wherever they will receive him, but not here--at present nowhere."
"Yes, I have no home," said Damie, who almost enjoyed being made
more and more unhappy; for now nobody could deny that he was the
most unfortunate person in the world.

Barefoot continued to fight, but she soon saw that nothing could be done;
the law was against her. She now declared that she would work her fingers
to the bone rather than take anything more from the parish, either for
herself or for her brother; and she promised to pay back all that had
been received.

"Shall I put that down on the minutes?" asked the clerk of those who sat
around. And Barefoot replied:

"Yes, put it down; for with you nothing counts except what's written."

Barefoot then put her signature to the entry. When this was done, it was
announced that Damie, as a stranger, had permission to remain in the village
for three days, but that if within that time he had not found some means
of subsistence, he would be sent away, and in case of necessity,
would be removed by force across the frontier.

Without another word Barefoot left the Court-house with Damie, who actually
shed tears because she had compelled him to return to the village to no
purpose. It would have been better, he declared, if he had remained out in
the woods and spared himself the jeering, and the humiliation of hearing
himself banished as a stranger from his native place. Barefoot wanted
to reply that it was better to know the worst, however bitter it might be;
but she restrained herself, realizing that she had need of all her strength
to keep up her own courage. She felt as if she had been banished with
her brother, and understood that she had to fight with a world that had
law and might to fall back upon, while she herself was empty-handed
and helpless.

But she bore up more bravely than ever; she did not allow Damie's
weaknesses and adversities to weigh upon her. For that is the way with
people; if any one has a pain of his own which entirely occupies him,
he will bear a second pain--be it ever so severe--more easily than if he
had this second pain alone to bear. And thus while Barefoot had a feeling
of indescribable sorrow against which she could do nothing, she was able
to bear the definite trial against which she could strive, the more
willingly and freely. She allowed herself not a minute more for dreaming,
and went to and fro with stiff arms and clinched fists, as if to say:
"Where is there work to do? Be it ever so hard, I will gladly undertake
it, if only I can get myself and my brother out of this state of forsaken
dependency."
She now cherished the idea of going with Damie to Alsace, and working in
a factory there. It seemed terrible to her that she should have to do
this, but she would force herself to it; as soon as the summer was
over, she would go. And then, "Farewell home," she said, "for we are
strangers even here where we were born."
The one protector the two orphans had had on the Village Council was now
powerless to do anything for them; old Farmer Rodel was taken seriously
ill, and in the night following the stormy meeting he died. Barefoot and
Black Marianne were the two people who wept the most at his burial in the
churchyard. On the way home Black Marianne gave as a special reason
for this fact that old Farmer Rodel had been the last survivor of those
with whom she had danced in her youth. "And now," she said, "my last
partner is dead."
But she soon spoke a very different elegy concerning him; for it appeared
that Farmer Rodel, who had for years been raising Barefoot's hopes
concerning his will, made no mention at all of her in that document--far
less did he leave her anything.

When Black Marianne went on with an endless tirade of scolding and
complaining, Barefoot said:

"It's all coming at once.

The sky is cloudy now, and the hail is beating down upon me from all sides;
but the sun will soon be shining again."
The relatives of Farmer Rodel gave Barefoot a few garments that had
belonged to the old man; she would have liked to refuse them, but
realized that it would not do to show a spirit of obstinacy just now.
At first Damie also refused to accept the clothes, but he was finally obliged
to give in; he seemed fated to pass his life in the clothes of various dead
people.

Coaly Mathew took Damie to work with him at the kiln in the forest, where
talebearers kept coming to Damie to tell him that he had only to begin a
lawsuit; they declared that he could not be driven away, for he had
not yet been received at any other place, and that this was always a tacit
condition when any one gave up his right of settlement. These people
seemed to derive a certain satisfaction from the reflection that the poor
orphans had neither time nor money to begin a legal process.

Damie seemed to like the solitude of the forest; it suited him exactly, the
fact that one was not obliged to dress and undress there. And every Sunday
afternoon Barefoot experienced great difficulty in getting him to clean
himself up a little; then she would sit with him and Coaly Mathew.

Little was said, and Barefoot could not prevent her thoughts from wandering
about the world in search of him who had once made her so happy for a whole
day, and had lifted her above the earth. Did he know nothing more about
her? Did he think of her no more? Could people forget other people
with whom they had once been so happy?

It was on a Sunday morning toward the end of May, and everybody was at church.
The day before it had rained, and now a strong, refreshing breeze was
blowing over the mountains and valleys, and the sun was shining brightly.
Barefoot had also intended to go to church, but while the bells were
ringing she had sat as if spell-bound beneath her window, until it was
too late to go. That was a strange thing for her, and it had never happened
before. But now that it was too late, she determined to stay at
home by herself and read her hymn-book.

She rummaged through her drawers, and was surprised to find all sorts
of things that belonged to her. She was sitting on the floor,
reading a hymn and humming the tune of it to herself, when something stirred
at the window. She glanced up; a white dove was sitting on the ledge and
looking at her. When the eyes of the dove and of the girl met, the bird
flew away. Barefoot watched it soar out over the fields and alight
again.

This incident, which was a very natural one, filled her heart with gladness;
and she kept nodding to the mountains in the distance, and to the fields
and woods. The rest of that day she was unusually cheerful.
She could not explain to herself why, but it seemed to her as if a joyous
spirit were singing within her, and she knew not whence it came.
And as often as she shook her head, while she leaned against the door-post,
wondering at the strange excitement she felt, the feeling did not pass
away.

"It must be, it must be that some one has been thinking kindly of me,"
she said; "and why should it not be possible that the dove was a
silent messenger who came to tell me so?

--Animals, after all, live in the world, where the thoughts of men are
flying about, and who knows if they do not quietly carry those thoughts
away?"
The people who passed by Barefoot could have no idea of the strange life
that was moving within her.

CHAPTER XIII
OUT OF A MOTHER'S HEART

While Barefoot was dreaming and working and worrying in village, field, and
wood, sometimes feeling a strange thrill of joy, at other times thinking
herself completely deserted, two parents were sending their child forth
into the world, in the hope, to be sure, that he would return to them the
richer. Yonder in Allgau, in the large farm-house known, by the sign
over the door, as the "Wild Clearing," sat Farmer Landfried and his wife,
with their youngest son. The farmer was saying:

"Listen, John; it's more than a year since you came back, and I don't know
what's gotten into you. You came home that day like a whipped dog, and
said that you would rather choose a wife here in the neighborhood--but
I don't see any signs of your doing it. If you will follow my advice once
more, then I won't say another word to persuade you."
"Yes, I will," said the young man, without looking up. "Well then, make
one more trial--one trial is no better than no trial. And I tell
you, you will make me and your mother happy if you choose a wife from our
region. I may say it to your face, wife; there's only one good breed of
women in the world, and they come from our part of the country. Now, you
are a sensible lad, John, and you will be sure to pick out a good
one, and then you'll thank us on your death-bed for sending you to
our home to find a wife.

If I could get away, I would go with you--together we would find the right
one surely--but I can't go. I've spoken to our George, however, and he
says he'll go with you if you ask him. Ride over, and speak to him
then."
"If I may say what I think," answered the young man, "when I go again,
I'd rather go alone. You see, it's my way; in such a matter a second
pair of eyes is superfluous--I should not like to consult any one
else.
If it were possible, I should even like to make myself invisible while I
am looking around; but if two of us went together, we might as well have
it proclaimed abroad, so that they would all dress themselves up to receive
us."
"As you will," said the father; "you always were a strange fellow. Do you
know what? Suppose you start at once; we want a mate for our white horse,
so do you go out and look for one--but not in the market, of course. And
when you are going about from house to house, you can see things
for yourself; and on your way home you can buy a Bernese chaise-wagon.
Dominic, in Endringen, they say, has three daughters as straight as
organ-pipes; choose one of them--we should like to have a daughter
from that house."

"Yes," the mother observed, "Ameile is sure to have nice daughters."
"And it would be well," continued the father, "if you went to Siebenhofen
and took a look at Amrei, the Butter Count's daughter. She has a farm
of her own that one could easily sell; the farmers of Siebenhofen have
got their eyes on it, for they want to have more land.
But it's a question of cold cash, and none of them can raise it. But I'll
say nothing more, for you have eyes of your own. Come, set out at
once, and I'll fill the money-belt for you--two hundred crowns will be
enough, but if you should have to have more, Dominic will lend you
some.
Only make yourself known; I could never understand why you did not tell
people who you were that time at the wedding. Something must have happened
then--but I won't ask any questions."
"Yes, because he won't answer them," said the mother, smiling.

The farmer at once set about filling the money-belt; he broke open two
large paper rouleaux, and it was manifest that he enjoyed counting out the
big coins from one hand into the other. He made twenty piles of ten
dollars each, and counted them over two or three times to be sure that
he had made no mistake.

"Well, I am ready," said the young man, standing up as he spoke.

He is the strange dancer whose acquaintance we made at the wedding in
Endringen. He went out to the stable, and presently returned with the white
horse already saddled. And as he was fastening his valise to the bolster,
a fine, large wolf-hound began jumping up at him and licking his
hands.
"Yes, yes, I'll take you with me," said the lad to the dog; and for
the first time his face looked cheerful, as he called out to his
father:

"Father, can I take Lux with me?"
"Yes, if you like," sounded the answer from within, amid the jingling
of coins. The dog seemed to understand the question and the answer,
for he ran around the yard in circles, barking joyously. The young
man went into the house, and, as he was buckling on the money-belt,
he said "You are right, father; I feel better already, now that I
am getting myself out of this aimless way of living. And I don't
know--people ought not to be superstitious--but somehow I was glad
when the horse turned around and neighed to me when I went out into
the stable just now--and that the dog wants to go too. After all,
they're good signs, and if we could ask animals, who knows if they
could not give us good advice?"
The mother smiled, but the father said:
"Don't forget to look up Crappy Zachy, and don't go ahead and bind
yourself until you have consulted him. He knows the affairs of all
the people for ten miles around, and is a living information bureau.
And now, God be with you! Take your time--you may stay away as long
as ten days." 
Father and son shook hands, and the mother said:
"I'll escort you part of the way."
The young man, leading his horse by the bridle, then walked quietly
beside his mother until they were out in front of the yard, and it
was not until they reached the turn in the road that the mother
said, hesitatingly:
"I should like to give you some good advice."
"Yes, yes, let me have it--I'll listen to it gladly."
The mother then took her son's hand, and began:
"You must stand still--I can't talk while I am walking. Look; that
she should please you is, of course, the first thing--there's no
happiness without love. Well, I am an old woman, and so I may say
what I think to you, may I not?" 
"Yes, surely."
"Well, if it doesn't make you happy, if it doesn't make you feel
as if it were a boon from heaven to kiss her, then it's not the
right kind of love. But--why don't you stand still--but that kind
of love is not enough; there may be something else concealed beneath
it, believe me." Here the old woman blushed crimson and hesitated.
"Look you," she went on, "where there is not the right feeling of
respect, when a man does not feel rejoiced that a woman takes a
thing in hand in just one way, and not in another, and does it just
in this way, and not in that--it's a bad sign. And above all things,
notice how she treats her servants."
"I'll take what you have to say, and change it into small coin for
you; for talking is hard for you. What you have just said, I
understand; she must not be too proud, and not too familiar."
"That, certainly. But I can tell by looking at a girl's mouth, if
that mouth has used bad words and scolded and stormed, and is fond
of doing it. Yes, if you could see her weeping with vexation, or
come upon her unawares, when she is angry, that would be the best
way of knowing what she is. For then the inward self that we conceal
springs out, and often that self is armed with claws, like a devil.
Oh, child, I have had much experience, and have seen many things.
I can tell by the way a woman puts out a candle what she is, and
what kind of a temper she has; she who puts it out hurriedly as she
goes by, regardless of whether it blows sparks or sputters or not,
she is one who prides herself upon her bustling industry, and who
does things only by halves, and has no peace of mind."Holliard; but by chance I
offering occasion to him to discourse of the Church of Rome, Lord!  how he
run on to discourse with the greatest vehemence and importunity in the
world, as the only thing in the world that he is full of, and it was good
sport to me to see him so earnest on so little occasion.  She come to see
us and to tell me that her husband is going to build his house again, and
would borrow of me L300, which I shall upon good security be willing to
do, and so told her, being willing to have some money out of my hands upon
good security.  After dinner up to my wife again, who is in great pain
still with her tooth, and there, they gone, I spent the most of the
afternoon and night reading and talking to bear her company, and so to
supper and to bed.

23rd.  Up before day, and by coach to Sir W. Coventry's, and with him to
White Hall, and there walked a great while with him in the garden till the
Commissioners of the Treasury met, and there talked over many businesses,
and particularly he tells me that by my desire he hath moved the Duke of
York that Sir J. Minnes might be removed from the Navy, at least the
Controller's place, and his business put on my Lord Brouncker and Sir W.
Pen; that the Committee for Accounts are good sober men, and such as he
thinks we shall have fair play from; that he hopes that the kingdom will
escape ruin in general, notwithstanding all our fears, and yet I find he
do seem not very confident in it.  So to the Commissioners of the
Treasury, and there I had a dispute before them with Sir Stephen Fox about
our orders for money, who is very angry, but I value it not. But, Lord! to
see with what folly my Lord Albemarle do speak in this business would make
a man wonder at the good fortune of such a fool. Thence meeting there with
Creed, he and I to the Exchange, and there I saw Carr stand in the pillory
for the business of my Lord Gerard, which is supposed will make a hot
business in the House of Commons, when they shall come to sit again, the
Lords having ordered this with great injustice, as all people think, his
only fault being the printing his petition before, by accident, his
petition be read in the House.  Here walked up and down the Exchange with
Creed, and then home to dinner, and there hear by Creed that the Bishops
of Winchester and of Rochester, and the Dean of the Chapel, and some other
great prelates, are suspended: and a cloud upon the Archbishop ever since
the late business in the House of Lords; and I believe it will be a heavy
blow to the Clergy.  This noon I bought a sermon of Dr. Floyd's, which
Creed read a great part of to me and Mr. Hollier, who dined with me, but
as well writ and as good, against the Church of Rome, as ever I read; but,
Lord! how Hollier, poor man, was taken with it.  They gone I to the
office, and there very late with Mr. Willson and my people about the
making of a new contract for the victualler, which do and will require a
great deal of pains of me, and so to supper and to bed, my wife being
pretty well all this day by reason of her imposthume being broke in her
cheek into her mouth.  This day, at the 'Change, Creed shewed me Mr.
Coleman, of whom my wife hath so good an opinion, and says that he is as
very a rogue for women as any in the world; which did disquiet me, like a
fool, and run in my mind a great while.

24th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at noon with my clerks
to dinner, and then to the office again, busy at the office till six at
night, and then by coach to St. James's, it being about six at night; my
design being to see the ceremonys, this night being the eve of Christmas,
at the Queen's chapel.  But it being not begun I to Westminster Hall, and
there staid and walked, and then to the Swan, and there drank and talked,
and did banter a little Frank, and so to White Hall, and sent my coach
round, I through the Park to chapel, where I got in up almost to the rail,
and with a great deal of patience staid from nine at night to two in the
morning, in a very great crowd; and there expected, but found nothing
extraordinary, there being nothing but a high masse.  The Queen was there,
and some ladies.  But, Lord! what an odde thing it was for me to be in a
crowd of people, here a footman, there a beggar, here a fine lady, there a
zealous poor papist, and here a Protestant, two or three together, come to
see the shew.  I was afeard of my pocket being picked very much .  .  .  .
Their musique very good indeed, but their service I confess too frivolous,
that there can be no zeal go along with it, and I do find by them
themselves that they do run over their beads with one hand, and point and
play and talk and make signs with the other in the midst of their masse.
But all things very rich and beautiful; and I see the papists have the
wit, most of them, to bring cushions to kneel on, which I wanted, and was
mightily troubled to kneel.  All being done, and I sorry for my coming,
missing of what I expected; which was, to have had a child born and
dressed there, and a great deal of do: but we broke up, and nothing like
it done: and there I left people receiving the Sacrament: and the Queen
gone, and ladies; only my Lady Castlemayne, who looked prettily in her
night-clothes, and so took my coach, which waited, and away through Covent
Garden, to set down two gentlemen and a lady, who come thither to see
also, and did make mighty mirth in their talk of the folly of this
religion.  And so I stopped, having set them down and drank some burnt
wine at the Rose Tavern door, while the constables come, and two or three
Bellmen went by,

25th.  It being a fine, light, moonshine morning, and so home round the
city, and stopped and dropped money at five or six places, which I was the
willinger to do, it being Christmas-day, and so home, and there find my
wife in bed, and Jane and the maids making pyes, and so I to bed, and
slept well, and rose about nine, and to church, and there heard a dull
sermon of Mr. Mills, but a great many fine people at church; and so home.
Wife and girl and I alone at dinner--a good Christmas dinner, and all the
afternoon at home, my wife reading to me "The History of the Drummer of
Mr. Mompesson," which is a strange story of spies, and worth reading
indeed.  In the evening comes Mr. Pelling, and he sat and supped with us;
and very good company, he reciting to us many copies of good verses of Dr.
Wilde, who writ "Iter Boreale," and so to bed, my boy being gone with W.
Hewer and Mr. Hater to Mr. Gibson's in the country to dinner and lie there
all night.

26th.  Up and to Westminster, and there to the Swan, and by chance met Mr.
Spicer and another 'Chequer clerk, and there made them drink, and there
talked of the credit the 'Chequer is now come to and will in a little
time, and so away homeward, and called at my bookseller's, and there
bought Mr. Harrington's works, "Oceana," &c., and two other books, which
cost me L4, and so home, and there eat a bit, and then with my wife to the
King's playhouse, and there saw "The Surprizall;" which did not please me
to-day, the actors not pleasing me; and especially Nell's acting of a
serious part, which she spoils. Here met with Sir W. Pen, and sat by him,
and home by coach with him, and there to my office a while, and then home
to supper and to bed.  I hear this day that Mrs. Stewart do at this day
keep a great court at Somerset House, with her husband the Duke of
Richmond, she being visited for her beauty's sake by people, as the Queen
is, at nights; and they say also that she is likely to go to Court again,
and there put my Lady Castlemayne's nose out of joynt.  God knows that
would make a great turn.  This day I was invited to have gone to my cozen
Mary Pepys' burial, my uncle Thomas' daughter, but could not.

27th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there walked with Creed in the
Matted gallery till by and by a Committee for Tangier met: the Duke of
York there; and there I did discourse over to them their condition as to
money, which they were all mightily, as I could desire, satisfied with,
but the Duke of Albemarle, who takes the part of the Guards against us in
our supplies of money, which is an odd consideration for a dull, heavy
blockhead as he is, understanding no more of either than a goose: but the
ability and integrity of Sir W. Coventry, in all the King's concernments,
I do and must admire.  After the Committee up, I and Sir W. Coventry
walked an hour in the gallery, talking over many businesses, and he tells
me that there are so many things concur to make him and his Fellow
Commissioners unable to go through the King's work that he do despair of
it, every body becoming an enemy to them in their retrenchments, and the
King unstable, the debts great and the King's present occasions for money
great and many and pressing, the bankers broke and every body keeping in
their money, while the times are doubtful what will stand.  But he says
had they come in two years ago they doubt not to have done what the King
would by this time, or were the King in the condition as heretofore, when
the Chancellor was great, to be able to have what sums of money they
pleased of the Parliament, and then the ill administration was such that
instead of making good use of this power and money he suffered all to go
to ruin.  But one such sum now would put all upon their legs, and now the
King would have the Parliament give him money when they are in an ill
humour and will not be willing to give any, nor are very able, and besides
every body distrusts what they give the King will be lost; whereas six
months hence, when they see that the King can live without them, and is
become steady, and to manage what he has well, he doubts not but their
doubts would be removed, and would be much more free as well as more able
to give him money.  He told me how some of his enemies at the Duke of
York's had got the Duke of York's commission for the Commissioners of his
estate changed, and he and Brouncker and Povy left out: that this they did
do to disgrace and impose upon him at this time; but that he, though he
values not the thing, did go and tell the Duke of York what he heard, and
that he did not think that he had given him any reason to do this, out of
his belief that he would not be as faithful and serviceable to him as the
best of those that have got him put out. Whereupon the Duke of York did
say that it arose only from his not knowing whether now he would have time
to regard his affairs; and that, if he should, he would put him into the
commission with his own hand, though the commission be passed.  He
answered that he had been faithful to him, and done him good service
therein, so long as he could attend it; and if he had been able to have
attended it more, he would not have enriched himself with such and such
estates as my Lord Chancellor hath got, that did properly belong to his
Royal Highness, as being forfeited to the King, and so by the King's gift
given to the Duke of York. Hereupon the Duke of York did call for the
commission, and hath since put him in.  This he tells me he did only to
show his enemies that he is not so low as to be trod on by them, or the
Duke hath any so bad opinion of him as they would think.  Here we parted,
and I with Sir H. Cholmly went and took a turn into the Park, and there
talked of several things, and about Tangier particularly, and of his
management of his business, and among other discourse about the method he
will leave his accounts in if he should suddenly die, he says there is
nothing but what is easily understood, but only a sum of L500 which he has
entered given to E. E. S., which in great confidence he do discover to me
to be my Lord Sandwich, at the beginning of their contract for the Mole,
and I suppose the rest did the like, which was L1500, which would appear a
very odd thing for my Lord to be a profiter by the getting of the contract
made for them.  But here it puts me into thoughts how I shall own my
receiving of L200 a year from him, but it is his gift, I never asked of
him, and which he did to Mr. Povy, and so there is no great matter in it.
Thence to other talk.  He tells me that the business of getting the
Duchess of Richmond to Court is broke off, the Duke not suffering it; and
thereby great trouble is brought among the people that endeavoured it, and
thought they had compassed it.  And, Lord! to think that at this time the
King should mind no other cares but these!  He tells me that my Lord of
Canterbury is a mighty stout man, and a man of a brave, high spirit, and
cares not for this disfavour that he is under at Court, knowing that the
King cannot take away his profits during his life, and therefore do not
value it.

     [This character of Archbishop Sheldon does not tally with the
     scandal that Pepys previously reported of him.  Burnet has some
     passages of importance on this in his "Own Time," Book II. He
     affirms that Charles's final decision to throw over Clarendon was
     caused by the Chancellor's favouring Mrs. Stewart's marriage with
     the Duke of Richmond.  The king had a conference with Sheldon on the
     removal of Clarendon, but could not convert the archbishop to his
     view.  Lauderdale told Burnet that he had an account of the
     interview from the king.  "The king and Sheldon had gone into such
     expostulations upon it that from that day forward Sheldon could
     never recover the king's confidence."]

Thence I home, and there to my office and wrote a letter to the Duke of
York from myself about my clerks extraordinary, which I have employed this
war, to prevent my being obliged to answer for what others do without any
reason demand allowance for, and so by this means I will be accountable
for none but my own, and they shall not have them but upon the same terms
that I have, which is a profession that with these helps they will answer
to their having performed their duties of their places. So to dinner, and
then away by coach to the Temple, and then for speed by water thence to
White Hall, and there to our usual attending the Duke of York, and did
attend him, where among other things I did present and lodge my letter,
and did speed in it as I could wish.  Thence home with Sir W. Pen and
Comm. Middleton by coach, and there home and to cards with my wife, W.
Hewer, Mercer, and the girle, and mighty pleasant all the evening, and so
to bed with my wife, which I have not done since her being ill for three
weeks or thereabouts.

28th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning, at noon home,
and there to dinner with my clerks and Mr. Pelting, and had a very good
dinner, among others a haunch of venison boiled, and merry we were, and I
rose soon from dinner, and with my wife and girle to the King's house, and
there saw "The Mad Couple," which is but an ordinary play; but only Nell's
and Hart's mad parts are most excellently done, but especially hers: which
makes it a miracle to me to think how ill she do any serious part, as, the
other day, just like a fool or changeling; and, in a mad part, do beyond
all imitation almost.  [It pleased us mightily to see the natural
affection of a poor woman, the mother of one of the children brought on
the stage: the child crying, she by force got upon the stage, and took up
her child and carried it away off of the stage from Hart.] Many fine faces
here to-day.  Thence home, and there to the office late, and then home to
supper and to bed.  I am told to-day, which troubles me, that great
complaint is made upon the 'Change, among our merchants, that the very
Ostend little pickaroon men-of-war do offer violence to our merchant-men,
and search them, beat our masters, and plunder them, upon pretence of
carrying Frenchmen's goods.  Lord!  what a condition are we come to, and
that so soon after a war!

29th (Lord's day).  Up, and at my chamber all the day, both morning and
afternoon (only a little at dinner with my wife alone), upon the settling
of my Tangier accounts towards the evening of all reckonings now against
the new year, and here I do see the great folly of letting things go long
unevened, it being very hard for me and dangerous to state after things
are gone out of memory, and much more would be so should I have died in
this time and my accounts come to other hands, to understand which would
never be.  At night comes Mrs. Turner to see us; and there, among other
talk, she tells me that Mr. William Pen, who is lately come over from
Ireland, is a Quaker again, or some very melancholy thing; that he cares
for no company, nor comes into any which is a pleasant thing, after his
being abroad so long, and his father such a hypocritical rogue, and at
this time an Atheist.  She gone, I to my very great content do find my
accounts to come very even and naturally, and so to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up before day, and by coach to Westminster, and there first to Sir
H. Cholmly, and there I did to my great content deliver him up his little
several papers for sums of money paid him, and took his regular receipts
upon his orders, wherein I am safe.  Thence to White Hall, and there to
visit Sir G. Carteret, and there was with him a great while, and my Lady
and they seem in very good humour, but by and by Sir G. Carteret and I
alone, and there we did talk of the ruinous condition we are in, the King
being going to put out of the Council so many able men; such as my Lord
Anglesey, Ashly, Hopis, Secretary Morrice (to bring in Mr. Trevor), and
the Archbishop of Canterbury, and my Lord Bridgewater.  He tells me that
this is true, only the Duke of York do endeavour to hinder it, and the
Duke of York himself did tell him so: that the King and the Duke of York
do not in company disagree, but are friendly; but that there is a core in
their hearts, he doubts, which is not to be easily removed; for these men
do suffer only for their constancy to the Chancellor, or at least from the
King's ill-will against him: that they do now all they can to vilify the
clergy, and do accuse Rochester [Dolben] .  .  .  and so do raise
scandals, all that is possible, against other of the Bishops.  He do
suggest that something is intended for the Duke of Monmouth, and it may
be, against the Queene also: that we are in no manner sure against an
invasion the next year: that the Duke of Buckingham do rule all now, and
the Duke of York comes indeed to the Caball, but signifies little there.
That this new faction do not endure, nor the King, Sir W. Coventry; but
yet that he is so usefull that they cannot be without him; but that he is
not now called to the Caball.  That my Lord of Buckingham, Bristoll, and
Arlington, do seem to agree in these things; but that they do not in their
hearts trust one another, but do drive several ways, all of them. In
short, he do bless himself that he is no more concerned in matters now;
and the hopes he hath of being at liberty, when his accounts are over, to
retire into the country.  That he do give over the kingdom for wholly
lost.  So after some other little discourse, I away, meeting with Mr.
Cooling.  I with him by coach to the Wardrobe, where I never was since the
fire in Hatton Garden, but did not 'light: and he tells me he fears that
my Lord Sandwich will suffer much by Mr. Townsend's being untrue to him,
he being now unable to give the Commissioners of the Treasury an account
of his money received by many thousands of pounds, which I am troubled
for.  Thence to the Old Exchange together, he telling me that he believes
there will be no such turning out of great men as is talked of, but that
it is only to fright people, but I do fear there may be such a thing
doing.  He do mightily inveigh against the folly of the King to bring his
matters to wrack thus, and that we must all be undone without help.  I met
with Cooling at the Temple-gate, after I had been at both my booksellers
and there laid out several pounds in books now against the new year.  From
the 'Change (where I met with Captain Cocke, who would have borrowed money
of me, but I had the grace to deny him, he would have had 3 or L400) I
with Cocke and Mr. Temple (whose wife was just now brought to bed of a
boy, but he seems not to be at all taken with it, which is a strange
consideration how others do rejoice to have a child born), to Sir G.
Carteret's, in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and there did dine together, there
being there, among other company, Mr. Attorney Montagu, and his fine lady,
a fine woman.  After dinner, I did understand from my Lady Jemimah that
her brother Hinchingbroke's business was to be ended this day, as she
thinks, towards his match, and they do talk here of their intent to buy
themselves some new clothes against the wedding, which I am very glad of.
After dinner I did even with Sir G. Carteret the accounts of the interest
of the money which I did so long put out for him in Sir R. Viner's hands,
and by it I think I shall be a gainer about L28, which is a very good
reward for the little trouble I have had in it. Thence with Sir Philip
Carteret to the King's playhouse, there to see "Love's Cruelty," an old
play, but which I have not seen before; and in the first act Orange Moll
come to me, with one of our porters by my house, to tell me that Mrs.
Pierce and Knepp did dine at my house to-day, and that I was desired to
come home.  So I went out presently, and by coach home, and they were just
gone away so, after a very little stay with my wife, I took coach again,
and to the King's playhouse again, and come in the fourth act; and it
proves to me a very silly play, and to everybody else, as far as I could
judge.  But the jest is, that here telling Moll how I had lost my journey,
she told me that Mrs. Knepp was in the house, and so shews me to her, and
I went to her, and sat out the play, and then with her to Mrs. Manuel's,
where Mrs. Pierce was, and her boy and girl; and here I did hear Mrs.
Manuel and one of the Italians, her gallant, sing well.  But yet I confess
I am not delighted so much with it, as to admire it: for, not
understanding the words, I lose the benefit of the vocalitys of the
musick, and it proves only instrumental; and therefore was more pleased to
hear Knepp sing two or three little English things that I understood,
though the composition of the other, and performance, was very fine.
Thence, after sitting and talking a pretty while, I took leave and left
them there, and so to my bookseller's, and paid for the books I had
bought, and away home, where I told my wife where I had been.  But she was
as mad as a devil, and nothing but ill words between us all the evening
while we sat at cards--W. Hewer and the girl by--even to gross ill words,
which I was troubled for, but do see that I must use policy to keep her
spirit down, and to give her no offence by my being with Knepp and Pierce,
of which, though she will not own it, yet she is heartily jealous.  And
after that he had spoken thus, the young warrior went away from the
place where the maidens were; and they knew not whence it was that he had
come, nor whither he departed afterwards.
Moreover it is told of Mac O'c, that after the disappearance of Etain he
came to the meeting appointed between him and Mider; and when he found
that Fuamnach was away: "'Tis deceit," said Mider, "that this woman
hath practised upon us; and if Etain shall be seen by her to be in Ireland,
she will work evil upon Etain." "And indeed," said Mac O'c, "it seemeth
to me that thy guess may be true. For Etain hath long since been in my
own house, even in the palace where I dwell; moreover she is now in that
shape into which that woman transformed her; and 'tis most likely that
it is upon her that Fuamnach hath rushed." Then Mac O'c went back to
his palace, and he found his bower of glass empty, for Etain was not
there. And Mac O'c turned him, and he went upon the track of Fuamnach, and
he overtook her at Oenach Bodbgnai, in the house of Bressal Etarlam
the Druid. And Mac O'c attacked her, and he struck off her head, and he
carried the head with him till he came to within his own borders.

     Yet a different tale hath been told of the end of Fuamnach, for it
     hath been said that by the aid of Manannan both Fuamnach and Mider
     were slain in Bri Leith, and it is of that slaying that men have
told when they said:

Think on Sigmall, and Bri with its forest:
Little wit silly Fuamnach had learned; Mider's wife found her need
was the sorest, When Bri Leith by Manannan was burned.

          THE COURTSHIP OF ETAIN
          

          EGERTON VERSION
          

          Once there was a glorious and stately king who held the supreme
lordship over all the land of Ireland.

          The name of the king was Eochaid Airemm, and he was the son of Finn,
who was the son of Finntan; who was the son of Rogan the Red; who
was the son of Essamain; who was the son of Blathecht; who was the
son of Beothecht; who was the son of Labraid the Tracker; who was
the son of Enna the Swift; who was the son of Angus of Tara, called
the Shamefaced; who was the son of Eochaid the Broad-jointed; who
was the son of Ailill of the Twisted Teeth; who was the son of
Connla the Fair; who was the son of Irer; who was the son of Melghe
the Praiseworthy; who was the son of Cobhtach the Slender from the
plain of Breg; who was the son of Ugaine the Great; who was the son
of Eochaid the Victorious.

          Now all the five provinces of Ireland were obedient to the
          rule of Eochaid Airemm: for Conor the son of Ness, the king of
Ulster, was vassal to Eochaid; and Messgegra the king of Leinster
was his vassal; and so was Curoi, the son of Dare, king of the land
of Munster; and so were Ailill and Maev, who ruled over the land
of Connaught.

Two great strongholds were in the hands of Eochaid: they were the strongholds
of Fremain in Meath, and of Fremain in Tethba; and the stronghold that
he had in Tethba was more pleasing to him than any of those that he
possessed.
Less than a year had passed since Eochaid first assumed the sovereignty
over Erin, when the news was proclaimed at once throughout all the land
that the Festival of Tara should be held, that all the men of
Ireland should come into the presence of their king, and that he
desired full knowledge of the tributes due from, and the customs
proper to each.

And the one answer that all of the men of Ireland made to his call was:
"That they would not attend the Festival of Tara during such time, whether
it be long or short, that the king of Ireland remained without a wife that
was worthy of him;" for there is no noble who is a wifeless man among the
men of Ireland; nor can there be any king without a queen; nor does any
man go to the Festival of Tara without his wife; nor does any wife go
thither without her husband.

Thereupon Eochaid sent out from him his horsemen, and his wizards, and his
officers who had the care of the roads, and his couriers of the boundaries
throughout all Ireland; and they searched all Ireland as they sought
for a wife that should be worthy of the king, in her form, and her grace,
and her countenance, and her birth. And in addition to all this there yet
remained one condition: that the king would take as his wife none who had
been before as a wife to any other man before him.

     And after that they had received these commands, his horsemen, and his
     wizards, and his officers who had the care of the roads, and
     the couriers of the boundaries went out; and they searched
     all Ireland south and north; and near to the Bay of Cichmany they
     found a wife worthy of the king; and her name was Etain the
     daughter of Etar, who was the king of Echrad. And his messengers
     returned to Eochaid, and they told him of the maiden, of her
     form, and her grace, and her countenance. And Eochaid came to that
     place to take the maiden thence, and this was the way that he took;
     for as he crossed over the ground where men hold the assembly of
Bri Leith, he saw the maiden at the brink of the spring.

A clear comb of silver was held in her hand, the comb was adorned with gold;
and near her, as for washing, was a bason of silver whereon four birds had
been chased, and there were little bright gems of carbuncle on the
rims of the bason. A bright purple mantle waved round her; and beneath it
was another mantle, ornamented with silver fringes: the outer mantle was
clasped over her bosom with a golden brooch. A tunic she wore, with a
long hood that might cover her head attached to it; it was stiff and
glossy with green silk beneath red embroidery of gold, and was clasped
over her breasts with marvellously wrought clasps of silver and gold;
so that men saw the bright gold and the green silk flashing against the
sun. On her head were two tresses of golden hair, and each tress had been
plaited into four strands; at the end of each strand was a little ball
of gold. And there was that maiden, undoing her hair that she might
wash it, her two arms out through the armholes of her smock. Each of
her two arms was as white as the snow of a single night, and each of her
cheeks was as rosy as the foxglove. Even and small were the teeth in her
head, and they shone like pearls. Her eyes were as blue as a hyacinth,
her lips delicate and crimson; very high, soft, and white were her
shoulders.
Tender, polished, and white were her wrists; her fingers long, and of great
whiteness; her nails were beautiful and pink. White as the snow, or as
the foam of the wave, was her side; long was it, slender, and as soft as
silk. Smooth and white were her thighs; her knees were round and firm and
white; her ankles were as straight as the rule of a carpenter. Her feet
were slim, and as white as the ocean's foam; evenly set were her eyes;
her eyebrows were of a bluish black, such as ye see upon the shell of a
beetle. Never a maid fairer than she, or more worthy of love, was till
then seen by the eyes of men; and it seemed to them that she must be one
of those who have come from the fairy mounds: it is of this maiden that
men have spoken when it hath been said: "All that's graceful must be tested
by Etain; all that's lovely by the standard of Etain."
Grace with Etain's grace compare!
Etain's face shall test what's fair!

And desire of her seized upon the king; and he sent a man of his people in
front of him to go to her kindred, in order that she might abide
to await his coming.

     And afterwards the king came to the maiden, and he sought speech
from her: "Whence art thou sprung, O maiden?"

     says Eochaid, "and whence is it that thou hast
     come?" "It is easy to answer thee,"
     said the maiden: "Etain is my name,
     the daughter of the king of Echrad; 'out of the fairy
     mound' am I" "Shall an hour of
     dalliance with thee be granted to me?" said Eochaid. "'Tis for
     that I have come hither under thy safeguard," said she.
     "And indeed twenty years have I lived in
     this place, ever since I was born in the mound where the
     fairies dwell, and the men who dwell in the
     elf-mounds, their kings and their nobles, have been a-wooing me:
yet to never a one of them was granted sleep with me, for I have
loved thee, and have set my love and affection upon thee; and that
ever since I was a little child, and had first the gift of speech.

     It was for the high tales of thee, and of thy splendour, that I
have loved thee thus; and though I have never seen thee before, I
knew thee at once by reason of the report of thee that I had heard;
it is thou, I know, to whom we have attained."

     "It is no evil-minded lover who now inviteth thee," says
     Eochaid. "Thou shalt be welcomed by me, and I
     will leave all women for thy sake, and thine alone will
     I be so long as it is pleasing to thee." "Let the
     bride-price that befits me be paid,"
     said the maiden, "and after that let my desire be
     fulfilled." "It shall be as thou hast said," the king
     answered her; and he gave the value of seven
     cumals to be her brideprice; and after that he brought
     her to Tara, whereon a fair and hearty welcome was made to
     her.
     
     Now there were three
     brothers of the one blood, all sons of Finn,
     namely, Eochaid Airem, and Eochaid, and Ailill
     Anglonnach, or Ailill of the Single Stain,
     because the only stain that was upon him
     was the love that he had for his
     brother's wife. And at that time
     came all the men of Ireland to hold the festival
     of Tara; they were there for
     fourteen days before Samhain, the day when the summer endeth,
     and for fourteen days after that day. It
     was at the feast of Tara that love for Etain the
     daughter of Etar came upon Ailill Anglonnach; and ever so
     long as they were at the Tara Feast, so long he gazed upon the
     maid. And it was there that the wife of Ailill
     spoke to him; she who was the daughter of Luchta of the Red
     Hand, who came from the province of Leinster:
     "Ailill," said she, "why dost thou gaze at her
     from afar? for long gazing is a token of love." And Ailill
     gave blame to himself for this thing, and after
     that he looked not upon the maid.
     
     Now it followed that after that the Feast of Tara had been
     consumed, the men of Ireland parted from one another, and then
     it was that Ailill became filled with the pangs of envy and
     of desire; and he brought upon himself the choking
     misery of a sore sickness, and was borne
     to the stronghold of Fremain in Tethba
     after that he had fallen into that woe.
     There also, until a whole year had ended, sickness long
     brooded over Ailill, and for long was he in distress,
     yet he allowed none to know of his
     sickness. And there Eochaid came to
     learn of his brother's state, and he came near to his brother,
     and laid his hand upon his chest; and Ailill heaved a
     sigh. "Why," said Eochaid, "surely this sickness of thine is not
     such as to cause thee to lament; how fares it with
     thee?" "By my word," said Ailill, "'tis no easier that I
     grow; but it is worse each day, and each night." "Why, what
     ails thee?" said Eochaid, "By my word of truth," said
     Ailill, "I know not." "Bring one of my folk hither," said
     Eochaid, "one who can find out
     the cause of this illness."
     Then Fachtna, the chief physician of Eochaid, was
     summoned to give aid to Ailill,
     and he laid his hand upon his chest, and Ailill heaved a sigh.
     "Ah," said Fachtna, "there is no need for lament
     in this matter, for I know the cause of thy sickness; one or other
     of these two evils oppresseth thee, the
     pangs of envy, or the pangs of love: nor hast
     thou been aided to escape from them until now." And
     Ailill was full of shame, and he refused to confess
     to Fachtna the cause of his illness, and the physician
     left him.
     
     Now, after all this,
     king Eochaid went in person to make a royal progress
     throughout the realm of Ireland, and he left Etain
     behind him in his fortress; and "Lady," said he,
     "deal thou gently with Ailill so long as he is yet alive;
     and, should he die," said he, "do thou see
     that his burial mound be heaped for him; and that a
     standing-stone be set up in memory of
     him; and let his name be written upon
     it in letters of Ogham." Then the king went away for the
     space of a year, to make his royal progress
     throughout the realm of Ireland, and Ailill was left behind, in
     the stronghold of Fremain of Tethba; there to pass away
     and to die.
     
     Now upon a certain day that followed, the lady
     Etain came to the house where Ailill lay in his sickness,
     and thus she spoke to him: "What is it," she said,
     "that ails thee? thy sickness is great, and if we but
     knew anything that would content thee, thou shouldest have
     it." It was thus that at that time she spoke, and she sang
     a verse of a song, and Ailill in song made
     answer to her:
     
     
     Etain
     Young man, of the strong step and splendid,
     What hath bound thee? what ill dost thou bear?
     Thou hast long been on sick-bed extended,
     Though around thee the sunshine was fair.
     
     
     Ailill
     There is reason indeed for my
     sighing, I joy naught at my harp's pleasant sound;
     Milk untasted beside me is lying; And by this in disease
     am I bound.
     
     
     Etain
     Tell me all, thou poor man, of thine ailing; For a maiden am
     I that is wise; Is there naught, that to heal thee availing,
     Thou couldst win by mine aid, and arise
     
     Ailill
     If I told thee, thou beautiful maiden, My words, as I formed
     them, would choke, For with fire can eyes' curtains
     be laden:
     Woman-secrets are evil, if woke.
     
     
     Etain
     It is ill woman-secrets to waken; Yet with Love, its
     remembrance is long; And its part by itself may be taken, Nor a
     thought shall remain of the wrong.
     
     
     Ailill
     I adore thee, white lady, as grateful; Yet thy bounty deserve
     I but ill:
     To my soul is my longing but
     hateful,
     For my body doth strive with me still.
     
     Eocho Fedlech,[FN#9] his bride to
     him taking, Made thee queen; and from thence is my
     woe:
     For my head and my body are aching, And all Ireland my weakness
     must know.
     
     
     Etain
     If, among the white women who near me abide, There is one who is
     vexing, whose love thou dost hide; To thy side will I
     bring her, if thus I may please; And
     in love thou shalt win her, thy sickness to ease.
     
     
     Ah lady! said Ailill, "easily could the cure of my sickness
     be wrought by the aid of thee, and great
     gain should there come from the deed,
     but thus it is with me until that be accomplished:
     
     Long ago did my passion begin, A full year it
     exceeds in
     its length; And it holds me, more near
     than my skin, And it rules over wrath in its
     strength.
     
     And the earth into four it can shake, Can reach up
     to the heights of the sky And a neck with its
     might it can break, Nor from fight with a spectre
     would fly.
     
     In vain race up to heaven 'tis
     urged; It is chilled, as with water, and
     drowned:
     'Tis a weapon, in ocean submerged;
     'Tis desire for an echo, a sound.
     
     'Tis thus my love, my passion seem; 'tis thus I strive in vain
     To win the heart of her whose love I long so much to
     gain.
     
     
     [FN#9] Pronounced Yeo-ho
     Fayllya, see note, p. 166.
     
     
     And the lady stood there in that place, and she looked upon
     Ailill, and the sickness in which he lay was
     perceived by her; and she was grieved
     on account of it: so that upon a certain day came the lady to
     Ailill, and "Young man," she said,
     "arouse thyself quickly, for in very truth thou shalt
     have all that thou desirest;
     and thereon did she make this
     lay:
     
     
     Now arouse thyself, Ailill the royal:
     Let thy heart, and thy courage rise high;
     Every longing thou hast shall be sated, For before
     thee, to heal thee, am I.
     
     Is my neck and its beauty so pleasing?
     'Tis around it thine arms thou shalt place; And 'tis known as a
courtship's beginning When a man and a woman embrace.

                And if this cometh not to content thee, O thou man, that art son
to a king!

            I will dare to do crime for thy healing, And my body to please thee
will bring.

    There were steeds, with their bridles, one hundred, When the price
 for my wedding was told; And one hundred of gay-coloured garments, And
                      of cattle, and ounces of gold.

                              Of each beast that men know, came one hundred; And king Eocho to
grant them was swift:
When a king gave such dowry to gain me, Is't not wondrous to win
me, as gift?

                      Now each day the lady came to Ailill to tend him, and to divide for
him the portion of food that was allotted to him; and she wrought
a great healing upon him: for it grieved her that he should perish
for her sake.

                        And one day the lady spoke to Ailill: "Come thou to-morrow," said
she, "to tryst with me at the break of day, in the house which lieth
outside, and is beyond the fort, and there shalt thou have granted
thy request and thy desire."

                        On that night Ailill lay without sleep until the coming of the
morning; and when the time had come that was appointed for his
tryst, his sleep lay heavily upon him; so that till the hour of his
rising he lay deep in his sleep.

                          And Etain went to the tryst, nor had she long to wait ere she saw
a man coming towards her in the likeness of Ailill, weary and feeble;
but she knew that he was not Ailill, and she continued there waiting
for Ailill.

                               And the lady came back from her tryst, and Ailill awoke, and thought
that he would rather die than live; and he went in great sadness
and grief.

                                And the
                               lady came to speak with him, and when he told her what had befallen
him: "Thou shalt come," said she, "to the same place, to meet with
me upon the morrow."

And upon the morrow it was the same as upon the first day; each day
came that man to her tryst. And she came again upon the last day that was
appointed for the tryst, and the same man met her. "'Tis not with thee
that I trysted," said she, "why dost thou come to meet me? and for him
whom I would have met here; neither from desire of his love nor for fear
of danger from him had I appointed to meet him, but only to heal him, and
to cure him from the sickness which had come upon him for his love of me."
"It were more fitting for thee to come to tryst with me," says the man,
"for when thou wast Etain of the Horses, and when thou wast the daughter
of Ailill, I myself was thy husband. "Why," said she, "what name hast
thou in the land? that is what I would demand of thee." "It is not
hard to answer thee," he said; "Mider of Bri Leith is my name." "And
what made thee to part from me, if we were as thou sayest?" said Etain.
"Easy again is the answer," said Mider; "it was the sorcery of Fuamnach and
the spells of Bressal Etarlam that put us apart." And Mider said to Etain:
"Wilt thou come with me?"
"Nay," answered Etain, "I will not exchange the king of all Ireland for
thee; for a man whose kindred and whose lineage is unknown." "It was I
myself indeed," said Mider, "who filled all the mind of Ailill with
love for thee: it was I also who prevented his coming to the tryst with
thee, and allowed him not thine honour to spoil it."
After all this the lady went back to her house, and she came to
speech with Ailill, and she greeted him. "It hath happened well for us
both," said Ailill, "that the man met thee there: for I am cured for ever
from my illness, thou also art unhurt in thine honour, and may a blessing
rest upon thee!" "Thanks be to our gods," said Etain, "that both of us do
indeed deem that all this hath chanced so well." And after that Eochaid
came back from his royal progress, and he asked at once for his
brother; and the tale was told to him from the beginning to the end, and
the king was grateful to Etain, in that she had been gracious to
Ailill; and, "What hath been related in this tale," said Eochaid, "is
well-pleasing to ourselves."
And, for the after history of Eochaid and Etain, it is told that once
when Eochaid was in Fremain, at such time as the people had prepared
for themselves a great gathering and certain horse-races; thither also
to that assembly came Etain, that she might see the sight. Thither also
came Mider, and he searched through that assembly to find out where Etain
might be; and he found Etain, and her women around her, and he bore her
away with him, also one of her handmaidens, called Crochen the Ruddy:
hideous was the form in which Mider approached them. And the wives of the
men of Ireland raised cries of woe, as the queen was carried off from
among them; and the horses of Ireland were loosed to pursue Mider, for they
knew not whether it was into the air or into the earth he had gone.
But, as for Mider, the course that he had taken was the road to the west,
even to the plain of Croghan; and as he came thither, "How shall it
profit us," said Crochen the Ruddy, "this journey of ours to this plain?"
"For evermore," said Mider, "shall thy name be over all this plain:"
and hence cometh the name of the plain of Croghan, and of the Fort of
Croghan. Then Mider came to the Fairy Mound of Croghan; for the dwellers
in that mound were allied to him, and his friends; and for nine days they
lingered there, banqueting and feasting; so that "Is this the place
where thou makest thy home?" said Crochen to Mider. "Eastwards from
this is my dwelling," Mider answered her; "nearer to the rising-place of
the sun;" and Mider, taking Etain with him, departed, and came to Bri
Leith, where the son of Celthar had his palace.

Now just at the time when they came to this palace, king Eochaid sent out
from him the horsemen of Ireland, also his wizards, and his officers who
had the care of the roads, and the couriers of the boundaries, that they
might search through Ireland, and find out where his wife might be; and
Eochaid himself wandered throughout Ireland to seek for his wife; and
for a year from that day until the same day upon the year that followed
he searched, and he found nothing to profit him.

Then, at the last, king Eochaid sent for his Druid, and he set to him
the task to seek for Etain; now the name of the Druid was Dalan. And
Dalan came before him upon that day; and he went westwards, until he came
to the mountain that was after that known as Slieve Dalan; and he
remained there upon that night. And the Druid deemed it a grievous thing
that Etain should be hidden from him for the space of one year,
and thereupon he made three wands of yew; and upon the wands he wrote an
ogham; and by the keys of wisdom that he had, and by the ogham, it was
revealed to him that Etain was in the fairy mound of Bri Leith, and that
Mider had borne her thither.

Then Dalan the Druid turned him, and went back to the east; and he came to
the stronghold of Fremain, even to the place where the king of Ireland
was; and Eochaid asked from the Druid his news. Thither also came the
horsemen, and the wizards, and the officers who had the care of the roads,
and the couriers of the boundaries, to the king of Ireland, and
he asked them what tidings they had, and whether they had found
news of Mider and Etain. And they said that they had found nothing
at all; until at the last said his Druid to him: "A great evil hath
smitten thee, also shame, and misfortune, on account of the loss
of thy wife. Do thou assemble the warriors of Ireland, and depart
to Bri Leith, where is the palace of the son of Celthar; let that
palace be destroyed by thy hand, and there thou shalt find thy wife:
by persuasion or by force do thou take her thence."
Then Eochaid and the men of Ireland marched to Bri Leith, and they
set themselves to destroy that fairy dwelling, and to demand that
Etain be brought to them, and they brought her not. Then they ruined
that fairy dwelling, and they brought Etain out from it; and she
returned to Fremain, and there she had all the worship that a king
of Ireland can bestow, fair wedded love and affection, such as was
her due from Eochaid Airemm. This is that Eochaid who ruled over
Ireland for twelve years, until the fire burned him in Fremain; and
this tale is known by the name of the "Sick-bed of Ailill," also
as "The Courtship of Etain." Etain bore no children to Eochaid
Airemm, save one daughter only; and the name of her mother was given
to her, and she is known by the name of Etain, the daughter of
Eochaid Airemm. And it was her daughter Messbuachalla who was the
mother of king Conary the Great, the son of Eterscel, and it was
for this cause that the fairy host of Mag Breg and Mider of Bri
Leith violated the tabus of king Conary, and devastated the plain
of Breg, and out off Conary's life; on account of the capture of
that fairy dwelling, and on account of the recovery of Etain, when
she was carried away by violence, even by the might of Eochaid
Airemm.

THE COURTSHIP OF ETAIN
LEABHAR NA H-UIDHRI VERSION
Eochaid Airemon took the sovereignty over Erin, and the five provinces
of Ireland were obedient to him, for the king of each province was
his vassal.While all the rest envied him his good fortune, he cursed it,
saying, "A pox on it, that it should come so early upon me, for this
fortune two hours hence would be worth something to me, but then, God damn
me, I shall have no such luck."  This kind of prophane, mad entertainment
they give themselves.  And so I, having enough for once, refusing to
venture, though Brisband pressed me hard, and tempted me with saying that
no man was ever known to lose the first time, the devil being too cunning
to discourage a gamester; and he offered me also to lend me ten pieces to
venture; but I did refuse, and so went away, and took coach and home about
9 or to at night, where not finding my wife come home, I took the same
coach again, and leaving my watch behind me for fear of robbing, I did go
back and to Mrs. Pierces, thinking they might not have broken up yet, but
there I find my wife newly gone, and not going out of my coach spoke only
to Mr. Pierce in his nightgown in the street, and so away back again home,
and there to supper with my wife and to talk about their dancing and
doings at Mrs. Pierces to-day, and so to bed.

2nd.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes by coach to White Hall, and there
attended the King and the Duke of York in the Duke of York's lodgings,
with the rest of the Officers and many of the Commanders of the fleete,
and some of our master shipwrights, to discourse the business of having
the topmasts of ships made to lower abaft of the mainmast; a business I
understand not, and so can give no good account; but I do see that by how
much greater the Council, and the number of Counsellors is, the more
confused the issue is of their councils; so that little was said to the
purpose regularly, and but little use was made of it, they coming to a
very broken conclusion upon it, to make trial in a ship or two.  From this
they fell to other talk about the fleete's fighting this late war, and how
the King's ships have been shattered; though the King said that the world
would not have it that about ten or twenty ships in any fight did do any
service, and that this hath been told so to him himself, by ignorant
people.  The Prince, who was there, was mightily surprised at it, and
seemed troubled: but the King told him that it was only discourse of the
world.  But Mr. Wren whispered me in the eare, and said that the Duke of
Albemarle had put it into his Narrative for the House, that not above
twenty-five ships fought in the engagement wherein he was, but that he was
advised to leave it out; but this he did write from sea, I am sure, or
words to that effect: and did displease many commanders, among others,
Captain Batts, who the Duke of York said was a very stout man, all the
world knew; and that another was brought into his ship that had been
turned out of his place when he was a boatswain, not long before, for
being a drunkard.  This the Prince took notice of, and would have been
angry, I think, but they let their discourse fall: but the Duke of York
was earnest in it.  And the Prince said to me, standing by me, "God damn
me, if they will turn out every man that will be drunk, they must turn out
all the commanders in the fleete.  What is the matter if he be drunk, so
when he comes to fight he do his work?  At least, let him be punished for
his drunkenness, and not put out of his command presently." This he spoke,
very much concerned for this idle fellow, one Greene. After this the King
began to tell stories of the cowardice of the Spaniards in Flanders, when
he was there, at the siege of Mardike and Dunkirke; which was very pretty,
though he tells them but meanly.  This being done I to Westminster Hall,
and there staid a little: and then home, and by the way did find with
difficulty the Life of Sir Philip Sidney (the book I mentioned yesterday).
And the bookseller told me that he had sold four, within this week or two,
which is more than ever he sold in all his life of them; and he could not
imagine what should be the reason of it: but I suppose it is from the same
reason of people's observing of this part therein, touching his
prophesying our present condition here in England in relation to the
Dutch, which is very remarkable.  So home to dinner, where Balty's wife is
come to town; she come last night and lay at my house, but being weary was
gone to bed before I come home, and so I saw her not before.  After dinner
I took my wife and her girl out to the New Exchange, and there my wife
bought herself a lace for a handkercher, which I do give her, of about L3,
for a new year's gift, and I did buy also a lace for a band for myself,
and so home, and there to the office busy late, and so home to my chamber,
where busy on some accounts, and then to supper and to bed.  This day my
wife shows me a locket of dyamonds worth about L40, which W. Hewer do
press her to accept, and hath done for a good while, out of his gratitude
for my kindness and hers to him.  But I do not like that she should
receive it, it not being honourable for me to do it; and so do desire her
to force him to take it back again, he leaving it against her will
yesterday with her.  And she did this evening force him to take it back,
at which she says he is troubled; but, however, it becomes me more to
refuse it, than to let her accept of it.  And so I am well pleased with
her returning it him.  It is generally believed that France is
endeavouring a firmer league with us than the former, in order to his
going on with his business against Spayne the next year; which I am, and
so everybody else is, I think, very glad of, for all our fear is, of his
invading us.  This day, at White Hall, I overheard Sir W. Coventry propose
to the King his ordering of some particular thing in the Wardrobe, which
was of no great value; but yet, as much as it was, it was of profit to the
King and saving to his purse.  The King answered to it with great
indifferency, as a thing that it was no great matter whether it was done
or no. Sir W. Coventry answered: "I see your Majesty do not remember the
old English proverb, 'He that will not stoop for a pin, will never be
worth a pound.'"  And so they parted, the King bidding him do as he would;
which, methought, was an answer not like a King that did intend ever to do
well.

3rd.  At the office all the morning with Mr. Willson and my clerks,
consulting again about a new contract with the Victualler of the Navy, and
at noon home to dinner, and then to the office again, where busy all the
afternoon preparing something for the Council about Tangier this evening.
So about five o'clock away with it to the Council, and there do find that
the Council hath altered its times of sitting to the mornings, and so I
lost my labour, and back again by coach presently round by the city wall,
it being dark, and so home, and there to the office, where till midnight
with Mr. Willson and my people to go through with the Victualler's
contract and the considerations about the new one, and so home to supper
and to bed, thinking my time very well spent.

4th.  Up, and there to the office, where we sat all the morning; at noon
home to dinner, where my clerks and Mr. Clerke the sollicitor with me, and
dinner being done I to the office again, where all the afternoon till late
busy, and then home with my mind pleased at the pleasure of despatching my
business, and so to supper and to bed, my thoughts full, how to order our
design of having some dancing at our house on Monday next, being
Twelfth-day.  It seems worth remembering that this day I did hear my Lord
Anglesey at the table, speaking touching this new Act for Accounts, say
that the House of Lords did pass it because it was a senseless,
impracticable, ineffectual, and foolish Act; and that my Lord Ashly having
shown this that it was so to the House of Lords, the Duke of Buckingham
did stand up and told the Lords that they were beholden to my Lord Ashly,
that having first commended them for a most grave and honourable assembly,
he thought it fit for the House to pass this Act for Accounts because it
was a foolish and simple Act: and it seems it was passed with but a few in
the House, when it was intended to have met in a grand Committee upon it.
And it seems that in itself it is not to be practiced till after this
session of Parliament, by the very words of the Act, which nobody
regarded, and therefore cannot come in force yet, unless the next meeting
they do make a new Act for the bringing it into force sooner; which is a
strange omission.  But I perceive my Lord Anglesey do make a mere
laughing-stock of this Act, as a thing that can do nothing considerable,
for all its great noise.

5th (Lord's day).  Up, and being ready, and disappointed of a coach, it
breaking a wheel just as it was coming for me, I walked as far as the
Temple, it being dirty, and as I went out of my doors my cozen Anthony
Joyce met me, and so walked part of the way with me, and it was to see
what I would do upon what his wife a little while since did desire, which
was to supply him L350 to enable him to go to build his house again.  I
(who in my nature am mighty unready to answer no to anything, and thereby
wonder that I have suffered no more in my life by my easiness in that kind
than I have) answered him that I would do it, and so I will, he offering
me good security, and so it being left for me to consider the manner of
doing it we parted.  Taking coach as I said before at the Temple, I to
Charing Cross, and there went into Unthanke's to have my shoes wiped,
dirty with walking, and so to White Hall, where I visited the
Vice-Chamberlain, who tells me, and so I find by others, that the business
of putting out of some of the Privy-council is over, the King being at
last advised to forbear it; for whereas he did design it to make room for
some of the House of Commons that are against him, thereby to gratify
them, it is believed that it will but so much the more fret the rest that
are not provided for, and raise a new stock of enemies by them that are
displeased, and so all they think is over: and it goes for a pretty saying
of my Lord Anglesey's up and down the Court, that he should lately say to
one of them that are the great promoters of this putting him and others
out of the Council, "Well," says he, "and what are we to look for when we
are outed?  Will all things be set right in the nation?" The other said
that he did believe that many things would be mended: "But," says my Lord,
"will you and the rest of you be contented to be hanged, if you do not
redeem all our misfortunes and set all right, if the power be put into
your hands?"  The other answered, "No, I would not undertake that:"--"Why,
then," says my Lord, "I and the rest of us that you are labouring to put
out, will be contented to be hanged, if we do not recover all that is
past, if the King will put the power into our hands, and adhere wholly to
our advice;" which saying as it was severe, so generally people have so
little opinion of those that are likely to be uppermost that they do
mightily commend my Lord Anglesey for this saying. From the
Vice-Chamberlain up and down the house till Chapel done, and then did
speak with several that I had a mind to, and so intending to go home, my
Lady Carteret saw and called me out of her window, and so would have me
home with her to Lincoln's Inn Fields to dinner, and there we met with my
Lord Brereton, and several other strangers, to dine there; and I find him
a very sober and serious, able man, and was in discourse too hard for the
Bishop of Chester, who dined there; and who, above all books lately wrote,
commending the matter and style of a late book, called "The Causes of the
Decay of Piety," I do resolve at his great commendation to buy it.  Here
dined also Sir Philip Howard, a Barkeshire Howard, whom I did once hear
swear publickly and loud in the matted gallery that he had not been at a
wench in so long a time.  He did take occasion to tell me at the table
that I have got great ground in the Parliament, by my ready answers to all
that was asked me there about the business of Chatham, and they would
never let me be out of employment, of which I made little; but was glad to
hear him, as well as others, say it.  And he did say also, relating to
Commissioner Pett, that he did not think that he was guilty of anything
like a fault, that he was either able or concerned to amend, but only the
not carrying up of the ships higher, he meant; but he said, three or four
miles lower down, to Rochester Bridge, which is a strange piece of
ignorance in a Member of Parliament at such a time as this, and after so
many examinations in the house of this business; and did boldly declare
that he did think the fault to lie in my Lord Middleton, who had the power
of the place, to secure the boats that were made ready by Pett, and to do
anything that he thought fit, and was much, though not altogether in the
right, for Spragg, that commanded the river, ought rather to be charged
with the want of the boats and the placing of them. After dinner, my Lord
Brereton very gentilely went to the organ, and played a verse very
handsomely.  Thence after dinner away with Sir G. Carteret to White Hall,
setting down my Lord Brereton at my Lord Brouncker's, and there up and
down the house, and on the Queen's side, to see the ladies, and there saw
the Duchesse of York, whom few pay the respect they used, I think, to her;
but she bears all out, with a very great deal of greatness; that is the
truth of it.  And so, it growing night, I away home by coach, and there
set my wife to read, and then comes Pelling, and he and I to sing a
little, and then sup and so to bed.

6th.  Up, leaving my wife to get her ready, and the maids to get a supper
ready against night for our company; and I by coach to White Hall, and
there up and down the house, and among others met with Mr. Pierce, by whom
I find, as I was afeard from the folly of my wife, that he understood that
he and his wife was to dine at my house to-day, whereas it was to sup; and
therefore I, having done my business at court, did go home to dinner, and
there find Mr. Harris, by the like mistake, come to dine with me.
However, we did get a pretty dinner ready for him; and there he and I to
discourse of many things, and I do find him a very excellent person, such
as in my whole [acquaintances] I do not know another better qualified for
converse, whether in things of his own trade, or of other kinds, a man of
great understanding and observation, and very agreeable in the manner of
his discourse, and civil as far as is possible.  I was mightily pleased
with his company; and after dinner did take coach with him, and my wife
and girl, to go to a play, and to carry him thither to his own house.  But
I 'light by the way to return home, thinking to have spoke with Mrs.
Bagwell, who I did see to-day in our entry, come from Harwich, whom I have
not seen these twelve months, I think, and more, and voudrai avoir hazer
alcun with her, sed she was gone, and so I took coach and away to my wife
at the Duke of York's house, in the pit, and so left her; and to Mrs.
Pierce, and took her and her cozen Corbet, Knepp and little James, and
brought them to the Duke's house; and, the house being full, was forced to
carry them to a box, which did cost me 20s., besides oranges, which
troubled me, though their company did please me.  Thence, after the play,
stayed till Harris was undressed, there being acted "The Tempest," and so
he withall, all by coach, home, where we find my house with good fires and
candles ready, and our Office the like, and the two Mercers, and Betty
Turner, Pendleton, and W. Batelier.  And so with much pleasure we into the
house, and there fell to dancing, having extraordinary Musick, two
viollins, and a base viollin, and theorbo, four hands, the Duke of
Buckingham's musique, the best in towne, sent me by Greeting, and there we
set in to dancing.  By and by to my house, to a very good supper, and
mighty merry, and good musick playing; and after supper to dancing and
singing till about twelve at night; and then we had a good sack posset for
them, and an excellent cake, cost me near 20s., of our Jane's making,
which was cut into twenty pieces, there being by this time so many of our
company, by the coming in of young Goodyer and some others of our
neighbours, young men that could dance, hearing of our dancing; and anon
comes in Mrs. Turner, the mother, and brings with her Mrs. Hollworthy,
which pleased me mightily.  And so to dancing again, and singing, with
extraordinary great pleasure, till about two in the morning, and then
broke up; and Mrs. Pierce and her family, and Harris and Knepp by coach
home, as late as it was.  And they gone, I took Mrs. Turner and Hollworthy
home to my house, and there gave wine and sweetmeats; but I find Mrs.
Hollworthy but a mean woman, I think, for understanding, only a little
conceited, and proud, and talking, but nothing extraordinary in person, or
discourse, or understanding.  However, I was mightily pleased with her
being there, I having long longed for to know her, and they being gone, I
paid the fiddlers L3 among the four, and so away to bed, weary and
mightily pleased, and have the happiness to reflect upon it as I do
sometimes on other things, as going to a play or the like, to be the
greatest real comfort that I am to expect in the world, and that it is
that that we do really labour in the hopes of; and so I do really enjoy
myself, and understand that if I do not do it now I shall not hereafter,
it may be, be able to pay for it, or have health to take pleasure in it,
and so fill myself with vain expectation of pleasure and go without it.

7th.  Up, weary, about 9 o'clock, and then out by coach to White Hall to
attend the Lords of the Treasury about Tangier with Sir Stephen Fox, and
having done with them I away back again home by coach time enough to
dispatch some business, and after dinner with Sir W. Pen's coach (he being
gone before with Sir D. Gawden) to White Hall to wait on the Duke of York,
but I finding him not there, nor the Duke of York within, I away by coach
to the Nursery, where I never was yet, and there to meet my wife and
Mercer and Willet as they promised; but the house did not act to-day; and
so I was at a loss for them, and therefore to the other two playhouses
into the pit, to gaze up and down, to look for them, and there did by this
means, for nothing, see an act in "The Schoole of Compliments" at the Duke
of York's house, and "Henry the Fourth" at the King's house; but, not
finding them, nor liking either of the plays, I took my coach again, and
home, and there to my office to do business, and by and by they come home,
and had been at the King's House, and saw me, but I could [not] see them,
and there I walked with them in the garden awhile, and to sing with Mercer
there a little, and so home with her, and taught her a little of my "It is
decreed," which I have a mind to have her learn to sing, and she will do
it well, and so after supper she went away, and we to bed, and there made
amends by sleep for what I wanted last night.

8th.  Up, and it being dirty, I by coach (which I was forced to go to the
charge for) to White Hall, and there did deliver the Duke of York a
memorial for the Council about the case of Tangiers want of money; and I
was called in there and my paper was read.  I did not think fit to say
much, but left them to make what use they pleased of my paper; and so went
out and waited without all the morning, and at noon hear that there is
something ordered towards our help, and so I away by coach home, taking up
Mr. Prin at the Court-gate, it raining, and setting him down at the
Temple: and by the way did ask him about the manner of holding of
Parliaments, and whether the number of Knights and Burgesses were always
the same?  And he says that the latter were not; but that, for aught he
can find, they were sent up at the discretion, at first, of the Sheriffes,
to whom the writs are sent, to send up generally the Burgesses and
citizens of their county: and he do find that heretofore the
Parliament-men being paid by the country, several burroughs have
complained of the Sheriffes putting them to the charge of sending up
Burgesses; which is a very extraordinary thing to me, that knew not this,
but thought that the number had been known, and always the same.  Thence
home to the office, and so with my Lord Brouncker and his mistress,
Williams, to Captain Cocke's to dinner, where was Temple and Mr. Porter,
and a very good dinner, and merry.  Thence with Lord Brouncker to White
Hall to the Commissioners of the Treasury at their sending for us to
discourse about the paying of tickets, and so away, and I by coach to the
'Change, and there took up my wife and Mercer and the girl by agreement,
and so home, and there with Mercer to teach her more of "It is decreed,"
and to sing other songs and talk all the evening, and so after supper I to
even my journall since Saturday last, and so to bed.  Yesterday Mr.
Gibson, upon his discovering by my discourse to him that I had a
willingness, or rather desire, to have him stay with me, than go, as he
designed, on Sir W. Warren's account, to sea, he resolved to let go the
design and wait his fortune with me, though I laboured hard to make him
understand the uncertainty of my condition or service, but however he will
hazard it, which I take mighty kindly of him, though troubled lest he may
come to be a loser by it, but it will not be for want of my telling him
what he was to think on and expect.  However, I am well pleased with it,
with regard to myself, who find him mighty understanding and acquainted
with all things in the Navy, that I should, if I continue in the Navy,
make great use of him.

9th.  Up, and to the office, having first been visited by my cozen Anthony
Joyce about the L350 which he desires me to lend him, and which I have a
mind enough to do, but would have it in my power to call it out again in a
little time, and so do take a little further time to consider it.  So to
the office, where all the morning busy, and so home at noon to dinner with
my people, where Mr. Hollier come and dined with me, and it is still
mighty pleasant to hear him talk of Rome and the Pope, with what hearty
zeal and hatred he talks against him.  After dinner to the office again,
where busy till night, very busy, and among other things wrote to my
father about lending Anthony Joyce the money he desires; and I declare
that I would do it as part of Pall's portion, and that Pall should have
the use of the money till she be married, but I do propose to him to think
of Mr. Cumberland rather than this Jackson that he is upon; and I confess
I have a mighty mind to have a relation so able a man, and honest, and so
old an acquaintance as Mr. Cumberland.  I shall hear his answer by the
next [post].  At night home and to cards with my wife and girle, and to
supper late, and so to bed.

10th.  In aortic regurgitation Nature causes the heart to beat rapidly.
Such a heart must never beat slowly, as the longer the diastole prevails
the more blood will regurgitate into the left ventricle, and death may
occur from sudden anemia of the base of the brain. Such a heart may, of
course, receive a sudden strain, or the left ventricle may dilate, and yet
serious myocarditis or fatty degeneration may not have occurred.

The signs of lack of compensation are generally cardiac distress, rapid
heart, insufficiency of the systolic force of the left ventricle, and
therefore impaired peripheral circulation, a sluggish return circulation,
pendent edemas, and soon, with the left auricle finding the left
ventricle. insufficiently emptied, the damming back of the blood is in
broken compensation with the mitral lesions.

AORTIC STENOSIS

     Aortic narrowing or stenosis is a frequent occurrence in the aged and
     in arteriosclerosis when the aorta is involved. It is not a
     frequent single lesion in the young. If it occurs in children or
     young adults, it is likely to be combined with aortic regurgitation,
meaning that the valve hay been seriously injured by an endocarditis.

The first effect of this narrowing is to cause hypertrophy of the left
ventricle, and as long as this ventricle is able to force the blood through
the narrowed opening at the aortic valve, the general circulation is
perfect. Nature again steps in to cause such a heart to heat deliberately,
allowing time for the contracting ventricle to force the blood through the
narrowed orifice. The blood pressure may be sufficient, or even increased
if arteriosclerosis is present, although the rise of the sphygmograph tracing
is not so high as normal. If the pressure in the aorta is sufficient from
the amount of blood forced into it, the coronary arteries receive
enough blood to keep up the nutrition of the heart muscle. Sooner or later,
however, the left ventricle will become weakened, especially when there is
arteriosclerosis or other hypertension, and chronic endocarditis and
fatty degeneration result. If the left ventricle becomes sufficiently
weakened or dilated, the same damming back of the blood through the lungs
and right heart occurs, and more or less serious signs of broken
compensation develop. The main danger, however, with a heart with this
lesion, occurring coincidently with arteriosclerosis, is a progressive
chronic myocarditis.

OTHER LESIONS
Tricuspid insufficiency, except as rarely found in the fetus, is generally
due to a relative insufficiency rather than to an actual disease of the
tricuspid valve. In other words, if the right ventricle dilates the valve
may be insufficient. Tricuspid stenosis, pulmonary stenosis and pulmonary
insufficiency are rare, and are probably nearly always congenital.

The diagnosis as to whether the murmurs heard in the heart are hemic,
functional, accidental, or indicative of valvular lesions would be without
the scope of this book. It is always presumed that a correct diagnosis
has been made, or at least a presumptively correct diagnosis. Frequently
more than one murmur and more than one lesion in a heart are present. Often
one murmur denotes a permanent lesion, and another may be one that will
become corrected when compensation is improved.

SYMPTOMATOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF CHRONIC VALVULAR LESIONS
Before discussing the treatment of broken compensation in general,
it may be well to describe briefly the differences in the symptoms and
treatment of the various valvular lesions.

MITRAL STENOSIS: MITRAL NARROWING
This particular valvular defect occurs more frequently in women than in men,
and between the ages of 10 and 30, and is generally the result of
rheumatic endocarditis or chorea, perhaps 60 percent of mitral stenosis
having this origin. Other causes are various infections or chronic disease,
such as nephritis. Of course, like any valvular lesion, it may be
associated with other lesions, and sooner or later in many instances,
when the left ventricle becomes dilated or weakened, mitral insufficiency
also occurs.

It has sometimes seemed that high blood pressure has caused the left ventricle
to act with such force as to irritate this mitral valve, and later
develop from such irritation a sclerosis or narrowing, and stenosis
occurs. It has been suggested that, though lime may be of advantage
in heart weakness, as will be stated later, if the blood is overfull of
calcium ions the valvular irritations may more readily have deposits of
calcium, in other words, become calcareous, and therefore cause more
obstruction. It is quite likely, however, that this sort of deposit is
only a piece of the general calcification of tissue in arteriosclerosis
and old age, and could not be caused by the administration of calcium
to a younger patient, and might then occur in older patients even if
substances containing much calcium were kept out of the dict.

Calcium metabolisim in arteriosclerosis and in softening of the bones
is not well understood.

Patients with this lesion are seriously handicapped when any congestion
of the lungs occurs, such as pneumonia, pleurisy, or even bronchitis.
Asthma is especially serious in these cases, and these patients rarely
live to old age.

The pulse is generally slow, unless broken compensation occurs; dyspnea on
exertion is a prominent symptom; the increased secretion of mucus in the
bronchial tubes and throat is often troublesome, and there is liable to be
considerable cough. If these patients have an acute heart attack, a feeling
of suffocation is their worst symptom and the dyspnea may be great,
although there may be no tachycardia, these hearts often acting slowly
even when there is serious discomfort. When compensation fails, there
is an occurrence of all the usual symptoms, as previously described.

The distinctive diagnostic physical sign of this lesion is the diastolic and
perhaps presystolic murmur heard over the left ventricle, accentuated
at the apex and transmitted some distance to the left of the heart. There
is also an accentuated pulmonary closure. To palpation this lesion often
gives a characteristic presystolic thrill at and around the
apex.

The first symptoms of weakening of the compensation are irregularity in
the beat and venous congestion of the head and face, causing bluing of the
lips, often nosebleed, and sometimes hemoptysis and insomnia. Later the
usual series of disturbances from dilatation of the right ventricle
occurs. As previously stated, with the absence of good coronary circulation
and the consequent impaired nutrition, the left ventricle may also dilate
and the mitral valve may become insufficient. Sudden death from heart
failure may occur with this lesion more frequently than with mitral
insufficiency but less frequently than with aortic insufficiency.

     A particularly dangerous period for women with this lesion is
     when the blood pressure rises after the menopause and the patients
become full-blooded and begin to put on weight.

Also, these patients always suffer more or less from cold extremities. In
most cases they sleep best and with least disturbance with the head higher
than one pillow.

Besides the usual treatment for broken compensation in patients with this
lesion, digitalis is of the greatest value, and the slowing of the heart
by it, allowing the left ventricle to be more completely filled with the
blood coming through the narrowed mitral opening during the diastole,
is the object desired.

This drug acts similarly on both the right and left ventricles, and
though there is no real occasion for stimulation of the left ventricle,
and it is the right ventricle that is in trouble, dilated and
failing, still a greater force of left ventricle contraction helps the
peripheral circulation. The action on the right ventricle contributes
greatly to the relief of the patient by sending the blood through
the lungs and into the left auricle more forcibly. and the left ventricle
receives an increased amount of blood, the congestion in the lungs is
relieved, and the dyspnea improves. Perhaps there is no class of cardiac
diseases in which more frequent striking relief can be obtained than in
these cases of mitral stenosis.

If the congestion of the lungs is very great, and death seems imminent from
cardiac paralysis, if cyanosis is serious, and bloody.
frothy mucus is being expectorated, venesection and an intramuscular
injection of aseptic ergot may be indicated. Digitalis should also be
given, hypodermically perhaps, but its action would be too late if it was
not aided by other more quickly acting drugs. The physician may often save
life by such radical measures.

MITRAL INSUFFICIENCY: MITRAL REGURGITATION
This is the most frequent form of valvular disease of the heart, and is
due to a shortening or thickening of the valves, or to some adhesion
which does not permit the valve, to close properly, and the blood
consequently regurgitates from the left ventricle into the left auricle
during the contraction of the ventricle. Such regurgitation may occur
without valvular disease if for any reason the left ventricle becomes
dilated sufficiently to cause the valve to be insufficient. Such a
dilatation can generally be cured by rest and treatment. As with mitral
stenosis, the most frequent causes are rheumatism and chorea, with the
occasional other causes as previously enumerated.

The characteristic murmur of this lesion is a systolic blow, accentuated
at the apex, transmitted to the left of the thorax, generally heard in the
back, near the lower end of the scapula, and transmitted upward over the
precordia.

Of all cardiac lesions, this is the safest one to have. Sudden death
is unusual, the compensation of the heart seems to be most readily maintained,
and the patient is not so greatly dangered by overexertion or by inflammations
in the lungs. As in mitral stenosis, any increase in blood
pressure--whether the normal increase after the age of 40, any continued
earlier high tension, or increase from occupation or exercise--is serious
as causing the left ventricle to act more strenuously, so that more blood
is forced back into the left auricle, the lungs become congested, and
the right ventricle, sooner or later, becomes incompetent.

When compensation fails with these patients, the first sign is pendent edema
of the feet, ankles and legs; subsequently, if there is progressive failure
of compensation, the usual symptoms occur.

The treatment is principally rest and digitalis, and the recovery
of compensation is often almost phenomenal. Patients with this lesion
are likely to be children and young adults, and the heart muscle readily
responds as a rule to the treatment inaugurated. Later, in these
patients, or if the lesion occurs in older patients, the return
to compensation does not occur so readily.

If the condition is developed from a myocarditis or from fatty degeneration
of the heart, it may be impossible to cause the left ventricle to improve
so much as to overcome this relative dilatation or relative insufficiency
of the valve. If the dilatation of the left ventricle is due to some
poisoning such as nicotin, with proper treatment-- stopping the use
of tobacco, administration of digitalis, and rest-- the heart muscle
will generally recover and the valve again properly close.

AORTIC STENOSIS: AORTIC OBSTRUCTION
Valvular disease at the aortic orifice is much less common than at the
mitral orifice, and while stenosis or obstruction is less common
from rheumatism or acute inflammatory endocarditis than is insufficiency
of this valve, a narrowing or at least the clinical sign of narrowing,
denoted by a systolic blow at the base of the heart over the aortic
opening, is in arteriosclerosis and old age of frequent occurrence. If such
narrowing occurs without aortic insufficiency at the age at which it
usually occurs, it may not seriously affect the heart. It may follow acute
endocarditis, but it most frequently follows chronic endocarditis or
atheroma, in which the aortic valves become thickened and more or
less rigid; this condition most frequently occurs in men.

Anything that tends to increase arterial tension, as tobacco, lead or hard
work, or anything that tends to cause arterial disease, as alcohol or
syphilis, is often the cause of this lesion.

At times the edges of the valves may grow together from ulcerative
inflammation, and the lumen thus be diminished in size; or projecting
vegetations may interfere with the opening of the valve and with the
flow of blood. With such narrowing the left ventricle more or less rapidly
hypertrophies to overcome its increased work.

The murmur caused by this lesion is a systolic one, either accentuated
in the second intercostal space at the right of the sternum, or perhaps
heard loudest just to the left of the sternum in this region. The murmur
is also transmitted up the arteries into the neck, and may at times be
heard in the subclavian arteries.

     It may also be transmitted downward over the heart. The pulse is slow,
     the apex of the rise of the sphymographic arterial tracing is
     more or less sustained and rounded, and the rise is much less than
     normal.

If this lesion occurs in old age, there is general arterial disease
present, and the tension and compressibility of the arteries vary, depending
on how much they are hardened. The disturbed circulation is evidenced by
imperfect peripheral circulation and capillary sluggishly, with at times
pendent edema of the feet and ankles, but, perhaps, little congestion of
the lungs. The left ventricle being sufficient, there is no damming
back through the left auricle to the lungs. The left ventricle may,
however, become weakened, either by some sudden strain or by a chronic
myocarditis, and relative insufficiency of the mitral valve may occur.
The subsequent symptoms are typically those of loss of compensation.

This lesion may allow a patient to live for years, provided no other
serious disturbance of the heart occurs, such as myocarditis or coronary
disease; but sooner or later, with the failing force of the blood flow and
the lessened aortic pressure, slight attacks of anemia of the brain
occur, causing syncope or fainting. Also, sooner or later these patients
have little cardiac pains.

     They begin to "sense" their hearts. There may not be actual anginas,
     but a little feeling of discomfort, with perhaps pains shooting up
     into the neck, or a feeling of pressure under the sternum. Little
     excitements or overexertions are likely to make the heart attempt
     to contract more rapidly than it is able to drive the blood through
     the narrowed orifice, and this alone causes cardiac discomfort and
     the feeling of cardiac oppression.

It is essential, then, that these patients should not hasten and should
not become excited; and any drug or stimulant which would cause cardiac
excitement is bad for them. On the other hand, these are the very patients
in whom, sometimes, alcohol in small doses may be advisable, especially if
the patient is old; and a dose of alcohol used medicinally when an attack
of cardiac disturbance is present is good treatment. The quick dilatation
is valuable.
Nitroglycerin will also do good work in these cases, and with high blood
tension may be the only safe drug for the patient to have on hand. As soon
as his attack occurs, with or without real angina pectoris, let him
dissolve in his mouth a nitroglycerin tablet. If he feels faint,
he will feel better the moment he lies down, and in this instance he may
be improved by a cup of coffee, or a dose of caffein or camphor.

If the left ventricle becomes still weaker and shows signs of serious
weakness, or if there is actual dilatation, the question of whether or not
digitalis should be used is a subject for careful decision. The left
ventricle should not be forced to act too sturdily against this aortic
resistance. Consequently the dose of digitalis must be small. On the other
hand, it frequently happens, especially in old age, that myocarditis or
fatty degeneration has already occurred before this cardiac weakness
develops in the presence of aortic narrowing, and digitalis may not
be indicated at all. We cannot tell how far degeneration may have gone,
however, and small doses of digitalis used tentatively and carefully,
perhaps 5 drops of an active tincture two or three times a day,
and then the drug carefully increased to a little larger dose to see whether
improvement takes place, is the only way to ascertain whether or not digitalis
can be used with advantage. If it increases the cardiac pain and distress,
it should not be used. Strychnin is then the drug relied on, with
such other general medication as is needed, combined with the coincident
administration of nitroglycerin, which may also be given in conjunction
with digitalis, if deemed advisable.
Generally, however, if a heart with aortic stenosis needs stimulation, the
blood pressure is generally none too high, although there may be arteriosclerosis
present. Therefore when nitroglycerin is indicated to lower blood pressure,
digitalis is not usually indicated; when digitalis is indicated to aid
the heart, nitroglycerin is generally not indicated. These patients
must have high blood pressure to sustain perfect circulation at the base
of the brain.

Patients who have this lesion should not use tobacco in large amounts,
or sometimes even small amounts, as tobacco raises the blood
pressure and thus puts more work on the left ventricle; in the
second place, if the left ventricle is failing, much tobacco may
hasten its debility.

On the other hand, with a failing left ventricle and a long previous
use of tobacco, it is no time to prohibit its use absolutely. A failing
heart and the sudden stoppage of tobacco may prove a serious combination.

AORTIC INSUFFICIENCY: AORTIC REGURGITATION
This lesion, though not so common as the mitral lesion, is of not infrequent
occurrence in children and young adults as a sequence of acute
rheumatic endocarditis.

If it occurs later in life it generally is associated with aortic narrowing,
and is a part of the general endarteritis and perhaps atheroma of
the aorta. Sometimes it is caused by strenuous exertion apparently
rupturing the valve.

This form of valvular disease frequently ends in sudden death. On
the other hand, it is astonishing how active a person may be with this
really terrible cardiac defect. This lesion, from the frequent overdistention
of the left ventricle, is one which often causes pain. While the left
ventricle enlarges enormously to overcome the extra distention due to the
blood entering the ventricle from both directions, the muscle sooner or
later becomes degenerated from poor coronary circulation. Unless the left
ventricle can do its work well enough to maintain an adequate pressure
of blood in the aorta, the coronary circulation is insufficient, and chronic
myocarditis is the result. If the left ventricle has maintained this
pressure for a long time, edemas are not common unless the cardiac
weakness is serious and generally permanently serious: that is, slight
weakness, in this lesion, does not give edemas as does slight loss of
compensation in mitral disease, and unless the weakness of the ventricle
is serious, the lungs are not much affected.
The physical sign of this lesion is the diastolic murmur, which is
loudest of the base of the heart, is accentuated over the aortic
orifice, and is transmitted up into the neck and the subclavians,
and down over the heart and down the sternum with marked pulsation,
of the arteries (Corrigan pulse) and often of some of the peripheral
veins, notably of the arms and throat.
If the left ventricle becomes dilated the mitral valve may become
insufficient, when the usual lung symptoms occur, with hypertrophy
of the right ventricle; and if it fails, the usual venous symptoms
of loss of compensation follow. This lesion not infrequently causes
epistaxis, hemoptysis and hematemesis.
Digitalis is always of value in these cases, but it should not be
pushed. If a heart is slowed too much, the regurgitation into the
left ventricle is increased. Therefore such hearts should not be
slowed to less than eighty beats per minute, or sudden anemia of
the brain and sudden death may occur. These patients must not do
hard work.

TRICUSPID INSUFFICIENCY
This rarely, if ever, occurs alone; it is generally a sequence of
other valvular defects, and represents an overworked, dilated right
ventricle. It may, however, occur from lesions of the lungs which
impede the blood flow through them. Such are fibroid changes in the
lungs, emphysema, prolonged chronic bronchitis, the last stages of
pulmonary tuberculosis, old neglected pleurisies with cirrhosis or
fibrosis of the lung, and repeated attacks of asthma--anything,
whether valvular defect or pulmonary circulatory disturbance, which
increases the pressure ahead and the work of this ventricle.
The symptoms are those of loss of compensation as described under
other valvular lesions. There may be jugular pulsation, especially
evident in the external jugular on the left side. The liver enlarges
and may pulsate. There are edemas, dropsies, ascites and perhaps
hemorrhages. The heart is enlarged and there is a soft systolic
blow heard at the lower end of the sternum. The dyspnea is sometimes
very great, and cyanosis may be present, especially during paroxysms
of coughing.
This lesion of the heart is always benefited by digitalis, but the
continuance of the improvement and its amount depend, of course,
on the cause of the dilatation of the ventricle. Strychnin is often
of advantage. These patients should rarely receive vasodilators,
and hot baths, overheating, overloading the stomach and vigorous
purging should never be allowed. Sometimes improvement will not
take place until ascitic or pleuritic fluid, if present, has been
removed.

TRICUSPID STENOSIS: TRICUSPID OBSTRUCTION
This is rare and probably always congenital, and is supposed to be
due to an inflammation of the endocardium during intra-uterine
life.
In early childhood it is possible that it may be associated with
left-side endocarditis.
A special treatment of the heart, if any is needed, would probably
not be indicated unless there was associated tricuspid insufficiency,
when digitalis might be used.So he gone, I to read a little in my chamber, and so to bed.

20th.  Up, and all the morning at the office very busy, and at noon by
coach to Westminster, to the 'Chequer, about a warrant for Tangier money.
In my way both coming and going I did stop at Drumbleby's, the pipe-maker,
there to advise about the making of a flageolet to go low and soft; and he
do shew me a way which do do, and also a fashion of having two pipes of
the same note fastened together, so as I can play on one, and then echo it
upon the other, which is mighty pretty.  So to my Lord Crew's to dinner,
where we hear all the good news of our making a league now with Holland
against the French power coming over them, or us which is the first good
act that hath been done a great while, and done secretly, and with great
seeming wisdom; and is certainly good for us at this time, while we are in
no condition to resist the French, if they should come over hither; and
then a little time of peace will give us time to lay up something, which
these Commissioners of the Treasury are doing; and the world do begin to
see that they will do the King's work for him, if he will let them.  Here
dined Mr. Case, the minister, who, Lord! do talk just as I remember he
used to preach, and did tell a pretty story of a religious lady, Queen of
Navarre;

     [Marguerite de Valois, Queen of Navarre, sister of Francis I. of
     France.  The "pretty story" was doubtless from her "Heptameron," a
     work imitating in title and matter the "Decameron" of Boccaccio.
     She is said to be the heroine of some of the adventures.  It is fair
     to add that she wrote also the "Miroir dune Ame Pecheresse,"
     translated into English by Queen Elizabeth, the title of whose book
     was "A Godly Medytacyon of the Christian Soules," published by John
     Bale in 1548.--B.]

and my Lord also told a good story of Mr. Newman, the Minister in New
England, who wrote the Concordance, of his foretelling his death and
preaching a funeral sermon, and did at last bid the angels do their
office, and died.  It seems there is great presumption that there will be
a Toleration granted: so that the Presbyterians do hold up their heads;
but they will hardly trust the King or the Parliament what to yield them,
though most of the sober party be for some kind of allowance to be given
them.  Thence and home, and then to the 'Change in the evening, and there
Mr. Cade told me how my Lord Gerard is likely to meet with trouble, the
next sitting of Parliament, about [Carr] being set in the pillory; and I
am glad of it; and it is mighty acceptable to the world to hear, that,
among other reductions, the King do reduce his Guards, which do please
mightily.  So to my bookbinder's with my boy, and there did stay late to
see two or three things done that I had a mind to see done, and among
others my Tangier papers of accounts, and so home to supper and to bed.

21st.  Up, and while at the office comes news from Kate Joyce that if I
would see her husband alive, I must come presently.  So, after the office
was up, I to him, and W. Hewer with me, and find him in his sick bed (I
never was at their house, this Inne, before) very sensible in discourse
and thankful for my kindness to him, and his breath rattled in his
throate, and they did lay pigeons to his feet while I was in the house,
and all despair of him, and with good reason.  But the story is that it
seems on Thursday last he went sober and quiet out of doors in the morning
to Islington, and behind one of the inns, the White Lion, did fling
himself into a pond, was spied by a poor woman and got out by some people
binding up hay in a barn there, and set on his head and got to life, and
known by a woman coming that way; and so his wife and friends sent for.
He confessed his doing the thing, being led by the Devil; and do declare
his reason to be, his trouble that he found in having forgot to serve God
as he ought, since he come to this new employment: and I believe that, and
the sense of his great loss by the fire, did bring him to it, and so
everybody concludes.  He stayed there all that night, and come home by
coach next morning, and there grew sick, and worse and worse to this day.
I stayed awhile among the friends that were there, and they being now in
fear that the goods and estate would be seized on, though he lived all
this while, because of his endeavouring to drown himself, my cozen did
endeavour to remove what she could of plate out of the house, and desired
me to take my flagons; which I was glad of, and did take them away with me
in great fear all the way of being seized; though there was no reason for
it, he not being dead, but yet so fearful I was.  So home, and there eat
my dinner, and busy all the afternoon, and troubled at this business.  In
the evening with Sir D. Gawden, to Guild Hall, to advise with the
Towne-Clerke about the practice of the City and nation in this case: and
he thinks that it cannot be found self-murder; but if it be, it will fall,
all the estate, to the King.  So we parted, and I to my cozens again;
where I no sooner come but news was brought down from his chamber that he
was departed.  So, at their entreaty, I presently took coach to White
Hall, and there find Sir W. Coventry; and he carried me to the King, the
Duke of York being with him, and there told my story which I had told him:

     [This was not the only time that Pepys took trouble to save the
     estate of a friend who had committed suicide.  In the "Caveat Book"
     in the Record Office, p. 42 of the volume for 1677, is the following
     entry: "That no grant pass of the Estate of Francis Gurney of Maldon
     in Essex, who drowned himself in his own well on Tuesday night ye
     12th of this instant August, at the desire of Samuel Pepys, Esquire,
     August 20, 1677."]

and the King, without more ado, granted that, if it was found, the estate
should be to the widow and children.  I presently to each Secretary's
office, and there left caveats, and so away back again to my cozens,
leaving a chimney on fire at White Hall, in the King's closet; but no
danger.  And so, when I come thither, I find her all in sorrow, but she
and the rest mightily pleased with my doing this for them; and, indeed, it
was a very great courtesy, for people are looking out for the estate, and
the coroner will be sent to, and a jury called to examine his death. This
being well done to my and their great joy, I home, and there to my office,
and so to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up, mightily busy all the morning at the office.  At noon with Lord
Brouncker to Sir D. Gawden's, at the Victualling-Office, to dinner, where
I have not dined since he was Sheriff: He expected us; and a good dinner,
and much good company; and a fine house, and especially two rooms, very
fine, he hath built there.  His lady a good lady; but my Lord led himself
and me to a great absurdity in kissing all the ladies, but the finest of
all the company, leaving her out, I know not how; and I was loath to do
it, since he omitted it.  Here little Chaplin dined, who is like to be
Sheriff the next year; and a pretty humoured little man he is. I met here
with Mr. Talents, the younger, of Magdalene College, Chaplain here to the
Sheriff; which I was glad to see, though not much acquainted with him.
This day come the first demand from the Commissioners of Accounts to us,
and it contains more than we shall ever be able to answer while we live,
and I do foresee we shall be put to much trouble and some shame, at least
some of us.  Thence stole away after dinner to my cozen Kate's, and there
find the Crowner's jury sitting, but they could not end it, but put off
the business to Shrove Tuesday next, and so do give way to the burying of
him, and that is all; but they all incline to find it a natural death,
though there are mighty busy people to have it go otherwise, thinking to
get his estate, but are mistaken.  Thence, after sitting with her and
company a while, comforting her: though I can find she can, as all other
women, cry, and yet talk of other things all in a breath.  So home, and
thereto cards with my wife, Deb., and Betty Turner, and Batelier, and
after supper late to sing.  But, Lord! how did I please myself to make
Betty Turner sing, to see what a beast she is as to singing, not knowing
how to sing one note in tune; but, only for the experiment, I would not
for 40s. hear her sing a tune: worse than my wife a thousand times, so
that it do a little reconcile me to her.  So late to bed.

23rd.  At the Office all the morning; and at noon find the Bishop of
Lincolne come to dine with us; and after him comes Mr. Brisband; and there
mighty good company.  But the Bishop a very extraordinary good-natured
man, and one that is mightily pleased, as well as I am, that I live so
near Bugden, the seat of his bishopricke, where he is like to reside: and,
indeed, I am glad of it.  In discourse, we think ourselves safe for this
year, by this league with Holland, which pleases every body, and, they
say, vexes France; insomuch that D'Estrades; the French Embassador in
Holland, when he heard it, told the States that he would have them not
forget that his master is at the head of 100,000 men, and is but 28 years
old; which was a great speech.  The Bishop tells me he thinks that the
great business of Toleration will not, notwithstanding this talk, be
carried this Parliament; nor for the King's taking away the Deans' and
Chapters' lands to supply his wants, they signifying little to him, if he
had them, for his present service.  He gone, I mightily pleased with his
kindness, I to the office, where busy till night, and then to Mrs.
Turner's, where my wife, and Deb., and I, and Batelier spent the night,
and supped, and played at cards, and very merry, and so I home to bed.
She is either a very prodigal woman, or richer than she would be thought,
by her buying of the best things, and laying out much money in
new-fashioned pewter; and, among other things, a new-fashioned case for a
pair of snuffers, which is very pretty; but I could never have guessed
what it was for, had I not seen the snuffers in it.

24th.  Up before day to my Tangier accounts, and then out and to a
Committee of Tangier, where little done but discourse about reduction of
the charge of the garrison, and thence to Westminster about orders at the
Exchequer, and at the Swan I drank, and there met with a pretty ingenious
young Doctor of physic, by chance, and talked with him, and so home to
dinner, and after dinner carried my wife to the Temple, and thence she to
a play, and I to St. Andrew's church, in Holburne, at the 'Quest House,
where the company meets to the burial of my cozen Joyce; and here I staid
with a very great rabble of four or five hundred people of mean condition,
and I staid in the room with the kindred till ready to go to church, where
there is to be a sermon of Dr. Stillingfleete, and thence they carried him
to St. Sepulchre's.  But it being late, and, indeed, not having a black
cloak to lead her [Kate Joyce] with, or follow the corps, I away, and saw,
indeed, a very great press of people follow the corps. I to the King's
playhouse, to fetch my wife, and there saw the best part of "The Mayden
Queene," which, the more I see, the more I love, and think one of the best
plays I ever saw, and is certainly the best acted of any thing ever the
House did, and particularly Becke Marshall, to admiration. Found my wife
and Deb., and saw many fine ladies, and sat by Colonell Reames, who
understands and loves a play as well as I, and I love him for it.  And so
thence home; and, after being at the Office, I home to supper, and to bed,
my eyes being very bad again with overworking with them.

25th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning, and then at noon
to the 'Change with Mr. Hater, and there he and I to a tavern to meet
Captain Minors, which we did, and dined; and there happened to be Mr.
Prichard, a ropemaker of his acquaintance, and whom I know also, and did
once mistake for a fiddler, which sung well, and I asked him for such a
song that I had heard him sing, and after dinner did fall to discourse
about the business of the old contract between the King and the East India
Company for the ships of the King that went thither, and about this did
beat my brains all the afternoon, and then home and made an end of the
accounts to my great content, and so late home tired and my eyes sore, to
supper and to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife to Church, and at noon home to
dinner.  No strangers there; and all the afternoon and evening very late
doing serious business of my Tangier accounts, and examining my East India
accounts, with Mr. Poynter, whom I employed all this day, to transcribe it
fair; and so to supper, W. Hewer with us, and so the girl to comb my head
till I slept, and then to bed.

27th.  It being weather like the beginning of a frost and the ground dry,
I walked as far as the Temple, and there took coach and to White Hall, but
the Committee not being met I to Westminster, and there I do hear of the
letter that is in the pamphlet this day of the King of France, declaring
his design to go on against Flanders, and the grounds of it, which do set
us mightily at rest.  So to White Hall, and there a committee of Tangier,
but little done there, only I did get two or three little jobs done to the
perfecting two or three papers about my Tangier accounts.  Here Mr. Povy
do tell me how he is like to lose his L400 a-year pension of the Duke of
York, which he took in consideration of his place which was taken from
him.  He tells me the Duchesse is a devil against him, and do now come
like Queen Elizabeth, and sits with the Duke of York's Council, and sees
what they do; and she crosses out this man's wages and prices, as she sees
fit, for saving money; but yet, he tells me, she reserves L5000 a-year for
her own spending; and my Lady Peterborough, by and by, tells me that the
Duchesse do lay up, mightily, jewells.  Thence to my Lady Peterborough's,
she desiring to speak with me.  She loves to be taken dressing herself, as
I always find her; and there, after a little talk, to please her, about
her husband's pension, which I do not think he will ever get again, I away
thence home, and all the afternoon mighty busy at the office, and late,
preparing a letter to the Commissioners of Accounts, our first letter to
them, and so home to supper, where Betty Turner was (whose brother Frank
did set out toward the East Indies this day, his father and mother gone
down with him to Gravesend), and there was her little brother Moses, whom
I examined, and he is a pretty good scholar for a child, and so after
supper to talk and laugh, and to bed.

28th.  Up, and to the office, and there with W. Griffin talking about
getting the place to build a coach-house, or to hire one, which I now do
resolve to have, and do now declare it; for it is plainly for my benefit
for saving money.  By and by the office sat, and there we concluded on our
letter to the Commissioners of Accounts and to the several officers of
ours about the work they are to do to answer their late great demands. At
noon home to dinner, and after dinner set my wife and girl down at the
Exchange, and I to White Hall; and, by and by, the Duke of York comes, and
we had a little meeting, Anglesey, W. Pen, and I there, and none else:
and, among other things, did discourse of the want of discipline in the
fleete, which the Duke' of York confessed, and yet said that he, while he
was there, did keep it in a good measure, but that it was now lost when he
was absent; but he will endeavour to have it again.  That he did tell the
Prince and Duke of Albemarle they would lose all order by making such and
such men commanders, which they would, because they were stout men: he
told them that it was a reproach to the nation, as if there were no sober
men among us, that were stout, to be had.  That they did put out some men
for cowards that the Duke of York had put in, but little before, for stout
men; and would now, were he to go to sea again, entertain them in his own
division, to choose: and did put in an idle fellow, Greene, who was hardly
thought fit for a boatswain by him: they did put him from being a
lieutenant to a captain's place of a second-rate ship; as idle a drunken
fellow, he said, as any was in the fleete.  That he will now desire the
King to let him be what he is, that is, Admirall; and he will put in none
but those that he hath great reason to think well of; and particularly
says, that; though he likes Colonell Legg well, yet his son that was, he
knows not how, made a captain after he had been but one voyage at sea, he
should go to sea another apprenticeship, before ever he gives him a
command.  We did tell him of the many defects and disorders among the
captains, and I prayed we might do it in writing to him, which he liked;
and I am glad of an opportunity of doing it.  Thence away, and took up
wife and girl, and home, and to the office, busy late, and so to supper
and to bed.  My wife this day hears from her father and mother: they are
in France, at Paris; he, poor good man!  I think he is, gives her good
counsel still, which I always observed of him, and thankful for my small
charities to him.  I could be willing to do something for them, were I
sure not to bring them over again hither. Coming home, my wife and I went
and saw Kate Joyce, who is still in mighty sorrow, and the more from
something that Dr. Stillingfleete should simply say in his sermon, of her
husband's manner of dying, as killing himself.

29th.  Up betimes, and by coach to Sir W. Coventry, whom I found in his
chamber, and there stayed an hour and talked with him about several things
of the Navy, and our want of money, which they indeed do supply us with a
little, but in no degree likely to enable us to go on with the King's
service.  He is at a stand where to have more, and is in mighty pain for
it, declaring that he believes there never was a kingdom so governed as
this was in the time of the late Chancellor and the Treasurer, nobody
minding or understanding any thing how things went or what the King had in
his Treasury, or was to have, nothing in the world of it minded.  He tells
me that there are still people desirous to overthrow him; he resolving to
stick at nothing nor no person that stands in his way against bringing the
King out of debt, be it to retrench any man's place or profit, and that he
cares not, for rather than be employed under the King, and have the King
continue in this condition of indigence, he desires to be put out from
among them, thinking it no honour to be a minister in such a government.
He tells me he hath no friends in the whole Court but my Lord Keeper and
Sir John Duncomb.  He tells me they have reduced the charges of Ireland
above L70,000 a-year, and thereby cut off good profits from my Lord
Lieutenant; which will make a new enemy, but he cares not. He tells me
that Townsend, of the Wardrobe, is the eeriest knave and bufflehead that
ever he saw in his life, and wonders how my Lord Sandwich come to trust
such a fellow, and that now Reames and--------are put in to be overseers
there, and do great things, and have already saved a great deal of money
in the King's liverys, and buy linnen so cheap, that he will have them buy
the next cloth he hath, for shirts.  But then this is with ready money,
which answers all.  He do not approve of my letter I drew and the office
signed yesterday to the Commissioners of Accounts, saying that it is a
little too submissive, and grants a little too much and too soon our bad
managements, though we lay on want of money, yet that it will be time
enough to plead it when they object it.  The pressure of the body, especially
if the person is stout, interferes with the heart action and causes
dyspnea and distress. Some short, fat patients with cardiac distress caused
by this disease must even stand up to relieve the condition, the erect
position giving still more space for the action of the heart.

Before these patients get up, after a period of bed rest, slight exercises
should be done, perhaps resistant exercises, to see what the effect
is on the heart, and also gradually to cause increase in cardiac strength,
much as any other training exercise. Whatever exercise increases the heart
rate more than twenty-five beats is too strenuous at that particular
period.

The exercise should then be still more carefully graduated. If the systolic
blood pressure is altogether too low for the age of the person or for the
previous history, it should be allowed to become higher, if possible,
before much exercise is begun.

The diet should be nutritious, but, of course, modified by the condition of
the stomach, intestines and kidneys, and whether or not the patient is
obese. The bulk of the meal should be small, and nutriment should
be given at three or four hour intervals during the daytime.

The Karell milk diet or so-called "cure" was first presented in 1865 by
Phillippe Karell, physician to the Czar of Russia. This treatment was more
or less forgotten until lately, when it has been more frequently used in
kidney, liver and heart insufficiency. Its main object in kidney and
heart disease is to remove dropsies. In cardiac dropsy it is advised to
give 200 c.c. of milk for four doses at four hour intervals, beginning
at 8 o'clock in the morning. Whether the milk is taken hot or cold depends
on the desire of the patient. This treatment is supposed to be kept up
for six days, and during this time no other fluid is given and no solid
food allowed. During the next two days an egg is added to this treatment,
given about 10 o'clock in the morning, and a slice of dry toast, or
zwieback, at 6 p. m. Then up to the twelfth day the food is gradually
increased, first to two eggs a day, then more bread, then a little chopped
meat, then rice or some cereal, and by the end of two weeks the patient
is about back to his ordinary diet. During this period the bowels are
moved by enema or by some vegetable cathartic, or even castor oil. If
thirst is excessive, the patient must have a little water, and if
the desire for solid food is excessive, even Karell allowed a little
white bread and at times a little salt.

He sometimes even prolonged the period of treatment to five or six
weeks.

Various modifications of this treatment have been suggested, such as
skimmed milk, and more in quantity, or a cereal is added more or less from
the beginning, and perhaps cream. The diuretic action of this
treatment is not always successful. Also, sometimes the treatment is
even dangerous, the heart and circulation becoming weaker than before such
treatment was begun. Certainly the treatment should be used in cardiac
insufficiency with a great deal of care, although it is often very
valuable treatment. It should be emphasized that most patients with cardiac
dropsy receiving the Karell treatment or a modification of it should
also receive digitalis in full doses, and should have daily free movement
of the bowels. It should be urged, however, that too free catharsis in
cardiac weakness is to be avoided, and the prolonged use of
salines, and sometimes even one administration is contraindicated.
Before cardiac failure has occurred in this disease, once a week a dose of
calomel or a brisk saline purge is advisable, and is good treatment; but
when cardiac weakness has developed, free catharsis is rarely indicated,
although the bowels should be daily moved, and vegetable laxatives are the
best treatment. The upper intestine and the liver and kidneys may be
relieved by a more or less abrupt modification of the diet, or even a
starvation period, and the bowels will generally become cleaned;
but frequent profuse purging with salines or some drastic cathartic puts
the final touch on a cardiac failure.

Recently Goodman [Footnote: Goodman, E. H.: The Use of the "Karell Cure" in
the Treatment of Cardiac, Renal and Hepatic Dropsies, Arch.
Int. Med., June, 1916, p. 809.] presented a report of his studies of the
Karell treatment in cardiac, renal and hepatic dropsies. He finds that
patients with uremia ordinarily should not be subjected to the Karell
cure, such patients needing more fluid.

As long as the patient remains in bed, and as long as his ability to exercise
is at a minimum, gentle massage is advisable.

In these cases of cardiac weakness, with or without dropsy, unless the
diastolic pressure is very high, digitalis is valuable. If there is no
cardiac dropsy, but other symptoms of heart tire are manifest and the blood
pressure is high, the nitrites are valuable. The amount should be
sufficient to lower the blood pressure. Sometimes the diastolic pressure
is high and the systolic low and the pressure pulse small because of heart
insufficiency; such a condition is often improved by digitalis. In
other words, with a failing heart digitalis may not make a blood
pressure higher, and often does not; it may even lower a diastolic
pressure, and the moment that the pressure pulse becomes sufficient, the
patient improves. Under this treatment of digitalis, rest and regulated
diet, a dilated left ventricle with a systolic mitral blow often becomes
contracted and this regurgitation disappears.

The amount of digitalis that is advisable has been frequently discussed.
It should be given in the best preparation obtainable, and should be
pushed gradually (not suddenly) to the point of full physiologic activity.
While it may be given at first three times a day in smaller doses,
it later should be given but twice a day, and still later once a
day, in a dose sufficient to cause the results.

     As soon as the full activity has been reached it may be intermitted
     for a short time; or it may be given a longer time in smaller
     dosage. In renal insufficiency associated with cardiac insufficiency,
     its action is subject to careful watching. If there is
     marked advanced interstitial nephritis, digitalis may not work
     satisfactorily and must be used with caution. If, on the other hand,
     a large part of the kidney trouble is due to the passive congestion
     caused by circulatory weakness, digitalis will be valuable.
     
     In sudden cardiac insufficiency, provided digitalis has not been
given in large doses a short time before, strophanthin may be given
intravenously once or at most twice at twenty-four-hour intervals.

If, in this more or less serious condition of the heart weakness, there is
great sleeplessness, a hypnotic must sometimes be given, and the safest
hypnotic is perhaps 3 / 10 grain of morphin. One of the synthetic hypnotics,
where the dose required is small, may be used a few times and even a
small dose of chloral should not be feared when sleep is a necessity and
large doses of synthetics are inadvisable on account of the condition of
the kidneys.

The value of the Nauheim baths with sodium chlorid and carbonic acid gas
still depends on the individual and the way that they are applied. If the
blood pressure is low and the circulation at the periphery is poor, they
bring the blood to the surface, dilating the peripheral vessels, and
relieving the congestion of the inner organs and abdominal vessels, and
they often will slow the pulse and the patient feels improved. If they
are used warm, a high blood pressure may not be raised; if the baths are
cool, the blood pressure will ordinarily be raised. Provided the patient
is not greatly disturbed or exhausted by getting into and out of
the bath, even a patient with cardiac dilatation may get some benefit
f rom such a bath, as there is no question, in such a condition,
that anything which brings the blood to the muscles and skin relieves
the passive internal congestion.

     Sometimes these baths increase the kidney excretion.

     At other times these, or any tub baths,
     are contraindicated by the exertion and exhaustion
     they cause the patient; and cool Nauheim baths, or any other
     kind of baths, are inadvisable with high blood
     pressure.
     
     
     DISTURBANCES OF THE HEART RATE
     ARRHYTHMIA
     
     While this terns really signifies irregularity and intermittence
     of the heart, it may also be broadly used to
     indicate a pulse which is abnormally slow or one which is
     abnormally fast, a rhythm which is trot correct for
     the age, condition and
     activity of the patient.
     Irregularity in the pulse beat as to volume, force and pressure,
     except such variation in the pulse wave as caused by respiration,
is always abnormal.

                While an intermittent pulse is of course abnormal, it may be caused
in certain persons by a condition which does not in the least
interfere with their health and well-being.

            As to whether a slow or a more or less (but not excessively) rapid
pulse in any one is abnormal depends entirely on whether that speed
is normal or abnormal for that person.

    As a general rule the heart is more rapid in women than in men. It
 is always more rapid in children than in adults, and generally diminishes
                      in frequence after the age of 60, unless there is cardiac weakness
or some cardiac muscle degeneration.

                              The average frequence of the pulse in an adult who is at rest is
72 beats per minute, but a frequency of 80 is not abnormal, and a
frequency of 65 in men is common; 60 is infrequent in men but normal,
while up to 90 is not abnormal, especially in women, at the time
the pulse is being counted.'

                      It should always be considered that in the majority of patients the
pulse is slightly increased while the physician is noting its
rapidity.

                        Anything over 90 should always be considered rapid, unless the
patient is very nervous and this rapidity is considered accidental.

                        Anything below 60 is abnormally slow.

                          In children under 10 or
                                12 years
                                of age, anything below 80 is unusual, and up to 100 is perfectly
normal, at least at such time as the pulse is counted and the patient
is awake.

Referring to the first chapter of this book, it will be noted that many
physiologic factors must enter into the production of the normal
regularity of the pulse. The stimulus must regularly begin in the auricle,
must be perfectly transmitted through the bundle of His to the ventricles,
the ventricles must normally contract with the normal and regular force,
the valves must close normally and at the proper time, the blood pressure
in the aorta must be normally constant to insure the perfect transmission
of the blood to the peripheral arteries and to insure the normal circulation
through the coronary arteries, and the arterioles must be normally
elastic. The nervous inhibitory control through the vagi must also be
normal, and there must be no abnormal reflexes of any part of the body
to interfere with the normal vagus control of the heart.

While the heart beats from an inherent musculonervous mechanism, nervous
interference easily upsets its normal regularity. It may be seriously
slowed by nervous shock, fear or sudden peripheral contractions,
spasm of muscles, or convulsive contractions, or it may be stimulated to
greater rapidity by nervous excitement. It may be slowed or made rapid
by reflex irritations, and it may be seriously interfered with by
cerebral lesions; pressure on the vagus centers in the medulla oblongata
will make it very slow. Various kinds of poisons circulating in the blood,
both depressants and excitants, may affect the rapidity or the regularity
of the heart.

Therefore, if it is decided that a given heart is abnormally slow or
abnormally rapid or is decidedly irregular or intermittent, the various
causes for such interference with its normal activity must be investigated
and admitted or excluded as causative factors.

Many investigations of the rhythm of children's pulses have been made, and
some of the later investigations seem to show that not more than 40
percent are regular, the remaining 60 percent varying from mild irregularity
to extreme irregularity.

Scientifically to determine the exact character of a pulse which is
discovered by the finger on the radial artery and the stethoscope on the
heart to be irregular, tracings of one or more arteries, veins and the
heart should be taken. Two synchronous tracings are more accurate than
one, and three of more value than two in interpreting the exact activity
and regularity of the heart.

ETIOLOGY
The cause of an irregularly acting heart in an adult may be organic, as
in the various forms of myocarditis, in broken compensation of valvular
disease, Stokes-Adams disease, coronary disease, auricular fibrillation,
auricular flutter, cerebral disease, and toxemias from various kinds
of serious organic disease. The cause may be more or less functional and
removable, such as tea, coffee, alcohol, tobacco, gastric indigestion
and intestinal toxemia; or it may be due to functional disturbances
of the heart, such as that due to what has been termed extrasystole,
or to irregular ventricular contractions.

A frequent cause of irregular heart action in women, more especially of
increased rapidity, is hyperthyroidism.

There may be an arrhythmia due to some nervous stimulation, probably
through the pneumogastric, so that the pulse varies abnormally during
respiration, being accelerated during inspiration and retarded during
expiration more than is normally found in adults.
This condition is frequent in children, and is noticed in neurotic adults
and sometimes during convalescence from a serious illness.
Nervous and physical rest, with plenty of sleep and fresh, clean air so that
the respiratory center is normally stiniulated, will generally improve
this condition in an adult.

Extrasystoles causing arrhythmia give a more or less regularly
intermittent pulse, while the examination of the heart discloses an imperfect
beat or the extrasystole which is not transmitted or acted on by the
ventricles, and hence the intermittency in the peripheral arteries. This
condition may be due to some toxemia, nervous irritability, or some
irritation in the heart muscle.

Good general elimination by catharsis, warm baths to increase the peripheral
circulation, a low diet for a few days, abstinence from any toxin which
could cause this cardiac irritation, extra physical and mental rest,
sometimes nervous sedatives such as bromids, and perhaps a lowering
of the blood pressure by nitroglycerin, if such is indicated, or an
increase of the cardiac tone by digitalis if that is indicated, will
generally remove the cardiac irritation and prevent the extrasystoles,
and the heart will again become regular.
It should be carefully decided whether there is beginning heart block
or beginning Stokes-Adams disease, in which case digitalis should not
be used. This disease is not frequent, while extrasystoles of a functional
character are very frequent. Sometimes this functional disease persists
without any apparent injury to the individual as long as the ventricle
does not take note of these extra auricular systoles and does not also
become extra rapid. If the ventricle does contract with this increased
rapidity, it soon wears itself out, and the condition becomes serious.

In this kind of arrhythmia, if there are no contraindications to digitalis,
it is the logical drug to use from its physiologic activities, slowing the
heart by its action on the vagi and causing a steadier contraction of the
heart; clinically this treatment is generally successful. If digitalis
should, however, cause the heart to become more irritable, it is acting
for harm, and should be stopped.

TREATMENT
One has but to refer to the enumerated causes of irregular heart action to
determine the treatment. In that caused by extrasystole, the treatment
has just been suggested. In irregular heart caused by serious cardiac
or other lesions the treatment has already been described, or is that of
the disease that has a badly acting heart as a complication. If the
irregularity is caused by toxins, the treatment is to stop the ingestion
of the toxin and to promote the elimination of what is already in the
system; how much of the irregularity was due to the toxin and how much
is inherent disturbance in the heart can then be determined. If the cause
of a toxemia developed in the system, perhaps most frequently from intestinal
putrefaction, increased elimination and a regulation of the diet will
cure the condition.

The valvular lesions most apt to cause irregular action of the heart
are mitral insufficiency or mitral stenosis. The lesion which is most apt
to cause auricular fibrillation and more or less permanently irregular heart
is perhaps mitral stenosis. Another frequent cause of more or less permanent
irregularity is the excessive use of alcohol.

While an irregular pulse and an irregular heart are always of more or less
serious import, still, as the extrasystoles of the auricle are better
understood and more frequently recognized, and the habits and life of the
patients (most frequently men) are regulated and revised, frequently
a pulse and heart which would be rejected by any medical examiner for an
insurance company becomes, in a few weeks or a few months, a perfectly
acting heart, and remains so sometimes for years. It also is not quite
determinaible whether a heart that is so misbehaving has a recurrence of
such misbehavior more readily than a heart which has never been so
affected. However this may be, the cause having been determined or
presumed by the physician, it should be so impressed on the patient that
he does not again repeat the insult to his heart.

AURICULAR FIBRILLATION: AURICULAR FLUTTER
Auricular fibrillation is at times apparently a clinical entity
much as is angina pectoris, but it is often a symptom of some other
condition.

     At times auricular fibrillation is only a passing symptom, and is
     rapidly cured by treatment. A real auricular fibrillation shows
     a semiparalysis of the auricles, and during this condition
     normal systolic contractions do not occur, although there are
     small rapid twitchings of different muscle fibers in the auricles.
     Although it was once thought that the auricle was paralyzed in this
     condition, it probably simply loses its coordinate activity.
     Auricular fibrillation and auricular flutter are probably simply
     different degrees of the same condition, and any contractions of
     the auricles over 200 per minute may be termed an auricular flutter,
     and below that the term auricular fibrillation may be used.
     When ventricular fibrillation occurs, the condition is serious
     and the prognosis bad. Both auricular fibrillation and auricular
     flutter may be temporary or permanent, and the exact number
     of fibrillations or tremblings of the auricular muscle can be
     noted only by electrical instruments.
     

Tallman, [Footnote: Tallman: Northwest Med., May, 1916] after examination
of fifty-eight cases, classifies different types of auricular flutter: (1)
such a condition in an apparently normal heart; (2) the condition occurring
during chronic heart disease, and (3) an auricular flutter with partial
or complete heart block.

The irregular pulse in auricular fibrillation is more or less
distinctive, being generally rapid, from 110 upward. Occasionally
the pulse rate may be much slower, if the heart is under the influence
of digitalis. The irregularity of the pulse in this condition is
excessive; the rate, strength and apparent intermittency during a
half minute may not at all represent the condition in the next half
minute, or in the next several minutes.
If digitalis does not cure the irregularity, the condition has been
termed the "absolutely irregular heart." Other terms applied to the
condition have been "ventricular rhythm," "nodal rhythm" and "rhythm
of auricular paralysis." The condition of the pulse has been Latinized
as pulsus irregularis perpetuus.
While the condition is best diagnosed by tracings taken simultaneously
of the apex beat, jugular and radial, still the jugular tracing is
almost conclusive in the absence of the auricular systolic wave.
The radial tracing is exceedingly suggestive, and if there is also
a careful auscultation of the heart, a presumptive diagnosis may
be made.

OCCURRENCE
This condition of auricular fibrillation occurs occasionally in
valvular disease, and perhaps most frequently in mitral stenosis;
but it can occur without valvular lesions, and with any valvular
lesion. If it occurs in younger patients, valvular disease is apt
to be a cause; if in older patients, sclerosis or myocardial
degeneration is generally present.
It may also follow infections such as diphtheria, or some infection
which has caused a myocarditis. Rarely this fibrillation may be
caused by some of the drugs used to stimulate the heart.
It is astonishing how few symptoms may be present with auricular
fibrillation and an absolutely irregular heart action. The patient
may be able to perform all of his duties, however strenuous, until
coincident, concomitant or causative ventricular weakening and
dilatation of the ventricles or broken compensation occurs, and
then the symptoms are those due to the cardiac failure.Godolphin, as the worthiest man, and such a friend to him as he may be
trusted in any thing relating to him in the world; as one whom, he says,
he hath infallible assurances that he will remaine his friend which is
very high, but indeed they say the gentleman is a fine man.  Thence, after
eating a lobster for my dinner, having eat nothing to-day, we broke up,
here coming to us Mr. Townsend of the Wardrobe, who complains of the
Commissioners of the Treasury as very severe against my Lord Sandwich, but
not so much as they complain of him for a fool and a knave, and so I let
him alone, and home, carrying Mr. Moore as far as Fenchurch Street, and I
home, and there being vexed in my mind about my prize businesses I to my
chamber, where my wife and I had much talk of W. Hewer, she telling me
that he is mightily concerned for my not being pleased with him, and is
herself mightily concerned, but I have much reason to blame him for his
little assistance he gives me in my business, not being able to copy out a
letter with sense or true spelling that makes me mad, and indeed he is in
that regard of as little use to me as the boy, which troubles me, and I
would have him know it,--and she will let him know it.  By and by to
supper, and so to bed, and slept but ill all night, my mind running like a
fool on my prize business, which according to my reason ought not to
trouble me at all.

6th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning,, and among other
things Sir H. Cholmly comes to me about a little business, and there tells
me how the Parliament, which is to meet again to-day, are likely to fall
heavy on the business of the Duke of Buckingham's pardon; and I shall be
glad of it: and that the King hath put out of the Court the two Hides, my
Lord Chancellor's two sons, and also the Bishops of Rochester and
Winchester, the latter of whom should have preached before him yesterday,
being Ash Wednesday, and had his sermon ready, but was put by; which is
great news: He gone, we sat at the office all the morning, and at noon
home to dinner, and my wife being gone before, I to the Duke of York's
playhouse; where a new play of Etherige's, called "She Would if she
Could;" and though I was there by two o'clock, there was 1000 people put
back that could not have room in the pit: and I at last, because my wife
was there, made shift to get into the 18d. box, and there saw; but, Lord!
how full was the house, and how silly the play, there being nothing in the
world good in it, and few people pleased in it.  The King was there; but I
sat mightily behind, and could see but little, and hear not all.  The play
being done, I into the pit to look (for) my wife, and it being dark and
raining, I to look my wife out, but could not find her; and so staid going
between the two doors and through the pit an hour and half, I think, after
the play was done; the people staying there till the rain was over, and to
talk with one another.  And, among the rest, here was the Duke of
Buckingham to-day openly sat in the pit; and there I found him with my
Lord Buckhurst, and Sidly, and Etherige, the poet; the last of whom I did
hear mightily find fault with the actors, that they were out of humour,
and had not their parts perfect, and that Harris did do nothing, nor could
so much as sing a ketch in it; and so was mightily concerned while all the
rest did, through the whole pit, blame the play as a silly, dull thing,
though there was something very roguish and witty; but the design of the
play, and end, mighty insipid.  At last I did find my wife staying for me
in the entry; and with her was Betty Turner, Mercer, and Deb.  So I got a
coach, and a humour took us, and I carried them to Hercules Pillars, and
there did give them a kind of a supper of about 7s., and very merry, and
home round the town, not through the ruines; and it was pretty how the
coachman by mistake drives us into the ruines from London-wall into
Coleman Street: and would persuade me that I lived there.  And the truth
is, I did think that he and the linkman had contrived some roguery; but it
proved only a mistake of the coachman; but it was a cunning place to have
done us a mischief in, as any I know, to drive us out of the road into the
ruines, and there stop, while nobody could be called to help us.  But we
come safe home, and there, the girls being gone home, I to the office,
where a while busy, my head not being wholly free of my trouble about my
prize business, I home to bed.  This evening coming home I did put my hand
under the coats of Mercer and did touch her thigh, but then she did put by
my hand and no hurt done, but talked and sang and was merry.

7th.  Up, and to the office, to the getting of my books in order, to carry
to the Commissioners of Accounts this morning.  This being done, I away
first to Westminster Hall, and there met my cozen, Roger Pepys, by his
desire, the first time I have seen him since his coming to town, the
Parliament meeting yesterday and adjourned to Monday next; and here he
tells me that Mr. Jackson, my sister's servant, is come to town, and hath
this day suffered a recovery on his estate, in order to the making her a
settlement.  The young man is gone out of the Hall, so I could not now see
him, but here I walked a good while with my cozen, and among other things
do hear that there is a great triall between my Lord Gerard and Carr
to-day, who is indicted for his life at the King's Bench, for running from
his colours; but all do say that my Lord Gerard, though he designs the
ruining of this man, will not get any thing by it.  Thence to the
Commissioners of Accounts, and there presented my books, and was made to
sit down, and used with much respect, otherwise than the other day, when I
come to them as a criminal about the business of the prizes.  I sat here
with them a great while, while my books were inventoried.  And here do
hear from them by discourse that they are like to undo the Treasurer's
instruments of the Navy by making it a rule that they shall repay all
money paid to wrong parties, which is a thing not to be supported by these
poor creatures the Treasurer's instruments, as it is also hard for seamen
to be ruined by their paying money to whom they please.  I know not what
will be the issue of it.  I find these gentlemen to sit all day, and only
eat a bit of bread at noon, and a glass of wine; and are resolved to go
through their business with great severity and method.  Thence I, about
two o'clock, to Westminster Hall, by appointment, and there met my cozen
Roger again, and Mr. Jackson, who is a plain young man, handsome enough
for Pall, one of no education nor discourse, but of few words, and one
altogether that, I think, will please me well enough.  My cozen had got me
to give the odd sixth L100 presently, which I intended to keep to the
birth of the first child: and let it go--I shall be eased of the care, and
so, after little talk, we parted, resolving to dine together at my house
tomorrow.  So there parted, my mind pretty well satisfied with this plain
fellow for my sister, though I shall, I see, have no pleasure nor content
in him, as if he had been a man of reading and parts, like Cumberland, and
to the Swan, and there sent for a bit of meat and eat and drank, and so to
White Hall to the Duke of York's chamber, where I find him and my fellows
at their usual meeting, discoursing about securing the Medway this year,
which is to shut the door after the horse is stole.  However, it is good.
Having done here, my Lord Brouncker, and W. Pen, and I, and with us Sir
Arnold Breames, to the King's playhouse, and there saw a piece of "Love in
a Maze," a dull, silly play, I think; and after the play, home with W. Pen
and his son Lowther, whom we met there, and then home and sat most of the
evening with my wife and Mr. Pelting, talking, my head being full of
business of one kind or other, and most such as do not please me, and so
to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the office, where sat all day, and at noon home, and
there find cozen Roger and Jackson by appointment come to dine with me,
and Creed, and very merry, only Jackson hath few words, and I like him
never the worse for it.  The great talk is of Carr's coming off in all his
trials, to the disgrace of my Lord Gerard, to that degree, and the ripping
up of so many notorious rogueries and cheats of my Lord's, that my Lord,
it is thought, will be ruined; and, above all things, do skew the madness
of the House of Commons, who rejected the petition of this poor man by a
combination of a few in the House; and, much more, the base proceedings
(just the epitome of all our publick managements in this age), of the
House of Lords, that ordered him to stand in the pillory for those very
things, without hearing and examining what he hath now, by the seeking of
my Lord Gerard himself, cleared himself of, in open Court, to the gaining
himself the pity of all the world, and shame for ever to my Lord Gerard.
We had a great deal of good discourse at table, and after dinner we four
men took coach, and they set me down at the Old Exchange, and they home,
having discoursed nothing today with cozen or Jackson about our business.
I to Captain Cocke's, and there discoursed over our business of prizes,
and I think I shall go near to state the matter so as to secure myself
without wrong to him, doing nor saying anything but the very truth.
Thence away to the Strand, to my bookseller's, and there staid an hour,
and bought the idle, rogueish book, "L'escholle des filles;" which I have
bought in plain binding, avoiding the buying of it better bound, because I
resolve, as soon as I have read it, to burn it, that it may not stand in
the list of books, nor among them, to disgrace them if it should be found.
Thence home, and busy late at the office, and then home to supper and to
bed.  My wife well pleased with my sister's match, and designing how to be
merry at their marriage.  And I am well at ease in my mind to think that
that care will be over.  This night calling at the Temple, at the
Auditor's, his man told me that he heard that my account must be brought
to the view of the Commissioners of Tangier before it can be passed, which
though I know no hurt in it, yet it troubled me lest there should be any
or any designed by them who put this into the head of the Auditor, I
suppose Auditor Beale, or Creed, because they saw me carrying my account
another way than by them.

9th (Lord's day).  Up, and at my chamber all the morning and the office
doing business, and also reading a little of "L'escholle des filles,"
which is a mighty lewd book, but yet not amiss for a sober man once to
read over to inform himself in the villainy of the world.  At noon home to
dinner, where by appointment Mr. Pelting come and with him three friends,
Wallington, that sings the good base, and one Rogers, and a gentleman, a
young man, his name Tempest, who sings very well indeed, and understands
anything in the world at first sight.  After dinner we into our
dining-room, and there to singing all the afternoon.  (By the way, I must
remember that Pegg Pen was brought to bed yesterday of a girl; and, among
other things, if I have not already set it down, that hardly ever was
remembered such a season for the smallpox as these last two months have
been, people being seen all up and down the streets, newly come out after
the smallpox.) But though they sang fine things, yet I must confess that I
did take no pleasure in it, or very little, because I understood not the
words, and with the rests that the words are set, there is no sense nor
understanding in them though they be English, which makes me weary of
singing in that manner, it being but a worse sort of instrumental musick.
We sang until almost night, and drank mighty good store of wine, and then
they parted, and I to my chamber, where I did read through "L'escholle des
filles," a lewd book, but what do no wrong once to read for information
sake .  .  .  .  And after I had done it I burned it, that it might not be
among my books to my shame, and so at night to supper and to bed.

10th.  Up, and by coach to Westminster, and there made a visit to Mr.
Godolphin, at his chamber; and I do find him a very pretty and able
person, a man of very fine parts, and of infinite zeal to my Lord
Sandwich; and one that says he is, he believes, as wise and able a person
as any prince in the world hath.  He tells me that he meets with
unmannerly usage by Sir Robert Southwell, in Portugall, who would sign
with him in his negociations there, being a forward young man: but that my
Lord mastered him in that point, it being ruled for my Lord here, at a
hearing of a Committee of the Council.  He says that if my Lord can
compass a peace between Spain and Portugall, and hath the doing of it and
the honour himself, it will be a thing of more honour than ever any man
had, and of as much advantage.  Thence to Westminster Hall, where the Hall
mighty full: and, among other things, the House begins to sit to-day, and
the King come.  But, before the King's coming, the House of Commons met;
and upon information given them of a Bill intended to be brought in, as
common report said, for Comprehension, they did mightily and generally
inveigh against it, and did vote that the King should be desired by the
House (and the message delivered by the Privy-counsellers of the House)
that the laws against breakers of the Act of Uniformity should be put in
execution: and it was moved in the House that, if any people had a mind to
bring any new laws into the House, about religion, they might come, as a
proposer of new laws did in Athens, with ropes about their necks.  By and
by the King comes to the Lords' House, and there tells them of his league
with Holland, and the necessity of a fleete, and his debts; and,
therefore, want of money; and his desire that they would think of some way
to bring in all his Protestant subjects to a right understanding and peace
one with another; meaning the Bill of Comprehension.  The Commons coming
to their House, it was moved that the vote passed this morning might be
suspended, because of the King's speech, till the House was full and
called over, two days hence: but it was denied, so furious they are
against this Bill: and thereby a great blow either given to the King or
Presbyters, or, which is the rather of the two, to the House itself, by
denying a thing desired by the King, and so much desired by much the
greater part of the nation.  Whatever the consequence be, if the King be a
man of any stomach and heat, all do believe that he will resent this vote.
Thence with Creed home to my house to dinner, where I met with Mr.
Jackson, and find my wife angry with Deb., which vexes me.  After dinner
by coach away to Westminster; taking up a friend of Mr. Jackson's, a young
lawyer, and parting with Creed at White Hall.  They and I to Westminster
Hall, and there met Roger Pepys, and with him to his chamber, and there
read over and agreed upon the Deed of Settlement to our minds: my sister
to have L600 presently, and she to be joyntured in L60 per annum; wherein
I am very well satisfied.  Thence I to the Temple to Charles Porter's
lodgings, where Captain Cocke met me, and after long waiting, on
Pemberton,

     [Francis Pemberton, afterwards knighted, and made Lord Chief Justice
     of the King's Bench in 1679.  His career was a most singular one, he
     having been twice removed from the Bench, and twice imprisoned by
     the House of Commons.  He twice returned to the bar, and after his
     second return he practised with great success as a serjeant for the
     next fourteen years till his death, June 10th, 1697.  Evelyn says,
     "He was held to be the most learned of the judges and an honest man"
     ("Diary," October 4th, 1683).]

an able lawyer, about the business of our prizes, and left the matter with
him to think of against to-morrow, this being a matter that do much
trouble my mind, though there be no fault in it that I need fear the
owning that I know of.  Thence with Cocke home to his house and there left
him, and I home, and there got my wife to read a book I bought to-day, and
come out to-day licensed by Joseph Williamson for Lord Arlington, shewing
the state of England's affairs relating to France at this time, and the
whole body of the book very good and solid, after a very foolish
introduction as ever I read, and do give a very good account of the
advantage of our league with Holland at this time.  So, vexed in my mind
with the variety of cares I have upon me, and so to bed.

11th.  At the office all the morning, where comes a damned summons to
attend the Committee of Miscarriages to-day, which makes me mad, that I
should by my place become the hackney of this Office, in perpetual trouble
and vexation, that need it least.  At noon home to dinner, where little
pleasure, my head being split almost with the variety of troubles upon me
at this time, and cares, and after dinner by coach to Westminster Hall,
and sent my wife and Deb. to see "Mustapha" acted.  Here I brought a book
to the Committee, and do find them; and particularly Sir Thomas Clarges,
mighty hot in the business of tickets, which makes me mad to see them bite
at the stone, and not at the hand that flings it, and here my Lord
Brouncker unnecessarily orders it that he is called in to give opportunity
to present his report of the state of the business of paying by ticket,
which I do not think will do him any right, though he was made believe
that it did operate mightily, and that Sir Fresh. Hollis did make a mighty
harangue and to much purpose in his defence, but I believe no such effects
of it, for going in afterward I did hear them speak with prejudice of it,
and that his pleading of the Admiral's warrant for it now was only an
evasion, if not an aspersion upon the Admirall, and therefore they would
not admit of this his report, but go on with their report as they had
resolved before.  The orders they sent for this day was the first order
that I have yet met with about this business, and was of my own single
hand warranting, but I do think it will do me no harm, and therefore do
not much trouble myself with it, more than to see how much trouble I am
brought to who have best deported myself in all the King's business.
Thence with Lord Brouncker, and set him down at Bow Streete, and so to the
Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw the last act for nothing, where I
never saw such good acting of any creature as Smith's part of Zanger; and
I do also, though it was excellently acted by---------, do yet want
Betterton mightily.  How much repair can take place in a heart muscle
when fatty degeneration has started we do not know. Such treatment
will give the heart the only chance it has to recuperate, but the prognosis
is bad.

FATTY HEART
The cause of deposits of fat around the heart or in between its chambers is
the same as the cause of general obesity. These patients are likely to be
obese, or at least to have large abdomens with large deposits of fat
around the abdomen. This fat in itself will interfere somewhat with
abdominal respiration. This tends to cause dyspnea, and the heart tends
to be disturbed from these causes, if much fat is not really in the
pericardium. The symptoms are those of imperfect heart action; the patient
is dyspneic on exertion or in leaning over, the heart acts rapidly on such
exertion, the patient puffs, perspires easily, and becomes leg weary,
sedentary in his habits, and more or less incapacitated for work. He may
not be a large eater; if he is, and his eating habit is corrected, the
prognosis is better than if he is putting on weight in spite of eating
sparingly.

The general treatment is that for obesity, and if the heart muscle is intact,
various depletion methods may be inaugurated. More and more exercise,
sweatings from Turkish baths, electric-light baths, body baking, vigorous
massage and more or less purging are all valuable. Anything which reduces
the general weight will help the heart. The prognosis is often good.

ENDOCARDITIS

It should be understood that especially in acute conditions a
positive separation of endocarditis from myocarditis is incorrect.

Acute endocarditis can probably not occur without some inyocarditis,
and myocarditis probably does not occur without some endocardial disturbance
and perhaps some pericardial irritation. This is especially true in
endocarditis which occurs during any acute infection, even in rheumatism.
The greater the amount of pericarditis, the more serious is the acute
condition. The greater the amount of myocarditis, the more doubtful is the
heart strength in the near future. The greater the amount of endocarditis,
the greater the doubt of freedom from future permanent valvular
lesions.

Endocarditis may be divided into: acute mild (simple) endocarditis, acute
malignant (ulcerative, infective) endocarditis, chronic endocarditis and
valvular disease.

ACUTE MILD ENDOCARDITIS
This inflammation of the endocardium is generally confined to the region
of the valves, and the valves most frequently so inflamed are the
mitral and aortic. There may be a slight inflammation or actual ulceration
and loss of tissue. Vegetations more or less constantly occur on the inflamed
surfaces, with more or less danger of particles becoming loosened and
moving free in the blood stream, causing embolic obstruction in different
parts of the body. There is also more or less probability of serious
adhesions or contractions occurring from the healing of the ulcerated
surfaces. The future health and welfare of the valves depend on the fact
that the inflammation has healed without contractions or adhesions.

It is often difficult to decide when acute endocarditis has developed;
but with the knowledge that the endocardium often becomes inflamed
during almost any of the acute infections, the physician should
repeatedly examine the heart for murmurs, for muffled closure of
the valves, or for other evidences of endocarditis or myocarditis
during the acute infective process.
It has been shown positively that acute endocarditis is due to
micro-organisms, generally streptococci, staphylococci or pneumococci,
and, more frequently than once believed, gonococci. The most frequent
causes are acute rheumatic fever, diphtheria, pneumonia, cerebrospinal
meningitis, scarlet fever, erysipelas, influenza, chorea, gonorrhea,
sepsis and typhoid fever. It may also follow a follicular tonsillitis
or some infection of the mouth or throat with or without arthritis.
Tuberculosis may also occasionally cause an endocarditis. Organisms
may be found in a terminal simple endocarditis due to a chronic
disease, as tuberculosis or cancer; such inflammations may have
been caused by circulating toxins.
It will be noticed by the foregoing classification that the terms
"mild" and "malignant" endocarditis are used.So away, and took up my wife, and setting Jackson down at Fetter
Lane end, I to the old Exchange to look Mr. Houblon, but, not finding him,
did go home, and there late writing a letter to my Lord Sandwich, and to
give passage to a letter of great moment from Mr. Godolphin to him, which
I did get speedy passage for by the help of Mr. Houblon, who come late to
me, and there directed the letter to Lisbon under cover of his, and here
we talked of the times, which look very sad and distracted, and made good
mirth at this day's passage in the House, and so parted; and going to the
gate with him, I found his lady and another fine lady sitting an hour
together, late at night, in their coach, while he was with me, which is so
like my wife, that I was mighty taken with it, though troubled for it.  So
home to supper and to bed.  This day Captain Cocke was with the
Commissioners of Accounts to ask more time for his bringing in his answer
about the prize goods, and they would not give him 14 days as he asks, but
would give only two days, which was very hard, I think, and did trouble me
for fear of their severity, though I have prepared my matter so as to defy
it.

13th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to
dinner, and thence with my wife and Deb. to White Hall, setting, them at
her tailor's, and I to the Commissioners of the Treasury, where myself
alone did argue the business of the East India Company against their whole
Company on behalf of the King before the Lords Commissioners, and to very
good effect, I think, and with reputation.  That business being over, the
Lords and I had other things to talk about, and among the rest, about our
making more assignments on the Exchequer since they bid us hold, whereat
they were extraordinary angry with us, which troubled me a little, though
I am not concerned in it at all.  Waiting here some time without, I did
meet with several people, among others Mr. Brisband, who tells me in
discourse that Tom Killigrew hath a fee out of the Wardrobe for cap and
bells,

     [The Lord Chamberlain's Records contain a copy of a warrant dated
     July 12th, 1661, "to deliver to Mr. Killegrew thirty yards of
     velvett, three dozen of fringe, and sixteene yards of Damaske for
     the year 1661."  The heading of this entry is "Livery for ye jester"
     (Lowe's "Betterton," p. 70).]

under the title of the King's Foole or jester; and may with privilege
revile or jeere any body, the greatest person, without offence, by the
privilege of his place.  Thence took up my wife, and home, and there busy
late at the office writing letters, and so home to supper and to bed. The
House was called over to-day.  This morning Sir G. Carteret come to the
Office to see and talk with me: and he assures me that to this day the
King is the most kind man to my Lord Sandwich in the whole world; that he
himself do not now mind any publick business, but suffers things to go on
at Court as they will, he seeing all likely to come to ruin: that this
morning the Duke of York sent to him to come to make up one of a Committee
of the Council for Navy Affairs; where, when he come, he told the Duke of
York that he was none of them: which shews how things are now-a-days
ordered, that there should be a Committee for the Navy; and the Lord
Admiral not know the persons of it!  And that Sir G. Carteret and my Lord
Anglesey should be left out of it, and men wholly improper put into it.  I
do hear of all hands that there is a great difference at this day between
my Lord Arlington and Sir W. Coventry, which I am sorry for.

14th (Valentine's day).  Up, being called up by Mercer, who come to be my
Valentine, and so I rose and my wife, and were merry a little, I staying
to talk, and did give her a guinny in gold for her Valentine's gift. There
comes also my cozen Roger Pepys betimes, and comes to my wife, for her to
be his Valentine, whose Valentine I was also, by agreement to be so to her
every year; and this year I find it is likely to cost L4 or L5 in a ring
for her, which she desires.  The attack may be coincident with acute
abdominal pain, almost simulating a gastric crisis of locomotor ataxia.
There may also be coincident pains down the legs. It has been shown, as
mentioned in another part of this book, that disturbances in different parts
of the aorta may cause pain and the pain be referred to different regions,
depending on the part affected.

Instances occasionally occur in which a patient had an anginal attack,
as denoted by facial anxiety, paleness, holding of the breath, and a slow,
weak pulse, without real pain. This has been called angina sine dolore.
The patient has an appearanece of anxious expectation, as though he
feared something terrible was about to happen.

The position of the patient with true angina pectoris is characteristic.
He stops still wherever he is, stands perfectly erect or bends his
body backward, raises his chin, supports himself with one hand, leans
against anything that is near him, and places his other hand over his
heart, although he exercises very little pressure with this hand. The
position assumed is that which will give the left chest the greatest
unhampered expansion, as though he would relieve all pressure on the
heart.

Besides the feeling of constriction, even to some spasm, perhaps, of the
intercostal muscles, respiration is slowed or very shallow, because of
the reflex desire of the patient not to add to the pain by breathing.
The face is pale, the eyes show fear, and the whole expression is almost
typical of cardiac anxiety. The patient feels that he is about to die.
The pulse is generally slowed, may be irregular, and may not be felt at the
wrist. The blood pressure has been found at times to be increased.
It could of course be taken only in those cases in which there were more
or less continued anginal pains; the true typical acute angina pectoris
attack is over, or the patient is dead, before any blood pressure
determination could be made. When there is more or less constant ache or
frequent slight attacks of pain, the blood pressure may be raised by the
causative disease, arteriosclerosis. During the acute attack with
inefficient cardiac action and a diminished force and frequency of the beat,
the peripheral blood pressure can only be lowered.

The duration of an acute attack, that is, the acute pain, is generally but
a few seconds, sometimes a few minutes, and rarely has lasted for several
hours. In the latter cases some obstruction to an artery has been
found at necropsy, but not sufficient to stop the circulation at a
vital point. Repeated slight attacks, more or less severe, may occur
frequently throughout one or more days, or even perhaps a series
of days, caused by the least exertion, even that of turning in
bed.
While most cases of sudden death with cardiac pain are due to a
local disease in or around the heart, it is quite probable that
some disturbance in the medulla oblongata may cause acute inhibitory
stoppage of the heart through the pneumogastric (vagi) nerves.Pen dumb, and made him open his mouth no more; and I saw the
King and Duke of York wink at one another at it.  This done, we into the
gallery; and there I walked with several people, and among others my Lord
Brouncker, who I do find under much trouble still about the business of
the tickets, his very case being brought in; as is said, this day in the
Report of the Miscarriages. And he seems to lay much of it on me, which I
did clear and satisfy him in; and would be glad with all my heart to serve
him in, and have done it more than he hath done for himself, he not
deserving the least blame, but commendations, for this.  I met with my
cozen Roger Pepys and Creed; and from them understand that the Report was
read to-day of the Miscarriages, wherein my Lord Sandwich is [named] about
the business I mentioned this morning; but I will be at rest, for it can
do him no hurt.  Our business of tickets is soundly up, and many others:
so they went over them again, and spent all the morning on the first,
which is the dividing of the fleete; wherein hot work was, and that among
great men, Privy-Councillors, and, they say, Sir W. Coventry; but I do not
much fear it, but do hope that it will shew a little, of the Duke of
Albemarle and the Prince to have been advisers in it: but whereas they
ordered that the King's Speech should be considered today, they took no
notice of it at all, but are really come to despise the King in all
possible ways of chewing it.  And it was the other day a strange saying,
as I am told by my cozen Roger Pepys, in the House, when it was moved that
the King's speech should be considered, that though the first part of the
Speech, meaning the league that is there talked of, be the only good
publick thing that hath been done since the King come into England, yet it
might bear with being put off to consider, till Friday next, which was
this day.  Secretary Morrice did this day in the House, when they talked
of intelligence, say that he was allowed but L70 a-year for
intelligence,--[Secret service money]--whereas, in Cromwell's time, he
[Cromwell] did allow L70,000 a-year for it; and was confirmed therein by
Colonel Birch, who said that thereby Cromwell carried the secrets of all
the princes of Europe at his girdle.  The House is in a most broken
condition; nobody adhering to any thing, but reviling and finding fault:
and now quite mad at the Undertakers, as they are commonly called,
Littleton, Lord Vaughan, Sir R. Howard, and others that are brought over
to the Court, and did undertake to get the King money; but they despise,
and would not hear them in the House; and the Court do do as much, seeing
that they cannot be useful to them, as was expected.  In short, it is
plain that the King will never be able to do any thing with this
Parliament; and that the only likely way to do better, for it cannot do
worse, is to break this and call another Parliament; and some do think
that it is intended.  I was told to-night that my Lady Castlemayne is so
great a gamester as to have won L5000 in one night, and lost L25,000 in
another night, at play, and hath played L1000 and L1500 at a cast.  Thence
to the Temple, where at Porter's chamber I met Captain Cocke, but lost our
labour, our Counsellor not being within, Pemberton, and therefore home and
late at my office, and so home to supper and to bed.

15th.  Up betimes, and with Captain Cocke my coach to the Temple to his
Counsel again about the prize goods in order to the drawing up of his
answer to them, where little done but a confirmation that our best
interest is for him to tell the whole truth, and so parted, and I home to
the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and after
dinner all the afternoon and evening till midnight almost, and till I had
tired my own backe, and my wife's, and Deb.'s, in titleing of my books for
the present year, and in setting them in order, which is now done to my
very good satisfaction, though not altogether so completely as I think
they were the last year, when my mind was more at leisure to mind it. So
about midnight to bed, where my wife taking some physic overnight it
wrought with her, and those coming upon her with great gripes, she was in
mighty pain all night long, yet, God forgive me!  I did find that I was
most desirous to take my rest than to ease her, but there was nothing I
could do to do her any good with.

16th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, where all the morning making a
catalogue of my books, which did find me work, but with great pleasure, my
chamber and books being now set in very good order, and my chamber washed
and cleaned, which it had not been in some months before, my business and
trouble having been so much.  At noon Mr. Holliard put in, and dined with
my wife and me, who was a little better to-day.  His company very good.
His story of his love and fortune, which hath been very good and very bad
in the world, well worth hearing.  Much discourse also about the bad state
of the Church, and how the Clergy are come to be men of no worth in the
world; and, as the world do now generally discourse, they must be
reformed; and I believe the Hierarchy will in a little time be shaken,
whether they will or no; the King being offended with them, and set upon
it, as I hear.  He gone, after dinner to have my head combed, and then to
my chamber and read most of the evening till pretty late, when, my wife
not being well, I did lie below stairs in our great chamber, where I slept
well.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning till noon getting some
things more ready against the afternoon for the Committee of Accounts,
which did give me great trouble, to see how I am forced to dance after
them in one place, and to answer Committees of Parliament in another.  At
noon thence toward the Committee, but meeting with Sir W. Warren in Fleet
Street he and I to the Ordinary by Temple Bar and there dined together,
and to talk, where he do seem to be very high now in defiance of the
Board, now he says that the worst is come upon him to have his accounts
brought to the Committee of Accounts, and he do reflect upon my late
coldness to him, but upon the whole I do find that he is still a cunning
fellow, and will find it necessary to be fair to me, and what hath passed
between us of coldness to hold his tongue, which do please me very well.
Thence to the Committee, where I did deliver the several things they
expected from me, with great respect and show of satisfaction, and my mind
thereby eased of some care.  But thence I to Westminster Hall, and there
spent till late at night walking to and again with many people, and there
in general I hear of the great high words that were in the House on
Saturday last, upon the first part of the Committee's Report about the
dividing of the fleete; wherein some would have the counsels of the King
to be declared, and the reasons of them, and who did give them; where Sir
W. Coventry laid open to them the consequences of doing that, that the
King would never have any honest and wise men ever to be of his Council.
They did here in the House talk boldly of the King's bad counsellors, and
how they must be all turned out, and many of them, and better; brought in:
and the proceedings of the Long-Parliament in the beginning of the war
were called to memory: and the King's bad intelligence was mentioned,
wherein they were bitter against my Lord Arlington, saying, among other
things, that whatever Morrice's was, who declared he had but L750 a-year
allowed him for intelligence, the King paid too dear for my Lord
Arlington's, in giving him L10,000 and a barony for it.  Sir W. Coventry
did here come to his defence, in the business of the letter that was sent
to call back Prince Rupert, after he was divided from the fleete, wherein
great delay was objected; but he did show that he sent it at one in the
morning, when the Duke of York did give him the instructions after supper
that night, and did clear himself well of it: only it was laid as a fault,
which I know not how he removes, of not sending it by an express, but by
the ordinary post; but I think I have heard he did send it to my Lord
Arlington's; and that there it lay for some hours; it coming not to Sir
Philip Honiwood's hand at Portsmouth till four in the afternoon that day,
being about fifteen or sixteen hours in going; and about this, I think, I
have heard of a falling out between my Lord Arlington, heretofore, and W.
Coventry. Some mutterings I did hear of a design of dissolving the
Parliament; but I think there is no ground for it yet, though Oliver would
have dissolved them for half the trouble and contempt these have put upon
the King and his councils.  The dividing of the fleete, however, is, I
hear, voted a miscarriage, and the not building a fortification at
Sheernesse: and I have reason every hour to expect that they will vote the
like of our paying men off by ticket; and what the consequence of that
will be I know not, but I am put thereby into great trouble of mind.  I
did spend a little time at the Swan, and there did kiss the maid, Sarah.
At noon home, and there up to my wife, who is still ill, and supped with
her, my mind being mighty full of trouble for the office and my
concernments therein, and so to supper and talking with W. Hewer in her
chamber about business of the office, wherein he do well understand
himself and our case, and it do me advantage to talk with him and the rest
of my people. I to bed below as I did last night.

18th.  Up by break of day, and walked down to the old Swan, where I find
little Michell building, his booth being taken down, and a foundation laid
for a new house, so that that street is like to be a very fine place.  I
drank, but did not see Betty, and so to Charing Cross stairs, and thence
walked to Sir W. Coventry's,

     [Sir William Coventry's love of money is said by Sir John Denham to
     have influenced him in promoting naval officers, who paid him for
     their commissions.

               "Then Painter! draw cerulian Coventry
               Keeper, or rather Chancellor o' th' sea
               And more exactly to express his hue,
               Use nothing but ultra-mariuish blue.
               To pay his fees, the silver trumpet spends,
               And boatswain's whistle for his place depends.
               Pilots in vain repeat their compass o'er,
               Until of him they learn that one point more
               The constant magnet to the pole doth hold,
               Steel to the magnet, Coventry to gold.
               Muscovy sells us pitch, and hemp, and tar;
               Iron and copper, Sweden; Munster, war;
               Ashley, prize; Warwick, custom;
               Cart'ret, pay;
               But Coventry doth sell the fleet away."--B.]

and talked with him, who tells me how he hath been persecuted, and how he
is yet well come off in the business of the dividing of the fleete, and
the sending of the letter.  He expects next to be troubled about the
business of bad officers in the fleete, wherein he will bid them name whom
they call bad, and he will justify himself, having never disposed of any
but by the Admiral's liking.  And he is able to give an account of all
them, how they come recommended, and more will be found to have been
placed by the Prince and Duke of Albemarle than by the Duke of York during
the war, and as no bad instance of the badness of officers he and I did
look over the list of commanders, and found that we could presently
recollect thirty-seven commanders that have been killed in actuall service
this war.  He tells me that Sir Fr. Hollis is the main man that hath
persecuted him hitherto, in the business of dividing the fleete, saying
vainly that the want of that letter to the Prince hath given him that,
that he shall remember it by to his grave, meaning the loss of his arme;
when, God knows! he is as idle and insignificant a fellow as ever come
into the fleete.  He tells me that in discourse on Saturday he did repeat
Sir Rob. Howard's words about rowling out of counsellors, that for his
part he neither cared who they rowled in, nor who they rowled out, by
which the word is become a word of use in the House, the rowling out of
officers.  I will remember what, in mirth, he said to me this morning,
when upon this discourse he said, if ever there was another Dutch war,
they should not find a Secretary; "Nor," said I, "a Clerk of the Acts, for
I see the reward of it; and, thanked God! I have enough of my own to buy
me a good book and a good fiddle, and I have a good wife;"--"Why," says
he, "I have enough to buy me a good book, and shall not need a fiddle,
because I have never a one of your good wives."  I understand by him that
we are likely to have our business of tickets voted a miscarriage, but
[he] cannot tell me what that will signify more than that he thinks they
will report them to the King and there leave them, but I doubt they will
do more.  Thence walked over St. James's Park to White Hall, and thence to
Westminster Hall, and there walked all the morning, and did speak with
several Parliament-men-among others, Birch, who is very kind to me, and
calls me, with great respect and kindness, a man of business, and he
thinks honest, and so long will stand by me, and every such man, to the
death.  My business was to instruct them to keep the House from falling
into any mistaken vote about the business of tickets, before they were
better informed.  I walked in the Hall all the morning with my Lord
Brouncker, who was in great pain there, and, the truth is, his business
is, without reason, so ill resented by the generality of the House, that I
was almost troubled to be seen to walk with him, and yet am able to
justify him in all, that he is under so much scandal for.  Here I did get
a copy of the report itself, about our paying off men by tickets; and am
mightily glad to see it, now knowing the state of our case, and what we
have to answer to, and the more for that the House is like to be kept by
other business to-day and to-morrow, so that, against Thursday, I shall be
able to draw up some defence to put into some Member's hands, to inform
them, and I think we may [make] a very good one, and therefore my mind is
mightily at ease about it.  This morning they are upon a Bill, brought in
to-day by Sir Richard Temple, for obliging the King to call Parliaments
every three years; or, if he fail, for others to be obliged to do it, and
to keep him from a power of dissolving any Parliament in less than forty
days after their first day of sitting, which is such a Bill as do speak
very high proceedings, to the lessening of the King; and this they will
carry, and whatever else they desire, before they will give any money; and
the King must have money, whatever it cost him.  I stepped to the Dog
Tavern, and thither come to me Doll Lane, and there we did drink together,
and she tells me she is my valentine .  .  .  .  Thence, she being gone,
and having spoke with Mr. Spicer here, whom I sent for hither to discourse
about the security of the late Act of 11 months' tax on which I have
secured part of my money lent to Tangier.  I to the Hall, and there met
Sir W. Pen, and he and I to the Beare, in Drury Lane, an excellent
ordinary, after the French manner, but of Englishmen; and there had a good
fricassee, our dinner coming to 8s., which was mighty pretty, to my great
content; and thence, he and I to the King's house, and there, in one of
the upper boxes, saw "Flora's Vagarys," which is a very silly play; and
the more, I being out of humour, being at a play without my wife, and she
ill at home, and having no desire also to be seen, and, therefore, could
not look about me.  Thence to the Temple, and there we parted, and I to
see Kate Joyce, where I find her and her friends in great ease of mind,
the jury having this day given in their verdict that her husband died of a
feaver.  Some opposition there was, the foreman pressing them to declare
the cause of the feaver, thinking thereby to obstruct it: but they did
adhere to their verdict, and would give no reason; so all trouble is now
over, and she safe in her estate, which I am mighty glad of, and so took
leave, and home, and up to my wife, not owning my being at a play, and
there she shews me her ring of a Turky-stone set with little sparks of
dyamonds,

     [The turquoise.  This stone was sometimes referred to simply as the
     turkey, and Broderip ("Zoological Recreations") conjectured that the
     bird (turkey) took its name from the blue or turquoise colour of the
     skin about its head.]

which I am to give her, as my Valentine, and I am not much troubled at it.
It will cost me near L5--she costing me but little compared with other
wives, and I have not many occasions to spend on her.  So to my office,
where late, and to think upon my observations to-morrow, upon the report
of the Committee to the Parliament about the business of tickets, whereof
my head is full, and so home to supper and to bed.

19th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning drawing up an answer
to the Report of the Committee for miscarriages to the Parliament touching
our paying men by tickets, which I did do in a very good manner I think.
Dined with my clerks at home, where much good discourse of our business of
the Navy, and the trouble now upon us, more than we expected. After dinner
my wife out with Deb., to buy some things against my sister's wedding, and
I to the office to write fair my business I did in the morning, and in the
evening to White Hall, where I find Sir W. Coventry all alone, a great
while with the Duke of York, in the King's drawing-room, they two talking
together all alone, which did mightily please me.  Then I did get Sir W.
Coventry (the Duke of York being gone) aside, and there read over my
paper, which he liked and corrected, and tells me it will be hard to
escape, though the thing be never so fair, to have it voted a miscarriage;
but did advise me and my Lord Brouncker, who coming by did join with us,
to prepare some members in it, which we shall do.  Here I do hear how La
Roche, a French captain, who was once prisoner here, being with his ship
at Plymouth, hath played some freakes there, for which his men being beat
out of the town, he hath put up his flag of defiance, and also, somewhere
thereabout, did land with his men, and go a mile into the country, and did
some pranks, which sounds pretty odd, to our disgrace, but we are in
condition now to bear any thing. But, blessed be God! all the Court is
full of the good news of my Lord Sandwich's having made a peace between
Spain and Portugall, which is mighty great news, and, above all, to my
Lord's honour, more than any thing he ever did; and yet I do fear it will
not prevail to secure him in Parliament against incivilities there.
Thence, took up my wife at Unthanke's, and so home, and there my mind
being full of preparing my paper against to-morrow for the House, with an
address from the office to the House, I to the office, very late, and then
home to supper and to bed.

20th.  Up, and to the office a while, and thence to White Hall by coach
with Mr. Batelier with me, whom I took up in the street.  I thence by
water to Westminster Hall, and there with Lord Brouncker, Sir T. Harvy,
Sir J. Minnes, did wait all the morning to speak to members about our
business, thinking our business of tickets would come before the House
to-day, but we did alter our minds about the petition to the House,
sending in the paper to them.  But the truth is we were in a great hurry,
but it fell out that they were most of the morning upon the business of
not prosecuting the first victory; which they have voted one of the
greatest miscarriages of the whole war, though they cannot lay the fault
anywhere yet, because Harman is not come home.  This kept them all the
morning, which I was glad of.  So down to the Hall, where my wife by
agreement stayed for me at Mrs. Michell's, and there was Mercer and the
girl, and I took them to Wilkinson's the cook's in King Street (where I
find the master of the house hath been dead for some time), and there
dined, and thence by one o'clock to the King's house: a new play, "The
Duke of Lerma," of Sir Robert Howard's: where the King and Court was; and
Knepp and Nell spoke the prologue most excellently, especially Knepp, who
spoke beyond any creature I ever, heard.  If it goes below the normal the
heart is weak, or the exercise was excessive.

3. The pulse rate should increase with exercise, but not excessively, and
should within a reasonable time return to normal.

4.

The stethoscope will show whether or not the normal sounds of the heart
become relatively abnormal after exercise. If such was the fact, though
the abnormality was not permanent, heart insufficiency is more or less in
evidence.

5. The relation of pulse rate to blood pressure should always be noted,
and the working power of the heart may be estimated according to Barach's
suggestion.

6. The dumb-bell exercise tests suggested by Barringer (only, the dumb-bells
may be of lighter weight) are valuable to note the gradual improvement
in heart strength of patients under treatment.

7. The holding the breath test is very suggestive of heart efficiency or
weakness, but a series of tests must be made before its limitations are
proved.

THE EFFECT OF ATHLETICS ON THE HEART
We can no longer neglect the seriousness of the effects of
competitive athletics on the heart, especially in youth and young adults.
Not only universities and preparatory schools, but also high schools and
even grammar schools must consider the advisability of continuing competitive
sports without more control than is now the case. In the first place, the
individual is likely to be trained in one particular branch or in one
particular line, which develops one particular set of muscles. In the
second place, competition to exhaustion, to vomiting, faintness, and
even syncope is absolutely inexcusable. Furthermore, contests which partake
of brutality should certainly be seriously censored.

A committee appointed some time ago by the Medical Society of the State of
California [Footnote: California State Med. Jour., June, 1916 p. 220.]
has recently reported its endorsement of Foster's "Indictment of
Intercollegiate Athletics." After five years of personal observation of
no less than 100 universities and colleges, in thirty-eight states,
Foster concludes that intercollegiate athletics have proved a failure, and
that they are costly and injurious on account of an excessive physical
training of a few students, and of such students as need training
least, while healthful and moderate exercise at a small expense for all
students is most needed.

Experts, [Footnote: Rubner and Kraus: Vrtljsehr. f. gerichtl. Med, 1914,
xlviii, 304.] appointed by the Prussian government to investigate athletics,
reported that for physical exercise to be of real value it must be quite
different from the preparation of a specially equipped individual trained
for a game. Exercise should benefit all children and youth, while
athletic prowess necessitates taxing the organism to the limit of
endurance, and hence is dangerous and should not be allowed in schools
or universities.

McKenzie [Footnote: McKenzie: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., January, 1913, p.
69.] found that exhausting tests of endurance were not adapted to the
development of children and youth, because the high blood pressure caused
by such exertion soon continued, and he found athletes to have a
prolonged increased blood pressure.

     As is recognized by all, boat racing is particularly bad, especially
     the 4-mile row. Such severe exertion of course increases the
     blood pressure, even in these athletes, and the heart increases its
     speed.
     There is then exhilaration, later discomfort, and soon, as McKenzie
     points out, a sensation of constriction in the chest and head. This
     is soon followed by breathlessness, and soon by a feeling of fulness
     in the head, and then syncope. The heart, of course, becomes dilated.
     Heart murmurs are often found after much less severe exertion than
     boat racing. They may not last long, or they may disappear under
     proper treatment. He reported that after exercise there were heart
     murmurs in seventy-four of 266 young men who were in normal health,
     and that nearly 28 per cent of all normal young men will
     show a murmur after exercise. He thinks that it is rare to find,
     after a week, a heart murmur in a previously healthy heart, if the
     athlete has not passed the age of 30.
     
     There can be no doubt that even one, to say nothing of more, such
     heart strains is inexcusable and may leave a more or less lasting
     injury. Such heart strains and exertions are not entirely seen in
     athletes. A man otherwise well may cause such a heart strain by
     cranking his automobile, by pumping up a tire, by strenuous lifting,
     by carrying a load too far or too rapidly, or by running, and an
     elderly man may even cause such a heart strain by walking, hill
     climbing, or even golfing, if he does these things. More or
     less acute dilatation occurring in such persons is likely
     to recur on the least exertion, unless the patient takes a
     prolonged rest cure and the heart is so well that it recuperates
perfectly.

Any chronic myocarditis, however, may prevent such a heart from
ever being as perfect as it was before.

Torgersen, [Footnote: Torgersen: Norsk Mag. f. Laegevidensk., April, 1914.]
after making 600 examinations of 200 athletes, and 1,200 examinations of
members of the rowing crew, decides that it is absolutely essential that
there should be skilled daily examinations of every man during training,
and a record kept of the condition of his heart, urine, and blood
pressure, before and after exercise.
When he found albumin in the urine it was always accompanied by a falling
of the blood pressure and a rapid heart, with loss of weight and a
general feeling of debility.

Middleton [Footnote: Middleton: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., September, 1915,
p. 426.] examined students who were training for football, both during
the training and after the training period, and found that after the rest
succeeding a training period there was an increased systolic and
diastolic blood pressure over the records of before the training
period.

This would tend to indicate some hypertrophy of the heart.

Insurance statistics seem to show that athletes are likely to have earlier
cardiovascular-renal disease than other individuals of the same class and
occupations.

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF ATHLETICS
1. Gymnasiums and athletic grounds in connection with all colleges, preparatory
schools, seminaries and high schools are essential, and they should be
added to grammar schools whenever possible.

2. Physical training and athletic games, and perhaps some type of military
training are valuable for the proper development of youth.

3. Some forms of competitive games and some competitive feats are valuable
in stimulating training and healthful sports.

4. All competitive sports and all hard training should be under the advice
and supervision of a medical council or a medical trainer.
Competitive sports which are generally recognized as harmful, mostly on
account of their duration as related to the age of the competitors,
should be prohibited.

5.

Each boy should be carefully examined by a competent physician to decide
as to his general health, his limitations and the special training necessary
to perfect him or to overcome any defect. Such examinations are even more
essential in schools for girls.

6. In all group training, the weak individuals should be noted by the medical
trainer, and they should receive special and more carefully graded
exercise.

7. In all strenuous training or competitive athletic work, the participators
should all be examined more or less frequently and more or less carefully
for heart strain and albuminuria and also for a too great increase of
blood pressure.

8. All training and all athletic sports should be graded to the age of
the boy or girl and not necessarily to his or her size. Many an overgrown
boy is injured by athletic prowess beyond his heart strength.

SIGNS OF HEART WEAKNESS
It should be remembered that a normal heart may slow to about 60 during
sleep, and all nervous acceleration of the pulse may be differentiated
during sleep by the fact that if the heart does not markedly slow, there
is cardiac weakness or some general disturbance. There is also cardiac
weakness if there is a tendency to yawn or to take long breaths after slight
exertions or during exertion, or if there is a feeling of suffocation
and the person suddenly wants the windows open, or cannot work, even for
a few minutes, in a closed room. If these disturbances are purely
functional, exercise not only may be endured, but will relieve some nervous
heart disturbances, while it will aggravate a real heart disability. If
the heart tends to increase in rapidity on lying down, or the person cannot
breathe well or feels suffocated with one ordinary pillow, the heart shows
more or less weakness.
Extrasystoles are due to abnormal irritability of the heart muscle, and
may or may not be noted by the patient. If they are noted, and he complains
of the condition, the prognosis is better than though he does not
note them.

It has long been known that asthma, emphysema, whooping cough, and prolonged
bronchitis with hard coughing will dilate the heart. It has not been
recognized until recently, as shown by Guthrie, [Footnote: Guthrie, J. B.:
Cough Dilatation Time a Measure of Heart Function, The Journal. A. M. A.,
Jan. 3, 1914, p. 30.] that even one attack of more or less hard coughing
will temporarily enlarge the heart. From these slight occurrences, however,
the heart quickly returns to its normal size; but if the coughing is
frequently repeated, the dilatation is more prolonged. This emphasizes the
necessity of supporting the heart in serious pulmonary conditions, and
also the necessity of modifying the intensity of the cough by necessary
drugs.

In deciding that a heart is enlarged by noting the apex beat, percussion
dulness, and by fluoroscopy, it should be remembered that the apex beat
may be several centimeters to the left from the actual normal point,
and yet the heart not be enlarged.

The necessity of protecting the heart in acute infections, and the
seriousness to the heart of infections are emphasized by the present
knowledge that tonsillitis, acute or chronic, and mouth and nose
infections of all kinds can injure the heart muscle. In probably nearly
every case of diphtheria, unless of the mildest type, there is some
myocardial involvement, even if not more than 25 percent of such cases
show clinical symptoms of such heart injury. Tuberculosis of different parts
of the body also, sooner or later, injures the heart; and the effect
of syphilis on the heart is now well recognized.

SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF CARDIAC DISTURBANCE
It is now recognized that any infection can cause weakness and degeneration
of the heart muscle. The Streptococcus rheumaticus found in rheumatic
joints is probably the cause of such heart injury in rheumatism.

That prolonged fever from any cause injures heart muscle has long
been recognized, and cardiac dilatation after severe illness is now more
carefully prevented. It is not sufficiently recognized that chronic,
slow-going infection can injure the heart.
Such infections most frequently occur in the tonsils, in the gums, and in
the sinuses around the nose. Tonsillitis, acute or chronic, has been shown
to be a menace to the heart. Acute streptococcie tonsillitis is a very
frequent disease, and the patient generally, under proper treatment, quickly
recovers. Tonsillitis in a more or less acute form, however, sometimes
so mild as to be almost unnoticed, probably precedes most attacks
of acute inflammatory rheumatism.

     Chronically diseased tonsils may not cause joint pains or acute
     fever, but they are certainly often the source of blood infection
     and later of cardiac inflammations. The probability of chronic
     inflammation and weakening of the heart muscle from such slow-going
     and continuous infection must be recognized, and the source
     of such infection removed.
     

The determination of the presence of valvular lesions is only a small part
of the physical examination of the heart. Furthermore, the heart is too
readily eliminated from the cause of the general disturbance because
murmurs are not heard. A careful decision as to the size of the heart
will often show that it has become slightly dilated and is a
cause of the general symptoms of weakness, leg weariness, slight dyspnea,
epigastric distress or actual chest pains. Many such cases are treated for
gastric disturbance because there are some gastric symptoms. There is
no question that gastric flatulence, or hyperacidity, or a large meal
causing distention of the stomach may increase the cardiac disturbance, and
the cardiac disturbance may be laid entirely to indigestion; but treatment
directed toward the stomach, while it may ameliorate some of the
symptoms, will not remove the cause of the symptoms.

If the patient complains of pains in any part of the chest or upper abdomen,
or of leg aches, or of being weary, or exhausted, or of sleeplessness at
night, or of pains in the back of his head, we should investigate the
cardiac ability, besides ruling out all of the more frequently recognized
causes of these disturbances.

If there is more dyspnea than normally should occur in the individual patient
after walking rapidly or climbing a hill or going upstairs, or if after
a period of a little excitement one finds that he cannot breathe quite
normally, or that something feels tight in his chest, the heart needs
resting. If, after one has been driving a motor car or even sitting at
rest in one which has been going at speed or has come unpleasantly near to
hitting something or to being run into, it is noticed that the little
period of cardiac disturbance and chest tension is greater than it should
be, the heart needs resting.

If the least excitement or exertion increases the cardiac speed abnormally,
it means that for many minutes, if not actually hours during the twenty-four,
the heart is contracting too rapidly, and this alone means muscle
tire and muscle nutrition lost, even if there is no actual defect
in the cardiac muscle or in its own blood supply.

If we multiply these extra pulsations or contractions by the number of
minutes a day that this extra amount of work is done, it will easily be
demonstrable to the physician and the patient what an amount of good
a rest, however partial, each twenty-four hours will do to this heart.
Of course anything that tends to increase the activity of the disturbance
of the heart should be corrected.
Overeating, overdrinking (even water), and overuse or perhaps any use of
alcohol, tobacco, tea and coffee should all be prevented. In fact, we
come right to the discussion of the proper treatment and management
of beginning high blood pressure, of the incipiency of arteriosclerosis,
of the prevention of chronic interstitial nephritis, and the prevention
of cardiovascular-renal disease.

When an otherwise apparently well person begins to complain of weariness,
or perhaps drowsiness in the daytime and sleeplessness at night, or his
sleep is disturbed, or be has feelings of mental depression, or he says
that he "senses" his heart, perhaps for the first time in his life,
with or without edema of the feet and legs, or pains referred to the heart
or heart region, we should presuppose that there is weakening of the
heart muscle until, by perfect examination, we have excluded the heart as
being the cause of such disturbance.

Although constantly repeated by all books on the heart and by many articles
on cardiac pain, it still is often forgotten that pain due to cardiac
disturbance may be referred to the shoulders, to the upper part of the
chest, to the axillae, to the arms, and even to the wrists, to the
neck, into the head, and into the upper abdomen.
It is perhaps generally auricular disturbance that causes pain to ascend,
but disturbances of the ventricles can cause pain in the arms and in the
region of the stomach. Not infrequently disturbances of the aorta cause
pain over the right side of the chest as well as tip into the neck.
Real heart pains frequently occur without any valvular lesion, and
also when necropsies have shown that there has been no sclerosis
of the coronary vessels.
While angina pectoris is a distinct, well recognized condition,
pains in the regions mentioned, especially if they occur after
exertion or after mental excitement or even after eating (provided
a real gastric excuse has been eliminated), are due to a disturbance
of the heart, generally to an overstrained heart muscle or to a
slight dilatation. Too much or too little blood in the cavity of
the heart may cause distress and pain; or an imperfect circulation
through the coronary arteries and the vessels of the heart, impairing
its nutrition or causing it to tire more readily, may be the cause
of these cardiac pains, distress or discomfort.
Palpating the radial artery is not absolutely reliable in all cases
of auricular fibrillation, or in another form of arrhythmia called
auricular flutter or tachysystole. James and Hart [Footnote: James
and Hart: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., 1914, cxlvii, 63.] have found that
the pulse is not a true criterion of the condition Of the
circulation.
There is always a certain amount of heart block associated with
auricular fibrillation so that not all of the auricular stimuli
pass through the bundle of His. James and Hart determine the heart
rate both at the radial pulse and at the apex, the difference being
called the pulse deficit. They use this deficit as an aid in deciding
when to stop the administration of digitalis. When the pulse deficit
is zero, the digitalis is stopped. In this connection they also
find that, even though the pulse deficit may be zero, there may be
a difference in force and size of the waves at the radial artery.
This can be demonstrated by the use of a cuff around the brachial
artery and by varying the pressure. It will be found that the greater
the pressure, the fewer the number of beats coming through.
Besides the instruments of precision referred to above, more careful
percussion, more careful auscultation, more careful measurements,
roentgenoscopy and fluoroscopic examination of the heart, and a
study of the circulation with the patient standing, sitting, lying
and after exercise make the determination of circulatory ability a
specialty, and the physician who becomes an expert a specialist.
It is a specialization needed today almost more than in any other
line of medical science.
So frequently is the cause of these pains, disturbances and weakness
overlooked and the stomach or the intestines treated, or treatment
aimed at neuralgias, rheumatisms or rheumatic conditions, that a
careful examination of the patient, and a consideration of the part
the heart is playing in the causation of these symptoms are always
necessary.
The treatment required for such a heart, unless there is some
complication, as a kidney complication or a too high blood pressure,
or arteriosclerosis (and none of these causes necessarily prohibits
energetic cardiac treatment), is digitalis. If there is doubt as
to the condition of the cardiac arteries, digitalis should be given
in small doses. If it causes distinct cardiac pain, it is not
indicated and should be stopped. If, on the other hand, improvement
occurs, as it generally does, the dose can be regulated by the
results. The minimum dose which improves the condition is the proper
one. Enough should be given; too much should not be given. Before
deciding that digitalis does not improve the condition (provided
it does not cause cardiac pain) the physician should know that a
good and efficient preparation of digitalis is being taken. Strychnin
will sometimes whip up a tired heart and tide it over periods of
depression, but it is a whip and not a cardiac tonic.So home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and by water to Charing Cross stairs, and thence to W. Coventry
to discourse concerning the state of matters in the Navy, where he
particularly acquainted me with the trouble he is like to meet with about
the selling of places, all carried on by Sir Fr. Hollis, but he seems not
to value it, being able to justify it to be lawful and constant practice,
and never by him used in the least degree since he upon his own motion did
obtain a salary of L500 in lieu thereof.  Thence to the Treasury Chamber
about a little business, and so home by coach, and in my way did meet W.
Howe going to the Commissioners of Accounts.  I stopped and spoke to him,
and he seems well resolved what to answer them, but he will find them very
strict, and not easily put off: So home and there to dinner, and after
dinner comes W. Howe to tell me how he sped, who says he was used civilly,
and not so many questions asked as he expected; but yet I do perceive
enough to shew that they do intend to know the bottom of things, and where
to lay the great weight of the disposal of these East India goods, and
that they intend plainly to do upon my Lord Sandwich.  Thence with him by
coach and set him down at the Temple, and I to Westminster Hall, where, it
being now about six o'clock, I find the House just risen; and met with Sir
W. Coventry and the Lieutenant of the Tower, they having sat all day; and
with great difficulty have got a vote for giving the King L300,000, not to
be raised by any land-tax.  The sum is much smaller than I expected, and
than the King needs; but is grounded upon Mr. Wren's reading our estimates
the other day of L270,000, to keep the fleete abroad, wherein we demanded
nothing for setting and fitting of them out, which will cost almost
L200,000, I do verily believe: and do believe that the King hath no cause
to thank Wren for this motion.  I home to Sir W. Coventry's lodgings, with
him and the Lieutenant of the Tower, where also was Sir John Coventry, and
Sir John Duncomb, and Sir Job Charleton.  And here a great deal of good
discourse: and they seem mighty glad to have this vote pass, which I did
wonder at, to see them so well satisfied with so small a sum, Sir John
Duncomb swearing, as I perceive he will freely do, that it was as much as
the nation could beare.  Among other merry discourse about spending of
money, and how much more chargeable a man's living is now more than it was
heretofore, Duncomb did swear that in France he did live of L100 a year
with more plenty, and wine and wenches, than he believes can be done now
for L200, which was pretty odd for him, being a Committee-man's son, to
say.  Having done here, and supped, where I eat very little, we home in
Sir John Robinson's coach, and there to bed.

27th.  All the morning at the office, and at noon home to dinner, and
thence with my wife and Deb. to the King's House, to see "The Virgin
Martyr," the first time it hath been acted a great while: and it is mighty
pleasant; not that the play is worth much, but it is finely acted by Becke
Marshall.  But that which did please me beyond any thing in, the whole
world was the wind-musique when the angel comes down, which is so sweet
that it ravished me, and indeed, in a word, did wrap up my soul so that it
made me really sick, just as I have formerly been when in love with my
wife; that neither then, nor all the evening going home, and at home, I
was able to think of any thing, but remained all night transported, so as
I could not believe that ever any musick hath that real command over the
soul of a man as this did upon me: and makes me resolve to practice
wind-musique, and to make my wife do the like.

28th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning doing business, and
after dinner with Sir W. Pen to White Hall, where we and the rest of us
presented a great letter of the state of our want of money to his Royal
Highness.  I did also present a demand of mine for consideration for my
travelling-charges of coach and boat-hire during the war, which, though
his Royal Highness and the company did all like of, yet, contrary to my
expectation, I find him so jealous now of doing any thing extraordinary,
that he desired the gentlemen that they would consider it, and report
their minds in it to him.  This did unsettle my mind a great while, not
expecting this stop: but, however, I shall do as well, I know, though it
causes me a little stop.  But that, that troubles me most is, that while
we were thus together with the Duke of York, comes in Mr. Wren from the
House, where, he tells us, another storm hath been all this day almost
against the Officers of the Navy upon this complaint,--that though they
have made good rules for payment of tickets, yet that they have not
observed them themselves, which was driven so high as to have it urged
that we should presently be put out of our places: and so they have at
last ordered that we shall be heard at the bar of the House upon this
business on Thursday next.  This did mightily trouble me and us all; but
me particularly, who am least able to bear these troubles, though I have
the least cause to be concerned in it.  Thence, therefore, to visit Sir H.
Cholmly, who hath for some time been ill of a cold; and thence walked
towards Westminster, and met Colonel Birch, who took me back to walk with
him, and did give me an account of this day's heat against the Navy
Officers, and an account of his speech on our behalf, which was very good;
and indeed we are much beholden to him, as I, after I parted with him, did
find by my cozen Roger, whom I went to: and he and I to his lodgings.  And
there he did tell me the same over again; and how much Birch did stand up
in our defence; and that he do see that there are many desirous to have us
out of the Office; and the House is so furious and passionate, that he
thinks nobody can be secure, let him deserve never so well.  But now, he
tells me, we shall have a fair hearing of the House, and he hopes justice
of them: but, upon the whole, he do agree with me that I should hold my
hand as to making any purchase of land, which I had formerly discoursed
with him about, till we see a little further how matters go.  He tells me
that that made them so mad to-day first was, several letters in the House
about the Fanatickes, in several places, coming in great bodies, and
turning people out of the churches, and there preaching themselves, and
pulling the surplice over the Parsons' heads: this was confirmed from
several places; which makes them stark mad, especially the hectors and
bravadoes of the House, who shew all the zeal on this occasion.  Having
done with him, I home vexed in my mind, and so fit for no business, but
sat talking with my wife and supped with her; and Nan Mercer come and sat
all the evening with us, and much pretty discourse, which did a little
ease me, and so to bed.

29th.  Up, and walked to Captain Cocke's, where Sir G. Carteret promised
to meet me and did come to discourse about the prize-business of my Lord
Sandwich's, which I perceive is likely to be of great ill consequence to
my Lord, the House being mighty vehement in it.  We could say little but
advise that his friends should labour to get it put off, till he comes. We
did here talk many things over, in lamentation of the present posture of
affairs, and the ill condition of all people that have had anything to do
under the King, wishing ourselves a great way off: Here they tell me how
Sir Thomas Allen hath taken the Englishmen out of "La Roche," and taken
from him an Ostend prize which La Roche had fetched out of our harbours;
and at this day La Roche keeps upon our coasts; and had the boldness to
land some men and go a mile up into the country, and there took some goods
belonging to this prize out of a house there; which our King resents, and,
they say, hath wrote to the King of France about; and everybody do think a
war will follow; and then in what a case we shall be for want of money,
nobody knows.  Thence to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at
noon home to dinner, and to the office again in the afternoon, where we
met to consider of an answer to the Parliament about the not paying of
tickets according to our own orders, to which I hope we shall be able to
give a satisfactory answer, but that the design of the House being
apparently to remove us, I do question whether the best answer will
prevail with them.  This done I by coach with my wife to Martin, my
bookseller's, expecting to have had my Kercher's Musurgia, but to my
trouble and loss of trouble it was not done.  So home again, my head full
of thoughts about our troubles in the office, and so to the office.  Wrote
to my father this post, and sent him now Colvill's--[The Goldsmith.]--note
for L600 for my sister's portion, being glad that I shall, I hope, have
that business over before I am out of place, and I trust I shall be able
to save a little of what I have got, and so shall not be troubled to be at
ease; for I am weary of this life.  So ends this month, with a great deal
of care and trouble in my head about the answerings of the Parliament, and
particularly in our payment of seamen by tickets.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Being very poor and mean as to the bearing with trouble
     Bite at the stone, and not at the hand that flings it
     Burned it, that it might not be among my books to my shame
     Come to see them in bed together, on their wedding-night
     Fear what would become of me if any real affliction should come
     Force a man to swear against himself
     L'escholle des filles, a lewd book
     Live of L100 a year with more plenty, and wine and wenches
     No pleasure--only the variety of it


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 MARCH
                               1667-1668

March 1st (Lord's day).  Up very betimes, and by coach to Sir W.
Coventry's; and there, largely carrying with me all my notes and papers,
did run over our whole defence in the business of tickets, in order to the
answering the House on Thursday next; and I do think, unless they be set
without reason to ruin us, we shall make a good defence.  I find him in
great anxiety, though he will not discover it, in the business of the
proceedings of Parliament; and would as little as is possible have his
name mentioned in our discourse to them; and particularly the business of
selling places is now upon his hand to defend himself in; wherein I did
help him in his defence about the flag-maker's place, which is named in
the House.  We did here do the like about the complaint of want of
victuals in the fleete in the year 1666, which will lie upon me to defend
also.  So that my head is full of care and weariness in my employment.
Thence home, and there my mind being a little lightened by my morning's
work in the arguments I have now laid together in better method for our
defence to the Parliament, I to talk with my wife; and in lieu of a coach
this year, I have got my wife to be contented with her closet being made
up this summer, and going into the country this summer for a month or two,
to my father's, and there Mercer and Deb.  and Jane shall go with her,
which I the rather do for the entertaining my wife, and preventing of
fallings out between her and my father or Deb., which uses to be the fate
of her going into the country.  After dinner by coach to Westminster, and
there to St. Margaret's church, thinking to have seen Betty Michell, but
she was not there, but met her father and mother and with them to her
father's house, where I never was before, but was mighty much made of,
with some good strong waters, which they have from their son Michell, and
mighty good people they are.  Thence to Mrs. Martin's, where I have not
been also a good while, and with great difficulty, company being there,
did get an opportunity to hazer what I would con her, and here I was
mightily taken with a starling which she hath, that was the King's, which
he kept in his bedchamber; and do whistle and talk the most and best that
ever I heard anything in my life.  Thence to visit Sir H. Cholmly, who
continues still sick of his cold, and thence calling, but in vain, to
speak with Sir G. Carteret at his house in Lincoln's Inn Fields, where I
spoke with nobody, but home, where spent the evening talking with W. Hewer
about business of the House, and declaring my expectation of all our being
turned out.  Hither comes Carcasse to me about business, and there did
confess to me of his own accord his having heretofore discovered as a
complaint against Sir W. Batten, Sir W. Pen and me that we did prefer the
paying of some men to man "The Flying Greyhound" to others, by order under
our hands.  The thing upon recollection I believe is true, and do hope no
great matter can be made of it, but yet I would be glad to have my name
out of it, which I shall labour to do; in the mean time it weighs as a new
trouble on my mind, and did trouble me all night.  Sometimes the heart
becomes inflamed in rheumatic children without any joint affection occurring;
the inflammation in the heart may be the only manifestation of the
disease.

This etiology of cardiac affections of children indicates the directions in
which therapeutic efforts should be aimed. In children who are under the
more or less constant care of the family physician, the possibility of
the occurrence of some cardiac affection should be borne in mind, especially
in children in families which are known to be affected with what may be
called a rheumatic diathesis--families in which several members have
suffered from rheumatism. It is reasonable to suppose that children who
are delicate and feeble, who do not have sufficient fresh air, who do not
take sufficient exercise, and who are not properly fed are more liable to
be affected with cardiac complications in the presence of infectious diseases
than children who have had plenty of fresh air, an abundance of exercise
and a sufficient amount of proper food.

At the present day it is hardly necessary to insist on the importance of
giving every child an adequate amount of fresh air. It is possible,
however, that this gospel has been overworked, and it is not infrequently
necessary to caution some parents that there is danger of impairing their
children's health by too much exposure.
The old ideas of the influence of exposure to cold and dampness in
the production of rheumatism have not yet been so far abandoned that we
can entirely neglect the possibility of rheumatism being developed,
at least, by the exposure to cold winds and dampness of children who are
otherwise predisposed to this disease. It is possible that the enormously
increasing number of children with adenoids and enlarged tonsils,
who need operative measures for their removal, may have these
conditions aggravated by too much exposure to the inclemency of
variable, harsh weather.

It is not necessary to state that proper exercise develops the heart, as
it does all the other muscles; but at the same time it is necessary
to caution parents against allowing their children to indulge in too
violent and too prolonged exercise. Young children probably stop often
enough in their play not to overwork their hearts. Older boys and girls,
especially boys, are inclined to take too severe athletics, such as
long-distance running, competitive rowing, violent football and rapid
cycling. It should be emphasized to school-masters, gymnasium teachers
and athletic trainers that a boy who is larger than he should be at his age
has not the circulatory ability that the older boy of the same size has.
The overgrown boy has all he can do to carry his bulk around at the speed
of his age and youth. The addition of competitive labor overreaches
his reserve heart power, and he readily acquires a strained, injured heart.
On the other hand, moderate indulgence in walking, baseball, swimming,
rowing and golf should be commended. It is not exactly the exercise that
does him the harm, it is the competitive element in it. Until a boy is
well developed in his internal reserve strength, he should not compete
with other boys who are better developed. His pride makes him do himself
injury.

Dietetic fads are so prevalent today that there is danger that many
children will not receive an adequate amount of nutriment, that they will
be fed an excess of such foods as are likely to produce damage to their
constitutions, or that they will be given food which does not contain
all the different elements of nutrition to satisfy their economy
and their growth.

While it is now generally acknowledged that an excess of meat is not
beneficial to any one, on the other hand a moderate amount is necessary for
individuals who are working or are mentally active, especially for growing
children. Also a too great limitation of the child's diet to farinaceous
foods, and especially the allowance of too much sugar and sugar-producing
food, is liable to encourage the development of rheumatism. A mixed diet,
not excessive in amount, and prepared so that it will be digested without
difficulty, is most useful, and it should include in suitable proportions
meat, milk, eggs, vegetables, starches and fruit. These should all be taken
at regular intervals, thoroughly chewed, and should not be taken in
excess.

If a child has had an attack of heart inflammation, a myocarditis or an
endocarditis, greater care should be taken of him not only when he is well
but especially when he becomes ill of any other disease.
If the child has had a rheumatic inflammation of the heart, or has had
rheumatism without such a complication, it is considered by some
clinicians wise to give a week's treatment with salicylates at intervals
of three or four months, for two or three years, perhaps.
It is hard to determine how much value this prophylactic treatment has. If
the child's surroundings cannot be changed and lie is subjected to the
same conditions of possible reinfection, it may be a wise precaution, much
like the prophylactic administration of quinin in malarial regions. If
a child has developed a cardiac inflammation during any disease, the
treatment is that previously outlined.

An important part of prophylaxis and treatment of a cardiac affection
during the course of any disease is the prevention of serious anemia.
During sickness the patient is liable to become more or less anemic, but
the administration of iron, in the manner previously suggested, during the
course of the disease, and especially during rheumatism, will prevent
the anemia becoming rapid or severe.

CARDIAC DISEASE IN PREGNANCY
It is so serious a thing for a woman with valvular lesion or other
cardiac defect to become pregnant that no young woman with heart
disease should be allowed to marry. Perhaps every normal heart during
pregnancy hypertrophies somewhat to do the extra work thrown on it, but
it may easily become weakened and show serious disturbance as its work
grows harder and the distention of the abdomen and the upward pressure
on the diaphragm increase. This pressure perhaps generally displaces the
apex of the heart to the left and causes the heart to lie a little more
horizontal. If the patient is normal, there may be a gradually increasing
blood pressure all through the months of pregnancy, and if the kidneys
are at all disturbed this pressure is increased, and there is, of course,
much increased resistance to the circulation during labor.
The better the heart acts, the less likely are edemas of the legs
during pregnancy. It is thus readily seen that pregnancy is a serious
thing for a damaged heart. The reserve strength of the heart muscle, as has
been previously stated, is much less in valvular compensation than that
of the normal heart, and this reserve force is easily overcome by the
pregnancy, and loss of compensation occurs with all of its usual
symptoms.

The most serious lesion a woman may have, as far as pregnancy is concerned,
is mitral stenosis. An increased abdnominal pressure interferes with her
lung capacity, and her lungs are already overcongested. The left ventricle
may be small with mitral stenosis, and therefore her general systemic
circulation poor. For those two reasons mitral stenosis should absolutely
prohibit pregnancy. While many women with well compensated
valvular disease go through pregnancy without serious trouble, still,
as stated above, they should be advised never to marry. If they do marry,
or if the lesion develops after marriage, warning should be given of the
seriousness of pregnancies.

If a woman becomes pregnant while there are symptoms or signs of
broken compensation, there can be no question, medically or morally, of
the advisability of evacuating the uterus. The same ruling is true if during
pregnancy the heart fails, compensation is broken, and the usual symptoms
of such heart weakness develop, provided a period of rest in bed, with
proper treatment, has shown that the heart will not again compensate.
Under such a condition delay should not be too long, as the heart may
become permanently disabled. If, during pregnancy in a patient with a
damaged heart, albuminuria develops and the blood pressure is increased,
showing kidney insufficiency, there can be no question of delay, from every
point of view, and labor must be precipitated; the uterus must be emptied
to save the mother's life.

If a pregnant woman is known to have a degenerative condition of the myocardium,
or arteriosclerosis, the danger from the pregnancy is serious, and the
pregnancy should rarely be allowed to continue.

Even if no serious symptoms occur during the term of the pregnancy, and the
heart continues to compensate sufficiently for its defect, labor should
never be allowed to be prolonged. The tension thrown on the heart during
labor is always severe, and has not infrequently caused acute heart failure
by causing acute dilatation, and in these damaged hearts tediousness and
severe, intense exertion should not be allowed. Proper anesthetics and
proper instrumentation should be inaugurated early.

Patients who have successfully passed through the danger of pregnancy with
cardiac lesions, possibly relieved by radical treatments, should be warned
against ever again becoming pregnant.
If this warning does not prevent future pregnancies, the family physician
and his consultant must decide just what it is proper to do. It is to be
understood that no uterus should ever be emptied until one or more
consultants have approved of such treatment.

Sometimes serious heart weakness develops during the later weeks of
pregnancy, requiring the patient to remain in bed and receive every
advantage which rest, proper care and well judged medicinal treatment
will give the circulation.

If the heart is weak and there have been signs of myocardial weakness or
loss of compensation, the sudden loss of abdominal pressure after delivery
may allow the blood vessels of the abdomen to become so overfilled as to
cause serious cerebral anemia and cardiac paralysis. Therefore in such
cases a tight bandage must immediately be applied, and it has even been
suggested that a weight, as a bag of sand weighing several pounds, be
placed temporarily on the abdomen. The greatest possible care should
be given these women during and after labor.

Acute dilatation is not an infrequent cause of death during ordinary
labor, and is more apt to occur in these cardiac patients. If signs of acute
dilatation of the heart occur, with associated pulmonary edema, venesection
(especially if there has not been much uterine hemorrhage), with the
coincident intramuscular injection of one or two syringefuls of aseptic
ergot, will often be found to be life- saving treatment. Septic infections
after parturition are prone to cause endocarditis and myocarditis, and
a malignant endocarditis may develop from uterine infection or
uterine putridity.

DEGENERATIONS
CORONARY SCLEROSIS

While disease of the coronary arteries may occur without general arteriosclerosis,
it is so frequently associated with it that it is necessary to give
a brief description of the general disease.
Arteriosclerosis or arteriocapillary fibrosis is really a physiologic process
naturally accompanying old age, of which it is a part or the cause, and it
should be considered a pathologic condition only when it occurs
prematurely. It may, however, occur at almost any age after 30, and is
beginning to be frequent between 40 and 50. In rare instances it may occur
between 20 and 30, and even in childhood and youth. It is much more
frequent in men than in women. Its most common cause is hypertension; in
fact, hypertension generally precedes it. The most frequent cause of
hypertension today is the strenuousness of life, the next most frequent
cause being the toxins circulating in the blood from overeating, overdrinking,
overuse of tobacco and the overuse of caffein in the form of coffee, tea
or caffein drinks. Another common cause of arteriosclerosis occurring
too early is the occurrence of some serious infection in a person, typhoid
fever and sepsis being most frequent. Syphilis is a frequent cause,
especially of that form of arteriosclerosis which shows the greatest
amount of disease in the aorta. Mercury used in the treatment of syphilis
is more liable, however, than syphilis to be the cause of arteriosclerosis.
Although this drug, even with the arsenic injections now in vogue, is
necessary for the cure of syphilis, it probably tends to raise the
blood pressure by irritating the kidneys and by diminishing the thyroid
secretion, both of these occurrences predisposing to arteriosclerosis.
From the fact that lead poisoning causes an increased blood pressure,
lead is a probable cause of arteriosclerosis. With the greater knowledge
of the danger of poisoning possessed by those who work in lead, chronic
lead poisoning is becoming rare, as evidenced by the lessening
frequency of wrist drop and lead colic.

Chronic nephritis is often a coincident disease, but the causes of
the arteriosclerosis and the nephritis are generally the same.
Alcohol, except as a part of overeating and as a disturber of the digestion,
is perhaps not a direct cause of arteriosclerosis, as alcohol is a
vasodilator. Hard physical labor and severe athletic work may cause
arteriosclerosis to develop, and it is liable to develop in the
arteries of the parts most used.

Hypertension is generally a prelude to arteriosclerosis, and everything which
tends to increase tension promotes the disease; everything which tends
to diminish tension more or less inhibits the disease. Therefore a
subsecretion of the thyroid predisposes to arteriosclerosis, and increased
secretion of the suprarenals predisposes to arteriosclerosis, the thyroid
furnishing vasodilator substance and the suprarenals vasopressor
substance to the blood.

Furthermore. if these secretions are abnormal, protein metabolism is more
or less disturbed.

While arteriosclerosis often occurs coincidently with gout, and gout
apparently may be a cause of arteriosclerosis, still the two diseases are
widely dissociated, and the causes are not the same.

Although the arterial pressure has been high before arteriosclerosis
developed, and may remain high for some time in the arteries, unless
the heart fails, the distal peripheral pressure, as in the fingers and
toes, may be poor in spite of the high blood pressure. When the
left heart begins to fail, pendent edema readily occurs.

PATHOLOGY
The pathology of arteriosclerosis is a thickening and diminishing elasticity
of the arteries, beginning with the inner coat and gradually spreading and
involving all the coats, the larger arteries often developing calcareous
deposits or thickened cartilaginous plates--an atheroma. If the
thickening of the walls of the smaller vessels advances, their
caliber is diminished, and there may even be complete obstruction
(endarteritis obliterans). On the other hand, some arteries,
especially if the calcareous deposits are considerable, may become
weakened in spots and dilation may occur, causing either smaller
or larger aneurysms.
Histologically the disease is a connective tissue formation beginning
first as a round-cell infiltration in the subendothelial layer of
the intima. This process does not advance homogeneously; one side
of an artery may be more affected than the other, and the lumen may
be narrowed at one side and not at the other, allowing the artery
to expand irregularly from the force of the heart beat. As the
disease continues, the internal elastic layer is lost, the muscular
coat begins to atrophy, and then small calcareous granules may begin
to be deposited, which may form into plates. In the large arteries,
the advance of the process differs somewhat. There may be more
actual inflammatory signs, fatty degeneration may occur, and even
a necrosis may take place.
However generally distributed arteriosclerosis is, in some regions
the disease is more advanced than in others, and in those regions
the most serious symptoms will occur. The regions which can stand
the disease least well are the brain and coronary arteries, and
next perhaps the legs, at the distal parts at least, where the
circulation is always at a disadvantage if the patient is up and
about.

SYMPTOMS
The symptoms are increased tension, which means, sooner or later,
hypertrophy of the left ventricle and an accentuated closure of the
aortic valve. This alone means more and more tendency to aortic
irritation and aortic valve irritation, with inflammation, and later
deposits of calcareous material, perhaps with stiffening of the
aortic valve and narrowing, aortic stenosis being the result. If
such a patient with the disease advanced to this stage must overwork,
or sustains any severe muscle strain, an aneurysm of the aorta may
occur. In the meantime, with the advancing degeneration of the
cerebral arteries, some sudden cerebral congestion, caused by leaning
over, lifting, vomiting or hard coughing, may rupture a cerebral
vessel, and all the symptoms of apoplexy are present. If small
hemorrhages occur in the arterioles of the extremities, of course
the prognosis is not serious. Sometimes some of the smaller vessels
of the brain may become obstructed and cerebral degeneration occur.Carteret himself, and I, and his son, at a little table by, the great
table being full of strangers.  Here my Lady Jem. do promise to come, and
bring my Lord Hinchingbroke and his lady some day this week, to dinner to
me, which I am glad of.  After dinner, I up with her husband, Sir Philip
Carteret, to his closet, where, beyond expectation, I do find many pretty
things, wherein he appears to be ingenious, such as in painting, and
drawing, and making of watches, and such kind of things, above my
expectation; though, when all is done, he is a shirke, who owns his owing
me L10 for his lady two or three years ago, and yet cannot provide to pay
me.  The company by and by parted, and G. Carteret and I to White Hall,
where I set him down and took his coach as far as the Temple, it raining,
and there took a hackney and home, and so had my head combed, and then to
bed.

9th.  Up betimes, and anon with Sir W. Warren, who come to speak with me,
by coach to White Hall, and there met Lord Brouncker: and he and I to the
Commissioners of the Treasury, where I find them mighty kind to me, more,
I think, than was wont.  And here I also met Colvill, the goldsmith; who
tells me, with great joy, how the world upon the 'Change talks of me; and
how several Parliamentmen, viz., Boscawen and Major [Lionel] Walden, of
Huntingdon, who, it seems, do deal with him, do say how bravely I did
speak, and that the House was ready to have given me thanks for it; but
that, I think, is a vanity.  Thence I with Lord Brouncker, and did take up
his mistress, Williams, and so to the 'Change, only to shew myself, and
did a little business there, and so home to dinner, and then to the office
busy till the evening, and then to the Excize Office, where I find Mr.
Ball in a mighty trouble that he is to be put out of his place at
Midsummer, the whole Commission being to cease, and the truth is I think
they are very fair dealing men, all of them.  Here I did do a little
business, and then to rights home, and there dispatched many papers, and
so home late to supper and to bed, being eased of a great many thoughts,
and yet have a great many more to remove as fast as I can, my mind being
burdened with them, having been so much employed upon the public business
of the office in their defence before the Parliament of late, and the
further cases that do attend it.

10th.  Up, and to the office betimes, where all the morning.  At noon home
to dinner with my clerks, and after dinner comes Kate Joyce, who tells me
she is putting off her house, which I am glad of, but it was pleasant that
she come on purpose to me about getting a ticket paid, and in her way
hither lost her ticket, so that she is at a great loss what to do.--There
comes in then Mrs. Mercer, the mother, the first time she has been here
since her daughter lived with us, to see my wife, and after a little talk
I left them and to the office, and thence with Sir D. Gawden to
Westminster Hall, thinking to have attended the Committee about the
Victualling business, but they did not meet, but here we met Sir R.
Brookes, who do mightily cry up my speech the other day, saying my
fellow-officers are obliged to me, as indeed they are.  Thence with Sir D.
Gawden homewards, calling at Lincolne's Inn Fields: but my Lady Jemimah
was not within: and so to Newgate, where he stopped to give directions to
the jaylor about a Knight, one Sir Thomas Halford brought in yesterday for
killing one Colonel Temple, falling out at a taverne. So thence as far as
Leadenhall, and there I 'light, and back by coach to Lincoln's Inn Fields;
but my Lady was not come in, and so I am at a great loss whether she and
her brother Hinchingbroke and sister will dine with me to-morrow or no,
which vexes me.  So home; and there comes Mr. Moore to me, who tells me
that he fears my Lord Sandwich will meet with very great difficulties to
go through about the prizes, it being found that he did give orders for
more than the King's letter do justify; and then for the Act of
Resumption, which he fears will go on, and is designed only to do him
hurt, which troubles me much.  He tells me he believes the Parliament will
not be brought to do anything in matters of religion, but will adhere to
the Bishops.  So he gone, I up to supper, where I find W. Joyce and Harman
come to see us, and there was also Mrs. Mercer and her two daughters, and
here we were as merry as that fellow Joyce could make us with his mad
talking, after the old wont, which tired me.  But I was mightily pleased
with his singing; for the rogue hath a very good eare, and a good voice.
Here he stayed till he was almost drunk, and then away at about ten at
night, and then all broke up, and I to bed.

11th.  Up, and betimes to the office, where busy till 8 o'clock, and then
went forth, and meeting Mr. Colvill, I walked with, him to his building,
where he is building a fine house, where he formerly lived, in Lumbard
Street: and it will be a very fine street.  Thence walked down to the
Three Cranes and there took boat to White Hall, where by direction I
waited on the Duke of York about office business, and so by water to
Westminster, where walking in the Hall most of the morning, and up to my
Lady Jem. in Lincoln's Inn Fields to get her to appoint the day certain
when she will come and dine with me, and she hath appointed Saturday next.
So back to Westminster; and there still walked, till by and by comes Sir
W. Coventry, and with him Mr. Chichly and Mr. Andrew Newport, I to dinner
with them to Mr. Chichly's, in Queene Street, in Covent Garden.  A very
fine house, and a man that lives in mighty great fashion, with all things
in a most extraordinary manner noble and rich about him, and eats in the
French fashion all; and mighty nobly served with his servants, and very
civilly; that I was mighty pleased with it: and good discourse.  He is a
great defender of the Church of England, and against the Act for
Comprehension, which is the work of this day, about which the House is
like to sit till night.  After dinner, away with them back to Westminster,
where, about four o'clock, the House rises, and hath done nothing more in
the business than to put off the debate to this day month.  In the mean
time the King hath put out his proclamations this day, as the House
desired, for the putting in execution the Act against Nonconformists and
Papists, but yet it is conceived that for all this some liberty must be
given, and people will have it.  Here I met with my cozen Roger Pepys, who
is come to town, and hath been told of my performance before the House the
other day, and is mighty proud of it, and Captain Cocke met me here
to-day, and told me that the Speaker says he never heard such a defence
made; in all his life, in the House; and that the Sollicitor-Generall do
commend me even to envy.  I carried cozen Roger as far as the Strand,
where, spying out of the coach Colonel Charles George Cocke, formerly a
very great man, and my father's customer, whom I have carried clothes to,
but now walks like a poor sorry sneake, he stopped, and I 'light to him.
This man knew me, which I would have willingly avoided, so much pride I
had, he being a man of mighty height and authority in his time, but now
signifies nothing.  Thence home, where to the office a while and then
home, where W. Batelier was and played at cards and supped with us, my
eyes being out of order for working, and so to bed.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, at noon home, and
after dinner with wife and Deb., carried them to Unthanke's, and I to
Westminster Hall expecting our being with the Committee this afternoon
about Victualling business, but once more waited in vain.  So after a turn
or two with Lord Brouncker, I took my wife up and left her at the 'Change
while I to Gresham College, there to shew myself; and was there greeted by
Dr. Wilkins, Whistler, and others, as the patron of the Navy Office, and
one that got great fame by my late speech to the Parliament. Here I saw a
great trial of the goodness of a burning glass, made of a new figure, not
spherical (by one Smithys, I think, they call him), that did burn a glove
of my Lord Brouncker's from the heat of a very little fire, which a
burning glass of the old form, or much bigger, could not do, which was
mighty pretty.  S.: Blood Pressure Studies in Tuberculosis at a High Altitude,
Arch. Int. Med., October, 1913, p. 456.] who studied 600 cases of tuberculosis
at an altitude of 6,000 feet, and found the blood pressure was
increased, both in normal and in consumptive individuals.

     They also found that the increase in blood pressure, which kept
     gradually rising up to a certain limit, was indicative that
     the tuberculous patient was not much toxic; therefore the
     increase in blood pressure was of good prognosis.
     
     
     CONDITIONS CAUSING CHANGE IN BLOOD PRESSURE
     Woolley [Footnote: Woolley, P. G.: Factors Governing Vascular
     Dilatation and Slowing of the Blood Stream in Inflammation, THE
     JOURNAL A. M. A., Dec. 26, 1914, p. 2279.] quotes Starling as
     finding that the blood vessels dilate from physical and chemical
     changes in the musculature, and that this dilatation is caused
     by deficient oxidation and accumulation of the products of metabolism,
     including carbon dioxid. This dilatation ordinarily is transient and
     not associated with exudation, but in inflammation the
     dilatation is persistent and there is exudation.

The carbon dioxid increase during exercise stimulates a greater circulation
of oxygen in the tissues which later counteracts the normal increase in
acid products. In inflammatory processes, however, the acid accumulates
too rapidly to allow of saturation. In this case the circulation becomes
slowed and the cells become affected.

Besides these charges in the blood vessels of the muscles, the general
blood pressure becomes raised on exercise, the heart more rapid and
the temperature somewhat elevated, and the breathing is increased. This
increased heart rate does not stop immediately on cessation of the exercise,
but persists for a longer or shorter time. The better trained the individual,
the sooner the speed of the heart becomes normal.

Benedict and Cathcart [Footnote: Benedict and Cathcart: Pub. 77,
Carnegie Institute of Washington.] have found that the increased absorption
of oxygen, showing increased metabolism, persists after exercise as
long as the heart action is increased.

Newburgh and Lawrence [Footnote: Newburgh, L. H., and Lawrence C.
H.: The Effect of Heat on Blood Pressure, Arch. Int. Med., February, 1914,
p. 287.] have found that increased temperature in animals, equal to that
occurring in persons suffering with infection, reduces the blood pressure,
causing a hypotension. This shows that high temperature alone in an individual
sooner or later causes hypotension.

Although prolonged pain may cause a fall of blood pressure from shock,
the first acute pain may cause a rise in blood pressure, and Curschmann
[Footnote: Curschmann: Munchen. med. Wehnschr., Oct. 15, 1907.] found
that the blood pressure was high in the gastro- intestinal crises
of tabes and in colic, and that the application of faradic electricity to
the thigh could raise the blood pressure from 8 to 10 mm. in normal
individuals.

The positive effect of decomposition products in the intestine, more
especially such as come from meat proteins, is well recognized; but
the importance, in high pressure cases, of the absorption of toxins derived
from imperfectly digested food remaining in the bowels over night is
not sufficiently recognized. Patients with high blood pressure should not
eat a heavy evening meal, and especially should they not eat meat. Willson
[Footnote: Willson, R. N.: The Decomposition Food Products as Cardiovascular
Products, THE JOURNAL A. M. A., Sept. 25, 1915, p. 1077.] well describes
the condition caused by the absorption of these toxins. If the heart
muscle is intact, he finds such absorption in high pressure cases will
show diastolic as well as systolic increase:

The vessels pulsate and throb; the skin is pale; the head aches; the
tongue is coated; the breath is foul; vertigo is often distressing;
and not infrequently the hands and feet feel distended and swollen. A
thorough house-cleaning of the gastro-intestinal canal causes the expulsion
of the offending substances and the expulsion of gas, whereupon the blood
pressure often resumes its normal level and the symptoms disappear.

Wilson suggests that not only the meat proteins, but also the oxyphenylethylamin
in overripe cheese may often cause this poisoning; and cheese is
frequently eaten by these people at bedtime. Of course if any particular
fruit or article of food causes intestinal upset in a given individual,
they should be avoided.

When the heart is hypertrophied in disease, the cavities of the ventricles
are probably also generally enlarged, and therefore they propel
more blood at each contraction than in normal persons and thus
increase the blood pressure.

The blood pressure is raised not only by intestinal toxemia and uremia, but
also by lead poisoning and the conditions generally present in
gout.

     It has been pointed out by Daland [Footnote: Daland: Pennsylvania
     Med. Jour., July, 1913.] that nervous exhaustion may raise the blood
     pressure in those who are neurotic, and he finds that this hypertension
     may exist for months in some cases. On the other hand, in
     neurasthenics the blood pressure is generally lowered. As he points
     out, there is often a very great increase in the systolic blood
pressure at the menopause, while the diastolic pressure may not be
high.

This makes a very large pressure pulse. This suggests the possibility of
disturbances of the glands of internal secretion.
This hypertension is generally improved under proper treatment.

Schwarzmann [Footnote: Schwarzmann: Zentralbl. f. inn. Med., Aug. 1,
1914.] studied the blood pressure in eighty cases of acute infection,
and found that a high diastolic blood pressure during such illness indicates
a tendency to paralysis of the abdominal vessels, and hence a sluggish
circulation in the vessels of the abdomen. He found that in seriously
ill patients this high diastolic pressure is of bad prognosis. He also
found that a lower systolic pressure with a lower diastolic pressure is
not a sign that the heart is weakening, but only that the visceral tone
is growing less.
On the other hand, when the diastolic pressure rises while the systolic
falls, this is a sign of failing heart.

     
     Newburgh and Minot [Footnote: Newburgh, L. H. and Minot, G. II:
     The Blood Pressure in Pneumonia, Arch. Int. Med., July, 1914,
     p. 48.] find that the blood pressure course in pneumonia does not
suggest that there is a failure of the vasomotor center.

They found that "low systolic pressures are not invariably of evil omen."
They also found that the systolic pressure in fatal cases is often
higher than in those in which the patients recovered, and they found
that the rate of the pulse is more important in determining the
treatment than the blood pressure measurements.

The work which has been described under this section is of interest as
indicating the newer experimental work on the physiology of blood pressure.
Much of it is new, however, and it is difficult to draw absolute
therapeutic conclusions from the evidence offered.

THE EFFECT OF DRUGS ON BLOOD PRESSURE
Free catharsis is a well established and valuable method of relieving the
heart in many cases of broken compensation, and in cases with high blood
pressure even while compensation is still good, salines administered once
or twice a week assist in elimination, and in the reduction of blood
pressure.

However, profuse purging in heart disease may be followed by unfavorable
symptoms, especially when the systolic blood pressure is low. When there
is hypotension, or when the diastolic pressure is high and the venous
pressure is high, and when there is edema or effusion, watery catharsis
should be caused only after due consideration, and always with a careful
watching of the effect on the heart and blood pressure. The blood pressure
is lowered by such catharsis, and the heart is often slowed. Neilson and
Hyland [Footnote: Neilson, C. H., and Hyland, R. F.: The Effect of Strong
Purging on Blood Pressure and the Heart, THE JOURNAL A. M. A., Feb.
8, 1913, p. 436.] studied the effect of purging on the heart and blood
pressure, and were inclined to the view that in serious heart conditions
brisk purging should not be done. They think that the slowing of the
heart after such purging may be, due to an increased viscosity of the blood,
or perhaps to a reflex irritation from the purgative on the
intestinal canal.

Pilcher and Sollmann [Footnote: Pilcher and Sollmann: Jour.
Pharmacol. and Exper. Therap., 1913, vi, 323.] have shown that the fall
of blood pressure after the administration of nitrites is mostly due to
the action of these drugs on the peripheral vessels.
Chloroform, of course, depressed the vasomotor center, but ether had no
effect on this center, or slightly stimulated it. Such stimulation,
however, Pilcher and Sollmann believe may be secondary to asphyxia. Nicotin
they found to cause intense stimulation of the vasomotor center.
Ergot and hydrastis and its alkaloids seem to have no effect on the vasomotor
center. Strophanthus acted on this center only moderately, and digitalis
very slightly, if at all. Camphor in doses large enough to cause convulsions
stimulated the vasomotor center. In smaller doses it generally stimulated
the center moderately, but not always. Even when this center was
stimulated, however, the camphor did not necessarily increase the blood
pressure.

The rise in blood pressure from epinephrin is due entirely to its action
on the peripheral blood vessels and the heart. It has no action on the
vasomotor center. They found that strychnin in large doses may stimulate
the vasomotor center moderately, but usually it did not act on this center
unless the patient was asphyxiated; then it acted intensely. The conclusion
to be drawn from their experiments is that when there is asphyxia,
increased venous pressure, and also a rising blood pressure from the
stimulation of carbon dioxid, strychnin is contraindicated.

It should be recognized that digitalis very frequently not only does not
raise blood pressure, but also may lower it; especially in aortic insufficiency
and when there is cyanosis. Even with some forms of angina pectoris,
digitalis in small doses may reduce the frequency of the pain. This
decrease of pain following the use of digitalis has in some cases been
ascribed to the improvement of coronary circulation and resulting better
nutrition of heart muscle.
Of course under these conditions the action of digitalis must be carefully
watched, and it should not be given too long.

Although sodium nitrite and nitroglycerin have but a short period of action,
in laboratory experimentation, in lowering the blood pressure, when given
repeatedly four or five times a day the blood pressure is lowered in
very many instances by these drugs. Sometimes when the blood pressure is
not lowered, there is relief of tension in the head from high pressure,
and the patient feels better. There is also relief of the heart when it
is laboring to overcome a high resistance. One drop of the official
spirit of nitroglycerin on the tongue will cause a lowering in the peripheral
pressure pulse, the radial pulse becoming larger and fuller. This
effect begins in three minutes or less, reaches its maximum in about
five minutes, and the effect passes off in fifteen minutes or more. [Footnote:
Hewlett, A.
W., and Zwaluwenburg, J. G. Van: The Pulse Flow in the Brachial Artery, Arch.
Int. Med., July, 1913, p. 1.]
It has been stated that iodids are of no value except in syphilitic
arteriosclerosis, but iodids in small doses are stimulant to the thyroid
gland, and the thyroid secretes a vasodilating substance.
Therefore, the use of either iodids or thyroid would seem to be justified
in many instances of high blood pressure.

     Fairlee [Footnote: Fairlee: Lancet, London, Feb. 28, 1914.] has
     studied the effect of chloroform and ether on blood pressure, and
finds that there is a fall of pressure throughout the administration
of chloroform, and but little alteration of the blood pressure
during the administration of ether.

It may cause a slight rise, or it may cause a slight fall, but changes in
pressure with ether are not marked. When there is slight surgical shock
present, as from some injury, they found that chloroform would lower
the pressure considerably. Hence it would seem that chloroform should
not be used as an anesthetic after serious injuries.

THE EFFECT OF DRUGS ON VENOUS BLOOD PRESSURE

Capps and Matthews [Footnote: Capps, J. A., and Matthews, S. A.:
Venous Blood Pressure as influenced by the Drugs Employed in Cardiovascular
Therapy, THE JOURNAL A. M. A., Aug. 9, 1913, p. 388.] have shown that
even with first class preparations of digitalis, there may be only a
moderate gradual rise in arterial pressure, but not much change in venous
pressure. Venous pressure was not much affected by small doses of
epinephrin, but with large doses it rose from 10 to 80 mm. Pituitary
extract acts somewhat similarly to epinephrin. Caffein, though raising the
arterial pressure, did not influence the venous pressure. Strychnin
did not raise either pressure until the dose was sufficient to cause
muscular contractions. They found that the nitrites caused a fall in
venous pressure as well as arterial pressure, although the heart might be
accelerated and more regular. They think that the nitrites act by depressing
the nerve endings in the veins as well as the arteries.
Morphin they found did not act on the venous pressure, although it lowered
arterial tension, in ordinary doses of 1/8 or 1/6 grain; but with
doses of from 1/4 to 1/2 grain, both arterial and venous pressures were
lowered. They found that alcohol in ordinary doses did not influence the
venous pressure, although it lowered the arterial pressure; but very large
doses lowered the arterial and raised the venous pressure. They think
that when the venous pressure is increased only by large doses of
epinephrin, pituitary extract and alcohol, the effect is due to failure of
the heart, although it may be due to an increase of carbon dioxid in the
blood, in other words, to asphyxia.

HYPERTENSION

Arterial hypertension may be divided into stages. In the first stage the
arteries are healthy, but the tone, owing to contraction of the muscular
walls, is too great. This condition or stage has been termed "chronic
arterial hypertension." This condition may be due to irritants circulating
in the blood, to nervous tension, to incipient chronic interstitial
nephritis, or may be the first stage of sclerosis of the arteries. If
from any cause this hypertension persists, the muscular coats of the arteries
will become more or less hypertrophied, and sooner or later degenerative
changes begin in the intima, and finally fibrosis occurs in the external
coat of the arteries; in other words, arteriosclerosis is in evidence. If
the patient lives with this arteriosclerosis, a later stage of the arterial
disease may occur which has been termed atheroma, with thickening, and
possibly calcareous deposits in some parts of the walls of the vessels,
while in other parts the coats become thinner and insufficient. At this
stage the heart, which has already shown some trouble, becomes unable to
force the blood properly against this enormous resistance of inelastic
vessels and the blood pressure begins to fail as the left ventricle
weakens.

Edema, failing heart, perhaps aneurysms, peripheral obstruction, or hemorrhages
are the final conditions in this chronic disease of arteriosclerosis.

Riesman [Footnote: Riesman: Pennsylvania Med.

     Jour., December, 1911, p. 193.] divides hypertension into four classes
     hypertension without apparent nephritis or arterial disease; hypertension
     with arteriosclerosis; hypertension with nephritis, and hypertension
with both arteriosclerosis and nephritis.

These classes are given here in the order of the seriousness of the
prognosis.

     
     ETIOLOGY
     One of the most common causes of hypertension is clue to excess of
eating and drinking.

The products caused by maldigestion of proteins, and the toxins formed
and absorbed especially from meat proteins, particularly when the
excretions are insufficient, are the most frequent causes of hypertension.
Whatever other element or condition may have caused increased blood
pressure, the first step toward improving and lowering this pressure is
to diminish the amount of meat eaten or to remove it entirely from
the diet.

In pregnancy where there is increased metabolic change, when the proteins
are not well or properly cared for in gout, and when there is intestinal
fermentation or putrefaction, hypertension is likely to occur. The increased
blood pressure in these cases is directly due to irritation of the toxins
on the blood vessel walls.

While alcohol does not tend to raise arterial blood pressure, in large
amounts it may raise the venous pressure. Also, by causing an abundant
appetite and thus increasing the amount of food taken, by interfering
with the activity of the liver, and by impairing the intestinal
digestion, it can indirectly disturb the metabolism and cause enough
toxin to be produced to raise the blood pressure.

Any drug or substance that raises the blood pressure by stimulating the
vasomotor center or the arterioles, when constantly repeated, will be a
cause of hypertension. This is particularly true of caffein and nicotin.
Also, anything that might stimulate, or that does stimulate, the
suprarenal glands will cause a continued high blood pressure. It is
quite probable that in many cases of gout the suprarenals are hypersecreting
and it has been shown by Cannon, Aub and Binger [Footnote: Cannon,
Aub and Binger: Jour. Pharmacol. and Exper. Therap., March, 1912.] that
nicotin in small closes increases the suprarenal secretion. Therefore,
nicotin becomes a decided cause of hypertension and arteriosclerosis.

Thayer found that heavy work is the cause of about two thirds of
all cases of arteriosclerosis, and one of the functions of the
suprarenals is to destroy the waste products of muscular activity;
hence these glands, in these cases, are hypersecreting. Furthermore,
the reason that many infections are followed later by arterio-
sclerosis may be the fact that the suprarenals have been stimulated
to hypertrophy and hypersecrete.
Many persons in middle life, and especially women at the time of
the menopause, show hypertension without arterial or kidney reason.
At this time of life the thyroid is disturbed, and often, especially
if weight is added, it is not secreting sufficiently. Whether, with
the polyglandular disturbance of the menopause the suprarenals are
excited and hypersecreting, or whether they are simply relatively
secreting more vasopressor substance than is combated by the
vasodilator substance from the thyroid, cannot be determined. These
women are energetic, and look full of health and full of strength,
but their faces frequently flush, sometimes they are dizzy, and the
systolic blood pressure is too high. Reisman has pointed out that
these patients are likely to have very large breasts, and there is
reason to believe that we must begin to study more carefully the
effect of large breasts on the metabolism of girls and women. There
certainly is an internal secretion of some importance furnished by
these glands.
In hyperthyroidism at first the blood pressure may be lowered on
account of the increased physiologic secretion of the thyroid
gland.
Later the blood pressure may be raised by stimulation of the
suprarenals, or it may become raised from the irritated and stimulated
heart becoming hypertrophied. If the heart is normal the ventricles
should hypertrophy with the increased work that they are under; and
the blood pressure could increase for this reason. Later in
exophthalmic goiter the heart muscle may become degenerated, a
chronic myocarditis, and the ventricles may slightly dilate. At
this time the blood pressure is lowered. When such a condition has
occurred, the heart bears thyroidectomy badly; hence an operation
on this gland should, if possible, be performed before the heart
muscle has become injured. If the heart shows signs of loss of
power, minor operations to cut off the blood supply of the thyroid
should first be done, and the patient's heart allowed to improve
before a thyroidectomy is performed.
Men with hypertension without kidney or arterial excuse are likely
to have been athletes, or to have done some severe competitive work,
or, as above stated, to have labored hard, or to have worked at
high tension, or in great excitement, or with mental worry, all of
which tend, as long as there is health, to increase the blood
pressure.
These men may add weight from the age of 40 on, or they may be thin
and wiry.Up betimes, and to my Office, where we had a meeting extraordinary
to consider of several things, among others the sum of money fit to be
demanded ready money, to enable us to set out 27 ships, every body being
now in pain for a fleete, and everybody endeavouring to excuse themselves
for the not setting out of one, and our true excuse is lack of money. At
it all the morning, and so at noon home to dinner with my clerks, my wife
and Deb. being busy at work above in her chamber getting things ready and
fine for her going into the country a week or two hence.  I away by coach
to White Hall, where we met to wait on the Duke of York, and, soon as
prayers were done, it being Good Friday, he come to us, and we did a
little business and presented him with our demand of money, and so broke
up, and I thence by coach to Kate Joyce's, being desirous and in pain to
speak with her about the business that I received a letter yesterday, but
had no opportunity of speaking with her about it, company being with her,
so I only invited her to come and dine with me on Sunday next, and so away
home, and for saving my eyes at my chamber all the evening pricking down
some things, and trying some conclusions upon my viall, in order to the
inventing a better theory of musique than hath yet been abroad; and I
think verily I shall do it.  So to supper with my wife, who is in very
good humour with her working, and so am I, and so to bed.  This day at
Court I do hear that Sir W. Pen do command this summer's fleete; and Mr.
Progers of the Bedchamber, as a secret, told me that the Prince Rupert is
troubled at it, and several friends of his have been with him to know the
reason of it; so that he do pity Sir W. Pen, whom he hath great kindness
for, that he should not at any desire of his be put to this service, and
thereby make the Prince his enemy, and contract more envy from other
people.  But I am not a whit sorry if it should be so, first for the
King's sake, that his work will be better done by Sir W. Pen than the
Prince, and next that Pen, who is a false rogue, may be bit a little by
it.

21st.  Up betimes to the office, and there we sat all the morning, at noon
home with my clerks, a good dinner, and then to the Office, and wrote my
letters, and then abroad to do several things, and pay what little scores
I had, and among others to Mrs. Martin's, and there did give 20s. to Mrs.
Cragg, her landlady, who was my Valentine in the house, as well as Doll
Lane .  .  .  .  So home and to the office, there to end my letters, and
so home, where Betty Turner was to see my wife, and she being gone I to my
chamber to read a little again, and then after supper to bed.

22nd (Easter day).  I up, and walked to the Temple, and there got a coach,
and to White Hall, where spoke with several people, and find by all that
Pen is to go to sea this year with this fleete; and they excuse the
Prince's going, by saying it is not a command great enough for him. Here I
met with Brisband, and, after hearing the service at the King's chapel,
where I heard the Bishop of Norwich, Dr. Reynolds, the old presbyterian,
begin a very plain sermon, he and I to the Queen's chapel, and there did
hear the Italians sing; and indeed their musick did appear most admirable
to me, beyond anything of ours: I was never so well satisfied in my life
with it.  So back to White Hall, and there met Mr. Pierce, and adjusted
together how we should spend to-morrow together, and so by coach I home to
dinner, where Kate Joyce was, as I invited her, and had a good dinner,
only she and us; and after dinner she and I alone to talk about her
business, as I designed; and I find her very discreet, and she assures me
she neither do nor will incline to the doing anything towards marriage,
without my advice, and did tell me that she had many offers, and that
Harman and his friends would fain have her; but he is poor, and hath poor
friends, and so it will not be advisable: but that there is another, a
tobacconist, one Holinshed, whom she speaks well of, to be a plain, sober
man, and in good condition, that offers her very well, and submits to me
my examining and inquiring after it, if I see good, which I do like of it,
for it will be best for her to marry, I think, as soon as she can--at
least, to be rid of this house; for the trade will not agree with a young
widow, that is a little handsome, at least ordinary people think her so.
Being well satisfied with her answer, she anon went away, and I to my
closet to make a few more experiments of my notions in musique, and so
then my wife and I to walk in the garden, and then home to supper and to
bed.

23rd.  Up, and after discoursing with my wife about many things touching
this day's dinner, I abroad, and first to the taverne to pay what I owe
there, but missed of seeing the mistress of the house, and there bespoke
wine for dinner, and so away thence, and to Bishopsgate Streete, thinking
to have found a Harpsicon-maker that used to live there before the fire,
but he is gone, and I have a mind forthwith to have a little Harpsicon
made me to confirm and help me in my musique notions, which my head is
now-a-days full of, and I do believe will come to something that is very
good.  Thence to White Hall, expecting to have heard the Bishop of
Lincolne, my friend, preach, for so I understood he would do yesterday,
but was mistaken, and therefore away presently back again, and there find
everything in good order against dinner, and at noon come Mr. Pierce and
she, and Mrs. Manuel, the Jew's wife, and Mrs. Corbet, and Mrs. Pierces
boy and girl.  But we are defeated of Knepp, by her being forced to act
to-day, and also of Harris, which did trouble me, they being my chief
guests.  However, I had an extraordinary good dinner, and the better
because dressed by my own servants, and were mighty merry; and here was
Mr. Pelling by chance come and dined with me; and after sitting long at
dinner, I had a barge ready at Tower-wharfe, to take us in, and so we
went, all of us, up as high as Barne-Elms, a very fine day, and all the
way sang; and Mrs. Manuel sings very finely, and is a mighty discreet,
sober-carriaged woman, that both my wife and I are mightily taken with
her, and sings well, and without importunity or the contrary.  At
Barne-Elms we walked round, and then to the barge again, and had much
merry talk, and good singing; and come before it was dark to the New
Exchange stairs, and there landed, and walked up to Mrs. Pierces, where we
sat awhile, and then up to their dining-room.  And so, having a violin and
theorbo, did fall to dance, here being also Mrs. Floyd come hither, and by
and by Mr. Harris.  But there being so few of us that could dance, and my
wife not being very well, we had not much pleasure in the dancing: there
was Knepp also, by which with much pleasure we did sing a little, and so,
about ten o'clock, I took coach with my wife and Deb., and so home, and
there to bed.

24th.  Up pretty betimes, and so there comes to me Mr. Shish, to desire my
appearing for him to succeed Mr. Christopher Pett, lately dead, in his
place of Master-Shipwright of Deptford and Woolwich, which I do resolve to
promote what I can.  So by and by to White Hall, and there to the Duke of
York's chamber, where I understand it is already resolved by the King and
Duke of York that Shish shall have the place.  From the Duke's chamber Sir
W. Coventry and I to walk in the Matted Gallery; and there, among other
things, he tells me of the wicked design that now is at last contriving
against him, to get a petition presented from people that the money they
have paid to W. Coventry for their places may be repaid them back; and
that this is set on by Temple and Hollis of the Parliament, and, among
other mean people in it, by Captain Tatnell: and he prays me that I will
use some effectual way to sift Tatnell what he do, and who puts him on in
this business, which I do undertake, and will do with all my skill for his
service, being troubled that he is still under this difficulty.  Thence up
and down Westminster by Mrs. Burroughes her mother's shop, thinking to
have seen her, but could not, and therefore back to White Hall, where
great talk of the tumult at the other end of the town, about Moore-fields,
among the 'prentices, taking the liberty of these holydays to pull down
bawdy-houses.

     [It was customary for the apprentices of the metropolis to avail
     themselves of their holidays, especially on Shrove Tuesday, to
     search after women of ill fame, and to confine them during the
     season of Lent.  See a "Satyre against Separatists," 1642.

          "Stand forth, Shrove Tuesday, one a' the silenc'st bricklayers;
          'Tis in your charge to pull down bawdy-houses."

                    Middleton's Inner Temple Masque, 1619,
                         Works, ed.  Bullen, vii., 209.]

And, Lord! to see the apprehensions which this did give to all people at
Court, that presently order was given for all the soldiers, horse and
foot, to be in armes!  and forthwith alarmes were beat by drum and trumpet
through Westminster, and all to their colours, and to horse, as if the
French were coming into the town!  So Creed, whom I met here, and I to
Lincolne's Inn-fields, thinking to have gone into the fields to have seen
the 'prentices; but here we found these fields full of soldiers all in a
body, and my Lord Craven commanding of them, and riding up and down to
give orders, like a madman.  And some young men we saw brought by soldiers
to the Guard at White Hall, and overheard others that stood by say, that
it was only for pulling down the bawdy-houses; and none of the bystanders
finding fault with them, but rather of the soldiers for hindering them.
And we heard a justice of the Peace this morning say to the King, that he
had been endeavouring to suppress this tumult, but could not; and that,
imprisoning some [of them] in the new prison at Clerkenwell, the rest did
come and break open the prison and release them; and that they do give out
that they are for pulling down the bawdy-houses, which is one of the
greatest grievances of the nation.  To which the King made a very poor,
cold, insipid answer: "Why, why do they go to them, then?"  and that was
all, and had no mind to go on with the discourse.  Mr. Creed and I to
dinner to my Lord Crew, where little discourse, there being none but us at
the table, and my Lord and my Lady Jemimah, and so after dinner away,
Creed and I to White Hall, expecting a Committee of Tangier, but come too
late.  So I to attend the Council, and by and by were called in with Lord
Brouncker and Sir W. Pen to advise how to pay away a little money to most
advantage to the men of the yards, to make them dispatch the ships going
out, and there did make a little speech, which was well liked, and after
all it was found most satisfactory to the men, and best for the king's
dispatch, that what money we had should be paid weekly to the men for
their week's work until a greater sum could be got to pay them their
arrears and then discharge them.  But, Lord!  to see what shifts and what
cares and thoughts there was employed in this matter how to do the King's
work and please the men and stop clamours would make a man think the King
should not eat a bit of good meat till he has got money to pay the men,
but I do not see the least print of care or thoughts in him about it at
all.  Having done here, I out and there met Sir Fr. Hollis, who do still
tell me that, above all things in the world, he wishes he had my tongue in
his mouth, meaning since my speech in Parliament.  He took Lord Brouncker
and me down to the guards, he and his company being upon the guards
to-day; and there he did, in a handsome room to that purpose, make us
drink, and did call for his bagpipes, which, with pipes of ebony, tipt
with silver, he did play beyond anything of that kind that ever I heard in
my life; and with great pains he must have obtained it, but with pains
that the instrument do not deserve at all; for, at the best, it is mighty
barbarous musick.  So home and there to my chamber, to prick out my song,
"It is Decreed," intending to have it ready to give Mr. Harris on
Thursday, when we meet, for him to sing, believing that he will do it more
right than a woman that sings better, unless it were Knepp, which I cannot
have opportunity to teach it to.  This evening I come home from White Hall
with Sir W. Pen, who fell in talk about his going to sea this year, and
the difficulties that arise to him by it, by giving offence to the Prince,
and occasioning envy to him, and many other things that make it a bad
matter, at this time of want of money and necessaries, and bad and uneven
counsels at home,--for him to go abroad: and did tell me how much with the
King and Duke of York he had endeavoured to be excused, desiring the
Prince might be satisfied in it, who hath a mind to go; but he tells me
they will not excuse him, and I believe it, and truly do judge it a piece
of bad fortune to W. Pen.

25th.  Up, and walked to White Hall, there to wait on the Duke of York,
which I did: and in his chamber there, first by hearing the Duke of York
call me by my name, my Lord Burlington did come to me, and with great
respect take notice of me and my relation to my Lord Sandwich, and express
great kindness to me; and so to talk of my Lord Sandwich's concernments.
By and by the Duke of York is ready; and I did wait for an opportunity of
speaking my mind to him about Sir J. Minnes, his being unable to do the
King any service, which I think do become me to do in all respects, and
have Sir W. Coventry's concurrence therein, which I therefore will seek a
speedy opportunity to do, come what will come of it.  The Duke of York and
all with him this morning were full of the talk of the 'prentices, who are
not yet [put] down, though the guards and militia of the town have been in
armes all this night, and the night before; and the 'prentices have made
fools of them, sometimes by running from them and flinging stones at them.
Some blood hath been spilt, but a great many houses pulled down; and,
among others, the Duke of York was mighty merry at that of Damaris Page's,
the great bawd of the seamen; and the Duke of York complained merrily that
he hath lost two tenants, by their houses being pulled down, who paid him
for their wine licenses L15 a year.  But here it was said how these idle
fellows have had the confidence to say that they did ill in contenting
themselves in pulling down the little bawdyhouses, and did not go and pull
down the great bawdy-house at White Hall.  And some of them have the last
night had a word among them, and it was "Reformation and Reducement."
This do make the courtiers ill at ease to see this spirit among people,
though they think this matter will not come to much: but it speaks
people's minds; and then they do say that there are men of understanding
among them, that have been of Cromwell's army: but how true that is, I
know not.  Thence walked a little to Westminster, but met with nobody to
spend any time with, and so by coach homeward, and in Seething Lane met
young Mrs. Daniel, and I stopt, and she had been at my house, but found
nobody within, and tells me that she drew me for her Valentine this year,
so I took her into the coach, and was going to the other end of the town,
thinking to have taken her abroad, but remembering that I was to go out
with my wife this afternoon, .  .  .  and so to a milliner at the corner
shop going into Bishopsgate and Leadenhall Street, and there did give her
eight pair of gloves, and so dismissed her, and so I home and to dinner,
and then with my wife to the King's playhouse to see "The Storme," which
we did, but without much pleasure, it being but a mean play compared with
"The Tempest," at the Duke of York's house, though Knepp did act her part
of grief very well.  Thence with my wife and Deb. by coach to Islington,
to the old house, and there eat and drank till it was almost night, and
then home, being in fear of meeting the 'prentices, who are many of them
yet, they say, abroad in the fields, but we got well home, and so I to my
chamber a while, and then to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up betimes to the office, where by and by my Lord Brouncker and I
met and made an end of our business betimes.  So I away with him to Mrs.
Williams's, and there dined, and thence I alone to the Duke of York's
house, to see the new play, called "The Man is the Master," where the
house was, it being not above one o'clock, very full.  But my wife and
Deb. being there before, with Mrs. Pierce and Corbet and Betty Turner,
whom my wife carried with her, they made me room; and there I sat, it
costing me 8s. upon them in oranges, at 6d. a-piece.  By and by the King
come; and we sat just under him, so that I durst not turn my back all the
play.  The play is a translation out of French, and the plot Spanish, but
not anything extraordinary at all in it, though translated by Sir W.
Davenant, and so I found the King and his company did think meanly of it,
though there was here and there something pretty: but the most of the
mirth was sorry, poor stuffe, of eating of sack posset and slabbering
themselves, and mirth fit for clownes; the prologue but poor, and the
epilogue little in it but the extraordinariness of it, it being sung by
Harris and another in the form of a ballet.  Thence, by agreement, we all
of us to the Blue Balls, hard by, whither Mr. Pierce also goes with us,
who met us at the play, and anon comes Manuel, and his wife, and Knepp,
and Harris, who brings with him Mr. Unfortunately, during fever processes,
digitalis in ordinary doses rarely slows the heart; and while it might
slow the heart if given in large doses, it would also cause too powerful
contractions of the ventricles. Digitalis is inadvisable if there is much
endocardial inflammation, and especially if there is supposed or presumed
to be acute myocardial inflammation. If a patient had already valvular
disease from a previous endocarditis, and during this attack insufficiency
of the heart was evidenced by pendent edemas, digitalis Should be administered;
but it probably should not be given to other patients during the acute
period of inflammation.

BATHS
During rheumatism the peripheral blood vessels are generally dilated and
the skin perspires profusely. This is caused not only by the rheumatism,
but also by the salicylates. The surface of the body should be sponged
with cold, lukewarm or hot water, depending on the temperature, especially
of the skin. The cold water will reduce the temperature and tone the
peripheral blood vessels; the hot water, if the temperature is low and the
skin moist and flabby, will cleanse it and also tone the peripheral blood
vessels. If the blood vessels are dilated and the perspiration profuse,
atropin is indicated, both as a cardiac stimulant and contractor of the
blood vessels and as a preventer of too profuse sweating. The dose should
be from 1/200 to 1/100 grain for an adult, given two or three times in
twenty-four hours, depending on its action and the indications. It should
be remembered that atropin is not a sleep-producer; it may stimulate the
cerebrum. Therefore at night it might well be combined with a possible
necessary hypodermic injection of morphin.

STRYCHNIN
The question of the advisability of strychnin is a constant subject for
discussion. Strychnin is overused in the cases of most patients who are
seriously ill. In a patient in whom we are trying to cause nervous and
muscular rest, strychnin is certainly contraindicated.
On the other hand, if the heart is acting sluggishly, the peripheral circulation
is imperfect, and atropin is not acting well, it is advisable to give
strychnin in a dose not too large and not too frequently repeated.
Strychnin should be avoided, if possible, in the evening in order
that the patient may sleep.

Whether it should be given by the mouth or hypodermically would depend
entirely on the seriousness of the condition. Once in six hours is
generally often enough for strychnin to be administered unless the dose
is very small.

ALCOHOL
It is rarely, if ever, advisable to use alcohol. In certain instances,
however, especially in older patients who are accustomed to alcohol, a
little whisky administered several times a day may act only for good,
both as a food and as a peripheral dilator. But it must be remembered that
alcohol is not a cardiac stimulant, and that a large dose will be followed
by more cardiac depression.
Nitroglycerin may act as well as whisky in the kind of cases mentioned.
Caffein stimulation in any form is generally inadvisable during inflammation
of the heart.

PROGNOSIS AND CONVALESCENCE
The duration of acute endocarditis varies greatly; it may be two or
three weeks, or the inflammation may become subacute and last for several
months. Although mild endocarditis rarely causes death of itself, it
may develop into an ulcerative endocarditis, and then be serious per se.
On the other hand, it may add its last quota of disability to a patient
already seriously ill, and death may occur from the combination of
disturbances. As soon as all acute symptoms have ceased, rheumatic or
otherwise, and the temperature is normal, the amount of food should
be increased; the strongly acting drugs should be stopped; the alkalies,
especially, should not be given too long, and the salicylates should be
given only intermittently, if at all; iron should be continued, massage
should be started, and iodid should be administered, best in the form of
the sodium iodid, from 0.1 to 0.2 gm. (1 1/2 to 3 grains), twice in
twenty-four hours, with the belief that it does some good toward
promoting the resorption of the endocardial inflammatory products and can
never do any harm.
Prolonged bed rest must be continued, visitors must still be proscribed,
long conversations must not be allowed, and the return to active mental
and physical life must be most deliberate.

No clinician could state the extent to which the valvular inflammation will
improve or how much disability of the valves must be permanent. It is even
stated by some clinicians that a rest in bed for three months is
advisable. While this is of course excessive, certainly, when the future
health and ability of the patient are under consideration, and
especially when the patient is a child or an adolescent, time is no
object compared with the future welfare of the person's heart. It
is one of the greatest pleasures of a the clinician to note such a
previously inflamed heart gradually diminish in size and the murmurs at
the valves affected gradually disappear. Although they may have disappeared
while the patient is in bed, he is not safe from the occurrence of a
valvular lesion for several months after he is up and about.

While the discussion of hygiene would naturally be confined to the hygiene
of the disease of which the endocarditis is a complication, still the
hygiene of its most frequent cause, rheumatism, should be referred to.
Fresh air and plenty of it, and dry air if possible, is what is needed in
rheumatism, and a shut-up, over-heated and especially a damp room will
continue rheumatism indefinitely. It is almost as serious for rheumatism
as it is for pneumonia. Sunlight and the action of the sun's rays in a
rheumatic patient's bedroom are essential, if possibly obtainable.

As so many rheumatic germs are absorbed from diseased or inflamed
tonsils or from other parts of the mouth and throat, proper gargling or
swashing of the mouth and throat should be continued as much as
possible, even during an endocarditis. The prevention of mouth infections
will be the prevention of rheumatism and of endocarditis.

MALIGNANT ENDOCARDITIS: ULCERATIVE ENDOCARDITIS
Since we have learned that bacteria are probably at the bottom of almost
any endocarditis, the terms suggested under the classification of endocarditis
as "mild" and "malignant" really represent a better understanding of
this disease. They are not separate entities, and a mild endocarditis may
become an ulcerative endocarditis with malignant symptoms. On the other
hand, malignant endocarditis may apparently develop de novo. Still, if
the cause is carefully sought there will generally be found a source of
infection, a septic process somewhere, possibly a gonorrhea, a septic
tonsil or even a pyorrhea alveolaris. Septic uterine disturbances have
long been known to be a source of this disease.
Meningitis, pneumonia, diphtheria, typhoid fever and rarely rheumatism
may all cause this severe form of endocarditis.

Ulcerative endocarditis was first described by Kirkes in 1851, was later
shown to be a distinctive type of endocarditis by Charcot and Virchow,
and finally was thoroughly described by Osler in 1885.

Ulcerative endocarditis was for a long time believed to be inevitably fatal;
it is now known that a small proportion of patients with this disease
recover. Children occasionally suffer from it, but it is generally a
disease of middle adult life. Chorea may bear an apparent causal relation
to it in rare instances.

Ulcerative endocarditis may develop on a mild endocarditis, with disintegration
of tissue and deep points of erosion, and there may be little pockets of
pus or little abscesses in the muscle tissue.
If such a process advances far, of course the prognosis is absolutely dire.
If the ulcerations, though formed, soon begin to heal, especially in
rheumatism, the prognosis may be good, as far as the immediate future
is concerned. If the process becomes septic, or if there is a serious
septic reason for the endocarditis, the outlook is hopeless. This form of
endocarditis is generally accompanied by a bacteremia, and the causative
germs may be recovered from the blood. One of the most frequent is the
Streptococcus viridans.

DIAGNOSIS
If a more malignant form of endocarditis develops on a mild endocarditis,
the diagnosis is generally not difficult. If, without a definite known
septic process, malignant endocarditis develops, localized symptoms
of heart disturbance and cardiac signs may be very indefinite.

If there is no previous disease with fever, the temperature from this
endocarditis is generally intermittent, accompanied by chills, with high
rises of temperature, even with a return to normal temperature at times.
There may be prostration and profuse sweats.
Even without emboli there may be meningeal symptoms: headache, restlessness,
delirium, dislike of light and noise, and stupor; even
convulsions may occur. The urine generally soon shows albumin; there may
be joint pains; the spleen is enlarged and the liver congested.
Some definite cardiac symptoms are soon in evidence, with more or less
progressive cardiac weakness. Occasionally there are no symptoms other
than the cardiac.

Characteristic of this inflammation is the development of ecchymotic
spots on the surface of the body, especially on the feet and lower extremities.
Sooner or later, in most instances of the severe form of this disease,
emboli from the ulcerations in the heart reach the different organs of
the body, and of course the symptoms will depend on the place in which
the emboli locate. If in the abdomen, there are colicky pains with
disturbances, depending on the organs affected; if in the brain, there
may be paralysis, more or less complete. In all infaret occurs in one of
the organs of the body there must of necessity occur a necrosis of the
part and an added focus of infection. If a peripheral artery is plugged,
gangrene of the part will generally occur, if the patient lives long
enough.

TREATMENT
If pneumonia or gonorrhea is supposed to be the cause of the endocarditis,
injections of stock vaccines should perhaps be used.
If the form of sepsis is not determinable, streptococcic or staphylococcic
vaccines might be administered. It is still a question whether such
"shotgun" medication with bacteria is advisable. Patients recover at times
from almost anything, and the interpretation of the success of
such injection treatment is difficult. Exactly how much harm such
injections of unnecessary vaccines can produce in a patient is a question
that has not been definitely decided.

Theoretically an autogenous vaccine is the only vaccine which should be
successful. The vaccine treatment of ulcerative endocarditis was not shown
to be very successful by Dr.
Frank Billings [Footnote: Billings, Frank: Chronic Infectious Endocarditis,
Arch. Int. Med., November, 1909, p. 409.] in his investigation, and
more recent treatment of this disease, when caused by the Streptococcus
viridons, by antogenous vaccines has confirmed his opinion.

Other treatment of malignant endocarditis includes treatment of the
condition which caused it plus treatment of "mild" endocarditis, as
previously described, with meeting of all other indications as they
occur. As in all septic processes, the nutrition must be pushed to the
full extent to which it can be tolerated by the patient, namely, small
amounts of a nutritious, varied diet given at three-hour intervals.

Whether milk or any other substance containing lime makes fibrin deposits
on the ulcerative surfaces more likely or more profuse, and therefore emboli
more liable to occur, is perhaps an undeterminable question. In instances
in which hemorrhages so frequently occur, as they do in this form of
endocarditis, calcium is theoretically of benefit. Quinin has not been shown
to be of value, and salicylic acid is rarely of value unless the cause
is rheumatism.

Alcohol has been used in large doses, as it has been so frequently used
in all septic processes. If the patient is unable to take nourishment
in any amount, small doses of alcohol may be of benefit.

     It is probably of no other value.

     It is doubtful whether ammonium carbonate
     tends to prevent fibrin deposits or clots in the heart,
     as so long supposed. In fact, whenever
     the nutrition is low and the patient is likely
     to have cerebral irritation from acidemia, whenever the
     kidneys are affected, or whenever a disease may tend
     to cause irritation of the brain and
     convulsions, it is doubtful if ammonium carbonate or aromatic
     spirit of ammonia is ever indicated.
     Ammonium compounds have been shown to be a cause of cerebral
     irritation. Salvarsan has not been proved of
     value.
     
     Intestinal antisepsis may be attained more or less successfully
     by the administration
     of yeast or of lactic acid ferments together with suitable diet.

                The nuclein of yeast may be of some value in promoting a leukocytosis.

            It has not been shown, however, that the polymorphonuclear leukocyte
increase caused by nuclein has made phagocytosis more active.

    Malignant endocarditis may prove fatal in a few days, or may continue
 in a slow subacute process for weeks or even months.
                      

                              

                      CHRONIC ENDOCARDITIS

                        It is not easy to decide just whew all acute endocarditis has
entirely subsided and a chronic, slow-going inflammation is
substituted.

                        It would perhaps be better to consider a slow-going inflammatory
process subsequent to acute endocarditis as a subacute endocarditis;
and an infective process may persist in the endocardium, especially
in the region of the valves, for many weeks or perhaps months, with
some fever, occasional chills, gradually increasing valvular lesions
and more or less general debility and systemic symptoms.

                          Such a subacute endocarditis
                                  may
                                  develop insidiously on a previously presumably healed endocardial
lesion and cause symptoms which would not be associated with the
heart, if an examination were not made.

Sometimes such a slow-going inflammatory process will be associated with
irregular and intangible chest pains, with some cough or with many symptoms
referred to the stomach, so that the stomach may be considered the organ
which is at fault. There may be dizziness, headache, feelings of faintness,
sleeplessness, progressive debility and a persistent cough, with some
bronchial irritation and with occasional expectoration of streaks of
blood, which may cause the diagnosis of incipient tuberculosis to be made.
The need of a careful general examination must be emphasized again before
a decision is made as to what ails the patient, or before cough mixtures
are given unnecessarily, quinin is prescribed for supposed malarial
chills, or various diets and digestants are recommended for a supposed
gastric disturbance.

The term "chronic endocarditis" should be reserved for a slowly developing
sclerosis of the vavles. This may occur in a previous rheumatic heart
and in a heart which has suffered endocarditis and has valvular lesions,
or it may occur from valvular strain or heart strain from various causes;
it is typically a part of the arteriosclerotic process of age, and is then
mostly manifested at the aortic valve.

ETIOLOGY
Rheumatism is the cause of most instances of cardiac disease which date
back to childhood or youth, while arteriosclerosis and chronic
infection cause most cardiac diseases in the adult.

     In the former case it is the mitral valve which is the most
     frequently
                    affected, while in the latter it is the aortic valve.

Any cause which tends to induce arteriosclerosis may be a cause of chronic
endocarditis, such as gout, syphilis, chronic nephritis, alcoholism, excessive
use of tobacco, excessive muscular labor and hard athletic work.

Lead is also another, now rather infrequent, cause. Severe infections may
tend to make not only an arteriosclerosis occur early in life, but also
a chronic endocarditis. Heart strain may also be a cause of chronic
endocarditis, especially at the aortic valve. Forced marches of soldiers,
competitive athletic feats, and occupations which call for repeated hard
physical strain may all cause aortic valve disease. Tobacco, besides
increasing the blood tension and thus perhaps injuring the aortic valve,
may weaken the heart muscle and cause disturbance and irritation and perhaps
inflammation of the mitral valve.

There is no age which is exempt from valvular disease, but the age
determines the valve most liable to be affected. If endocarditis
occurs in the fetus, it is the right side of the heart that is affected;
in children and during adolescence it is most frequently the mitral valve
that is involved; while in the adult or in old age it is the aortic valve
that is most liable to become diseased.
Statistics have shown that the valves of the left side of the heart are
diseased nearly twenty times as frequently as those of the right side of
the heart. They also show that the mitral valve is diseased more than one
and one-half times as frequently as the aortic valve.
Early in life probably the two sexes are equally affected with valvular
disease, with perhaps a slight preponderance among females, because of
their greater tendency to chorea. Females also show a greater frequency to
mitral stenosis than do males. Aortic disease, on the other hand, from
the very fact of their strenuous life and occupations, is nearly three
times more frequent in men than in women.

PATHOLOGY
If a chronic endocarditis has followed an acute condition, some slight
permanent papillomas or warty growths may he left from the healed granulating
or ulcerated surfaces. Sometimes these little elevations on the valves
become inflamed and then adhere together, or adhere to the wall of the
heart, and thus incapacitate a valve.
Sometimes these excrescences undergo partial fatty degeneration, or may
take on calcareous changes and thus stiffen a valve.

If the chronic inflammation is not superimposed on an acute endocarditis
there may be no cell infiltration and therefore no softening, but there
is a tendency to develop a fibrillated structure, and a fibroid thickening
of the endocardium occurs, especially around the valves. This induration
causes contraction and narrowing of the orifices with shortening and
thickening of the chordae tendineae, and the valves imperfectly open, or
no longer close. Fatty degeneration may occur in the papillary growths
with necrotic changes, and this may lead to the formation of atheromatous
ulcers which may later become covered with lime deposits, and then a
hard calcareous ring may form. Fibrin readily deposits on this calcareous
substance and may form a permanent capping, or may slowly disintegrate
and allow fragments to fly off into the blood stream and cause more
or less serious embolic obstruction.

If this chronic endocarditis develops with a general arteriosclerosis, the
wine inflammation soon occurs in the aorta, and, following the endarteritis
in the aorta, atheromatous deposits may also occur there. Chronic endocarditis
of the walls of the heart, not in immediate continuity with endocarditis
of the valves, is perhaps not liable to occur, except with
myocarditis.

TREATMENT
A subacute or a chronic infective endocarditis should be treated
on the same plan as an acute endocarditis, which means rest in bed
and whatever medication seems advisable, depending on the supposed
cause of the condition.
A chronic endocarditis which is part of a general arteriosclerosis
requires no special treatment except that directed toward preventing
the advance of the general disease.
CHRONIC DISEASES OF THE VALVES 
PATHOLOGIC PHYSIOLOGY
The development of permanent injury to one or more valves of the
heart may have been watched by the physician who cares for a patient
with acute endocarditis, or it may have been noted early during the
progress of arteriosclerosis or other conditions of hypertension.
On the other hand, many instances of valvular lesions may be found
during a life-insurance examination, or are discovered by the
physician making a general physical examination for an indefinable
general disturbance or for local symptoms. without the patient ever
having known that he had a damaged heart. The previous history of
such a patient will generally disclose the pathologic cause or the
physical excuse.
As soon as a valve has become injured the heart muscle hypertrophies
to force the blood through a narrowed orifice or to evacuate the
blood coming into a compartment of the heart from two directions
instead of one, as occurs in regurgitation or insufficiency of a
valve. The heart muscle becomes hypertrophied, like any other muscle
which is compelled to do extra work. Which part or parts of the
heart will become most enlarged depends on the particular valvular
lesion. In some instances this enlargement is enormous, increasing
a heart which normally weighs from 10 to 12 ounces to a weight of
20 or even 25 ounces, and extreme weights of from 40 to 50 ounces
and even more are recorded.
As long as the heart remains in this hypertrophied condition, which
may be called normal hypertrophy since it is needed for the work
which has to be done in overcoming the defect in the valve, there
are no symptoms, the pulmonary and systemic circulation is sufficient,
and the patient does not know that he is incapacitated.
Sooner or later, however, the nutrition of the heart, especially
in atheromatous conditions, becomes impaired, and the lack of a
proper blood supply to the heart muscle causes myocardial disturbance,
either a chronic myocarditis or fatty degeneration. If there is no
atheromatous condition of the coronary arteries, and arterial disease
is not a cause of the valvular lesion, compensation may be broken
by some sudden extra strain put on the heart, either muscular or
by some acute sickness or a necessary anesthetic and operation.
From any of these causes the muscle again becomes impaired, and the
heart, especially the part which is the weakest and has the most
work to do relatively to its strength, becomes dilated, compensation
is broken, and all of the various circulatory disturbances resulting
from an insufficient heart strength develop.
PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED
As long as compensation is complete, there are no medication and
physical treatment necessary for the damaged heart. The patient,
however, should be told of his disability, and restrictions in his
habits and life should be urged on him. The most important are that
all strenuous physical exercise should be interdicted; competitive
athletics should be absolutely prohibited; prolonged muscular effort
must never be attempted, whether running, rowing, wrestling, bicycle
riding, carrying a heavy weight upstairs or overlifting in any form.After dinner by water from the Tower to White Hall, there to attend the
Duke of York as usual, and particularly in a fresh complaint the
Commissioners of the Treasury do make to him, and by and by to the Council
this day of our having prepared certificates on the Exchequer to the
further sum of near L50,000, and soon as we had done with the Duke of York
we did attend the Council; and were there called in, and did hear Mr.
Sollicitor [General] make his Report to the Council in the business; which
he did in a most excellent manner of words, but most cruelly severe
against us, and so were some of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury,
as men guilty of a practice with the tradesmen, to the King's prejudice. I
was unwilling to enter into a contest with them; but took advantage of two
or three words last spoke, and brought it to a short issue in good words,
that if we had the King's order to hold our hands, we would, which did end
the matter: and they all resolved we should have it, and so it ended: and
so we away; I vexed that I did not speak more in a cause so fit to be
spoke in, and wherein we had so much advantage; but perhaps I might have
provoked the Sollicitor and the Commissioners of the Treasury, and
therefore, since, I am not sorry that I forbore.  Thence my Lord Brouncker
and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw the latter part of
"The Master and the Man," and thence by coach to Duck Lane, to look out
for Marsanne, in French, a man that has wrote well of musique, but it is
not to be had, but I have given order for its being sent for over, and I
did here buy Des Cartes his little treatise of musique, and so home, and
there to read a little, and eat a little, though I find that my having so
little taste do make me so far neglect eating that, unless company invite,
I do not love to spend time upon eating, and so bring emptiness and the
Cholique.  So to bed.  This day I hear that Prince Rupert and Holmes do go
to sea: and by this there is a seeming friendship and peace among our
great seamen; but the devil a bit is there any love among them, or can be.

4th.  Up betimes, and by coach towards White Hall, and took Aldgate Street
in my way, and there called upon one Hayward, that makes virginalls, and
did there like of a little espinette, and will have him finish it for me;
for I had a mind to a small harpsichon, but this takes up less room, and
will do my business as to finding out of chords, and I am very well
pleased that I have found it.  Thence to White Hall, and after long
waiting did get a small running Committee of Tangier, where I staid but
little, and little done but the correcting two or three egregious faults
in the Charter for Tangier after it had so long lain before the Council
and been passed there and drawn up by the Atturney Generall, so slightly
are all things in this age done.  Thence home to the office by water,
where we sat till noon, and then I moved we might go to the Duke of York
and the King presently to get out their order in writing that was ordered
us yesterday about the business of certificates, that we might be secure
against the tradesmen who (Sir John Banks by name) have told me this day
that they will complain in Parliament against us for denying to do them
right.  So we rose of a sudden, being mighty sensible of this
inconvenience we are liable to should we delay to give them longer, and
yet have no order for our indemnity.  I did dine with Sir W. Pen, where my
Lady Batten did come with desire of meeting me there, and speaking with me
about the business of the L500 we demand of her for the Chest.  She do
protest, before God, she never did see the account, but that it was as her
husband in his life-time made it, and he did often declare to her his
expecting L500, and that we could not deny it him for his pains in that
business, and that he hath left her worth nothing of his own in the world,
and that therefore she could pay nothing of it, come what will come, but
that he hath left her a beggar, which I am sorry truly for, though it is a
just judgment upon people that do live so much beyond themselves in
housekeeping and vanity, as they did.  I did give her little answer, but
generally words that might not trouble her, and so to dinner, and after
dinner Sir W. Pen and I away by water to White Hall, and there did attend
the Duke of York, and he did carry us to the King's lodgings: but he was
asleep in his closet; so we stayed in the Green-Roome, where the Duke of
York did tell us what rules he had, of knowing the weather, and did now
tell us we should have rain before to-morrow, it having been a dry season
for some time, and so it did rain all night almost; and pretty rules he
hath, and told Brouncker and me some of them, which were such as no reason
seems ready to be given.  By and by the King comes out, and he did easily
agree to what we moved, and would have the Commissioners of the Navy to
meet us with him to-morrow morning: and then to talk of other things;
about the Quakers not swearing, and how they do swear in the business of a
late election of a Knight of the Shire of Hartfordshire in behalf of one
they have a mind to have; and how my Lord of Pembroke says he hath heard
him (the Quaker) at the tennis-court swear to himself when he loses: and
told us what pretty notions my Lord Pembroke hath of the first chapter of
Genesis, how Adam's sin was not the sucking (which he did before) but the
swallowing of the apple, by which the contrary elements begun to work in
him, and to stir up these passions, and a great deal of such fooleries,
which the King made mighty mockery at.  Thence my Lord Brouncker and I
into the Park in his coach, and there took a great deal of ayre, saving
that it was mighty dusty, and so a little unpleasant.  Thence to Common
Garden with my Lord, and there I took a hackney and home, and after having
done a few letters at the office, I home to a little supper and so to bed,
my eyes being every day more and more weak and apt to be tired.

5th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, and there to the writing fair
some of my late musique notions, and so to church, where I have not been a
good while, and thence home, and dined at home, with W. Hewer with me; and
after dinner, he and I a great deal of good talk touching this Office, how
it is spoiled by having so many persons in it, and so much work that is
not made the work of any one man, but of all, and so is never done; and
that the best way to have it well done, were to have the whole trust in
one, as myself, to set whom I pleased to work in the several businesses of
the Office, and me to be accountable for the whole, and that would do it,
as I would find instruments: but this is not to be compassed; but
something I am resolved to do about Sir J. Minnes before it be long.  Then
to my chamber again, to my musique, and so to church; and then home, and
thither comes Captain Silas Taylor to me, the Storekeeper of Harwich,
where much talk, and most of it against Captain Deane, whom I do believe
to be a high, proud fellow; but he is an active man, and able in his way,
and so I love him.  He gone, I to my musique again, and to read a little,
and to sing with Mr. Pelling, who come to see me, and so spent the
evening, and then to supper and to bed.  I hear that eight of the
ringleaders in the late tumults of the 'prentices at Easter are condemned
to die.

     [Four were executed on May 9th, namely, Thomas Limmerick, Edward
     Cotton, Peter Massenger, and Richard Beasley.  They were drawn,
     hanged, and quartered at Tyburn, and two of their heads fixed upon
     London Bridge ("The London Gazette," No. 259).  See "The Tryals of
     such persons as under the notion of London Apprentices were
     tumultuously assembled in Moore Fields, under colour of pulling down
     bawdy-houses," 4to., London, 1668.  "It is to be observed," says
     "The London Gazette,"  "to the just vindication of the City, that
     none of the persons apprehended upon the said tumult were found to
     be apprentices, as was given out, but some idle persons, many of
     them nursed in the late Rebellion, too readily embracing any
     opportunity of making their own advantages to the disturbance of the
     peace, and injury of others."]

6th.  Betimes I to Alderman Backewell, and with him to my Lord Ashly's,
where did a little business about Tangier, and to talk about the business
of certificates, wherein, contrary to what could be believed, the King and
Duke of York themselves, in my absence, did call for some of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, and give them directions about the business
[of the certificates], which I, despairing to do any thing on a Sunday,
and not thinking that they would think of it themselves, did rest
satisfied, and stayed at home all yesterday, leaving it to do something in
this day; but I find that the King and Duke of York had been so pressing
in it, that my Lord Ashly was more forward with the doing of it this day,
than I could have been.  And so I to White Hall with Alderman Backewell in
his coach, with Mr. Blany; my Lord's Secretary: and there did draw up a
rough draught of what order I would have, and did carry it in, and had it
read twice and approved of, before my Lord Ashly and three more of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, and then went up to the Council-chamber,
where the Duke of York, and Prince Rupert, and the rest of the Committee
of the Navy were sitting: and I did get some of them to read it there: and
they would have had it passed presently, but Sir John Nicholas desired
they would first have it approved by a full Council: and, therefore, a
Council Extraordinary was readily summoned against the afternoon, and the
Duke of York run presently to the King, as if now they were really set to
mind their business, which God grant!  So I thence to Westminster, and
walked in the Hall and up and down, the House being called over to-day,
and little news, but some talk as if the agreement between France and
Spain were like to be, which would be bad for us, and at noon with Sir
Herbert Price to Mr. George Montagu's to dinner, being invited by him in
the hall, and there mightily made of, even to great trouble to me to be so
commended before my face, with that flattery and importunity, that I was
quite troubled with it.  Yet he is a fine gentleman, truly, and his lady a
fine woman; and, among many sons that I saw there, there was a little
daughter that is mighty pretty, of which he is infinite fond: and, after
dinner, did make her play on the gittar and sing, which she did mighty
prettily, and seems to have a mighty musical soul, keeping time with most
excellent spirit.  Here I met with Mr. Brownlow, my old schoolfellow, who
come thither, I suppose, as a suitor to one of the young ladies that were
there, and a sober man he seems to be.  But here Mr. Montagu did tell me
how Mr. Vaughan, in that very room, did say that I was a great man, and
had great understanding, and I know not what, which, I confess, I was a
little proud of, if I may believe him.  Here I do hear, as a great secret,
that the King, and Duke of York and Duchesse, and my Lady Castlemayne, are
now all agreed in a strict league, and all things like to go very current,
and that it is not impossible to have my Lord Clarendon, in time, here
again.  But I do hear that my Lady Castlemayne is horribly vexed at the
late libell,

     ["The Poor Whores' Petition to the most splendid, illustrious,
     serene and eminent Lady of Pleasure the Countess of Castlemayne,
     &c., signed by us, Madam Cresswell and Damaris Page, this present
     25th day of March, 1668."  This sham petition occasioned a pretended
     answer, entitled, "The Gracious Answer of the Most Illustrious Lady
     of Pleasure, the Countess of Castlem .  .  .  .  to the Poor Whores'
     Petition."  It is signed, "Given at our Closset, in King Street,
     Westminster, die Veneris, April 24, 1668.  Castlem .  .  .  ."
     Compare Evelyn, April 2nd, 1668.]

the petition of the poor whores about the town, whose houses were pulled
down the other day.  I have got one of them, but it is not very witty, but
devilish severe against her and the King and I wonder how it durst be
printed and spread abroad, which shews that the times are loose, and come
to a great disregard of the King, or Court, or Government.  Thence I to
White Hall to attend the Council, and when the Council rose we find my
order mightily enlarged by the Sollicitor Generall, who was called
thither, making it more safe for him and the Council, but their order is
the same in the command of it that I drew, and will I think defend us
well.  So thence, meeting Creed, he and I to the new Cocke-pitt by the
King's gate, and there saw the manner of it, and the mixed rabble of
people that come thither; and saw two battles of cocks, wherein is no
great sport, but only to consider how these creatures, without any
provocation, do fight and kill one another, and aim only at one another's
heads, and by their good will not leave till one of them be killed; and
thence to the Park in a hackney coach, so would not go into the tour, but
round about the Park, and to the House, and there at the door eat and
drank; whither come my Lady Kerneagy, of whom Creed tells me more
particulars; how her Lord, finding her and the Duke of York at the King's
first coming in too kind, did get it out of her that he did dishonour him,
and so bid her continue .  .  .  , which is the most pernicious and full
piece of revenge that ever I heard of; and he at this day owns it with
great glory, and looks upon the Duke of York and the world with great
content in the ampleness of his revenge.  Thence (where the place was now
by the last night's rain very pleasant, and no dust) to White Hall, and
set Creed down, and I home and to my chamber, and there about my musique
notions again, wherein I take delight and find great satisfaction in them,
and so, after a little supper, to bed.  This day, in the afternoon,
stepping with the Duke of York into St. James's Park, it rained: and I was
forced to lend the Duke of York my cloak, which he wore through the Park.

7th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, where great hurry to be made
in the fitting forth of this present little fleet, but so many rubs by
reason of want of money, and people's not believing us in cases where we
had money unless (which in several cases, as in hiring of vessels, cannot
be) they be paid beforehand, that every thing goes backward instead of
forward.  At noon comes Mr. Clerke, my solicitor, and the Auditor's men
with my account drawn up in the Exchequer way with their queries, which
are neither many nor great, or hard to answer upon it, and so dined with
me, and then I by coach to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The
English Monsieur;"' sitting for privacy sake in an upper box: the play
hath much mirth in it as to that particular humour.  After the play done,
I down to Knipp, and did stay her undressing herself; and there saw the
several players, men and women go by; and pretty to see how strange they
are all, one to another, after the play is done.  Here I saw a wonderful
pretty maid of her own, that come to undress her, and one so pretty that
she says she intends not to keep her, for fear of her being undone in her
service, by coming to the playhouse.  Here I hear Sir W. Davenant is just
now dead; and so who will succeed him in the mastership of the house is
not yet known.  The eldest Davenport is, it seems, gone from this house to
be kept by somebody; which I am glad of, she being a very bad actor. I
took her then up into a coach and away to the Park, which is now very fine
after some rain, but the company was going away most, and so I took her to
the Lodge, and there treated her and had a deal of good talk, and now and
then did baiser la, and that was all, and that as much or more than I had
much mind to because of her paint.  She tells me mighty news, that my Lady
Castlemayne is mightily in love with Hart of their house: and he is much
with her in private, and she goes to him, and do give him many presents;
and that the thing is most certain, and Becke Marshall only privy to it,
and the means of bringing them together, which is a very odd thing; and by
this means she is even with the King's love to Mrs. Davis.  This done, I
carried her and set her down at Mrs. Manuel's, but stayed not there
myself, nor went in; but straight home, and there to my letters, and so
home to bed.

8th.  Up, and at my office all the morning, doing business, and then at
noon home to dinner all alone.  Then to White Hall with Sir J. Minnes in
his coach to attend the Duke of York upon our usual business, which was
this day but little, and thence with Lord Brouncker to the Duke of York's
playhouse, where we saw "The Unfortunate Lovers," no extraordinary play,
methinks, and thence I to Drumbleby's, and there did talk a great deal
about pipes; and did buy a recorder, which I do intend to learn to play
on, the sound of it being, of all sounds in the world, most pleasing to
me.  Thence home, and to visit Mrs. Turner, where among other talk, Mr.
Foly and her husband being there, she did tell me of young Captain
Holmes's marrying of Pegg Lowther last Saturday by stealth, which I was
sorry for, he being an idle rascal, and proud, and worth little, I doubt;
and she a mighty pretty, well-disposed lady, and good fortune.  Her mother
and friends take on mightily; but the sport is, Sir Robert Holmes do seem
to be mad too with his brother, and will disinherit him, saying that he
hath ruined himself, marrying below himself, and to his disadvantage;
whereas, I said, in this company, that I had married a sister lately, with
little above half that portion, that he should have kissed her breech
before he should have had her, which, if R. Holmes should hear, would make
a great quarrel; but it is true I am heartily sorry for the poor girl that
is undone by it.  So home to my chamber, to be fingering of my Recorder,
and getting of the scale of musique without book, which I at last see is
necessary for a man that would understand musique, as it is now taught to
understand, though it be a ridiculous and troublesome way, and I know I
shall be able hereafter to show the world a simpler way; but, like the old
hypotheses in philosophy, it must be learned, though a man knows a better.
Then to supper, and to bed.  This morning Mr. Christopher Pett's widow and
daughter come to me, to desire my help to the King and Duke of York, and I
did promise, and do pity her.

9th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning sitting, then at noon
home to dinner with my people, and so to the office again writing of my
letters, and then abroad to my bookseller's, and up and down to the Duke
of York's playhouse, there to see, which I did, Sir W. Davenant's corpse
carried out towards Westminster, there to be buried.  Here were many
coaches and six horses, and many hacknies, that made it look, methought,
as if it were the buriall of a poor poet.  He seemed to have many
children, by five or six in the first mourning-coach, all boys.  And there
I left them coming forth, and I to the New Exchange, there to meet Mrs.
Burroughs, and did take her in a carosse and carry elle towards the Park,
kissing her .  .  .  , but did not go into any house, but come back and
set her down at White Hall, and did give her wrapt in paper for my
Valentine's gift for the last year before this, which I never did yet give
her anything for, twelve half-crowns, and so back home and there to my
office, where come a packet from the Downes from my brother Balty, who,
with Harman, is arrived there, of which this day come the first news.  And
now the Parliament will be satisfied, I suppose, about the business they
have so long desired between Brouncker and Harman about not prosecuting
the first victory.  Balty is very well, and I hope hath performed his work
well, that I may get him into future employment.  I wrote to him this
night, and so home, and there to the perfecting my getting the scale of
musique without book, which I have done to perfection backward and
forward, and so to supper and to bed.

10th (Friday) All the morning at Office.  At noon with W. Pen to Duke of
York, and attended Council.  So to piper and Duck Lane, and there kissed
bookseller's wife, and bought Legend.  So home, coach.  Sailor.  Mrs.
Hannam dead.  News of Peace.  Conning my gamut.

     [The entries from April 10th to April 19th are transcribed from
     three leaves (six pages) of rough notes, which are inserted in the
     MS. The rough notes were made to serve for a sort of account book,
     but the amounts paid are often not registered in the fair copy when
     he came to transcribe his notes into the Diary.]

12th (Sunday).  Dined at Brouncker's, and saw the new book.  Peace.
Cutting away sails.

13th (Monday).  Spent at Michel's 6d.; in the Folly, 1s.;

     [The Folly was a floating house of entertainment on the Thames,
     which at this time was a fashionable resort.]

oysters, 1s.; coach to W. Coventry about Mrs. Pett, 1s.; thence to
Commissioners of Treasury, and so to Westminster Hall by water, 6d.  With
G. Montagu and Roger Pepys, and spoke with Birch and Vaughan, all in
trouble about the prize business.  So to Lord Crew's (calling for a low
pipe by the way), where Creed and G. M. and G. C. come, 1s.  So with Creed
to a play.  Little laugh, 4s.  Thence towards the Park by coach, 2s. 6d.
Come home, met with order of Commissioners of Accounts, which put together
with the rest vexed me, and so home to supper and to bed.

14th (Tuesday).  Up betimes by water to the Temple.  In the way read the
Narrative about prizes; and so to Lord Crew's bedside, and then to
Westminster, where I hear Pen is, and sent for by messenger last night.
Thence to Commissioners of Accounts and there examined, and so back to
Westminster Hall, where all the talk of committing all to the Tower, and
Creed and I to the Quaker's, dined together.  Thence to the House, where
rose about four o'clock; and, with much ado, Pen got to Thursday to bring
in his answer; so my Lord escapes to-day.  Thence with Godage and G.
Montagu to G. Carteret's, and there sat their dinner-time: and hear
myself, by many Parliament-men, mightily commended.  Thence to a play,
"Love's Cruelty," and so to my Lord Crew's, who glad of this day's time
got, and so home, and there office, and then home to supper and to bed, my
eyes being the better upon leaving drinking at night.  Water, 1s. Porter,
6d.  Water, 6d.  Dinner, 3s. 6d.  Play part, 2s.  Oranges, 1s. Home coach,
1s. 6d.

15th.  After playing a little upon my new little flageolet, that is so
soft that pleases me mightily, betimes to my office, where most of the
morning.  Then by coach, 1s., and meeting Lord Brouncker, 'light at the
Exchange, and thence by water to White Hall, 1s., and there to the Chapel,
expecting wind musick and to the Harp-and-Ball, and drank all alone, 2d.
Back, and to the fiddling concert, and heard a practice mighty good of
Grebus, and thence to Westminster Hall, where all cry out that the House
will be severe with Pen; but do hope well concerning the buyers, that we
shall have no difficulty, which God grant!  Here met Creed, and, about
noon, he and I, and Sir P. Neale to the Quaker's, and there dined with a
silly Executor of Bishop Juxon's, and cozen Roger Pepys.  Business of
money goes on slowly in the House.  Thence to White Hall by water, and
there with the Duke of York a little, but stayed not, but saw him and his
lady at his little pretty chapel, where I never was before: but silly
devotion, God knows!  Thence I left Creed, and to the King's playhouse,
into a corner of the 18d. box, and there saw "The Maid's Tragedy," a good
play.  Coach, 1s.: play and oranges, 2s. 6d. Creed come, dropping
presently here, but he did not see me, and come to the same place, nor
would I be seen by him.  Thence to my Lord Crew's, and there he come also
after, and there with Sir T. Crew bemoaning my Lord's folly in leaving his
old interest, by which he hath now lost all. An ill discourse in the
morning of my Lord's being killed, but this evening Godolphin tells us
here that my Lord is well.  Thence with Creed to the Cock ale-house, and
there spent 6d., and so by coach home, 2s. 6d., and so to bed.

16th.  Th[ursday].  Greeting's book, is.  Begun this day to learn the
Recorder.  To the office, where all the morning.  Dined with my clerks:
and merry at Sir W. Pen's crying yesterday, as they say, to the King, that
he was his martyr.  So to White Hall by coach to Commissioners of [the]
Treasury about certificates, but they met not, 2s.  To Westminster by
water.  To Westminster Hall, where I hear W. Pen is ordered to be
impeached, 6d.  There spoke with many, and particularly with G. Montagu:
and went with him and Creed to his house, where he told how W. Pen hath
been severe to Lord Sandwich; but the Coventrys both labouring to save
him, by laying it on Lord Sandwich, which our friends cry out upon, and I
am silent, but do believe they did it as the only way to save him.  It
could not be carried to commit him.  It is thought the House do coole: W.
Coventry's being for him, provoked Sir R. Howard and his party; Court, all
for W. Pen.  Thence to White Hall, but no meeting of the Commissioners,
and there met Mr. Hunt, and thence to Mrs. Martin's, and, there did what I
would, she troubled for want of employ for her husband, spent on her 1s.
Thence to the Hall to walk awhile and ribbon, spent is. So [to] Lord
Crew's, and there with G. Carteret and my Lord to talk, and they look upon
our matters much the better, and by this and that time is got, 1s.  So to
the Temple late, and by water, by moonshine, home, 1s. Cooks, 6d.  Wrote
my letters to my Lady Sandwich, and so home, where displeased to have my
maid bring her brother, a countryman, to lye there, and so to bed.

17th (Friday).  Called up by Balty's coming, who gives me a good account
of his voyage, and pleases me well, and I hope hath got something.  This
morning paid the Royall Society L1 6s., and so to the office all the
morning.  At noon home to dinner with my people, and there much pretty
discourse of Balty's.  So by coach to White Hall: the coachman on Ludgate
Hill 'lighted, and beat a fellow with a sword, 2s. 6d.  Did little
business with the Duke of York.  Hear that the House is upon the business
of Harman, who, they say, takes all on himself.  Thence, with Brouncker,
to the King's house, and saw "The Surprizall," where base singing, only
Knepp,' who come, after her song in the clouds, to me in the pit, and
there, oranges, 2s.  After the play, she, and I, and Rolt, by coach, 6s.
6d., to Kensington, and there to the Grotto, and had admirable pleasure
with their singing, and fine ladies listening to us: with infinite
pleasure, I enjoyed myself: so to the tavern there, and did spend 16s.
6d., and the gardener 2s.  Mighty merry, and sang all the way to the town,
a most pleasant evening, moonshine, and set them at her house in Covent
Garden, and I home and to bed.

18th (Saturday).  Up, and my bookseller brought home books, bound--the
binding comes to 17s.  Advanced to my maid Bridget L1.  Sir W. Pen at the
Office, seemingly merry.  Do hear this morning that Harman is committed by
the Parliament last night, the day he come up, which is hard; but he took
all upon himself first, and then when a witness come in to say otherwise,
he would have retracted; and the House took it so ill, they would commit
him.  Thence home to dinner with my clerks, and so to White Hall by water,
1s., and there a short Committee for Tangier, and so I to the King's
playhouse, 1s., and to the play of the "Duke of Lerma," 2s. 6d., and
oranges, 1s.  Thence by coach to Westminster, 1s., and the House just up,
having been about money business, 1s.  So home by coach, 3s., calling in
Duck Lane, and did get Des Cartes' Musique in English,' and so home and
wrote my letters, and then to my chamber to save my eyes, and to bed.

19th (Sunday).  Lay long.  Roger Pepys and his son come, and to Church
with me, where W. Pen was, and did endeavour to shew himself to the
Church.  Then home to dinner, and Roger Pepys did tell me the whole story
of Harman, how he prevaricated, and hath undoubtedly been imposed on, and
wheedled; and he is called the miller's man that, in Richard the Third's
time, was hanged for his master.

     [The story alluded to by Pepys, which belongs not to the reign of
     Richard III., but to that of Edward VI., occurred during a seditious
     outbreak at Bodmin, in Cornwall, and is thus related by Holinshed:
     "At the same time, and neare the same place [Bodmin], dwelled a
     miller, that had beene a greate dooer in that rebellion, for whom
     also Sir Anthonie Kingston sought: but the miller being thereof
     warned, called a good tall fellow that he had to his servant, and
     said unto him, 'I have business to go from home; if anie therefore
     come to ask for me, saie thou art the owner of the mill, and the man
     for whom they shall so aske, and that thou hast kept this mill for
     the space of three yeares; but in no wise name me.'  The servant
     promised his maister so to doo.  And shortlie after, came Sir
     Anthonie Kingston to the miller's house, and calling for the miller,
     the servant came forth, and answered that he was the miller.  'How
     long,' quoth Sir Anthonie, 'hast thou kept this mill?' He answered,
     'Three years.'--'Well, then,' said he, 'come on: thou must go with
     me;' and caused his men to laie hands on him, and to bring him to
     the next tree, saieing to him, 'Thou hast been a busie knave, and
     therefore here shalt thou hang.'  Then cried the fellow out, and
     saide that he was not the miller, but the miller's man.  'Well,
     then,' said Sir Anthonie, 'thou art a false knave to be in two
     tales: therefore,' said he, 'hang him up;' and so incontinentlie
     hanged he was indeed.  After he was dead, one that was present told
     Sir Anthonie, 'Surelie, sir, this was but the miller's man.'--'What
     then!' said he, 'could he ever have done his maister better service
     than to hang for him?'"--B.]

So after dinner I took them by water to White Hall, taking in a very
pretty woman at Paul's Wharf, and there landed we, and I left Roger Pepys
and to St. Margaret's Church, and there saw Betty, and so to walk in the
Abbey with Sir John Talbot, who would fain have pumped me about the
prizes, but I would not let him, and so to walk towards Michell's to see
her, but could not, and so to Martin's, and her husband was at home, and
so took coach and to the Park, and thence home and to bed betimes.  Water
1s., coach 5s.  Balty borrowed L2.

20th.  Up betimes and to the getting ready my answer to the Committee of
Accounts to several questions, which makes me trouble, though I know of no
blame due to me from any, let them enquire what they can out.

     [The first part of the entry for April 20th is among the rough
     notes, and stands as follows:  "Monday 20.  Up and busy about answer
     to Committee of Accounts this morning about several questions which
     vexed me though in none I have reason to be troubled.  But the
     business of The Flying Greyhound begins to find me some care, though
     in that I am wholly void of blame."  This may be compared with the
     text.]

I to White Hall, and there hear how Henry Brouncker is fled, which, I
think, will undo him: but what good it will do Harman I know not, he hath
so befooled himself; but it will be good sport to my Lord Chancellor to
hear how his great enemy is fain to take the same course that he is. There
met Robinson, who tells me that he fears his master, W. Coventry, will
this week have his business brought upon the stage again, about selling of
places, which I shall be sorry for, though the less, since I hear his
standing for Pen the other day, to the prejudice, though not to the wrong,
of my Lord Sandwich; and yet I do think what he did, he did out of a
principle of honesty.  Thence to Committee of Accounts, and delivered my
paper, and had little discourse, and was unwilling to stay long with them
to enter into much, but away and glad to be from them, though very civil
to me, but cunning and close I see they are.  So to Westminster Hall, and
there find the Parliament upon the Irish business, where going into the
Speaker's chamber I did hear how plainly one lawyer of counsel for the
complainants did inveigh by name against all the late Commissioners there.
Thence with Creed, thinking, but failed, of dining with Lord Crew, and so
he and I to Hercules Pillars, and there dined, and thence home by coach,
and so with Jack Fenn to the Chamberlain of London to look after the state
of some Navy assignments that are in his hands, and thence away, and
meeting Sir William Hooker, the Alderman, he did cry out mighty high
against Sir W. Pen for his getting such an estate, and giving L15,000 with
his daughter, which is more, by half, than ever he did give; but this the
world believes, and so let them.  Thence took coach and I all alone to
Hyde Park (passing through Duck Lane among the booksellers, only to get a
sight of the pretty little woman I did salute the other night, and did in
passing), and so all the evening in the Park, being a little unwilling to
be seen there, and at night home, and thereto W. Pen's and sat and talked
there with his wife and children a good while, he being busy in his
closet, I believe preparing his defence in Parliament, and so home to bed.

21st.  Up, and at the office all the morning, at noon dined at home, and
thence took Mrs. Turner out and carried her to the King's house, and saw
"The Indian Emperour;" and after that done, took Knepp out, and to
Kensington; and there walked in the garden, and then supped, and mighty
merry, there being also in the house Sir Philip Howard, and some company,
and had a dear reckoning, but merry, and away, it being quite night, home,
and dark, about 9 o'clock or more, and in my coming had the opportunity
the first time in my life to be bold with Knepp .  .  .  , and so left her
at home, and so Mrs. Turner and I home to my letters and to bed.  Here
hear how Sir W. Pen's impeachment was read, and agreed to, in the House
this day, and ordered to be engrossed; and he suspended the House--[From
sitting as a member pending the impeachment.-B.]--Harman set at liberty;
and Brouncker put out of the House, and a writ for a new election, and an
impeachment ordered to be brought in against him, he being fled!

     [Sir Charles Berkeley, jun. was chosen in his room.  In the sea-
     fight off Southwold Bay on June 3rd, 1665, the English triumphed
     over the Dutch, but the very considerable victory was not followed
     up.  During the night, while the Duke of York slept, Henry
     Brouncker, his groom of the bedchamber, ordered the lieutenant to
     shorten sail, by which means the progress of the whole fleet was
     retarded, the Duke of York's being the leading ship.  This series
     of articles deals with heart therapy, not discussing the heart
     structurally and anatomically, but taking up in detail the various
     forms of the disturbances which may affect the heart. The cordial
     reception given by the readers of The Journal to this series of
     articles has warranted its issue in book form so that it may be
     slipped into the pocket for review at appropriate times, or kept
on the desk for convenient reference.

CONTENTS
Preface Preface to First Edition Disturbances of the Heart in General
Classification of Cardiac Disturbances Blood Pressure Hypertension
Hypotension Pericarditis Myocardial Disturbances Endocarditis Chronic
Diseases of the Valves Acute Cardiac Symptoms: Acute Heart Attack Diet
and Baths in Heart Disease Heart Disease in Children and During Pregnancy
Degenerations Cardiovascular Renal Disease Disturbances of the Heart
Rate Toxic Disturbances and Heart Rate Miscellaneous Disturbances

DISTURBANCES OF THE HEART IN GENERAL

Of prime importance in the treatment of diseases of the heart is a determination
of the exact, or at least approximately exact, condition of its structures
and a determination of its ability to work.

This is not the place to describe its anatomy or its nervous mechanism or
the newer instruments of precision in estimating the heart function, but
they may be briefly itemized. It has now been known for some time that
the primary stimulus of cardiac contraction generally occurs at the
upper part of the right auricle, near its junction with the superior vena
cava, and that this region may be the "timer" of the heart.

This is called the sinus node, or the sino-auricular node, and
consists of a small bundle of fibers resembling muscle tissue. Lewis
[Footnote: Lewis: Lecture in the Harvey Society, New York Academy of
Medicine, Oct. 31, 1914.] describes this bundle as from 2 to 3 cm.
in length, its upper end being continuous with the muscle fibers of the
wall of the superior vena cava. Its lower end is continuous with the
muscle fibers of the right auricle. From this node "the excitation
wave is conducted radially along the muscular strands at a uniform rate
of about a thousand millimeters per second to all portions of the auricular
musculature."
Though a wonderfully tireless mechanism, this region may fall out
of adjustment, and the stimuli proceeding from it may not be normal
or act normally.

It has been shown recently not only that there must be perfection of
muscle, nerve and heart circulation but also that the various elements
in solution in the blood must be in perfect amounts and relationship to
each other for the heart stimulation to be normal. It has also been shown
that if for any reason this region of the right auricle is disturbed, a
stimulus or impulse might come from some other part of the auricle, or even
from the ventricle, or from some point between them. Such stimulations
may constitute auricular, ventricular or auriculoventricular extra
contractions or extrasystoles, as they are termed. In the last few years
it has been discovered that the auriculoventricular handle, or "bundle
of His," has a necessary function of conductivity of auricular impulse
to ventricular contraction. A temporary disturbance of this conductivity
will cause a heart block, an intermittent disturbance will cause
intermittent heart block (Stokes-Adams disease), and a prolonged disturbance,
death. It has also been shown that extrasystoles, meaning irregular heart
action, may be caused by impulses originating at the apex, at the base
or at some point in the right ventricle.

In the ventricles, Lewis states, the Purkinje fibers act as the conducting
agent, stimuli being conducted to all portions of the endocardium simultaneously
at a rate of from 2,000 to 1,000 mm. per second. The ventricular muscle
also aids in the conduction of the stimuli, but at a slower rate, 300
mm. per minute. The rate of conduction, Lewis believes, depends on the
glycogen content of the structures, the Purkinje fibers, where conduction
is most rapid, containing the largest amount of glycogen, the auricular
musculature containing the next largest amount of glycogen, and the
ventricular muscle fibers the least amount of glycogen.

     Anatomists and histologists have more perfectly demonstrated the
     muscle fibers of the heart and the structure at and around the valves;
     the physiologic chemists have shown more clearly the action of drugs,
     metals and organic solutions on the heart; and the physiologists
     and clinicians with laboratory facilities have demonstrated by
     various new apparatus the action of the heart and the circulatory
     power under various conditions. It is not now sufficient to state
     that the heart is acting irregularly, or that the pulse is irregular;
the endeavor should be to determine whit causes the irregularity,
and what kind of irregularity is present.

CLINICAL INTERPRETATION OF PULSE TRACINGS
A moment may be spent on clinical interpretation of pulse tracings.
It has recently been shown that the permanently irregular pulse is due to
fibrillary contraction, or really auricular fibrillation--in other
words, irregular stimuli proceeding from the auricle--and that such an
irregular pulse is not due to disturbance at the auriculoventricular node,
as believed a short time ago. These little irregular stimuli proceeding
from the auricle reach the auriculoventricular node and are transmitted
to the ventricle as rapidly as the ventricle is able to react. Such rapid
stimuli may soon cause death; or, if for any reason, medicinal or otherwise,
the ventricle becomes indifferent to these stimuli, it may not
take note of more than a certain portion of the stimuli. It then acts
slowly enough to allow prolongation of life, and even considerable activity.
If such a heart becomes more rapid from such stimuli, 110 or more, for any
length of time, the condition becomes very serious.
Digitalis in such a condition is, of course, of supreme value on
account of its ability to slow the heart.

Such irregularity perhaps most frequently occurs with valvular disease,
especially mitral stenosis and in the muscular degenerations of senility,
as fibrosis.

Atropin has been used to differentiate functional heart block from that
produced by a lesion. Hart [Footnote: Hart: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., 1915,
cxlix, 62.] has used atropin in three different types of heart block. In
the first the heart block is induced by digitalis. This was entirely
removed by atropin. In the second type, where there was normal
auricular activity, but where the ventricular contractions were decreased,
atropin affected an increase in the number of ventricular contractions,
but did not completely remove the heart block. He adopted atropin where
the heart block was associated with auricular fibrillation. The
number of ventricular contractions was increased, but not enough to
indicate the complete removal of the heart block.

Lewis [Footnote: Lewis: Brit. Med. Jour., 1909, ii, 1528.] believes that 50
percent of cardiac arrhythmia originates in muscle disturbance or
incoordination in the auricle. These stimuli are irregular in intensity,
and the contractions caused are irregular in degree. If the wave lengths
of the pulse tracing show no regularity- -if, in fact, hardly two
adjacent wave lengths are alike--the disturbance is auricular
fibrillation.

Injury to the auricle, or pressure for any reason on the auricle, may
so disturb the transmission of stimuli and contractions that the
contractions of the ventricle are very much fewer than the stimuli proceeding
from the auricle. In other words, a form of heart block may occur.
Various stimuli coming through the pneumogastric nerves, either from above
or from the peripheral endings in the stomach or intestines, may inhibit
or slow the ventricular contractions. It seems to have been again shown,
as was earlier understood, that there are inhibitory and accelerator
ganglia in the heart itself, each subject to various kinds of stimulation
and various kinds of depression.

Both auricular fibrillation and auricular flutter are best shown by the
polygraph and the electrocardiograph. The former is more exact as to
details. Auricular flutter, which has also been called auricular
tachysystole, is more common that is supposed. It consists of rapid
coordinate auricular contractions, varying from 200 to 300 per minute.
Fulton [Footnote: Fulton, F.

T.: "Auricular Flutter," with a Report of Two Cases, Arch. Int.
Med., October, 1913, p. 475.] finds in this condition that the
initial stimulus arises in some part of the auricular musculature other
than the sinus node. It is different from paroxysmal tachycardia, in
which the heart rate rarely exceeds 180 per minute. In auricular flutter
there is always present a certain amount of heart block, not all the
stimuli reaching the ventricle. There may be a ratio of auricular
contractions to ventricular contractions, according to Fulton, of 2:1,
3:1, 4:1 and 5:1, the 2:1 ratio being most common.

Of course it is generally understood that children have a higher pulse
rate than adults; that women normally have a higher pulse rate than men
at the same age; that strenuous muscular exercise, frequently repeated,
without cardiac tire while causing the pulse to be rapid at the time,
slows the pulse during the interim of such exercise and may gradually cause
a more or less permanent slow pulse. It should be remembered that athletes
have slow pulse, and the severity of their condition must not be interpreted
by the rate of the pulse. Even with high fever the pulse of an athlete
may be slow.

Not enough investigations have been made of the rate of the pulse
during sleep under various conditions. Klewitz [Footnote: Klewitz:
Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. 1913, cxii, 38.] found that the average pulse
rate of normal individuals while awake and active was 74 per minute, but
while asleep the average fell to 59 per minute. He found also that if a
state of perfect rest could be obtained during the waking period, the
pulse rate was slowed. This is also true in cases of compensated cardiac
lesions, but it was not true in decompensated hearts.

He found that irregularities such as extrasystoles and organic tachycardia
did not disappear during sleep, whereas functional tachycardia did.

It is well known that high blood pressure slows the pulse rate; that low
blood pressure generally increases the pulse rate, and that arteriosclerosis,
or the gradual aging of the arteries, slows the pulse, except when the
cardiac degeneration of old age makes the heart again more irritable and
more rapid. The rapid heart in hyperthyroidism is also well understood.
It is not so frequently noted that hypersecretion of the thyroid may cause
a rapid heart without any other tangible or discoverable thyroid symptom
or symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Bile in the blood almost always slows the
pulse.

INTERPRETATION OF TRACINGS
The interpretation of the arterial tracing shows that the nearly vertical
tip-stroke is due to the sudden rise of blood pressure caused by
the contraction of the ventricles.

The long and irregular down-stroke means a gradual fall of the blood pressure.
The first upward rise in this gradual decline is due to the secondary
contraction and expansion of the artery; in other words, a tidal wave.
The second upward rise in the decline is called the recoil, or the
dicrotic wave, and is due to the sudden closure of the aortic valves and
the recoil of the blood wave. The interpretation of the jugular tracing,
or phlebogram as the vein tracing may be termed, shows the apex of the
rise to be due to the contraction of the auricle. The short downward curve
from the apex means relaxation of the auricle. The second lesser rise,
called the carotid wave, is believed to be due to the impact of the
sudden expansion of the carotid artery. The drop of the wave tracing after
this cartoid rise is due to the auricular diastole. The immediate following
second rise not so high as that of the auricular contraction is known as
the ventricular wave, and corresponds to the dicrotic wave in the radial.
The next lesser decline shows ventricular diastole, or the heart rest. A
tracing of the jugular vein shows the activity of the right side of the
heart. The tracing of the carotid and radial shows the activity of the
left side of the heart. After normal tracings have been carefully taken
and studied by the clinician or a laboratory assistant, abnormalities in
these readings are readily shown graphically. Especially characteristic
are tracings of auricular fibrillation and those of heart block.

TESTS OF HEART STRENGTH
If both systolic and diastolic blood pressure are taken, and the heart
strength is more or less accurately determined, mistakes in the administration
of cardiac drugs will be less frequent. Besides mapping out the size
of the heart by roentgenoscopy and studying the contractions of the heart
with the fluoroscope, and a detailed study of sphygmographic and
cardiographic tracings, which methods are not available to the large
majority of physicians, there are various methods of approximately,
at least, determining the strength of the heart muscle.

Barringer [Footnote: Barringer, T. B., Jr.: The Circulatory Reaction to
Graduated Work as a Test of the Heart's Functional Capacity, Arch. Int.
Med., March, 1916, p. 363.] has experimented both with normal
persons and with patients who were suffering some cardiac insufficiency.
He used both the bicycle ergometer and dumb-bells, and finds that there
is a rise of systolic pressure after ordinary work, but a delayed rise after
very heavy work, in normal persons.
In patients with cardiac insufficiency he finds there is a delayed rise in
the systolic pressure after even slight exercise, and those with marked
cardiac insufficiency have even a lowering of blood pressure from the
ordinary level. They all have increase in pulse rate. He quotes several
authorities as showing that during muscle work the carbon dioxid of the
blood is increased in amount, which, stimulating the nervous centers
controlling the suprarenal glands, increases the epinephrin content of the
blood. The consequence is contraction of the splanchnic blood vessels, with
a rise in general blood pressure. Also, the quickened action of the heart
increases the blood pressure. After a rest from the exercise, the extra
amount of carbon dioxid is eliminated from the blood, the suprarenal glands
decrease their activity, and the blood pressure falls.

Nicolai and Zuntz [Footnote: Nicolai anal Zuntz: Berl. klin.
Wehnschr., May 4, 1914, p. 821.] have shown that with the first strain
of heavy work the heart increases in size, but it soon becomes normal,
or even smaller, as it more strenuously contracts, and the cavities of the
heart will be completely emptied at each systole. If the work is too heavy,
and the systolic blood pressure is rapidly increased, it may become
so great as to prevent the left ventricle from completely evacuating its
content. The heart then increases in size and may sooner or later become
strained; if this strain is severe, an acute dilatation may of course
occur, even in an otherwise well person. Such instances are not infrequent.
A heart which is already enlarged or slightly dilated and insufficient,
under the stress of muscular labor will more slowly increase its forcefulness,
and we have the delayed rise in systolic pressure.
Barringer concludes that:
The pulse rate and the blood pressure reaction to graduated work
is a valid test of the heart's functional capacity. If the systolic
pressure reaches its greatest height not immediately after work,
but from thirty to 120 seconds later, or if the pressure immediately
after work is lower than the original level, that work, whatever
its amount, has overtaxed the heart's functional capacity and may
be taken as an accurate measure of the heart's sufficiency.
In another article, Barringer [Footnote: Barringer, T. B., Jr.:
Studies of the Heart's Functional Capacity as Estimated by the
Circulatory Reaction to Graduated Work, Arch. Int. Med., May, 1916,
p. 670.] advises the use of a 5-pound dumb-bell extended upward
from the shoulder for 2 feet. Each such extension represents 10
foot- pounds of work, although the exertion of holding the dumb-bell
during the nonextension period is not estimated. He believes that
if circulatory tire is shown with less than 100 foot-pounds per
minute exercise, other signs of cardiac insufficiency will be in
evidence.
He also believes that these foot-pound tests can be made to determine
whether a patient should be up and about, and also that such graded
exercise will increase the heart strength in cardiac
insufficiency.

Schoonmaker, [Footnote: Schoonmaker: Am.The Parliament
several months upon an Act for L300,000, but cannot or will not agree upon
it, but do keep it back, in spite of the King's desires to hasten it, till
they can obtain what they have a mind, in revenge upon some men for the
late ill managements; and he is forced to submit to what they please,
knowing that, without it, he shall have no money, and they as well, that,
if they give the money, the King will suffer them to do little more; and
then the business of religion do disquiet every body, the Parliament being
vehement against the Nonconformists, while the King seems to be willing to
countenance them.  So we are all poor, and in pieces--God help us! while
the peace is like to go on between Spain and France; and then the French
may be apprehended able to attack us.  So God help us!

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Best fence against the Parliament's present fury is delay
     But this the world believes, and so let them
     Coach to W. Coventry about Mrs. Pett, 1s.
     Ever have done his maister better service than to hang for him?
     Making their own advantages to the disturbance of the peace
     Parliament being vehement against the Nonconformists
     Rough notes were made to serve for a sort of account book
     Saw two battles of cocks, wherein is no great sport
     Whip a boy at each place they stop at in their procession
     Work that is not made the work of any one man


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  MAY
                                  1668

May 1st, 1668.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy.  Then
to Westminster Hall, and there met Sir W. Pen, who labours to have his
answer to his impeachment, and sent down from the Lords' House, read by
the House of Commons; but they are so busy on other matters, that he
cannot, and thereby will, as he believes, by design, be prevented from
going to sea this year.  Here met my cozen Thomas Pepys of Deptford, and
took some turns with him; who is mightily troubled for this Act now passed
against Conventicles, and in few words, and sober, do lament the condition
we are in, by a negligent Prince and a mad Parliament.  Thence I by coach
to the Temple, and there set him down, and then to Sir G. Carteret's to
dine, but he not being at home, I back again to the New Exchange a little,
and thence back again to Hercules Pillars, and there dined all alone, and
then to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The Surprizall;" and a
disorder in the pit by its raining in, from the cupola at top, it being a
very foul day, and cold, so as there are few I believe go to the Park
to-day, if any.  Thence to Westminster Hall, and there I understand how
the Houses of Commons and Lords are like to disagree very much, about the
business of the East India Company and one Skinner; to the latter of which
the Lords have awarded L5000 from the former, for some wrong done him
heretofore; and the former appealing to the Commons, the Lords vote their
petition a libell; and so there is like to follow very hot work.  Thence
by water, not being able to get a coach, nor boat but a sculler, and that
with company, is being so foul a day, to the Old Swan, and so home, and
there spent the evening, making Balty read to me, and so to supper and to
bed.

2nd.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  .

* * * * *
The tailors' strike is over, and has resulted in a victory for the
strikers.

The contractors have signed the new agreement, and most of the tailors
are now back at their work.

This victory means a great deal to the workers. Their period of
labor will be reduced from fifteen hours a day to ten, and by the new
scale of wages they will be able to earn from $10 to $18 a week, instead
of from $5 to $10 as formerly.

The leader of the strike, Meyer Shoenfeld, has been working so hard in the
interests of his fellow-laborers that he is quite ill. At one of the last
meetings of the strikers he broke down in the midst of a speech
he was making, and was unable to continue.

When he heard that the contractors were about to sign, he insisted on
getting out of his sick-bed and going to the meeting, to make sure everything
was being properly arranged.

The success of the strikers will cause a slight increase in the price of
ready-made clothes, but few are likely to begrudge this when they realize
what an increase of comfort it means to the poor workers.
* * * * *
Austria and Hungary are not getting along as well as they might.
There are two reasons for this unfriendly feeling.
One is that Austria has asked Hungary to pay a larger proportion
of the common expenses of the two countries. It was arranged that
Hungary should pay thirty per cent. of these expenses, and Austria
the other seventy per cent., because Austria was much larger and
wealthier than the sister land.
Since these arrangements were made Hungary has become exceedingly
prosperous, and Austria now asks her to pay thirty-seven per cent.
of the expenses instead of the former thirty per cent.Pen took a hackney, and he and I to Old Street, to a brew-house
there, to see Sir Thomas Teddiman, who is very ill in bed of a fever, got,
I believe, by the fright the Parliament have put him into, of late.  But
he is a good man, a good seaman, and stout.  Thence Pen and I to
Islington, and there, at the old house, eat, and drank, and merry, and
there by chance giving two pretty fat boys each of them a cake, they
proved to be Captain Holland's children, whom therefore I pity.  So round
by Hackney home, having good discourse, he [Pen] being very open to me in
his talk, how the King ought to dissolve this Parliament, when the Bill of
Money is passed, they being never likely to give him more; how he [the
King] hath great opportunity of making himself popular by stopping this
Act against Conventicles; and how my Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, if the
Parliament continue, will undoubtedly fall, he having managed that place
with so much self-seeking, and disorder, and pleasure, and some great men
are designing to overthrow [him], as, among the rest, my Lord Orrery; and
that this will try the King mightily, he being a firm friend to my Lord
Lieutenant.  So home; and to supper a little, and then to bed, having
stepped, after I come home, to Alderman Backewell's about business, and
there talked a while with him and his wife, a fine woman of the country,
and how they had bought an estate at Buckeworth, within four mile of
Brampton.

4th.  As the first great social writer of the German tongue, he is not
content to make the rich answerable for existing conditions, but labors
with all earnestness to educate the lower classes toward self-help. At first
he appeared as an uncommonly energetic, conservative, polemic author in
whose views the religious, basis of life and genuine moral worth coincided
with the traditional character of the country yeomanry.
A more thorough examination revealed to his readers an original epic talent
of stupendous powers. He was indeed eminently fitted to be an educator
and reformer among his flock by his own nobility of character, his keen
knowledge and sane judgment of the people's real needs and wants, his
warm feeling, and his unexcelled insight into the peasant's inner life.
Beyond that, however, he was gifted with exuberant poetic imagination
and creative power, with an intuitive knowledge of the subtlest workings
of the emotional life, and a veritable genius for finding the critical
moments in an individual existence.

So it came about that the poet triumphed over the social reformer, in spite
of himself; and while in his own parish, at Lützelflüh in the Canton of
Berne--where he was installed as minister of the Gospel in 1832
after having spent some time there as a vicar--he is remembered
to this day for his self-sacrificing activity in every walk of life,
the world at large knows him only as one of the great prose writers
of Germany in the nineteenth century.

His first work, _Bauernspiegel_ ("The Peasants' Mirror"), was published
in 1836, when he was thirty-nine years old. From that time on until his
death in 1854, his productivity was most marvelous. _The Peasants' Mirror_
is the first village story that deserves the name; here, for the first time,
the world of the peasant was presented as a distinct world by itself.[1]
It is at the same time one of the earliest, as well as the most splendid,
products of realistic art; and, considered in connection with his later
writings, must be regarded as his creed and program. For the motives of
the several chapters reappear later, worked out into complete books,
and thus both _Uli der Knecht_ ("Uli, the Farmhand," 1841) and _Uli der
Pächter_ ("Uli, the Tenant," 1849) are foreshadowed here.

As a literary artist Gotthelf shows barely any progress in his whole
career, and intentionally so. Few writers of note have been so perfectly
indifferent to matters of form. The same Gottfried Keller who calls
Gotthelf "without exception the greatest epic genius that has lived
in a long time, or perhaps will live for a long time to come," characterizes
him thus as to his style: "With his strong, sharp spade he will dig out
a large piece of soil, load it on his literary wheelbarrow, and to the
accompaniment of strong language upset it before our feet; good
garden soil, grass, flowers and weeds, manure and stones, precious gold
coins and old shoes, fragments of crockery and bones--they all come
to light and mingle their sweet and foul smells in peaceful harmony." His
adherence to the principle _Naturalia non sunt turpia_ is indeed so
strict that at times a sensitive reader is tempted to hold his nose. It
is to be regretted that so great a genius in his outspoken preference for
all that is characteristic should have been so partial to the rude, the
crude, and the brutal. For Gotthelf's literary influence--which, to be
sure, did not make itself felt at once--has misled many less
original writers to consider these qualities as essential to
naturalistic style.

Very largely in consequence of his indifference to form and the naturalistic
tendencies mentioned--for to all intents and purposes Gotthelf must be
regarded as the precursor of naturalism--the Swiss writer did not gain
immediate recognition in the world of letters, and the credit rightfully
belonging to him fell, as already mentioned, to Berthold Auerbach
(1812-1882), a native of the village of Nordstetten in the Württemberg
portion of the Black Forest.

        From 1843-1853 Auerbach published his _Black Forest
          Village Stories_, which at once became the delight of the reading
public.

     Auerbach himself claimed the distinction of being the originator of
     this new species of narrative--an honor which was also claimed by
     Alexander Weill, because of his _Sittengemälde aus dem Elsass_
     ("Genre Paintings from Alsace," 1843).

While Gotthelf had written only for his peasants, without any regard
for others, Auerbach wrote for the same general readers of fiction as the
then fashionable writers did. So far as his popularity among the
readers of the times and his influence on other authors are concerned,
Auerbach has a certain right to the coveted title, for a whole school of
village novelists followed at his heels; and his name must remain inseparably
connected with the history of the novel of provincial life.
Pierces, where invited, and there was Knepp and Mrs. Foster and here
dined, but a poor, sluttish dinner, as usual, and so I could not be
heartily merry at it: here saw her girl's picture, but it is mighty far
short of her boy's, and not like her neither;  but it makes Hales's
picture of her boy appear a good picture.  Thence to White Hall, walked
with Brisband, who dined there also, and thence I back to the King's
playhouse, and there saw "The Virgin Martyr," and heard the musick that I
like so well, and intended to have seen Knepp, but I let her alone; and
having there done, went to Mrs. Pierces back again, where she was, and
there I found her on a pallet in the dark .  .  .  ,  that is Knepp. And
so to talk; and by and by did eat some curds and cream, and thence away
home, and it being night, I did walk in the dusk up and down, round
through our garden, over Tower Hill, and so through Crutched Friars, three
or four times, and once did meet Mercer and another pretty lady, but being
surprized I could say little to them,, although I had an opportunity of
pleasing myself with them,  but left them, and then I did see our Nell,
Payne's daughter, and her je did desire venir after me, and so elle did
see me to, Tower Hill to our back entry there that comes upon the degres
entrant into nostra garden .  .  .  , and so parted, and je home to put up
things against to-morrow's carrier for my wife; and, among others, a very
fine salmon-pie, sent me by Mr. Steventon, W. Hewer's uncle, and so to
bed.

7th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to
dinner, and thither I sent for Mercer to dine with me, and after dinner
she and I called Mrs. Turner, and I carried them to the Duke of York's
house, and there saw "The Man's the Master," which proves, upon my seeing
it again, a very good play.  Thence called Knepp from the King's house,
where going in for her, the play being done, I did see Beck Marshall come
dressed, off of the stage, and looks mighty fine, and pretty, and noble:
and also Nell, in her boy's clothes, mighty pretty.  But, Lord!  their
confidence! and how many men do hover about them as soon as they come off
the stage, and how confident they are in their talk!  Here I did kiss the
pretty woman newly come, called Pegg, that was Sir Charles Sidly's
mistress, a mighty pretty woman, and seems, but is not, modest.  Here took
up Knepp into our coach, and all of us with her to her lodgings, and
thither comes Bannister with a song of hers, that he hath set in Sir
Charles Sidly's play for her, which is, I think, but very meanly set; but
this he did, before us, teach her, and it being but a slight, silly, short
ayre, she learnt it presently.  But I did get him to prick me down the
notes of the Echo in "The Tempest," which pleases me mightily.  Here was
also Haynes, the incomparable dancer of the King's house, and a seeming
civil man, and sings pretty well, and they gone, we abroad to Marrowbone,
and there walked in the garden, the first time I ever was there; and a
pretty place it is, and here we eat and drank and stayed till 9 at night,
and so home by moonshine .  .  .  .  And so set Mrs. Knepp at her lodging,
and so the rest, and I home talking with a great deal of pleasure, and so
home to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning.  Towards noon I
to Westminster and there understand that the Lords' House did sit till
eleven o'clock last night, about the business in difference between them
and the Commons, in the matter of the East India Company.  Here took a
turn or two, and up to my Lord Crew's, and there dined; where Mr. Case,
the minister, a dull fellow in his talk, and all in the Presbyterian
manner; a great deal of noise and a kind of religious tone, but very dull.
After dinner my Lord and I together.  He tells me he hears that there are
great disputes like to be at Court, between the factions of the two women,
my Lady Castlemayne and Mrs. Stewart, who is now well again, and the King
hath made several public visits to her, and like to come to Court: the
other is to go to Barkeshire-house, which is taken for her, and they say a
Privy-Seal is passed for L5000 for it.  He believes all will come to ruin.
Thence I to White Hall, where the Duke of York gone to the Lords' House,
where there is to be a conference on the Lords' side to the Commons this
afternoon, giving in their Reasons, which I would have been at, but could
not; for, going by direction to the Prince's chamber, there Brouncker, W.
Pen, and Mr. Wren, and I, met, and did our business with the Duke of York.
But, Lord!  to see how this play of Sir Positive At-all,--["The
Impertinents."]--in abuse of Sir Robert Howard, do take, all the Duke's
and every body's talk being of that, and telling more stories of him, of
the like nature, that it is now the town and country talk, and, they say,
is most exactly true.  The Duke of York himself said that of his playing
at trap-ball is true, and told several other stories of him.  This being
done, Brouncker, Pen, and I to Brouncker's house, and there sat and
talked, I asking many questions in mathematics to my Lord, which he do me
the pleasure to satisfy me in, and here we drank and so spent an hour, and
so W. Pen and I home, and after being with W. Pen at his house an hour, I
home and to bed.

9th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning we sat.  Here I first
hear that the Queene hath miscarryed of a perfect child, being gone about
ten weeks, which do shew that she can conceive, though it be unfortunate
that she cannot bring forth.  Here we are told also that last night the
Duchesse of Monmouth, dancing at her lodgings, hath sprained her thigh.
Here we are told also that the House of Commons sat till five o'clock this
morning, upon the business of the difference between the Lords and them,
resolving to do something therein before they rise, to assert their
privileges.  So I at noon by water to Westminster, and there find the King
hath waited in the Prince's chamber these two hours, and the Houses are
not ready for him.  The Commons having sent this morning, after their long
debate therein the last night, to the Lords, that they do think the only
expedient left to preserve unity between the two Houses is, that they do
put a stop to any proceedings upon their late judgement against the East
India Company, till their next meeting; to which the Lords returned answer
that they would return answer to them by a messenger of their own, which
they not presently doing, they were all inflamed, and thought it was only
a trick, to keep them in suspense till the King come to adjourne them;
and, so, rather than lose the opportunity of doing themselves right, they
presently with great fury come to this vote: "That whoever should assist
in the execution of the judgement of the Lords against the Company, should
be held betrayers of the liberties of the people of England, and of the
privileges of that House." This the Lords had notice of, and were mad at
it; and so continued debating without any design to yield to the Commons,
till the King come in, and sent for the Commons, where the Speaker made a
short but silly speech, about their giving Him L300,000; and then the
several Bills, their titles were read, and the King's assent signified in
the proper terms, according to the nature of the Bills, of which about
three or four were public Bills, and seven or eight private ones, the
additional Bills for the building of the City and the Bill against
Conventicles being none of them.  The King did make a short, silly speech,
which he read, giving them thanks for the money, which now, he said, he
did believe would be sufficient, because there was peace between his
neighbours, which was a kind of a slur, methought, to the Commons; and
that he was sorry for what he heard of difference between the two Houses,
but that he hoped their recesse would put them into a way of
accommodation; and so adjourned them to the 9th of August, and then
recollected himself, and told them the 11th; so imperfect a speaker he is.
So the Commons went to their House, and forthwith adjourned; and the Lords
resumed their House, the King being gone, and sat an hour or two after,
but what they did, I cannot tell; but every body expected they would
commit Sir Andrew Rickard, Sir Samuel Barnardiston, Mr. Boone, and Mr.
Wynne, who were all there, and called in, upon their knees, to the bar of
the House; and Sir John Robinson I left there, endeavouring to prevent
their being committed to the Tower, lest he should thereby be forced to
deny their order, because of this vote of the Commons, whereof he is one,
which is an odde case.

     [This "odd case" was that of Thomas Skinner and the East India
     Company.  According to Ralph, the Commons had ordered Skinner, the
     plaintiff, into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, and the Lords
     did the same by Sir Samuel Barnadiston, deputy-governor of the
     company, as likewise Sir Andrew Rickard, Mr. Rowland Gwynn, and Mr.
     Christopher Boone.--B.]

Thence I to the Rose Taverne in Covent Garden, and there sent for a pullet
and dined all alone, being to meet Sir W. Pen, who by and by come, and he
and I into the King's house, and there "The Mayd's Tragedy," a good play,
but Knepp not there; and my head and eyes out of order, the first from my
drinking wine at dinner, and the other from my much work in the morning.
Thence parted, and I towards the New Exchange and there bought a pair of
black silk stockings at the hosier's that hath the very pretty woman to
his wife, about ten doors on this side of the 'Change, and she is indeed
very pretty, but I think a notable talking woman by what I heard to others
there.  Thence to Westminster Hall, where I hear the Lords are up, but
what they have done I know not, and so walked toward White Hall and thence
by water to the Tower, and so home and there to my letters, and so to Sir
W. Pen's; and there did talk with Mrs. Lowther, who is very kind to me,
more than usual, and I will make use of it.  She begins to draw very well,
and I think do as well, if not better, than my wife, if it be true that
she do it herself, what she shews me, and so to bed, and my head akeing
all night with the wine I drank to-day, and my eyes ill.  So lay long, my
head pretty well in the morning.

10th (Lord's day).  Up, and to the office, there to do, business till
church time, when Mr. Shepley, newly come to town, come to see me, and we
had some discourse of all matters, and particularly of my Lord Sandwich's
concernments, and here did by the by as he would seem tell me that my
Lady--[Lady Sandwich.]--had it in her thoughts, if she had occasion, to,
borrow L100 of me, which I did not declare any opposition to, though I
doubt it will be so much lost.  But, however, I will not deny my Lady, if
she ask it, whatever comes of it, though it be lost; but shall be glad
that it is no bigger sum.  And yet it vexes me though, and the more
because it brings into my head some apprehensions what trouble I may here
after be brought to when my Lord comes home, if he should ask me to come
into bonds with him, as I fear he will have occasions to make money, but I
hope I shall have the wit to deny it.  He being gone, I to church, and so
home, and there comes W. Hewer and Balty, and by and by I sent for Mercer
to come and dine with me, and pretty merry, and after dinner I fell to
teach her "Canite Jehovae," which she did a great part presently, and so
she away, and I to church, and from church home with my Lady Pen; and,
after being there an hour or so talking, I took her, and Mrs. Lowther, and
old Mrs. Whistler, her mother-in-law, by water with great pleasure as far
as Chelsy, and so back to Spring Garden, at Fox-hall, and there walked,
and eat, and drank, and so to water again, and set down the old woman at
home at Durham Yard:' and it raining all the way, it troubled us; but,
however, my cloak kept us all dry, and so home, and at the Tower wharf
there we did send for a pair of old shoes for Mrs. Lowther, and there I
did pull the others off and put them on, elle being peu shy, but do speak
con mighty kindness to me that she would desire me pour su mari if it were
to be done .  .  .  .  .  Here staid a little at Sir W. Pen's, who was
gone to bed, it being about eleven at night, and so I home to bed.

11th.  Up, and to my office, where alone all the morning.  About noon
comes to me my cousin Sarah, and my aunt Livett, newly come out of
Gloucestershire, good woman, and come to see me; I took them home, and
made them drink, but they would not stay dinner, I being alone.  But here
they tell me that they hear that this day Kate Joyce was to be married to
a man called Hollingshed, whom she indeed did once tell me of, and desired
me to enquire after him.  But, whatever she said of his being rich, I do
fear, by her doing this without my advice, it is not as it ought to be;
but, as she brews, let her bake.  They being gone, I to dinner with Balty
and his wife, who is come to town to-day from Deptford to see us, and
after dinner I out and took a coach, and called Mercer, and she and I to
the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw "The Tempest," and between two
acts, I went out to Mr. Harris, and got him to repeat to me the words of
the Echo, while I writ them down, having tried in the play to have wrote
them; but, when I had done it, having done it without looking upon my
paper, I find I could not read the blacklead. But now I have got the words
clear, and, in going in thither, had the pleasure to see the actors in
their several dresses, especially the seamen and monster, which were very
droll: so into the play again.  But there happened one thing which vexed
me, which is, that the orange-woman did come in the pit, and challenge me
for twelve oranges, which she delivered by my order at a late play, at
night, to give to some ladies in a box, which was wholly untrue, but yet
she swore it to be true.  But, however, I did deny it, and did not pay
her; but, for quiet, did buy 4s. worth of oranges of her, at 6d. a-piece.
Here I saw first my Lord Ormond since his coming from Ireland, which is
now about eight days.  After the play done, I took Mercer by water to
Spring Garden; and there with great pleasure walked, and eat, and drank,
and sang, making people come about us, to hear us, and two little children
of one of our neighbours that happened to be there, did come into our
arbour, and we made them dance prettily.  So by water, with great
pleasure, down to the Bridge, and there landed, and took water again on
the other side; and so to the Tower, and I saw her home, I myself home to
my chamber, and by and by to bed.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat, and sat all the morning. Here
Lord Anglesey was with us, and in talk about the late difference between
the two Houses, do tell us that he thinks the House of Lords may be in an
error, at least, it is possible they may, in this matter of Skinner; and
he doubts they may, and did declare his judgement in the House of Lords
against their proceedings therein, he having hindered 100 originall causes
being brought into their House, notwithstanding that he was put upon
defending their proceedings: but that he is confident that the House of
Commons are in the wrong, in the method they take to remedy an error of
the Lords, for no vote of theirs can do it; but, in all like cases, the
Commons have done it by petition to the King, sent up to the Lords, and by
them agreed to, and so redressed, as they did in the Petition of Right.
He says that he did tell them indeed, which is talked of, and which did
vex the Commons, that the Lords were "Judices nati et Conciliarii nati;"
but all other judges among us are under salary, and the Commons themselves
served for wages; and therefore the Lords, in reason, were the freer
judges.  At noon to dinner at home, and after dinner, where Creed dined
with me, he and I, by water to the Temple, where we parted, and I both to
the King's and Duke of York's playhouses, and there went through the
houses to see what faces I could spy that I knew, and meeting none, I away
by coach to my house, and then to Mrs. Mercer's, where I met with her two
daughters, and a pretty-lady I never knew yet, one Mrs. Susan Gayet, a
very pretty black lady, that speaks French well, and is a Catholick, and
merchant's daughter, by us, and here was also Mrs. Anne Jones, and after
sitting and talking a little, I took them out, and carried them through
Hackney to Kingsland, and there walked to Sir G. Whitmore's house, where I
have not been many a day; and so to the old house at Islington, and eat,
and drank, and sang, and mighty merry; and so by moonshine with infinite
pleasure home, and there sang again in Mercer's garden.  And so parted, I
having there seen a mummy in a merchant's warehouse there, all the middle
of the man or woman's body, black and hard.  I never saw any before, and,
therefore, it pleased me much, though an ill sight; and he did give me a
little bit, and a bone of an arme, I suppose, and so home, and there to
bed.

13th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and so to Sir H. Cholmly's, who not
being up I made a short visit to Sir W. Coventry, and he and I through the
Park to White Hall, and thence I back into the Park, and there met Sir H.
Cholmly, and he and I to Sir Stephen Fox's, where we met and considered
the business of the Excise, how far it is charged in reference to the
payment of the Guards and Tangier.  Thence he and I walked to Westminster
Hall and there took a turn, it being holyday, and so back again, and I to
the mercer's, and my tailor's about a stuff suit that I am going to make.
Thence, at noon, to Hercules Pillars, and there dined all alone, and so to
White Hall, some of us attended the Duke of York as usual, and so to
attend the Council about the business of Hemskirke's project of building a
ship that sails two feet for one of any other ship, which the Council did
agree to be put in practice, the King to give him, if it proves good,
L5000 in hand, and L15,000 more in seven years, which, for my part, I
think a piece of folly for them to meddle with, because the secret cannot
be long kept.  So thence, after Council, having drunk some of the King's
wine and water with Mr. Chevins, my Lord Brouncker, and some others, I by
water to the Old Swan, and there to Michell's, and did see her and drink
there, but he being there je ne baiser la; and so back again by water to
Spring Garden all alone, and walked a little, and so back again home, and
there a little to my viall, and so to bed, Mrs. Turner having sat and
supped with me.  This morning I hear that last night Sir Thomas Teddiman,
poor man! did die by a thrush in his mouth: a good man, and stout and
able, and much lamented; though people do make a little mirth, and say, as
I believe it did in good part, that the business of the Parliament did
break his heart, or, at least, put him into this fever and disorder, that
caused his death.

14th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at noon
home to dinner with my people, but did not stay to dine out with them, but
rose and straight by water to the Temple, and so to Penny's, my tailor's,
where by and by by agreement Mercer, and she, to my great content, brings
Mrs. Gayet, and I carried them to the King's house; but, coming too soon,
we out again to the Rose taverne, and there I did give them a tankard of
cool drink, the weather being very hot, and then into the playhouse again,
and there saw "The Country Captain," a very dull play, that did give us no
content, and besides, little company there, which made it very unpleasing.
Thence to the waterside, at Strand bridge, and so up by water and to
Fox-hall, where we walked a great while, and pleased mightily with the
pleasure thereof, and the company there, and then in, and eat and drank,
and then out again and walked, and it beginning to be dark, we to a corner
and sang, that everybody got about us to hear us; and so home, where I saw
them both at their doors, and, full of the content of this afternoon's
pleasure, I home and to walk in the garden a little, and so home to bed.

15th.  Up, and betimes to White Hall, and there met with Sir H. Cholmly at
Sir Stephen Fox's, and there was also the Cofferer, and we did there
consider about our money and the condition of the Excise, and after much
dispute agreed upon a state thereof and the manner of our future course of
payments.  Thence to the Duke of York, and there did a little navy
business as we used to do, and so to a Committee for Tangier, where God
knows how my Lord Bellasses's accounts passed; understood by nobody but my
Lord Ashly, who, I believe, was mad to let them go as he pleased.  But
here Sir H. Cholmly had his propositions read, about a greater price for
his work of the Mole, or to do it upon account, which, being read, he was
bid to withdraw.  But, Lord! to see how unlucky a man may be, by chance;
for, making an unfortunate minute when they were almost tired with the
other business, the Duke of York did find fault with it, and that made all
the rest, that I believe he had better have given a great deal, and had
nothing said to it to-day; whereas, I have seen other things more
extravagant passed at first hearing, without any difficulty.  Thence I to
my Lord Brouncker's, at Mrs. Williams's, and there dined, and she did shew
me her closet, which I was sorry to see, for fear of her expecting
something from me; and here she took notice of my wife's not once coming
to see her, which I am glad of; for she shall not--a prating, vain, idle
woman.  Thence with Lord Brouncker to Loriners'-hall,

     [The Loriners, or Lorimers (bit-makers), of London are by reputation
     an ancient mistery, but they were first incorporated by letters
     patent of 10 Queen Anne (December 3rd, 1711).  Their small hall was
     at the corner of Basinghall Street in London Wall.  The company has
     no hall now.]

by Mooregate, a hall I never heard of before, to Sir Thomas Teddiman's
burial, where most people belonging to the sea were.  And here we had
rings: and here I do hear that some of the last words that he said were,
that he had a very good King, God bless him!  but that the Parliament had
very ill rewarded him for all the service he had endeavoured to do them
and his country; so that, for certain, this did go far towards his death.
A dilated heart has lost more or less of its regulating mechanism; this
is the cause of its irregularity and its increased rapidity. The action
of digitalis in slowing the heart, giving it a longer rest, and preventing
it from acting irregularly is of great value. This prolonged rest
or diastole of the heart allows the circulation in the coronary arteries
to become normal, and the nutrition and muscle tone of the heart improves.
Digitalis also increases the blood pressure, not only by improving the
activity of the heart, but also by causing some contraction of the arterioles.
This feature of digitalis action in arteriosclerosis renders its use
sometimes a question of careful decision. The dose of digitalis under
such a condition should not be large. It may be indicated, however,
and may do a great deal of good, and it does not always increase the blood
pressure.

If the patient is sufficiently ill to require the best action of digitalis,
an active preparation should be obtained. It was long supposed that the
infusion presented activities which could not be furnished by the tincture
of digitalis. This seems not to be true.
The greater value of the infusion is generally because it is freshly made
and active; the tincture which had been used previously in a given case
was old and useless; furthermore, most physicians give a larger dose
of the infusion than they ever do of the tincture. Owing to the uncertainty
of the value of the digitalis leaves found in the various drug
shops, however, and to variations in the preparation of the infusion,
it is generally better to use a tincture of known character.

The beginning dose of such a tincture should generally not be more than 5
drops, and it should not be repeated more frequently than once in eight
hours. It is generally advisable, in two or three days, to increase this
dose to 10 drops once in twelve hours, later perhaps to 15 drops twice a
day, and still later to 20 drops once a day. This amount may then be
decreased gradually, if the action is satisfactory. Enough should be
given to procure results, and then the dose should be brought down to what
seems sufficient and best, administered once a day. The frequence
advised in the administration of this drug is because it is eliminated
slowly.

Its greatest action develops a number of hours after it has
been taken, and then the action lasts for many hours; the administration
of digitalis once in twenty-four hours is perfectly satisfactory for
many patients, and more satisfactory than any more frequent administration.
On the other hand, some patients do better on a smaller dose once in twelve
hours. This frequence is always sufficient.

Digipuratum and digitol, a fat-free tincture, proprietary preparations
accepted by the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry for inclusion in N.
N. R., may be employed. They are standardized preparations and may thus
be more satisfactory than some pharmacopeial preparations of digitalis,
although their claims to lessened emetic action are not borne out by recent
experiments of Hatcher and Eggleston.

Digipuratum may be obtained in tubes of twelve tablets. The advice has
been given for patients with loss of compensation to receive four tablets
the first day, three the second, three the third, and two the fourth day.
This, however, is generally an overdosage. The most that should generally
be given is one of these tablets in twelve hours. Digipuratum fluid is
also a valuable preparation.

Digitol is a fat-free tincture of digitalis which is physiologically
standardized and which bears on each package the date of manufacture. The
close is from 0.3 to 1 c.c. (5 to 15 mimims).

Digitalinum, one of the active principles of digitalis, is not very
satisfactory. It may be given hypodermically, but often causes irritation,
and the proper dose and its value are apt to be uncertain.

Digitoxin, another active principle of digitalis, has been declared by some
investigators to be harmful, also to be liable to cause serious disturbance
of a damaged heart. Other investigators have stated that it acts for
good. Digitoxin does not represent the whole value of digitalis, and in
broken compensation digitalis itself, or some preparation embodying the
majority of its activities, should be given. Digitoxin, however, is often
valuable in conditions of cardiac debility or slight weakening in patients
who do not have dilated hearts or edemas. The most satisfactory dose of
digalen is from 5 to 10 drops once or twice in twenty-four hours.

Digitalis should not be used when there is fatty degeneration of the heart;
it should ordinarily not be used when there is arteriosclerosis, and
very rarely, if ever, when it is decided that there is coronary disease.
Whether digitalis should be used when there is considered to be much
myocardial degeneration is a question for individualization. One can never
be sure that the heart muscle is so thoroughly degenerated that no part
of it would be benefited by digitalis when compensation is lost; therefore,
many times, especially if other drugs have failed, small doses of digitalis
should be tried, to see if the heart will respond. Large doses or
frequent doses would be contraindicated.

The signs of overaction of digitalis are nausea, vomiting, a diminished
amount of urine, a tight, band-like feeling around the head, perhaps
occipital headache and coldness of the hands and feet, or frequently of
one extremity only, combined with a feeling of numbness. The pulse is
generally reduced to sixty or less a minute.
Such symptoms require that digitalis be immediately stopped. They are the
primary signs of cumulative action.

While many patients with ordinary dosage of digitalis may take the drug for
months and years without ever showing cumulative action, other patients
show this effect quickly. They are apt to be those in whom the kidneys are
not perfect. The signs of such undesired action may develop slowly, as
suggested by the symptoms just enumerated, or they may develop suddenly.
The pulse becomes rapid and irregular, the heart action weak, there is
severe backache in the region of the kidneys, a greatly diminished amount
of urine, or even partial suppression, severe headache, vomiting,
cold extremities and shiverings.

The treatment of such an undesired behavior of digitalis is, of course, to
stop the drug immediately, give saline laxatives, hot sponging or hot
baths, nitroglycerin and perhaps alcohol.

Strophanthus: Strophanthus cannot be compared with digitalis, except
when the glucosid, strophanthin, is administered subcutaneously or
intravenously. Strophanthus is given either in the form of the tincture,
or as strophanthin. It has been shown that in neither of these forms,
when the drug is administered by the stomach, is the muscle of the heart
or the blood vessels much acted on. Compensation could not be restored
by strophanthus. In emergencies of serious cardiac failure, strophanthin
intravenously has been shown apparently to save life. It acts quickly,
and its power of stimulating the heart and contracting the blood vessels
lasts for many hours. It is rarely, however, that the dose should be
repeated, and then not for twenty-four hours, but during that twenty-four
hours the patient may be saved until other drugs which act more slowly have
been absorbed, or perhaps until the emergency has passed. It probably
should not be given if the patient has previously had good dosage of
digitalis.

There are many, however, who believe that they obtain considerable
value from the tincture of strophanthus, and there seems to be no doubt
that although strophanthus, given in the form of the tincture and by the
mouth, may not increase the muscle power of the heart, it many times
acts as a satisfactory cardiac sedative. Under its action the patient
becomes less nervous, the heart often acts more regularly, and the low
blood pressure may improve. We should not be quite ready to discard the
internal use of the tincture of strophanthus.

The tincture of strophanthus readily deteriorates, and the preparation
ordered should be known to be a good one.

Caffein: This should not be given or allowed, even in the form of tea or
coffee, to patients who have valvular lesions with perfect compensation,
as it is a nervous and cardiac stimulant and may cause a heart to become
irritable. It raises the blood pressure slightly, acts as a diuretic, and
hence is often of great value when used medicinally. It should be ranked
as a stimulotonic to the heart. It increases its activity, but gives it a
little more strength. It will rarely slow a rapid heart; it will often
stimulate a sluggish, slow heart; it may increase the irritability of
an irritable heart. As it is a cerebral stimulant, it should not be given
late in the afternoon or evening, as it may prevent sleep.

The most frequent form of caffein used is the citrated caffein. The dose
is 0.1 gm. (1 1/2 grains) two or three times in the early part of the
day, or 0.2 gm. (3 grains) once or twice during the morning.
A few much larger doses may be given if desired. A cup of coffee may be given
the patient medicinally: as a substitute for the drug, an ordinary
cup of strong coffee containing between 2 and 3 grains.
Other preparations of caffein may be selected if desired, or a soluble
preparation may be given hypodermically.

Caffein is indicated if digitalis is contraindicated or does not act
satisfactorily, and the patient is not nervously excited, but perhaps is
stupid or apathetic, and also when diuresis is desired.

Strychnin: This is a valuable stimulator and heart tonic when properly used.
It promotes muscular activity of the heart much as it promotes all
muscular activities. It awakens nervous stimuli and nervous transmissions
to normal in all sluggish nerve functions. If for these reasons the heart
acts more perfectly, and the nutrition of the heart muscle improves, it
acts as a cardiac tonic. Many times, by improving the action of the
heart, and also by the action of the drug on the vasomotor center, the
pressure in the peripheral circulation may be increased. On the other
hand, strychnin in the low blood pressure of serious illness, such as
pneumonia, by no means always raises the blood pressure.

It should not be forgotten that strychnin is a general nervous
stimulant, especially of the spinal cord.

     If it makes a nervous patient more nervous, or a quiet patient
     restless and irritable, it is acting for harm and should be stopped,
     just as caffein under the same conditions should be stopped.

Strychnin may cause diminished secretion of the skin. This is not
frequent, but it does occur. It may prevent the patient from sleeping.
If such be the fact, strychnin is not acting for good in a patient who
has cardiac weakness.

INDICATIONS FOR STRYCHNIN
Strychnin is a much overused drug.

It is now given for almost everything and during almost every disease. It
is true that the administration of strychnin is largely due to
the evolution of the age in which we are now living. We have ceased to purge
and bleed and sweat, and to give large doses of aconite or veratrum
viride; have ceased to starve the patient too long; we have ceased to
load him with alcohol to the point of circulatory prostration, and we have
recognized that he must be braced from start to finish; strychnin is the
drug which has been used for this purpose, and, as stated above, overused.
Strychnin given too frequently or in too large doses for a laboring heart
can prevent its proper rest; the diastole is shortened and the relaxation
of the heart is incomplete, its nutrition suffers, or even irregular and
fibrillary contractions of a weak heart may apparently be caused. While a
large dose of strychnin, even to one-twentieth grain hypodermically, may
be used once in serious emergency when it is deemed the drug to use, a
dose larger than one-thirtieth grain hypodermically is rarely indicated,
the frequency of such a dose should seldom be more than once in six
hours, and a smaller close of strychnin may act more satisfactorily.

Strychnin is indicated when the heart is acting sluggishly and the
contractions seem incomplete, and when digitalis either is not indicated
or is not acting perfectly. Small doses of strychnin may aid such a
heart during the administration of digitalis. In many instances in
which digitalis is contraindicated, strychnin is of marked value. This
is typically true in fatty hearts, and may be true in arteriosclerosis,
in which it often does not increase the blood pressure at all.

2. Cardiac Stimulants.--A cardiac stimulant is a drug which makes the
heart beat more strongly and the frequence more nearly normal.
The drugs named as cardiac stimulants, however, camphor, alcohol and ammonia,
do not leave a heart better than they found it--they are not cardiac
tonics.

Camphor: This is one of the best cardiac stimulants that we possess.
It is a quickly acting nervous and circulatory stimulant, acting principally
on the cerebrum and causing a dilation of the peripheral blood vessels.
No subsequent weakness follows after a dose of camphor.

Too much will make a patient wakeful, a little often quiets nervous
irritability. It should be used as a cardiac stimulant during serious
illness more frequently than it has been; and during the endeavor to make
a noncompensating heart again compensatory camphor will often act for good.
The dose is 2 teaspoonfuls of the camphor-water every three or four hours,
as deemed advisable. Each teaspoonful represents a little more than
one-fourth grain of camphor. The spirits of camphor, of course, may be
used, if preferred.

For cardiac emergencies, ampules of sterile saturated solutions in oil are
now obtainable and are valuable. Such hypodermic stimulation acts
quickly, and may be repeated every half hour for several times, if the
patient does not respond. The solution should be injected slowly, and
as a rule intramuscularly.

Many times while other measures are being used to repair a broken
compensation, camphor makes a splendid circulatory and nervous
bracer.

Camphor has long been used as a so-called antispasmodic in hysteric or other
nervously irritable persons. It really acts as a stimulant to the highest
centers of the brain, promoting more or less nervous control. Perhaps its
ability to increase the peripheral circulation may be one of the reasons
that it seems at times to be almost a nervous sedative by relieving internal
congestion. As just stated, after the camphor action is over there is
no depression.
This is not true of alcohol.

Alcohol: It is of course now generally understood that alcohol is not a
cardiac stimulant in the sense of its being more than momentarily helpful
to a weak heart. If alcohol is pushed when a heart is in trouble,
the secondary vasodilatation and more or less nerve prostration and
muscle debility will cause greater circulatory weakness than before it was
administered.

To obtain cardiac stimulation from alcohol it must be given in strong
solutions, generally in the form of whisky or brandy, for local irritation
of the mouth, esophagus and stomach; reflexly the heart is stimulated
and the blood pressure rises. As soon as complete absorption has taken
place, the blood pressure falls. For continuous stimulation, another
dose of alcohol must be given before this depression occurs. This may be
in from one to three hours. To continue such stimulation, the dose of alcohol
must be increased.

The future of such treatment means an alcoholic sleep with depression,
alcoholic excitement which is not desired, or profound nausea and vomiting,
with peripheral relaxation and cold perspiration.

Obviously none of these conditions is desirable; but in arteriosclerosis,
or when the blood pressure is high and the heart labors tinder the
disadvantage of contracting against an abnormal circulatory resistance,
alcohol may act perfectly to relieve this kind of circulatory disturbance.
In this condition the alcohol should not be given concentrated, and as
soon as it is thoroughly absorbed vasodilatation occurs, peripheral
circulation and therefore warmth are increased, and the heart is relieved
of its extra load.
In such instances, in proper doses not too frequently repeated, rarely more
than 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls every three hours, alcohol is a valuable drug.
Such good action of alcohol is often seen when the surface of the body is
cold from chilling, or the extremities are cold from vasomotor spasm.
A good-sized dose of alcohol, best given hot, equalizes the circulation and
acts for good. On the contrary, it is obvious that, if the patient is cold
from collapse and there is cold perspiration and very low blood pressure,
alcohol is not the drug indicated, although one dose may be of benefit
while other more slowly acting cardiac tonics or stimulants are being
administered.

During serious prolonged illness and when the patient has not had sufficient
food and is not taking sufficient food, alcohol in the form of
whisky or brandy, not more than a teaspoonful every three hours, acts
as a necessary food, and will more or less prevent acidosis from
starvation.

It will be seen that alcohol, except possibly in a single dose occasionally,
or for some special reason, is rarely indicated in decompensation.

When alcohol is administered regularly, whether during a fever process or
for any other reason, if it causes a dry tongue, cerebral excitement,
flushed face and a bounding pulse or if there is the odor of alcohol on
the breath, the dose is too large, and alcohol is contraindicated.

Ammonia: In the form of ammonium carbonate or the aromatic spirits of
ammonia, this has long been used with clinical satisfaction as a cardiac
stimulant. Probably, however, it is seldom wise to use ammonium carbonate.
It is exceedingly irritant, and constantly causes nausea, perhaps vomiting,
and often heartburn or other gastric disturbance. It has no value over the
pleasanter aromatic spirits of ammonia, which is essentially a solution
of ammonium carbonate. The dose of the aromatic spirits is anywhere
from a few drops to half a teaspoonful, given with plenty of water.
It is thought to be a quickly acting stimulant, with an effect much
like alcohol, followed by very little or no depression. It is more
of a cerebral irritant than alcohol, and probably has few, if any,
advantages over camphor.
When but little nutriment has been taken for some days, it may be
a chemical question, since ammonium compounds so readily form and
become cerebral irritants, whether any more ammonium radicals should
be given the patient. This is especially true with defective kidneys.
In these conditions camphor is better.
3. Vasodilators.--In various conditions of high blood pressure,
arteriosclerosis and even during the sthenic stage of a fever,
vasodilators may be indicated. The most important are nitrites,
iodids and thyroid extracts. Alcohol, as stated above, may act as
a vasodilator. Aconite and veratrum viride are now rarely indicated,
although possibly aconite should be used when there is high tension
and the heart is acting irritably and stormily.
If the nitrites, no preparation seems to act more satisfactorily
than nitroglycerin (trinitrin, glyceryl nitratis, glonoin). Its
action may not be so prolonged as other forms of nitrite, such as
sodium nitrite or erythrol tetranitrate, but it is not irritant,
and only a little less rapid than amyl nitrite, and although the
marked dilation lasts but a short time, often apparently only for
minutes, still, when frequently repeated or given a few times (from
four to six) in twenty-four hours, it frequently keeps the blood
pressure lower than it would be without the drug. In diseases of
the heart the sudden vasodilation caused by amyl nitrite inhalations
is indicated only in angina pectoris. "Then the surface of the body
tends to be cold, however, when the peripheral blood pressure is
increased and the heart is laboring, nitroglycerin in small doses
is valuable. The dose may be from 1/400 to 1/100 grain, dissolved
on the tongue or given hypodermically for quick action, or given
by the mouth for more prolonged action. In sudden cardiac dyspnea
nitroglycerin sometimes acts specifically, especially when there
is asthma. When a drop or two of the official spirits, which is a
1 percent solution, is given on the tongue, or a soluble tablet of
1/100 grain is dissolved on the tongue, the action is almost as
rapid as though the dose had been administered hypodermically. Many
times when such increased peripheral circulation is desired and
alcohol seems indicated, nitroglycerin in small doses will act as
well. It cannot be termed a cardiac stimulant, although many times
a heart acts better and the pulse is fuller and stronger after
nitroglycerin than before. It should not be used, except if specially
indicated, in broken compensation or in other myocardial
weakness.
Iodids: These have no immediate action. The vasorelaxation that
often occurs from iodid is quite likely due to the stimulation of
the thyroid gland by the iodin, and the thyroid gland secretes a
vasodilating substance. Small doses of iodid, however, when indicated
in various kinds of sclerosis, have seemed to lower blood pressure.Cooke to see me and so spent the
morning, and he gone by and by at noon to dinner, where Mr. Shepley come
and we merry, all being in good humour between my wife and her people
about her, and after dinner took horse, I promising to fetch her away
about fourteen days hence, and so calling all of us, we men on horseback,
and the women and my father, at Goody Gorum's, and there in a frolic
drinking I took leave, there going with me and my boy, my two brothers,
and one Browne, whom they call in mirth Colonell, for our guide, and also
Mr. Shepley, to the end of Huntingdon, and another gentleman who
accidentally come thither, one Mr. Castle; and I made them drink at the
Chequers, where I observed the same tapster, Tom, that was there when I
was a little boy and so we, at the end of the town, took leave of Shepley
and the other gentleman, and so we away and got well to Cambridge, about
seven to the Rose, the waters not being now so high as before.  And here
'lighting, I took my boy and two brothers, and walked to Magdalene
College: and there into the butterys, as a stranger, and there drank my
bellyfull of their beer, which pleased me, as the best I ever drank: and
hear by the butler's man, who was son to Goody Mulliner over against the
College, that we used to buy stewed prunes of, concerning the College and
persons in it; and find very few, only Mr. Hollins and Pechell, I think,
that were of my time.  But I was mightily pleased to come in this
condition to see and ask, and thence, giving the fellow something, away
walked to Chesterton, to see our old walk, and there into the Church, the
bells ringing, and saw the place I used to sit in, and so to the ferry,
and ferried over to the other side, and walked with great pleasure, the
river being mighty high by Barnewell Abbey: and so by Jesus College to the
town, and so to our quarters, and to supper, and then to bed, being very
weary and sleepy and mightily pleased with this night's walk.

26th.  Up by four o'clock; and by the time we were ready, and had eat, we
were called to the coach, where about six o'clock we set out, there being
a man and two women of one company, ordinary people, and one lady alone,
that is tolerably handsome, but mighty well spoken, whom I took great
pleasure in talking to, and did get her to read aloud in a book she was
reading, in the coach, being the King's Meditations;--[The meditations on
death, and prayers used by Charles I. shortly before his execution]--and
then the boy and I to sing, and so about noon come to Bishop's Stafford,
to another house than what we were at the other day, and better used. And
here I paid for the reckoning 11s., we dining together, and pretty merry;
and then set out again, sleeping most part of the way; and got to
Bishopsgate Street before eight o'clock, the waters being now most of them
down, and we avoiding the bad way in the forest by a privy way, which
brought us to Hodsden; and so to Tibalds, that road, which was mighty
pleasant.  So home, where we find all well, and brother Balty and his wife
looking to the house, she mighty fine, in a new gold-laced 'just a cour'.
I shifted myself, and so to see Mrs. Turner, and Mercer appearing over the
way, called her in, and sat and talked, and then home to my house by and
by, and there supped and talked mighty merry, and then broke up and to
bed, being a little vexed at what W. Hewer tells me Sir John Shaw did this
day in my absence say at the Board, complaining of my doing of him injury
and the board permitting it, whereas they had more reason to except
against his attributing that to me alone which I could not do but with
their condent and direction, it being to very good service to the King,
and which I shall be proud to have imputed to me alone.  The King I hear
come to town last night.

27th.  Up, and to the office, where some time upon Sir D. Gawden's
accounts, and then I by water to Westminster for some Tangier orders, and
so meeting with Mr. Sawyers my old chamber-fellow, he and I by water
together to the Temple, he giving me an account of the base, rude usage,
which he and Sir G. Carteret had lately, before the Commissioners of
Accounts, where he was, as Counsel to Sir G. Carteret, which I was sorry
to hear, they behaving themselves like most insolent and ill-mannered men.
Thence by coach to the Exchange, and there met with Sir H. Cholmly at
Colvill's; and there did give him some orders, and so home, and there to
the office again, where busy till two o'clock, and then with Sir D. Gawden
to his house, with my Lord Brouncker and Sir J. Minnes, to dinner, where
we dined very well, and much good company, among others, a Dr., a fat man,
whom by face I know, as one that uses to sit in our church, that after
dinner did take me out, and walked together, who told me that he had now
newly entered himself into Orders, in the decay of the Church, and did
think it his duty so to do, thereby to do his part toward the support and
reformation thereof; and spoke very soberly, and said that just about the
same age Dr. Donne did enter into Orders.  I find him a sober gentleman,
and a man that hath seen much of the world, and I think may do good.
Thence after dinner to the office, and there did a little business, and so
to see Sir W. Pen, who I find still very ill of the goute, sitting in his
great chair, made on purpose for persons sick of that disease, for their
ease; and this very chair, he tells me, was made for my Lady Lambert!
Thence I by coach to my tailor's, there to direct about the making of me
another suit, and so to White Hall, and through St. James's Park to St.
James's, thinking to have met with Mr. Wren, but could not, and so
homeward toward the New Exchange, and meeting Mr. Creed he and I to drink
some whey at the whey-house, and so into the 'Change and took a walk or
two, and so home, and there vexed at my boy's being out of doors till ten
at night, but it was upon my brother Jackson's business, and so I was the
less displeased, and then made the boy to read to me out of Dr. Wilkins
his "Real Character," and particularly about Noah's arke, where he do give
a very good account thereof, shewing how few the number of the several
species of beasts and fowls were that were to be in the arke, and that
there was room enough for them and their food and dung, which do please me
mightily and is much beyond what ever I heard of the subject, and so to
bed.

28th.  Up, to set right some little matters of my Tangier accounts, and so
to the office, where busy all the morning, and then home with my people to
dinner, and after dinner comes about a petition for a poor woman
whose-ticket she would get paid, and so talked a little and did baiser
her, and so to the office, being pleased that this morning my bookseller
brings me home Marcennus's book of musick,' which costs me L3 2s.; but is
a very fine book.  So to the office and did some business, and then by
coach to the New Exchange, and there by agreement at my bookseller's shop
met Mercer and Gayet, and took them by water, first to one of the
Neat-houses, where walked in the garden, but nothing but a bottle of wine
to be had, though pleased with seeing the garden; and so to Fox Hall,
where with great pleasure we walked, and then to the upper end of the
further retired walk, and there sat and sang, and brought great many
gallants and fine people about us, and, upon the bench, we did by and by
eat and drink what we had, and very merry: and so with much pleasure to
the Old Swan, and walked with them home, and there left them, and so I
home to my business at the office a little, and so to bed.

29th.  Betimes up, and up to my Tangier accounts, and then by water to the
Council Chamber, and there received some directions from the Duke of York
and the Committee of the Navy there about casting up the charge of the
present summer's fleete, that so they may come within the bounds of the
sum given by the Parliament.  But it is pretty to see how Prince Rupert
and other mad, silly people, are for setting out but a little fleete,
there being no occasion for it; and say it will be best to save the money
for better uses.  But Sir W. Coventry did declare that, in wisdom, it was
better to do so; but that, in obedience to the Parliament, he was [for]
setting out the fifty sail talked on, though it spent all the money, and
to little purpose; and that this was better than to leave it to the
Parliament to make bad construction of their thrift, if any trouble should
happen.  Thus wary the world is grown!  Thence back again presently home,
and did business till noon: and then to Sir G. Carteret's to dinner, with
much good company, it being the King's birthday, and many healths drunk:
and here I did receive another letter from my Lord Sandwich, which
troubles me to see how I have neglected him, in not writing, or but once,
all this time of his being abroad; and I see he takes notice, but yet
gently, of it, that it puts me to great trouble, and I know not how to get
out of it, having no good excuse, and too late now to mend, he being
coming home.  Thence home, whither, by agreement, by and by comes Mercer
and Gayet, and two gentlemen with them, Mr. Monteith and Pelham, the
former a swaggering young handsome gentleman, the latter a sober citizen
merchant.  Both sing, but the latter with great skill-the other, no skill,
but a good voice, and a good basse, but used to sing only tavern tunes;
and so I spent all this evening till eleven at night singing with them,
till I was tired of them, because of the swaggering fellow with the base,
though the girl Mercer did mightily commend him before to me.  This night
je had agreed par' alter at Deptford, there par' avoir lain con the moher
de Bagwell, but this company did hinder me.

30th.  Up, and put on a new summer black bombazin suit, and so to the
office; and being come now to an agreement with my barber, to keep my
perriwig in good order at 20s. a-year, I am like to go very spruce, more
than I used to do.  All the morning at the office and at noon home to
dinner, and so to the King's playhouse, and there saw "Philaster;" where
it is pretty to see how I could remember almost all along, ever since I
was a boy, Arethusa, the part which I was to have acted at Sir Robert
Cooke's; and it was very pleasant to me, but more to think what a
ridiculous thing it would have been for me to have acted a beautiful
woman.  Thence to Mr. Pierces, and there saw Knepp also, and were merry;
and here saw my little Lady Katherine Montagu come to town, about her
eyes, which are sore, and they think the King's evil, poor, pretty lady.
Here I was freed from a fear that Knepp was angry or might take advantage
to declare the essay that je did the other day, quand je was con her
.  .  . Thence to the New Exchange, and there met Harris and Rolt, and one
Richards, a tailor and great company-keeper, and with these over to Fox
Hall, and there fell into the company of Harry Killigrew, a rogue newly
come back out of France, but still in disgrace at our Court, and young
Newport and others, as very rogues as any in the town, who were ready to
take hold of every woman that come by them.  And so to supper in an
arbour: but, Lord! their mad bawdy talk did make my heart ake!  And here I
first understood by their talk the meaning of the company that lately were
called Ballets; Harris telling how it was by a meeting of some young
blades, where he was among them, and my Lady Bennet

     [Evidently adopted as a cant expression.  The woman here alluded to
     was a procuress well known in her day, and described in the "Tatler"
     (No. 84) as "the celebrated Madam Bennet."  We further learn, from
     the "Spectator" (No. 266), that she was the Lady B. to whom
     Wycherley addressed his ironical dedication of "The Plain Dealer,"
     which is considered as a masterpiece of raillery.  It is worthy of
     remark that the fair sex may justly complain of almost every word in
     the English language designating a woman having, at some time or
     another, been used as a term of reproach; for we find Mother, Madam,
     Mistress, and Miss, all denoting women of bad character; and here
     Pepys adds the title of my Lady to the number, and completes the
     ungracious catalogue.--B.]

and her ladies; and their there dancing naked, and all the roguish things
in the world.  But, Lord! what loose cursed company was this, that I was
in to-night, though full of wit; and worth a man's being in for once, to
know the nature of it, and their manner of talk, and lives.  Thence set
Rolt and some of [them] at the New Exchange, and so I home, and my
business being done at the office, I to bed.

31st (Lord's day).  Up, and to church in the morning.  At noon I sent for
Mr. Mills and his wife and daughter to dine, and they dined with me, and
W. Hewer, and very good company, I being in good humour.  They gone to
church, comes Mr. Tempest, and he and I sang a psalm or two, and so
parted, and I by water to the New Exchange, and there to Mrs. Pierces,
where Knepp, and she, and W. Howe, and Mr. Pierce, and little Betty, over
to Fox Hall, and there walked and supped with great pleasure. Here was
Mrs. Manuel also, and mighty good company, and good mirth in making W.
Howe spend his six or seven shillings, and so they called him altogether
"Cully."  So back, and at Somerset-stairs do understand that a boy is
newly drowned, washing himself there, and they cannot find his body.  So
seeing them home, I home by water, W. Howe going with me, and after some
talk he lay at my house, and all to bed.  Here I hear that Mrs. Davis is
quite gone from the Duke of York's house, and Gosnell comes in her room,
which I am glad of.  At the play at Court the other night, Mrs. Davis was
there; and when she was to come to dance her jigg, the Queene would not
stay to see it, which people do think it was out of displeasure at her
being the King's whore, that she could not bear it. My Lady Castlemayne
is, it seems, now mightily out of request, the King coming little to her,
and thus she mighty melancholy and discontented.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     And will not kiss a woman since his wife's death
     Beating of a poor little dog to death, letting it lie
     City to be burned, and the Papists to cut our throats
     Disorder in the pit by its raining in, from the cupola
     Down to the Whey house and drank some and eat some curds
     Eat some butter and radishes
     Little company there, which made it very unpleasing
     So time do alter, and do doubtless the like in myself
     There setting a poor man to keep my place
     Whom I find in bed, and pretended a little not well


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                               JUNE & JULY
                                   1668

June 1st.  Up and with Sir J. Minnes to Westminster, and in the Hall there
I met with Harris and Rolt, and carried them to the Rhenish wine-house,
where I have not been in a morning--nor any tavern, I think, these seven
years and more.  Here I did get the words of a song of Harris that I
wanted.  Here also Mr. Young and Whistler by chance met us, and drank with
us.  Thence home, and to prepare business against the afternoon, and did
walk an hour in the garden with Sir W. Warren, who do tell me of the great
difficulty he is under in the business of his accounts with the
Commissioners of Parliament, and I fear some inconveniences and troubles
may be occasioned thereby to me.  So to dinner, and then with Sir J.
Minnes to White Hall, and there attended the Lords of the Treasury and
also a committee of Council with the Duke of York about the charge of this
year's fleete, and thence I to Westminster and to Mrs. Martin's, and did
hazer what je would con her, and did once toker la thigh de su landlady,
and thence all alone to Fox Hall, and walked and saw young Newport, and
two more rogues of the town, seize on two ladies, who walked with them an
hour with their masks on; perhaps civil ladies; and there I left them, and
so home, and thence to Mr. Mills's, where I never was before, and here
find, whom I indeed saw go in, and that did make me go thither, Mrs.
Hallworthy and Mrs. Andrews, and here supped, and, extraordinary merry
till one in the morning, Mr. Andrews coming to us: and mightily pleased
with this night's company and mirth I home to bed. Mrs. Turner, too, was
with us.

2nd.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to
dinner, and there dined with me, besides my own people, W. Batelier and
Mercer, and we very merry.  After dinner, they gone, only Mercer and I to
sing a while, and then parted, and I out and took a coach, and called
Mercer at their back-door, and she brought with her Mrs. Knightly,  a
little pretty sober girl, and I carried them to Old Ford, a town by Bow,
where I never was before, and there walked in the fields very pleasant,
and sang: and so back again, and stopped and drank at the Gun, at Mile
End, and so to the Old Exchange door, and did buy them a pound of
cherries, cost me 2s., and so set them down again; and I to my little
mercer's Finch, that lives now in the Minories, where I have left my
cloak, and did here baiser su moher, a belle femme, and there took my
cloak which I had left there, and so by water, it being now about nine
o'clock, down to Deptford, where I have not been many a day, and there it
being dark I did by agreement aller a la house de Bagwell, and there after
a little playing and baisando we did go up in the dark a su camera .  .  .
and to my boat again, and against the tide home.  Got there by twelve
o'clock, taking into my boat, for company, a man that desired a passage--a
certain western bargeman, with whom I had good sport, talking of the old
woman of Woolwich, and telling him the whole story.

3rd.  Up, and to the office, where busy till g o'clock, and then to White
Hall, to the Council-chamber, where I did present the Duke of York with an
account of the charge of the present fleete, to his satisfaction; and this
being done, did ask his leave for my going out of town five or six days,
which he did give me, saying, that my diligence in the King's business was
such, that I ought not to be denied when my own business called me any
whither.  Thence with Sir D. Gawden to Westminster, where I did take a
turn or two, and met Roger Pepys, who is mighty earnest for me to stay
from going into the country till he goes, and to bring my people thither
for some time: but I cannot, but will find another time this summer for
it.  Thence with him home, and there to the office till noon, and then
with Lord Brouncker, Sir J. Minnes, and Sir G. Carteret, upon whose
accounts they have been this day to the Three Tuns to dinner, and thence
back again home, and after doing a little business I by coach to the
King's house, and there saw good, part of "The Scornfull Lady," and that
done, would have takn out Knepp, but she was engaged, and so to my Lord
Crew's to visit him; from whom I learn nothing but that there hath been
some controversy at the Council-table, about my Lord Sandwich's signing,
where some would not have had him, in the treaty with Portugall; but all,
I think, is over in it.  These he notes.
Real attacks of tachycardia may be superimposed on the condition.
Sooner or later, however, if the condition is not stopped, cardiac weakness
and decompensation, with all the usual symptoms, occur. It seems to be
probable that more than half of all cases of heart failure are due to
auricular fibrillation, or at least are aggravated by it.

As previously stated, ventricular fibrillation is a very serious
condition, and may be a cause of sudden death in angina pectoris,
and is probably then caused by disturbed circulation in one of the
coronary arteries causing an irregular blood supply to one or other
of the ventricles.

Absorption of some toxins or poisons which could act on the blood supply
of the ventricles could also be a cause of this condition. This irregular
ventricular contraction sometimes displaces the apex beat.

PATHOLOGY
Schoenberg [Footnote: Schoenberg: Frankfurt. Ztschr. f. Pathol., 1909,
ii, 4.] finds that in auricular fibrillation there are definite signs in
the node, such as round cell infiltration, showing inflammation, a
fibrosis of the tissue, and perhaps a sclerosis of the blood vessels of
that region. He also found that compression of this nodal region of the
auricle from some growth or other disturbance in the mediastinal
region could cause auricular fibrillation.

Jarisch [Footnote: Jarisch: Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., 1914, cxv, 376.]
finds by personal investigations and by studying the literature that
the node showed pathologic disturbance in less than half the cases.
Consequently, although a pathologic condition of the node is a frequent,
and perhaps the most frequent, cause of auricular fibrillation, other
conditions, especially anything which dilates the right auricle, may cause
it.

DIAGNOSIS

     If the pulse is intermittent and there is apparently a heart
     block.
     Stokes-Adams disease should be considered as possibly present, and
     digitalis would be contraindicated and would do harm.

A scientific indication as to whether a heart is disturbed through the
action of the vagi or whether the disturbance is due to muscle
degeneration may be obtained by the administration of atropin.

Talley [Footnote: Talley, James: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., October, 1912.]
of Philadelphia shows the diagnostic value of this drug.

It is a familiar physiologic fact that stimulation of the vagi slows
the heart or even stops it.

Stimulation of these nerves by the electric current, however, does not
destroy the irritability of the heart; indeed, the heart may act by local
stimulation after it has been stopped by pneumogastric stimulation. It
is also a well known fact that anything which inhibits or removes vagus
control of the heart allows the heart to become more rapid, since these
nerves act as a governor to the heart's contractions. Under the influence
of atropin the heart rate is increased by paralysis of the vagi. Talley
states that a hypodermic injection of from 1/50 to 1/25 grain of atropin
produces the same paralytic and rapid heart effect in man. He advises
the use of 1/25 grain of atropin in robust males, and 1/50 grain in females
and in less robust males, and he has seen no serious trouble occur from
such injections. The throat is of course dry, and the eyesight interfered
with for a day or more, but Talley has not seen even insomnia occur,
to say nothing of nervous excitation or delirium. Theoretically, however,
before such atropin dosage, an idiosyncrasy against belladonna should
be determined.

The value of such an injection rests on the fact that atropin thus injected
will increase the normal heart from thirty to forty beats a minute,
and Talley believes that if the heart beat is increased only twenty
or less, if the patient has not been suffering from an exhausting
disease, it shows "a degenerative process in the cardiac tissue
which makes the outlook for improvement under treatment unpromising."

     He also believes that when the heart in auricular fibrillation
     is increased the normal amount or more than normal, the prognosis
     is good. He still further advises in auricular fibrillation an
     injection of atropin before digitalis has been administered, and
     another after digitalis is thoroughly acting.
     Comparison of the findings after these two injections will determine
which factor, vagal or cardiac tissue, is the greater in the condition
present.

The patients with a large cardiac factor are the ones who may be more
improved by the digitalis treatment than those in whom the fibrillation
is caused by vagus disturbance.

PROGNOSIS
The prognosis depends on the condition of the myocardium of the vagus.
If this muscle is intact, and there is no pathologic condition in the
sinus node (which can be proved by the successful results of treatment),
the removal of all toxins that could increase the activity of the heart,
and the administration of digitalis, which will slow the heart by stimulating
the pneumogastric control of the heart, will produce a cure, temporary,
if not permanent.

Although a patient with auricular fibrillation may have been
incapacitated by this heart activity, he may not yet have dilated ventricles,
and the digitalis need perhaps not be long continued. If on account of
some heart strain or some unaccountable cause the fibrillation recurs, he
of course must again receive the digitalis.
If the auricular fibrillation is superimposed, or is followed by dilated
ventricles and decompensation, the prognosis is bad, although the condition
may be improved. In other words, auricular fibrillation added to these
conditions is serious, but still, many times a patient may be greatly
improved by rest, digitalis, careful diet, proper care of the bowels, etc.
If the fibrillation occurs with or was apparently caused by the dilatation
of the ventricles, the prognosis of improvement may be good. If the
dilatation of the ventricles occurs following auricular fibrillation, the
prognosis is not good.

White [Footnote: White: Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Dec. 2, 1915.] after
studying 200 heart cases, finds that auricular fibrillation and alternating
pulse, as well as heart block, are more frequent in men than in women,
and both auricular fibrillation and alternating pulse are more apt
to occur after 50 years of age than before.

Auricular fibrillation may occur in hearts which are suffering from valvular
lesions, especially mitral stenosis, and may occur in syphilitic
hearts, in various sclerotic conditions of the heart, and in
hyperthyroidism.

Though disputed, it seems probable that fibrillation may be caused by
the excessive use of tea, coffee and tobacco. Paroxysmal tachycardias
are certainly caused by these substances, and the conditions of auricular
fibrillation and auricular flutter may be found frequently present if such
hearts are carefully examined with cardiographic instruments.

TREATMENT
The condition may be stopped by relieving the heart and circulation of
all possible toxins and irritants, and by the administration of digitalis.
One attack is frequently followed by others, perhaps of longer
duration. Occasionally, however, the patient may be observed for many
years without the condition again being present. If the pulse, in spite
of treatment, is permanently irregular, and auricular insufficiency
is permanent, the patient is of course in danger of cardiac failure; but
still he may live for years and die of some other cause than heart
failure. The prognosis is better when the pulse is not rapid--below a
hundred.

     This shows that the ventricles are not much excited and do not tend
     to wear themselves out.

Any treatment which lowers the heart rate is of advantage, such as the
stopping of tea and coffee, and the administration of digitalis, together
with rest and quiet.

While large doses of digitalis are advised, and large doses are given as
soon as a patient with auricular fibrillation comes under treatment, such
large dosage is dangerous practice. Many patients may be cured or may
survive fluidram doses of the official tincture, but such large doses
should never be used unless it is decided, after consultation, that,
though dangerous, it may be a life-saving treatment.

If a patient has not been receiving digitalis, it is best to begin with a
small close and gradually increase the dosage, rather than to give the
heart a sudden shock from an enormous dose of digitalis.
The preparation selected must be the best obtainable, but the exact
dosage of any preparation can be determined only by its effect, as all
preparations of digitalis deteriorate sooner or later. It is well to
administer digitalis at first three times a day, then as soon as its action
is thoroughly established, reduce to twice a day, and later to once a day,
in such dosage as is needed to make a profound impression on the heart.
The first dose may be from 5 to 10 drops, and the dosage may be increased
by 5 drops at each dose, until improvement is obtained. If the patient
is in a momentary serious condition and liable to die of heart failure, it
is doubtful if digitalis pushed at that time will be of benefit.

On the other hand, if, after consultation, it is deemed advisable to give
half a fluidram or more of digitalis at once, it is justifiable.
It should be emphasized that the proper dose of digitalis is enough to do
the work. If within a few days there is no marked improvement, the
prognosis is not good. Also, if the digitalis causes cardiac pain when
such was not present, or increases cardiac pains already in evidence,
and causes a tight feeling in the chest, nausea or vomiting, or a
diminished amount of urine, and a tight, bandlike feeling in the head,
digitalis is not acting well, and should be stopped, or the dose is too
large. Also, if there is kidney insufficiency, or if the digitalis
diminishes the output of urine, it generally should be stopped.

If the blood pressure is high, and perhaps almost always, even in those
who are accustomed to the use of it, tobacco should be stopped. Tea and
coffee should always be withheld from such patients.

The food and drink should be small in amount, frequently given, and should
be such as especially to meet the needs of the individual, depending
entirely on his general condition and the condition of his kidneys.

PULSUS ALTERNANS
By this term is meant that condition of pulse in which, though the rhythm
is normal, strong and weak pulsations alternate. White [Footnote: White:
Am. Jour. Med. Sc., July, 1915, p. 82.] has shown that this condition
is not infrequent, as demonstrated by polygraphic tracings. He found such
a condition present In seventy- one out of 300 patients examined, and
he believes that if every decompensating heart with arrhythmia was graphically
examined, this condition would be frequently found. The alternation may
be constant, or it may occur in phases. It is due to a diminished
contractile power of the heart when the heart muscle has become weakened
and a more or less rapid heart action is present.

Gordinier [Footnote: Gordinier: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., February, 1915, p. 174.]
finds that most of these patients with alternating pulse are
suffering from general arteriosclerosis, hypertension, chronic myocarditis,
and chronic nephritis, in other words, with cardiovascularrenal disease.
He finds that it frequently occurs with Cheyne-Stokes respiration, and
continues until death. He also finds that the condition is not uncommon in
dilated hearts, especially in mitral disease, and with other symptoms
of decompensation.

White found that about half of his cases of pulsus alternans showed an
increased blood pressure of 160 mm. or more; 62 percent. were in patients
over 50 years of age, and 69 percent. were in men.

     Necropsics on patients who died of this condition showed coronary
     sclerosis and arteriosclerotic kidneys.
     
     The onset of dyspnea, with a rapid pulse, should lead one to suspect
     pulsus alternans when such a condition occurs in a person over 50
     with cardiovascular-renal disease, arid with signs of decompensation,
     and also when such a condition occurs with a patient who has a
     history of angina pectoris.
     
     While the forcefulness of the varying beats of an alternating pulse
     may be measured by blood pressure instruments by the auscultatory
method, White and Lunt [Footnote: White, P.

D. and Lunt, L. K.: The Detection of Pulsus Alternans, THE JOURNAL A. M.
A., April 29, 1916, p. 1383.] find that in only about 30 percent. of the
cases, the graver types of the condition, is this a practical procedure.

Pulsus alternans, except when it is very temporary, Gordinier finds to be
of grave import, as it shows myocardial degeneration, and most patients
will die from cardiac insufficiency in less than three years from the
onset of the disturbance.

The treatment is rest in bed and digitalis, but White found that in
only four patients out of fifty-three so treated was the alternating pulse
either "diminished or banished." In a word, the only treatment is that of
decompensation and a dilated heart, and when such a condition occurs and
is not immediately improved, the prognosis is bad, under any
treatment.

BRADYCARDIA
The first decision to be made is what constitutes a slow pulse or slow
heart. A pulse below 58 or 60 beats per minute should be considered slow,
and anything below 50 should be considered abnormally slow and a
condition more or less suspicious.

     A pulse from 45 to 50 per minute occasionally occurs when no pathologic
     excuse can be found, but such a slow rate is unusual. Before determining
     that the heart is slow, it must of course be carefully examined
to determine if there are beats which are not transmitted to the
wrist; also whether a slow radial rate is not due to intermitence
or a heart block.

              Auricular fibrillation, while generally causing
               a rapid pulse (though by no means all beats are transmitted to the
peripheral arteries), tray cause a slow pulse because some of the
contractions of the heart are not transmitted.

     While any pulse rate below 50 should be considered abnormal and
     more or less pathologic, still a pulse rate no lower than 60 may,
be very abnormal for the individual.

              For athletes and those who work hard physically,
               a slow pulse is normal.

     Such hearts are often not even normally stimulated by high fever,
     so that the pulse is unusually slow, considering the patient's
     temperature, unless inflammation of the heart has occurred.
     
     Some chronic diseases cause a slow pulse; this is especially true
of chronic interstitial nephritis.

In fact, it may be stated that any disease or condition which increases
the blood pressure generally slows the pulse, unless the heart itself is
affected. This is true of hypertension, of arteriosclerosis, of nicotin
unless the heart has become injured, and often of caffein, unless it
acts in the individual as a nervous stimulant. Chronic lead poisoning causes
a slow pulse on account of the increased blood pressure.

A slow pulse may occur during convalescence from acute infections, such as
typhoid fever and pneumonia, and sometimes after septic processes.
While it may not be serious in these conditions, it should always
be carefully watched, as it may show a serious myocarditis.

While weakness generally and myocarditis, at least oil exertion or
nervous excitation or after eating, cause a heart to be rapid, still
such a heart may act sluggishly when the patient is at rest, so
that he feels faint and weak and disinclined to attempt even the
slightest exertion.

In such a condition calcium, iron and strychnin, not too frequently or in
too large doses, and perhaps caffein, are indicated. Camphor is always a
valuable stimulant, more or less frequently administered, during
such a period of slow heart.

     This slow heart sometimes occurs after rheumatic fever; it is quite
     frequent after diphtheria, and may show a disturbance of the
     vagi.
     

Although the prognosis of such slow hearts after serious illness is generally
good, a heart that is too rapid after illness is often more readily brought
to normal by proper management than a heart which is too slow. Either
condition needs proper treatment and proper management.

It is well recognized that serious, almost major hysteria may be present
and the heart not only not be increased, but it may even be slowed. The
heart in this condition of course requires no treatment.
In cerebral disturbances, especially when there is cerebral pressure, and
more particularly if there is pressure in the fourth ventricle, the pulse
may be much slowed. It is often slowed in connection with Cheyne-Stokes
respiration. It may be very slow after apoplexy, and when there are brain
tumors. It is often much slowed in narcotic poisoning, especially in
opium, chloral and bromid poisoning. Serious toxemia from alcohol may cause
a heart to be very slow. It is more likely, however, to cause a heart
to be rapid, unless there is actual coma.

A frequent condition causing a slowing of the heart is the presence of
bile in the blood, typically true of catarrhal jaundice. Uremic poisoning
and acidemia and coma of diabetes tray cause a pulse to be very slow.

Not infrequently after parturition the heart quiets down from its exertion
to a rate below normal. If the urine is known to be free from albumin and
casts, and there are no signs of impending eclampsia, the slow pulse is
indicative of no serious trouble; but the urine should be carefully
examined and a possible uremia or other cause of eclampsia carefully
considered. Sometimes with serious edema and after serious hemorrhage the
heart becomes very slow, unless some exertion is made, when it will
beat more rapidly than normal. This probably represents a diminished
cardiac nutrition.
The cardiac lesions which cause a pulse to be slow are sclerosis
or thrombosis of the coronary arteries, fatty degeneration of the
myocardium, and Stokes-Adams disease.
It is seen, therefore, that when a pulse is slower than normal,
even below 65 beats per minute, the cause should be sought. If no
functional or pathologic excuse is discovered, it must be considered
normal, for the individual, and, as stated above, even 58 or 60
beats per minute are in many instances normal for men. This is
especially true with beginning hypertension, and may be true in
young men who are athletic or who are oversmoking but are not being
poisoned by the nicotin, as shown by the fact that their hearts are
not rapid, that they are not having cardiac pains, that they do not
perspire profusely, and that they do not have muscle cramps. A pulse
of from 50 to 55 is likely to be seriously considered by an insurance
company in deciding the advisability of the risk, and below 50 must
be considered as abnormal.

SYMPTOMS
If a person has been long accustomed to a slow-acting heart, there
are no symptoms. If the heart has become slowed from disease or
from any acute condition, the patient is likely to feel more or
less faint, perhaps have some dizzines, and often headache, which
is generally relieved by lying down. Sometimes convulsions may
occur, epileptiform in character, due possibly to anemia or irritation
of the brain. If the slow heart does not cause these more serious
symptoms, the patient may feel week and unable to attend to his
ordinary duties. As previously urged an abnormally slow heart after
serious illness should be as carefully cared for as a too rapid
heart under the same conditions. Probably often a myocarditis and
perhaps some fatty degeneration are at the base of such a slowed
heart after serious infections.
A heart which has not always been slow but has gradually become
slow with the progress of hypertension and arteriosclerosis will
often disclose on postmortem examination serious lesions of the
coronary arteries.
Deficiency in the thyroid secretion will always cause a heart to
be slower than normal.In the afternoon come to Abebury, where, seeing
great stones like those of Stonage standing up, I stopped, and took a
countryman of that town, and he carried me and shewed me a place trenched
in, like Old Sarum almost, with great stones pitched in it, some bigger
than those at Stonage in figure, to my great admiration: and he told me
that most people of learning, coming by, do come and view them, and that
the King did so: and that the Mount cast hard by is called Selbury, from
one King Seall buried there, as tradition says.  I did give this man 1s.
So took coach again, seeing one place with great high stones pitched
round, which, I believe, was once some particular building, in some
measure like that of Stonage.  But, about a mile off, it was prodigious to
see how full the Downes are of great stones; and all along the vallies,
stones of considerable bigness, most of them growing certainly  out of the
ground so thick as to cover the ground, which makes me think the less of
the wonder of Stonage, for hence they might undoubtedly supply themselves
with stones, as well as those at Abebury. In my way did give to the poor
and menders of the highway 3s.  Before night, come to  Marlborough, and
lay at the Hart; a good house, and a pretty fair town for a street or two;
and what is most singular is, their houses on one side having their
pent-houses supported with pillars, which makes it a good walk.  My wife
pleased with all, this evening reading of "Mustapha" to me till supper,
and then to supper, and had musique whose innocence pleased me, and I did
give them 3s.  So to bed, and lay well all night, and long, so as all the
five coaches that come this day from Bath, as well as we, were gone out of
the town before six.

16th (Tuesday).  So paying the reckoning, 14s. 4d., and servants, 2s.,
poor 1s., set out; and overtook one coach and kept a while company with
it, till one of our horses losing a shoe, we stopped and drank and spent
1s.  So on, and passing through a good part of this county of Wiltshire,
saw a good house of Alexander Popham's, and another of my Lord Craven's, I
think in Barkeshire.  Come to Newbery, and there dined, which cost me, and
musick, which a song of the old courtier of Queen Elizabeth's, and how he
was changed upon the coming in of the King, did please me mightily, and I
did cause W. Hewer to write it out, 3s. 6d.  Then comes the reckoning,
forced to change gold, 8s. 7d.; servants and poor, 1s. 6d.  So out, and
lost our way, which made me vexed, but come into it again; and in the
evening betimes come to Reading, and there heard my wife read more of
"Mustapha," and then to supper, and then I to walk about the town, which
is a very great one, I think bigger than Salsbury: a river runs through
it, in seven branches, and unite in one, in one part of the town, and runs
into the Thames half-a-mile off one odd sign of the Broad Face.  W. Hewer
troubled with the headake we had none of his company last night, nor all
this day nor night to talk.  Then to my inn, and so to bed.

17th (Wednesday).  Rose, and paying the reckoning, 12s. 6d.; servants and
poor, 2s. 6d.; musick, the worst we have had, coming to our chamber-door,
but calling us by wrong names, we lay; so set out with one coach in
company, and through Maydenhead, which I never saw before, to Colebrooke
by noon; the way mighty good; and there dined, and fitted ourselves a
little to go through London, anon.  Somewhat out of humour all day,
reflecting on my wife's neglect of things, and impertinent humour got by
this liberty of being from me, which she is never to be trusted with; for
she is a fool.  Thence pleasant way to London, before night, and find all
very well, to great content; and there to talk with my wife, and saw Sir
W. Pen, who is well again.  I hear of the ill news by the great fire at
Barbados.  By and by home, and there with my people to supper, all in
pretty good humour, though I find my wife hath something in her gizzard,
that only waits an opportunity of being provoked to bring up; but I will
not, for my content-sake, give it.  So I to bed, glad to find all so well
here, and slept well.

          [The rough notes end here.]

18th.  Up betimes and to the office, there to set my papers in order and
books, my office having been new whited and windows made clean, and so to
sit, where all the morning, and did receive a hint or two from my Lord
Anglesey, as if he thought much of my taking the ayre as I have done; but
I care not a turd; but whatever the matter is, I think he hath some
ill-will to me, or at least an opinion that I am more the servant of the
Board than I am.  At noon home to dinner, where my wife still in a
melancholy, fusty humour, and crying, and do not tell me plainly what it
is; but I by little words find that she hath heard of my going to plays,
and carrying people abroad every day, in her absence; and that I cannot
help but the storm will break out, I think, in a little time.  After
dinner carried her by coach to St. James's, where she sat in the coach
till I to my Lady Peterborough's, who tells me, among other things, her
Lord's good words to the Duke of York lately, about my Lord Sandwich, and
that the Duke of York is kind to my Lord Sandwich, which I am glad to
hear: my business here was about her Lord's pension from Tangier.  Here
met with Povy, who tells me how hard Creed is upon him, though he did give
him, about six months since, I think he said, fifty pieces in gold; and
one thing there is in his accounts that I fear may touch me, but I shall
help it, I hope.  So my wife not speaking a word, going nor coming, nor
willing to go to a play, though a new one, I to the Office, and did much
business.  At night home, where supped Mr. Turner and his wife, and Betty
and Mercer and Pelling, as merry as the ill, melancholy humour that my
wife was in, would let us, which vexed me; but I took no notice of it,
thinking that will be the best way, and let it wear away itself.  After
supper, parted, and to bed; and my wife troubled all night, and about one
o'clock goes out of the bed to the girl's bed, which did trouble me, she
crying and sobbing, without telling the cause.  By and by she comes back
to me, and still crying; I then rose, and would have sat up all night, but
she would have me come to bed again; and being pretty well pacified, we to
sleep.

19th.  When between two and three in the morning we were waked with my
maids crying out, "Fire, fire, in Markelane!" So I rose and looked out,
and it was dreadful; and strange apprehensions in me, and us all, of being
presently burnt.  So we all rose; and my care presently was to secure my
gold, and plate, and papers, and could quickly have done it, but I went
forth to see where it was; and the whole town was presently in the
streets; and I found it in a new-built house that stood alone in
Minchin-lane, over against the Cloth-workers'-hall, which burned
furiously: the house not yet quite finished; and the benefit of brick was
well seen, for it burnt all inward, and fell down within itself; so no
fear of doing more hurt.  So homeward, and stopped at Mr. Mills's, where
he and she at the door, and Mrs. Turner, and Betty, and Mrs. Hollworthy,
and there I stayed and talked, and up to the church leads, and saw the
fire, which spent itself, till all fear over.  I home, and there we to bed
again, and slept pretty well, and about nine rose, and then my wife fell
into her blubbering again, and at length had a request to make to me,
which was, that she might go into France, and live there, out of trouble;
and then all come out, that I loved pleasure and denied her any, and a
deal of do; and I find that there have been great fallings out between my
father and her, whom, for ever hereafter, I must keep asunder, for they
cannot possibly agree.  And I said nothing, but, with very mild words and
few, suffered her humour to spend, till we begun to be very quiet, and I
think all will be over, and friends, and so I to the office, where all the
morning doing business.  Yesterday I heard how my Lord Ashly is like to
die, having some imposthume in his breast, that he hath been fain to be
cut into the body.

     ["Such an operation was performed in this year, after a consultation
     of medical men, and chiefly by Locke's advice, and the wound was
     afterwards always kept open, a silver pipe being inserted.  This
     saved Lord Ashley's life, and gave him health"--Christie's Life of
     the first Earl of Shaftesbury, vol. ii., p. 34.  'Tapski' was a name
     given to Shaftesbury in derision, and vile defamers described the
     abscess, which had originated in a carriage accident in Holland, as
     the result of extreme dissipation.  Lines by Duke, a friend and
     imitator of Dryden:

              "The working ferment of his active mind,
               In his weak body's cask with pain confined,
               Would burst the rotten vessel where 'tis pent,
               But that 'tis tapt to give the treason vent."]

At noon home to dinner, and thence by coach to White Hall, where we
attended the Duke of York in his closet, upon our usual business.  And
thence out, and did see many of the Knights of the Garter, with the King
and Duke of York, going into the Privychamber, to elect the Elector of
Saxony into that Order, who, I did hear the Duke of York say, was a good
drinker: I know not upon what score this compliment is done him.  Thence
with W. Pen, who is in great pain of the gowte, by coach round by Holborne
home, he being at every kennel full of pain. Thence home, and by and by
comes my wife and Deb. home, have been at the King's playhouse to-day,
thinking to spy me there; and saw the new play, "Evening Love," of
Dryden's, which, though the world commends, she likes not.  So to supper
and talk, and all in good humour, and then to bed, where I slept not well,
from my apprehensions of some trouble about some business of Mr. Povy's he
told me of the other day.

20th.  Up, and talked with my wife all in good humour, and so to the
office, where all the morning, and then home to dinner, and so she and I
alone to the King's house, and there I saw this new play my wife saw
yesterday, and do not like it, it being very smutty, and nothing so good
as "The Maiden Queen," or "The Indian Emperour," of his making, that I was
troubled at it; and my wife tells me wholly (which he confesses a little
in the epilogue) taken out of the "Illustre Bassa."  So she to Unthanke's
and I to Mr. Povy, and there settled some business; and here talked of
things, and he thinks there will be great revolutions, and that Creed will
be a great man, though a rogue, he being a man of the old strain, which
will now be up again.  So I took coach, and set Povy down at Charing
Cross, and took my wife up, and calling at the New Exchange at Smith's
shop, and kissed her pretty hand, and so we home, and there able to do
nothing by candlelight, my eyes being now constantly so bad that I must
take present advice or be blind.  So to supper, grieved for my eyes, and
to bed.

21st (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, and home and dined with my wife and
Deb. alone, but merry and in good humour, which is, when all is done, the
greatest felicity of all, and after dinner she to read in the "Illustre
Bassa" the plot of yesterday's play, which is most exactly the same, and
so to church I alone, and thence to see Sir W. Pen, who is ill again, and
then home, and there get my wife to read to me till supper, and then to
bed.

22nd.  Up, and with Balty to St. James's, and there presented him to Mr.
Wren about his being Muster-Master this year, which will be done.  So up
to wait on the Duke of York, and thence, with W. Coventry, walked to White
Hall good discourse about the Navy, where want of money undoes us. Thence
to the Harp and Ball I to drink, and so to the Coffee-house in Covent
Garden; but met with nobody but Sir Philip Howard, who shamed me before
the whole house there, in commendation of my speech in Parliament, and
thence I away home to dinner alone, my wife being at her tailor's, and
after dinner comes Creed, whom I hate, to speak with me, and before him
comes Mrs. Daniel about business .  .  .  .  She gone, Creed and I to the
King's playhouse, and saw an act or two of the new play ["Evening's Love"]
again, but like it not.  Calling this day at Herringman's, he tells me
Dryden do himself call it but a fifth-rate play.  Thence with him to my
Lord Brouncker's, where a Council of the Royall Society; and there heard
Mr. Harry Howard's' noble offers about ground for our College, and his
intentions of building his own house there most nobly. My business was to
meet Mr. Boyle, which I did, and discoursed about my eyes; and he did give
me the best advice he could, but refers me to one Turberville, of
Salsbury, lately come to town, which I will go to.

     [Daubigny Turberville, of Oriel College; created M.D. at
     Oxford,1660.  He was a physician of some eminence, and, dying at
     Salisbury on the 21st April, 1696, aged eighty-five, he was buried
     in the cathedral, where his monument remains.  Cassan, in his "Lives
     of the Bishops of Sarum," part iii., p. 103, has reprinted an
     interesting account of Turberville, from the "Memoir of Bishop Seth
     Ward," published in 1697, by Dr. Walter Pope.  Turberville was born
     at Wayford, co. If it causes tachycardia, nervous excitement, sleeplessness
     or loss of weight, it is doing harm and the dose is too large, or it
     is not indicated. The dose for the cardiac action desired is a
     tablet representing from 1/2 to 1 grain of the active
     substalice of the thyroid gland, given once a day, continued for
     a long period.
     

When an improved peripheral circulation is desired, and especially when
a reduction of the pressure in the heart is desired and a diminished amount
of blood in overfilled arteries is indicated, the value of the sitzbath,
hot foot-baths, warm liquids (not hot) in the stomach, and warm,
moist applications to the abdomen should all be remembered.

4.

Cardiac Nutritives.--Iron: Nothing is of more value to a weakened heart
muscle, when the nutrition is low, the patient anemic, and the iron of
the food not properly metabolized, than tonic doses of some iron
salt. It has frequently been repeated, but should constantly be reiterated,
that there is no physiologic reason or therapeutic excuse for the patient
to pay a large amount of money for some organic iron preparation.

Small doses of an inorganic salt act perfectly, and nothing will act better.
As previously suggested, a drop or two of the tincture of iron, a
grain or two of the reduced iron, or 2 or 3 grains of saccharated
ferric oxid, given once or twice in twenty-four hours, is all the
iron the body needs from the points of view of the blood and the
heart.

Calcium: It has lately been learned that calcium is an element which a heart
needs for perfect activity. Many patients who are ill lose their
calcium, and they may not receive a sufficient amount of it unless
milk is given them. Even if such patients are taking milk, the
heart and the whole general condition sometimes such; to improve when calcium
is added to the diet. It may be given either in the form of lime water,
calcium lactate or calcium glycerophosphate. If a medium-sized dose is
given three or four times in twenty-four hours, it is sufficient and will
often act for good.

Whether calcium can do harm in a chronic endocarditis or an arteriosclerosis
to offset the value that it seems to have in quieting the nervous system
and in being of value to a weak or nervously irritable heart is a
question which has not been decided.

Theoretically lime should not be given when there is a tendency to
calcification, or when a patient is past middle age. Lime seems to be
essential to youth, and to the welfare of nervous patients.

EMERGENCIES

5. Cardiac Emergency Drugs.--Besides some of the drugs already mentioned
(such as camphor hypodermically, nitroglycerin when indicated,
strophanthin hypodermically or intravenously, caffein and strychnin), often
ergot, suprarenal vasopressor principle, pituitary vasopressor principle,
atropin and morphin should be considered.

When there is low blood pressure, venous stasis, pulmonary congestion,
cyanosis and a laboring, failing heart, intramuscular injections of ergot,
with or without coincident venesection, may be the most valuable method
of combating the condition.

Life has been saved in this kind of sudden acute cardiac failure in
valvular disease. When venesection is not indicated in certain conditions
of low blood pressure and heart failure, ergot has saved life. It causes
contraction of the blood vessels and seems to tone the heart.
Incidentally it quiets the central nervous system. If the blood pressure
is much increased by it, the ergot should not be repeated, as too
much work should not be thrown on the heart muscle. Often, however,
it may be administered intramuscularly with advantage in aseptic
preparation as offered in ampules, at the rate of one ampule every
three hours for two or three times, and then once in six hours for
a few times, the future frequency depending on the indications.

Epinephrin and Pituitary Extract: The blood pressure-raising substance of
the suprarenals or of the pituitary gland (hypophysis cerebri) has been
much used in heart failure. These substances certainly would not be
indicated in high blood pressure; they are indicated in low blood pressure.
They have been given intravenously; they are frequently given hypodermically.
They often act rapidly when a solution in proper dose is
dropped on the tongue. The blood pressure rise from epinephrin is quickly
over; that from the pituitary extract lasts longer. In large doses, or
when it is too frequently repeated, epinephrin depresses the respiration.
Pituitary extract acts as a diuretic. Sterilized solutions of both, put
up in ampules ready for hypodermic medication, are obtainable, the strength
offered generally being 1 part of the active principle to 10,000 of
the solution. Hypodermic tablets of epinephrin may also be obtained.
Stronger solutions of 1 part to 1,000 may be dropped on the tongue, or
tablets may be dissolved on the tongue. The blood pressure is temporarily
raised and the heart stimulated by these treatments, but epinephrin is not
used so often for cardiac failure as it was a short time ago.

The most satisfactory action, especially from the epinephrin, is
from small doses frequently repeated.

Sometimes in serious emergencies it has been found to be of value when given
intravenously in physiologic saline solution. The close, of course,
should be very small. In circulatory weakness in acute illness,
epinephrin has been given regularly, a few drops (perhaps the most frequent
dose is 5) of a 1: 1,000 solution, on the tongue, once in six hours.
Such a dosage may be of value, and certainly is better than the administration
of too much strychnin. Much larger or more frequent doses are likely, as
just stated, to depress the respiration.

Besides the small amount of blood pressure-raising substance secreted
by the hypophysis cerebri. it has not been shown that any other
gland of the body furnishes vasopressor substance except the
suprarenals.

                Atropin: When there is great cardiac weakness, atropin may be used
to advantage.

            The dose is from 1/200 to 1/150 grain hypodermically, not repeated
in many hours.

   It will whip up a flagging heart, more or less increase the blood
pressure, cause cerebral awakening, and may often be of value. If there
                      is any idiosyncrasy against atropin, if the throat and mouth are
made intensely dry, or if there is serious flushing or cerebral
excitement, the dose should not be repeated.

                              Morphin: This would rarely be considered as an emergency drug in
cardiac weakness.

                      A small dose of it, not more than one-eighth grain, especially if
combined with atropin, will often quiet and brace a weak heart,
especially when there is cardiac pain.

                        Just which drug or drugs should be used and just which are not
indicated can never be specifically outlined in a textbook, a lecture
or a paper.

                        The decision can be made only at the bedside, and then mistakes,
many times unavoidable, are often made.

                          In all conditions of
                                  shock
                                  with cardiac failure, the blood vessels of the abdomen and splauclinic
system are dilated, and more or less of the blood of the body is
lost in these large veins, and the peripheral and cerebral blood
pressure fails.

The advantage in such a condition of firm abdominal bandages, and
of raising the foot of the bed or of raising the feet and legs, need only
be mentioned to be understood.

It is a pretty good working rule, in cardiac failure, not to do too much.
On the other hand, life is frequently saved by proper treatment, and the
physician repeatedly saves life as surely as does the surgeon with his
knife.

CONVALESCENCE
When compensation has been restored, the patient may be allowed gradually
to resume his usual habits and work, provided these habits are sensible,
and the work is not one requiring severe muscular exertion. Careful
rules and regulations must be laid down for him, depending on his age and
the condition of his arteries, kidneys and heart muscle. It should be
remembered that a patient over 40, who has had broken compensation,
is always in more dancer of a recurrence of this weakness than one
who is younger, as after 40 the blood pressure normally increases
in all persons, and this normal increase may be just too much for
a compensating heart which is overcoming all of the handicap that
it can withstand.

Such patients, then, should be more carefully restricted in their
habits of life, and also should have longer and more frequent periods
of rest.

The avoidance of all sudden exertion in any instance in which compensation
has just been restored is too important not to be frequently repeated.
The child must be prevented from hard playing, even running with other
children, to say nothing of bicycle riding, tennis playing, baseball,
football, rowing, etc. The older boy and girl may need to be restricted
in their athletic pleasures, and dancing should often be prohibited.

Young adults may generally, little by little, assume most of their ordinary
habits of life; but carrying heavy weights upstairs, going up more than
one flight of stairs rapidly, hastening or running on the street for
any purpose, and exertion, especially after eating a large meal, must all
be prohibited. Graded physical exercise or athletic work, however,
is essential for the patients' future health, and first walking and later
more energetic exercise may be advisable.

These patients must not become chilled, as they are liable to catch cold,
and a cold with them must not be neglected, as coughing or lung congestions
are always more serious in valvular disease. Their feet and hands, which
are often cold, should be properly clothed to keep them warm. Chilling
of the extremities drives the blood to the interior of the body, increases
congestion there, and by peripheral contraction raises the general blood
pressure. A weak heart generally needs the blood pressure strengthened,
but a compensating heart rarely needs an increase in peripheral blood
pressure, and any great increase from any reason is a disadvantage to
such a heart.

The patient should sleep in a well ventilated room, but should not suffer
the severe exposures that are advocated for pulmonary tuberculosis, as
severe chilling of the body must absolutely be avoided.

The peripheral circulation is improved, the skin is kept healthy, the general
circulation is equalized, and the heart is relieved by a proper frequency
of warm baths. Cold baths are generally inadvisable, whether the plunge,
shower or sponging; very hot baths are inadvisable on account of causing
a great deal of faintness; while warm baths are not stimulating and are
sedative. The Turkish and Russian bath should be prohibited. They are never
advisable in cardiac disease. With kidney insufficiency, body hot-air
treatment (body-baking), carefully supervised, may greatly benefit a
patient who has no dilatation of the heart and who has no serious broken
compensation. Surfbathing, and, generally, sea-bathing and lake-
bathing are not advisable.

The artificial sea-salt baths and carbon dioxid baths may do some
good, but they do not lower the general blood pressure so surely as has
been advocated, and probably no great advantage is apt to be derived
from such baths. If a patient cannot properly exercise, massage should be
given him intermittently.

Any systemic need should be supplied.

If the patient is anemic, he should receive iron. If he has no appetite, he
should be encouraged by bitter tonics. If sleep does not come
naturally, it must be induced by such means as do not injure the heart.

Perhaps there is no better place in this series on diseases of the heart
to discuss the diet in general and the resort treatment than at this
point, as the question is one of moment after convalescence from a broken
compensation, at which time every means must be inaugurated to
establish a reserve heart strength to overcome the daily emergencies
of life.

     DIET AND BATHS IN HEART DISEASE
     
     The diet in cardiac diseases has already incidentally been referred
     to. The decision as to what a patient ought to eat or drink must often
     be modified by just what the patient will do, and, as we all know,
     it is absolutely necessary to make some concessions in order for
him to aid us in hastening his own recovery or in preventing him
from having relapses.

Consequently, we cannot be dogmatic with most patients with chronic
heart disease.

     Parents should be prohibited from allowing children or adolescents
     with heart disease to drink tea, coffee or any alcoholic stimulant.
     The young boy and young man must absolutely be prohibited from
indulging in tobacco at all.

There is no excuse for allowing these stimulants or foods in such cases.
If the patient is older and has been accustomed to tea and coffee, one
cup of coffee in the morning may be allowed, provided a decaffeinated
coffee is not found satisfactory. Whether a small cup of coffee or a cup
of tea is allowed at noon is again a matter for individualization; they
should rarely be allowed after the noon meal. In a patient who has been
accustomed to alcohol regularly (generally an older patient), careful
judgment should be used in deciding whether or not a small amount of
alcohol daily should be allowed. It should never be in large amounts,
even of a dilute alcohol like beer; it may be a weak wine; it may be a small
amount of diluted whisky, if seems best. Ordinarily the patient is better
without it. If he is used to smoking and a small amount does not
raise the blood pressure much, it may do him no harm to smoke a small
mild cigar once or twice a clay. On the other hand, if a hard
smoker suddenly has heart failure, whether from exertion, from chronic
disease or from acute illness, a small amount of smoking is of advantage
as it tends to remove cardiac irritability, to raise the blood
pressure, and actually to quiet and improve the circulation.

It is unwise during acute circulatory failure to take tobacco away
entirely from a chronic tobacco user.

The character of the food which each patient should receive depends
on his blood pressure and his age. The older person with a tendency to
high blood pressure should have the protein (especially meat) reduced
in amount, as any putrefaction in the intestine with absorption of products
of such maldigestion irritates the blood vessels, raises the blood pressure,
and injuries the kidneys. On the other hand, a young patient should
receive a sufficient meat diet rather than be overloaded with vegetables
and starches, to the easy production of fermentation and gas.

Flatulence from any cause must be avoided. It dilates the stomach and
intestines, causing them to press on the diaphragm, so that the heart and
respiration are interfered with. Also, an increased abdominal pressure,
especially if there is any edema or dropsy, is bad for the circulation. A
distended, tense abdomen is serious in cardiac failure. On the
other hand, a flaccid, flabby, lax abdomen should be well bandaged in
cardiac failure with low blood pressure.

Children do well on a milk diet, but it should be remembered that excessive
amounts of any liquid, even milk and water, are inadvisable, if the
circulation is poor and there is a tendency to dropsy. It has been recommended
at times to limit a patient's diet for a week or so to a small
amount of milk, not more than a quart in twenty-four hours. If such
a patient is in bed and does not require carbohydrates, sugars or
stronger proteins or more fat, such a restricted diet may aid in
establishing circulatory equilibrium, although he will lose in nutrition.
The excretory organs are relieved by the decreased amount of
excretory product, the digestive system is rested and the circulation
is improved.

Such a limited diet should not be tried longer than a week, but it may be
the turning point of circulatory improvement.

The ordinary diet for a convalescing heart patient should be small in
bulk, of good nutritive value, and should represent all the different
elements for nutrition.

This means a small amount of meat, once a day to older patients,
twice a day to those who work hard or for young patients; such
vegetables as do not cause indigestion with the particular patient, and
these must be individualized; such fruits as are readily digested,
especially cooked fruits; generally plenty of butter, cream, olive oil
if the nutrition is low, and milk, depending on the age of the patient
or the ease with which it is digested. Soups, on account of their
bulk and low nutritive value, should be avoided. Anything that causes
indigestion, such as fried foods, hot bread, oatmeal or any other gummy,
sticky, gelatinous cereal should be avoided; also spices, sauces and
strong condiments. Anything that is recognized as especially loaded with
nuclein and xanthin bodies, such as liver, sweetbreads and kidneys,
should be prohibited, as tending to cause uric acid disturbance;
and the more tendency to gout or uric acid malmetabolism the more
irritated are the arteries and the more disturbed the blood pressure.

Sugars should be used moderately unless the patient is thin and
feels cold, in which case more may be given, provided there are no signs
of gout or disturbed sugar metabolism. Sugar is at times a good stimulant
food. Very cold and very hot drinks or food should be avoided.

Many times these patients have a diminished hydrochloric acid
secretion, and such patients thrive on 5 drops of dilute hydrochloric
acid in water, three times a day, after meals.

When their nutrition has improved and the digestion becomes perfect,
hydrochloric acid will generally be sufficiently secreted and the
medication may be stopped.

If the patient is overweight, this obesity must be reduced, as nothing more
interferes with the welfare of the heart than overweight and overfat. In
these cases the diet should be that required for the condition. If
there are edemas, or a tendency to edemas, the decision should be
made whether salt (sodium chlorid) should be removed from the diet.

Unless there is kidney defect, probably it need not be omitted, and a long
salt-free diet is certainly not advisable. This salt-free diet has been
recommended not only in nephritis and heart disease, but also in diabetes
insipidus and in epilepsy. It is of value if there is edema in nephritis;
it is of doubtful value in heart disease; it is rarely of value in diabetes
insipidus; and in epilepsy its value consists probably in allowing the
bromid that may be administered to have better activity in smaller doses,
the bromin salt being substituted in the metabolism for the chlorin
salt.

     THE RESORT TREATMENT OF CHRONIC HEART DISEASE
     In line with the continued growing popularity of special resorts and
     special cures for different types of disease, resort or sanatorium
treatment for chronic heart disease has grown to considerable
popularity during the last twenty years or more.

The most popular of these resorts owe their success to the personality of
the physicians, who have made heart disease a life study.

Perhaps the most noted of these resorts for the cure of heart disease is
that at Bad Nauheim, Germany, which was inaugurated by Dr. August Schott
and Prof. Theodore Schott, and is now conducted by the latter, Dr.
August Schott having died about fifteen years ago.
Hundreds of patients and many physicians have testified to the value
and benefit of the treatment carried out at this institution.

The method of treatment largely employed at these heart resorts is to
withdraw all, or nearly all, of the active drugs that the patient may be
taking, and to substitute physical and physiologic methods of therapy.
These include bathing, regulation of the diet, and exercise. This exercise
consists of two varieties: exercise of the muscles against the
resistance of an attendant, and exercise by walking on inclined planes
or up hills. The treatment is aimed at chronic heart disease, to develop a
greater cardiac reserve strength; the whole object of the treatment is to
strengthen the myocardium, either in conditions of its debility or in
conditions of diminished compensation in valvular disease. Any treatment
that will develop a reserve heart strength to be called on in
emergencies, more or less similar to the reserve strength of a
normal heart, tends to prolong the patient's life and health.

Patients with acute heart failure or acute loss of compensation, with
more or less serious edemas, should rarely take the risk of traveling any
distance to be treated at an institution. As a general rule they are better
treated for a few weeks or months at home.
After the broken compensation is repaired, a reserve strength of the
heart may well be developed by a visit to one of these institutions,
if the patient can afford it.

The Oertel treatment consists chiefly in diminishing the fluids taken
into the body, and in graduated mountain climbing. By diminishing the
fluids taken, the work of the heart is diminished, as the blood vessels
are not overfilled and may be even underfilled.
The diet is carefully regulated with the object of removing all superfluous
fat from the body. The third leg of the tripod of the Oertel treatment is
the gradually increasing hill and mountain climbing to educate the heart
by graded muscular training to become strong, perfectly compensatory,
and later to develop a reserve strength.

This particular cure is especially adapted to the obese, who have weakened
heart muscles.

NAUHEIM BATHS
At Nauheim, under the direction of Dr. Theodore Schott, baths form an important
part of the treatment. These baths are of two kinds, the saline and the
carbonic acid. The medicinal constituents of the saline bath are sodium
chlorid and calcium chlorid, the strength of each varying from 2 to 3 percent
The baths at first arc given at a temperature of 95 F., and as the patient
becomes used to them and can take them without discomfort, the
temperature is gradually reduced. The patient remains in the bath from
five to ten minutes.
After the bath he is dried with towels and rubbed until the cutaneous
circulation becomes active.

He must then lie down for an hour. These baths are repeated for two
or three days, and are omitted on the third and fourth days, to be resumed
on the following day. After a few baths have been taken, the carbon
dioxid baths are commenced, beginning with a small quantity of the gas
which is later gradually increased. This course of baths should be continued
from four to eight weeks. Unless there is some special reason for
taking them at some other period of the year, they are taken more
advantageously during the warm months.

Besides the baths, all important part of the treatment at Nauheim consists
in the exercises against resistance. These are usually given an hour or
more after a bath, and are taken with great deliberation; their effect
is carefully watched by an intelligent attendant so that no harm may be
done by the exercise.

During this treatment the food is, of course, carefully regulated
with the aim of giving a mixed, sufficient, easily digestible and easily
assimilated diet. All highly seasoned dishes, all effervescent drinks
and anything that tends to cause gas in the stomach and intestines
are prohibited. Coffee and tea are not allowed, except coffee without
caffein; and it may be noted that it has recently been shown that
caffein is one of the surest of drugs to raise the blood pressure, and
is therefore generally not desirable when the heart muscle requires
strengthening. Because of its tendency to raise blood pressure and weaken
cardiac muscle, tobacco is entirely forbidden at Nauheim, except in a few
individual instances, and then the amount allowed is a minimum one. Large
amounts of liquid are not allowed because they distend the stomach, raise
the blood pressure and increase the pumping work of the heart.

One of the greatest advantages of the treatment at an institution like
Nauheim is the general hopeful spirit instilled into the patients, who are
so many times seriously depressed by the knowledge of a heart weakness
and the realization of their physical inability to do what other
persons are able to do.

Also, it is of great value to send a patient to a resort where the climate
is good and the scenery is lovely and soothing. No disease, perhaps, needs
cheerfulness and pleasantness and lack of anxiety, or frets more than
does cardiac weakness. A tuberculous patient may sit on a mountain top with
snow blowing about him, and recover; a heart patient must have sunshine
and comfort.
The results of such sanatorium treatment of heart disease are often
evident not only to the patient by an increase of general muscle
strength, the ability to do ordinary things and perhaps even sustain
muscular effort without dyspnea and cardiac discomfort, but also
to the physician by the physical signs.Spent all the afternoon in
talk and mirth, and in the evening parted, and then my wife and I to walk
in the garden, and so home to supper, Mrs. Turner and husband and daughter
with us, and then to bed.

20th.  Up, and to the office, where Mrs. Daniel comes.  .  .  .  All the
morning at the office.  Dined at home, then with Mr. Colvill to the new
Excise Office in Aldersgate Street, and thence back to the Old Exchange,
to see a very noble fine lady I spied as I went through, in coming; and
there took occasion to buy some gloves, and admire her, and a mighty fine
fair lady indeed she was.  Thence idling all the afternoon to Duck Lane,
and there saw my bookseller's moher, but get no ground there yet; and here
saw Mrs. Michell's daughter married newly to a bookseller, and she proves
a comely little grave woman.  So to visit my Lord Crew, who is very sick,
to great danger, by an irisipulus;--[Erysipelas.]--the first day I heard
of it, and so home, and took occasion to buy a rest for my espinette at
the ironmonger's by Holborn Conduit, where the fair pretty woman is that I
have lately observed there, and she is pretty, and je credo vain enough.
Thence home and busy till night, and so to bed.

21st.  Up, and to St. James's, but lost labour, the Duke abroad.  So home
to the office, where all the morning, and so to dinner, and then all the
afternoon at the office, only went to my plate-maker's, and there spent an
hour about contriving my little plates,

     [This passage has been frequently quoted as referring to Pepys's.
     small bookplate, with his initials S. P. and two anchors and ropes
     entwined; but if looked at carefully with the further reference on
     the 27th, it will be seen that it merely describes the preparation
     of engravings of the four dockyards.]

for my books of the King's four Yards.  At night walked in the garden, and
supped and to bed, my eyes bad.

22nd.  All the morning at the office.  Dined at home, and then to White
Hall with Symson the joyner, and after attending at the Committee of the
Navy about the old business of tickets, where the only expedient they have
found is to bind the Commanders and Officers by oaths.  The Duke of York
told me how the Duke of Buckingham, after the Council the other day, did
make mirth at my position, about the sufficiency of present rules in the
business of tickets; and here I took occasion to desire a private
discourse with the Duke of York, and he granted it to me on Friday next.
So to shew Symson the King's new lodgings for his chimnies, which I desire
to have one built in that mode, and so I home, and with little supper, to
bed.  This day a falling out between my wife and Deb., about a hood lost,
which vexed me.

23rd.  Up, and all day long, but at dinner, at the Office, at work, till I
was almost blind, which makes my heart sad.

24th.  Up, and by water to St. James's, having, by the way, shewn Symson
Sir W. Coventry's chimney-pieces, in order to the making me one; and
there, after the Duke of York was ready, he called me to his closet; and
there I did long and largely show him the weakness of our Office, and did
give him advice to call us to account for our duties, which he did take
mighty well, and desired me to draw up what I would have him write to the
Office.  I did lay open the whole failings of the Office, and how it was
his duty to find them, and to find fault with them, as Admiral, especially
at this time, which he agreed to, and seemed much to rely on what I said.
Thence to White Hall, and there waited to attend the Council, but was not
called in, and so home, and after dinner back with Sir J. Minnes by coach,
and there attended, all of us, the Duke of York, and had the hearing of
Mr. Pett's business, the Master-Shipwright at Chatham, and I believe he
will be put out.  But here Commissioner. Middleton did, among others, shew
his good-nature and easiness to the Masters-Attendants, by mitigating
their faults, so as, I believe, they will come in again.  So home, and to
supper and to bed, the Duke of York staying with us till almost night.

25th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning; and at noon, after dinner,
to Cooper's, it being a very rainy day, and there saw my wife's picture go
on, which will be very fine indeed.  And so home again to my letters, and
then to supper and to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  Up, and all the morning and after dinner, the
afternoon also, with W. Hewer in my closet, setting right my Tangier
Accounts, which I have let alone these six months and more, but find them
very right, and is my great comfort.  So in the evening to walk with my
wife, and to supper and to bed.

27th.  Busy all the morning at my office.  At noon dined, and then I out
of doors to my bookseller in Duck Lane, but su moher not at home, and it
was pretty here to see a pretty woman pass by with a little wanton look,
and je did sequi her round about the street from Duck Lane to Newgate
Market, and then elle did turn back, and je did lose her.  And so to see
my Lord Crew, whom I find up; and did wait on him; but his face sore, but
in hopes to do now very well again.  Thence to Cooper's, where my wife's
picture almost done, and mighty fine indeed.  So over the water with my
wife, and Deb., and Mercer, to Spring-Garden, and there eat and walked;
and observe how rude some of the young gallants of the town are become, to
go into people's arbours where there are not men, and almost force the
women; which troubled me, to see the confidence of the vice of the age:
and so we away by water, with much pleasure home.  This day my plate-maker
comes with my four little plates of the four Yards, cost me L5, which
troubles me, but yet do please me also.

28th.  All the morning at the office, and after dinner with my wife and
Deb.  to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw "The Slighted Maid,"
but a mean play; and thence home, there being little pleasure now in a
play, the company being but little.  Here we saw Gosnell, who is become
very homely, and sings meanly, I think, to what I thought she did.

29th.  Busy all the morning at the office.  So home to dinner, where
Mercer, and there comes Mr. Swan, my old acquaintance, and dines with me,
and tells me, for a certainty, that Creed is to marry Betty Pickering, and
that the thing is concluded, which I wonder at, and am vexed for. So he
gone I with my wife and two girls to the King's house, and saw "The Mad
Couple," a mean play altogether, and thence to Hyde Parke, where but few
coaches, and so to the New Exchange, and thence by water home, with much
pleasure, and then to sing in the garden, and so home to bed, my eyes for
these four days being my trouble, and my heart thereby mighty sad.

30th.  Up, and by water to White Hall.  There met with Mr. May, who was
giving directions about making a close way for people to go dry from the
gate up into the House, to prevent their going through the galleries;
which will be very good.  I staid and talked with him about the state of
the King's Offices in general, and how ill he is served, and do still find
him an excellent person, and so back to the office.  So close at my office
all the afternoon till evening, and then out with my wife to the New
Exchange, and so back again.

31st.  Up, and at my office all the morning.  About noon with Mr.
Ashburnham to the new Excise Office, and there discoursed about our
business, and I made him admire my drawing a thing presently in shorthand:
but, God knows!  I have paid dear for it, in my eyes. Home and to dinner,
and then my wife and Deb. and I, with Sir J. Minnes, to White Hall, she
going hence to the New Exchange, and the Duke of York not being in the
way, Sir J. Minnes and I to her and took them two to the King's house, to
see the first day of Lacy's "Monsieur Ragou," now new acted.  The King and
Court all there, and mighty merry--a farce.  Thence Sir J. Minnes giving
us, like a gentleman, his coach, hearing we had some business, we to the
Park, and so home.  Little pleasure there, there being little company, but
mightily taken with a little chariot that we saw in the street, and which
we are resolved to have ours like it. So home to walk in the garden a
little, and then to bed.  The month ends mighty sadly with me, my eyes
being now past all use almost; and I am mighty hot upon trying the late
printed experiment of paper tubes.

     [An account of these tubulous spectacles ("An easy help for decayed
     sight") is given in "The Philosophical Transactions," No. 37, pp.
     727,731 (Hutton's Abridgment, vol. i., p. 266).  See Diary, August
     12th and 23rd, post.]

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     At work, till I was almost blind, which makes my heart sad
     Bristol milk (the sherry) in the vaults
     But get no ground there yet
     Cannot be clean to go so many bodies together in the same water
     City pay him great respect, and he the like to the meanest
     Cost me L5, which troubles me, but yet do please me also
     Espinette is the French term for a small harpsichord
     Forced to change gold, 8s. 7d.; servants and poor, 1s. 6d.
     Frequent trouble in things we deserve best in
     How natural it is for us to slight people out of power
     I could have answered, but forbore
     Little pleasure now in a play, the company being but little
     Made him admire my drawing a thing presently in shorthand
     My wife hath something in her gizzard, that only waits
     My wife's neglect of things, and impertinent humour
     So out, and lost our way, which made me vexed
     Suffered her humour to spend, till we begun to be very quiet
     Troubled me, to see the confidence of the vice of the age
     Up, finding our beds good, but lousy; which made us merry
     Weather being very wet and hot to keep meat in.
     When he was seriously ill he declared himself a Roman Catholic
     Where a pedlar was in bed, and made him rise


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 AUGUST
                                  1668

August 1st.  All the morning at the office.  After dinner my wife, and
Deb., and I, to the King's house again, coming too late yesterday to hear
the prologue, and do like the play better now than before; and, indeed,
there is a great deal of true wit in it, more than in the common sort of
plays, and so home to my business, and at night to bed, my eyes making me
sad.

2nd. (Lord's day).  Up and at home all the morning, hanging, and removing
of some pictures, in my study and house.  At noon Pelling dined with me.
After dinner, I and Tom, my boy, by water up to Putney, and there heard a
sermon, and many fine people in the church.  Thence walked to Barne Elmes,
and there, and going and coming, did make the boy read to me several
things, being now-a-days unable to read myself anything, for above two
lines together, but my eyes grow weary.  Home about night, and so to
supper and then to bed.

3rd.  Up, and by water to White Hall and St. James's, where I did much
business, and about noon meeting Dr. Gibbons, carried him to the Sun
taverne, in King Street, and there made him, and some friends of his,
drink; among others, Captain Silas Taylor, and here did get Gibbons to
promise me some things for my flageolets.  So to the Old Exchange, and
then home to dinner, and so, Mercer dining with us, I took my wife and her
and Deb. out to Unthanke's, while I to White Hall to the Commissioners of
the Treasury, and so back to them and took them out to Islington, where we
met with W. Joyce and his wife and boy, and there eat and drank, and a
great deal of his idle talk, and so we round by Hackney home, and so to
sing a little in the garden, and then to bed.

4th.  Up, and to my office a little, and then to White Hall about a
Committee for Tangier at my Lord Arlington's, where, by Creed's being out
of town, I have the trouble given me of drawing up answers to the
complaints of the Turks of Algiers, and so I have all the papers put into
my hand.  Here till noon, and then back to the Office, where sat a little,
and then to dinner, and presently to the office, where come to me my Lord
Bellassis, Lieutenant-Colonell Fitzgerald, newly come from Tangier, and
Sir Arthur Basset, and there I received their informations, and so, they
being gone, I with my clerks and another of Lord Brouncker's, Seddon, sat
up till two in the morning, drawing up my answers and writing them fair,
which did trouble me mightily to sit up so long, because of my eyes.

5th.  So to bed about two o'clock, and then up about seven and to White
Hall, where read over my report to Lord Arlington and Berkeley, and then
afterward at the Council Board with great good liking, but, Lord! how it
troubled my eyes, though I did not think I could have done it, but did do
it, and was not very bad afterward.  So home to dinner, and thence out to
the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw "The Guardian;" formerly the
same, I find, that was called "Cutter of Coleman Street;" a silly play.
And thence to Westminster Hall, where I met Fitzgerald; and with him to a
tavern, to consider of the instructions for Sir Thomas Allen, against his
going to Algiers; he and I being designed to go down to Portsmouth by the
Council's order, and by and by he and I went to the Duke of York, who
orders me to go down to-morrow morning.  So I away home, and there bespeak
a coach; and so home and to bed, my wife being abroad with the Mercers
walking in the fields, and upon the water.

6th.  Waked betimes, and my wife, at an hour's warning, is resolved to go
with me, which pleases me, her readiness.  But, before ready, comes a
letter from Fitzgerald, that he is seized upon last night by an order of
the General's by a file of musqueteers, and kept prisoner in his chamber.
The Duke of York did tell me of it to-day: it is about a quarrel between.
him and Witham, and they fear a challenge: so I to him, and sent my wife
by the coach round to Lambeth.  I lost my labour going to his lodgings,
and he in bed: and, staying a great while for him, I at last grew
impatient, and would stay no longer; but to St. James's to Mr. Wren, to
bid him "God be with you!" and so over the water to Fox Hall; and there my
wife and Deb. come and took me up, and we away to Gilford, losing our way
for three or four mile, about Cobham.  At Gilford we dined; and, I shewed
them the hospitall there of Bishop Abbot's, and his tomb in the church,
which, and the rest of the tombs there, are kept mighty clean and neat,
with curtains before them.  So to coach again, and got to Lippock,2 late
over Hindhead, having an old man, a guide, in the coach with us; but got
thither with great fear of being out of our way, it being ten at night.
Here good, honest people; and after supper, to bed .  .  .  .

7th.  Up, and to coach, and with a guide to Petersfield, where I find Sir
Thomas Allen and Mr. Tippets come; the first about the business, the
latter only in respect to me; as also Fitzgerald, who come post all last
night, and newly arrived here.  Careful questioning, and if necessary
scientific examination of the stomach, may show that the patient has
hyperchlorhydria, ulcer of the stomach or duodenum, dilatation of the
stomach, or some growth in the stomach as a cause for the pain referred
to the region of the heart. Gallstones in the gallbladder may also give
such referred pains. Other lesions in the abdomen may cause pain referred
to the cardiac region. Not only will the demonstration of these causes and
their treatment assure the patient that he has not neuralgia of his
heart, but also, if curable, the cause of the pain may be removed.

Dry pleurisy of the left chest is not an infrequent cause of these pains,
and of course serious disease of the lungs, as tuberculosis, unresolved
pneumonia, pleuritic adhesions, ennphysema and tumor growths, may all
be the cause of a referred cardiac pain, the heart being disturbed
secondarily.

A stomach cramp is a not infrequent cause of serious pain referred to the
heart, and the rare condition of cardiospasm must also be remembered
as a cause of pseudo-angina.

In other words, the interpretation of these pseudo-anginas means a
careful diagnosis of the condition, and, as previously stated, not only
must the above- named causes be excluded, but also the reverse must
be remembered:
that many disturbances treated as other conditions really are due to
cardiac weakness. The diagnosis of a real angina pectoris from a false
angina may not be difficult. A real angina generally occurs after exertion
of some kind, be that exertion ever so slight. False angina may occur at
any minute with or without exertion. Pain referred to the heart which awakens
a patient at night is not likely to be a true angina; nervous patients
are prone to have such night attacks of cardiac disturbance of various
kinds. A true angina causes the patient's face to look anxious and
pale, with the breathing repressed.

A false angina shows no such paleness, allows deep breathing, crying and
lamenting, and allows the patient to move about in bed, or about the room.
The true angina makes the patient absolutely still and quiet: he hardly
dares to speak or tell what he is feeling and fearing. True angina is
of course much more frequent in older persons, while false anginas
occur in the young, and especially in the neurotic. With all the other
manifestations of hysteria, palpitation and cardiac pain are often
symptoms.

It should not be decided, however apparently self-evident that a referred
pain is not due to cardiac lesion until a careful examination of the
patient has been made. Real cardiac disturbance can of course occur at
any time in a neurotic or hysterical patient, and there should be no
mistakes of omission from carelessness or neglect on the part of the
physician.

Other frequent causes of more or less disturbance of the heart's action,
often accompanied by pain, are overexertion, worry and mental anxiety,
and intestinal toxemias due to too much protein or disturbed protein
digestion. Frequent causes are tobacco, and the overuse of tea and coffee.
Many a patient's pseudo-anginas are corrected by stopping tea and coffee.
The effects of caffein and tobacco on the heart will be considered later
when toxic disturbances are under discussion.

The above-mentioned causes of pseudo-anginas have only to be named to
indicate the treatment which will prevent the pain attacks. At times, the
cause being intangible, it may be necessary to change the whole life
and metabolism of the patient, as so often necessary in hysteria,
neurasthenia, gout, intestinal fermentation and kidney inefficiency.
Besides a rearrangement of the diet and measures for causing proper
activity of the bowels, massage, exercise and hydrotherapy should lie
utilized toward the end of improving the nutrition of every
part.

TREATMENT OF PSEUDO-ANGINAS
The treatment of these pseudo-angibas depends, of course, on the diagnosis
of the cause, and the cause should be eliminated or modified. If the
heart shows real disturbance from this reflex cause, the treatment
aimed toward it depends on whether the heart action is weak or
strong and the circulation poor or good.

     If the circulation is poor, digitalis in small doses may be needed,
     either 5 drops of an active tincture twice a day, or 8 or 10 drops
     once a day. If digitalis is not indicated, strophanthus sometimes
     is valuable. While strophanthus has been shown not to be a real
     cardiac tonic like digitalis, still there seems to be a nervous
     sedative action when it is given by the mouth, and it often does
good in these cases.

The dose is 5 drops of the tincture, in water, three times a day, after
meals.

Strychnin in small doses may be needed, but in these patients, who are
generally nervous, it is usually better not to give it.

One of the best sedatives to a heart that is irregular in its action
and not acting strongly is lime; a good way to administer it is in the
form of calcium lactate, and the dose is 0.3 gm. (5 grains), in powder
or capsule, three times a day, after meals.

If the circulation is good and the heart is strong, and yet these irregular
pains and irregular contractions occur, the bromids act favorably and
successfully.

     This is probably on account of their ability to quiet the central
     nervous system, to quiet and soothe the irritability of the
     heart, and to relax the peripheral blood vessels. The dose should
     be from 0.5 to 1 gm. (7 1/2 to 15 grains), in water, three times a
     day, after meals. It is not necessary or advisable to continue
     the bromid very long. Whatever general tonic or eliminative treatment
     the patient, requires should be given. The value of hydrotherapy,
     massage and graded exercise should not be forgotten.
     
     
     STOKES-ADAMS DISEASE: HEART BLOCK
     Stokes-Adams disease, or the Stokes-Adams syndrome, is a name applied
     to a combination of symptoms which was described by Stokes in 1846,
     and had been observed by Adams in 1827. The disease is characterized
     by bradycardia and cerebral attacks, either syncope or pseudo-apoplectic
     or convulsive attacks.
     
     To understand the phenomena of this disease, it will be well to
refer to the first chapter of this book.

Until 1893, when His described the bundle of muscle fibers which is now
known by his name, the transmission of the cardiac stimulus to contraction
was not understood. It has been found, by studying the pathology of
Stokes-Adams disease, as well as by clinically noting with instruments
the contractions of different parts of the heart, that these slow heart
beats are really due to interruptions of the impulse passing from
auricle to ventricle through the bundle of His, and degeneration
in this region is generally the cause of Stokes- Adams disease.

The auricles often beat many times more frequently than the ventricles,
even two or three times as frequently, and, of course, these auricular
contractions are not transmitted to the arterial system, and the radial
pulse notes only the contractions of the ventricles. The phrase that is
used to describe this nontransmission of the auricular stimulus to
the ventricles is "heart block."
While this disease almost invariably has a pathology, cases have occurred
in which no lesion of the heart could be found, but it generally occurs
coincidently with arteriosclerosis, in which the coronary arteries are
more or less involved and the arterial system of the brain may be diseased.
It occurs more frequently in men than in women, and in them mostly after
middle, or in advanced, life. The previous history of the patient has often
disclosed syphilis. The intermittence of the pulse may be regular or
irregular, and may not be constant in the early stages of the disease;
but when the disease is established, the rate of the pulse may be reduced
to forty, thirty, or even twenty beats a minute, and it has been
known to be even less.

When these intermittences are regular, perhaps two beats to one intermittence,
or three beats to one intermittence are the most frequent types. When
the auricles also beat slowly, perhaps the vagiare for some reason
overstimulated and thus inhibit the heart's activity.

The attacks of syncope are doubtless due to anemia of the medulla,
because of the infrequent ventricular contractions. This anemia of the
medulla and of the brain may also cause an epileptic seizure, or a
partial paralytic seizure without any apparent paralysis. It is probable,
however, that in these cases there may be coincident arterial
disease in the brain.

These sudden syncopal attacks are likely to occur when a patient suddenly
rises from a reclining posture, especially if he has been asleep.
Many persons whose circulation is none too strong may feel faint on suddenly
rising, but in a person whose pulse is slow and the circulation weak the
danger of causing anemia of the brain by the sudden erect posture is
much increased. Slight faint turns are of frequent occurrence with these
patients; or the faintness may be so rapid and so intense that the patient
may drop in his tracks. Venous pulsation in the neck is generally marked,
showing an impeded contraction of tile right auricle.

If the auricles are heard or found by instrumental readings to contract
more frequently than the ventricles, the trouble is quite likely to
be a heart block from disease in the heart itself, in the bundle of
His. If the heart is slowed as a whole, the trouble might be due to
diseased arteries or pressure from a growth, a gumma, perhaps, or other
brain tumor in the region of the pons Varolii or medulla oblongata; or a
hemorrhage into the fourth ventricle, causing pressure, could be the
cause.

TREATMENT
The treatment of true Stokes-Adams disease is unsuccessful.

     If general arteriosclerosis is present, that condition should be
     treated. Digitalis would seem almost invariably contraindicated,
     although it is of value in extrasystoles without heartblock, or
in conditions which are not Stokes-Adams disease; but if this disease
was considered present, digitalis would probably do harm.

Sometimes strychnin is of benefit.

Atropin has sometimes caused stimulation of the heart to more normal rapidity.
Its benefit is generally only temporary, as most patients cannot take
atropin regularly without having it cause a disagreeable drying of the
throat and skin, a stimulation of the brain, and an undesired raising of
the blood pressure, to say nothing of its action on the eyes.

The only value of the nitrites is when the blood pressure is high and
the nitrite action is desired on that account.

Coffee or caffein often causes these hearts to become irritable; it certainly
raises the blood pressure, and therefore is not generally advisable.
Both tea and coffee should generally be prohibited.

During the acute faint attack, camphor is one of the best stimulants.

Alcohol may be of benefit. If syphilis is a cause of the condition,
iodids are always valuable. If syphilis is not a cause and arteriosclerosis
is present, small doses of iodid given for a long period are beneficial,
although it may not much reduce the blood pressure or decrease the
plasticity of the blood. Iodid is a stimulant to the thyroid gland, and
therefore it is on this account valuable.

An excellent stimulant to the heart is thyroid secretion or thyroid extract.
Theoretically thyroid extracts should be the treatment for a slow-acting
heart. It sometimes seems of benefit to these patients, but it often causes
such nervous excitation and irritability as to preclude its use. The dose
of thyroid for this purpose would be small, about one-fourth to one-half
grain of the active substance three times a day. To be of any value, the
preparation must be good.

Epinephrin has been shown by Hirtz [Footnote: Hirtz: Arch d. mal. du coeur,
February, 1916] to overcome experimental heart block. It is not clear just
how it acts, but it could well be tried in heart block when the
blood pressure is not too high.

     A few drops of an epinephrin solution 1:1,000 may be placed on the
     tongue, and repeated three times a day, or from 5 to 10 minims of
a weaker solution may be given hypodermically.

The usual precautions against overeating, overdrinking, severe physical
exercise, sudden movements, overuse of tobacco, etc., should all be urged
on the patient. The disease is sooner or later fatal, although the patient
may live some years. Death is generally sudden.

It is understood that this disease must he separated from the condition
of bradycardia inherent in a few persons who have a slow pulse
throughout their life, without any untoward symptoms.

CARDIOVASCULAR RENAL DISEASE

With the strennousness of this era, this disease or condition, which may
be regarded as one of the accompaniments of normal old age, has become of
grave importance, and nowadays frequently develops in early middle
life. If it is diagnosed in its incipiency, and the patient follows
the advice given him, the progress of the disease will generally be
inhibited, and a premature old age postponed.

In the beginning the symptoms and signs of this disease are generally
those of hypertension, and the treatment and management is that advised
in hypertension.

If the kidneys show irritation, as manifested by the presence of albumini
and casts in the urine, or if they show insufficiency in the twenty-four-hour
excretion of one or more salts or other excretory product, the diet and
life must be more carefully regulated than advised in hypertension, and the
treatment becomes practically that of chronic interstitial nephritis.

Sooner or later, in most instances of this disease, whether hypertension,
chronic endarteritis or interstitial nephritis or any combination of these
conditions is most in evidence, the heart will hypertrophy. As long as the
circulation in the heart itself is good and not impaired by coronary
sclerosis, and as long as this slowly developing chronic myocarditis has
not advanced far, cardiac symptoms will not be in evidence; but if these
conditions occur, or if the blood pressure is so greatly increased
as to damage the aortic valve or strain and dilate the left ventricle,
symptoms rapidly appear, and the heart must be carefully watched.
Subsequently, as the disease advances, if the patient does not die of angina
pectoris, apoplexy or uremia, the symptoms of cardiac decompensation will
develop. As the heart begins to fail, a dilatation of the right ventricle
causes passive congestion of the kidneys, and the chronic interstitial
nephritis may progress more rapidly.

It is often difficult to decide which is more in evidence, heart insufficiency
or kidney insufficiency. The more the heart fails, the more albumin will
generally appear in the urine, and the lower the blood pressure, especially
the diastolic.

     The more insufficient the kidneys, the higher the blood pressure,
     especially the diastolic. The location of the edema will aid in
     deciding which condition is most in evidence. If the edema is
     pendent in feet, legs and perhaps genitals when the patient is up,
     with its disappearance at night, and more or less backache
     and pitting of the back in the morning, it is the heart that is
most rapidly failing.

If there is more general edema, the hands and face puffing, and there are
considerable nausea and vomiting, headache and drowsiness, and
perhaps muscular twitchings, with neuralgic pains, the most serious
trouble at that particular time lies in the kidney insufficiency.

Kisch [Footnote: Kisch: Med. Klin., Feb. 27, 1916.] sums up the procedural
symptoms and signs of cerebral hemorrhage. The heart is generally
enlarged and hypertrophied. The patient is likely to be overweight or
adding weight, and to suffer from intestinal indigestions. Signs of sclerosis
of the blood vessels of the brain are evidenced by transient dizziness;
headaches; impaired sleep; loss of memory, especially for names and words;
slight disturbances of speech, momentary perhaps, and more or less temporary
localized numbness of the hands or feet, or arms or legs, with perhaps
flushing of some part of the body, or little localized spasms of
vessels of other parts of the body, causing chilliness.

There is also a marked hereditary tendency to apoplexy.

Cadwalader, [Footnote: Cadwalader, W. R.: A Comparison of the Onset and
Character of the Apoplexy Caused by Cerebral Hemorrhage and by Vascular
Occlusion, The Journal A. M. A., May 2, 1914, p. 1385.] after considerable
investigation, has come to the conclusion that large hemorrhages
into the brain are the rule in apoplexy, and that small hemorrhages
are rare, and he is inclined to think that even small, as well as
large hemorrhages, are more frequently fatal than supposed.

     In other words, he thinks that many of the nonfatal hemiplegias are
     caused by vascular obstruction and softening and not by hemorrhage.

He finds that sudden death, or death within a few minutes, does not occur
from hemorrhage, even if the hemorrhage is large, though a rapidly
developing and persistent coma usually indicates a hemorrhage.

     If the coma is not profound and is slow in its onset, with
     symptoms noticed by the patient, and cerebral disturbance, he
believes it to be caused generally by softening of the cerebral
center, due to some obstruction of the blood flow, and not to
hemorrhage.

While occasionally a slowly increasing loss of consciousness may be due to
hemorrhage, he thinks it is doubtful if real hemorrhage ever occurs
without loss of consciousness, while softening of some part of the
cerebrum may occur without unconsciousness.

He thinks that the size of the hemorrhage is of more importance than its
situation in causing the profoundness of the symptoms, but he repeats
that nonfatal cases of hemiplegia are generally caused by vascular
occlusion and subsequent softening, and not by hemorrhage.

TREATMENT
While it is urged, in preventing the actual development of this disease,
and in slowing its progress, that it is advisable to lower a high blood
pressure, we must remember that this blood pressure mad be compensatory,
and many times should not be much lowered without due consideration
of the symptoms and the patient's condition. It is better not to use drugs
of any kind in this incipient condition. The hypertension should be regulated
by the diet; the purin bases and meat should be reduced to a minimum;
tea, coffee and alcohol should be prohibited, and tobacco should be
either entirely stopped or reduced to a minimum. Regulated exercise is
always advisable, the amount of such exercise depending on the condition
of the circulation. Ordinary walking and graduated walking or graduated
hill climbing and golfing are good exercise for these patients.
Mental and physical strenuosity must be stopped, if the disease is to
be slowed. Sleeplessness must be combated, and perhaps actually treated
medicinally, and for a time sufficient doses of chloral are perhaps
the best treatment.

The administration of chloral must always be carefully guarded to avoid the
acquirement of dependence on the drug. Mouth and other infections should
be sought and removed. Warm baths, Turkish baths, electric light baths
or body baking may be advisable, and certainly obesity must always be
combated by a regulation of the diet. In obesity, stimulants to the
appetite, such as spices, condiments, and even sometimes salt, must be
prohibited. Butter, cream, sugar and starches must be reduced to a
minimum. A small amount of bread and a small amount of potatoes should be
allowed. Liquids with meals should be reduced. Fruits should be given
freely. Intestinal indigestion should be corrected, and free daily movements
of the bowels should be caused. If the patient is obese, and especially
if the blood pressure is high, the administration of thyroid extract is
very beneficial. This is particularly true in women suffering from
this disease; but the patient should be carefully observed during
its administration. It may be advisable to administer small doses
of iodid instead of the thyroid treatment, or coincidently with it.
Nitrites had better be postponed, if possible, for cardiac
emergencies.
White, [Footnote: White: Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Dec. 2, 1915.]
after studying 200 cases of heart disease, finds that men are more
subject to auricular fibrillation, auricular flutter, heart block
and alternation of the pulse than are women. The greater frequency
of syphilis in men than in women should be considered in this
difference in frequency.
White finds that hyperthyroidism of long standing is often attended
with auricular fibrillation. He does not find that alcohol, tea and
coffee play much part in causing these serious disturbances of the
heart. His conclusions on this subject are certainly a surprise,
and do not coincide with the experience of many others. It would
seem that one of the causes of the greater frequency of these
disturbances in men would be the amount of alcohol and tobacco used
by men.
When the heart begins to fail from a gradually progressing myocarditis,
the pulse rate generally increases, especially on the least exertion,
and on fast walking may be as high as 120 or 130 a minute, or even
higher. It may be found near 100 on the least exertion, even after
some minutes of rest. These patients must have more or less absolute
bed rest. When this condition occurs in old age, however, prolonged
bed rest is inadvisable, for if the heart once loses its energy,
in such cases, it is practically impossible to cause a return of
normal function.James's, and
about four o'clock got thither: and there the Duke of York was ready, to
expect me, and did hear it all over with extraordinary content; and did
give me many and hearty thanks, and in words the most expressive tell me
his sense of my good endeavours, and that he would have a care of me on
all occasions; and did, with much inwardness,--[i.e., intimacy.]--tell me
what was doing, suitable almost to what Captain Cocke tells me, of designs
to make alterations in the Navy; and is most open to me in them, and with
utmost confidence desires my further advice on all occasions: and he
resolves to have my letter transcribed, and sent forthwith to the Office.
So, with as much satisfaction as I could possibly, or did hope for, and
obligation on the Duke of York's side professed to me, I away into the
Park, and there met Mr. Pierce and his wife, and sister and brother, and a
little boy, and with them to Mulberry Garden, and spent I 18s. on them,
and there left them, she being again with child, and by it, the least
pretty that ever I saw her. And so I away, and got a coach, and home, and
there with my wife and W. Hewer, talking all the evening, my mind running
on the business of the Office, to see what more I can do to the rendering
myself acceptable and useful to all and to the King.  We to supper, and to
bed.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning upon considerations on
the Victualler's contract, and then home to dinner, where my wife is upon
hanging the long chamber where the girl lies, with the sad stuff that was
in the best chamber, in order to the hanging that with tapestry. So to
dinner, and then to the office again, where all the afternoon till night,
we met to discourse upon the alterations which are propounded to be made
in the draft of the victualler's contract which we did lately make, and
then we being up comes Mr. Child, Papillion and Littleton, his partners,
to discourse upon the matter with me, which I did, and spent all the
evening with them at the office, and so, they being gone, I to supper and
talk with my wife, and so to bed.

25th.  Up, and by water to St. James's, and there, with Mr. Wren, did
discourse about my great letter, which the Duke of York hath given him:
and he hath set it to be transcribed by Billings, his man, whom, as he
tells me, he can most confide in for secresy, and is much pleased with it,
and earnest to have it be; and he and I are like to be much together in
the considering how to reform the Office, and that by the Duke of York's
command.  Thence I, mightily pleased with this success, away to the
Office, where all the morning, my head full of this business.  And it is
pretty how Lord Brouncker this day did tell me how he hears that a design
is on foot to remove us out of the Office: and proposes that we two do
agree to draw up a form of a new constitution of the Office, there to
provide remedies for the evils we are now under, so that we may be
beforehand with the world, which I agreed to, saying nothing of my design;
and, the truth is, he is the best man of them all, and I would be glad,
next myself, to save him; for, as he deserves best, so I doubt he needs
his place most.  So home to dinner at noon, and all the afternoon busy at
the office till night, and then with my mind full of business now in my
head, I to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning almost, busy about
business against the afternoon, and we met a little to sign two or three
things at the Board of moment, and thence at noon home to dinner, and so
away to White Hall by water.  In my way to the Old Swan, finding a great
many people gathered together in Cannon Street about a man that was
working in the ruins, and the ground did sink under him, and he sunk in,
and was forced to be dug out again, but without hurt.  Thence to White
Hall, and it is strange to say with what speed the people employed do pull
down Paul's steeple, and with what ease: it is said that it, and the choir
are to be taken down this year, and another church begun in the room
thereof, the next.  At White Hall we met at the Treasury chamber, and
there before the Lords did debate our draft of the victualling contract
with the several bidders for it, which were Sir D. Gawden, Mr. Child and
his fellows, and Mr. Dorrington and his, a poor variety in a business of
this value.  There till after candle-lighting, and so home by coach with
Sir D. Gawden, who, by the way, tells me how the City do go on in several
things towards the building of the public places, which I am glad to hear;
and gives hope that in a few years it will be a glorious place; but we met
with several stops and new troubles in the way in the streets, so as makes
it bad to travel in the dark now through the City. So I to Mr. Batelier's
by appointment, where I find my wife, and Deb., and Mercer; Mrs. Pierce
and her husband, son, and daughter; and Knepp and Harris, and W. Batelier,
and his sister Mary, and cozen Gumbleton, a good-humoured, fat young
gentleman, son to the jeweller, that dances well; and here danced all
night long, with a noble supper; and about two in the morning the table
spread again for a noble breakfast beyond all moderation, that put me out
of countenance, so much and so good.  Mrs. Pierce and her people went home
betimes, she being big with child; but Knepp and the rest staid till
almost three in the morning, and then broke up.

27th.  Knepp home with us, and I to bed, and rose about six, mightily
pleased with last night's mirth, and away by water to St. James's, and
there, with Mr. Wren, did correct his copy of my letter, which the Duke of
York hath signed in my very words, without alteration of a syllable.

     [A copy of this letter is in the British Museum, Harl.  MS. 6003.
     See July 24th, ante, and August 29th, Post.  In the Pepysian
     Collection are the following: An Inquisition, by his Royal Highness
     the Duke of York, when Lord High Admiral of England, into the
     Management of the Navy, 1668, with his Regulations thereon, fol.
     Also Mr. Pepys's Defence of the same upon an Inquisition thereunto
     by Parliament, 1669, fol.--B.]

And so pleased therewith, I to my Lord Brouncker, who I find within, but
hath business, and so comes not to the Office to-day.  And so I by water
to the Office, where we sat all the morning; and, just as the Board rises,
comes the Duke of York's letter, which I knowing, and the Board not being
full, and desiring rather to have the Duke of York deliver it himself to
us, I suppressed it for this day, my heart beginning to falsify in this
business, as being doubtful of the trouble it may give me by provoking
them; but, however, I am resolved to go through it, and it is too late to
help it now.  At noon to dinner to Captain Cocke's, where I met with Mr.
Wren; my going being to tell him what I have done, which he likes, and to
confer with Cocke about our Office; who tells me that he is confident the
design of removing our Officers do hold, but that he is sure that I am
safe enough.  Which pleases me, though I do not much shew it to him, but
as a thing indifferent.  So away home, and there met at Sir Richard Ford's
with the Duke of York's Commissioners about our Prizes, with whom we shall
have some trouble before we make an end with them, and hence, staying a
little with them, I with my wife, and W. Batelier, and Deb.; carried them
to Bartholomew Fayre, where we saw the dancing of the ropes and nothing
else, it being late, and so back home to supper and to bed, after having
done at my office.

28th.  Busy at the office till toward 10 o'clock, and then by water to
White Hall, where attending the Council's call all the morning with Lord
Brouncker, W. Pen, and the rest, about the business of supernumeraries in
the fleete, but were not called in.  But here the Duke of York did call me
aside, and told me that he must speak with me in the afternoon, with Mr.
Wren, for that now he hath got the paper from my Lord Keeper about the
exceptions taken against the management of the Navy; and so we are to
debate upon answering them.  At noon I home with W. Coventry to his house;
and there dined with him, and talked freely with him; and did acquaint him
with what I have done, which he is well pleased with, and glad of: and do
tell me that there are endeavours on foot to bring the Navy into new, but,
he fears, worse hands.  After much talk with great content with him, I
walked to the Temple, and staid at Starky's, my bookseller's (looking over
Dr. Heylin's new book of the Life of Bishop Laud, a strange book of the
Church History of his time), till Mr. Wren comes, and by appointment we to
the Atturney General's chamber, and there read and heard the witnesses in
the business of Ackeworth, most troublesome and perplexed by the counter
swearing of the witnesses one against the other, and so with Mr. Wren away
thence to St. [James's] for his papers, and so to White Hall, and after
the Committee was done at the Council chamber about the business of
Supernumeraries, wherein W. Pen was to do all and did, but like an
ignorant illiterate coxcomb, the Duke of York fell to work with us, the
Committee being gone, in the Council-chamber; and there, with his own
hand, did give us his long letter, telling us that he had received several
from us, and now did give us one from him, taking notice of our several
duties and failures, and desired answer to it, as he therein desired; this
pleased me well; and so fell to other business, and then parted.  And the
Duke of York, and Wren, and I, it being now candle-light, into the Duke of
York's closet in White Hall; and there read over this paper of my Lord
Keeper's, wherein are laid down the faults of the Navy, so silly, and the
remedies so ridiculous, or else the same that are now already provided,
that we thought it not to need any answer, the Duke of York being able
himself to do it: that so it makes us admire the confidence of these men
to offer things so silly, in a business of such moment.  But it is a most
perfect instance of the complexion of the times! and so the Duke of York
said himself, who, I perceive, is mightily concerned in it, and do, again
and again, recommend it to Mr. Wren and me together, to consider upon
remedies fit to provide for him to propound to the King, before the rest
of the world, and particularly the Commissioners of Accounts, who are men
of understanding and order, to find our faults, and offer remedies of
their own, which I am glad of, and will endeavour to do something in it.
So parted, and with much difficulty, by candle-light, walked over the
Matted Gallery, as it is now with the mats and boards all taken up, so
that we walked over the rafters.  But strange to see what hard matter the
plaister of Paris is, that is there taken up, as hard as stone!  And pity
to see Holben's work in the ceiling blotted on, and only whited over!
Thence; with much ado, by several coaches home, to supper and to bed.  My
wife having been this day with Hales, to sit for her hand to be mended, in
her picture.

29th.  Up, and all the morning at the Office, where the Duke of York's
long letter was read, to their great trouble, and their suspecting me to
have been the writer of it.  And at noon comes, by appointment, Harris to
dine with me and after dinner he and I to Chyrurgeon's-hall, where they
are building it new, very fine; and there to see their theatre; which
stood all the fire, and, which was our business, their great picture of
Holben's, thinking to have bought it, by the help of Mr. Pierce, for a
little money: I did think to give L200 for it, it being said to be worth
L1000; but it is so spoiled that I have no mind to it, and is not a
pleasant, though a good picture.  Thence carried Harris to his playhouse,
where, though four o'clock, so few people there at "The Impertinents," as
I went out; and do believe they did not act, though there was my Lord
Arlington and his company there.  So I out, and met my wife in a coach,
and stopped her going thither to meet me; and took her, and Mercer, and
Deb., to Bartholomew Fair, and there did see a ridiculous, obscene little
stage-play, called "Marry Andrey;" a foolish thing, but seen by every
body; and so to Jacob Hall's dancing of the ropes; a thing worth seeing,
and mightily followed, and so home and to the office, and then to bed.
Writing to my father to-night not to unfurnish our house in the country
for my sister, who is going to her own house, because I think I may have
occasion myself to come thither; and so I do, by our being put out of the
Office, which do not at all trouble me to think of.

30th (Lord's day).  Walked to St. James's and Pell Mell, and read over,
with Sir W. Coventry, my long letter to the Duke of York, and which the
Duke of York hath, from mine, wrote to the Board, wherein he is mightily
pleased, and I perceive do put great value upon me, and did talk very
openly on all matters of State, and how some people have got the bit into
their mouths, meaning the Duke of Buckingham and his party, and would
likely run away with all.  But what pleased me mightily was to hear the
good character he did give of my Lord Falmouth for his generosity,
good-nature, desire of public good, and low thoughts of his own wisdom;
his employing his interest in the King to do good offices to all people,
without any other fault than the freedom he, do learn in France of
thinking himself obliged to serve his King in his pleasures: and was W.
Coventry's particular friend: and W. Coventry do tell me very odde
circumstances about the fatality of his death, which are very strange.
Thence to White Hall to chapel, and heard the anthem, and did dine with
the Duke of Albemarle in a dirty manner as ever.  All the afternoon, I
sauntered up and down the house and Park.  And there was a Committee for
Tangier met, wherein Lord Middleton would, I think, have found fault with
me for want of coles; but I slighted it, and he made nothing of it, but
was thought to be drunk; and I see that he hath a mind to find fault with
me and Creed, neither of us having yet applied ourselves to him about
anything: but do talk of his profits and perquisites taken from him, and
garrison reduced, and that it must be increased, and such things, as; I
fear, he will be just such another as my Lord Tiviott and the rest, to
ruin that place.  So I to the Park, and there walk an hour or two; and in
the King's garden, and saw the Queen and ladies walk; and I did steal some
apples off the trees; and here did see my Lady Richmond, who is of a noble
person as ever I saw, but her face worse than it was considerably by the
smallpox: her sister' is also very handsome.  Coming into the Park, and
the door kept strictly, I had opportunity of handing in the little,
pretty, squinting girl of the Duke of York's house, but did not make
acquaintance with her; but let her go, and a little girl that was with
her, to walk by themselves.  So to White Hall in the evening, to the
Queen's side, and there met the Duke of York; and he did tell me and W.
Coventry, who was with me, how that Lord Anglesey did take notice of our
reading his long and sharp letter to the Board; but that it was the
better, at least he said so.  The Duke of York, I perceive, is earnest in
it, and will have good effects of it; telling W. Coventry that it was a
letter that might have come from the Commissioners of Accounts, but it was
better it should come first from him.  I met Lord Brouncker, who, I
perceive, and the rest, do smell that it comes from me, but dare not find
fault with it; and I am glad of it, it being my glory and defence that I
did occasion and write it.  So by water home, and did spend the evening
with W. Hewer, telling him how we are all like to be turned out, Lord
Brouncker telling me this evening that the Duke of Buckingham did, within
few hours, say that he had enough to turn us all out which I am not sorry
for at all, for I know the world will judge me to go for company; and my
eyes are such as I am not able to do the business of my Office as I used,
and would desire to do, while I am in it.  So with full content, declaring
all our content in being released of my employment, my wife and I to bed,
and W. Hewer home, and so all to bed.

31st.  Up, and to my office, there to set my journal for all the last
week, and so by water to Westminster to the Exchequer, and thence to the
Swan, and there drank and did baiser la fille there, and so to the New
Exchange and paid for some things, and so to Hercules Pillars,' and there
dined all alone, while I sent my shoe to have the heel fastened at
Wotton's, and thence to White Hall to the Treasury chamber, where did a
little business, and thence to the Duke of York's playhouse and there met
my wife and Deb. and Mary Mercer and Batelier, where also W. Hewer was,
and saw "Hamlet," which we have not seen this year before, or more; and
mightily pleased with it; but, above all, with Betterton, the best part I
believe, that ever man acted.  Thence to the Fayre, and saw
"Polichinelle," and so home, and after a little supper to bed.  This night
lay the first night in Deb.'s chamber, which is now hung with that that
hung our great chamber, and is now a very handsome room.  This day Mrs.
Batelier did give my wife a mighty pretty Spaniel bitch [Flora], which she
values mightily, and is pretty; but as a new comer, I cannot be fond of
her.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     And the woman so silly, as to let her go that took it
     But what they did, I did not enquire
     Family governed so nobly and neatly as do me good to see it
     I know not whether to be glad or sorry
     My heart beginning to falsify in this business
     Pictures of some Maids of Honor: good, but not like
     Resolved to go through it, and it is too late to help it now
     Saw "Mackbeth," to our great content
     The factious part of the Parliament
     Though I know it will set the Office and me by the ears for ever


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                           SEPTEMBER & OCTOBER
                                  1668

September 1st.  Up and all the morning at the office busy, and after
dinner to the office again busy till about four, and then I abroad (my
wife being gone to Hales's about drawing her hand new in her picture) and
I to see Betty Michell, which I did, but su mari was dentro, and no
pleasure.  So to the Fair, and there saw several sights; among others, the
mare that tells money,

     [This is not the first learned horse of which we read.  Shakespeare,
     "Love's Labour's Lost," act i., SC. 2, mentions "the dancing
     horse,"' and the commentators have added many particulars of Banks's
     bay horse.]

and many things to admiration; and, among others, come to me, when she was
bid to go to him of the company that most loved a pretty wench in a
corner.  And this did cost me 12d. to the horse, which I had flung him
before, and did give me occasion to baiser a mighty belle fille that was
in the house that was exceeding plain, but fort belle.  At night going
home I went to my bookseller's in Duck Lane, and find her weeping in the
shop, so as ego could not have any discourse con her nor ask the reason,
so departed and took coach home, and taking coach was set on by a wench
that was naught, and would have gone along with me to her lodging in Shoe
Lane, but ego did donner her a shilling   .  .  .  and left her, and home,
where after supper, W. Batelier with us, we to bed.  This day Mrs. Martin
come to see us, and dined with us.

2nd.  Fast-day for the burning of London, strictly observed.  I at home at
the office all day, forenoon and afternoon, about the Victualler's
contract and other things, and at night home to supper, having had but a
cold dinner, Mr. Gibson with me; and this evening comes Mr. Hill to
discourse with me about Yeabsly and Lanyon's business, wherein they are
troubled, and I fear they have played the knave too far for me to help or
think fit to appear for them.  So he gone, and after supper, to bed, being
troubled with a summons, though a kind one, from Mr. Jessop, to attend the
Commissioners of Accounts tomorrow.

3rd.  Up, and to the Office, where busy till it was time to go to the
Commissioners of Accounts, which I did about noon, and there was received
with all possible respect, their business being only to explain the
meaning of one of their late demands to us, which we had not answered in
our answer to them, and, this being done, I away with great content, my
mind being troubled before, and so to the Exchequer and several places,
calling on several businesses, and particularly my bookseller's, among
others, for "Hobbs's Leviathan,"

     ["Leviathan: or the matter, forme and power of a Commonwealth
     ecclesiasticall and civill," by Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, first
     published in 1651.  It was reprinted in 1680, with its old date.
     Hobbes's complete works, English and Latin, were published by Sir
     William Molesworth in sixteen volumes 8vo. between 1839 and 1845.]

which is now mightily called for; and what was heretofore sold for 8s.  I
now give 24s. for, at the second hand, and is sold for 30s., it being a
book the Bishops will not let be printed again, and so home to dinner, and
then to the office all the afternoon, and towards evening by water to the
Commissioners of the Treasury, and presently back again, and there met a
little with W. Pen and the rest about our Prize accounts, and so W. Pen
and Lord Brouncker and I at the lodging of the latter to read over our new
draft of the victualler's contract, and so broke up and home to supper and
to bed.

4th.  Up, and met at the Office all the morning; and at noon my wife, and
Deb., and Mercer, and W. Hewer and I to the Fair, and there, at the old
house, did eat a pig, and was pretty merry, but saw no sights, my wife
having a mind to see the play "Bartholomew-Fayre," with puppets.  Which we
did, and it is an excellent play; the more I see it, the more I love the
wit of it; only the business of abusing the Puritans begins to grow stale,
and of no use, they being the people that, at last, will be found the
wisest.  And here Knepp come to us, and sat with us, and thence took coach
in two coaches, and losing one another, my wife, and Knepp, and I to
Hercules Pillars, and there supped, and I did take from her mouth the
words and notes of her song of "the Larke," which pleases me mightily. And
so set her at home, and away we home, where our company come home before
us.  This night Knepp tells us that there is a Spanish woman lately come
over, that pretends to sing as well as Mrs. Knight; both of which I must
endeavour to hear.  So, after supper, to bed.

5th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and
to the office to work all the afternoon again till the evening, and then
by coach to Mr. Hales's new house, where, I find, he hath finished my
wife's hand, which is better than the other; and here I find Harris's
picture, done in his habit of "Henry the Fifth;" mighty like a player, but
I do not think the picture near so good as any yet he hath made for me:
however, it is pretty well, and thence through the fair home, but saw
nothing, it being late, and so home to my business at the office, and
thence to supper and to bed.

6th (Lord's day).  Up betimes, and got myself ready to go by water, and
about nine o'clock took boat with Henry Russell to Gravesend, coming
thither about one, where, at the Ship, I dined; and thither come to me Mr.
Hosier, whom I went to speak with, about several businesses of work that
he is doing, and I would have him do, of writing work, for me. And I did
go with him to his lodging, and there did see his wife, a pretty tolerable
woman, and do find him upon an extraordinary good work of designing a
method of keeping our Storekeeper's Accounts, in the Navy. Here I should
have met with Mr. Wilson, but he is sick, and could not come from Chatham
to me.  So, having done with Hosier, I took boat again the beginning of
the flood, and come home by nine at night, with much pleasure, it being a
fine day.  Going down I spent reading of the "Five Sermons of Five Several
Styles," worth comparing one with another: but I do think, when all is
done, that, contrary to the design of the book, the Presbyterian style and
the Independent are the best of the five sermons to be preached in; this I
do, by the best of my present judgment think, and coming back I spent
reading of a book of warrants of our office in the first Dutch war, and do
find that my letters and warrants and method will be found another
gate's business than this that the world so much adores, and I am glad for
my own sake to find it so.  My boy was with me, and read to me all day,
and we sang a while together, and so home to supper a little, and so to
bed.

7th.  At the office all the morning, we met, and at noon dined at home,
and after dinner carried my wife and Deb. to Unthanke's, and I to White
Hall with Mr. Gibson, where the rest of our officers met us, and to the
Commissioners of the Treasury about the Victualling contract, but staid
not long, but thence, sending Gibson to my wife, I with Lord Brouncker
(who was this day in an unusual manner merry, I believe with drink), J.
Minnes, and W. Pen to Bartholomew-Fair; and there saw the dancing mare
again, which, to-day, I find to act much worse than the other day, she
forgetting many things, which her master beat her for, and was mightily
vexed; and then the dancing of the ropes, and also the little stage-play,
which is very ridiculous, and so home to the office with Lord Brouncker,
W. Pen, and myself (J. Minnes being gone home before not well), and so,
after a little talk together, I home to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and to St. James's, there to talk a
little with Mr. Wren about the private business we are upon, in the
Office, where he tells me he finds that they all suspect me to be the
author of the great letter, which I value not, being satisfied that it is
the best thing I could ever do for myself; and so, after some discourse of
this kind more, I back to the Office, where all the morning; and after
dinner to it again, all the afternoon, and very late, and then home to
supper, where met W. Batelier and Betty Turner; and, after some talk with
them, and supper, we to bed.  This day, I received so earnest an
invitation again from Roger Pepys, to come to Sturbridge-Fair [at
Cambridge] that I resolve to let my wife go, which she shall do the next
week, and so to bed.  This day I received two letters from the Duke of
Richmond about his yacht, which is newly taken into the King's service,
and I am glad of it, hoping hereby to oblige him, and to have occasions of
seeing his noble Duchess, which I admire.

9th.  Up, and to the office, and thence to the Duke of Richmond's lodgings
by his desire, by letter, yesterday.  I find him at his lodgings in the
little building in the bowling-green, at White Hall, that was begun to be
built by Captain Rolt.  They are fine rooms.  I did hope to see his lady,
the beautiful Mrs. Stuart, but she, I hear, is in the country.  His
business was about his yacht, and he seems a mighty good-natured man, and
did presently write me a warrant for a doe from Cobham, when the season
comes, bucks season being past.  I shall make much of this acquaintance,
that I may live to see his lady near.  Thence to Westminster, to Sir R.
Longs Office: and, going, met Mr. George Montagu, who talked and
complimented me mightily; and long discourse I had with him, who, for
news, tells me for certain that Trevor do come to be Secretary at
Michaelmas, and that Morrice goes out, and he believes, without any
compensation.  He tells me that now Buckingham does rule all; and the
other day, in the King's journey he is now on, at Bagshot, and that way,
he caused Prince Rupert's horses to be turned out of an inne, and caused
his own to be kept there, which the Prince complained of to the King, and
the Duke of York seconded the complaint; but the King did over-rule it for
Buckingham, by which there are high displeasures among them; and
Buckingham and Arlington rule all.  Thence by water home and to dinner,
and after dinner by water again to White Hall, where Brouncker, W. Pen,
and I attended the Commissioners of the Treasury about the
victualling-contract, where high words between Sir Thomas Clifford and us,
and myself more particularly, who told him that something, that he said
was told him about this business, was a flat untruth.  However, we went on
to our business in, the examination of the draught, and so parted, and I
vexed at what happened, and Brouncker and W. Pen and I home in a hackney
coach.  And I all that night so vexed that I did not sleep almost all
night, which shows how unfit I am for trouble.  So, after a little supper,
vexed, and spending a little time melancholy in making a base to the
Lark's song, I to bed.

10th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there to Sir W. Coventry's
house, where I staid in his dining-room two hours thinking to speak with
him, but I find Garraway and he are private, which I am glad of, Captain
Cocke bringing them this day together.  Cocke come out and talked to me,
but it was too late for me to stay longer, and therefore to the Treasury
chamber, where the rest met, and W. Coventry come presently after.  And we
spent the morning in finishing the Victualler's contract, and so I by
water home, and there dined with me Batelier and his wife, and Mercer, and
my people, at a good venison-pasty; and after dinner I and W. Howe, who
come to see me, by water to the Temple, and met our four women, my wife,
M. Batelier, Mercer, and Deb., at the Duke's play-house, and there saw
"The Maid in the Mill," revived--a pretty, harmless old play.  Thence to
Unthanke's, and 'Change, where wife did a little business, while Mercer
and I staid in the coach; and, in a quarter of an hour, I taught her the
whole Larke's song perfectly, so excellent an eare she hath. Here we at
Unthanke's 'light, and walked them to White Hall, my wife mighty angry at
it, and did give me ill words before Batelier, which vexed me, but I made
no matter of it, but vexed to myself.  So landed them, it being fine
moonshine, at the Bear, and so took water to the other side, and home.  I
to the office, where a child is laid at Sir J. Minnes's door, as there was
one heretofore.  So being good friends again, my wife seeking, it, by my
being silent I overcoming her, we to bed.

11th.  Up, and at my Office all the morning, and after dinner all the
afternoon in my house with Batelier shut up, drawing up my defence to the
Duke of York upon his great letter, which I have industriously taken this
opportunity of doing for my future use.  At it late, and my mind and head
mighty full of it all night.

12th.  At it again in the morning, and then to the Office, where till
noon, and I do see great whispering among my brethren about their replies
to the Duke of York, which vexed me, though I know no reason for it; for I
have no manner of ground to fear them.  At noon home to dinner, and, after
dinner, to work all the afternoon again.  At home late, and so to bed.

13th (Lord's day).  The like all this morning and afternoon, and finished
it to my mind.  So about four o'clock walked to the Temple, and there by
coach to St. James's, and met, to my wish, the Duke of York and Mr. Wren;
and understand the Duke of York hath received answers from Brouncker, W.
Pen, and J. Minnes; and as soon as he saw me, he bid Mr. Wren read them
over with me.  So having no opportunity of talk with the Duke of York, and
Mr. Wren some business to do, he put them into my hands like an idle
companion, to, take home with me before himself had read them, which do
give me great opportunity of altering my answer, if there was cause. So
took a hackney and home, and after supper made my wife to read them all
over, wherein she is mighty useful to me; and I find them all evasions,
and in many things false, and in few, to the full purpose. Little said
reflective on me, though W. Pen and J. Minnes do mean me in one or two
places, and J. Minnes a little more plainly would lead the Duke of York to
question the exactness of my keeping my records; but all to no purpose.
My mind is mightily pleased by this, if I can but get time to have a copy
taken of them, for my future use; but I must return them tomorrow.  So to
bed.

14th.  Up betimes, and walked to the Temple, and stopped, viewing the
Exchange, and Paul's, and St. Fayth's, where strange how the very sight of
the stones falling from the top of the steeple do make me sea-sick! But no
hurt, I hear, hath yet happened in all this work of the steeple, which is
very much.  So from the Temple I by coach to St. James's, where I find Sir
W. Pen and Lord Anglesey, who delivered this morning his answer to the
Duke of York, but I could not see it.  But after being above with the Duke
of York, but said nothing, I down with Mr. Wren; and he and I read all
over that I had, and I expounded them to him, and did so order it that I
had them home with me, so that I shall, to my heart's wish, be able to
take a copy of them.  After dinner, I by water to, White Hall; and there,
with the Cofferer and Sir Stephen Fox, attended the Commissioners of the
Treasury, about bettering our fund; and are promised it speedily.  Thence
by water home, and so all the afternoon and evening late busy at the
office, and then home to supper, and Mrs. Turner comes to see my wife
before her journey to-morrow, but she is in bed, and so sat talking to
little purpose with me a great while, and, she gone, I to bed.

15th.  Up mighty betimes, my wife and people, Mercer lying here all night,
by three o'clock, and I about five; and they before, and I after them, to
the coach in Bishopsgate Street, which was not ready to set out. So took
wife and Mercer and Deb. and W. Hewer (who are all to set out this day for
Cambridge, to cozen Roger Pepys's, to see Sturbridge Fayre); and I shewed
them the Exchange, which is very finely carried on, with good dispatch.
So walked back and saw them gone, there being only one man in the coach
besides them; and so home to the Office, where Mrs. Daniel come and staid
talking to little purpose with me to borrow money, but I did not lend her
any, having not opportunity para hater allo thing mit her. If myocarditis
has been diagnosed, the minor operations should be done if the patient
does not soon improve. The prolongation of the treatment depends on the
condition and the amount of improvement.

If the physician is in doubt as to whether or not this particular tachycardia
is caused by hyperthyroidism, the administration of sodium iodid in
doses of 0.25 gm. (4 grains) three times a day will make the diagnosis
positive within a few days. If the trouble is due to hyperthyroidism, all
of the symptoms will be aggravated; there will be more palpitation, more
nervousness, more restlessness, more sweating and more sleeplessness.

In such cases the iodid should be stopped immediately, of course, and the
proper treatment begun.

TOXIC DISTURBANCES AND HEART RATE

Under this head it is not proposed to consider disturbances of the heart
due to infections, to cardiac disease, or to localized or general acute
or chronic disease, but to discuss disturbances due to the absorption of
irritants froth the intestines, and to alcohol, tobacco and caffein.

It is hardly necessary to repeat that various toxins which may seriously
irritate the heart may be absorbed from the intestines during fermentation
or putrefactives processes in either the small or the large intestines.
The heart may be slowed by some, made rapid by others, and it is often
made irregular. The relation of the absorption of intestinal toxins
to increased blood pressure has already been described, and the necessity
of removing from the diet anything which perpetuates or increases intestinal
indigestion in all cases of high blood pressure has already been referred
to several times. The indications that such a condition of the
intestines is present are irregular action of the bowels, a large amount
of intestinal gas, sometimes watery stools, often a coated tongue, and
the presence of indican in the urine.

INTESTINAL PUTREFACTION
The most successful procedure in the management of intestinal putrefaction
is to remove meat from the diet absolutely. Laxatives in some form are
generally indicated, and one of tile best is agar- agar. Of course aloin
and cascara are always good laxatives, with an occasional dose of calomel
or saline, if such seem indicated. Some of the solid hydrogen peroxid-carrying
preparations (magnesium peroxid, calcium peroxide [Footnote: See N. N.
R., 1916, p. 232]) have been advised as bowel antiseptics, but they are
not more successful than many of the salicylic acid preparations,' and
perhaps none is more efficient than salol (phenyl salicylate) in a dose
of 0.3 gm. (5 grains), three or four times a day. Washing out the colon
with high injections is often of great value, but should not be continued
too long lest the rectum become habituated to distention, and bowel movements
not take place without an enema.

Lactic acid bacilli, best the Bulgarian, arc often of value in intestinal
fermentation. A tablet may be eaten with a little lactose or a small
lump of sucrose after each meal. Or yeast may be taken in the forth of
brewer's yeast, a tablespoonful in a glass of water, two or three times a
day, or one sixth of an ordinary compressed yeast cake dissolved is a
glass of `eater and taken once or twice a day. Or various forms of lactic
acid fermented milk may be successful.

Any particular food which causes fermentation in the intestine of the patient
should be eliminated from his diet; the patient must be individualized
as to fruits, cereals and vegetables, Nit, as stated above, meat should
ordinarily be withheld for a time at least.

ALCOHOL
Enough has already been said of the value and limitations of alcohol as a
therapeutic agent. As a beverage, when constantly used, it is liable to
cause obesity, gastric indigestion, arteriosclerosis, myocardial degeneration,
chronic nephritis and cirrhosis of the liver. Its first action is undoubtedly
as a food, if not too large amounts are taken, and therefore it is a protector
of other food, especially of fat and starch. A habitue, then, especially
if he has reached the age at which he normally adds weight, increases his
tendency to obesity, and the first mistake in his nutrition is made.
If lie takes too much alcohol when he eats or afterward, his digestion
will be interfered with. Sooner or later, then, gastritis and stomach
indigestion develop, with consequent intestinal indigestion. If lie takes
strong alcohol, like whisky, oil an empty stomach, he may sooner or later
cause serious disease of the mucous membrane of the stomach, first
chronic gastritis, and later atrophy of the glands of the stomach.

Alcohol with meals which contain meat tends to the production of an
increased amount of uric acid.

Alcohol taken before meals on an empty stomach causes sudden vasodilatation
after absorption. It goes quickly to the liver, irritates it, and little
by little causes congestions of the liver, so that sooner or later
sclerosis of this organ develops.

Alcohol probably causes arteriosclerosis not by its action per se, but
indirectly by causing gastro-intestinal indigestion and insufficiency of
the liver, as a result of which more toxins circulate in the blood,
tending to produce arteriosclerosis. Sooner or later these irritants cause
kidney irritation, and chronic interstitial nephritis may develop.
just which process becomes the farthest advanced and finally kills the
patient is an individual proposition and cannot be foretold. The finale may
be cirrhosis of the liver, uremia, arteriosclerosis, apoplexy or
myocarditis with dilatation or coronary disease.

While small, more or less undiluted closes of alcohol, as whisky
or brandy, may cause quick stimulation of the heart by reflex
irritation of the esophagus and stomach, vasodilatation occurs as
soon as the alcohol is absorbed, and if large closes are absorbed,
vasomotor paresis may occur, temporarily at least.

During acute fever processes with an increased pulse rate, provided shock
or collapse is not present, small or medium-sized doses of alcohol, by
dilating the peripheral blood vessels and increasing the peripheral
circulation, may relieve the tension of the heart and slow the pulse by
the equalization of the circulation. Some of this action may be due to
the narcotic effect of alcohol on the cerebrum.
Alcohol may thus in many instances act for good. Overdoses, as shown by
cerebral excitation, flushing of the face and increased pulse rate, will
do harm; in fact, many a patient with a serious illness, as typhoid
fever or pneumonia, is made delirious by alcohol.

     Large doses of alcohol in shock or collapse are contraindicated.
     
     Chronic overuse of alcohol may cause chronic myocarditis and fatty
     degeneration of the heart, with later weakening of the heart
     muscle and dilatation.
     
     In acute alcohol poisoning the pulse may become very rapid and weak,
and the patient may die of heart failure.

This is often seen in delirium tremens. The administration in this condition
of enormous doses of digitalis by the stomach is inexcusable, and the
reason that such patients survive such digitalis poisoning is that the
stomach does not absorb during this cardiac prostration.

A treatment as successful as any in this heart weakness in delirium tremens
is morphin sulphate, 1/2 grain, and atropin, 1/15 grain, given hypodermically,
with the administration of digitalis hypodermically for its later action
on the heart. If the heart is contracting very rapidly, an ice-bag over
the precordia will often quiet it. If the pulse is very weak, the cerebral
sedatives more frequently used in delirium tremens, such as chloral, bromids,
paraldehyd, etc., are generally contraindicated. A hot foot-bath and an
ice-cap on the head sometimes aid in establishing a more general equalization
of the circulation.

It may often be necessary to administer strychnin, although if the patient
is greatly excited it should be withheld as long as possible. For the
same reason camphor, coffee and other cardiac stimulants which cause
cerebral excitation should be withheld.

If the patient is in alcoholic coma, the pulse is generally slow, although
it may be of low pressure unless the patient is otherwise diseased. Caffein
or coffee is here indicated, and the patient should be kept warm lest he
lose necessary heat. The stomach should be emptied by an emetic, often
best by apomorphin hypodermically, unless the pulse is excessively weak.
Strychnin may also be given, and digitalis, hypodermically, if it seems
indicated. Camphor is another cardiac and cerebral stimulant that is
valuable in these cases.

The treatment of an actual degeneration of the heart from overuse of alcohol
is similar to the sane condition from other causes.

CAFFEIN
Caffein can irritate the heart and cause irregularity and tachycardia,
especially in certain persons. In fact, some can never take a single
cup of coffee without having an attack of palpitation, and many times when
coffee and tea have been unsuspected by the patient as the cause of cardiac
irritability, their removal from the diet has stopped the symptoms, and
the heart has at once acted normally.

Caffein is a stimulant and tonic to the heart, increasing its rapidity and
the strength of the contractions. It is also a cerebral stimulant, one
of the most active that we possess among the drugs.
It increases the blood pressure, principally by stimulating the vasomotor
center and by increasing the heart strength. It acts as a diuretic, not
only by increasing the circulatory force and blood pressure, but also
by acting directly on the kidney. This action on the kidney contraindicates
the use of caffein in any form, except in rare instances, when there is
acute or chronic nephritis. The increased blood pressure caused by caffein
also contraindicates its use when there is hypertension. Caffein first
accelerates the heart and later may slow it and strengthen it; but if the
dose is large or too frequently repeated, the apex of the heart
ceases to relax properly and there is an interference with the
contraction of the ventricles, the heart muscle becomes irritable,
and a tachycardia may develop.

     Therefore when a heart has serious lesions, whether of the myocardium
     or of the valves, with compensation only sufficient, the action of
     caffein in any form is contraindicated. The fact that it raises
     the blood pressure, thus increasing the force against which the
     heart must act, and that it irritates the heart muscle to more
     sturdy or irregular contraction, indicates that a patient with a
     heart lesion or with a nervously irritable heart should never drink
tea and coffee or take caffein in any beverage.

Many patients cannot sleep for many hours after they have taken coffee or
tea, as the cerebral stimulation of caffein is projected for hours after
its ingestion. Caffein does not absorb so quickly and therefore does not
act so quickly when taken in the form of tea and coffee as it does when
taken as the drug or as a beverage which contains the alkaloid. Persons
who are nervously irritable, excited and overstimulated cerebrally, with
or without high blood pressure, should not take this cerebral and nervous
excitant. This is true in early childhood and in youth, and continues
true as age advances, in most persons. It is a crime to present caffein as
a soda fountain beverage to children and young persons when the excitement
of the age is such as already to overstimulate all nervous systems and
all hearts.

A considerable majority of persons over 40 learn that they cannot drink tea
or coffee with their evening meal without finding it difficult to sleep.
Such patients, of course, should omit this stimulant. Some patients have
already recognized this fact and its cause; others must be told.

     The majority of adults are probably no worse and may be distinctly
     benefited by the morning cup of coffee and the noon coffee
     or tea, provided the amount taken is not large.
     It seems to be a fact that the drinking of coffee is on the increase,
     especially as to frequency. Certainly the five o'clock tea, with
     women, is on the increase, and we must deal with one more cerebral
     and nervous excitant in our consideration of what we shall do to slow
     this rapid age.
     
     
     TOBACCO

In spite of the fact that a large number of men today do not smoke, more
and more frequently every clinician has a patient who smokes too much.
The accuracy with which he investigates these cases depends somewhat on
his personal use of tobacco, and therefore his leniency toward a fellow
user. Perhaps the percentage of young boys who smoke excessively is larger
than the percentage of men. Whether or not the term "excessive" should be
applied to any particular amount of tobacco consumed depends entirely
on the person. What may be only a large amount for one person may be an
excessive amount for another, and even one cigar a day may be too much
for a person is as much for him as five or more cigars for another. If one
is to judge by the internal revenue report it will appear that, in spite
of the public school instruction as to the physiologic action of tobacco
and its harm, and in spite of the antitobacco leagues, the consumption
of tobacco is enormously on the increase.

Alexander Lambert [Footnote: Lambert, Alexander: Med. Rec., New York,
Feb. 13, 1915] in studying periodic drinkers and alcoholics, finds that
most patients are suffering from chronic tobacco poisoning, and if they
stop their smoking, their drinking sometimes ceases automatically.

Howat [Footnote: Howat: Am. Jour. Physiol., February, 1916.] has shown
that nicotin causes serious disturbances of the reflexes of the skin of
frogs.

Edmunds and Smith [Footnote: Edmunds and Smith: Jour. Lab. and Clin.
Med., February, 1916.] of Ann Arbor find that the livers of dogs have some
power of destroying nicotin, but their studies did not show how tolerance
to large doses of nicotin is acquired.

Neuhof [Footnote: Neuhof, Selian: Sino-Auricular Block Due to Tobacco
Poisoning, Arch. Int. Med., May, 1916, p. 659.] describes a case of
sino-auricular heart block due to tobacco poisoning.
Intermittent claudication has been noted from the overuse of tobacco, as
well as cramps in the muscles and of the legs.

A long series of investigations of the action of tobacco on high school
boys and students of colleges seems to show that the age of graduation
of smokers is older than that of nonsmokers, and that smokers require
disciplinary measures more frequently than nonsmokers.

Some years ago investigation was made by Torrence, of the Illinois State
Reformatory, in which there were 278 boys between the ages of 10 and 15
years. Ninety-two percent of these boys had the habit of smoking
cigaretes, and 85 percent were classed as cigarete fiends.
The most important action of nicotin is on the circulation. Except
during the stage when the person is becoming used to the tobacco
habit, in which stage the heart is weakened and the vasomotor
pressure lowered by his nausea and prostration, the blood pressure
is almost always raised during the period of smoking.
The heart is frequently made more rapid and the blood pressure is
certainly raised in an ordinary smoker, while even a novice may get
at first an increase, but soon he may become depressed and have a
lowering of the pressure. While a moderate smoker may have an
increase of 10 mm. in blood pressure, an excessive smoker may show
but little change. Perhaps this is because his heart muscle has
become weakened. If the person's blood pressure is high, the heart
may not increase in rapidity during smoking, and if he is nervous
beforehand and is calmed by his tobacco, the pulse will be slowed.
It has been shown that the blood pressure and pulse rate may be
affected in persons sitting in a smoke-filled room, even though
they themselves do not smoke. The length of time the increased
pressure continues depends on the person, and it is this diminishing
pressure that causes many to take another smoke. The heart is slowed
by the action of nicotin on the vagi, as these nerves are stimulated
both centrally and peripherally. An overdose of nicotin will paralyze
the vagi. The heart action then becomes rapid and perhaps irregular.
The heart muscle is first stimulated, and if too large a dose is
taken, or too much in twenty-four hours, the muscle becomes depressed
and perhaps debilitated. The consequence of such action on the heart
muscle, sooner or later, is a dilation of the left ventricle if the
overuse of the tobacco is continued.
There is, then, no possible opportunity for any discussion as to
the action of tobacco on the circulation. Its action is positive,
constantly occurs, and it is always to be considered. The only point
at this issue is as to whether or not such an activity is of
consequence to the individual. The active principle of tobacco is
nicotin, besides which it contains an aromatic camphor-like substance,
cellulose, resins, sugar, etc. Other products developed during
combustion are carbon monoxid gas, a minute amount of prussic acid
and in some varieties a considerable amount of furfurol, a poison.So with
the Duke of York and some others to his closet, and Alderman Backewell
about a Committee of Tangier, and there did agree upon a price for pieces
of eight at 4s. 6d. Present the Duke of York, Arlington, Berkeley, Sir J.
Minnes, and myself. They gone, the Duke of York did tell me how hot
Clifford is for Child, and for removing of old Officers, he saying plainly
to-night, that though D. Gawden was a man that had done the best service
that he believed any man, or any ten men, could have done, yet that it was
for the King's interest not to let it lie too long in one hand, lest
nobody should be able to serve him but one.  But the Duke of York did
openly tell him that he was not for removing of old servants that have
done well, neither in this place, nor in any other place, which is very
nobly said.  It being 7 or 8 at night, I home with Backewell by coach, and
so walked to D. Gawden's, but he not at home, and so back to my chamber,
the boy to read to me, and so to supper and to bed.

26th.  Could sleep but little last night, for my concernments in this
business of the victualling for Sir D. Gawden, so up in the morning and he
comes to me, and there I did tell him all, and give him my advice, and so
he away, and I to the office, where we met and did a little business, and
I left them and by water to attend the Council, which I did all the
morning, but was not called in, but the Council meets again in the
afternoon on purpose about it.  So I at noon to Westminster Hall and there
stayed a little, and at the Swan also, thinking to have got Doll Lane
thither, but elle did not understand my signs; and so I away and walked to
Charing Cross, and there into the great new Ordinary, by my Lord
Mulgrave's, being led thither by Mr. Beale, one of Oliver's, and now of
the King's Guards; and he sat with me while I had two grilled pigeons,
very handsome and good meat: and there he and I talked of our old
acquaintances, W. Clerke and others, he being a very civil man, and so
walked to Westminster and there parted, and I to the Swan again, but did
nothing, and so to White Hall, and there attended the King and Council,
who met and heard our answer.  I present, and then withdrew; and they sent
two hours at least afterwards about it, and at last rose; and to my great
content, the Duke of York, at coming out, told me that it was carried for
D. Gawden at 6d. 8d., and 8 3/4d.; but with great difficulty, I
understand, both from him and others, so much that Sir Edward Walker told
me that he prays to God he may never live to need to plead his merit, for
D. Gawden's sake; for that it hath stood him in no stead in this business
at all, though both he and all the world that speaks of him, speaks of him
as the most deserving man of any servant of the King's in the whole
nation, and so I think he is: but it is done, and my heart is glad at it.
So I took coach and away, and in Holborne overtook D. Gawden's coach, and
stopped and went home, and Gibson to come after, and to my house, where D.
Gawden did talk a little, and he do mightily acknowledge my kindness to
him, and I know I have done the King and myself good service in it.  So he
gone, and myself in mighty great content in what is done, I to the office
a little, and then home to supper, and the boy to read to me, and so to
bed.  This noon I went to my Lady Peterborough's house, and talked with
her about the money due to her Lord, and it gives me great trouble, her
importunity and impertinency about it.  This afternoon at Court I met with
Lord Hinchingbroke, newly come out of the country, who tells me that
Creed's business with Mrs. Pickering will do, which I am neither troubled
nor glad at.

27th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my office to finish my journall for five
days past, and so abroad and walked to White Hall, calling in at Somerset
House Chapel, and also at the Spanish Embassador's at York House, and
there did hear a little masse: and so to White Hall; and there the King
being gone to Chapel, I to walk all the morning in the Park, where I met
Mr. Wren; and he and I walked together in the Pell-Mell, it being most
summer weather that ever was seen: and here talking of several things: of
the corruption of the Court, and how unfit it is for ingenious men, and
himself particularly, to live in it, where a man cannot live but he must
spend, and cannot get suitably, without breach of his honour: and did
thereupon tell me of the basest thing of my Lord Barkeley, one of the
basest things that ever was heard of of a man, which was this: how the
Duke of York's Commissioners do let his wine-licenses at a bad rate, and
being offered a better, they did persuade the Duke of York to give some
satisfaction to the former to quit it, and let it to the latter, which
being done, my Lord Barkeley did make the bargain for the former to have
L1500 a-year to quit it; whereof, since, it is come to light that they
were to have but L800 and himself L700, which the Duke of York hath ever
since for some years paid, though this second bargain hath been broken,
and the Duke of York lost by it, [half] of what the first was.  He told me
that there hath been a seeming accommodation between the Duke of York and
the Duke of Buckingham and Lord Arlington, the two latter desiring it; but
yet that there is not true agreement between them, but they do labour to
bring in all new creatures into play, and the Duke of York do oppose it,
as particularly in this of Sir D. Gawden.  Thence, he gone, I to the
Queen's Chapel, and there heard some good singing; and so to White Hall,
and saw the King and Queen at dinner and thence with Sir Stephen Fox to
dinner: and the Cofferer with us; and there mighty kind usage, and good
discourse.  Thence spent all the afternoon walking in the Park, and then
in the evening at Court, on the Queen's side; and there met Mr. Godolphin,
who tells me that the news, is true we heard yesterday, of my Lord
Sandwich's being come to Mount's Bay, in Cornwall, and so I heard this
afternoon at Mrs. Pierce's, whom I went to make a short visit to. This
night, in the Queen's drawing-room, my Lord Brouncker told me the
difference that is now between the three Embassadors here, the Venetian,
French, and Spaniard; the third not being willing to make a visit to the
first, because he would not receive him at the door; who is willing to
give him as much respect as he did to the French, who was used no
otherwise, and who refuses now to take more of him, upon being desired
thereto, in order to the making an accommodation in this matter, which is
very pretty.  So a boat staying for me all this evening, I home in the
dark about eight at night, and so over the ruins from the Old Swan home
with great trouble, and so to hear my boy read a little, and supper and to
bed.  This evening I found at home Pelling and Wallington and one Aldrige,
and we supped and sung.

28th.  Up betimes, and Knepp's maid comes to me, to tell me that the
women's day at the playhouse is to-day, and that therefore I must be
there, to encrease their profit.  I did give the pretty maid Betty that
comes to me half-a-crown for coming, and had a baiser or two-elle being
mighty jolie.  And so I about my business.  By water to St. James's, and
there had good opportunity of speaking with the Duke of York, who desires
me again, talking on that matter, to prepare something for him to do for
the better managing of our Office, telling me that, my Lord Keeper and he
talking about it yesterday, my Lord Keeper did advise him to do so, it
being better to come from him than otherwise, which I have promised to do.
Thence to my Lord Burlington's houses the first time I ever was there, it
being the house built by Sir John Denham, next to Clarendon House; and
here I visited my Lord Hinchingbroke and his lady; Mr. Sidney Montagu
being come last night to town unexpectedly from Mount's Bay, where he left
my Lord well, eight days since, so as we may now hourly expect to hear of
his arrival at Portsmouth.  Sidney is mighty grown; and I am glad I am
here to see him at his first coming, though it cost me dear, for here I
come to be necessitated to supply them with L500 for my Lord.  He sent him
up with a declaration to his friends, of the necessity of his being
presently supplied with L2000; but I do not think he will get one.
However, I think it becomes my duty to my Lord to do something
extraordinary in this, and the rather because I have been remiss in
writing to him during this voyage, more than ever I did in my life, and
more indeed than was fit for me.  By and by comes Sir W. Godolphin to see
Mr. Sidney, who, I perceive, is much dissatisfied that he should come to
town last night, and not yet be with my Lord Arlington, who, and all the
town, hear of his being come to town, and he did, it seems, take notice of
it to Godolphin this morning: so that I perceive this remissness in
affairs do continue in my Lord's managements still, which I am sorry for;
but, above all, to see in what a condition my Lord is for money, that I
dare swear he do not know where to take up L500 of any man in England at
this time, upon his word, but of myself, as I believe by the sequel hereof
it will appear.  Here I first saw and saluted my Lady Burlington, a very
fine-speaking lady, and a good woman, but old, and not handsome; but a
brave woman in her parts.  Here my Lady Hinchingbroke tells me that she
hath bought most of the wedding-clothes for Mrs. Dickering, so that the
thing is gone through, and will soon be ended; which I wonder at, but let
them do as they will.  Here I also, standing by a candle that was brought
for sealing of a letter, do set my periwigg a-fire, which made such an odd
noise, nobody could tell what it was till they saw the flame, my back
being to the candle.  Thence to Westminster Hall and there walked a
little, and to the Exchequer, and so home by water, and after eating a bit
I to my vintner's, and there did only look upon su wife, which is mighty
handsome; and so to my glove and ribbon shop, in Fenchurch Street, and did
the like there.  And there, stopping against the door of the shop, saw
Mrs. Horsfall, now a late widow, in a coach.  I to her, and shook her by
the hand, and so she away; and I by coach towards the King's playhouse,
and meeting W. Howe took him with me, and there saw "The City Match;" not
acted these thirty years, and but a silly play: the King and Court there;
the house, for the women's sake, mighty full.  So I to White Hall, and
there all the evening on the Queen's side; and it being a most summerlike
day, and a fine warm evening, the Italians come in a barge under the
leads, before the Queen's drawing-room; and so the Queen and ladies went
out, and heard them, for almost an hour: and it was indeed very good
together; but yet there was but one voice that alone did appear
considerable, and that was Seignor Joanni.  This done, by and by they went
in; and here I saw Mr. Sidney Montagu kiss the Queen's hand, who was
mighty kind to him, and the ladies looked mightily on him; and the King
come by and by, and did talk to him. So I away by coach with Alderman
Backewell home, who is mighty kind to me, more than ordinary, in his
expressions.  But I do hear this day what troubles me, that Sir W.
Coventry is quite out of play, the King seldom speaking to him; and that
there is a design of making a Lord Treasurer, and that my Lord Arlington
shall be the man; but I cannot believe it. But yet the Duke of Buckingham
hath it in his mind, and those with him, to make a thorough alteration in
things; and, among the rest, Coventry to be out.  The Duke of York did
this day tell me how hot the whole party was in the business of Gawden;
and particularly, my Lord Anglesey tells me, the Duke of Buckingham, for
Child against Gawden; but the Duke of York did stand stoutly to it.  So
home to read and sup, and to bed.

29th (Tuesday, Michaelmas day).  Up, and to the Office, where all the
morning.


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

   TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                OCTOBER
                                  1668

     [In this part of the "Diary" no entry occurs for thirteen days,
     though there are several pages left blank.  During the interval
     Pepys went into the country, as he subsequently mentions his having
     been at Saxham, in Suffolk, during the king's visit to Lord Crofts,
     which took place at this time (see October 23rd, host).  He might
     also probably have gone to Impington to fetch his wife.  The pages
     left blank were never filled up.--B.]

October 11th (Lord's day').  Up and to church, where I find Parson Mills
come to town and preached, and the church full, most people being now come
home to town, though the season of year is as good as summer in all
respects.  At noon dined at home with my wife, all alone, and busy all the
afternoon in my closet, making up some papers with W. Hewer and at night
comes Mr. Turner and his wife, and there they tell me that Mr. Harper is
dead at Deptford, and so now all his and my care is, how to secure his
being Storekeeper in his stead; and here they and their daughter, and a
kinswoman that come along with them, did sup with me, and pretty merry,
and then, they gone, and my wife to read to me, and to bed.

12th.  Up, and with Mr. Turner by water to White Hall, there to think to
enquire when the Duke of York will be in town, in order to Mr. Turner's
going down to Audley Ends about his place; and here I met in St. James's
Park with one that told us that the Duke of York would be in town
to-morrow, and so Turner parted and went home, and I also did stop my
intentions of going to the Court, also this day, about securing Mr.
Turner's place of Petty-purveyor to Mr. Hater.  So I to my Lord
Brouncker's, thinking to have gone and spoke to him about it, but he is
gone out to town till night, and so, meeting a gentleman of my Lord
Middleton's looking for me about the payment of the L1000 lately ordered
to his Lord, in advance of his pay, which shall arise upon his going
Governor to Tangier, I did go to his Lord's lodgings, and there spoke the
first time with him, and find him a shrewd man, but a drinking man, I
think, as the world says; but a man that hath seen much of the world, and
is a Scot.  I offered him my service, though I can do him little; but he
sends his man home with me, where I made him stay, till I had gone to Sir
W. Pen, to bespeak him about Mr. Hater, who, contrary to my fears, did
appear very friendly, to my great content; for I was afraid of his
appearing for his man Burroughs.  But he did not; but did declare to me
afterwards his intentions to desire an excuse in his own business, to be
eased of the business of the Comptroller, his health not giving him power
to stay always in town, but he must go into the country.  I did say little
to him but compliment, having no leisure to think of his business, or any
man's but my own, and so away and home, where I find Sir H. Cholmly come
to town; and is come hither to see me: and he is a man that I love
mightily, as being, of a gentleman, the most industrious that ever I saw.
He staid with me awhile talking, and telling me his obligations to my Lord
Sandwich, which I was glad of; and that the Duke of Buckingham is now
chief of all men in this kingdom, which I knew before; and that he do
think the Parliament will hardly ever meet again; which is a great many
men's thoughts, and I shall not be sorry for it.  He being gone, I with my
Lord Middleton's servant to Mr. Colvill's, but he was not in town, and so
he parted, and I home, and there to dinner, and Mr. Pelling with us; and
thence my wife and Mercer, and W. Hewer and Deb., to the King's playhouse,
and I afterwards by water with them, and there we did hear the Eunuch
(who, it seems, is a Frenchman, but long bred in Italy) sing, which I
seemed to take as new to me, though I saw him on Saturday last, but said
nothing of it; but such action and singing I could never have imagined to
have heard, and do make good whatever Tom Hill used to tell me.  Here we
met with Mr. Batelier and his sister, and so they home with us in two
coaches, and there at my house staid and supped, and this night my
bookseller Shrewsbury comes, and brings my books of Martyrs, and I did pay
him for them, and did this night make the young women before supper to
open all the volumes for me.  So to supper, and after supper to read a
ridiculous nonsensical book set out by Will. Pen, for the Quakers; but so
full of nothing but nonsense, that I was ashamed to read in it. So they
gone, we to bed.

     [Penn's first work, entitled, "Truth exalted, in a short but sure
     testimony against all those religions, faiths, and worships, that
     have been formed and followed, in the darkness of apostacy; and for
     that glorious light which is now risen, and shines forth, in the
     life and doctrine of the despised Quakers .  .  .  .  by W. Penn,
     whom divine love constrains, in holy contempt, to trample on Egypt's
     glory, not fearing the King's wrath, having beheld the Majesty of
     Him who is invisible:"  London, 1668.--B.]

13th.  Up, and to the office, and before the office did speak with my Lord
Brouncker, and there did get his ready assent to T. Hater's having of Mr.
Turner's place, and so Sir J. Minnes's also: but when we come to sit down
at the Board, comes to us Mr. Wren this day to town, and tells me that
James Southern do petition the Duke of York for the Storekeeper's place of
Deptford, which did trouble me much, and also the Board, though, upon
discourse, after he was gone, we did resolve to move hard for our Clerks,
and that places of preferment may go according to seniority and merit.
So, the Board up, I home with my people to dinner, and so to the office
again, and there, after doing some business, I with Mr. Turner to the Duke
of Albemarle's at night; and there did speak to him about his appearing to
Mr. Wren a friend to Mr. Turner, which he did take kindly from me; and so
away thence, well pleased with what we had now done, and so I with him
home, stopping at my Lord Brouncker's, and getting his hand to a letter I
wrote to the Duke of York for T. Hater, and also at my Lord Middleton's,
to give him an account of what I had done this day, with his man, at
Alderman Backewell's, about the getting of his L1000 paid;

     [It was probably for this payment that the tally was obtained, the
     loss of which caused Pepys so much anxiety.  See November 26th,
     1668]

and here he did take occasion to discourse about the business of the Dutch
war, which, he says, he was always an enemy to; and did discourse very
well of it, I saying little, but pleased to hear him talk; and to see how
some men may by age come to know much, and yet by their drinking and other
pleasures render themselves not very considerable.  I did this day find by
discourse with somebody, that this nobleman was the great Major-General
Middleton; that was of the Scots army, in the beginning of the late war
against the King.  Thence home and to the office to finish my letters, and
so home and did get my wife to read to me, and then Deb to comb my head .
.  .  .

14th.  Up, and by water, stopping at Michell's, and there saw Betty, but
could have no discourse with her, but there drank.  To White Hall, and
there walked to St. James's, where I find the Court mighty full, it being
the Duke or York's birthday; and he mighty fine, and all the musick, one
after another, to my great content.  Here I met with Sir H. Cholmly; and
he and I to walk, and to my Lord Barkeley's new house; there to see a new
experiment of a cart, which; by having two little wheeles fastened to the
axle-tree, is said to make it go with half the ease and more, than another
cart but we did not see the trial made.  Thence I home, and after dinner
to St. James's, and there met my brethren; but the Duke of York being gone
out, and to-night being a play there; and a great festival, we would not
stay, but went all of us to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The
Faythful Shepherdess" again, that we might hear the French Eunuch sing,
which we did, to our great content; though I do admire his action as much
as his singing, being both beyond all I ever saw or heard. Thence with W.
Pen home, and there to get my people to read, and to supper, and so to
bed.

15th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at home at dinner,
where, after dinner, my wife and I and Deb. out by coach to the upholsters
in Long Lane, Alderman Reeve's, and then to Alderman Crow's, to see
variety of hangings, and were mightily pleased therewith, and spent the
whole afternoon thereupon; and at last I think we shall pitch upon the
best suit of Apostles, where three pieces for my room will come to almost
L80: so home, and to my office, and then home to supper and to bed.  This
day at the Board comes unexpected the warrants from the Duke of York for
Mr. Turner and Hater, for the places they desire, which contents me
mightily.

16th.  Up, and busy all the morning at the office, and before noon I took
my wife by coach, and Deb., and shewed her Mr. Wren's hangings and bed, at
St. James's, and Sir W. Coventry's in the Pell Mell, for our satisfaction
in what we are going to buy; and so by Mr. Crow's, home, about his
hangings, and do pitch upon buying his second suit of Apostles-the whole
suit, which comes to L83; and this we think the best for us, having now
the whole suit, to answer any other rooms or service.  So home to dinner,
and with Mr. Hater by water to St. James's: there Mr. Hater, to give Mr.
Wren thanks for his kindness about his place that he hath lately granted
him, of Petty Purveyor of petty emptions, upon the removal of Mr. Turner
to be Storekeeper at Deptford, on the death of Harper. And then we all up
to the Duke of York, and there did our usual business, and so I with J.
Minnes home, and there finding my wife gone to my aunt Wight's, to see her
the first time after her coming to town, and indeed the first time, I
think, these two years (we having been great strangers one to the other
for a great while), I to them; and there mighty kindly used, and had a
barrel of oysters, and so to look up and down their house, they having
hung a room since I was there, but with hangings not fit to be seen with
mine, which I find all come home to-night, and here staying an hour or two
we home, and there to supper and to bed.

17th.  While it may be better, for insurance examinations, to take the
blood pressure of the left arm in right handed persons as a truer indicator
of the general condition, the difference is generally not great. The right
arm of right handed persons usually registers a full 5 mm. higher systolic
pressure than the left arm.

The patient, being at rest and removed as far as possible from all
excitement, may be conversed with to take his mind away from the fact
that his blood pressure is being taken. He also should not watch the
dial, as any tensity on his part more or less raises the systolic pressure,
the diastolic not being much affected by such nervous tension. The armlet
having been carefully applied, it is better to inflate gradually 10 mm.
higher than the point at which the pulsation ceases in the radial. The
stethoscope is then firmly applied, but with not too great pressure,
to the forearm just below the flexure of the elbow.

The exact point at which the sound is heard in the individual patient, and
the exact amount of pressure that must be applied, will be determined by
the first reading, and then thus applied to the second reading. One
reading is never sufficient for obtaining the correct blood pressure. The
blood pressure may be read by means of the stethoscope during the gradual
raising of pressure in the cuff, note being taken of the first sound
that is heard (the diastolic pressure), and the point at which all
sound disappears, as the pressure is increased (the systolic pressure).
The former method is the one most frequently used.

By taking the systolic and diastolic pressures, the difference between the
two being the pressure pulse, we learn to interpret the pressure
pulse reading.

While the average pressure pulse has frequently been stated as 30 mm.,
it is probable that 35 at least, and often 40 mm. represents more
nearly the normal pressure pulse, and from 25 mm. on the one hand to 50 on
the other may not be abnormal.

Faught [Footnote: Faught: New York Med Jour., Feb. 27, 1915, p.
396.] states his belief that the relation of the pressure pulse to the
diastolic pressure and the systolic pressure are as 1, 2 and 3.
In other words, a normal young adult with a systolic pressure of 120
should have a diastolic pressure of 80, and therefore a pulse pressure
of 40. If these relationships become much abnormal, disease is developing
and imperfect circulation is in evidence, with the danger of broken
compensation occurring at some time in the future.

It should be remembered that the diastolic pressure represents the
pressure which the left ventricle must overcome before the blood will begin
to circulate, that is, before the aortic valve opens, while the pressure
pulse represents the power of the left ventricle in excess of the
diastolic pressure. Therefore it is easy to understand that a high
diastolic pressure is of serious import to the heart; a diastolic pressure
over 100 is significant of trouble, and over 110 is a menace.

FACTORS INCREASING THE BLOOD PRESSURE
With normal heart and arteries, exertion and exercise should increase
the systolic pressure, and generally somewhat increase the diastolic
pressure. The pressure pulse should therefore be greater.
When there is circulatory defect or abnormal blood pressure, exercise may
not increase the systolic pressure, and the pressure pulse may grow
smaller.

As a working rule it should be noted that the diastolic pressure is not
as much influenced by physiologic factors or the varying conditions of
normal life as is the systolic pressure.

In an irregularly acting heart the systolic pressure may vary greatly, from
10 to 20 mm. or more, and a ventricular contraction may not be of
sufficient power to open the semilunar valves. Such beats will show an
intermittency in the blood pressure reading as well as in the radial pulse.
The succeeding heart beats after abortive beats or after a contraction
of less power have increased force, and consequently give the highest
blood pressure. Kilgore urges that these highest pressures should not
be taken as the true systolic blood pressure, but the average of a series
of these varying blood pressures. In irregularly acting hearts it is
best to compress the arm at a point above which the systolic pressure is
heard, then gradually reduce the pressure until the first systolic
pressure is recorded, and then keep the pressure of the cuff at this point
and record the number of beats of the heart which are heard during the
minute. Then reduce the pressure 5 mm. and read again for a minute, and
so on down the scale until the varying systolic pressures are recorded.
The average of these pressures should be read as the true systolic blood
pressure. During an intermittency of the pulse from a weak or intermittently
acting ventricle, the diastolic pressure will reach its lowest point,
and in auricular fibrillation the pressure pulse from the highest systolic
to the lowest diastolic may be very great.

In arteriosclerosis the systolic may be high, and the diastolic low, and
hence a large pressure pulse. When the heart begins to fail in this
condition, the systolic pressure drops and the pressure pulse
shortens, and of course any improvement in this condition will be
shown by an increase in the systolic pressure.

The same is true with aortic regurgitation and a high systolic
pressure.

If the systolic pressure is low and the diastolic very low, or when the
heart is rapid, circulation through the coronary vessels of the heart
is more or less imperfect. Any increase in arterial pressure will
therefore help the coronary circulation. The compression of a tight bandage
around the abdomen, or the infusion of blood or saline solutions,
especially when combined with minute amounts of epinephrin, will raise
the blood pressure and increase the coronary circulation and therefore
the nutrition of the heart.

MacKenzie [Footnote: MacKenzie: Med Rec., New York, Dec. 18, 1915.], from
a large number of insurance examinations in normal subjects, finds that for
each increase of 5 pulse beats the pressure rises 1 mm. He also finds that
the effect of height on blood pressure in adults seems to be negligible.
On the other hand, it is now generally proved that persons with overweight
have a systolic pressure greater than is normal for individuals of the
same age. He believes that diastolic pressure may range anywhere
from 60 mm. of mercury to 105, and the person still be normal. A figure
much below 60 certainly shows dangerous loss of pressure, and one
far below this, except in profound heart weakness, is almost
pathognomonic of aortic regurgitation.

While the systolic range from youth to over 60 years of age
gradually increases, at the younger age anything below 105 mm. of mercury
should be considered abnormally low, and although 150 mm. at anything
over 40 has been considered a safe blood pressure as long as the diastolic
was below 105, such pressures are certainly a subject for investigation,
and if the systolic pressure is persistently above 150, insurance
companies dislike to take the risk. However, it should be again urged
in making insurance examinations that psychic disturbance or mental
tensity very readily raises the systolic pressure. MacKenzie
believes that a diastolic pressure over 100 under the age of 40 is abnormal,
and anything over the 110 mark above that age is certainly abnormal.

It has been shown, notably by Barach and Marks, [Footnote: Barach, J.
H., and Marks, W. L.: Effect of Change of Posture--Without Active Muscular
Exertion--on the Arterial and Venous Pressures, Arch. Int.
Med., May, 1913, p 485.] that posture changes the blood pressure.
When a normal person reclines, with the muscular system relaxed, there is
an increase in the systolic pressure and a decrease in the diastolic
pressure, with an increase in the pressure pulse from the figures found
when the person is standing. When, after some minutes of repose, he
assumes the erect posture again, the systolic pressure will diminish and
the diastolic pressure increase, and the pressure pulse shortens.

Excitement can raise the blood pressure from 20 to 30 mm., and if such
excitement occurs in high tension cases there is often a systolic blow
in the second intercostal space at the right of the sternum. This may not
be due to narrowing of the aortic orifice; it may be due to a sclerosis
of the aorta. On the other hand, it may be due entirely to the hastened
blood stream from the nervous excitability. This is probably the case if
this sound disappears when the patient reclines. If it increases when the
heart becomes slower and the patient is lying down, the cause is
probably organic.

This psychic influence on blood pressure is stated by Maloney and Sorapure
[Footnote: Maloney and Sorapure: New York Med. Jour., May 23, 1914, p.
1021.] "to be greater than that from posture, than that arising from
carbonic acid gas control of the blood, than that arising from mechanical
action of deep breathing upon the circulation, and than that arising from
removal of spasm from the musculature."
Weysse and Lutz [Footnote: Weysse and Lutz: Am. Jour. Physiol., May,
1915.] find that the systolic pressure varies during the day in normal
persons, and is increased by the taking of food, on an average of 8 mm.
The diastolic pressure is not much affected by food. This increased
systolic pressure is the greatest about half an hour after a meal,
and then gradually declines until the next meal.

Any active, hustling man, or a man under strain, has a rise of blood
pressure during that strain, especially notable with surgeons during
operation, or with brokers or persons under high nervous tension.
Daland [Footnote: Daland: Pennsylvania Med Jour., July, 1913.] states that
a man driving an automobile through a crowded street may have an increase
of systolic pressure of 30 mm., and an increase of 15 mm. in his diastolic
pressure, while the same man driving through the country where there is
little traffic will increase but 10 mm.
systolic and 5 mm. diastolic. Fear always increases the blood pressure. This
is probably largely due to the peripheral contractions of the blood vessels
and nervous chilling of the body.

VENOUS PRESSURE
The venous pressure, after a long neglect, is now again being studied, and
its determination is urged as of diagnostic and prognostic significance.

Hooker [Footnote: Hooker: Am. Jour. Physiol., March, 1916.] says there is a
progressive rise of venous pressure from youth to old age. He has described
an apparatus [Footnote: Hooker: Am. Jour.
Physiol., 1914, xxxv, 73.] which allows of the reading of the blood pressure
in a vein of the hand when the arm is at absolute rest, and best with
the patient in bed and reclining at an angle of 45 degrees. He finds
that just before death there is a rapid rise in venous pressure, or a
continuously high pressure above the 20 cm. of water level, and he
believes that a venous pressure continuously above this 20 cm. of water
limit which is not lowered by digitalis or other means is serious; and
that the heart cannot long stand such a condition. These dangerous rises
in venous pressure are generally coincident with a fall of systolic
arterial pressure, although there may be no constant relation between
the two. He also finds that with an increase of venous pressure the
urinary output decreases. This, of course, shows venous stasis in the kidneys
as well as a probable lowering of arterial pressure.

Clark [Footnote: Clark, A.

D.: A Study of the Diagnostic and Prognostic Significance of Venous Pressure
Observations in Cardiac Disease, Arch. Int. Med., October, 1915, p. 587.]
did not find that venesection prevented a subsequent rapid rise in venous
pressure in dire cases. From his investigations he concludes that a
venous pressure of 20 cm. of water is a danger limit between compensation
and decompensation of the heart, and a rise above this point will precede
the clinical signs of decompensation.

Hooker also found that there are daily variations of venous pressure
from 10 to 20 cm. of water, with an average of 15 cm., while in sleep
it falls 7 or 8 cm.

It seems probable that there may be a special nervous mechanism of the veins
which may increase the blood pressure in them as epinephrin solution may
cause some constriction.

Wiggers [Footnote: Wiggers C. J.: The Supravascular Venous Pulse in Man,
THE JOURNAL. A.M.A., May 1, 1915, p. 1485.] describes a method of
taking and interpreting the supraclavicular venous pulse. He also [Footnote:
Wiggers C. J.: The Contour of the Normal Arterial Pulse, THE JOURNAL.
A.M.A., April 24, 1915, p. 1380.] carefully describes the readings and the
different phases of normal arterial pulse, and urges that it should be
remembered that "the pulse as palpated or recorded from any artery is the
variation in the arterial volume produced by the intra-arterial pressure
change at that point."
A quick method of estimating the venous pressure by lowering and raising the
arm has long been utilized. The dilatation of the veins of the back of
the hand when the hand is raised should disappear, and they should
practically collapse, in normal conditions, when the hand is at the level
of the apex of the heart. When the venous pressure is increased,
this collapse will not occur until the hand is above the level of the
heart. Oliver [Footnote: Oliver: Quart.
Med Jour., 1907, i, 59.] found that the venous pressure denoted by the
collapse of the veins may be shown approximately in millimeters of mercury
by multiplying by 2 each inch above the level of the heart in which the
veins collapse. When a normal person reclines after standing there is a
fall in venous pressure, and when he again stands erect there is an
increase in venous pressure.

Bailey [Footnote: Bailey: Am. Jour Med. Sc., May, 1911, p. 709.] states
that in interpreting pulsation in the peripheral veins, it should not
be forgotten that they may overlie pulsating arteries.
Pulsation in veins may be due also to an aneurysmal dilatation, or to
direct connection with an artery. As the etiology in many instances of
varicose veins is uncertain, he thinks that they may be caused by
incompetence of the right heart, more or less temporary perhaps, from
muscular exertion. This incompetence being frequently repeated, peripheral
veins may dilate. Moreover, the contraction of the right heart may cause
a wave in the veins of the extremities, and he believes that incompetency
of the tricuspid valve may be the cause of varicosities in the veins
of the extremities.

NORMAL BLOOD PRESSURE FOR ADULTS
Woley [Footnote: Woley, II. P.: The Normal Variation of the Systolic Blood
Pressure, THE JOURNAL A. M. A., July 9, 1910, p. 121.] after studying, the
blood pressure in a thousand persons, found that the systolic average for
males at all ages was 127.5 mm., while that for females at all ages was
120 mm. He found the average in persons from 15 to 30 years to be 122
systolic; from 30 to 40, 127 mm., and from the ages of 40 to
50, to be 130 mm.

     Lee [Footnote: Lee: Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Oct. 7, 1915.] examined
     662 young men at the average age of 18, and found that the average
     systolic blood pressure was 120 mm., and the average diastolic 80
mm.

Eighty-five of these young men, however, had a systolic pressure of over
140.

It is not unusual to find that a young man who is very athletic has an
abnormally high systolic pressure.

Barach and Marks [Footnote: Barach, J. H., and Marks, W. L.: Blood
Pressures: Their Relation to Each Other and to Physical Efficiency, Arch.
Int. Med., April, 1914, p 648.] in a series of 656 healthy young men, found
that the systolic pressure was above 150 in only 10 percent, and that
in 338 cases the diastolic pressure, read at the fifth phase, did not
exceed 100 mm. in 96 percent
Nicholson [Footnote: Nicholson: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., April, 1914, p.
514.] believes that with a low systolic pressure and a large pressure pulse
there is probably a strong heart and dilated blood vessels, while
with a low systolic pressure and a small pressure pulse the heart
itself is weak, with also, perhaps, dilated blood vessels.

If there is a high systolic pressure and a correspondingly high diastolic
pressure, the balance between the vessels and the heart is compensated
as long as the heart muscle is sufficient. He believes the velocity of
the blood in the blood stream may be roughly estimated as being equal to
the pressure pulse multiplied by the pulse rate.

Faber 44 [Footnote: Faber: Ugeskrifta f. Laeger, June 10, 1915.] examined
211 obese patients, and in 182 of these there was no kidney or vascular
disturbance. In 52 percent of these 211 persons the systolic pressure was
under 140, while in the remaining 48 percent it ranged from 145 to 200
mm.

BLOOD PRESSURE IN CHILDREN
May Michael, [Footnote: Michael, May: A Study of Blood Pressure in Normal
Children, Am. Jour. Dis. Child., April, 1911, p. 272.] after a study
of the blood pressure in 350 children, came to the conclusion that the
blood pressure in children increases with age principally because of the
increase in height and weight, as she found that children of the
same age but of different weights and heights had different blood
pressures.

Sex in children makes no difference in the blood pressure, it being
determined by the height and weight.

Judson and Nicholson [Footnote: Judson, C. F., and Nicholson,
Percival: Blood Pressure in Normal Children, Am. Jour. Dis. Child., October,
1914, p. 257.] made 2,300 observations in children of from 3 to 15 years
of age, and found there was a gradual increase in the systolic blood
pressure from 3 to 10 years, and a more rapid rise from 10 to 14, with a
rapid elevation during the fourteenth year, or the age of puberty. The
systolic pressure varied from 91 mm. in the fourth year to 105.5 in the
fourteenth year, while the diastolic pressure remained almost at a uniform
level. The pressure pulse, therefore, increased progressively with the
increase of the systolic pressure.

BLOOD PRESSURE AND INSURANCE
An epitome of the consensus of opinion of the risk of accepting persons for
insurance as modified by the blood pressure is presented by
Quackenbos. [Footnote: Quackenbos: New York Med. Jour., May 15, 1915, p.
999.] Some companies have ruled that at the age of 20 they will take a
person with a systolic pressure up to 137; at the age of 30 up to 140;
at the age of 40 up to 144; at 50 up to 148, and at 60 up to 153,
although some companies will not accept a person who shows a persistent
systolic pressure of 150. Quackenbos says that when persons with higher
blood pressures than the foregoing have been kept under observation for
some time, they sooner or later show albumin and casts in the urine. In
other words, this stage of higher blood pressure is too frequently
followed by cardiovascular-renal disease for insurance companies to accept
the risk.

On the other hand, too low a systolic pressure in an adult, 105 mm.
or below, should cause suspicion of some serious condition, the most
frequent being a latent or quiescent tuberculosis. Such low pressure certainly
shows decreased power of resistance to any acute disease.

Statistics prove that there are more deaths between the ages of 40 and 50
from cardiovascular-renal disease, that is from heart, arterial and kidney
degenerations, than formerly. Whether this is due to the high tension
at which we all live, or to the fact that more children are saved and live
to middle life, or whether the prevention of many infectious diseases
saves deficient individuals for this middle life period, has not been
determined. Probably all are factors in bringing about these
statistics.

While the continued use of alcohol may not cause arteriosclerosis
directly, it can cause such impaired digestion of foods in the
stomach and intestine, and such impaired activity of the glands,
especially the liver, that toxins from imperfect digestion and from
waste products are more readily produced and absorbed, and these
are believed by some directly or indirectly to cause cardiovascular-
renal disease. Hence alcohol is an important factor in causing the
death of persons from 40 to 50 years of age.
The question of whether or not a person smokes too much, and what
constitutes oversmoking, will soon be asked on all insurance
blanks.
As tobacco almost invariably raises the blood pressure, and when
the blood pressure again falls there is again a craving in the man
for the narcotic, it must be a factor in producing, later in life,
cardiovascular-renal disease. Hence an increased systolic blood
pressure must be in part interpreted by the amount of tobacco that
the person uses. BLOOD PRESSURE AND PREGNANCY Evans [Footnote:
Evans: Month. Cyc. and Med. Bull., November, 1912, p. 649.] of
Montreal studied thirty-eight pregnant women who had eclampsia,
albuminuria and toxic vomiting, and found the systolic pressures
to vary from 200 to 140 mm. He did not find that the highest pressures
necessarily showed the greatest insufficiency of the kidneys, but
that the blood pressure must be considered in conjunction with other
toxic symptoms. In thirty-two cases he was compelled to induce labor
when the blood pressure was 150 mm. or under, while in four cases
with a blood pressure over 150 mm., the toxic symptoms were so
slight that the patients were allowed to go to term and had natural
deliveries.
A rising blood pressure in pregnancy, when associated with other
toxic symptoms, is indicative of danger, and Evans believes that a
systolic pressure of 160 mm, is ordinarily the danger limit.
Newell [Footnote: Newell, h. S.: The Blood Pressure During Pregnancy,
THE JOURNAL A. M. A., Jan. 30, 1915, p. 393.] has studied the blood
pressure during normal pregnancy, and finds that when the systolic
pressure is persistently below 100, the patient is far below par,
and that the condition should be improved in order for her to
withstand the strain of parturition. When the systolic pressure is
above 130, the patient should be carefully watched, and he thinks
that 150 is the danger line. Some pregnant women have an increasing
rise in blood pressure throughout the pregnancy, without albuminuria.
In other cases this rise is followed by the appearance of albumin
in the urine. Thirty-nine of the patients studied by Newell had
albumin in the urine without increase in blood pressure; hence he
believes that a slight amount of albumin may not be accompanied by
other symptoms. Five patients had a blood pressure of 140 or over
throughout their pregnancy, and in only one of these patients was
albumin found. All passed through labor normally, showing that a
blood pressure below 150 may not necessarily be indicative of a
serious condition; but a patient who has a systolic pressure over
135 must certainly be carefully watched.So ends this month with some quiet to my mind, though
not perfect, after the greatest falling out with my poor wife, and through
my folly with the girl, that ever I had, and I have reason to be sorry and
ashamed of it, and more to be troubled for the poor girl's sake, whom I
fear I shall by this means prove the ruin of, though I shall think myself
concerned both to love and be a friend to her.  This day Roger Pepys and
his son Talbot, newly come to town, come and dined with me, and mighty
glad I am to see them.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     A book the Bishops will not let be printed again
     All things to be managed with faction
     Being the people that, at last, will be found the wisest
     Business of abusing the Puritans begins to grow stale
     Cannot get suitably, without breach of his honour
     Caustic attack on Sir Robert Howard
     Doe from Cobham, when the season comes, bucks season being past
     Forgetting many things, which her master beat her for
     Glad to be at friendship with me, though we hate one another
     I away with great content, my mind being troubled before
     My wife having a mind to see the play "Bartholomew-Fayre"
     My wife, coming up suddenly, did find me embracing the girl
     Presbyterian style and the Independent are the best
     Ridiculous nonsensical book set out by Will. Pen, for the Quaker
     Shows how unfit I am for trouble
     Sir, your faithful and humble servant
     The most ingenious men may sometimes be mistaken
     Their ladies in the box, being grown mighty kind of a sudden
     Vexed me, but I made no matter of it, but vexed to myself
     With hangings not fit to be seen with mine


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                NOVEMBER
                                  1668

November 1st (Lord's day).  Up, and with W. Hewer at my chamber all this
morning, going further in my great business for the Duke of York, and so
at noon to dinner, and then W. Hewer to write fair what he had writ, and
my wife to read to me all the afternoon, till anon Mr. Gibson come, and he
and I to perfect it to my full mind, and so to supper and to bed, my mind
yet at disquiet that I cannot be informed how poor Deb. stands with her
mistress, but I fear she will put her away, and the truth is, though it be
much against my mind and to my trouble, yet I think that it will be fit
that she should be gone, for my wife's peace and mine, for she cannot but
be offended at the sight of her, my wife having conceived this jealousy of
me with reason, and therefore for that, and other reasons of expense, it
will be best for me to let her go, but I shall love and pity her.  This
noon Mr. Povy sent his coach for my wife and I to see, which we like
mightily, and will endeavour to have him get us just such another.

2nd.  Up, and a cold morning, by water through bridge without a cloak, and
there to Mr. Wren at his chamber at White Hall, the first time of his
coming thither this year, the Duchess coming thither tonight, and there he
and I did read over my paper that I have with so much labour drawn up
about the several answers of the officers of this Office to the Duke of
York's reflections, and did debate a little what advice to give the Duke
of York when he comes to town upon it.  Here come in Lord Anglesy, and I
perceive he makes nothing of this order for his suspension, resolving to
contend and to bring it to the Council on Wednesday when the King is come
to town to-morrow, and Mr. Wren do join with him mightily in it, and do
look upon the Duke of York as concerned more in it than he.  So to visit
Creed at his chamber, but his wife not come thither yet, nor do he tell me
where she is, though she be in town, at Stepney, at Atkins's.  So to Mr.
Povy's to talk about a coach, but there I find my Lord Sandwich, and
Peterborough, and Hinchingbroke, Charles Harbord, and Sidney Montagu; and
there I was stopped, and dined mighty nobly at a good table, with one
little dish at a time upon it, but mighty merry.  I was glad to see it:
but sorry, methought, to see my Lord have so little reason to be merry,
and yet glad, for his sake, to have him cheerful.  After dinner up, and
looked up and down the house, and so to the cellar; and thence I slipt
away, without taking leave, and so to a few places about business, and
among others to my bookseller's in Duck Lane, and so home, where the house
still full of dirt by painters and others, and will not be clean a good
while.  So to read and talk with my wife till by and by called to the
office about Sir W. Warren's business, where we met a little, and then
home to supper and to bed.  This day I went, by Mr. Povy's direction, to a
coachmaker near him, for a coach just like his, but it was sold this very
morning.

3rd.  Up, and all the morning at the Office.  At noon to dinner, and then
to the Office, and there busy till 12 at night, without much pain to my
eyes, but I did not use them to read or write, and so did hold out very
well.  So home, and there to supper, and I observed my wife to eye my eyes
whether I did ever look upon Deb., which I could not but do now and then
(and to my grief did see the poor wretch look on me and see me look on
her, and then let drop a tear or two, which do make my heart relent at
this minute that I am writing this with great trouble of mind, for she is
indeed my sacrifice, poor girle); and my wife did tell me in bed by the by
of my looking on other people, and that the only way is to put things out
of sight, and this I know she means by Deb., for she tells me that her
Aunt was here on Monday, and she did tell her of her desire of parting
with Deb., but in such kind terms on both sides that my wife is mightily
taken with her.  I see it will be, and it is but necessary, and therefore,
though it cannot but grieve me, yet I must bring my mind to give way to
it.  We had a great deal of do this day at the Office about
Clutterbucke,--[See note to February 4th, 1663-64]--I declaring my dissent
against the whole Board's proceedings, and I believe I shall go near to
shew W. Pen a very knave in it, whatever I find my Lord Brouncker.

4th.  Up, and by coach to White Hall; and there I find the King and Duke
of York come the last night, and every body's mouth full of my Lord
Anglesey's suspension being sealed; which it was, it seems, yesterday; so
that he is prevented in his remedy at the Council; and, it seems, the two
new Treasurers did kiss the King's hand this morning, brought in by my
Lord Arlington.  They walked up and down together the Court this day, and
several people joyed them; but I avoided it, that I might not be seen to
look either way.  This day also I hear that my Lord Ormond is to be
declared in Council no more Deputy Governor of Ireland, his commission
being expired: and the King is prevailed with to take it out of his hands;
which people do mightily admire, saying that he is the greatest subject of
any prince in Christendome, and hath more acres of land than any, and hath
done more for his Prince than ever any yet did.  But all will not do; he
must down, it seems, the Duke of Buckingham carrying all before him.  But
that, that troubles me most is, that they begin to talk that the Duke of
York's regiment is ordered to be disbanded; and more, that undoubtedly his
Admiralty will follow: which do shake me mightily, and I fear will have
ill consequences in the nation, for these counsels are very mad.  The Duke
of York do, by all men's report, carry himself wonderfull submissive to
the King, in the most humble manner in the world; but yet, it seems,
nothing must be spared that tends to, the keeping out of the Chancellor;
and that is the reason of all this.  The great discourse now is, that the
Parliament shall be dissolved and another called, which shall give the
King the Deane and Chapter lands; and that will put him out of debt.  And
it is said that Buckingham do knownly meet daily with Wildman and other
Commonwealth-men; and that when he is with them, he makes the King believe
that he is with his wenches; and something looks like the Parliament's
being dissolved, by Harry Brouncker's being now come back, and appears
this day the first day at White Hall; but hath not been yet with the King,
but is secure that he shall be well received, I hear.  God bless us, when
such men as he shall be restored!  But that, that pleases me most is, that
several do tell me that Pen is to be removed; and others, that he hath
resigned his place; and particularly Spragg tells me for certain that he
hath resigned it, and is become a partner with Gawden in the Victualling:
in which I think he hath done a very cunning thing; but I am sure I am
glad of it; and it will be well for the King to have him out of this
Office.  Thence by coach, doing several errands, home and there to dinner,
and then to the Office, where all the afternoon till late at night, and so
home.  Deb. hath been abroad to-day with her friends, poor girle, I
believe toward the getting of a place.  This day a boy is sent me out of
the country from Impington by my cozen Roger Pepys' getting, whom I
visited this morning at his chamber in the Strand and carried him to
Westminster Hall, where I took a turn or two with him and Sir John Talbot,
who talks mighty high for my Lord of Ormond: and I perceive this family of
the Talbots hath been raised by my Lord.  When I come home to-night I find
Deb. not come home, and do doubt whether she be not quite gone or no, but
my wife is silent to me in it, and I to her, but fell to other discourse,
and indeed am well satisfied that my house will never be at peace between
my wife and I unless I let her go, though it grieves me to the heart.  My
wife and I spent much time this evening talking of our being put out of
the Office, and my going to live at Deptford at her brother's, till I can
clear my accounts, and rid my hands of the town, which will take me a year
or more, and I do think it will be best for me to do so, in order to our
living cheap, and out of sight.

5th.  Up, and Willet come home in the morning, and, God forgive me! I
could not conceal my content thereat by smiling, and my wife observed it,
but I said nothing, nor she, but away to the office.  Presently up by
water to White Hall, and there all of us to wait on the Duke of York,
which we did, having little to do, and then I up and down the house, till
by and by the Duke of York, who had bid me stay, did come to his closet
again, and there did call in me and Mr. Wren; and there my paper, that I
have lately taken pains to draw up, was read, and the Duke of York pleased
therewith; and we did all along conclude upon answers to my mind for the
Board, and that that, if put in execution, will do the King's business.
But I do now more and more perceive the Duke of York's trouble, and that
he do lie under great weight of mind from the Duke of Buckingham's
carrying things against him; and particularly when I advised that he would
use his interest that a seaman might come into the room of W. Pen, who is
now declared to be gone from us to that of the Victualling, and did shew
how the Office would now be left without one seaman in it, but the
Surveyour and the Controller, who is so old as to be able to do nothing,
he told me plainly that I knew his mind well enough as to seamen, but that
it must be as others will.  The fluid should be withdrawn slowly and the
pulse carefully watched. The withdrawal of a small amount of fluid may later
seem to be the starting cause of resorption of the rest of the fluid.
On the other hand, it may often be not of more value than the simple
removal of the immediate pressure, the fluid may again accumulate, and
more radical surgery must be performed.

4. To Strengthen the Heart.--Most of the methods of meeting this indication
have already been stated, namely, absolute rest; absolute quiet; the use
of the bed pan; any movement that must be made should be deliberate; the
nurse and other attendants must be quiet; necessary conversation must
be brief, and every method must be used to quiet and prevent the heart's
action from becoming rapid. The food taken should be small in amount and
nonstimulating; that is, no tea or coffee should be given, and nothing
too hot or too cold.
Movements of the bowels should be caused with the least possible general
disturbance. If the patient does not sleep, he must be made to sleep. The
whole body and the nervous system must have periods of rest. If the heart
is very weak, small closes of morphin may be used. If the heart is not weak,
bromids or chloral may be given. If the blood pressure is high, such
hypnotics will lower it, or if the heart is strong and the condition does
not contraindicate it, aconite may be used in small doses, for a day or
two, unless the fever is high and it seems advisable to use one of
the coal-tar antipyretics, which reduce the blood tension and the
heart activity.

As stated above, pain must not be allowed. Sometimes, when the heart has
not been injured by prolonged fever, digitalis in small doses may slow
the heart and act for good.

Convalescence.--The convalescence should be prolonged as in any other cardiac
inflammation. The patient should be given more and more nourishing food,
and the iron tonic may be changed to a capsule containing 0.05 gm. of quinin
and 0.05 gm. of reduced iron, three times a day.

It is a question as to when patients convalescent from pericarditis
should be permitted exercise. It has been thought that gentle movements
and possibly exercise, sooner than theoretically justified, might cause
the heart to beat a little more actively and possibly prevent the
formation of tight adhesions between the two layers of the pericardium.
Whether such activity of the heart will prevent adhesions is something
that has not been determined.

The small doses of sodium iodid, perhaps 0.2 gm. (3 grains) two or three
times a day, should be continued for some time. Iodid in this dosage
does no harm and may do a great deal of good.

ADHERENT PERICARDITIS
Following dry pericarditis or pericarditis with an exudate, especially when
the exudate is fibrinous in character, the fibrous substance which is not
absorbed or resorbed may develop into connective tissue, and the two
pericardial surfaces become permanently grown together, causing the
so-called adherent pericarditis. These adhesions between the two surfaces
of the pericardium may be general throughout the entire pericardial
sac, or they may be limited to some one or more parts of the
pericardium.
Perhaps one of the most frequent points of adhesion is the anterior part
of the pericardium, while the apex is the part most likely to be free,
even when other parts of the pericardium have grown together. This freedom
of the apex is probably due to the constant and more extensive motion
of the apical portion of the heart, and is the reason that it has been
suggested, as referred to under acute pericarditis, that, other conditions
not contraindicating, the patient may be allowed to move about a
little during convalescence to cause the heart to beat more actively.
Sometimes the surfaces of the pericardium are not closely adherent to
each other, but bands of adhesion stretch from one surface to the
other.

After adhesions have taken place between the two layers of the pericardium,
the action of the heart is impaired, serious interference with the
cardiac action may develop, and sudden death may occur. If the heart
is given all the rest possible during the acute phase of the disease,
there will be less likelihood of the surfaces becoming so irritated that
adhesions readily form. Anything which permits complete absorption and
resorption of tile exudate will tend to prevent these hampering
adhesions.

If the adhesions are such as to cause irregular heart, recurrent pain and
the danger of sudden death, surgical help has been suggested. This surgical
procedure is to remove a portion of the ribs, perhaps of the third, fourth
and fifth, to allow the heart more freedom of action to compensate for
the impairment of its activity from the adhesions.
Such an operation was first suggested by Brauer of Heidelberg in
1902.

     The question of the best method of producing anesthesia in
     this condition of the heart is a serious one.

A patient might die during the anesthesia; but he might also die at any
time from cardiac spasm. In certain instances, in adults, local anesthesia
might be sufficient. Pain reflexes, however, would be serious. Such an
operation would be indicated when the apex is fixed so that there is
a constant sensation of hugging of the heart at the fourth and fifth ribs,
with paroxysms of pain and cardiac weakness.

MYOCARDIAL DISTURBANCES

While the myocardium is the most important muscle structure of the body,
it has but recently been studied carefully or well understood clinically
or pathologically. A heart was "hypertrophied" or "dilated" or perhaps
"fatty." It suffered from "pain," "angina pectoris," from some "serious
weakness" or from "coronary disease," and that ended the pathology and
the clinical diagnosis. This is the age of heart defects; no one can
understand a patient's condition now, whatever ails him, without studying
his heart. No one can treat a patient properly now without considering
the management of the circulation. No one should administer a drug now
without considering what it will do to the patient's heart.

Although we are scientifically interested in the administration of
specific treatments, antitoxins and vaccines; although we have a better
understanding of food values, and order diets with more careful consideration
of the exact needs of the individual, and although we are using various
physical methods to promote elimination of toxins, poisons and products
of metabolism, we have until lately forgotten the physical fact that one
thirteenth of the weight of a normal adult is blood. A man who weighs 170
pounds has 13 pounds of blood. This proportion is not true in the obese,
and is not true in children.

Whether the person is sick in bed, miserable though up and about, or
beginning to feel the first sensations of slight incapacity for his life
work, his ability properly to circulate this one thirteenth of his weight
through the various arterial and venous channels and capillary tracts must,
with the increasing tension and speed of our lives, be taken into
consideration.

The more and more frequently repeated statements that the operation was
successfully performed but that the patient died of shock, and that the
typhoid fever and the pneumonia were being successfully combated, but that
the patient died of heart failure, together with the increase in
arteriosclerosis, cardiac disturbances and renal disease, emphatically
present the necessity of more carefully studying the circulation.

A better understanding and the constant study of the blood pressure shows
nothing but the necessity of the age. The unwillingness of the patient
to suffer pain, even for a few minutes, without some narcotic, generally
a cardiac debilitating drug, means that, if he is a sufferer from chronic
or recurrent pain, he has taken a great deal of medicine which has done his
heart no good. Repeated high tension of life raises the blood pressure and
puts more work on the heart. Therefore the heart is found weary, if
not actually degenerated, when any serious accident, medical or surgical,
happens to the patient.

The requirements of the age have, then, necessitated that the heart be more
carefully studied, and therefore the heart strength and its disturbances
are better understood. The mere determination as to where the apex beat
is located, and as to what murmurs may be present is not sufficient; we
must attempt to determine the probable condition of the myocardium. The
following conditions are recognized: (1) acute myocarditis, (2) chronic
myocarditis (fibrosis, cardiosclerosis), (3) fatty degeneration, and
(4) fatty heart.

ACUTE MYOCARDITIS
Probably most acute infections cause more or less myocarditis, depending
on their intensity and their prolongation. This disturbance of the
heart is often unrecognized, and has been simply referred to as "the heart
growing weaker from the fever process." The acute infections most likely
to cause a myocarditis are rheumatism, influenza, sepsis, cerebrospinal
meningitis, diphtheria, typhoid fever, scarlet fever, and mouth and
throat infections. It is probably rare when acute endocarditis occurs that
more or less myocarditis is not present. The acute myocarditis may develop
some fatty degeneration, and with this softening and weakening of the heart
muscle acute dilatation readily occurs, which may be a cause of sudden
death, or, if less serious, may be the cause of prolonged disability, if
the heart ever recovers its original size and strength.

The symptoms are often indefinite, and the diagnosis of the condition
hardly possible. It may be taken for granted, however, that hardly
any serious illness can long continue without cardiac muscle
disturbance.

If endocarditis is present, soft systolic murmurs soon appear. With the
acute myocarditis developing, the apex beat is less positive, less accentuated,
and later it becomes diffuse and even feeble. The closure of the aortic
valve is less typically sharp, showing that the blood vessels are not so
thoroughly filled. The peripheral circulation is not so active, the
blood pressure falls, and the heart becomes more rapid, especially on the
least exertion. All of these signs indicate myocardial weakness.

The treatment of this condition is largely preventive. It should be well
recognized that prolonged high fever, prolonged insufficient or improper
nutrition, prolonged acute pain, and especially prolonged septic processes
will always cause myocardial degeneration. It should be recognized that
after ether and chloroform anesthesia, especially after chloroform, the
heart muscle may be disturbed and the tonicity be lost. Therefore after
anesthesia, after operations, and after all illnesses which have
lasted more than a few days, the convalescence of the patient must be more
or less deliberate. Sudden rising, sudden erect posture, the
exertion of walking too early, going up stairs too early or taking
moderate, and later severe exercise too early, may cause dilatation
of the heart muscle that has become weakened by acute myocarditis.
If acute myocarditis is believed or known to be present, cardiac tonics
such as digitalis should not be given; large doses of strychnin should
not be given; vasocontractors such as ergot should not be given; large
amounts of food or large bulks of liquid should not be taken into the stomach
at one time; in fact, unless there is some special indication, the twenty-four
hour amount of fluid should be diminished. The surface circulation and
the muscle circulation should be improved by such cold or warm water
applications as the disease or condition calls for.

Massage should be early inaugurated to promote the return circulation. The
heart should be treated as though it were the frailest of Venetian
glass and would crack with the least rough handling, or even with a
rapid change of temperature, great cold or too much heat. A prolonged,
tedious convalescence, with the return to activity so graded as to give
the heart no strain, and to keep its work always just below what it is able
to do, will often mean return to perfect strength and health.

No cardiac debilitating drug should be administered when myocarditis has
been surmised or diagnosed. The safest hypnotic, if one is needed, is
morphin in small doses. If there are weakening perspirations, atropin
should be given, especially as it is also a circulatory stimulant. Calcium
in almost any form seems to be of value in the majority of heart conditions.
It is a sedative to the nervous system, and is certainly indicated in
acute myocarditis.
Calcium lactate is perhaps the best salt to administer, in doses of 0.25
gm. (4 grains), three or four times in twenty-four hours.
Calcium glycerophosphate may be used, in powder form or in capsule, in doses
of 0.30 gm. (5 grains) three or four times in twenty-four hours; or
lime-water may be given.

An exact prognosis of this inflammation is impossible. We do not know how
far an acute myocarditis may progress and entire recovery take place;
we do not know how slight a myocarditis may cause serious symptoms.
Clinically we know that many patients after serious illness never again
have perfect circulatory strength. Other patients almost die of heart
failure and yet apparently absolutely recover their ability to do hard
physical work.

CHRONIC MYOCARDITIS: FIBROUS
Chronic myocarditis may develop on an acute myocarditis, but is generally a
slowly progressive chronic process from the beginning; it occurs mostly
in persons past middle life, and as a rule is not primarily associated
with rheumatism or valvular disease of the heart. Perhaps generally the
term "chronic myocarditis" is incorrect, as a real inflammatory condition
is not present and has not been present; it is really a degenerative
process with the development of connective tissue, a fibrosis and more or
less hardening of the arterioles, a cardiosclerosis. In many instances
this fibrosis is associated with fat deposits or fatty degeneration.
The disease is often caused by a narrowing or obstruction or calcareous
degeneration of the coronary arteries, thus diminishing the blood supply
to the heart muscle. This chronic myocardial degeneration is often a part
of the general arteriosclerosis, and is an important factor in what is
termed cardiovascular-renal disease.
In simple chronic renal diseases the heart first normally hypertrophies to
overcome the increased blood tension and increased resistance.

The principal causes of this degeneration are normal old age, or premature
age caused by various conditions. In other words, anything which hastens
arteriosclerosis will cause myocardial degeneration.
The causes recognized as most frequently producing this condition
are syphilis; gout; repeated attacks of rheumatism; excess in the
use of alcohol (meaning repeated daily too large amounts, as well
as actual dipsomania); the overuse of tobacco; excess in drinking
tea or coffee; general overeating, and excessive eating of meat in
particular, if the organs of elimination do not work perfectly and
if such eating causes or allows putrefactive changes in the intestines;
and progressive, prolonged wasting diseases, such as tuberculosis
and cancer.

It has also seemed in some cases that the only cause was excessive, hard
physical labor, including excessive athletic work, and in other
cases that prolonged anxiety and worry have been causes of cardiac
degeneration and actual cardiac failure.
Prolonged absorption of toxins from mouth and tonsil infections may be
a not infrequent cause.

These myocardial changes are sometimes associated with chronic pericarditis
and chronic endocarditis, and may accompany or follow valvular disease of
the heart. Failure of compensation in valvular disease and dilatation of
the heart are sequences which occur sooner or later.

SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS
The symptoms of chronic myocardial degeneration are progressive weakness,
slight at first, noticeable on exertion (and what was not
considered exertion becomes such), as evidenced by slight palpitation,
slight shortness of breath, leg weariness and mental tire. The heart
frequently becomes more rapid, not only with exertion and change of position
to the erect, but even after eating.
Slight cardiac stimulants, as coffee, affect the heart more than previously;
there is some sleeplessness, more or less troublesome, and more or less
indigestion. There may be mental irritability and some mental deterioration,
as shown in various ways. There are likely to be slight edemas of the
lower extremities toward night.
The amount of urine may diminish. A previously high blood pressure becomes
lower. The pulse may be occasionally intermittent, and later actually
irregular.
The physical signs often show an enlargement of the heart, with
increased activity at first, from irritability of the heart and a
lack of perfect coordination; later the heart may show typical signs
of weakness. Not infrequently a heart suffering from fibrosis acts
perfectly until some sudden exertion, as lifting, running or serious
illness causes it suddenly to become weak. Such a heart rarely
regains its former strength. This occurs frequently to those who
have supposed themselves to be in perfect physical health. Some
sudden strain which they have previously been able to endure without
injury, such as carrying a weight upstairs, cranking a refractory
engine, pumping up a series of tires, or walking rapidly with a
younger or more active companion, will suddenly give cardiac distress
signals, serious exhaustion and more or less lengthy prostration,
perhaps for an hour or so, or perhaps for several days.
Permanent cardiac weakness may follow, or compensation may again
occur, to be more easily broken later. Slight cardiac pains and
sensations referred to the cardiac region become frequent. Disliking
to lie on the left side, when previously the patient has been able
to sleep on this side without discomfort, is an evidence of cardiac
disturbance. There may be no real pains, but the patient becomes
conscious of his heart, perhaps for the first time in his life.
This alone is an indication of coming trouble.
If these signs and symptoms develop late in life, or at any age
with other symptoms of sclerosis or senility, little can be done
therapeutically except to afford temporary relief and to prevent
the occurrence of acute attacks of cardiac distress or dyspnea. If
the disturbance is really due to chronic cardiac degeneration, the
sooner the patient learns that his ability is restricted, that his
life is narrowed, the better for his future.

MANAGEMENT
The advice he should receive is well understood: to avoid physical
efforts; to avoid mental tire; to avoid overeating or overdrinking
of any foods or liquids; to reduce or abstain from alcohol, coffee,
tea and tobacco, depending on what seems advisable in the individual
case; to reduce the amount of meat eaten, especially if there is
intestinal indigestion; to relieve intestinal indigestion; to cause
free daily movements of the bowels; to abstain from any food which
tends to cause gastric or intestinal flatulence; to abstain from
such foods as contain nucleins, if the patient is gouty; to take
frequent warm baths (not too hot) to promote the secretions and the
circulation in the skin, and to take such daily exercise as seems
advisable.I left it to him to do as the Duke
of York pleases; and so fell to other talk, and with great freedom, of
public things; and he told me, upon my several inquiries to that purpose,
that he did believe it was not yet resolved whether the Parliament should
ever meet more or no, the three great rulers of things now standing
thus:--The Duke of Buckingham is absolutely against their meeting, as
moved thereto by his people that he advises with, the people of the late
times, who do never expect to have any thing done by this Parliament for
their religion, and who do propose that, by the sale of the Church-lands,
they shall be able to put the King out of debt: my Lord Keeper is utterly
against putting away this and choosing another Parliament, lest they prove
worse than this, and will make all the King's friends, and the King
himself, in a desperate condition: my Lord Arlington know not which is
best for him, being to seek whether this or the next will use him worst.
He tells me that he believes that it is intended to call this Parliament,
and try them with a sum of money; and, if they do not like it, then to
send them going, and call another, who will, at the ruin of the Church
perhaps, please the King with what he will for a time.  And he tells me,
therefore, that he do believe that this policy will be endeavoured by the
Church and their friends--to seem to promise the King money, when it shall
be propounded, but make the King and these great men buy it dear, before
they have it. He tells me that he is really persuaded that the design of
the Duke of Buckingham is, by bringing the state into such a condition as,
if the King do die without issue, it shall, upon his death, break into
pieces again; and so put by the Duke of York, who they have disobliged,
they know, to that degree, as to despair of his pardon.  He tells me that
there is no way to rule the King but by brisknesse, which the Duke of
Buckingham hath above all men; and that the Duke of York having it not,
his best way is what he practices, that is to say, a good temper, which
will support him till the Duke of Buckingham and Lord Arlington fall out,
which cannot be long first, the former knowing that the latter did, in the
time of the Chancellor, endeavour with the Chancellor to hang him at that
time, when he was proclaimed against.  And here, by the by, he told me
that the Duke of Buckingham did, by his friends, treat with my Lord
Chancellor, by the mediation of Matt. Wren and Matt. Clifford, to fall in
with my Lord Chancellor; which, he tells me, he did advise my Lord
Chancellor to accept of, as that, that with his own interest and the Duke
of York's, would undoubtedly have assured all to him and his family; but
that my Lord Chancellor was a man not to be advised, thinking himself too
high to be counselled: and so all is come to nothing; for by that means
the Duke of Buckingham became desperate, and was forced to fall in with
Arlington, to his [the Chancellor's] ruin.  Thence I home, and there to
talk, with great pleasure all the evening, with my wife, who tells me that
Deb, has been abroad to-day, and is come home and says she has got a place
to go to, so as she will be gone tomorrow morning.  This troubled me, and
the truth is, I have a good mind to have the maidenhead of this girl,
which I should not doubt to have if je could get time para be con her.
But she will be gone and I not know whither.  Before we went to bed my
wife told me she would not have me to see her or give her her wages, and
so I did give my wife L10 for her year and half a quarter's wages, which
she went into her chamber and paid her, and so to bed, and there, blessed
be God! we did sleep well and with peace, which I had not done in now
almost twenty nights together.  This afternoon I went to my coachmaker and
Crow's, and there saw things go on to my great content. This morning, at
the Treasury-chamber, I did meet Jack Fenn, and there he did shew me my
Lord Anglesey's petition and the King's answer: the former good and stout,
as I before did hear it: but the latter short and weak, saying that he was
not, by what the King had done, hindered from taking the benefit of his
laws, and that the reason he had to suspect his mismanagement of his money
in Ireland, did make him think it unfit to trust him with his Treasury in
England, till he was satisfied in the former.

14th.  Up, and had a mighty mind to have seen or given her a little money,
to which purpose I wrapt up 40s. in paper, thinking to have given her a
little money, but my wife rose presently, and would not let me be out of
her sight, and went down before me into the kitchen, and come up and told
me that she was in the kitchen, and therefore would have me go round the
other way; which she repeating and I vexed at it, answered her a little
angrily, upon which she instantly flew out into a rage, calling me dog and
rogue, and that I had a rotten heart; all which, knowing that I deserved
it, I bore with, and word being brought presently up that she was gone
away by coach with her things, my wife was friends, and so all quiet, and
I to the Office, with my heart sad, and find that I cannot forget the
girl, and vexed I know not where to look for her.  And more troubled to
see how my wife is by this means likely for ever to have her hand over me,
that I shall for ever be a slave to her--that is to say, only in matters
of pleasure, but in other things she will make [it] her business, I know,
to please me and to keep me right to her, which I will labour to be
indeed, for she deserves it of me, though it will be I fear a little time
before I shall be able to wear Deb, out of my mind.  At the Office all the
morning, and merry at noon, at dinner; and after dinner to the Office,
where all the afternoon, doing much business, late.  My mind being free of
all troubles, I thank God, but only for my thoughts of this girl, which
hang after her.  And so at night home to supper, and then did sleep with
great content with my wife.  I must here remember that I have lain with my
moher as a husband more times since this falling out than in I believe
twelve months before.  And with more pleasure to her than I think in all
the time of our marriage before.

15th (Lord's day).  Up, and after long lying with pleasure talking with my
wife, and then up to look up and down our house, which will when our
upholster hath done be mighty fine, and so to my chamber, and there did do
several things among my papers, and so to the office to write down my
journal for 6 or 7 days, my mind having been so troubled as never to get
the time to do it before, as may appear a little by the mistakes I have
made in this book within these few days.  At noon comes Mr. Shepley to
dine with me and W. Howe, and there dined and pretty merry, and so after
dinner W. Howe to tell me what hath happened between him and the
Commissioners of late, who are hot again, more than ever, about my Lord
Sandwich's business of prizes, which I am troubled for, and the more
because of the great security and neglect with which, I think, my Lord do
look upon this matter, that may yet, for aught I know, undo him.  They
gone, and Balty being come from the Downs, not very well, is come this day
to see us, I to talk with him, and with some pleasure, hoping that he will
make a good man.  I in the evening to my Office again, to make an end of
my journall, and so home to my chamber with W. Hewer to settle some
papers, and so to supper and to bed, with my mind pretty quiet, and less
troubled about Deb. than I was, though yet I am troubled, I must confess,
and would be glad to find her out, though I fear it would be my ruin.
This evening there come to sit with us Mr. Pelling, who wondered to see my
wife and I so dumpish, but yet it went off only as my wife's not being
well, and, poor wretch, she hath no cause to be well, God knows.

16th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there at the robe chamber at a
Committee for Tangier, where some of us--my Lord Sandwich, Sir W.
Coventry, and myself, with another or two--met to debate the business of
the Mole, and there drew up reasons for the King's taking of it into his
own hands, and managing of it upon accounts with Sir H. Cholmley.  This
being done I away to Holborne, about Whetstone's Park, where I never was
in my life before, where I understand by my wife's discourse that Deb. is
gone, which do trouble me mightily that the poor girle should be in a
desperate condition forced to go thereabouts, and there not hearing of any
such man as Allbon, with whom my wife said she now was, I to the Strand,
and there by sending Drumbleby's boy, my flageolet maker, to Eagle Court,
where my wife also by discourse lately let fall that he did lately live, I
find that this Dr. Allbon is a kind of poor broken fellow that dare not
shew his head nor be known where he is gone, but to Lincoln's Inn Fields I
went to Mr. Povy's, but missed him, and so hearing only that this Allbon
is gone to Fleet Street, I did only call at Martin's, my bookseller's, and
there bought "Cassandra," and some other French books for my wife's
closet, and so home, having eat nothing but two pennyworths of oysters,
opened for me by a woman in the Strand, while the boy went to and again to
inform me about this man, and therefore home and to dinner, and so all the
afternoon at the office, and there late busy, and so home to supper, and
pretty pleasant with my wife to bed, rested pretty well.

17th.  Up, and to the Office all the morning, where the new Treasurers
come, their second time, and before they sat down, did discourse with the
Board, and particularly my Lord Brouncker, about their place, which they
challenge, as having been heretofore due, and given to their predecessor;
which, at last, my Lord did own hath been given him only out of courtesy
to his quality, and that he did not take it as a right at the Board: so
they, for the present, sat down, and did give him the place, but, I think,
with an intent to have the Duke of York's directions about it. My wife and
maids busy now, to make clean the house above stairs, the upholsters
having done there, in her closet and the blue room, and they are mighty
pretty.  At my office all the afternoon and at night busy, and so home to
my wife, and pretty pleasant, and at mighty ease in my mind, being in
hopes to find Deb., and without trouble or the knowledge of my wife.  So
to supper at night and to bed.

18th.  Lay long in bed talking with my wife, she being unwilling to have
me go abroad, saying and declaring herself jealous of my going out for
fear of my going to Deb., which I do deny, for which God forgive me, for I
was no sooner out about noon but I did go by coach directly to Somerset
House, and there enquired among the porters there for Dr. Allbun, and the
first I spoke with told me he knew him, and that he was newly gone into
Lincoln's Inn Fields, but whither he could not tell me, but that one of
his fellows not then in the way did carry a chest of drawers thither with
him, and that when he comes he would ask him.  This put me into some
hopes, and I to White Hall, and thence to Mr. Povy's, but he at dinner,
and therefore I away and walked up and down the Strand between the two
turnstiles, hoping to see her out of a window, and then employed a porter,
one Osberton, to find out this Doctor's lodgings thereabouts, who by
appointment comes to me to Hercules pillars, where I dined alone, but
tells me that he cannot find out any such, but will enquire further.
Thence back to White Hall to the Treasury a while, and thence to the
Strand, and towards night did meet with the porter that carried the chest
of drawers with this Doctor, but he would not tell me where he lived,
being his good master, he told me, but if I would have a message to him he
would deliver it.  At last I told him my business was not with him, but a
little gentlewoman, one Mrs. Willet, that is with him, and sent him to see
how she did from her friend in London, and no other token.  He goes while
I walk in Somerset House, walk there in the Court; at last he comes back
and tells me she is well, and that I may see her if I will, but no more.
So I could not be commanded by my reason, but I must go this very night,
and so by coach, it being now dark, I to her, close by my tailor's, and
she come into the coach to me, and je did baiser her . .  .  .  I did
nevertheless give her the best council I could, to have a care of her
honour, and to fear God, and suffer no man para avoir to do con her as je
have done, which she promised.  Je did give her 20s. and directions para
laisser sealed in paper at any time the name of the place of her being at
Herringman's, my bookseller in the 'Change, by which I might go para her,
and so bid her good night with much content to my mind, and resolution to
look after her no more till I heard from her. And so home, and there told
my wife a fair tale, God knows, how I spent the whole day, with which the
poor wretch was satisfied, or at least seemed so, and so to supper and to
bed, she having been mighty busy all day in getting of her house in order
against to-morrow to hang up our new hangings and furnishing our best
chamber.

19th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning, with my heart full of joy to
think in what a safe condition all my matters now stand between my wife
and Deb, and me, and at noon running up stairs to see the upholsters, who
are at work upon hanging my best room, and setting up my new bed, I find
my wife sitting sad in the dining room; which enquiring into the reason
of, she begun to call me all the false, rotten-hearted rogues in the
world, letting me understand that I was with Deb. yesterday, which,
thinking it impossible for her ever to understand, I did a while deny, but
at last did, for the ease of my mind and hers, and for ever to discharge
my heart of this wicked business, I did confess all, and above stairs in
our bed chamber there I did endure the sorrow of her threats and vows and
curses all the afternoon, and, what was worse, she swore by all that was
good that she would slit the nose of this girle, and be gone herself this
very night from me, and did there demand 3 or L400 of me to buy my peace,
that she might be gone without making any noise, or else protested that
she would make all the world know of it.  So with most perfect confusion
of face and heart, and sorrow and shame, in the greatest agony in the
world I did pass this afternoon, fearing that it will never have an end;
but at last I did call for W. Hewer, who I was forced to make privy now to
all, and the poor fellow did cry like a child, [and] obtained what I could
not, that she would be pacified upon condition that I would give it under
my hand never to see or speak with Deb, while I live, as I did before with
Pierce and Knepp, and which I did also, God knows, promise for Deb. too,
but I have the confidence to deny it to the perjury of myself.  So, before
it was late, there was, beyond my hopes as well as desert, a durable
peace; and so to supper, and pretty kind words, and to bed, and there je
did hazer con eile to her content, and so with some rest spent the night
in bed, being most absolutely resolved, if ever I can master this bout,
never to give her occasion while I live of more trouble of this or any
other kind, there being no curse in the world so great as this of the
differences between myself and her, and therefore I do, by the grace of
God, promise never to offend her more, and did this night begin to pray to
God upon my knees alone in my chamber, which God knows I cannot yet do
heartily; but I hope God will give me the grace more and more every day to
fear Him, and to be true to my poor wife.  This night the upholsters did
finish the hanging of my best chamber, but my sorrow and trouble is so
great about this business, that it puts me out of all joy in looking upon
it or minding how it was.

20th.  This morning up, with mighty kind words between my poor wife and I;
and so to White Hall by water, W. Hewer with me, who is to go with me
every where, until my wife be in condition to go out along with me
herself; for she do plainly declare that she dares not trust me out alone,
and therefore made it a piece of our league that I should alway take
somebody with me, or her herself, which I am mighty willing to, being, by
the grace of God, resolved never to do her wrong more.  We landed at the
Temple, and there I bid him call at my cozen Roger Pepys's lodgings, and I
staid in the street for him, and so took water again at the Strand stairs;
and so to White Hall, in my way I telling him plainly and truly my
resolutions, if I can get over this evil, never to give new occasion for
it.  He is, I think, so honest and true a servant to us both, and one that
loves us, that I was not much troubled at his being privy to all this, but
rejoiced in my heart that I had him to assist in the making us friends,
which he did truly and heartily, and with good success, for I did get him
to go to Deb. to tell her that I had told my wife all of my being with her
the other night, that so if my wife should send she might not make the
business worse by denying it.  While I was at White Hall with the Duke of
York, doing our ordinary business with him, here being also the first time
the new Treasurers.  W. Hewer did go to her and come back again, and so I
took him into St. James's Park, and there he did tell me he had been with
her, and found what I said about my manner of being with her true, and had
given her advice as I desired. I did there enter into more talk about my
wife and myself, and he did give me great assurance of several particular
cases to which my wife had from time to time made him privy of her loyalty
and truth to me after many and great temptations, and I believe them
truly.  I did also discourse the unfitness of my leaving of my employment
now in many respects to go into the country, as my wife desires, but that
I would labour to fit myself for it, which he thoroughly understands, and
do agree with me in it; and so, hoping to get over this trouble, we about
our business to Westminster Hall to meet Roger Pepys, which I did, and did
there discourse of the business of lending him L500 to answer some
occasions of his, which I believe to be safe enough, and so took leave of
him and away by coach home, calling on my coachmaker by the way, where I
like my little coach mightily.  But when I come home, hoping for a further
degree of peace and quiet, I find my wife upon her bed in a horrible rage
afresh, calling me all the bitter names, and, rising, did fall to revile
me in the bitterest manner in the world, and could not refrain to strike
me and pull my hair, which I resolved to bear with, and had good reason to
bear it.  So I by silence and weeping did prevail with her a little to be
quiet, and she would not eat her dinner without me; but yet by and by into
a raging fit she fell again, worse than before, that she would slit the
girl's nose, and at last W. Hewer come in and come up, who did allay her
fury, I flinging myself, in a sad desperate condition, upon the bed in the
blue room, and there lay while they spoke together; and at last it come to
this, that if I would call Deb. whore under my hand and write to her that
I hated her, and would never see her more, she would believe me and trust
in me, which I did agree to, only as to the name of whore I would have
excused, and therefore wrote to her sparing that word, which my wife
thereupon tore it, and would not be satisfied till, W. Hewer winking upon
me, I did write so with the name of a whore as that I did fear she might
too probably have been prevailed upon to have been a whore by her carriage
to me, and therefore as such I did resolve never to see her more.  This
pleased my wife, and she gives it W. Hewer to carry to her with a sharp
message from her.  So from that minute my wife begun to be kind to me, and
we to kiss and be friends, and so continued all the evening, and fell to
talk of other matters, with great comfort, and after supper to bed.  This
evening comes Mr. Billup to me, to read over Mr. Wren's alterations of my
draught of a letter for the Duke of York to sign, to the Board; which I
like mighty well, they being not considerable, only in mollifying some
hard terms, which I had thought fit to put in.  From this to other
discourse; and do find that the Duke of York and his master, Mr. Wren, do
look upon this service of mine as a very seasonable service to the Duke of
York, as that which he will have to shew to his enemies in his own
justification, of his care of the King's business; and I am sure I am
heartily glad of it, both for the King's sake and the Duke of York's, and
my own also; for, if I continue, my work, by this means, will be the less,
and my share in the blame also.  He being gone, I to my wife again, and so
spent the evening with very great joy, and the night also with good sleep
and rest, my wife only troubled in her rest, but less than usual, for
which the God of Heaven be praised.  I did this night promise to my wife
never to go to bed without calling upon God upon my knees by prayer, and I
begun this night, and hope I shall never forget to do the like all my
life; for I do find that it is much the best for my soul and body to live
pleasing to God and my poor wife, and will ease me of much care as well as
much expense.

21st.  Up, with great joy to my wife and me, and to the office, where W.
The specific germ of the disease, or the toxin elaborated by this
germ, may be especially depressant to the heart, as in diphtheria, or the
germ may be particularly prone to locate in the heart, as in rheumatism
and pneumonia. But all feverish processes, sooner or later, if sufficiently
prolonged, cause serious cardiac weakness and more or less dilatation.

Just exactly what changes take place in the muscle fibers of the heart in
some of these fevers has not been decided. Whether an albuminous or
parenchymatous degeneration of the muscle fibers or a fatty degeneration
occurs, whether there is a real myocarditis that always precedes the
dilatation, or whether the weakening and loss of muscle fibers or a
diminished power of the muscle fibers occurs without inflammation,
dilatation of the heart is always a factor to be considered, and
frequently occurs in acute disease.

While it is denied that acute dilatation can occur in a sound heart, at the
latter end of a serious illness the heart is never sound, and acute
dilatation can most readily occur, though fortunately it is generally
preventable. When the dilatation occurs suddenly, as indicated by a
fluttering heart, a low tension, rapid pulse, dyspnea and perhaps
cyanosis with venous stasis in the capillaries, death is imminent,
although such patients may be saved by proper aid. Even when the dilatation
is slower, as evidenced by a gradually increasing rapidity of the heart
and a gradually lowering blood pressure, and with more evidences of
exhaustion, death may occur from such heart failure in spite of all
treatment.

Unless a patient dies from accident, as from a hemorrhage, from cerebral
pressure or from some organic lesion in acute disease, the physician
frequently feels that if he can hold the power and force of the circulation
for several hours or days, the patient will recover from the disease,
for in most acute diseases the patient has a good chance of recovery if
his circulation will only hold out until the crisis has occurred or until
the disease is ready to end by lysis. Therefore anything during the
disease that tends to sustain, nourish, quiet and guard the heart means so
much more chance of recovery, whatever else may or may not be done for
the disease itself.

The best treatment of dilatation of the heart in acute disease is its
prevention, and to prevent it means to recognize the condition which can
cause it. These are
1. Prolonged high temperature. A short-lived temperature, even if high,
is not serious. Prolonged temperature of even 103 F. or more is serious,
and even that of 101 is serious if too long continued.

2. Exertion and excitement. Every possible means should be inaugurated to
prevent muscular exertion and strain of the patient while in bed. Proper
help in lifting and turning the patient should be employed, the bed-pan
should be used, proper feeding methods should be adopted, and friends
should be excluded so that the patient may not be excited by conversation.

3. Bad feeding. The diet should of course be sufficient, for the patient
and proper for the disease, but any diet which causes a large amount of
gas in the stomach, or tympanites, is harmful to the patient's circulation,
to say nothing of any other harm, such as indigestion may do. All of the
nutriments needed to keep the body in perfect condition should be given to
a patient who is ill; in some manner he should receive the proper amounts
of iron, salt, calcium, starch, protein, sugar and water.

4. Intestinal sluggishness. This means not only that tympanites should not
be allowed, but also that necessary laxatives should be given. It
would be wrong to prostrate a patient with frequent saline purgatives,
but the bowels must move at least once every other day, generally better
daily; and if the case is one of typhoid fever, they should be
moved by some carefully selected laxative, and after the bowels have
sufficiently moved, the diarrhea should be stopped by 1/10 grain of
morphin, and the next day the bowels properly moved again.

5. Depressant drugs. In this age of cardiac failure, heart depressants of
all types, and especially the synthetic products, should be given
only with careful judgment, and, never frequently repeated or long
continued.

6.

Pain. This is one of the most serious depressants a heart has to combat;
acute pain must not be allowed, and prolonged subacute pain must be stopped.
Even peripheral troublesome irritations must be removed, as tending to
wear out a heart which has all of the trouble it can endure.

7. Insomnia. Nothing rests a heart or recuperates a heart more than sleep.
Insomnia and acute disease make a combination which will wear a heart
out more quickly than any other combination. Sleep, then, must be produced
in the best, easiest and safest manner possible.

8.

A too speedy return to activity. The convalescence must be prolonged until
the heart is able to sustain the work required of it.

The treatment of gradual dilatation in acute disease has been sufficiently
discussed under the subject of acute myocarditis. The treatment of acute
dilatation is practically the same as the treatment of shock plus whatever
treatment must coincidently be given to a patient for the disease with
which he is suffering. The treatment of shock will be discussed under
a separate heading.

THE HEART IN PNEUMONIA
As pneumonia heads the list of the causes of death in this country, and
as the heart fails so quickly, sometimes almost in the beginning in
pneumonia, a special discussion of the management of the heart in this
disease is justifiable.

Acute lobar pneumonia may kill a patient in twenty-four or forty- eight
hours; lie may live for a week and die of heart failure or toxemia, or he
may live for several weeks and die of cardiac weakness. If he has double
pneumonia be may die almost of suffocation. It is today just as frequent
to see a slowly developing and slowly resolving pneumonia as to see one of
the sthenic type that attacks one lobe with a rush, has a crisis in a
seven, eight or nine days, and then a rapid resolution. In fact the
asthenic type, in which different parts of the lung are involved but not
necessarily confined to or even equivalent to one lobe, is perhaps the
most frequent form of pneumonia.

The serious acute congestion of the lung in sthenic pneumonia in a
full-blooded, sturdy person with high tension pulse may be relieved by
cardiac sedatives, vasodilators, brisk purging, or by the relaxing effect
of antipyretics. Venesection is often the best treatment.

When the sputum almost from the first is tinged with venous blood, or even
when the sputum is very bloody, of the prune-juice variety, the heart
is in serious trouble, and the right ventricle has generally become weak
and possibly dilated. The heart may have been diseased and therefore
is unable to overcome the pressure in the lungs during the congestion
and consolidation.

There is a great difference in the belief of clinicians as to the
best treatment for this condition. It would seem to be a positive indication
for digitalis, and good-sized doses of digitalis given correctly,
provided always that the preparation of the drug used is active, are good
and, many times, efficient treatment. Small doses of strychnin may be of
advantage, and camphor may be of value. In the condition described, however,
reliance should be placed on digitalis. Later in the disease when
the heart begins to fail, perhaps the cause is a myocarditis. In this
condition digitalis would not work so well and might do harm. It is quite
possible that the difference between digitalis success and digitalis
nonsuccess or harm may be as to whether or not a myocarditis is present.

If the expectoration is not of the prune-juice variety and is not more
than normally bloody, or in other words, typically pneumonic, and the
heart begins to fail, especially if there is no great amount of consolidation,
the left ventricle is in trouble as much as the right, if not more.

In this case all of the means described above for the prevention of any
dilatation of the heart will be means of preventing dilatation from the
pneumonia, if possible. The treatment advisable for this gradually failing
heart is camphor; strychnin in not too large doses, at the most 1/10 grain
hypodermically once in six hours; often ergot intramuscularly once in six
hours for two or three doses and then once in twelve hours; plenty of
fresh air, or perhaps the inhalation of oxygen. Oxygen does not cure
pneumonia, but may relieve a dyspnea and aid a heart until other drugs
have time to act.

If there is insomnia, morphin in small doses will not only cause sleep, but
also not hurt the heart. In the morning hours of the day the value of
caffein as a cardiac stimulant and vasocontractor, either in the form of
caffein or as black coffee, should be remembered. Strophanthin may be given
intravenously.

One of the greatest cares in the treatment of heart failure in pneumonia
should be not to give too many drugs or to do too much.

SHOCK
The treatment of shock will probably always be unsatisfactory as the cause
is so varied, and, although circulatory prostration and vasomotor paresis
always constitute the acute condition, the physiologic health of the heart
and blood vessels is so varied. The patient in shock has low temperature,
low blood pressure, and a pulse either rapid or slow, but excessively
feeble; the face is pale, the surface of the body cold, and there is more
or less clammy perspiration; there may be dyspnea and cardiac anxiety, or
the patient may hardly breathe.

An acute cause, as terrible pain or hemorrhage, must of course be
stopped immediately.

There is more or less anemia of the brain, and therefore the legs and perhaps
the lower part of the body should be elevated. It may even be wise to
drive the blood from the legs by Esmarch bandages into the rest of the
circulation. As there is always more or less paresis and dilatation of
the large veins of the splanchnic system, a tight bandage about the abdomen
is of great advantage in raising the blood pressure to the safety mark.

Strophanthin, given intravenously, is valuable as a quick restorative of
the heart. Digitalis is so slow that it is of little value in an emergency.
Camphor hypodermically, and hot liquids (nothing is better than black
coffee) given by the mouth, are valuable remedies. The camphor may be
repeated frequently.
Strychnin, the long-used stimulant, should generally be given, but in not
too large doses and not too frequently repeated; 1/30 grain hypodermically
is generally a large enough dose; this dose may be repeated in three or
four hours, but should ordinarily not be given oftener than once in six
hours. An aseptic preparation of ergot given intramuscularly is most
efficient in raising the blood pressure and aiding the heart. One dose of
brandy or whisky may do no harm. Alcohol, however, should not be pushed.

A most important procedure in all kinds of shock is to surround the patient
with dry heat, hot-water bags, and hot flannels; gentle friction of
the arms and legs, unless the patient is too exhausted, may be of benefit.
A hot-water bag to the heart is always a stimulant. Sometimes friction
over the base of the heart in the region of the auricles is of benefit.

     If the collapse is not acute and there is gradual profound
     prostration, or if the patient is improved but still in a serious
     condition of shock, too energetic measures must not be used;
     neither should too many drugs be administered, or drugs in too
     large doses.
     Absolute quiet and the administration of liquid nourishment in but
     small amounts at a time are essential.
     
     The hypodermic administration of epinephrin solutions, 1:10,000, or
     solutions of pituitary extract, 1:10,000, should be considered;
     they are often valuable.
     
     If the shock occurs in ether or chloroform anesthesia, the vasopressor
     stimulating effect of inhalations of carbon dioxid gas may be
     considered, as advised by Henderson."
     If the shock is due to hemorrhage and the hemorrhage has ceased, a
     transfusion of physiologic saline solution is generally indicated.

Transfusion of blood under the same conditions is still better.
Rarely is transfusion indicated in shock from other causes; it often adds
to the difficulty rather than improves it. Occasionally if shock is
decided to be due to a toxemia, the toxin may be diluted by the withdrawal
of a small amount of blood and the transfusion of an equal amount
of saline solution.

ACUTE DILATATION OF THE STOMACH
This condition is not well understood, nor is its frequence known,
but not a few instances of shock are due to dilatation of this
organ. The shock to the heart may be a reflex one through the
pneumogastric nerves.
It perhaps not infrequently occurs after abdominal operations and
is more or less serious, the symptoms being persistent vomiting,
upper abdominal distention and collapse. The vomiting is of bloody
or coffee-ground material.
Sometimes the ordinary treatment of the collapse and washing out
the stomach save the patient; at other times the patient with this
series of symptoms dies in spite of all treatment.
It has been shown that acute dilatation of the stomach may occur
in pneumonia, and may be one of the causes of cardiac collapse in
pneumonia.
When the condition is diagnosed, the treatment would be that of
shock plus abdominal bandage and washing out the stomach with warm
solutions, if the patient is not too collapsed, or at any rate the
frequent administration of hot water in small quantities.
Sometimes when the stomach is dilated the pylorus becomes insufficient,
and bile regurgitates into the stomach, and is a cause of the
profound nausea and vomiting arid the subsequent collapse. In these
cases
114. Henderson: Am. Jour. Physiol., February and April, 1909. not
infrequently small doses of dilute hydrochloric acid seem to aid
the pylorus to maintain its normal contraction, the regurgitation
of bile does not take place, and the stomach may soon acquire a
more normal muscle tone. Not infrequently when a stomach is in this
kind of trouble and all the foods are rejected, and yet the patient
seriously needs nourishment, a warm, thin cereal, as oatmeal or
gruel or something similar, may be retained. Such patients, as has
been repeatedly stated, need starch as soon as possible, lest an
acidosis develop.
In these vomiting and collapse cases the hypodermic administration
of morphin and atropin will not only stop the vomiting, at least
temporarily, but will also give necessary rest. The dose of morphin
need not be large, and the atropin may prevent nausea from the
drug.

ANESTHESIA IN HEART DISEASE
While no physician likes to give an anesthetic to a patient who has
valvular disease of the heart, and no surgeon cares to operate on
such a patient unless operation is absolutely necessary, still in
valvular disease with good compensation the prognosis of either
ether or chloroform narcosis is good.
When there are evidences of chronic myocarditis or a history of
broken compensation and the borderline of compensation and dilatation
is very narrow, or when there is arteriosclerosis, the danger from
an anesthetic and an operation is much greater; it may be serious,
in fact, and the decision must be made whether or not the operation
is absolutely necessary.So to bed.

30th.  Up betimes, and with W. Hewer, who is my guard, to White Hall, to a
Committee of Tangier, where the business of Mr. Lanyon

     [John Lanyon, agent of the Navy Commissioners at Plymouth.  The
     cause of complaint appears to have been connected with his contract
     for Tangier.  In 1668 a charge was made against Lanyon and Thomas
     Yeabsley that they had defrauded the king in the freighting of the
     ship "Tiger" ("Calendar of State Papers," 1668-69, p. 138).]

took up all the morning; and where, poor man!  he did manage his business
with so much folly, and ill fortune to boot, that the Board, before his
coming in, inclining, of their own accord, to lay his cause aside, and
leave it to the law, but he pressed that we would hear it, and it ended to
the making him appear a very knave, as well as it did to me a fool also,
which I was sorry for.  Thence by water, Mr. Povy, Creed, and I, to
Arundell House, and there I did see them choosing their Council, it being
St. Andrew's-day; and I had his Cross

     [The cross of St. Andrew, like that of St. Patrick, is a saltire.
     The two, combined with the red cross of St. George, form the Union
     flag.]

set on my hat, as the rest had, and cost me 2s., and so leaving them I
away by coach home to dinner, and my wife, after dinner, went the first
time abroad to take the maidenhead of her coach, calling on Roger Pepys,
and visiting Mrs. Creed, and my cozen Turner, while I at home all the
afternoon and evening, very busy and doing much work, to my great content.
Home at night, and there comes Mrs. Turner and Betty to see us, and supped
with us, and I shewed them a cold civility for fear of troubling my wife,
and after supper, they being gone, we to bed.  Thus ended this month, with
very good content, that hath been the most sad to my heart and the most
expenseful to my purse on things of pleasure, having furnished my wife's
closet and the best chamber, and a coach and horses, that ever I yet knew
in the world: and do put me into the greatest condition of outward state
that ever I was in, or hoped ever to be, or desired: and this at a time
when we do daily expect great changes in this Office: and by all reports
we must, all of us, turn out.  But my eyes are come to that condition that
I am not able to work: and therefore that, and my wife's desire, make me
have no manner of trouble in my thoughts about it.  So God do his will in
it!

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Calling me dog and rogue, and that I had a rotten heart
     Have me get to be a Parliament-man the next Parliament
     I have a good mind to have the maidenhead of this girl
     Resolve never to give her trouble of that kind more
     Should alway take somebody with me, or her herself
     There being no curse in the world so great as this


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

   TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                DECEMBER
                                  1668

December 1st.  Up, and to the office, where sat all the morning, and at
noon with my people to dinner, and so to the office, very busy till night,
and then home and made my boy read to me Wilkins's Reall Character, which
do please me mightily, and so after supper to bed with great pleasure and
content with my wife.  This day I hear of poor Mr. Clerke, the solicitor,
being dead, of a cold, after being not above two days ill, which troubles
me mightily, poor man!

2nd.  Up, and at the office all the morning upon some accounts of Sir D.
Gawden, and at noon abroad with W. Hewer, thinking to have found Mr. Wren
at Captain Cox's, to have spoke something to him about doing a favour for
Will's uncle Steventon, but missed him.  And so back home and abroad with
my wife, the first time that ever I rode in my own coach, which do make my
heart rejoice, and praise God, and pray him to bless it to me and continue
it.  So she and I to the King's playhouse, and there sat to avoid seeing
Knepp in a box above where Mrs. Williams happened to be, and there saw
"The Usurper;" a pretty good play, in all but what is designed to resemble
Cromwell and Hugh Peters, which is mighty silly.  The play done, we to
White Hall; where my wife staid while I up to the Duchesse's and Queen's
side, to speak with the Duke of York: and here saw all the ladies, and
heard the silly discourse of the King, with his people about him, telling
a story of my Lord Rochester's having of his clothes stole, while he was
with a wench; and his gold all gone, but his clothes found afterwards
stuffed into a feather bed by the wench that stole them.  I spoke with the
Duke of York, just as he was set down to supper with the King, about our
sending of victuals to Sir Thomas Allen's fleet hence to Cales [Cadiz] to
meet him.  And so back to my wife in my coach, and so with great content
and joy home, where I made my boy to make an end of the Reall Character,
which I begun a great while ago, and do please me infinitely, and indeed
is a most worthy labour, and I think mighty easy, though my eyes make me
unable to attempt any thing in it.  To-day I hear that Mr. Ackworth's
cause went for him at Guildhall, against his accusers, which I am well
enough pleased with.

3rd.  Up betimes, and by water with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there to
Mr. Wren, who gives me but small hopes of the favour I hoped for Mr.
Steventon, Will's uncle, of having leave, being upon the point of death,
to surrender his place, which do trouble me, but I will do what I can. So
back again to the Office, Sir Jer. Smith with me; who is a silly, prating,
talking man; but he tells me what he hears, that Holmes and Spragg now
rule all with the Duke of Buckingham, as to seabusiness, and will be great
men: but he do prophesy what will be the fruit of it; so I do.  So to the
Office, where we sat all the morning; and at noon home to dinner, and then
abroad again, with my wife, to the Duke of York's playhouse, and saw "The
Unfortunate Lovers;" a mean play, I think, but some parts very good, and
excellently acted.  We sat under the boxes, and saw the fine ladies; among
others, my Lady Kerneguy, a who is most devilishly painted.  And so home,
it being mighty pleasure to go alone with my poor wife, in a coach of our
own, to a play, and makes us appear mighty great, I think, in the world;
at least, greater than ever I could, or my friends for me, have once
expected; or, I think, than ever any of my family ever yet lived, in my
memory, but my cozen Pepys in Salisbury Court.  So to the office, and
thence home to supper and to bed.

4th.  Up, and with W. Hewer by water to White Hall, and there did wait as
usual upon the Duke of York, where, upon discoursing something touching
the Ticket-Office, which by letter the Board did give the Duke of York
their advice, to be put upon Lord Brouncker, Sir J. Minnes did foolishly
rise up and complain of the Office, and his being made nothing of; and
this before Sir Thomas Littleton, who would be glad of this difference
among us, which did trouble me mightily; and therefore I did forbear to
say what I otherwise would have thought fit for me to say on this
occasion, upon so impertinent a speech as this doting fool made--but, I
say, I let it alone, and contented myself that it went as I advised, as to
the Duke of York's judgment, in the thing disputed.  And so thence away,
my coach meeting me there and carrying me to several places to do little
jobs, which is a mighty convenience, and so home, where by invitation I
find my aunt Wight, who looked over all our house, and is mighty pleased
with it, and indeed it is now mighty handsome, and rich in furniture.  By
and by comes my uncle, and then to dinner, where a venison pasty and very
merry, and after dinner I carried my wife and her to Smithfield, where
they sit in the coach, while Mr. Pickering, who meets me there, and I, and
W. Hewer, and a friend of his, a jockey, did go about to see several pairs
of horses, for my coach; but it was late, and we agreed on none, but left
it to another time: but here I do see instances of a piece of craft and
cunning that I never dreamed of, concerning the buying and choosing of
horses.  So Mr. Pickering, to whom I am much beholden for his kindness
herein, and I parted; and I with my people home, where I left them, and I
to the office, to meet about some business of Sir W. Warren's accounts,
where I vexed to see how ill all the Comptroller's business is likely to
go on, so long as ever Sir J. Minnes lives; and so troubled I was, that I
thought it a good occasion for me to give my thoughts of it in writing,
and therefore wrote a letter at the Board, by the help of a tube, to Lord
Brouncker, and did give it him, which I kept a copy of, and it may be of
use to me hereafter to shew, in this matter.  This being done, I home to
my aunt, who supped with us, and my uncle also: and a good-humoured woman
she is, so that I think we shall keep her acquaintance; but mighty proud
she is of her wedding-ring, being lately set with diamonds; cost her about
L12: and I did commend it mightily to her, but do not think it very
suitable for one of our quality.  After supper they home, and we to bed.

5th.  Up, after a little talk with my wife, which troubled me, she being
ever since our late difference mighty watchful of sleep and dreams, and
will not be persuaded but I do dream of Deb., and do tell me that I speak
in my dreams and that this night I did cry, Huzzy, and it must be she, and
now and then I start otherwise than I used to do, she says, which I know
not, for I do not know that I dream of her more than usual, though I
cannot deny that my thoughts waking do run now and then against my will
and judgment upon her, for that only is wanting to undo me, being now in
every other thing as to my mind most happy, and may still be so but for my
own fault, if I be catched loving any body but my wife again.  So up and
to the office, and at noon to dinner, and thence to office, where late,
mighty busy, and despatching much business, settling papers in my own
office, and so home to supper, and to bed.  No news stirring, but that my
Lord of Ormond is likely to go to Ireland again, which do shew that the
Duke of Buckingham do not rule all so absolutely; and that, however, we
shall speedily have more changes in the Navy: and it is certain that the
Nonconformists do now preach openly in houses, in many places, and among
others the house that was heretofore Sir G. Carteret's, in Leadenhall
Streete, and have ready access to the King.  And now the great dispute is,
whether this Parliament or another; and my great design, if I continue in
the Navy, is to get myself to be a Parliament-man.

6th (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife to church; which pleases me
mightily, I being full of fear that she would never go to church again,
after she had declared to me that she was a Roman Catholique.  But though
I do verily think she fears God, and is truly and sincerely righteous, yet
I do see she is not so strictly so a Catholique as not to go to church
with me, which pleases me mightily.  Here Mills made a lazy sermon, upon
Moses's meeknesse, and so home, and my wife and I alone to dinner, and
then she to read a little book concerning speech in general, a translation
late out of French; a most excellent piece as ever I read, proving a soul
in man, and all the ways and secrets by which nature teaches speech in
man, which do please me most infinitely to read.  By and by my wife to
church, and I to my Office to complete my Journall for the last three
days, and so home to my chamber to settle some papers, and so to spend the
evening with my wife and W. Hewer talking over the business of the Office,
and particularly my own Office, how I will make it, and it will become, in
a little time, an Office of ease, and not slavery, as it hath for so many
years been.  So to supper, and to bed.

7th.  Up by candlelight, the first time I have done so this winter, but I
had lost my labour so often to visit Sir W. Coventry, and not visited him
so long, that I was resolved to get time enough, and so up, and with W.
Hewer, it being the first frosty day we have had this winter, did walk it
very well to W. Coventry's, and there alone with him an hour talking of
the Navy, which he pities, but says he hath no more mind to be found
meddling with the Navy, lest it should do it hurt, as well as him, to be
found to meddle with it.  So to talk of general things: and telling him
that, with all these doings, he, I thanked God, stood yet; he told me,
Yes, but that he thought his continuing in, did arise from his enemies my
Lord of Buckingham and Arlington's seeing that he cared so little if he
was out; and he do protest to me that he is as weary of the Treasury, as
ever he was of the Navy.  He tells me that he do believe that their heat
is over almost, as to the Navy, there being now none left of the old stock
but my Lord Brouncker, J. Minnes, who is ready to leave the world, and
myself.  But he tells me that he do foresee very great wants and great
disorders by reason thereof; insomuch, as he is represented to the King by
his enemies as a melancholy man, and one that is still prophesying ill
events, so as the King called him Visionaire, which being told him, he
said he answered the party, that, whatever he foresaw, he was not afeard
as to himself of any thing, nor particularly of my Lord Arlington, so much
as the Duke of Buckingham hath been, nor of the Duke of Buckingham, so
much as my Lord Arlington at this time is.  But he tells me that he hath
been always looked upon as a melancholy man; whereas, others that would
please the King do make him believe that all is safe: and so he hath heard
my Lord Chancellor openly say to the King, that he was now a glorious
prince, and in a glorious condition, because of some one accident that
hath happened, or some one rub that hath been removed; "when," says W.
Coventry, "they reckoned their one good meal, without considering that
there was nothing left in the cup board for to-morrow."  After this and
other discourse of this kind, I away, and walked to my Lord Sandwich's,
and walked with him to White Hall, and took a quarter of an hour's walk in
the garden with him, which I had not done for so much time with him since
his coming into England; and talking of his own condition, and
particularly of the world's talk of his going to Tangier.  I find, if his
conditions can be made profitable and safe as to money, he would go, but
not else; but, however, will seem not averse to it, because of
facilitating his other accounts now depending, which he finds hard to get
through, but yet hath some hopes, the King, he says, speaking very kindly
to him.  Thence to a Committee of Tangier, and so with W. Hewer to
Westminster to Sir R. Longs office, and so to the Temple, but did nothing,
the Auditor not being within, and so home to dinner, and after dinner out
again with my wife to the Temple, and up and down to do a little business,
and back again, and so to my office, and did a little business, and so
home, and W. Hewer with me, to read and talk, and so to supper, and then
to bed in mighty good humour. This afternoon, passing through Queen's
Street, I saw pass by our coach on foot Deb., which, God forgive me, did
put me into some new thoughts of her, and for her, but durst not shew
them, and I think my wife did not see her, but I did get my thoughts free
of her soon as I could.

8th.  Up, and Sir H. Cholmly betimes with me, about some accounts and
moneys due to him: and he gone, I to the Office, where sat all the
morning; and here, among other things, breaks out the storm W. Hewer and I
have long expected from the Surveyor,--[Colonel Middleton.]--about W.
Hewer's conspiring to get a contract, to the burdening of the stores with
kerseys and cottons, of which he hath often complained, and lately more
than ever; and now he did it by a most scandalous letter to the Board,
reflecting on my Office: and, by discourse, it fell to such high words
between him and me, as can hardly ever be forgot; I declaring I would
believe W. Hewer as soon as him, and laying the fault, if there be any,
upon himself; he, on the other hand, vilifying of my word and W. Hewer's,
calling him knave, and that if he were his clerk, he should lose his ears.
At last, I closed the business for this morning with making the thing
ridiculous, as it is, and he swearing that the King should have right in
it, or he would lose his place.  The Office was cleared of all but
ourselves and W. Hewer; but, however, the world did by the beginning see
what it meant, and it will, I believe, come to high terms between us,
which I am sorry for, to have any blemish laid upon me or mine, at this
time, though never so unduly, for fear of giving occasion to my real
discredit: and therefore I was not only all the rest of the morning vexed,
but so went home to dinner, where my wife tells me of my Lord Orrery's new
play "Tryphon," at the Duke of York's house, which, however, I would see,
and therefore put a bit of meat in our mouths, and went thither; where,
with much ado, at half-past one, we got into a blind hole in the 18d.
place, above stairs, where we could not hear well, but the house infinite
full, but the prologue most silly, and the play, though admirable, yet no
pleasure almost in it, because just the very same design, and words, and
sense, and plot, as every one of his plays have, any one of which alone
would be held admirable, whereas so many of the same design and fancy do
but dull one another; and this, I perceive, is the sense of every body
else, as well as myself, who therefore showed but little pleasure in it.
So home, mighty hot, and my mind mightily out of order, so as I could not
eat any supper, or sleep almost all night, though I spent till twelve at
night with W. Hewer to consider of our business: and we find it not only
most free from any blame of our side, but so horrid scandalous on the
other, to make so groundless a complaint, and one so shameful to him, that
it could not but let me see that there is no need of my being troubled;
but such is the weakness of my nature, that I could not help it, which
vexes me, showing me how unable I am to live with difficulties.

9th.  Up, and to the Office, but did little there, my mind being still
uneasy, though more and more satisfied that there is no occasion for it;
but abroad with my wife to the Temple, where I met with Auditor Wood's
clerk, and did some business with him, and so to see Mr. Spong, and found
him out by Southampton Market, and there carried my wife, and up to his
chamber, a bye place, but with a good prospect of the fields; and there I
had most infinite pleasure, not only with his ingenuity in general, but in
particular with his shewing me the use of the Parallelogram, by which he
drew in a quarter of an hour before me, in little, from a great, a most
neat map of England--that is, all the outlines, which gives me infinite
pleasure, and foresight of pleasure, I shall have with it; and therefore
desire to have that which I have bespoke, made.  Many other pretty things
he showed us, and did give me a glass bubble, to try the strength of
liquors with.

     [This seems to refer to the first form of the Hon. Robert Boyle's
     hydrometer, which he described in a paper in the "Philosophical
     Transactions" for June, 1675, under the title of a "New Essay
     instrument."  Of course, the blood pressure will drop suddenly from
     a hemorrhage, but Piersol [Footnote: Piersol: Pennsylvania Med.
     Jour., May, 1914, p. 625] finds that with perforation the peritoneal
     irritation may cause a rise of blood pressure, and he thinks that
     this sign may precede for several hours more positive signs of
     the accident.
     

As in other infections, the blood pressure will fall in scarlet fever;
but if it suddenly rises, a kidney complication is to be looked for. The
blood pressure always falls in diphtheria, and always falls in acute
rheumatism; consequently, strenuous sweating measures in the treatment
of rheumatism should not be used as soon as the blood pressure has
become low.

Failing circulation in pneumonia, if accompanied by low blood pressure,
requires different treatment from the failure of circulation in these
cases when the blood pressure is high. Hence the relationship of the
systolic to the diastolic pressure in pneumonia is of very great importance
in deciding on the proper treatment. In one instance the blood pressure
must be lowered; in the other, the heart must be stimulated.

While tobacco, in ordinary conditions, raises the blood pressure, after
the heart has been seriously injured by the nicotin, the blood pressure
is likely to be found lower, and such patients are quickly benefited by
the withdrawal of the tobacco and the administration of digitalis.

Anemia almost invariably causes low blood pressure. Also in a patient who
has hypotension without any distinct evidence of disease, especially if
there has been any possible exposure to tuberculosis, that disease should
be suspected and every test made to eliminate such a cause.

Serious cachexia, such as that caused by carcinoma or other growths, gives
low blood pressure. Diabetes causes low blood pressure, provided there
are no nephritis and no marked suprarenal stimulation.

Excessive use of alcohol, while tending to promote hypertension by the
disturbances that it causes, may give, by causing a weak heart muscle,
a permanent low blood pressure. A single large dose of alcohol always lowers
the blood pressure.

Arteriosclerosis frequently reaches a stage when the blood pressure is low,
and with atheroma of the arteries of the arms a true blood pressure is
difficult to obtain. Addison's disease, or any other organic lesion of the
suprarenals, will lower the pressure, while stimulation of the suprarenals
increases the pressure. Any great drain on the system, whether from
diabetes without nephritis, or from profuse diarrhea of any type, will cause
hypotension.
Occasionally a girl with chlorosis who is not menstruating may have an
increased blood pressure. Many of the hemorrhagic or purpuric conditions
will show a hypotension.

Meningitis in various forms may show a hypertension from cerebral and nervous
irritation. Neurasthenic patients quite generally have hypotension,
although occasionally with suprarenal disturbance they may have an increased
tension.

In the hypotension of surgical shock and in shock during anesthesia,
Henderson's findings [Footnote: Henderson: Am. Jour. Physiol., 1910, xxvii,
158.] that hyperoxygenation and insufficient carbon dioxid may be partially
responsible for the condition should be remembered, and it has long been
known that carbon dioxid congestion, as caused by laughing gas anesthesia,
for instance, increases the blood pressure.

A systolic pressure of 110 mm. or lower in an adult should be considered
hypotension, anything below 105 mm. calls for treatment, and a
systolic pressure of 100 or lower in an adult calls for rest from
all active duties.

These patients are weary, they have mental and physical tire, may get
short breathed, may have palpitation of the heart, and often have headaches
and dizziness from imperfect circulation in the head.
There may be edemas of the legs and ankles toward night. If such patients
have the systolic blood pressure raised even a small amount, or if the
diastolic pressure, which is very low, is raised even a small
amount, they immediately feel better.

If the kidneys are normal, they should have meat as part of their diet.
If they are not nervous and irritable, coffee and tea should be allowed,
except at the evening meal. While sleep may tend to lower pressure
somewhat, these patients' hearts require a long bed rest; in other words,
they should go to bed at an early hour. They should rise early, however,
in the morning, and, as recommended by Goodman, [Footnote: Goodman: Am.
Jour. Med. Sc., April, 1914, p.
503.] they should perform mild calisthenic exercises before
dressing.

The increased muscle tone thus caused raises the blood pressure somewhat,
and the great depression before breakfast is not experienced. These
patients rely oil their morning coffee for bracing. If they have much
indigestion at night which keeps them awake so that they do not get
good comfortable rest, their largest meals should be the morning and noon
meals, and the evening meal should be very light.

Pendent abdomens or ptosed abdominal organs should be held up by proper
abdominal bandages or corsets.

If the bowels are constipated, only the vegetable laxatives should be
used, if it drug is needed at all. Salines should not be allowed, or other
cathartics which cause profuse watery discharges. If a brisk purge is
required, castor oil is the best.

Plenty of fresh air, and mild exercises in the open air all tend to increase
the pressure. Graded walking, climbing, or other more interesting exercises
are advisable, as all tending to raise the pressure, provided that at
no time are they carried to the point of exhaustion.

Forced feeding may be useful. Cool sponging in the morning, if there is
proper reaction, is often of benefit. Iron may be indicated; bitter tonics
may be indicated.

Digitalis and strychnin are often of advantage. Caffein may be used as a
drug as well as given in coffee and tea. Atropin may be of value in
some forms of hypotension.

At times with a low systolic pressure, but a relatively high diastolic
pressure, nitroglycerin is valuable.

More or less actite hypotension may occur in hot weather or with overheating,
often termed heat exhaustion. Such patients should, if possible, go to a
cooler region, whether to the seashore or to the mountains is unimportant.
The treatment of dangerous sudden low blood pressure, as shock, will be
discussed elsewhere.

PERICARDITIS
ACUTE PERICARDITIS

As this inflammation is generally secondary to some other condition, its
treatment cannot be positively outlined. Furthermore, it is often a
terminal condition, and in such instances the results of treatment are of
necessity nil. The most frequent terminal cause is nephritis; other terminal
causes are pulmonary tuberculosis, adjacent abscesses, cancer or other
growth.

The most frequent infectious cause is rheumatism; other infectious causes
are cerebrospinal fever, typhoid fever, acute miliary tuberculosis, pneumonia
and Sepsis. Accidental causes are traumatism and an adjacent inflammation
of the pleura.

The result of an inflammation of the pericardium may be a fibrous
exudate, or an exudate which is both serous and fibrous, or one in which
pus is present in considerable amount.

The onset of pericarditis may be more or less acute, or it may commence
insidiously. For this reason, during severe illness, and especially in
those diseases which are known to have pericarditis often as a sequence,
frequent examination of the heart should be made as a routine
procedure.

SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS
If there is pain or much aching in the cardiac region, it tends to
disappear with the exudate, if such is to occur, in the same way
as does the pain of pleurisy.

If there is much exudate, the pressure on the heart of course increases,
the cardiac dulness enlarges, dyspnea occurs and even perhaps later cyanosis.
As the exudate accumulates, the patient must lie higher and higher
in order that the fluid may gravitate to the lowest part of the sac and
give the heart the greatest ability to work. Reflex pain may occur from
disturbances of the pneumogastric nerve, or from the weight and pressure
of the enlarged and heavy pericardium. Reflex vomiting may be a troublesome
and distressing symptom.

Acute pericarditis occurring in rheumatism, in acute infections, and from
simple injuries tends to recovery. In dry pericarditis with serious
adhesions, or if adhesions occur as a sequence of acute pericarditis,
the future prognosis is bad, as myocarditis may develop and sudden death
or acute dilatation may occur.

As stated above, if pericarditis develops during the progress of chronic
disease, such as interstitial nephritis, or during sepsis, or from
abscesses or growths in the region of the pericardium, the prognosis is
bad.

TREATMENT OF ACUTE PERICARDITIS
In acute pericarditis, absolute mental as well as physical rest is essential.
Even if the patient does not appear to be seriously ill and has not much
fever, he should not be allowed to have visitors, to discuss business
matters, or to carry on any conversation, however little exciting. Anything
which increases the heart beat increases the irritation of the inflamed
surfaces of the pericardium. He should not be allowed to sit up, either
to eat or to attend to the calls of Nature. These rules are imperative,
and when they are followed the pain is less, the heart beats less rapidly,
is less hampered by pressure from whatever exudate may be present,
and the adhesions which are liable to form will be less in amount
and less serious for the future work of the heart.

The treatment, of course, depends largely on the cause of the pericarditis,
as, if the cause is one of those just enumerated in which the prognosis
is dire, any treatment directed toward the pericardial inflammation is
almost useless. The periearditis under these conditions will be more or
less benefited, if at all affected, by the treatment directed toward
the cause.

     
     The indications for treatment in all other instances are:
     

1. To attempt to abort the inflammation.

2. To stop the pain.

3. To limit, if possible, the amount of exudate, and to diminish the
exudate already present.

4. To diminish the rapidity of the heart and to strengthen it.

1. Abortive Treatment.--For many years bloodletting was considered of the
greatest importance in the early treatment of this disease; but
owing to the fact that, except from traumatism, pericarditis rarely
occurs except as a sequela of acute disease after the patient has
been sick along time, or as a terminal condition in a patient who
has long been chronically diseased and therefore has already lost
more or less strength, venesection has been nearly abandoned.

Leeches may be used over the region of the pericardium, and cups are
sometimes used. Dry cupping is more frequently used. These measures
sometimes seem to reduce the inflammation, and certainly often relieve
pain, but the most valuable local treatment is cold, which may be applied
either in the form of an ice bag or by a small coil through which ice water
is caused to flow by siphonage. Cold may be applied more or less continuously,
depending on the sensations of the patient. The bag or ice cap must
not be overfilled and must not be heavy, as the patient often cannot stand
pressure over the pericardium. Sometimes the relief from pain and the
diminution of the number of the heart beats is marked, and for this
reason alone the cardiac inflammation may be inhibited. If cold
applications are not tolerated by the patient (and they often are not
in children) warm applications may be used, such as an electric pad or
cloths wrung out of hot water and covered with oiled silk, and
the pain will often be relieved thus. While hot applications would not
tend to abort the inflammation, they probably do not tend to promote it.

A diminished diet, of small amount at a time, and such purging as the
patient's strength will allow are essential in attempting to hasten
recovery.

Just what can be done locally or generally to combat the inflammation actively
must depend on the cause. When the inflammation occurs as a complication
of acute rheumatism, it has been suggested that salicylates, which arc not
inhibiting rheumatism and may be depressant to the heart, should be stopped
if they are being administered; but if the salicylates are apparently
improving the inflammation in the joints, pericarditis would not
contraindicate their continued use. Except in large doses, salicylates
probably do not depress the heart. In pericarditis it is perhaps well always
to administer an alkali in some form unless otherwise contraindicated,
whether or not the cause is rheumatism. A diminished alkalinity of the
blood would always increase the likelihood of an augmented amount
of pericardial or endocardial inflammation.

The blood must be kept strongly alkaline. It is possible that one of the
reasons why pericarditis or endocarditis occurs so frequently in serious
prolonged fevers is that the patient has not eaten enough cereals or other
carbohydrates, and the system has become more or less endangered by
acidosis.

Carbohydrate starvation is inexcusable with our present understanding of
the danger from acideinia, and even from a diminished amount of alkalies
in the blood.

The cause of pericarditis being so varied, any anti-toxin treatment or
any vaccine treatment could be indicated only if the cause of the
inflammation rendered the serum or vaccine advisable.

2. Stopping the Pain.--Nowhere else in the body should pain be so speedily
combated as when it occurs in the region of the heart.
Morphin, with or without atropin, as deemed best, should be administered
hypodermically in the amount and with the frequency necessary to stop the
pain and quiet the restlessness. As stated above, the frequent
need for morphin may be prevented by use of the ice bag. Morphin
might even be considered an abortive treatment, as nothing tends
so much to inhibit this inflammation as the quietude of the heart
caused by the absence of pain, the production of sleep and the
prevention of restlessness, muscle twitching and muscle movements.
The more quiet the patient is, the more quiet is the heart.
If for any reason morphin is contraindicated, and if pain is not a
symptom, the patient's nerves may be quieted and rest may be given
by sodium bromid, or by veronal-sodium, the dose of the former being
2 gm. (30 grains) two or three times in twenty-four hours, according
to its action and the necessity for it, and the dose of the latter
0.2 gm. (3 grains) once in six hours, if deemed necessary.
Especially if there are cerebral symptoms, as typically presented
in cerebrospinal meningitis, and especially if the arterial tension
is low, the subcutaneous administration of an aseptic ergot will
quiet the central nervous system, increase the blood pressure, quiet
the heart, and prolong the action of a single dose of morphin. It
is the best plan to administer ergot deep into the muscles, with
the deltoid as the place of choice. If the skin is properly cleansed,
the syringe clean and the preparation of the drug aseptic, no
inflammation or abscess will ever occur. If there is any painful
swelling, a wet alcohol dressing to the part will soon relieve
it.
The frequence with which ergot should be so administered depends
on the results and the indications. Once in twelve hours for several
doses is generally the best method for its use.
3. The Exudate.--When a fluid exudate into the pericardium has
occurred from inflammation that is, when it is not an exudate from
disturbed kidneys or circulation--it will continue to increase to
some extent in spite of any treatment. Just how much this exudate
may be prevented by the use of small blisters over or around the
heart, and just how much watery stools and diuresis may prevent the
advance of the exudate is difficult to determine. Small blisters,
properly applied, have many times seemed to be the determining
factor in stopping the increase in the fluid, or to have been the
starting cause of the resorption of the exudate.
The amount of purging that should be caused by saline cathartics
such as sodium sulphate (Glauber salt), potassium and sodium tartrate
(Rochelle salt), or the official compound jalap powder cannot be
declared dogmatically. Saline purging should be governed by the
character of the circulation. If the heart is strong, the pulse not
weak, and the blood pressure good, nothing is more valuable in this
condition. Portal depletion is of great advantage, especially if
the amount of liquid ingested is kept as low as possible, so that
the blood vessels may become thirsty and thus tend to absorb an
exudate wherever they find it. Much harm has been done, however,
and death has been caused by saline purgatives in endeavoring to
relieve edemas from a failing heart or to prevent a uremia from
kidney inflammation. The depression following such purging is often
serious. If the circulation is weak, dependence should be placed
on purgation by some of the simple vegetable cathartics or a small
dose of calomel. While it is advisable to give a saline in concentrated
solution, it should not be so strong as to cause vomiting.Gawden do well in
it, and what I would advise him to, because I love him.  So home to
dinner, and then with my wife alone abroad, with our new horses, the
beautifullest almost that ever I saw, and the first time they ever carried
her, and me but once; but we are mighty proud of them.  To her tailor's,
and so to the 'Change, and laid out three or four pounds in lace, for her
and me; and so home, and there I up to my Lord Brouncker, at his lodgings,
and sat with him an hour, on purpose to talk over the wretched state of
this Office at present, according to the present hands it is made up of;
wherein he do fully concur with me, and that it is our part not only to
prepare for defending it and ourselves, against the consequences of it,
but to take the best ways we can, to make it known to the Duke of York;
for, till Sir J. Minnes be removed, and a sufficient man brought into W.
Pen's place, when he is gone, it is impossible for this Office ever to
support itself. So home, and to supper and to bed.

24th.  A cold day.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning alone at
the Office, nobody meeting, being the eve of Christmas.  At noon home to
dinner, and then to the Office busy, all the afternoon, and at night home
to supper, and it being now very cold, and in hopes of a frost, I begin
this night to put on a waistcoat, it being the first winter in my whole
memory that ever I staid till this day before I did so.  So to bed in
mighty good humour with my wife, but sad, in one thing, and that is for my
poor eyes.

25th (Christmas-day).  Up, and continued on my waistcoat, the first day
this winter, and I to church, where Alderman Backewell, coming in late, I
beckoned to his lady to come up to us, who did, with another lady; and
after sermon, I led her down through the church to her husband and coach,
a noble, fine woman, and a good one, and one my wife shall be acquainted
with.  So home, and to dinner alone with my wife, who, poor wretch!  
Schneider and Hedblom [Footnote: Schneider and Hedblom: Am. Jour.,
Physiol., November, 1908.] showed that the fall in systolic pressure at
altitudes is greater and more certain than the fall in diastolic,
some individuals even having a rise in diastolic pressure.

     This rise in diastolic pressure is probably caused by
     dyspnea.
     
     Schrumpf, [Footnote: Schrumpf: Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med.,
     1914, cxiii, 466] on the other hand, finds that normal blood
pressure is not much affected by an ascent of about 6,500 feet,
while patients with arteriosclerosis and hypertension, without
kidney disease, have a fall in pressure.

A patient with coronary disease should certainly not go to any great
altitude, while patients with compensated valvular lesions, he found,
were not injured by ordinary heights. He found that altitude seemed to
decrease high systolic and diastolic pressures, while it even
elevated those which were below normal, and caused these patients
to feel better.

Any person who has a circulatory disturbance, and who must or does go to a
higher altitude, should rest for a series of days, until his blood pressure
and blood have reached an equilibrium.

Smith [Footnote: Smith, F. C.: The Effect of Altitude on Blood Pressure, THE
JOURNAL A. M. A., May 29, 1915, p. 1812.] made a series of observations
on blood pressures at Fort Stanton which has an altitude of 6,230 feet.
Downing,
and walked with him an hour, talking of business, and how the late war was
managed, there being nobody to take care of it, and telling how, when he
was in Holland, what he offered the King to do, if he might have power,
and they would give him power, and then, upon the least word, perhaps of a
woman, to the King, he was contradicted again, and particularly to the
loss of all that we lost in Guinny.  He told me that he had so good spies,
that he hath had the keys taken out of De Witt's

     [The celebrated John de Witt, Grand Pensionary of Holland, who,
     a few years afterwards, was massacred, with his brother Cornelius,
     by the Dutch mob, enraged at their opposition to the elevation of
     William of Orange to the Stadtholdership, when the States were
     overrun by the French army, and the Dutch fleets beaten at sea by
     the English.  The murder of the De Witts forms one of the main
     incidents of Alexandre Dumas's "Black Tulip."]

pocket when he was a-bed, and his closet opened, and papers brought to
him, and left in his hands for an hour, and carried back and laid in the
place again, and keys put into his pocket again.  He says that he hath
always had their most private debates, that have been but between two or
three of the chief of them, brought to him in an hour after, and an hour
after that, hath sent word thereof to the King, but nobody here regarded
them.  But he tells me the sad news, that he is out of all expectations
that ever the debts of the Navy will be paid, if the Parliament do not
enable the King to do it by money; all they can hope for to do out of the
King's revenue being but to keep our wheels a-going on present services,
and, if they can, to cut off the growing interest: which is a sad story,
and grieves me to the heart.  So home, my coach coming for me, and there
find Balty and Mr. How, who dined with me; and there my wife and I fell
out a little about the foulness of the linen of the table, but were
friends presently, but she cried, poor heart!  which I was troubled for,
though I did not give her one hard word.  Dinner done, she to church, and
W. How and I all the afternoon talking together about my Lord Sandwich's
suffering his business of the prizes to be managed by Sir R. Cuttance, who
is so deep in the business, more than my Lord knows of, and such a
loggerhead, and under such prejudice, that he will, we doubt, do my Lord
much wrong.  In the evening, he gone, my wife to read to me and talk, and
spent the evening with much pleasure, and so to supper and to bed.

28th.  Up, called up by drums and trumpets; these things and boxes [??]
having cost me much money this Christmas already, and will do more.  My
wife down by water to see her mother, and I with W. Hewer all day together
in my closet making some advance in the settling of my accounts, which
have been so long unevened that it troubles me how to set them right,
having not the use of my eyes to help me.  My wife at night home, and
tells me how much her mother prays for me and is troubled for my eyes; and
I am glad to have friendship with them, and believe they are truly glad to
see their daughter come to live so well as she do.  So spent the night in
talking, and so to supper and to bed.

29th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning, and at noon to dinner, and
there, by a pleasant mistake, find my uncle and aunt Wight, and three more
of their company, come to dine with me to-day, thinking that they had been
invited, which they were not; but yet we did give them a pretty good
dinner, and mighty merry at the mistake.  They sat most of the afternoon
with us, and then parted, and my wife and I out, thinking to have gone to
a play, but it was too far begun, and so to the 'Change, and there she and
I bought several things, and so home, with much pleasure talking, and then
to reading, and so to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up, and vexed a little to be forced to pay 40s. for a glass of my
coach, which was broke the other day, nobody knows how, within the door,
while it was down; but I do doubt that I did break it myself with my
knees.  After dinner, my wife and I to the Duke's playhouse, and there did
see King Harry the Eighth; and was mightily pleased, better than I ever
expected, with the history and shows of it.  We happened to sit by Mr.
Andrews, our neighbour, and his wife, who talked so fondly to his little
boy.  Thence my wife and I to the 'Change; but, in going, our neere horse
did fling himself, kicking of the coachbox over the pole; and a great deal
of trouble it was to get him right again, and we forced to 'light, and in
great fear of spoiling the horse, but there was no hurt. So to the
'Change, and then home, and there spent the evening talking, and so to
supper and to bed.

31st.  Up, and at the Office all the morning.  At noon Capt. Ferrers and
Mr. Sheres

     [Henry Sheres accompanied Lord Sandwich in his embassy to Spain, and
     returned to England in September, 1667, bearing letters from the
     ambassador (see September 8th, 22nd, 27th).  He was an officer in
     the Ordnance, and served under Lord Dartmouth at the demolition of
     the Mole at Tangier in 1683.  He was knighted about 1684.  He
     translated Polybius (2 vols. 8vo., 1693), and also some of the
     "Dialogues" of Lucian, included in the translation published in 1711
     (3 vols. 8vo.).  Pepys bequeathed him a ring, and he died about
     1713.]

come to me to dinner, who did, and pretty pleased with their talk of
Spayne; but my wife did not come down, I suppose because she would not,
Captain Ferrers being there, to oblige me by it.  They gone, after dinner,
I to the office, and then in the evening home, being the last day of the
year, to endeavour to pay all bills and servants' wages, &c., which I did
almost to L5 that I know that I owe in the world, but to the publique; and
so with great pleasure to supper and to bed, and, blessed be God! the year
ends, after some late very great sorrow with my wife by my folly, yet
ends, I say, with great mutual peace and content, and likely to last so by
my care, who am resolved to enjoy the sweet of it, which I now possess, by
never giving her like cause of trouble.  My greatest trouble is now from
the backwardness of my accounts, which I have not seen the bottom of now
near these two years, so that I know not in what condition I am in the
world, but by the grace of God, as far as my eyes will give me leave, I
will do it.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Craft and cunning concerning the buying and choosing of horses
     Did see the knaveries and tricks of jockeys
     Hath not a liberty of begging till he hath served three years
     He told me that he had so good spies
     Laissez nous affaire--Colbert
     Nonconformists do now preach openly in houses
     Offered to shew my wife further satisfaction if she desired
     Seeing that he cared so little if he was out
     Tell me that I speak in my dreams

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS, DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS, 1668 N.S., COMPLETE:

     A book the Bishops will not let be printed again
     Act against Nonconformists and Papists
     All things to be managed with faction
     And will not kiss a woman since his wife's death
     And the woman so silly, as to let her go that took it
     And they did lay pigeons to his feet
     As all other women, cry, and yet talk of other things
     At work, till I was almost blind, which makes my heart sad
     Beating of a poor little dog to death, letting it lie
     Being very poor and mean as to the bearing with trouble
     Being the people that, at last, will be found the wisest
     Best fence against the Parliament's present fury is delay
     Bite at the stone, and not at the hand that flings it
     Bookseller's, and there looked for Montaigne's Essays
     Bought Montaigne's Essays, in English
     Bristol milk (the sherry) in the vaults
     Burned it, that it might not be among my books to my shame
     Business of abusing the Puritans begins to grow stale
     But get no ground there yet
     But this the world believes, and so let them
     But what they did, I did not enquire
     But if she will ruin herself, I cannot help it
     Calling me dog and rogue, and that I had a rotten heart
     Cannot get suitably, without breach of his honour
     Cannot be clean to go so many bodies together in the same water
     Carry them to a box, which did cost me 20s., besides oranges
     Caustic attack on Sir Robert Howard
     City to be burned, and the Papists to cut our throats
     City pay him great respect, and he the like to the meanest
     Coach to W. Coventry about Mrs. Pett, 1s.
     Come to see them in bed together, on their wedding-night
     Cost me L5, which troubles me, but yet do please me also
     Craft and cunning concerning the buying and choosing of horses
     Declared, if he come, she would not live with me
     Did see the knaveries and tricks of jockeys
     Disorder in the pit by its raining in, from the cupola
     Doe from Cobham, when the season comes, bucks season being past
     Down to the Whey house and drank some and eat some curds
     Eat some butter and radishes
     Endangering the nation, when he knew himself such a coward
     Espinette is the French term for a small harpsichord
     Ever have done his maister better service than to hang for him?
     Family governed so nobly and neatly as do me good to see it
     Fear what would become of me if any real affliction should come
     Fear that the goods and estate would be seized (after suicide)
     Fears some will stand for the tolerating of Papists
     Force a man to swear against himself
     Forced to change gold, 8s. 7d.; servants and poor, 1s. 6d.
     Forgetting many things, which her master beat her for
     Frequent trouble in things we deserve best in
     Glad to be at friendship with me, though we hate one another
     Greater number of Counsellors is, the more confused the issue
     Hath not a liberty of begging till he hath served three years
     Have me get to be a Parliament-man the next Parliament
     He that will not stoop for a pin, will never be worth a pound
     He told me that he had so good spies
     How natural it is for us to slight people out of power
     I know not how in the world to abstain from reading
     I have a good mind to have the maidenhead of this girl
     I could have answered, but forbore
     I away with great content, my mind being troubled before
     I know not whether to be glad or sorry
     In my nature am mighty unready to answer no to anything
     Inventing a better theory of musique
     It may be, be able to pay for it, or have health
     King, "it is then but Mr. Pepys making of another speech to them"
     L'escholle des filles, a lewd book
     Lady Castlemayne do rule all at this time as much as ever
     Laissez nous affaire--Colbert
     Little company there, which made it very unpleasing
     Little pleasure now in a play, the company being but little
     Live of L100 a year with more plenty, and wine and wenches
     Made him admire my drawing a thing presently in shorthand
     Making their own advantages to the disturbance of the peace
     My wife having a mind to see the play "Bartholomew-Fayre"
     My wife hath something in her gizzard, that only waits
     My wife, coming up suddenly, did find me embracing the girl
     My wife's neglect of things, and impertinent humour
     My heart beginning to falsify in this business
     Never saw so many sit four hours together to hear any man
     No pleasure--only the variety of it
     No man was ever known to lose the first time
     Nonconformists do now preach openly in houses
     Not eat a bit of good meat till he has got money to pay the men
     Offered to shew my wife further satisfaction if she desired
     Parliament being vehement against the Nonconformists
     Pictures of some Maids of Honor: good, but not like
     Presbyterian style and the Independent are the best
     Resolve never to give her trouble of that kind more
     Resolved to go through it, and it is too late to help it now
     Ridiculous nonsensical book set out by Will. Pen, for the Quaker
     Rough notes were made to serve for a sort of account book
     Saw two battles of cocks, wherein is no great sport
     Saw "Mackbeth," to our great content
     Seeing that he cared so little if he was out
     She loves to be taken dressing herself, as I always find her
     Should alway take somebody with me, or her herself
     Shows how unfit I am for trouble
     Sir, your faithful and humble servant
     Slabbering themselves, and mirth fit for clownes
     So out, and lost our way, which made me vexed
     So time do alter, and do doubtless the like in myself
     Suffered her humour to spend, till we begun to be very quiet
     Tell me that I speak in my dreams
     The factious part of the Parliament
     The manner of the gaming
     The most ingenious men may sometimes be mistaken
     The devil being too cunning to discourage a gamester
     Their ladies in the box, being grown mighty kind of a sudden
     There being no curse in the world so great as this
     There setting a poor man to keep my place
     This kind of prophane, mad entertainment they give themselves
     Though I know it will set the Office and me by the ears for ever
     To be enjoyed while we are young and capable of these joys
     Tried the effect of my silence and not provoking her
     Trouble, and more money, to every Watch, to them to drink
     Troubled me, to see the confidence of the vice of the age
     Turn out every man that will be drunk, they must turn out all
     Uncertainty of beauty
     Up, finding our beds good, but lousy; which made us merry
     Vexed me, but I made no matter of it, but vexed to myself
     Weather being very wet and hot to keep meat in.
     When he was seriously ill he declared himself a Roman Catholic
     Where I expect most I find least satisfaction
     Where a pedlar was in bed, and made him rise
     Whip a boy at each place they stop at in their procession
     Whom I find in bed, and pretended a little not well
     With hangings not fit to be seen with mine
     Without importunity or the contrary
     Work that is not made the work of any one man


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. It is very gratifying, however, to be able to say that there are
indications all around us of a coming change to prosperous times.

            Upon the currency question, intimately connected, as it is, with
this topic, I may be permitted to repeat here the statement made
in my letter of acceptance, that in my judgment the feeling of
uncertainty inseparable from an irredeemable paper currency, with
its fluctuation of values, is one of the greatest obstacles to a
return to prosperous times.

    The only safe paper currency is one which rests upon a coin basis
 and is at all times and promptly convertible into coin.
                      

                              I adhere to the views heretofore expressed by me in favor of
Congressional legislation in behalf of an early resumption of specie
payments, and I am satisfied not only that this is wise, but that
the interests, as well as the public sentiment, of the country
imperatively demand it.

                      Passing from these remarks upon the condition of our own country
to consider our relations with other lands, we are reminded by the
international complications abroad, threatening the peace of Europe,
that our traditional rule of noninterference in the affairs of
foreign nations has proved of great value in past times and ought
to be strictly observed.

                        The policy inaugurated by my honored predecessor, President Grant,
of submitting to arbitration grave questions in dispute between
ourselves and foreign powers points to a new, and incomparably the
best, instrumentality for the preservation of peace, and will, as
I believe, become a beneficent example of the course to be pursued
in similar emergencies by other nations.

                        If, unhappily, questions of difference should at any time during
the period of my Administration arise between the United States and
any foreign government, it will certainly be my disposition and my
hope to aid in their settlement in the same peaceful and honorable
way, thus securing to our country the great blessings of peace and
mutual good offices with all the nations of the world.

                          Fellow-citizens, we have reached the close of a political contest
marked by the excitement which usually attends the contests between
great political parties whose members espouse and advocate with
earnest faith their respective creeds.

                                The circumstances were, perhaps, in no respect extraordinary save
in the closeness and the consequent uncertainty of the result.

                                 For the
                                first time in the history of the country it has been deemed best,
in view of the peculiar circumstances of the case, that the objections
and questions in dispute with reference to the counting of the
electoral votes should be referred to the decision of a tribunal
appointed for this purpose.

That tribunal--established by law for this sole purpose; its members, all
of them, men of long-established reputation for integrity and intelligence,
and, with the exception of those who are also members of the supreme
judiciary, chosen equally from both political parties; its deliberations
enlightened by the research and the arguments of able counsel--was entitled
to the fullest confidence of the American people.
Its decisions have been patiently waited for, and accepted as legally
conclusive by the general judgment of the public. For the present, opinion
will widely vary as to the wisdom of the several conclusions announced
by that tribunal. This is to be anticipated in every instance where
matters of dispute are made the subject of arbitration under the forms of
law. Human judgment is never unerring, and is rarely regarded as otherwise
than wrong by the unsuccessful party in the contest.

The fact that two great political parties have in this way settled a dispute
in regard to which good men differ as to the facts and the law no
less than as to the proper course to be pursued in solving the
question in controversy is an occasion for general rejoicing.

Upon one point there is entire unanimity in public sentiment--that conflicting
claims to the Presidency must be amicably and peaceably adjusted, and
that when so adjusted the general acquiescence of the nation ought surely
to follow.

It has been reserved for a government of the people, where the right of
suffrage is universal, to give to the world the first example in history
of a great nation, in the midst of the struggle of opposing parties for
power, hushing its party tumults to yield the issue of the contest to
adjustment according to the forms of law.

Looking for the guidance of that Divine Hand by which the destinies of
nations and individuals are shaped, I call upon you, Senators, Representatives,
judges, fellow-citizens, here and everywhere, to unite with me in an
earnest effort to secure to our country the blessings, not only of
material prosperity, but of justice, peace, and union--a union depending
not upon the constraint of force, but upon the loving devotion of a free
people; "and that all things may be so ordered and settled upon the best
and surest foundations that peace and happiness, truth and justice, religion
and piety, may be established among us for all generations."

* * * * *

JAMES A. GARFIELD INAUGURAL ADDRESS
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1881

[Transcriber's note: Snow on the ground discouraged many spectators
from attending the ceremony at the Capitol. Congressman Garfield had been
nominated on his party's 36th ballot at the convention; and he had won
the popular vote by a slim margin. The former Civil War general was
administered the oath of office by Chief Justice Morrison Waite on the
snow-covered East Portico of the Capitol. In the parade and the inaugural
ball later that day, John Philip Sousa led the Marine Corps band. The
ball was held at the Smithsonian Institution's new National Museum (now
the Arts and Industries Building).]

Fellow-Citizens:

We stand to-day upon an eminence which overlooks a hundred years of national
life--a century crowded with perils, but crowned with the triumphs of
liberty and law. Before continuing the onward march let us pause on this
height for a moment to strengthen our faith and renew our hope by a
glance at the pathway along which our people have traveled.

It is now three days more than a hundred years since the adoption of the
first written constitution of the United States--the Articles of
Confederation and Perpetual Union. The new Republic was then beset with
danger on every hand. It had not conquered a place in the family of
nations. The decisive battle of the war for independence, whose centennial
anniversary will soon be gratefully celebrated at Yorktown, had not yet
been fought. The colonists were struggling not only against the armies of
a great nation, but against the settled opinions of mankind; for the world
did not then believe that the supreme authority of government could be
safely intrusted to the guardianship of the people themselves.

We can not overestimate the fervent love of liberty, the intelligent courage,
and the sum of common sense with which our fathers made the great experiment
of self-government. When they found, after a short trial, that the confederacy
of States, was too weak to meet the necessities of a vigorous and expanding
republic, they boldly set it aside, and in its stead established a National
Union, founded directly upon the will of the people, endowed with full power
of self-preservation and ample authority for the accomplishment
of its great object.

Under this Constitution the boundaries of freedom have been
enlarged, the foundations of order and peace have been strengthened, and
the growth of our people in all the better elements of national life has
indicated the wisdom of the founders and given new hope to their
descendants. Under this Constitution our people long ago made themselves
safe against danger from without and secured for their mariners and flag
equality of rights on all the seas. Under this Constitution twenty-five
States have been added to the Union, with constitutions and laws, framed
and enforced by their own citizens, to secure the manifold blessings
of local self-government.

The jurisdiction of this Constitution now covers an area fifty times greater
than that of the original thirteen States and a population twenty times
greater than that of 1780.

The supreme trial of the Constitution came at last under the tremendous
pressure of civil war. We ourselves are witnesses that the Union emerged
from the blood and fire of that conflict purified and made stronger for
all the beneficent purposes of good government.

And now, at the close of this first century of growth, with the
inspirations of its history in their hearts, our people have lately
reviewed the condition of the nation, passed judgment upon the conduct
and opinions of political parties, and have registered their will concerning
the future administration of the Government. To interpret and to execute
that will in accordance with the Constitution is the paramount duty of
the Executive.

Even from this brief review it is manifest that the nation is resolutely
facing to the front, resolved to employ its best energies in developing
the great possibilities of the future. Sacredly preserving whatever has
been gained to liberty and good government during the century, our people
are determined to leave behind them all those bitter controversies
concerning things which have been irrevocably settled, and the further
discussion of which can only stir up strife and delay the onward march.

The supremacy of the nation and its laws should be no longer a
subject of debate.

That discussion, which for half a century threatened the existence of
the Union, was closed at last in the high court of war by a decree from
which there is no appeal--that the Constitution and the laws made in pursuance
thereof are and shall continue to be the supreme law of the land, binding
alike upon the States and the people. This decree does not disturb the
autonomy of the States nor interfere with any of their necessary rights of
local self-government, but it does fix and establish the permanent
supremacy of the Union.

The will of the nation, speaking with the voice of battle and through the
amended Constitution, has fulfilled the great promise of 1776 by
proclaiming "liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants thereof."

The elevation of the negro race from slavery to the full rights of citizenship
is the most important political change we have known since the adoption
of the Constitution of 1787.

NO thoughtful man can fail to appreciate its beneficent effect upon
our institutions and people. It has freed us from the perpetual danger of
war and dissolution. It has added immensely to the moral and industrial
forces of our people. It has liberated the master as well as the slave
from a relation which wronged and enfeebled both. It has surrendered to
their own guardianship the manhood of more than 5,000,000 people, and
has opened to each one of them a career of freedom and usefulness. It
has given new inspiration to the power of self-help in both races by
making labor more honorable to the one and more necessary to the other. The
influence of this force will grow greater and bear richer fruit with the
coming years.

No doubt this great change has caused serious disturbance to our Southern
communities. This is to be deplored, though it was perhaps unavoidable.
But those who resisted the change should remember that under our institutions
there was no middle ground for the negro race between slavery and
equal citizenship. There can be no permanent disfranchised peasantry in
the United States. Freedom can never yield its fullness of blessings so
long as the law or its administration places the smallest obstacle
in the pathway of any virtuous citizen.

The emancipated race has already made remarkable progress.

With unquestioning devotion to the Union, with a patience and gentleness
not born of fear, they have "followed the light as God gave them to see
the light." They are rapidly laying the material foundations of self-support,
widening their circle of intelligence, and beginning to enjoy the blessings
that gather around the homes of the industrious poor. They deserve the
generous encouragement of all good men. So far as my authority can lawfully
extend they shall enjoy the full and equal protection of the Constitution
and the laws.

The free enjoyment of equal suffrage is still in question, and a frank
statement of the issue may aid its solution. It is alleged that in
many communities negro citizens are practically denied the freedom of the
ballot. In so far as the truth of this allegation is admitted, it is
answered that in many places honest local government is impossible if the
mass of uneducated negroes are allowed to vote. These are grave allegations.
So far as the latter is true, it is the only palliation that can be offered
for opposing the freedom of the ballot. Bad local government is certainly
a great evil, which ought to be prevented; but to violate the freedom and
sanctities of the suffrage is more than an evil. It is a crime which, if
persisted in, will destroy the Government itself.

Suicide is not a remedy. If in other lands it be high treason to compass
the death of the king, it shall be counted no less a crime here to
strangle our sovereign power and stifle its voice.

It has been said that unsettled questions have no pity for the repose of
nations. It should be said with the utmost emphasis that this question
of the suffrage will never give repose or safety to the States or to the
nation until each, within its own jurisdiction, makes and keeps the ballot
free and pure by the strong sanctions of the law.

But the danger which arises from ignorance in the voter can not be denied.
It covers a field far wider than that of negro suffrage and the present
condition of the race. It is a danger that lurks and hides in the sources
and fountains of power in every state. We have no standard by which to
measure the disaster that may be brought upon us by ignorance and vice
in the citizens when joined to corruption and fraud in the suffrage.

The voters of the Union, who make and unmake constitutions, and upon whose
will hang the destinies of our governments, can transmit their supreme
authority to no successors save the coming generation of voters, who are
the sole heirs of sovereign power. If that generation comes to its inheritance
blinded by ignorance and corrupted by vice, the fall of the Republic will
be certain and remediless.

The census has already sounded the alarm in the appalling figures
which mark how dangerously high the tide of illiteracy has risen among our
voters and their children.

To the South this question is of supreme importance. But the responsibility
for the existence of slavery did not rest upon the South alone. The
nation itself is responsible for the extension of the suffrage, and is
under special obligations to aid in removing the illiteracy which it
has added to the voting population. For the North and South alike there is
but one remedy. All the constitutional power of the nation and of the
States and all the volunteer forces of the people should be surrendered
to meet this danger by the savory influence of universal education.

It is the high privilege and sacred duty of those now living to educate their
successors and fit them, by intelligence and virtue, for the inheritance
which awaits them.

In this beneficent work sections and races should be forgotten and
partisanship should be unknown. Let our people find a new meaning in the
divine oracle which declares that "a little child shall lead them,"
for our own little children will soon control the destinies of the
Republic.

My countrymen, we do not now differ in our judgment concerning the
controversies of past generations, and fifty years hence our children will
not be divided in their opinions concerning our controversies.
They will surely bless their fathers and their fathers' God that the
Union was preserved, that slavery was overthrown, and that both races
were made equal before the law. We may hasten or we may retard, but we
can not prevent, the final reconciliation. Is it not possible for
us now to make a truce with time by anticipating and accepting its inevitable
verdict?

Enterprises of the highest importance to our moral and material well-being
unite us and offer ample employment of our best powers. Let all our people,
leaving behind them the battlefields of dead issues, move forward and in
their strength of liberty and the restored Union win the grander victories
of peace.

The prosperity which now prevails is without parallel in our history.
Fruitful seasons have done much to secure it, but they have not done all.
The preservation of the public credit and the resumption of specie
payments, so successfully attained by the Administration of my predecessors,
have enabled our people to secure the blessings which the seasons
brought.

By the experience of commercial nations in all ages it has been found that
gold and silver afford the only safe foundation for a monetary system.
Confusion has recently been created by variations in the relative value
of the two metals, but I confidently believe that arrangements can be
made between the leading commercial nations which will secure the general
use of both metals. Congress should provide that the compulsory coinage
of silver now required by law may not disturb our monetary system by
driving either metal out of circulation. If possible, such an adjustment
should be made that the purchasing power of every coined dollar will
be exactly equal to its debt-paying power in all the markets of the world.

The chief duty of the National Government in connection with the currency
of the country is to coin money and declare its value. Grave doubts have
been entertained whether Congress is authorized by the Constitution to make
any form of paper money legal tender. The present issue of United States
notes has been sustained by the necessities of war; but such paper
should depend for its value and currency upon its convenience in use and
its prompt redemption in coin at the will of the holder, and not upon its
compulsory circulation. These notes are not money, but promises to pay
money. If the holders demand it, the promise should be kept.

The refunding of the national debt at a lower rate of interest should
be accomplished without compelling the withdrawal of the national-bank
notes, and thus disturbing the business of the country.

I venture to refer to the position I have occupied on financial questions
during a long service in Congress, and to say that time and experience
have strengthened the opinions I have so often expressed on these
subjects.

The finances of the Government shall suffer no detriment which it may
be possible for my Administration to prevent.

The interests of agriculture deserve more attention from the Government
than they have yet received. The farms of the United States afford homes
and employment for more than one-half our people, and furnish much the
largest part of all our exports. As the Government lights our coasts for
the protection of mariners and the benefit of commerce, so it should give
to the tillers of the soil the best lights of practical science and
experience.

Our manufacturers are rapidly making us industrially independent, and are
opening to capital and labor new and profitable fields of employment.
Their steady and healthy growth should still be matured. Our facilities
for transportation should be promoted by the continued improvement
of our harbors and great interior waterways and by the increase of our
tonnage on the ocean.

The development of the world's commerce has led to an urgent demand
for shortening the great sea voyage around Cape Horn by constructing
ship canals or railways across the isthmus which unites the
continents.

Various plans to this end have been suggested and will need consideration,
but none of them has been sufficiently matured to warrant the United
States in extending pecuniary aid. The subject, however, is one which
will immediately engage the attention of the Government with a view
to a thorough protection to American interests. We will urge no narrow
policy nor seek peculiar or exclusive privileges in any commercial
route; but, in the language of my predecessor, I believe it to be the right
"and duty of the United States to assert and maintain such supervision
and authority over any interoceanic canal across the isthmus that connects
North and South America as will protect our national interest."
The Constitution guarantees absolute religious freedom. Congress is prohibited
from making any law respecting an establishment of religion or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof. The Territories of the United States
are subject to the direct legislative authority of Congress, and hence the
General Government is responsible for any violation of the Constitution in
any of them. It is therefore a reproach to the Government that in the
most populous of the Territories the constitutional guaranty is not enjoyed
by the people and the authority of Congress is set at naught. The Mormon
Church not only offends the moral sense of manhood by sanctioning polygamy,
but prevents the administration of justice through ordinary
instrumentalities of law.

In my judgment it is the duty of Congress, while respecting to the
uttermost the conscientious convictions and religious scruples of
every citizen, to prohibit within its jurisdiction all criminal
practices, especially of that class which destroy the family relations
and endanger social order.

Nor can any ecclesiastical organization be safely permitted to usurp
in the smallest degree the functions and powers of the National Government.

The civil service can never be placed on a satisfactory basis until
it is regulated by law. For the good of the service itself, for the
protection of those who are intrusted with the appointing power against
the waste of time and obstruction to the public business caused by the
inordinate pressure for place, and for the protection of incumbents
against intrigue and wrong, I shall at the proper time ask Congress to
fix the tenure of the minor offices of the several Executive Departments
and prescribe the grounds upon which removals shall be made during the terms
for which incumbents have been appointed.

Finally, acting always within the authority and limitations of the Constitution,
invading neither the rights of the States nor the reserved rights of the
people, it will be the purpose of my Administration to maintain the authority
of the nation in all places within its jurisdiction; to enforce obedience
to all the laws of the Union in the interests of the people; to demand
rigid economy in all the expenditures of the Government, and to require
the honest and faithful service of all executive officers,
remembering that the offices were created, not for the benefit of
incumbents or their supporters, but for the service of the Government.

And now, fellow-citizens, I am about to assume the great trust which you
have committed to my hands. I appeal to you for that earnest and thoughtful
support which makes this Government in fact, as it is in law, a government
of the people.

I shall greatly rely upon the wisdom and patriotism of Congress and of
those who may share with me the responsibilities and duties of administration,
and, above all, upon our efforts to promote the welfare of this great
people and their Government I reverently invoke the support and blessings
of Almighty God.
* * * * * 

GROVER CLEVELAND, FIRST INAUGURAL ADDRESS
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1885
[Transcriber's note: On the East Portico of the Capitol, the former
Governor of New York was administered the oath of office by Chief
Justice Morrison Waite. A Democrat whose popularity, in part, was
the result that he was not part of the Washington political
establishment, Mr. Cleveland rode to the Capitol with President
Arthur, who had taken office upon the assassination of President
Garfield. After the ceremony, a fireworks display at the White House
and a ball at the Pension Building on Judiciary Square were held
for the public.] 

Fellow-Citizens:
In the presence of this vast assemblage of my countrymen I am about
to supplement and seal by the oath which I shall take the manifestation
of the will of a great and free people. In the exercise of their
power and right of self-government they have committed to one of
their fellow-citizens a supreme and sacred trust, and he here
consecrates himself to their service.
This impressive ceremony adds little to the solemn sense of
responsibility with which I contemplate the duty I owe to all the
people of the land.Sidney Montagu and
Sheres, a small invitation served their turn to carry them to London,
where I paid Sheres his L100, given him for his pains in drawing the plate
of Tangier fortifications, &c., and so home to my house to dinner, where I
had a pretty handsome sudden dinner, and all well pleased; and thence we
three and my wife to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw "The
Witts," a medley of things, but some similes mighty good, though ill
mixed; and thence with my wife to the Exchange and bought some things, and
so home, after I had been at White Hall, and there in the Queen's
withdrawing-room invited my Lord Peterborough to dine with me, with my
Lord Sandwich, who readily accepted it.  Thence back and took up my wife
at the 'Change, and so home.  This day at noon I went with my young
gentlemen (thereby to get a little time while W. Hewer went home to bid
them get a dinner ready) to the Pope's Head tavern, there to see the fine
painted room which Rogerson told me of, of his doing; but I do not like it
at all, though it be good for such a publick room.

19th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon eat a mouthful, and
so with my wife to Madam Turner's, and find her gone, but The. staid for
us; and so to the King's house, to see "Horace;" this the third day of its
acting--a silly tragedy; but Lacy hath made a farce of several
dances--between each act, one: but his words are but silly, and invention
not extraordinary, as to the dances; only some Dutchmen come out of the
mouth and tail of a Hamburgh sow.  Thence, not much pleased with the play,
set them at home in the Strand; and my wife and I home, and there to do a
little business at the Office, and so home to supper and to bed.

20th.  Up; and my wife, and I, and W. Hewer to White Hall, where she set
us down; and there I spoke with my Lord Peterborough, to tell him of the
day for his dining with me being altered by my Lord Sandwich from Friday
to Saturday next.  And thence heard at the Council-board the City, by
their single counsel Symson, and the company of Strangers Merchants, a
debate the business of water-baylage; a tax demanded upon all goods, by
the City, imported and exported: which these Merchants oppose, and
demanding leave to try the justice of the City's demand by a Quo Warranto,
which the City opposed, the Merchants did quite lay the City on their
backs with great triumph, the City's cause being apparently too weak: but
here I observed Mr. Gold, the merchant, to speak very well, and very
sharply, against the City.  Thence to my wife at Unthanke's, and with her
and W. Hewer to Hercules Pillars, calling to do two or three things by the
way, end there dined, and thence to the Duke of York's house, and saw
"Twelfth Night," as it is now revived; but, I think, one of the weakest
plays that ever I saw on the stage.  This afternoon, before the play, I
called with my wife at Dancre's, the great landscape-painter, by Mr.
Povy's advice; and have bespoke him to come to take measure of my
dining-room panels, and there I met with the pretty daughter of the
coalseller's, that lived in Cheapside, and now in Covent Garden, who hath
her picture drawn here, but very poorly; but she is a pretty woman, and
now, I perceive, married, a very pretty black woman. So, the play done, we
home, my wife letting fall some words of her observing my eyes to be
mightily employed in the playhouse, meaning upon women, which did vex me;
but, however, when we come home, we were good friends; and so to read, and
to supper, and so to bed.

21st. Up, and walked to the Temple, it being frosty, and there took coach,
my boy Tom with me, and so to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier, where
they met, and by and by and till twelve at noon upon business, among
others mine, where my desire about being eased of appointing and standing
accountable for a Treasurer there was well accepted, and they will think
of some other way.  This I was glad of, finding reason to doubt that I
might in this (since my Lord Sandwich made me understand what he had said
to the Duke of York herein) fear to offend either the Duke of York by
denying it, for he seemed on Sunday night last, when I first made known my
desire to him herein to be a little amused at it, though I knew not then
the reason, or else offend my Lord Sandwich by accepting it, or denying it
in a manner that might not forward his desire for Sir Charles Harbord, but
I thank God I did it to my great content without any offence, I think, to
either.  Thence in my own coach home, where I find Madam Turner, Dyke, and
The., and had a good dinner for them, and merry; and so carried them to
the Duke of York's house, all but Dyke, who went away on other business;
and there saw "The Tempest;" but it is but ill done by Gosnell, in lieu of
Moll Davis. Thence set them at home, and my wife and I to the 'Change, and
so home, where my wife mighty dogged, and I vexed to see it, being
mightily troubled, of late, at her being out of humour, for fear of her
discovering any new matter of offence against me, though I am conscious of
none; but do hate to be unquiet at home.  So, late up, silent, and not
supping, but hearing her utter some words of discontent to me with
silence, and so to bed, weeping to myself for grief, which she discerning,
come to bed, and mighty kind, and so with great joy on both sides to
sleep.

22nd.  Up, and with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there attended the Duke of
York, and thence to the Exchange, in the way calling at several places on
occasions relating to my feast to-morrow, on which my mind is now set; as
how to get a new looking-glass for my dining-room, and some pewter, and
good wine, against to-morrow; and so home, where I had the looking-glass
set up, cost me L6  7s. 6d.  And here at the 'Change I met with Mr.
Dancre, the famous landscape painter, with whom I was on Wednesday; and he
took measure of my panels in my dining-room, where, in the four, I intend
to have the four houses of the King, White Hall, Hampton Court, Greenwich,
and Windsor.  He gone, I to dinner with my people, and so to my office to
dispatch a little business, and then home to look after things against
to-morrow, and among other things was mightily pleased with the fellow
that come to lay the cloth, and fold the napkins, which I like so well, as
that I am resolved to give him 40s. to teach my wife to do it.  So to
supper, with much kindness between me and my wife, which, now-a-days, is
all my care, and so to bed.

23rd.  Up, and again to look after the setting things right against
dinner, which I did to very good content.  So to the office, where all the
morning till noon, when word brought me to the Board that my Lord Sandwich
was come; so I presently rose, leaving the Board ready to rise, and there
I found my Lord Sandwich, Peterborough, and Sir Charles Harbord; and
presently after them comes my Lord Hinchingbroke, Mr. Sidney, and Sir
William Godolphin.  And after greeting them, and some time spent in talk,
dinner was brought up, one dish after another, but a dish at a time, but
all so good; but, above all things, the variety of wines, and excellent of
their kind, I had for them, and all in so good order, that they were
mightily pleased, and myself full of content at it: and indeed it was, of
a dinner of about six or eight dishes, as noble as any man need to have, I
think; at least, all was done in the noblest manner that ever I had any,
and I have rarely seen in my life better anywhere else, even at the Court.
After dinner, my Lords to cards, and the rest of us sitting about them and
talking, and looking on my books and pictures, and my wife's drawings,
which they commend mightily; and mighty merry all day long, with exceeding
great content, and so till seven at night; and so took their leaves, it
being dark and foul weather.  Thus was this entertainment over, the best
of its kind, and the fullest of honour and content to me, that ever I had
in my life: and shall not easily have so good again.  The truth is, I have
some fear that I am more behind-hand in the world for these last two
years, since I have not, or for some time could not, look after my
accounts, which do a little allay my pleasure.  But I do trust in God I am
pretty well yet, and resolve, in a very little time, to look into my
accounts, and see how they stand.  So to my wife's chamber, and there
supped, and got her cut my hair and look my shirt, for I have itched
mightily these 6 or 7 days, and when all comes to all she finds that I am
lousy, having found in my head and body about twenty lice, little and
great, which I wonder at, being more than I have had I believe these 20
years.  I did think I might have got them from the little boy, but they
did presently look him, and found none.  So how they come I know not, but
presently did shift myself, and so shall be rid of them, and cut my hair
close to my head, and so with much content to bed.

24th (Lord's day).  An order brought me in bed, for the Principal Officers
to attend the King at my Lord Keeper's this afternoon, it being resolved
late the last night; and, by the warrant, I find my Lord Keeper did not
then know the cause of it, the messenger being ordered to call upon him,
to tell it him by the way, as he come to us.  So I up, and to my Office to
set down my Journall for yesterday, and so home, and with my wife to
Church, and then home, and to dinner, and after dinner out with my wife by
coach, to cozen Turner's, where she and The. gone to church, but I left my
wife with Mrs. Dyke and Joyce Norton, whom I have not seen till now since
their coming to town: she is become an old woman, and with as cunning a
look as ever, and thence I to White Hall, and there walked up and down
till the King and Duke of York were ready to go forth; and here I met
Will. Batelier, newly come post from France, his boots all dirty.  He
brought letters to the King, and I glad to see him, it having been
reported that he was drowned, for some days past, and then, he being gone,
I to talk with Tom Killigrew, who told me and others, talking about the
playhouse, that he is fain to keep a woman on purpose at 20s. a week to
satisfy 8 or 10 of the young men of his house, whom till he did so he
could never keep to their business, and now he do.  By and by the King
comes out, and so I took coach, and followed his coaches to my Lord
Keeper's, at Essex House, where I never was before, since I saw my old
Lord Essex lie in state when he was dead; a large, but ugly house.  Here
all the Officers of the Navy attended, and by and by were called in to the
King and Cabinet, where my Lord, who was ill, did lie upon the bed, as my
old Lord Treasurer, or Chancellor, heretofore used to; and the business
was to know in what time all the King's ships might be repaired, fit for
service.  The Surveyor answered, in two years, and not sooner. I did give
them hopes that, with supplies of money suitable, we might have them all
fit for sea some part of the summer after this.  Then they demanded in
what time we could set out forty ships.  It was answered, as they might be
chosen of the newest and most ready, we could, with money, get forty ready
against May.  The King seemed mighty full that we should have money to do
all that we desired, and satisfied that, without it, nothing could be
done: and so, without determining any thing, we were dismissed; and I
doubt all will end in some little fleete this year, and those of hired
merchant-men, which would indeed be cheaper to the King, and have many
conveniences attending it, more than to fit out the King's own; and this,
I perceive, is designed, springing from Sir W. Coventry's counsel; and the
King and most of the Lords, I perceive, full of it, to get the King's
fleete all at once in condition for service.  Thence I with Mr. The
international susceptibilities of Sheriff DRURIOLANUS--henceforth to bear
the Anglo-French title, _Monsieur le Shérif 'Arris de Paris_, or
_'Arry de Parry_,--appear to have been considerably hurt by a statement
in the _Débats_ to the effect that the appearance in the London streets
of men dressed as Gendarmes--"_en gendarmes français_," writes MOSSOO
DRURIOLANE--intended as perambulating advertisements for the Waterloo
Panorama, was due to a supreme effort of his managerial genius. So Shérif
DRURIOLANE wrote at once to the London Correspondent of the _Figaro_,
who bears the singularly French name of JOHNSON, denying, in his very
best French, that he, M. le Shérif, had had anything to do with these walking
advertisements, or, indeed, with the Panorama Company at all, from
which he had retired a year ago.

Up, and to the Committee of Tangier, where little done, and thence
I home by my own coach, and busy after dinner at my office all the
afternoon till late at night, that my eyes were tired.  So home, and my
wife shewed me many excellent prints of Nanteuil's and others, which W.
Batelier hath, at my desire, brought me out of France, of the King, and
Colbert, and others, most excellent, to my great content.  But he hath
also brought a great many gloves perfumed, of several sorts; but all too
big by half for her, and yet she will have two or three dozen of them,
which vexed me, and made me angry.  So she, at last, to please me, did
come to take what alone I thought fit, which pleased me.  So, after a
little supper, to bed, my eyes being very bad.

26th.  Up, and to the office, where busy sitting all the morning. Then to
the Office again, and then to White Hall, leaving my wife at Unthanke's;
and I to the Secretary's chamber, where I was, by particular order, this
day summoned to attend, as I find Sir D. Gawden also was. And here was the
King and the Cabinet met; and, being called in, among the rest I find my
Lord Privy Seale, whom I never before knew to be in so much play, as to be
of the Cabinet.  The business is, that the Algerines have broke the peace
with us, by taking some Spaniards and goods out of an English ship, which
had the Duke of York's pass, of which advice come this day; and the King
is resolved to stop Sir Thomas Allen's fleete from coming home till he
hath amends made him for this affront, and therefore sent for us to advise
about victuals to be sent to that fleete, and some more ships; wherein I
answered them to what they demanded of me, which was but some few mean
things; but I see that on all these occasions they seem to rely most upon
me.  And so, this being done, I took coach and took up my wife and
straight home, and there late at the office busy, and then home, and there
I find W. Batelier hath also sent the books which I made him bring me out
of France.  Among others, L'Estat, de France, Marnix, &c., to my great
content; and so I was well pleased with them, and shall take a time to
look them over: as also one or two printed musick-books of songs; but my
eyes are now too much out of tune to look upon them with any pleasure,
therefore to supper and to bed.

27th.  Up, and with Sir John Minnes in his coach to White Hall, where
first we waited on the Lords of the Treasury about finishing the
Victualling Contract; and there also I was put to it to make good our
letter complaining against my Lord Anglesey's failing us in the payment of
the moneys assigned us upon the Customs, where Mr. Fenn was, and I know
will tell my Lord; but it is no matter, I am over shy already, and
therefore must not fear.  Then we up to a Committee of the Council for the
Navy, about a business of Sir D. Gawden's relating to the Victualling, and
thence I by hackney to the Temple to the Auditor's man, and with him to a
tavern to meet with another under-auditor to advise about the clearing of
my Lord Bellasses' accounts without injuring myself and perplexing my
accounts, and so thence away to my cozen Turner's, where I find Roger
Pepys come last night to town, and here is his mistress, Mrs. Dickenson,
and by and by comes in Mr. Turner, a worthy, sober, serious man--I honour
him mightily.  And there we dined, having but an ordinary dinner; and so,
after dinner, she, and I, and Roger, and his mistress, to the Duke of
York's playhouse, and there saw "The Five Hours' Adventure," which hath
not been acted a good while before, but once, and is a most excellent
play, I must confess.  Their frequent theme was war: they sang The praise
of chiefs of courage high; Yet, from their harps the accents rang That
taught to knighthood chivalry.

Their heroes praise a conquered foe, Oppose their friends for honour's sake,
To weaker chieftains mercy show, And strength of cruel tyrants break.

Their nobles, loving fame, rejoice In glory, got from bards, to shine; Yet
thus ascends Cuchulain's voice:
"No skill indeed to boast is mine!"
They sang, to please a warlike age, Of wars, and women's wild lament, Yet
oft, restraining warriors' rage, Their harps to other themes were bent.

They loved on peaceful pomp to dwell, Rejoiced in music's magic
strains,.

All Nature's smiling face loved well, And "glowing hues of flowery plains."

Though oft of Fairy Land they spoke, No eerie beings dwelled therein,
'Twas filled throughout with joyous folk Like men, though freed from
death and sin.

And sure those bards were truest knights Whose thoughts of women high
were set, Nor deemed them prizes, won in fights, But minds like men's,
and women yet.

With skilful touch they paint us each, Etain, whose beauty's type for
all; Scathach, whose warriors skill could teach Emer, whose words in
wisdom fall;
Deirdre the seer, by love made keen; Flidais, whose bounty armies feeds
The prudent Mugain, Conor's queen; Crund's wife, more swift than Conor's
steeds;
Finnabar, death for love who dared; Revengeful Ferb, who died of grief
Fand, who a vanquished rival spared; Queen Maev, who Connaught led, its
chief.

Not for the creeds their lines preserve Should Ireland's hero tales be
known Their pictured pages praise deserve From all, not learned men
alone.

Their works are here; though flawed by time, To all the living verses
speak Of men who taught to Europe rhyme, Who knew no masters, save the
Greek.

In forms like those men loved of old, Naught added, nothing torn away, The
ancient tales again are told, Can none their own true magic sway?

PRONUNCIATION OF PROPER NAMES

The following list of suggested pronunciations does not claim to be
complete or to be necessarily correct in all cases. Some words like Ferdia
and Conchobar (Conor) have an established English pronunciation that
is strictly speaking wrong; some, like Murthemne are doubtful; the suggestions
given here are those adopted by the editor for such information as is
at his disposal.

It seems to be unnecessary to give all the names, as the list would be
too long; this list contains those names in the first volume as are of
frequent occurrence; names that occur less commonly, and some of those in
the following list, have a pronunciation indicated in foot-notes.
The most important names are in small capitals.
LIST OF NAMES
Aife (Ee-fa), pp. 117, 129, 1342 141, 148, an instructress of
Cuchulain, Ferdia, and others in the art of war.
Cathbad (Cah-ba), pp. 91, 92, 93, 95, a Druid.
Cualgne (Kell-ny), mentioned in the Preface, Introductions, the
"Combat" and elsewhere; a district corresponding to County
Louth.
Cuchulain (Cu-hoo-lin), the hero of the "Sick-bed" and the "Combat,"
and of the Ulster Heroic cycle in general.
Deirdre (Dire-dree), the heroine of the "Exile of the Sons of
Usnach."
Dubhtach (Doov-ta), pp. 48, 97, 98, 107, an Ulster hero.
Eochaid Airem (Yeo-hay Arrem), the king in the "Courtship of Etain."

Eochaid Juil (Yeo-hay Yool), pp. 63, 70, 76, 79, a fairy king killed
by Cuchulain.
Eogan mac Durthacht (Yeogan mac Door-ha), pp. 43, 48, 93, 97, 101,
107; an Ulster hero, the slayer of the sons of Usnach.
Etain (Et-oyn), the heroine of the "Courtship of Etain."
Ferdia (Fer-dee-a), Cuchulain's opponent in the "Combat at the
Ford." The true pronunciation is probably Fer-deed.
Fuamnach (Foom-na), pp. 79 9, 10, 19, 26, a sorceress.
Laeg (Layg), son of Riangabra (Reen-gabra), the charioteer and
friend of Cuchulain, frequently mentioned in the "Sick-bed" and the
"Combat at the Ford."
Laegaire (Leary), pp. 42, 46, 67, an Ulster hero.Batelier talking, and then
making them read, and particularly made an end of Mr. Boyle's Book of
Formes, which I am glad to have over, and then fell to read a French
discourse, which he hath brought over with him for me, to invite the
people of France to apply themselves to Navigation, which it do very well,
and is certainly their interest, and what will undo us in a few years, if
the King of France goes on to fit up his Navy, and encrease it and his
trade, as he hath begun.  At night to supper, and after supper, and W.
Batelier gone, my wife begun another book I lately bought, called "The
State of England," which promises well, and is worth reading, and so after
a while to bed.

31st (Lord's day).  Lay long talking with pleasure, and so up and I to
church, and there did hear the Doctor that is lately turned Divine, I have
forgot his name, I met him a while since at Sir D. Gawden's at dinner, Dr.
Waterhouse!  He preaches in a devout manner of way, not elegant nor very
persuasive, but seems to mean well, and that he would preach holily; and
was mighty passionate against people that make a scoff of religion.  And,
the truth is, I did observe Mrs. Hollworthy smile often, and many others
of the parish, who, I perceive, have known him, and were in mighty
expectation of hearing him preach, but could not forbear smiling, and she
particularly upon me, and I on her.  So home to dinner: and before dinner
to my Office, to set down my journal for this week, and then home to
dinner; and after dinner to get my wife and boy, one after another, to
read to me: and so spent the afternoon and the evening, and so after
supper to bed.  And thus endeth this month, with many different days of
sadness and mirth, from differences between me and my wife, from her
remembrance of my late unkindness to her with Willet, she not being able
to forget it, but now and then hath her passionate remembrance of it as
often as prompted to it by any occasion; but this night we are at present
very kind.  And so ends this month.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Dine with them, at my cozen Roger's mistress's
     Dutchmen come out of the mouth and tail of a Hamburgh sow
     Fain to keep a woman on purpose at 20s. a week
     Find it a base copy of a good originall, that vexed me
     Found in my head and body about twenty lice, little and great
     I have itched mightily these 6 or 7 days
     I know I have made myself an immortal enemy by it
     Lady Castlemayne is now in a higher command over the King
     Mighty fond in the stories she tells of her son Will
     Observing my eyes to be mightily employed in the playhouse
     Proud, carping, insolent, and ironically-prophane stile
     She finds that I am lousy
     Unquiet which her ripping up of old faults will give me
     Up, and with W. [FN#14] Pronounced Leary.
     

                

            "Never shall it be," said Laegaire the Triumphant, "that Ket should
have the division of this Boar in the face of us all."

    "Softly now, O Laegaire!" said Ket; "let me hold speech with
 thee.
                      With you men of Ulster it hath for long been a custom that each lad
among you who takes the arms of a warrior should play first with
us the game of war: thou, O Laegaire, like to the others didst come
to the border, and we rode against one another.

                              And thou didst leave thy charioteer, and thy chariot and thy horses
behind thee, and thou didst fly pierced through with a spear.

                      Not with such a record as that shalt thou obtain the Boar;" and
Laegaire sat himself down.

                        "It shall never come to pass," said a great fair-haired warrior,
stepping forward from the bench whereon he had sat, "that the
division of the Boar shall be left to Ket before our very eyes."

                        "To whom then appertains it?"

                          asked Ket.
                             
                                "To one who is a better warrior than thou," he said, "even to Angus,
the son of Lama Gabaid (Hand-in-danger) of the men of Ulster."

"Why namest thou thy father 'Hand-in-danger?" said Ket.

"Why indeed, I know not," he said.

"Ah! but I know it!" said Ket. "Long ago I went upon a journey in the east,
a war-cry was raised against me, all men attacked me, and Lama Gabaid
was among them. He made a cast of a great spear against me, I hurled
the same spear back upon him, and the spear cut his hand from him so
that it lay upon the ground. How dares the son of that man to measure his
renown with mine?" and Angus went back to his place.

"Come, and claim a renown to match mine," said Ket; "else let me divide
this Boar."
"It shall never be thy part to be the first to divide it," said a great
fair-haired warrior of the men of Ulster.

"Who then is this?" said Ket.

"'Tis Eogan, son of Durthacht,"[FN#15] said they all; "Eogan, the lord of
Fernmay."
"I have seen him upon an earlier day," said Ket.

"Where hast thou seen me?" said Eogan.

"It was before thine own house," said Ket. "As I was driving away thy
cattle, a cry of war was raised in the lands about me; and thou didst come
out at that cry. Thou didst hurl thy spear against me, and it was fixed
in my shield; but I hurled the same spear back against thee, and it tore
out one of thy two eyes. All the men of Ireland can see that thou art
one-eyed; here is the man that struck thine other eye out of thy head,"
and he also sat down.

"Make ye ready again for the strife for renown, O ye men of Ulster!" cried
Ket. "Thou hast not yet gained the right to divide the Boar," said Munremur,
Gerrcind's son.

"Is that Munremur?" cried Ket; "I have but one short word for thee, O Munremur!
Not yet hath the third day passed since I smote the heads off three warriors
who came from your lands, and the midmost of the three was the head of thy
firstborn son!" and Munremur also sat down.

"Come to the strife for renown!" cried Ket.

"That strife will I give to thee," said Mend the son of Salcholcam (the
Sword-heeled).

"Who is this?" asked Ket.

"'Tis Mend," said all who were there.

"Hey there!" cried Ket. "The son of the man with the nickname comes to
measure his renown with mine! Why, Mend, it was by me that the nickname of
thy father came; 'twas I who cut the heel from him with my sword so that
he hopped away from me upon one leg! How shall the son of that one-legged
man measure his renown with mine?" and he also sat down.

[FN#15] Pronounced Yeogan, son of Doorha.

"Come to the strife for renown!" cried Ket.

"That warfare shalt thou have from me!" said an Ulster warrior, tall,
grey, and more terrible than the rest.

"Who is this?" asked Ket.

"'Tis Celtchar, the son of Uitechar," cried all.

"Pause thou a little, Celtchar," said Ket, "unless it be in thy mind to
crush me in an instant. Once did I come to thy dwelling, O Celtchar, a
cry was raised about me, and all men hurried up at that cry, and thou
also camest beside them. It was in a ravine that the combat between us was
held; thou didst hurl thy spear against me, and against thee I also
hurled my spear; and my spear pierced thee through the leg and through
the groin, so that from that hour thou hast been diseased, nor hath son
or daughter been born to thee. How canst thou strive in renown with me?"
and he also sat down.

"Come to the strife for renown!" cried Ket.

"That strife shalt thou have," said Cuscrid the Stammerer, of Macha, king
Conor's son.

"Who is this?" said Ket. "'Tis Cuscrid," said all; "he hath a form which
is as the form of a king."
"Nor hath he aught to thank thee for," said the youth.

"Good!" said Ket. "It was against me that thou didst come on the day when
thou didst first make trial of thy weapons, my lad: 'twas in the
borderland that we met. And there thou didst leave the third part of thy
folk behind thee, and thou didst fly with a spear-thrust through thy throat
so that thou canst speak no word plainly, for the spear cut in sunder the
sinews of thy neck; and from that hour thou hast been called Cuscrid the
Stammerer." And in this fashion did Ket put to shame all the warriors of
the province of Ulster.

But as he was exulting near to the Boar, with his knife in his hand,
all saw Conall, the Victorious enter the palace; and Conall sprang
into the midst of the house, and the men of Ulster hailed him with
a shout; and Conor himself took his helmet from his head, and swung
it on high to greet him.

"'Tis well that I wait for the portion that befalls me!" said Conall.

Who is he who is the divider of the Boar for ye?"
"That office must be given to the man who stands there," said Conor, "even
to Ket, the son of Mata."
"Is this true, O Ket?" said Conall. "Art thou the man to allot this Boar?"
And then sang Ket:

Conall, all hail!
Hard stony spleen Wild glowing flame!
Ice-glitter keen!
Blood in thy breast Rageth and boils; Oft didst thou wrest Victory's
spoils:
Thou scarred son of Finuchoem,[FN#16] thou truly canst claim To
stand rival to me, and to match me in fame!

And Conall replied to him:

Hail to thee, Ket!
Well are we met!
Heart icy-cold, Home for the bold!
Ender of grief!
Car-riding chief!
Sea's stormy wave!
Bull, fair and brave!
Ket! first of the children of Matach!
The proof shall be found when to combat we dart, The proof shall be found
when from combat we part; He shall tell of that battle who guardeth
the stirks, He shall tell of that battle at handcraft who works; And
the heroes shall stride to the wild lion-fight, For by men shall fall men
in this palace to-night:
Welcome, Ket![FN#17]

[FN#16] Pronounced Finn-hoom.

 [FN#17] The short lines of this rhetoric have the metre of the
original Irish.

"Rise thou, and depart from this Boar," said Conall.

"What claim wilt thou bring why I should do this?" said Ket.

"'Tis true indeed," said Conall, "thou art contending in renown with me.
I will give thee one claim only, O Ket! I swear by the oath of my tribe
that since the day that I first received a spear into my hand I have
seldom slept without the head of a slain man of Connaught as my pillow;
and I have not let pass a day or a night in which a man of Connaught hath
not fallen by my hand."
"'Tis true indeed," said Ket, "thou art a better warrior than I. Were but
Anluan here, he could battle with thee in another fashion; shame upon us
that he is not in this house!"
"Aye, but Anluan is here! "cried Conall, and therewith he plucked Anluan's
head from his belt. And he threw the head towards Ket, so that it smote
him upon the chest, and a gulp of the blood was dashed over his lips.
And Ket came away from the Boar, and Conall placed himself beside it.

"Now let men come to contend for renown with me!" cried Conall. But among
the men of Connaught there was none who would challenge him, and they
raised a wall of shields, like a great vat around him, for in that house
was evil wrangling, and men in their malice would make cowardly casts at
him. And Conall turned to divide the Boar, and he took the end of the tail
in his mouth. And although the tail was so great that it was a full load
for nine men, yet he sucked it all into his mouth so that nothing of it
was left; and of this hath been said:

Strong hands on a cart thrust him forward; His great tail, though for nine
men a load, Was devoured by the brave Conall Cernach, As the joints he so
gaily bestowed.

Now to the men of Connaught Conall gave nothing except the two
fore-legs of the Boar, and this share seemed to be but small to the men of
Connaught, and thereon they sprang up, and the men of Ulster also sprang
up, and they rushed at each other. They buffeted each other so that
the heap of bodies inside the house rose as high as the side-walls
of it; and streams of blood flowed under the doors.

The hosts brake out through the doors into the outer court, and great was
the din that uprose; the blood upon the floor of the house might have
driven a mill, so mightily did each man strike out at his fellow.
And at that time Fergus plucked up by the roots a great oak-tree that stood
in the outer court in the midst of it; and they all burst out of
the court, and the battle went on outside.

Then came out Mac Datho, leading the hound by a leash in his hand, that he
might let him loose between the two armies, to see to which side
the sense of the hound would turn. And the hound joined himself with the
men of Ulster, and he rushed on the defeated Connaughtmen, for these were
in flight. And it is told that in the plain of Ailbe, the hound seized
hold of the poles of the chariot in which Ailill and Maev rode:
and there Fer-loga, charioteer to Ailill and Maev, fell upon him, so
that he cast his body to one side, and his head was left upon the poles
of the chariot. And they say that it is for that reason that the plain
of Ailbe is so named, for from the hound Ailbe the name hath come.

The rout went on northwards, over Ballaghmoon, past Rurin Hill, over the
Midbine Ford near to Mullaghmast, over Drum Criach Ridge which is
opposite to what is Kildare to-day, over Rath Ingan which is in the forest
of Gabla, then by Mac Lugna's Ford over the ridge of the two plains till
they came to the Bridge of Carpre that is over the Boyne.
And at the ford which is known as the Ford of the Hound's Head, which
standeth in the west of Meath, the hound's head fell from the chariot.

And, as they went over the heather of Meath, Ferloga the charioteer of
Ailill fell into the heather, and he sprang behind Conor who followed
after them in his chariot, and he seized Conor by the head.

"I claim a boon from thee if I give thee thy life, O Conor!" said he.

"I choose freely to grant that boon," said Conor.

"'Tis no great matter," said Ferloga. "Take me with thee to Emain Macha,
and at each ninth hour let the widows and the growing maidens of Ulster
serenade me[FN#18] with the song: 'Ferloga is my darling.'"

[FN#18] Literally, "sing me a cepoc," or a choral song.

And the women were forced to do it; for they dared not to deny
him, fearing the wrath of Conor; and at the end of a year Ferloga
crossed byAthlone into Connaught, and he took with him two of Conor's
horses bridled with golden reins.

And concerning all this hath it been sung:

Hear truth, ye lads of Connaught; No lies your griefs shall fill,
A youth the Boar divided; The share you had was ill.

Of men thrice fifty fifties Would win the Ailbe Hound; In pride of war
they struggled, Small cause for strife they found.
Yet there came conquering Conor, And Ailill's hosts, and Ket; No law
Cuchulain granted, And brooding Bodb[FN#19] was met.

Dark Durthacht's son, great Eogan, Shall find that journey hard; From
east came Congal Aidni, And Fiaman,[FN#20] sailor bard; Three sons of
Nera, famous For countless warlike fields; Three lofty sons of Usnach, With
hard-set cruel shields.

From high Conalad Croghan Wise Senlaech[FN#21] drave his car; And
Dubhtach[FN#22] came from Emain, His fame is known afar; And Illan
came, whom glorious For many a field they hail:
Loch Sail's grim chief, Munremur; Berb Baither, smooth of tale;
[FN#19] Pronounced Bobe, with sound of 'robe.'

[FN#20] Pronounced Feeman.

[FN#21] Pronounced Senlay, with the light final ch.

[FN#22] Pronounced Doov-ta.

And Celtchar, lord in Ulster; And Conall's valour wild; And Marcan
came; and Lugaid Of three great hounds the child.
Fergus, awaiting the glorious hound, Spreadeth a cloak o'er his
mighty shield, Shaketh an oak he hath plucked from ground, Red was
the woe the red cloak concealed.
Yonder stood Cethern,[FN#23] of Finntan son, Holding them back;
till six hours had flown Connaughtmen's slaughter his hand hath
done, Pass of the ford he hath held alone.
Armies with Feidlim[FN#24] the war sustain, Laegaire the Triumpher
rides on east, Aed, son of Morna, ye hear complain, Little his
thought is to mourn that beast.
High are the nobles, their deeds show might, Housefellows fair, and
yet hard in fight; Champions of strength upon clans bring doom,
Great are the captives, and vast the tomb.
[FN#23] Pronounced Kay-hern.

[FN#24] Pronounced Fay-lim.
THE SICK-BED OF CUCHULAIN 

INTRODUCTION
The romance called the "Sick-bed of Cuchulain," the latter part of
which is also known as the "Jealousy of Emer," is preserved in two
manuscripts, one of which is the eleventh-century Leabhar na h-Uidhri,
the other a fifteenth century manuscript in the Trinity College
Library. These two manuscripts give substantially the same account,
and are obviously taken from the same source, but the later of the
two is not a copy of the older manuscript, and sometimes preserves
a better reading.
The eleventh-century manuscript definitely gives a yet older book,
the Yellow Book of Slane, now lost, as its authority, and this may
be the ultimate authority for the tale as we have it. But, although
there is only one original version of the text, it is quite plain
from internal evidence that the compiler of the Yellow Book of
Slane, or of an earlier book, had two quite different forms of the
story to draw from, and combined them in the version that we have.
The first, which may be called the "Antiquarian" form, relates the
cause of Cuchulain's illness, tells in detail of the journey of his
servant Laeg to Fairyland, in order to test the truth of a message
sent to Cuchulain that he can be healed by fairy help, and then
breaks off. In both the Leabhar na h-Uidhri and in the fifteenth-century
manuscript, follows a long passage which has absolutely nothing to
do with the story, consisting of an account how Lugaid Red-Stripes
was elected to be king over Ireland, and of the Bull Feast at which
the coming of Lugaid is prophesied. Both manuscripts then give the
counsel given by Cuchulain to Lugaid on his election (this passage
being the only justification for the insertion, as Cuchulain is
supposed to be on his sick-bed when the exhortation is given); and
both then continue the story in a quite different form, which may
be called the "Literary" form. The cause of the sickness is not
given in the Literary form, which commences with the rousing of
Cuchulain from his sick-bed, this rousing being due to different
agency from that related in the Antiquarian form, for in the latter
Cuchulain is roused by a son of the fairy king, in the former b his
wife Emer. The journey of Laeg to Fairyland is then told in the
literary form with different detail to that given in the Antiquarian
one, and the full conclusion is then supplied in this form alone;
so that we have, although in the same manuscript version, two quite
distinct forms of the original legend, the first defective at the
end of the story, the other at its beginning.
Not only are the incidents of the two forms of the story different
in many respects, but the styles are so absolutely different that
it would seem impossible to attribute them to the same author. The
first is a mere compilation by an antiquarian; it is difficult to
imagine that it was ever recited in a royal court, although the
author may have had access to a better version than his own. He
inserts passages which do not develop the interest of the story;
hints at incidents (the temporary absence of Fergus and Conall)
which are not developed or alluded to afterwards, and is a notable
early example of the way in which Irish literature can be spoiled
by combining several different independent stories into one. There
is only one gem, strictly so called, and that not of a high order;
the only poetic touches occur in the rhetoric, and, although in
this there is a weird supernatural flavour, that may have marked
the original used by the compiler of this form ' the human interest
seems to be exceptionally weak.
The second or Literary form is as different from the other as it
is possible for two compositions on the same theme to be. The first
few words strike the human note in Cuchulain's message to his wife:
"Tell her that it goeth better with me from hour to hour;" the poems
are many, long, and of high quality; the rhetoric shows a strophic
correspondence; the Greek principle of letting the messenger tell
the story instead of relating the facts, in a narrative of events
(the method followed in the Antiquarian version) is made full use
of; the modest account given by Cuchulain of his own deeds contrasts
well with the prose account of the same deeds; and the final relation
of the voluntary action of the fairy lady who gives up her lover
to her rival, and her motives, is a piece of literary work centuries
in advance of any other literature of modern Europe.Up, and my wife with me to White Hall, and Tom, and there she sets
us down, and there to wait on the Duke of York, with the rest of us, at
the Robes, where the Duke of York did tell us that the King would have us
prepare a draught of the present administration of the Navy, and what it
was in the late times, in order to his being able to distinguish between
the good and the bad, which I shall do, but to do it well will give me a
great deal of trouble.  Here we shewed him Sir J. Minnes's propositions
about balancing Storekeeper's accounts; and I did shew him Hosier's, which
did please him mightily, and he will have it shewed the Council and King
anon, to be put in practice.  Thence to the Treasurer's; and I and Sir J.
Minnes and Mr. Tippets down to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury,
and there had a hot debate from Sir Thomas Clifford and my Lord Ashly (the
latter of which, I hear, is turning about as fast as he can to the Duke of
Buckingham's side, being in danger, it seems, of being otherwise out of
play, which would not be convenient for him), against Sir W. Coventry and
Sir J. Duncomb, who did uphold our Office against an accusation of our
Treasurers, who told the Lords that they found that we had run the King in
debt L50,000 or more, more than the money appointed for the year would
defray, which they declared like fools, and with design to hurt us, though
the thing is in itself ridiculous.  But my Lord Ashly and Clifford did
most horribly cry out against the want of method in the Office.  At last
it come that it should be put in writing what they had to object; but I
was devilish mad at it, to see us thus wounded by our own members, and so
away vexed, and called my wife, and to Hercules Pillars, Tom and I, there
dined; and here there coming a Frenchman by with his Shew, we did make him
shew it us, which he did just as Lacy acts it, which made it mighty
pleasant to me.  So after dinner we away and to Dancre's, and there saw
our picture of Greenwich in doing, which is mighty pretty, and so to White
Hall, my wife to Unthank's, and I attended with Lord Brouncker the King
and Council, about the proposition of balancing Storekeeper's accounts and
there presented Hosier's book, and it was mighty well resented and
approved of.  So the Council being up, we to the Queen's side with the
King and Duke of York: and the Duke of York did take me out to talk of our
Treasurers, whom he is mighty angry with: and I perceive he is mighty
desirous to bring in as many good motions of profit and reformation in the
Navy as he can, before the Treasurers do light upon them, they being
desirous, it seems, to be thought the great reformers: and the Duke of
York do well.  But to my great joy he is mighty open to me in every thing;
and by this means I know his whole mind, and shall be able to secure
myself, if he stands. Here to-night I understand, by my Lord Brouncker,
that at last it is concluded on by the King and Buckingham that my Lord of
Ormond shall not hold his government of Ireland, which is a great stroke,
to shew the power of Buckingham and the poor spirit of the King, and
little hold that any man can have of him.  Thence I homeward, and calling
my wife called at my cozen Turner's, and there met our new cozen Pepys
(Mrs. Dickenson), and Bab. and Betty' come yesterday to town, poor girls,
whom we have reason to love, and mighty glad we are to see them; and there
staid and talked a little, being also mightily pleased to see Betty
Turner, who is now in town, and her brothers Charles and Will, being come
from school to see their father, and there talked a while, and so home,
and there Pelling hath got me W. Pen's book against the Trinity.

     [Entitled, "The Sandy Foundation Shaken; or those .  .  .  doctrines
     of one God subsisting in three distinct and separate persons; the
     impossibility of God's pardoning sinners without a plenary
     satisfaction, the justification of impure persons by an imputative
     righteousness, refuted from the authority of Scripture testimonies
     and right reason, etc.  London, 1668."  It caused him to be
     imprisoned in the Tower.  "Aug. 4, 1669.  Young Penn who wrote the
     blasphemous book is delivered to his father to be transported"
     ("Letter to Sir John Birkenhead, quoted by Bishop Kennett in his MS.
     Collections, vol. lxxxix., p. 477).]

I got my wife to read it to me; and I find it so well writ as, I think, it
is too good for him ever to have writ it; and it is a serious sort of
book, and not fit for every body to read.  So to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at noon home to dinner,
and thence to the office again mighty busy, to my great content, till
night, and then home to supper and, my eyes being weary, to bed.

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and by coach to Sir W. Coventry, and there, he
taking physic, I with him all the morning, full of very good discourse of
the Navy and publick matters, to my great content, wherein I find him
doubtful that all will be bad, and, for his part, he tells me he takes no
more care for any thing more than in the Treasury; and that, that being
done, he goes to cards and other delights, as plays, and in summertime to
bowles.  But here he did shew me two or three old books of the Navy, of my
Lord Northumberland's' times, which he hath taken many good notes out of,
for justifying the Duke of York and us, in many things, wherein, perhaps,
precedents will be necessary to produce, which did give me great content.
At noon home, and pleased mightily with my morning's work, and coming
home, I do find a letter from Mr. Wren, to call me to the Duke of York
after dinner.  So dined in all haste, and then W. Hewer and my wife and I
out, we set her at my cozen Turner's while we to White Hall, where the
Duke of York expected me; and in his closet Wren and I. He did tell me how
the King hath been acquainted with the Treasurers' discourse at the Lords
Commissioners of the Treasury, the other day, and is dissatisfied with our
running him in debt, which I removed; and he did, carry me to the King,
and I did satisfy him also; but his satisfaction is nothing worth, it
being easily got, and easily removed; but I do purpose to put in writing
that which shall make the Treasurers ashamed.  But the Duke of York is
horrid angry against them; and he hath cause, for they do all they can to
bring dishonour upon his management, as do vainly appear in all they do.
Having done with the Duke of York, who do repose all in me, I with Mr.
Wren to his, chamber, to talk; where he observed, that these people are
all of them a broken sort of people, that have not much to lose, and
therefore will venture all to make their fortunes better: that Sir Thomas
Osborne is a beggar, having 11 of L1200 a-year, but owes above L10,000.
The Duke of Buckingham's condition is shortly this: that he hath about
L19,600 a-year, of which he pays away about L7,000 a-year in interest,
about L2000 in fee-farm rents to the King, about L6000 wages and pensions,
and the rest to live upon, and pay taxes for the whole. Wren says, that
for the Duke of York to stir in this matter, as his quality might justify,
would but make all things worse, and that therefore he must bend, and
suffer all, till time works it out: that he fears they will sacrifice the
Church, and that the King will take anything, and so he will hold up his
head a little longer, and then break in pieces.  But Sir W. Coventry did
today mightily magnify my late Lord Treasurer, for a wise and solid,
though infirm man: and, among other things, that when he hath said it was
impossible in nature to find this or that sum of money, and my Lord
Chancellor hath made sport of it, and tell the King that when my Lord hath
said it [was] impossible, yet he hath made shift to find it, and that was
by Sir G. Carteret's getting credit, my Lord did once in his hearing say
thus, which he magnifies as a great saying--that impossible would be found
impossible at last; meaning that the King would run himself out, beyond
all his credit and funds, and then we should too late find it impossible;
which is, he says, now come to pass.  For that Sir W. Coventry says they
could borrow what money they would, if they had assignments, and funds to
secure it with, which before they had enough of, and then must spend it as
if it would never have an end.  From White Hall to my cozen Turner's, and
there took up my wife; and so to my uncle Wight's, and there sat and
supped, and talked pretty merry, and then walked home, and to bed.

15th.  Up, and with Tom to White Hall; and there at a Committee of
Tangier, where a great instance of what a man may lose by the neglect of a
friend: Povy never had such an opportunity of passing his accounts, the
Duke of York being there, and everybody well disposed, and in expectation
of them; but my Lord Ashly, on whom he relied, and for whose sake this day
was pitched on, that he might be sure to be there, among the rest of his
friends, staid too long, till the Duke of York and the company thought
unfit to stay longer and so the day lost, and God knows when he will ever
have so good a one again, as long as he lives; and this was the man of the
whole company that he hath made the most interest to gain, and now most
depended upon him.  So up and down the house a while, and then to the
plaisterer's, and there saw the figure of my face taken from the mould:
and it is most admirably like, and I will have another made, before I take
it away, and therefore I away and to the Temple, and thence to my cozen
Turner's, where, having the last night been told by her that she had drawn
me for her Valentine, I did this day call at the New Exchange, and bought
her a pair of green silk stockings and garters and shoe-strings, and two
pair of jessimy gloves, all coming to about 28s., and did give them her
this noon.  At the 'Change, I did at my bookseller's shop accidentally
fall into talk with Sir Samuel Tuke about trees, and Mr. Evelyn's garden;
and I do find him, I think, a little conceited, but a man of very fine
discourse as any I ever heard almost, which I was mighty glad of.  I dined
at my cozen Turner's, and my wife also and her husband there, and after
dinner, my wife and I endeavoured to make a visit to Ned Pickering; but he
not at home, nor his lady; and therefore back again, and took up my cozen
Turner, and to my cozen Roger's lodgings, and there find him pretty well
again, and his wife mighty kind and merry, and did make mighty much of us,
and I believe he is married to a very good woman.  Here was also Bab. and
Betty, who have not their clothes yet, and therefore cannot go out,
otherwise I would have had them abroad to-morrow; but the poor girls
mighty kind to us, and we must skew them kindness also.  Here in Suffolk
Street lives Moll Davis; and we did see her coach come for her to her
door, a mighty pretty fine coach.  Here we staid an hour or two, and then
carried Turner home, and there staid and talked a while, and then my wife
and I to White Hall; and there, by means of Mr. Cooling, did get into the
play, the only one we have seen this winter: it was "The Five Hours'
Adventure:" but I sat so far I could not hear well, nor was there any
pretty woman that I did see, but my wife, who sat in my Lady Fox's pew

     [We may suppose that pews were by no means common at this time
     within consecrated walls, from the word being applied indifferently
     by Pepys to a box in a place of amusement, and two days afterwards
     to a seat at church.  It would appear, from other authorities, that
     between 1646 and 1660 scarcely any pews had been erected; and Sir C.
     Wren is known to have objected to their introduction into his London
     churches.--B.]

with her.  The house very full; and late before done, so that it was past
eleven before we got home.  But we were well pleased with seeing it, and
so to supper, where it happened that there was no bread in the house,
which was an unusual case, and so to bed.

16th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, my head full of
business of the office now at once on my hands, and so at noon home to
dinner, where I find some things of W. Batelier's come out of France,
among which some clothes for my wife, wherein she is likely to lead me to
the expence of so much money as vexed me; but I seemed so, more than I at
this time was, only to prevent her taking too much, and she was mighty
calm under it.  But I was mightily pleased with another picture of the
King of France's head, of Nanteuil's, bigger than the other which he
brought over, that pleases me infinitely: and so to the Office, where busy
all the afternoon, though my eyes mighty bad with the light of the candles
last night, which was so great as to make my eyes sore all this day, and
do teach me, by a manifest experiment, that it is only too much light that
do make my eyes sore.  Nevertheless, with the help of my tube, and being
desirous of easing my mind of five or six days journall, I did venture to
write it down from ever since this day se'nnight, and I think without
hurting my eyes any more than they were before, which was very much, and
so home to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and with W. Hewer with me to Lincoln's Inn, by appointment, to
have spoke with Mr. Pedley about Mr. Goldsborough's business and Mr.
Weaver's, but he was gone out, and so I with Mr. Castle, the son-in-law of
Weaver, to White Hall to look for him, but did not find him, but here I
did meet with several and talked, and do hear only that the King dining
yesterday at the Dutch Embassador's, after dinner they drank, and were
pretty merry; and, among the rest of the King's company, there was that
worthy fellow my lord of Rochester, and Tom Killigrew, whose mirth and
raillery offended the former so much, that he did give Tom Killigrew a box
on the ear in the King's presence, which do much give offence to the
people here at Court, to see how cheap the King makes himself, and the
more, for that the King hath not only passed by the thing, and pardoned it
to Rochester already, but this very morning the King did publickly walk up
and down, and Rochester I saw with him as free as ever, to the King's
everlasting shame, to have so idle a rogue his companion.  How Tom
Killigrew takes it, I do not hear.  I do also this day hear that my Lord
Privy Seale do accept to go Lieutenant into Ireland; but whether it be
true or no, I cannot tell.  So calling at my shoemaker's, and paying him
to this day, I home to dinner, and in the afternoon to Colonel Middleton's
house, to the burial of his wife, where we are all invited, and much more
company, and had each of us a ring: and so towards evening to our church,
where there was a sermon preached by Mills, and so home. At church there
was my Lord Brouncker and Mrs. Williams in our pew, the first time they
were ever there or that I knew that either of them would go to church.  At
home comes Castle to me, to desire me to go to Mr. Pedly, this night, he
being to go out of town to-morrow morning, which I, therefore, did, by
hackney-coach, first going to White Hall to meet with Sir W. Coventry, but
missed him.  But here I had a pleasant rencontre of a lady in mourning,
that, by the little light I had, seemed handsome. I passing by her, I did
observe she looked back again and again upon me, I suffering her to go
before, and it being now duske.  I observed she went into the little
passage towards the Privy Water-Gate, and I followed, but missed her; but
coming back again, I observed she returned, and went to go out of the
Court.  I followed her, and took occasion, in the new passage now built,
where the walke is to be, to take her by the hand, to lead her through,
which she willingly accepted, and I led her to the Great Gate, and there
left her, she telling me, of her own accord, that she was going as far as,
Charing Cross; but my boy was at the gate, and so je durst not go out con
her, which vexed me, and my mind (God forgive me) did run apres her toute
that night, though I have reason to thank God, and so I do now, that I was
not tempted to go further.  So to Lincoln's Inn, where to Mr. Pedly, with
whom I spoke, and did my business presently: and I find him a man of very
good language, and mighty civil, and I believe very upright: and so home,
where W. Batelier was, and supped with us, and I did reckon this night
what I owed him; and I do find that the things my wife, of her own head,
hath taken (together with my own, which comes not to above L5), comes to
above L22.  But it is the last, and so I am the better contented; and they
are things that are not trifles, but clothes, gloves, shoes, hoods, &c.
So after supper, to bed.

18th.  Up, and to the Office, and at noon home, expecting to have this day
seen Bab. and Betty Pepys here, but they come not; and so after dinner my
wife and I to the Duke of York's house, to a play, and there saw "The Mad
Lover," which do not please me so well as it used to do, only Betterton's
part still pleases me.  But here who should we have come to us but Bab.
and Betty and Talbot, the first play they were yet at; and going to see
us, and hearing by my boy, whom I sent to them, that we were here, they
come to us hither, and happened all of us to sit by my cozen Turner and
The., and we carried them home first, and then took Bab. and Betty to our
house, where they lay and supped, and pretty merry, and very fine with
their new clothes, and good comely girls they are enough, and very glad I
am of their being with us, though I would very well have been contented to
have been without the charge.  So they to bed and we to bed.

19th.  Up, and after seeing the girls, who lodged in our bed, with their
maid Martha, who hath been their father's maid these twenty years and
more, I with Lord Brouncker to White Hall, where all of us waited on the
Duke of York; and after our usual business done, W. Hewer and I to look my
wife at the Black Lion, Mercer's, but she is gone home, and so I home and
there dined, and W. Batelierand W. Hewer with us.  All the afternoon I at
the Office, while the young people went to see Bedlam, and at night home
to them and to supper, and pretty merry, only troubled with a great cold
at this time, and my eyes very bad ever since Monday night last that the
light of the candles spoiled me.  So to bed.  This morning, among other
things, talking with Sir W. Coventry, I did propose to him my putting in
to serve in Parliament, if there should, as the world begins to expect, be
a new one chose: he likes it mightily, both for the King's and Service's
sake, and the Duke of York's, and will propound it to the Duke of York:
and I confess, if there be one, I would be glad to be in.

20th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and then home to dinner, and
after dinner out with my wife and my two girls to the Duke of York's
house, and there saw "The Gratefull Servant," a pretty good play, and
which I have forgot that ever I did see.  And thence with them to Mrs.
Gotier's, the Queen's tire-woman, for a pair of locks for my wife; she is
an oldish French woman, but with a pretty hand as most I have seen; and so
home, and to supper, W. Batelier and W. Hewer with us, and so my cold
being great, and greater by my having left my coat at my tailor's to-night
and come home in a thinner that I borrowed there, I went to bed before
them and slept pretty well.

21st (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife and two girls to church, they
very fine; and so home, where comes my cozen Roger and his wife, I having
sent for them, to dine with us, and there comes in by chance also Mr.
Shepley, who is come to town with my Lady Paulina, who is desperately
sick, and is gone to Chelsey, to the old house where my Lord himself was
once sick, where I doubt my Lord means to visit hers more for young Mrs.
Beck's sake than for hers.  Here we dined with W. Batelier, and W. Hewer
with us, these two, girls making it necessary that they be always with us,
for I am not company light enough to be always merry with them and so sat
talking all the afternoon, and then Shepley went: away first, and then my
cozen Roger and his wife.  And so I, to my Office, to write down my
Journall, and so home to my chamber and to do a little business there, my
papers being in mighty disorder, and likely so to continue while these
girls are with us.  In the evening comes W. Batelier and his sisters and
supped and talked with us, and so spent the evening, myself being somewhat
out of order because of my eyes, which have never been well since last
Sunday's reading at Sir W. Coventry's chamber, and so after supper to bed.

22nd.  Up, and betimes to White Hall; but there the Duke of York is gone
abroad a-hunting, and therefore after a little stay there I into London,
with Sir H. Cholmly, talking all the way of Tangier matters, wherein I
find him troubled from some reports lately from Norwood (who is his great
enemy and I doubt an ill man), of some decay of the Mole, and a breach
made therein by the sea to a great value.  He set me down at the end of
Leadenhall Street, and so I home, and after dinner, with my wife, in her
morning-gown, and the two girls dressed, to Unthanke's, where my wife
dresses herself, having her gown this day laced, and a new petticoat; and
so is indeed very fine.  And in the evening I do carry them to White Hall,
and there did without much trouble get into the playhouse, there in a good
place among the Ladies of Honour, and myself also sat in the pit; and
there by and by come the King and Queen, and they begun "Bartholomew
Fayre."  In Merovingian and early Carlovingian times, when French songs
were composed, which are now lost but must have preceded the extant
chansons de geste, the Irish schools were attracting scholars from the
neighbouring countries of Europe; Ireland was sending out a steady
stream of "learned men" to France, Germany, and Italy; and it is at least
possible that some who knew the Irish teachers realized the merit of the
literary works with which some of these teachers must have been familiar.
The form of the twelfth-century French romance, "Aucassin and Nicolete,"
is that of the chief Irish romances, and may well have been suggested
by them; whilst the variety of the rhythm and the elaborate laws
of the earliest French poetry, which, both in its Northern and
Southern form, dates from the first half of the twelfth century,
almost imply a pre-existing model; and such a model is more easily
traced in Irish than in any other vernacular literature that was
then available.

It is indeed nearly as hard to suppose that the beautiful literature of
Ireland had absolutely no influence upon nations known to be in contact
with it, as it would be to hold to the belief that the ancient Cretan
civilisation had no effect upon the liter ary development that culminated
in the poems of Homer.

Before speaking of what the Irish literature was, it may be well to say
what it was not. The incidents related in it date back, according to the
"antiquaries" of the ninth to the twelfth centuries, some to the Christian
era, some to a period long anterior to it; but occasional allusions to
events that were unknown in Ireland before the introduction of
Christianity, and a few to classical personages, show that the form
of the present romances can hardly be pre-Christian, or even close
translations into Old or Middle Irish of Druidic tales.

     It has therefore been the fashion to speak of the romances as
     inaccurate survivals of pre-Christian works, which have
     been added to by successive generations of "bards," a mode of viewing
     our versions of the romances which of course puts them out of the
     category of original literature and hands them over to the antiquarians;
     but before they suffer this fate, it is reasonable to ask that
     their own literary merit should be considered in a more serious
     manner than has yet been attempted.
     
     The idea that our versions of the romances are inaccurate reproductions
     of Druidic tales is not at all borne out by a study of the
     romances themselves; for each of these, except for a few very
     manifestly late insertions, has a style and character of its
     own. There were, undoubtedly, old traditions, known to the men
     who in the sixth and seventh centuries may have written the tales
     that we have, known even to men who in the tenth and eleventh centuries
     copied them and commented upon them; but the romances as they now
     stand do not look like pieces of patchwork, but like the works of
     men who had ideas to convey; and to me at least they seem to bear
approximately the same relation to the Druid legends as the works
of the Attic tragedians bear to the archaic Greek legends on which
their tragedies were based.

In more than one case, as in the "Courtship of Etain," which is more
fully discussed below, there are two versions of the same tale, the
framework being the same in both, while the treatment of the incidents
and the view of the characters of the actors is essentially different; and
when the story is treated from the antiquarian point of view, that which
regards both versions as resting upon a common prehistoric model, the
question arises, which of the two more nearly represents the "true"
version?

     There is, I would submit, in such cases, no true version. The old
     Druidic story, if it could be found, would in all probability contain
     only a very small part of either of our two versions; it would be
bald, half-savage in tone, like one of the more ancient Greek myths,
and producing no literary effect; the literary effect of both the
versions that we have, being added by men who lived in Christian
times, were influenced by Christian ideals, and probably were, like
many of their contemporaries, familiar with the literary bequests
of the ancient world.

[FN#2]

[FN#2] It seems to be uncertain whether or not the writers of the Irish
romances shared in the classical learning for which Ireland was noted
in their time. The course of study at the schools established for
the training of the fili in the tenth and eleventh centuries was certainly,
as has been pointed out, very different from that of the ecclesiastical
schools (see Joyce, vol. i. p. 430). No classical instruction was included
in this training, but it is not certain that this separation of
studies was so complete before what is called the "antiquarian age"
set in.

Cormac mac Cuninan, for example, was a classical scholar, and at the
same time skilled in the learning of the fili. It should also be observed
that the course at the ecclesiastical schools, as handed down to us,
hardly seems to be classical enough to have produced a Columbanus or
an Erigena; the studies that produced these men must have been of a different
kind, and the lay schools as originally established by Sanchan Torpest
may have included much that afterwards gave place to a more purely Irish
training. The tale of Troy seems to have been known to the fili, and
there are in their works allusions to Greek heroes, to Hercules and
Hector, but it has been pointed out by Mr. Nutt that there is little if any
evidence of influence produced by Latin or Greek literature on the
actual matter or thought of the older Irish work.

On this point reference may be made to a note on "Mae Datho's Boar" in this
volume (p. 173), but even if this absence of classical influence is established
(and it is hard to say what will not be found in Irish literature), it
is just possible that the same literary feeling which made Irish writers
of comparatively late tales keep the bronze weapons and chariots of an
earlier date in their accounts of ancient wars, while they described arms
of the period when speaking of battles of their own time, affected
them in this instance also; and that they had enough restraint to refrain
from introducing classical and Christian ideas when speaking of times in
which they knew these ideas would have been unfamiliar.

It may be, and often is, assumed that the appearance of grotesque
or savage passages in a romance is an indication of high antiquity, and
that these passages at least are faithful reproductions of Druidic
originals, but this does not seem to be quite certain. Some of these passages,
especially in the case of romances preserved in the Leabhar na h-Uidhri
(The Book of the Dun Cow), look like insertions made by scribes of an
antiquarian turn of mind,[FN#3] and are probably of very ancient date;
in other cases, as for example in the "Boar of Mac Datho," where Conall
dashes Anluan's head into Ket's face, the savagery is quite in
'keeping with the character of the story, and way have been deliberately
invented by an author living in Christian times, to add a flavour to his
tale, although in doing so he probably imitated a similar incident in
some other legend. To take a classical parallel, the barbarity shown
by Aeneas in Aeneid x. 518-520, in sacrificing four youths on the funeral
pyre of Pallas, an act which would have been regarded with horror in
Virgil's own day, does not prove that there was any ancient tale of the
death of Pallas in which these victims were sacrificed, nor even that
such victims were sacrificed in ancient Latium in Pallas' day; but it does
show that Virgil was familiar with the fact that such victims used
in some places to be sacrificed on funeral pyres; for, in a sense,
he could not have actually invented the incident.

[FN#3] See the exhibition of the tips of tongues in the "Sick-bed of
Cuchulain," page 57.

Thus the appearance of an archaic element in an Irish romance is in
itself no proof of the Druidic origin of that form of the romance,
nor even of the existence of that element in the romance's earliest
form:
upon such a principle the archaic character of the motif of the
"Oedipus Coloneus" would prove it to be the oldest of the Greek
tragedies, while as a matter of fact it seems to be doubtful whether
the introduction of this motif into the story of Oedipus was not
due to Sophocles himself, although of course he drew the idea of
it, if not from the original legend of Oedipus, from some other
early legend.

The most satisfactory test of the authorship of an Irish romance, and one
of the most satisfactory tests of its date, is its literary character; and
if we look at the literary character of the best of the Irish romances,
there is one point that is immediately apparent, the blending of prose
and verse. One, the most common, explanation of this, is that the verse
was added to the original tale, another that the verse is the older part,
the prose being added to make a framework for the verse, but a general
view of some of the original romances appears to lead to a very different
conclusion. It seems much more probable that the Irish authors deliberately
chose a method of making their work at once literary and suited to please
a popular audience; they told their stories in plain prose, adding to
them verse, possibly chanted by the reciters of the stories, so that while
the prose told the story in simple language, the emotions of pity, martial
ardour, and the like were awakened by the verse. They did not use the epic
form, although their knowledge of classical literature must have made them
familiar with it; the Irish epic form is Romance. They had, besides the
prose and what may be called the "regular" verse, a third form, that
of rose, or as it is sometimes called rhetoric, which is a very irregular
form of verse. Sometimes it rhymes, but more often not; the lines are of
varying lengths, and to scan them is often very difficult, an alliteration
taking the place of scansion in many cases. The rhetoric does not in general
develop the story nor take the form of description, it usually consists
of songs of triumph, challenges, prophecies, and exhortations, though it
is sometimes used for other purposes. It does not conform to strict
grammatical rules like the more regular verse and the prose, and
many of the literal translations which Irish scholars have made for
us of the romances omit this rhetoric entirely, owing to the
difficulty in rendering it accurately, and because it does not
develop the plots of the stories.

                Notable examples of such omissions are in Miss Faraday's translation
of the Leabhar na h-Uidhri version of the "Great Tain," and in
Whitley Stokes' translation of the "Destruction of Da Derga's
Hostel."

            With all respect to these scholars, and with the full consciousness
of the difficulty of the task that has naturally been felt by one
who has vainly attempted to make sense of what their greater skill
has omitted, it may be suggested that the total omission of such
passages injures the literary effect of a romance in a manner similar
to the effect of omitting all the choric pieces in a Greek tragedy:
the rhetoric indeed, on account of its irregularity, its occasional
strophic correspondence, its general independence of the action of
the tale, and its difficulty as compared with the other passages,
may be compared very closely to a Greek "chorus."

   Few of the romances written in prose and verse are entirely without
rhetoric; but some contain very little of it; all the six romances of
                      this character given in the present volume (counting as two the
two versions of "Etain") contain some rhetoric, but there are only
twenty-one such passages in the collection altogether, ten of which
are in one romance, the "Sick-bed of Cuchulain."

                              The present collection is an attempt to give to English readers
some of the oldest romances in English literary forms that seem to
correspond to the literary forms which were used in Irish to produce
the same effect, and has been divided into two parts.

                      The first part contains five separate stories, all of which are
told in the characteristic form of prose and verse: they are the
"Courtship of Etain," the "Boar of Mac Datho," the "Sick-bed of
Cuchulain," the "Death of the Sons of Usnach" (Book of Leinster
version), and the "Combat at the Ford" out of the Book of Leinster
version of the "Tain bo Cuailnge."

                        Two versions are given of the "Courtship of Etain "; and the "Sick-bed
of Cuchulain," as is pointed out in the special preface prefixed
to it, really consists of two independent versions.

                        It was at first intended to add the better-known version of the
"Death of the Sons of Usnach" known as that of the Glenn Masain
MS., but the full translation of this has been omitted, partly to
avoid making the volume too bulky, partly because this version is
readily attainable in a literal form; an extract from it has,
however, been added to the Book of Leinster version for the purpose
of comparison.

                          In the renderings given
                                 of
                               these romances the translation of the prose is nearly literal, but
no attempt has been made to follow the Irish idiom where this idiom
sounds harsh in English; actives have been altered to passive forms
and the reverse, adjectives are sometimes replaced by short sentences
which give the image better in English, pronouns, in which Irish
is very rich, are often replaced by the persons or things indicated,
and common words, like iarom, iarsin, iartain, immorro, and the
like (meaning thereafter, moreover, &c.), have been replaced by
short sentences that refer back to the events indicated by the words.

Nothing has been added to the Irish, except in the Leabhar na h-Uidhri
version of "Etain," where there is a lacuna to be filled up, and there
are no omissions. The translations of the verse and of the rhetoric are,
so far as is possible, made upon similar lines; it was at first intended
to add literal renderings of all the verse passages, but it was found
that to do so would make the volume of an unmanageable size for its
purpose.
Literal renderings of all the verse passages in "Etain," the first of the
tales in volume i., are given in the notes to that story; the
literal renderings of Deirdre's lament in the "Sons of Usnach," and of
two poems in "The Combat at the Ford," are also given in full as specimens,
but in the case of most of the poems reference is made to easily available
literal translations either in English or German:
where the literal rendering adopted differs from that referred to, or where
the poem in question has not before been translated, the literal rendering
has been given in the notes. These examples will, it is believed, give a
fair indication of the relation between my verse translations and the
originals, the deviations from which have been made as small as possible.
The form of four-line verse divided into stanzas has generally been used
to render the passages in four-lined verse in the Irish, the only exception
to this rule being in the verses at the end of the "Boar of Mac Datho":
these are in the nature of a ballad version of the whole story, and have
been rendered in a ballad metre that does not conform to the arrangement
in verses of the original.

The metre of all the Irish four-lined verses in this volume is, except
in two short pieces, a seven-syllabled line, the first two lines usually
rhyming with each other, and the last two similarly rhyming,[FN#4]
in a few cases in the "Boar of Mac Datho" these rhymes are alternate,
and in the extract from the Glenn Masain version of the "Sons of
Usnach" there is a more complicated rhyme system.

It has not been thought necessary to reproduce this metre in all cases,
as to do so would sound too monotonous in English; the metre is, however,
reproduced once at least in each tale except in that of the "Death of
the Sons of Usnach." The eight-lined metre that occurs in five of the
verse passages in the "Combat at the Ford" has in one case been reproduced
exactly, and in another case nearly exactly, but with one syllable added
to each line; the two passages in this romance that are in five-syllabled
lines have been reproduced exactly in the Irish metre, in one case
with the rhyme-system of the original. With the rhetoric greater liberty
has been used; sometimes the original metre has been followed, but
more often not; and an occasional attempt has been made to bring out the
strophic correspondence in the Irish.

[FN#4] An example of this metre is as follows:--
All the elves of Troom seem dead, All their mighty deeds are fled; For
their Hound, who hounds surpassed, Elves have bound in slumber fast.

In the first volume of the collection the presentation has then been made
as near as may be to the form and matter of the Irish; in the second volume,
called "Versified Romances," there is a considerable divergence from the
Irish form but not from its sense. This part includes the five "Tains"
or Cattle-Forays of Fraech, Dartaid, Regamon, Flidais, and Regamna; which
in the originals differ from the five tales in volume i, in that they
include no verse, except for a few lines in Regamna, most of which are
untranslatable. The last four of these are short pieces written in a prose
extremely rapid in its action, and crowded with incident. They are all
expressly named as "fore-tales," remscela, or preludes to the story
of the great war of Cualnge, which is the central event in the Ulster
heroic cycle, and appear suited for rapid prose recitations, which were
apparently as much a feature in ancient as they are in modern Irish.
Such pieces can hardly be reproduced in English prose so as to bring
out their character; they are represented in English by the narrative
ballad, and they have been here rendered in this way.

Literal translations in prose are printed upon the opposite page to the
verse, these translations being much more exact than the translations
in the first volume, as the object in this case is to show the literal
Irish form, not its literal English equivalent, which is in this case the
verse. The "Tain bo Fraich" is also, in a sense, a "fore-tale" to the
Great Raid, but is of a different character to the others. It consists
of two parts, the second of which is not unlike the four that have just
been mentioned, but the first part is of a much higher order, containing
brilliant descriptions, and at least one highly poetic passage although its
Irish form is prose. Fraech has been treated like the other fore-tales,
and rendered in verse with literal prose opposite to the verse for the
purpose of comparison. The notes to all the five Tana in the second volume
accompany the text; in the first volume all the notes to the different
romances are collected together, and placed at the end of the volume. The
second volume also includes a transcript from the facsimile of that part
of the Irish text of the tale of Etain which has not before been published,
together with an interlinear literal translation. It is hoped that this
arrangement may assist some who are not Middle Irish scholars to realise
what the original romances are.

The manuscript authorities for the eleven different romances (counting
as two the two versions of "Etain") are all old; seven are either in the
Leabhar na h-Uidhri, an eleventh-century manuscript, or in the Book of
Leinster, a twelfth-century one; three of the others are in the fourteenth-century
Yellow Book of Lecan, which is often, in the case of texts preserved both
in it and the Leabhar na h-Uidhri, regarded as the better authority of
the two; and the remaining one, the second version of "Etain," is in the
fifteenth-century manuscript known as Egerton, 1782, which gives in an
accurate form so many texts preserved in the older manuscripts
that it is very nearly as good an authority as they.

The sources used in making the translations are also stated in the
special introductions, but it may be mentioned as a summary that the four
"Preludes," the Tana of Dartaid, Regamon, Flidais, and Regamna, are taken
from the text printed with accompanying German translations by Windisch
in Irische Texte, vol. ii.; Windisch's renderings being followed in those
portions of the text that he translates; for the "Tain bo Fraich" and the
"Combat at the Ford" the Irish as given by O'Beirne Crowe and by O'Curry,
with not very trustworthy English translations, has been followed; in the
case of the fragment of the Glenn Masain version of "Deirdre" little
reference has been made to the Irish, the literal translation followed
being that given by Whitley Stokes. The remaining five romances, the
"Boar of Mac Datho," the Leinster version of "Deirdre," the "Sick-bed of
Cuchulain," the Egerton version of "Etain," and the greater part of the
Leabbar na h-Uidhri version of the same, are taken from the Irish text
printed without translation in Irische Texte, vol. i., the end of the Leabhar
na h-Uidhri version omitted by Windisch being taken from the facsimile
of the manuscript published by the Royal Irish Academy.

I have to acknowledge with gratitude many corrections to O'Beirne Crowe's
translation of the "Tain bo Fraich" kindly given me by Professor Kuno
Meyer; in the case of O'Curry's translation of the "Combat at the Ford,"
similar help kindly given me by Mr. E. J.
Quiggin; and in the case of the two versions of "Etain," more especially
for the part taken direct from the facsimile, I have to express gratitude
for the kind and ready help given to me by Professor Strachan. Professor
Strachan has not only revised my transcript from the facsimile, and
supplied me with translations of the many difficult passages in
this of which I could make no sense, but has revised all the
translation which was made by the help of Windisch's glossary to
the Irische Texte of both the versions of "Etain," so that the
translations given of these two romances should be especially
reliable, although of course I may have made some errors which have
escaped Professor Strachan's notice.

     The three other romances which have been translated from the Irish in
     Irische Texte have not been similarly revised, but all passages
     about which there appeared to be doubt have been referred to in the
     notes to the individual romances.
     
     It remains to add some remarks upon the general character of
     the tales, which, as may be seen after a very cursory examination,
are very different both in tone and merit, as might indeed be
expected if we remember that we are probably dealing with the works
of men who were separated from each other by a gap of hundreds of
years.

Those who have read the actual works of the ancient writers of the Irish
romances will not readily indulge in the generalisations about them used
by those to whom the romances are only known by abstracts or a compilation.
Perhaps the least meritorious of those in this collection are the "Tains"
of Dartaid, Regamon, and Flidais, but the tones of these three
stories are very different. Dartaid is a tale of fairy vengeance for a
breach of faith; Flidais is a direct and simple story of a raid like a
Border raid, reminding us of the "riding ballads" of the Scottish Border,
and does not seem to trouble itself much about questions of right or wrong;
Regamon is a merry tale of a foray by boys and girls; it troubles itself
with the rights of the matter even less than Flidais if possible, and is
an example of an Irish tale with what is called in modern times a "good
ending." It may be noted that these last two tales have no trace of the
supernatural element which some suppose that the Irish writers were
unable to dispense with.
in
her mind, and thinks much of my taking so much pleasure from her; which,
indeed, is a fault, though I did not design or foresee it when I went.

5th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, where did a little business with the
Duke of York at our usual attending him, and thence to my wife, who was
with my coach at Unthanke's, though not very well of those upon her, and
so home to dinner, and after dinner I to the Tower, where I find Sir W.
Coventry with abundance of company with him; and after sitting awhile, and
hearing some merry discourse, and, among others, of Mr. Brouncker's being
this day summoned to Sir William Morton, one of the judges, to give in
security for his good behaviour, upon his words the other day to Sir John
Morton, a Parliament-man, at White Hall, who had heretofore spoke very
highly against Brouncker in the House, I away, and to Aldgate, and walked
forward towards White Chapel, till my wife overtook me with the coach, it
being a mighty fine afternoon; and there we went the first time out of
town with our coach and horses, and went as far as Bow, the spring
beginning a little now to appear, though the way be dirty; and so, with
great pleasure, with the fore-part of our coach up, we spent the
afternoon.  And so in the evening home, and there busy at the Office
awhile, and so to bed, mightily pleased with being at peace with my poor
wife, and with the pleasure we may hope to have with our coach this
summer, when the weather comes to be good.

6th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, only before the Office
I stepped to Sir W. Coventry at the Tower, and there had a great deal of
discourse with him; among others, of the King's putting him out of the
Council yesterday, with which he is well contented, as with what else they
can strip him of, he telling me, and so hath long done, that he is weary
and surfeited of business; but he joins with me in his fears that all will
go to naught, as matters are now managed.  He told me the matter of the
play that was intended for his abuse, wherein they foolishly and sillily
bring in two tables like that which he hath made, with a round hole in the
middle, in his closet, to turn himself in; and he is to be in one of them
as master, and Sir J. Duncomb in the other, as his man or imitator: and
their discourse in those tables, about the disposing of their books and
papers, very foolish.  But that, that he is offended with, is his being
made so contemptible, as that any should dare to make a gentleman a
subject for the mirth of the world: and that therefore he had told Tom
Killigrew that he should tell his actors, whoever they were, that did
offer at any thing like representing him, that he would not complain to my
Lord Chamberlain, which was too weak, nor get him beaten, as Sir Charles
Sidly is said to do, but that he would cause his nose to be cut.  He told
me the passage at the Council much like what my Lord Bellassis told me.
He told me how that the Duke of Buckingham did himself, some time since,
desire to join with him, of all men in England, and did bid him propound
to himself to be Chief Minister of State, saying that he would bring it
about, but that he refused to have anything to do with any faction; and
that the Duke of Buckingham did, within these few days, say that, of all
men in England, he would have chosen W. Coventry to have joined entire
with.  He tells me that he fears their prevailing against the Duke of
York; and that their violence will force them to it, as being already
beyond his pardon.  He repeated to me many examples of challenging of
Privy-Councillors and others; but never any proceeded against with that
severity which he is, it never amounting to others to more than a little
confinement.  He tells me of his being weary of the Treasury, and of the
folly, ambition, and desire of popularity of Sir Thomas Clifford; and yet
the rudeness of his tongue and passions when angry.  This and much more
discourse being over I with great pleasure come home and to the office,
where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and thence to the
office again, where very hard at work all the afternoon till night, and
then home to my wife to read to me, and to bed, my cold having been now
almost for three days quite gone from me.  This day my wife made it appear
to me that my late entertainment this week cost me above L12, an expence
which I am almost ashamed of, though it is but once in a great while, and
is the end for which, in the most part, we live, to have such a merry day
once or twice in a man's life.

7th (Lord's day).  Up, and to the office, busy till church time, and then
to church, where a dull sermon, and so home to dinner, all alone with my
wife, and then to even my Journall to this day, and then to the Tower, to
see Sir W. Coventry, who had H. Jermin and a great many more with him, and
more, while I was there, come in; so that I do hear that there was not
less than sixty coaches there yesterday, and the other day; which I hear
also that there is a great exception taken at, by the King and the Duke of
Buckingham, but it cannot be helped.  Thence home, and with our coach out
to Suffolk Street, to see my cozen Pepys, but neither the old nor young at
home.  So to my cozen Turner's, and there staid talking a little, and then
back to Suffolk Street, where they not being yet come home I to White
Hall, and there hear that there are letters come from Sir Thomas Allen,
that he hath made some kind of peace with Algiers; upon which the King and
Duke of York, being to go out of town to-morrow, are met at my Lord
Arlington's: so I there, and by Mr. Wren was desired to stay to see if
there were occasion for their speaking with me, which I did, walking
without, with Charles Porter,

     [Charles Porter "was the son of a prebend[ary] in Norwich, and a
     'prentice boy in the city in the rebellious times.  When the
     committee house was blown up, he was very active in that rising, and
     after the soldiers came and dispersed the rout, he, as a rat among
     joint stools, shifted to and fro among the shambles, and had forty
     pistols shot at him by the troopers that rode after him to kill him
     [24th April, 1648].  In that distress he had the presence of mind to
     catch up a little child that, during the rout, was frighted, and
     stood crying in the streets, and, unobserved by the troopers, ran
     away with it.  The people opened a way for him, saying, ' Make room
     for the poor child.' Thus he got off, and while search was made for
     him in the market-place, got into the Yarmouth ferry, and at
     Yarmouth took ship and went to Holland .  .  .  .  In Holland he
     trailed a pike, and was in several actions as a common soldier.  At
     length he kept a cavalier eating-house; but, his customers being
     needy, he soon broke, and came for England, and being a genteel
     youth, was taken in among the chancery clerks, and got to be under a
     master .  .  .  .  His industry was great; and he had an acquired
     dexterity and skill in the forms of the court; and although he was a
     bon companion, and followed much the bottle, yet he made such
     dispatches as satisfied his clients, especially the clerks, who knew
     where to find him.  His person was florid, and speech prompt and
     articulate.  But his vices, in the way of women and the bottle, were
     so ungoverned, as brought him to a morsel .  .  .  .  When the Lord
     Keeper North had the Seal, who from an early acquaintance had a
     kindness for him which was well known, and also that he was well
     heard, as they call it, business flowed in to him very fast, and yet
     he could scarce keep himself at liberty to follow his business ....
     At the Revolution, when his interest fell from, and his debts began
     to fall upon him, he was at his wits' end ....  His character for
     fidelity, loyalty, and facetious conversation was without
     exception"--Roger North's Lives of the Norths (Lord Keeper
     Guilford), ed.  Jessopp, vol. i., pp. 381-2.  He was originally made
     Lord Chancellor of Ireland in the reign of James II., during the
     viceroyalty of Lord Clarendon, 1686, when he was knighted.  "He
     was," says Burnet, "a man of ready wit, and being poor was thought a
     person fit to be made a tool of.  When Clarendon was recalled,
     Porter was also displaced, and Fitton was made chancellor, a man who
     knew no other law than the king's pleasure" ("Own Time").  Sir
     Charles Porter was again made Lord Chancellor of Ireland in 1690,
     and in this same year he acted as one of the Lords Justices.  This
     note of Lord Braybrooke's is retained and added to, but the
     reference may after all be to another Charles Porter.  See vol.
     iii., p. 122, and vol. vi., p. 98.]

talking of a great many things: and I perceive all the world is against
the Duke of Buckingham his acting thus high, and do prophesy nothing but
ruin from it: But he do well observe that the church lands cannot
certainly come to much, if the King shall [be] persuaded to take them;
they being leased out for long leases.  By and by, after two hours' stay,
they rose, having, as Wren tells me, resolved upon sending six ships to
the Streights forthwith, not being contented with the peace upon the terms
they demand, which are, that all our ships, where any Turks or Moores
shall be found slaves, shall be prizes; which will imply that they, must
be searched.  I hear that to-morrow the King and the Duke of York set out
for Newmarket, by three in the morning; to some foot and horse-races, to
be abroad ten or twelve days: So I away, without seeing the Duke of York;
but Mr. Wren showed me the Order of Council about the balancing the
Storekeeper's accounts, passed the Council in the very terms I drew it,
only I did put in my name as he that presented the book of Hosier's
preparing, and that is left out--I mean, my name--which is no great
matter.  So to my wife to Suffolk Streete, where she was gone, and there I
found them at supper, and eat a little with them, and so home, and there
to bed, my cold pretty well gone.

8th.  Up, and with W. Hewer by hackney coach to White Hall, where the King
and the Duke of York is gone by three in the morning, and had the
misfortune to be overset with the Duke of York, the Duke of Monmouth, and
the Prince, at the King's Gate' in Holborne; and the King all dirty, but
no hurt.  How it come to pass I know not, but only it was dark, and the
torches did not, they say, light the coach as they should do.  I thought
this morning to have seen my Lord Sandwich before he went out of town, but
I come half an hour too late; which troubles me, I having not seen him
since my Lady Palls died.  So W. Hewer and I to the Harp-and-Ball, to
drink my morning draught, having come out in haste; and there met with
King, the Parliament-man, with whom I had some impertinent talk.  And so
to the Privy Seal Office, to examine what records I could find there, for
my help in the great business I am put upon, of defending the present
constitution of the Navy; but there could not have liberty without order
from him that is in present waiting, Mr. Bickerstaffe, who is out of town.
This I did after I had walked to the New Exchange and there met Mr. Moore,
who went with me thither, and I find him the same discontented poor man as
ever.  He tells me that Mr. Shepley is upon being turned away from my
Lord's family, and another sent down, which I am sorry for; but his age
and good fellowship have almost made him fit for nothing. Thence, at
Unthanke's my wife met me, and with our coach to my cozen Turner's and
there dined, and after dinner with my wife alone to the King's playhouse,
and there saw "The Mocke Astrologer," which I have often seen, and but an
ordinary play; and so to my cozen Turner's again, where we met Roger
Pepys, his wife, and two daughters, and there staid and talked a little,
and then home, and there my wife to read to me, my eyes being sensibly
hurt by the too great lights of the playhouse.  So to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up, and to the Tower; and there find Sir W. Coventry alone, writing
down his journal, which, he tells me, he now keeps of the material things;
upon which I told him, and he is the only man I ever told it to, I think,
that I kept it most strictly these eight or ten years; and I am sorry
almost that I told it him, it not being necessary, nor may be convenient
to have it known.  Here he showed me the petition he had sent to the King
by my Lord Keeper, which was not to desire any admittance to employment,
but submitting himself therein humbly to his Majesty; but prayed the
removal of his displeasure, and that he might be set free. He tells me
that my Lord Keeper did acquaint the King with the substance of it, not
shewing him the petition; who answered, that he was disposing of his
employments, and when that was done, he might be led to discharge him: and
this is what he expects, and what he seems to desire.  But by this
discourse he was pleased to take occasion to shew me and read to me his
account, which he hath kept by him under his own hand, of all his
discourse, and the King's answers to him, upon the great business of my
Lord Clarendon, and how he had first moved the Duke of York with it twice,
at good distance, one after another, but without success; shewing me
thereby the simplicity and reasons of his so doing, and the manner of it;
and the King's accepting it, telling him that he was not satisfied in his
management, and did discover some dissatisfaction against him for his
opposing the laying aside of my Lord Treasurer, at Oxford, which was a
secret the King had not discovered.  And really I was mighty proud to be
privy to this great transaction, it giving me great conviction of the
noble nature and ends of Sir W. Coventry in it, and considerations in
general of the consequences of great men's actions, and the uncertainty of
their estates, and other very serious considerations.  From this to other
discourse, and so to the Office, where we sat all the morning, and after
dinner by coach to my cozen Turner's, thinking to have taken the young
ladies to a play; but The. was let blood to-day; and so my wife and I
towards the King's playhouse, and by the way found Betty [Turner], and
Bab., and Betty Pepys staying for us; and so took them all to see
"Claricilla," which do not please me almost at all, though there are some
good things in it.  And so to my cozen Turner's again, and there find my
Lady Mordaunt, and her sister Johnson; and by and by comes in a gentleman,
Mr. Overbury, a pleasant man, who plays most excellently on the
flagelette, a little one, that sounded as low as one of mine, and mighty
pretty.  Hence by and by away, and with my wife, and Bab. and Betty Pepys,
and W. Hewer, whom I carried all this day with me, to my cozen
Stradwick's, where I have not been ever since my brother Tom died, there
being some difference between my father and them, upon the account of my
cozen Scott; and I was glad of this opportunity of seeing them, they being
good and substantial people, and kind, and here met my cozen Roger and his
wife, and my cozen Turner, and here, which I never did before, I drank a
glass, of a pint, I believe, at one draught, of the juice of oranges, of
whose peel they make comfits; and here they drink the juice as wine, with
sugar, and it is very fine drink; but, it being new, I was doubtful
whether it might not do me hurt.  Having staid a while, my wife and I
back, with my cozen Turner, etc., to her house, and there we took our
leaves of my cozen Pepys, who goes with his wife and two daughters for
Impington tomorrow.  They are very good people, and people I love, and am
obliged to, and shall have great pleasure in their friendship, and
particularly in hers, she being an understanding and good woman.  So away
home, and there after signing my letters, my eyes being bad, to supper and
to bed.

10th.  Up, and by hackney-coach to Auditor Beale's Office, in Holborne, to
look for records of the Navy, but he was out of the way, and so forced to
go next to White Hall, to the Privy Seal; and, after staying a little
there, then to Westminster, where, at the Exchequer, I met with Mr.
Newport and Major Halsey; and, after doing a little business with Mr.
Burges, we by water to White Hall, where I made a little stop: and so with
them by coach to Temple Bar, where, at the Sugar Loaf we dined, and W.
Hewer with me; and there comes a companion of theirs, Colonel Vernon, I
think they called him; a merry good fellow, and one that was very plain in
cursing the Duke of Buckingham, and discoursing of his designs to ruin us,
and that ruin must follow his counsels, and that we are an undone people.
To which the others concurred, but not so plain, but all vexed at Sir W.
Coventry's being laid aside: but Vernon, he is concerned, I perceive, for
my Lord Ormond's being laid aside; but their company, being all old
cavaliers, were very pleasant to hear how they swear and talk.  But
Halsey, to my content, tells me that my Lord Duke of Albemarle says that
W. Coventry being gone, nothing will be well done at the Treasury, and I
believe it; but they do all talk as that Duncombe, upon some pretence or
other, must follow him.  Thence to Auditor Beale's, his house and office,
but not to be found, and therefore to the Privy Seale at White Hall,
where, with W. Hewer and Mr. Gibson, who met me at the Temple, I spent the
afternoon till evening looking over the books there, and did find several
things to my purpose, though few of those I designed to find, the books
being kept there in no method at all.  Having done there, we by water
home, and there find my cozen Turner and her two daughters come to see us;
and there, after talking a little, I had my coach ready, and my wife and
I, they going home, we out to White Chapel to take a little ayre, though
yet the dirtiness of the road do prevent most of the pleasure, which
should have been from this tour.  So home, and my wife to read to me till
supper, and to bed.

11th.  Up, and to Sir W. Coventry, to the Tower, where I walked and talked
with him an hour alone, from one good thing to another: who tells me that
he hears that the Commission is gone down to the King, with a blank to
fill, for his place in the Treasury: and he believes it will be filled
with one of our Treasurers of the Navy, but which he knows not, but he
believes it will be Osborne.  We walked down to the Stone Walk, which is
called, it seems, my Lord of Northumberland's walk, being paved by some
one of that title, that was prisoner there: and at the end of it, there is
a piece of iron upon the wall, with, his armes upon it, and holes to put
in a peg, for every turn that they make upon that walk. So away to the
Office, where busy all the morning, and so to dinner, and so very busy all
the afternoon, at my Office, late; and then home tired, to supper, with
content with my wife, and so to bed, she pleasing me, though I dare not
own it, that she hath hired a chambermaid; but she, after many
commendations, told me that she had one great fault, and that was, that
she was very handsome, at which I made nothing, but let her go on; but
many times to-night she took occasion to discourse of her handsomeness,
and the danger she was in by taking her, and that she did doubt yet
whether it would be fit for her, to take her.  But I did assure her of my
resolutions to have nothing to do with her maids, but in myself I was glad
to have the content to have a handsome one to look on.

12th.  Up, and abroad, with my own coach, to Auditor Beale's house, and
thence with W. Hewer to his Office, and there with great content spent all
the morning looking over the Navy accounts of several years, and the
several patents of the Treasurers, which was more than I did hope to have
found there.  About noon I ended there, to my great content, and giving
the clerks there 20s. for their trouble, and having sent for W. Howe to me
to discourse with him about the Patent Office records, wherein I
remembered his brother to be concerned, I took him in my coach with W.
Hewer and myself towards Westminster; and there he carried me to Nott's,
the famous bookbinder, that bound for my Lord Chancellor's library; and
here I did take occasion for curiosity to bespeak a book to be bound, only
that I might have one of his binding.  Thence back to Graye's Inne: and,
at the next door, at a cook's-shop of Howe's acquaintance, we bespoke
dinner, it being now two o'clock; and in the meantime he carried us into
Graye's Inne, to his chamber, where I never was before; and it is very
pretty, and little, and neat, as he was always.  And so, after a little
stay, and looking over a book or two there, we carried a piece of my Lord
Coke with us, and to our dinner, where, after dinner, he read at my desire
a chapter in my Lord Coke about perjury, wherein I did learn a good deal
touching oaths, and so away to the Patent Office; in Chancery Lane, where
his brother Jacke, being newly broke by running in debt, and growing an
idle rogue, he is forced to hide himself; and W. Howe do look after the
Office, and here I did set a clerk to look out some things for me in their
books, while W. Hewer and I to the Crowne Offices where we met with
several good things that I most wanted, and did take short notes of the
dockets, and so back to the Patent Office, and did the like there, and by
candle-light ended.  And so home, where, thinking to meet my wife with
content, after my pains all this day, I find her in her closet, alone, in
the dark, in a hot fit of railing against me, upon some news she has this
day heard of Deb.'s living very fine, and with black spots, and speaking
ill words of her mistress, which with good reason might vex her; and the
baggage is to blame, but, God knows, I know nothing of her, nor what she
do, nor what becomes of her, though God knows that my devil that is within
me do wish that I could.  Yet God I hope will prevent me therein, for I
dare not trust myself with it if I should know it; but, what with my high
words, and slighting it, and then serious, I did at last bring her to very
good and kind terms, poor heart!  and I was heartily glad of it, for I do
see there is no man can be happier than myself, if I will, with her.  But
in her fit she did tell me what vexed me all the night, that this had put
her upon putting off her handsome maid and hiring another that was full of
the small pox, which did mightily vex me, though I said nothing, and do
still.  So down to supper, and she to read to me, and then with all
possible kindness to bed.

13th.  Up, and to the Tower, to see Sir W. Coventry, and with him talking
of business of the Navy, all alone, an hour, he taking physic.  And so
away to the Office, where all the morning, and then home to dinner, with
my people, and so to the Office again, and there all the afternoon till
night, when comes, by mistake, my cozen Turner, and her two daughters,
which love such freaks, to eat some anchovies and ham of bacon with me,
instead of noon, at dinner, when I expected them.  But, however, I had
done my business before they come, and so was in good humour enough to be
with them, and so home to them to supper, and pretty merry, being pleased
to see Betty Turner, which hath something mighty pretty.  But that which
put me in good humour, both at noon and night, is the fancy that I am this
day made a Captain of one of the King's ships, Mr. Wren having this day
sent me, the Duke of York's commission to be Captain of "The Jerzy," in
order to my being of a Court-martiall for examining the loss of "The
Defyance," and other things; which do give me occasion of much mirth, and
may be of some use to me, at least I shall get a little money by it for
the time I have it; it being designed that I must really be a Captain to
be able to sit in this Court.  They staid till about eight at night, and
then away, and my wife to read to me, and then to bed in mighty good
humour, but for my eyes.

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my office with Tom, whom I made to read to
me the books of Propositions in the time of the Grand Commission, which I
did read a good part of before church, and then with my wife to church,
where I did see my milliner's wife come again, which pleased me; but I
durst not be seen to mind her for fear of my wife's seeing me, though the
woman I did never speak twenty words to, and that but only in her
husband's shop.  But so fearful I am of discontenting my wife, or giving
her cause of jealousy.  But here we heard a most excellent good sermon of
Mr. Gifford's, upon the righteousness of Scribes and Pharisees.  So home
to dinner and to work again, and so till dinner, where W. Howe come and
dined with me, and staid and read in my Lord Cooke upon his chapter of
perjury again, which pleased me, and so parted, and I to my office, and
there made an end of the books of Propositions, which did please me
mightily to hear read, they being excellently writ and much to the
purpose, and yet so as I think I shall make good use of his defence of our
present constitution.  About four o'clock took coach to visit my cozen
Turner, and I out with her to make a visit, but the lady she went to see
was abroad.  So back and to talk with her and her daughters, and then
home, and she and I to walk in the garden, the first time this year, the
weather being mighty temperate; and then I to write down my Journall for
the last week, my eyes being very bad, and therefore I forced to find a
way to use by turns with my tube, one after another, and so home to supper
and to bed.  Before I went from my office this night I did tell Tom my
resolution not to keep him after Jane was gone, but shall do well by him,
which pleases him; and I think he will presently marry her, and go away
out of my house with her.

15th.  Up, and by water with W. Hewer to the Temple; and thence to the
Rolls, where I made inquiry for several rolls, and was soon informed in
the manner of it: and so spent the whole morning with W. Hewer, he taking
little notes in short-hand, while I hired a clerk there to read to me
about twelve or more several rolls which I did call for: and it was great
pleasure to me to see the method wherein their rolls are kept; that when
the Master of the Office, one Mr. Case, do call for them, who is a man
that I have heretofore known by coming to my Lord of Sandwich's, he did
most readily turn to them.  At noon they shut up; and W. Hewer and I did
walk to the Cocke, at the end of Suffolke Streete, where I never was, a
great ordinary, mightily cried up, and there bespoke a pullett; which
while dressing, he and I walked into St. James's Park, and thence back,
and dined very handsome, with a good soup, and a pullet, for 4s. 6d.  the
whole.  Thence back to the Rolls, and did a little more business: and so
by water to White Hall, whither.  I went to speak with Mr. Williamson,
that if he hath any papers relating to the Navy I might see them, which he
promises me: and so by water home, with great content for what I have this
day found, having got almost as much as I desire of the history of the
Navy, from 1618 to 1642, when the King and Parliament fell out.  Findabar,
Maev's lovely child, With her form thy sense beguiled:

Brightly though her beauty glows, She no love on thee bestows.

Wouldst thou win the prize they bring, Findabar, the child of king?
Many ere now that maid could cheat Here, like thee, their wounds to meet.

Thou hast sworn, and plighted. troth, Ne'er to fight me: keep thine
oath:
Friendship's tie thee firm should hold, Come not nigh me, champion bold.

Fifty chiefs, who sought that maid, Fought me, fell, in earth are laid;
Well I know that tempting bait, All have found, and earned their
fate.

Ferbay fell, though bold his boast, Him obeyed a valiant host; Quickly
here his rage I stilled; Cast my spear but once, and killed.

Cruel fate Srub Darry slew, Tales of hundred dames he knew; Great his fame
in days of yore; Silver none, 'twas gold he wore.

Though that maid, whom Erin's best Hope to gain, my heart would charm; South
and north, and east and west I would keep thee safe from harm.

"And, O my friend Ferdia!"

     said Cuchulain "this is the cause why it was not thy part to come
     here to the combat and the fight with me. It is because that
     when with Scathach, with Uathach, and with Aife we abode, it was
     the custom with us that together we should go to every battle, and
     to every field of battle; to every fight and to every skirmish; to
     every forest and to all wildernesses; to all things dark and
     difficult."

These were the words of his speech, and it was in that place that he recited
these staves:

Tuned our hearts were beating, We, where chiefs were meeting, Brotherly
went: when slumbering One was our couch: we sought Fierce fights, and
fought.
Oft in woods that are far away Joined we stood in our skilful play;
Scathach our feats had taught.

And Ferdia replied to him thus:

O Cuchulain! for beautiful feats renowned, Though together we learned
our skill; Though thou tellest of friendship that once we found, From me
shall come first thine ill; Ah, recall not the time of our friendship's
day:
It shall profit thee nothing, O Hound, I say.

"For too long now have we thus waited," said Ferdia; "tell me now
O Cuchulain!

to what weapons shall we resort?" "Thou hast the choice of the weapons till
the night," said Cuchulain, "because thou wert the first to reach the Ford."
"Hast thou any remembrance," said Ferdia, "of the weapons for casting,
that we were accustomed to practise the use of when we were with Scathach,
with Uathach, and with Aife?" "I do indeed remember them," said
Cuchulain." "If thou rememberest them, let us resort to them now,"
said Ferdia. Then they resorted to their weapons used for the casting.
They took up two shields for defence, with devices emblazoned upon
them, and their eight shields with sharp edges such that they could hurl,
and their eight javelins, and their eight ivory-hilted dirks, and their
eight little darts for the fight.
To and fro from one to the other, like bees upon a sunny day, flew the
weapons, and there was no cast that they threw that did not hit. Each
of them then continued to shoot at the other with their weapons for
casting, from the dawn of the morning to the full middle of the day, until
all of their weapons had been blunted against the faces and the
bosses of their shields; and although their casting was most
excellent, yet so good was the defence that neither of them wounded
the other nor drew the other's blood during all that time.

"Cease now from these feats, O Cuchulain!" said Ferdia, "for it is not by
means of these that the struggle between us shall come." "Let us cease
indeed," said Cuchulain, "if the time for ceasing hath arrived." And
they ceased from their casting, and they threw the weapons they had used
for it into the hands of their charioteers.

"To what weapons shall we next resort, O Cuchulain?" said Ferdia.

"Thou hast the choice of weapons until the night," said Cuchulain, "because
thou wert the first to reach the Ford." "Then," said Ferdia, "let us
turn to our straight, well-trimmed, hard, and polished casting-spears
with tough cords of flax upon them." "Let us do so indeed," said
Cuchulain. Then they took two stout shields of defence, and they turned
to their straight, well-trimmed, hard, and polished casting-spears
with the tough cords of flax upon them, and each of them continued to hurl
his spears at the other from the middle of midday until the ninth hour
of the evening: and though the defence was most excellent that each of
them made, yet so good was the casting of the spears that each of them
wounded the other at that time, and drew red blood from him. "Let us
desist from this now, O Cuchulain!" said Ferdia. "Let us desist indeed,"
said Cuchulain, "if the time has come."
They ceased, and they threw away their weapons into their charioteers'
hands; and each of them at the end of that fight sought the other,
and each threw his arms about the other's neck, and gave him three
kisses.

Their horses were in the same paddock that night, the men who had driven
their chariots sat by the same fire, moreover the charioteers of both
those warriors spread couches of fresh rushes for the two, and supplied
them with such pillows as are needed by wounded men. And such folk as can
heal and cure came to heal and to cure them, and they applied soothing
and salving herbs and plants to their bruises, and their cuts, and their
gashes, and to all their many wounds. And of every soothing and salving
herb and plant that was brought for the bruises, the cuts, and the
gashes, and all the wounds of Cuchulain, he used to send an equal portion
westward across the ford to Ferdia, so that in case Ferdia fell at
his hand the men of Ireland should not be able to say that it was owing
to superiority in leech-craft that he had done it. And of each kind
of food, and of pleasant, palatable, intoxicating drink that the men of
Ireland brought to Ferdia, he would send a fair half northward across the
ford to Cuchulain; for the men who provided food for Ferdia were more
in number than they who provided food for Cuchulain. All the army of
the men of Ireland helped to provide Ferdia with food, because he was
their champion to defend them against Cuchulain; yet to Cuchulain also
food was brought by the people who dwell in the Breg. And it was the
custom with these that they came to converse with him at the dusk of
each night.

Thus they remained that night, but early in the morning they arose, and
repaired to the Ford of Combat. "What weapons shall we turn to to-day, O
Ferdia?" said Cuchulain. "Thou hast the choice of weapons until the night,"
answered Ferdia, "because it is I who had my choice of them in the day
that is past." "Let us then," said Cuchulain, "resort to our great,
broad-bladed, heavy spears this day, for nearer shall we be to our battle
by the thrusting of our spears this day than we were by the throwing weapons
of yesterday: let our horses be harnessed for us, and our chariots yoked,
that upon this day from our chariots and our horses we may fight." "Let us
turn to these indeed," said Ferdia. They then took to them two exceedingly
stout, broad shields, and they resorted to their great, broad-bladed, heavy
spears that day. And each of them continued to thrust at, and to pierce
through, and to redden, and to tear the body of the other from the
dawn of the morning until the ninth hour of the evening; and if it were
the custom for birds in their flight to pass through the bodies of men,
they could have passed through the bodies of those warriors that day,
carrying with them pieces of their flesh from their wounds into the clouds
and to the sky around them. So when the ninth hour of the evening was
come, the horses were weary, and the charioteers were weak; and they
themselves, champions and heroes of valour as they were, had themselves
become weary; and "Let us cease now from this, O Ferdia!" said Cuchulain,
"for our horses are weary, and our charioteers are weak; and now that these
are weary, why should not we be weary too?" and then it was that he
sang this stave:

Not like Fomorians, men of the sea, Stubborn, unending our struggle should
be; Now that the clamour of combat must cease, Quarrels forget, and
between us be peace.

Let us cease now indeed," said Ferdia, "if the time for it hath come." They
ceased, and they threw away their weapons into their charioteers' hands,
and each of them at the end of that fight sought the other, and each
threw his arms about the other's neck, and gave him three kisses.
Their horses were in the same paddock that night, the men who had driven
their chariots sat by the same fire, moreover the charioteers of
both those warriors spread couches of fresh rushes for the two, and
supplied them with such pillows as are needed by wounded men. And such
folk as can heal and cure came to examine into their wounds and to tend
them that night, for they could do nothing more for them, so
severe and so deadly were the stabs and the thrusts, and the gashes of the
many wounds that they had, than to apply to them spells and incantations
and charms, in order to staunch their blood, and their bleeding mortal
wounds. And for every spell and incantation and charm that was applied to
the stabs and the wounds of Cuchulain, he sent a full half westward across
the ford to Ferdia; and of each kind of food, and of pleasant, palatable,
intoxicating drink that the men of Ireland brought to Ferdia, he sent a
half across the ford to Cuchulain, in the north. For the men who brought
food to Ferdia were more in number than they who brought food to Cuchulain,
for all the army of the men of Ireland helped to provide Ferdia with food,
because he was their champion to defend them against Cuchulain; yet
to Cuchulain also food was brought by the people who dwell in the Breg.
And it was the custom with these that they came to converse with him at the
dusk of each night.

Thus they rested that night: but early in the morning they arose,
and repaired to the Ford of Combat; and Cuchulain saw that an evil
look and a lowering cloud was on the face of Ferdia that day.

"Ill dost thou appear to me to-day, O Ferdia!" said Cuchulain. "Thy hair
hath been darkened to-day, and thine eye hath been dimmed, and the form
and the features and the visage that thou art wont to have are gone from
thee." "'Tis from no fear or from terror of thee that I am what I am
to-day," said Ferdia, "for there is not in Ireland to-day a champion
that I am not able to subdue." And Cuchulain complained and lamented,
and he spoke the words that follow, and thus did Ferdia reply:

Cuchulain
Is't indeed Ferdia's face?[FN#57] Sure his meed is dire disgrace; He, to
war by woman led, Comes his comrade's blood to shed.

[FN#57] The metre is that of the Irish.

Ferdia
Thou who warrior art indeed, Champion tried! who wounds dost breed, I am
forced the sod to see Where my final grave shall be.

Cuchulain
Maev her daughter, Findabar, Who all maids excelleth far, Gave thee, not
at love's behest, She thy kingly might would test.

Ferdia
Gently ruling Hound, I know That was tested long ago; None so great is known
to fame, None, till now, to match it came.

Cuchulain
All that's chanced from thee hath sprung, Darry's grandchild, Daman's
son; Woman's hest hath brought thee here Swords to test with comrade
dear.

Ferdia
Comrade! had I fled, nor found Fight with thee, fair graceful Hound, Maev
my word could broken call; Croghan hold my fame but small.

Cuchulain
None put meat his lips between, None to king or stainless queen Yet was born,
whose praise I'd gain, None whose scorn would win thy pain.

Ferdia
Thou who deep in wars dost wade, 'Twas not thou, 'twas Maev betrayed:
Back with conquest shalt thou ride, Fault hast none thy fame to hide.

Cuchulain
Clots of blood my faithful heart Choke; my soul is like to part:
'Tis with little force my arm Strikes, to do Ferdia harm!

"Greatly although thou makest complaint against me to-day," said Ferdia,
"tell me to what arms shall we resort?" Thine is the choice of weapons
until the night," said Cuchulain, "because it was I who had the choice in
the day that is past." "Then," said Ferdia, "let us this day
take to our heavy hard-smiting swords; for sooner shall we attain to the
end of our strife by the edge of the sword this day than we did by the
thrusts of our spears in the day that is gone." "Let us do so indeed,"
said Cuchulain. That day they took upon them two long and exceedingly great
shields, and they resorted to their heavy and hard-striking swords. And
each of them began to hew, and to cut, and to slaughter, and to destroy
till larger than the head of a month-old child were the masses and the
gobbets of flesh which each of them cut from the shoulders and the thighs
and the shoulder-blades of his foe.

After this fashion did each of them hew at each other from the dawn of the
day until the ninth hour of the even, and then Ferdia said, "Let us
desist from this now, O Cuchulain!" "Let us cease indeed," said
Cuchulain, "if the time has come."
They ceased from their strife, and they threw from them their arms into
the hands of their charioteers. Pleasant and cheerful and joyous was
the meeting of the two: mournfully, and sorrowfully, and unhappily
did they part from each other that night. Their horses were not in
the same paddock, their charioteers were not at the same fire, and there
they stayed for that night.

It was early in the morning when Ferdia arose, and he advanced alone
towards the Ford of Combat. Well did he know that the battle and the
conflict would be decided that day; that upon that day and in that place
one of the two would fall or that both would fall. And then, before
Cuchulain could come, Ferdia put on the armour that he was to use for that
battle in the conflict and fight. And this was the battle armour that
he used for that conflict and fight; he put a kilt of striped silk, bordered
with spangles of gold, next to his white skin, and over that he put his
well-sewn apron of brown leather to protect the lower part of his body.
Upon his belly he put a great stone as large as a millstone, and over that
great stone as large as a millstone he put his firm deep apron of purified
iron, on account of the fear and the dread that he had of the Gae-Bulg
that day. And his crested helmet that he used for battle and conflict and
fight he put upon his head:
there were upon it four jewels of carbuncle, each one of them fit
to adorn it: also it was studded with enamels, with crystals, with
carbuncles, and with blazing rubies that had come from the East.

Into his right hand he took his death-dealing sharp-pointed strong
spear; upon his left side he hung his curved sword of battle with its
golden hilt and its pommels of red gold: upon the slope of his back he
took his great and magnificent shield with great bosses upon it: fifty
was the number of the bosses, and upon each of them could be supported
a full-grown hog: moreover in the centre of the shield was a great boss
of red gold. Upon that day Ferdia displayed many noble, rapidly changing,
wonderful feats of arms on high; feats which he had never learned from
any other, either from his nurse or his tutor, or from Scathach, or from
Uathach, or from Aife, but which he himself invented that day for his
battle with Cuchulain.

And Cuchulain approached the ford, and he saw the many, rapidly changing,
wonderful feats that Ferdia displayed on high; and "O my friend Laeg!"
said Cuchulain, "I mark those noble, rapidly changing, wonderful feats
which Ferdia displays, and I know that all of those feats will in turn
be tried upon me; and for this reason if it be I who begin to go backwards
this day, let it be thy part to rouse me by reproaches, and by evil speech,
so that my rage and my wrath may be kindled, and increase. And if it be I
that shall prevail, then do thou give to me praise and approval; and speak
good words tome, that my courage may be the greater." "This indeed will
I do, O Cuchulain!" said Laeg.

Then did Cuchulain put on his battle armour that he used for the combat
and fight. And that day he displayed noble, many-changing, wonderful, and
many feats that he had learned from none: neither from Scathach, from
Uathach, or from Aife. And Ferdia marked those feats, and he know that
each in turn would be tried upon him.

"O Ferdia!" said Cuchulain, "tell me to what arms we shall resort?

"Thine is the choice of weapons until the night," said Ferdia.
"Then," said Cuchulain, "let us try the Feat of the Ford."[FN#58]
"Let us do so indeed," said Ferdia; but although he thus spoke, it
was with sorrow that he consented, for he knew that Cuchulain had
ever destroyed every hero and champion who had contended with him
at the Feat of the Ford.
[FN#58] i.e. in which all weapons were allowed.
Mighty were the deeds that were done upon that day at the ford by
those two heroes, the champions of the west of Europe; by those two
hands which in the north-west of the world were those that best
bestowed bounty, and pay, and reward; those twin loved pillars of
valour of the Gael; those two keys of the bravery of the Gaels,
brought to fight from afar, owing to the urging and the intermeddling
of Ailill and Maev.
From the dawn till the middle of the day, each began to shoot at
the other with his massive weapons; and when midday had come, the
wrath of the two men became more furious, and each drew nearer to
the other.
And then upon a time Cuchulain sprang from the shore of the ford,
and he lit upon the boss of the shield of Ferdia the son of Daman,
the son of Dare, to strike at his head from above, over the rim of
his shield.
And then it was that Ferdia gave the shield a blow of his left
elbow, and he cast Cuchulain from him like a bird, till he came
down again, upon the shore of the ford. And again Cuchulain sprang
from the shore of the ford, till he lit upon the boss of the shield
of Ferdia the son of Daman, the son of Dare, to strike his head
from above, over the rim of the shield. And Ferdia, gave the shield
a stroke of his left knee, and he cast Cuchulain from him like a
little child, till he came down on the shore of the ford.
Laeg saw what had been done. "Ah!" said Laeg, "the warrior who is
against thee, casts thee away as a loose woman casts her child; he
flings thee as high as the river flings its foam; he grinds thee
even as a mill would grind fresh malt; pierces thee as the axe would
pierce the oak that it fells; binds thee as the woodbine binds the
tree; darts upon thee even as the hawk darts upon little birds, so
that never until time and life shall end, shalt thou have a call,
or right, or claim for prowess or for valour: thou little fairy
phantom!" said Laeg. Up sprang Cuchulain, swift as the wind; quick
as the swallow; fiery as the dragon; powerful as the lion; and he
bounded into the air for the third time into the troubled clouds
of it, until he lit upon the boss of the shield of Ferdia, the son
of Daman, striving to strike his head from above, over the rim of
the shield. And the warrior shook his shield, and he threw Cuchulain
from him, into the middle of the ford, just as if he had never been
cast off at all.
And then for the first time the countenance of Cuchulain was changed,
and he rose in his full might, as if the air had entered into him,
till he towered as a terrible and wonderful giant, with the hero-light
playing about his head; rising as a wild man of the sea; that great
and valiant champion, till he overtopped Ferdia. And now so closely
were they locked in the fight, that their heads met above them, and
their feet below them; and in their middles met their arms over the
rims and the bosses of their shields. So closely were they locked
in the fight, that they turned and bent, and shivered their spears
from the points to the hafts; and cleft and loosened their shields
from the centres to the rims. So closely were they locked, that the
Bocanachs, and the Bananachs, and the wild people of the glens, and
the demons of the air screamed from the rims of their shields, and
from the hilts of their swords, and from the hafts of their spears.
And so closely did they fight, that they cast the river from its
bed and its course, so that there might have been a couch fit for
a king and a queen to he in, there in the midst of the ford, for
there was no drop of water left in it, except such as fell therein
from off those two heroes and champions, as they trampled and hewed
at each other in the midst of the ford. And so fierce was their
fight, that the horses of the Gaels, in fear and in terror, rushed
away wildly and madly, bursting their chains, and their yokes, and
their tethers, and their traces; and the women, and the common folk,
and the followers of the camp, fled south-westwards out of the
camp.
All this time they fought with the edges of their swords. And then
it was that Ferdia found Cuchulain for a moment off his guard, and
he struck him with the straight edge of his sword, so that it sank
into his body, till the blood streamed to his girdle, and the soil
of the ford was crimson with the blood that fell from the body of
that warrior so valiant in fight.Thence to Maydstone, which I had a mighty mind to
see, having never been there; and walked all up and down the town, and up
to the top of the steeple, and had a noble view, and then down again: and
in the town did see an old man beating of flax, and did step into the barn
and give him money, and saw that piece of husbandry which I never saw, and
it is very pretty: in the street also I did buy and send to our inne, the
Bell, a dish of fresh fish.  And so, having walked all round the town, and
found it very pretty, as most towns I ever saw, though not very big, and
people of good fashion in it, we to our inne to dinner, and had a good
dinner; and after dinner a barber come to me, and there trimmed me, that I
might be clean against night, to go to Mrs. Allen.  And so, staying till
about four o'clock, we set out, I alone in the coach going and coming; and
in our way back, I 'light out of the way to see a Saxon monument,

     [Kits-Cotty House, a cromlech in Aylesford parish, Kent, on a
     hillside adjacent to the river Medway, three and a half miles N. by
     W. of Maidstone.  It consists of three upright stones and an
     overlying one, and forms a small chamber open in front.  It is
     supposed to have been the centre of a group of monuments indicating
     the burial-place of the Belgian settlers in this part of Britain.
     Other stones of a similar character exist in the neighbourhood.]

as they say, of a King, which is three stones standing upright, and a
great round one lying on them, of great bigness, although not so big as
those on Salisbury Plain; but certainly it is a thing of great antiquity,
and I mightily glad to see it; it is near to Aylesford, where Sir John
Bankes lives.  So homeward, and stopped again at Captain Allen's, and
there 'light, and sent the coach and Gibson home, and I and Coney staid;
and there comes to us Mrs. Jowles, who is a very fine, proper lady, as
most I know, and well dressed.  Here was also a gentleman, one Major
Manly, and his wife, neighbours; and here we staid, and drank, and talked,
and set Coney and him to play while Mrs. Jowles and I to talk, and there
had all our old stories up, and there I had the liberty to salute her
often, and pull off her glove, where her hand mighty moist, and she mighty
free in kindness to me, and je do not at all doubt that I might have had
that that I would have desired de elle had I had time to have carried her
to Cobham, as she, upon my proposing it, was very willing to go, for elle
is a whore, that is certain, but a very brave and comely one.  Here was a
pretty cozen of hers come in to supper also, of a great fortune,
daughter-in-law to this Manly, mighty pretty, but had now such a cold, she
could not speak.  Here mightily pleased with Mrs. Jowles, and did get her
to the street door, and there to her su breasts, and baiser her without
any force, and credo that I might have had all else, but it was not time
nor place.  Here staid till almost twelve at night, and then with a
lanthorn from thence walked over the fields, as dark as pitch, and mighty
cold, and snow, to Chatham, and Mr. Coney with great kindness to me: and
there all in bed before I come home, and so I presently to bed.

25th.  Up, and by and by, about eight o'clock, come Rear-Admiral
Kempthorne and seven Captains more, by the Duke of York's order, as we
expected, to hold the Court-martiall about the loss of "The Defyance;" and
so presently we by boat to "The Charles," which lies over against Upnor
Castle, and there we fell to the business; and there I did manage the
business, the Duke of York having, by special order, directed them to take
the assistance of Commissioner Middleton and me, forasmuch as there might
be need of advice in what relates to the government of the ships in
harbour.  And so I did lay the law open to them, and rattle the Master
Attendants out of their wits almost; and made the trial last till seven at
night, not eating a bit all the day; only when we had done examination,
and I given my thoughts that the neglect of the Gunner of the ship was as
great as I thought any neglect could be, which might by the law deserve
death, but Commissioner Middleton did declare that he was against giving
the sentence of death, we withdrew, as not being of the Court, and so left
them to do what they pleased; and, while they were debating it, the
Boatswain of the ship did bring us out of the kettle a piece of hot salt
beef, and some brown bread and brandy; and there we did make a little
meal, but so good as I never would desire to eat better meat while I live,
only I would have cleaner dishes.  By and by they had done, and called us
down from the quarterdeck; and there we find they do sentence that the
Gunner of "The Defyance" should stand upon "The Charles" three hours with
his fault writ upon his breast, and with a halter about his neck, and so
be made incapable of any office.  The truth is, the man do seem, and is, I
believe, a good man; but his neglect, in trusting a girl to carry fire
into his cabin, is not to be pardoned. This being done, we took boat and
home; and there a good supper was ready for us, which should have been our
dinner.  The Captains, desirous to be at London, went away presently for
Gravesend, to get thither by this night's tide; and so we to supper, it
having been a great snowy and mighty cold, foul day; and so after supper
to bed.

26th.  Up, and with Middleton all the morning at the Docke, looking over
the storehouses and Commissioner Pett's house, in order to Captain Cox's
coming to live there in his stead, as Commissioner.  But it is a mighty
pretty house; and pretty to see how every thing is said to be out of
repair for this new man, though L10 would put it into as good condition in
every thing as it ever was in, so free every body is of the King's money.
By and by to Mr. Wilson's, and there drank, but did not see his wife, nor
any woman in the yard, and so to dinner at the Hill-House; and after
dinner, till eight at night, close, Middleton and I, examining the
business of Mr. Pett, about selling a boat, and we find him a very knave;
and some other quarrels of his, wherein, to justify himself, he hath made
complaints of others.  This being done, we to supper, and so to talk,
Commissioner Middleton being mighty good company upon a journey, and so to
bed, thinking how merry my people are at this time, putting Tom and Jane
to bed, being to have been married this day, it being also my feast for
my being cut of the stone, but how many years I do not remember, but I
think it to be about ten or eleven.

27th.  Up, and did a little business, Middleton and I, then; after
drinking a little buttered ale, he and Huchinson and: I took coach, and,
exceeding merry in talk, to Dartford: Middleton finding stories of his own
life at Barbadoes, and up and down at Venice, and elsewhere, that are
mighty pretty, and worth hearing; and he is a strange good companion, and;
droll upon the road, more than ever I could have thought to have been in
him.  Here we dined and met Captain Allen of Rochester, who dined with us,
and so went on his journey homeward, and we by and by took coach again and
got home about six at night, it being all the morning as cold, snowy,
windy, and rainy day, as any in the whole winter past, but pretty clear in
the afternoon.  I find all well, but my wife abroad with Jane, who was
married yesterday, and I to the office busy, till by and by my wife comes
home, and so home, and there hear how merry they were yesterday, and I
glad at it, they being married, it seems, very handsomely, at Islington;
and dined at the old house, and lay in our blue chamber, with much
company, and wonderful merry.  The Turner and Mary Batelier bridesmaids,
and Talbot Pepys and W. Hewer bridesmen.  Anon to supper and to bed, my
head a little troubled with the muchness of the business I have upon me at
present.  So to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Lay long talking with pleasure with my wife, and so up
and to the Office with Tom, who looks mighty smug upon his marriage, as
Jane also do, both of whom I did give joy, and so Tom and I at work at the
Office all the morning, till dinner, and then dined, W. Batelier with us;
and so after dinner to work again, and sent for Gibson, and kept him also
till eight at night, doing much business.  And so, that being done, and my
journal writ, my eyes being very bad, and every day worse and worse, I
fear: but I find it most certain that stronge drinks do make my eyes sore,
as they have done heretofore always; for, when I was in the country, when
my eyes were at the best, their stronge beere would make my eyes sore: so
home to supper, and by and by to bed.

29th.  Up, and by water to White Hall; and there to the Duke of York, to
shew myself, after my journey to Chatham, but did no business to-day with
him: only after gone from him, I to Sir T. Clifford's; and there, after an
hour's waiting, he being alone in his closet, I did speak with him, and
give him the account he gave me to draw up, and he did like it very well:
and then fell to talk of the business of the Navy and giving me good
words, did fall foul of the constitution [of the Board], and did then
discover his thoughts, that Sir J. Minnes was too old, and so was Colonel
Middleton, and that my Lord Brouncker did mind his mathematics too much.
I did not give much encouragement to that of finding fault with my
fellow-officers; but did stand up for the constitution, and did say that
what faults there were in our Office would be found not to arise from the
constitution, but from the failures of the officers in whose hands it was.
This he did seem to give good ear to; but did give me of myself very good
words, which pleased me well, though I shall not build upon them any
thing.  Thence home; and after dinner by water with Tom down to Greenwich,
he reading to me all the way, coming and going, my collections out of the
Duke of York's old manuscript of the Navy, which I have bound up, and do
please me mightily.  At Greenwich I come to Captain Cocke's, where the
house full of company, at the burial of James Temple, who, it seems, hath
been dead these five days here I had a very good ring, which I did give my
wife as soon as I come home.  I spent my time there walking in the garden,
talking with James Pierce, who tells me that he is certain that the Duke
of Buckingham had been with his wenches all the time that he was absent,
which was all the last week, nobody knowing where he was.  The great talk
is of the King's being hot of late against Conventicles, and to see
whether the Duke of Buckingham's being returned will turn the King, which
will make him very popular: and some think it is his plot to make the King
thus, to shew his power in the making him change his mind.  But Pierce did
tell me that the King did certainly say, that he that took one stone from
the Church, did take two from his Crown. By and by the corpse come out;
and I, with Sir Richard Browne and Mr. Evelyn, in their coach to the
church, where Mr. Plume preached.  But I, in the midst of the sermon, did
go out, and walked all alone, round to Deptford, thinking para have seen
the wife of Bagwell, which I did at her door, but I could not conveniently
go into her house, and so lost my labour: and so to the King's Yard, and
there my boat by order met me; and home, where I made my boy to finish the
my manuscript, and so to supper and to bed my new chamber-maid, that comes
in the room of Jane; is come, Jane and Tom lying at their own lodging this
night: the new maid's name is Matt, a proper and very comely maid .  .  .
This day also our cook-maid Bridget went away, which I was sorry for;
but, just at her going she was found to be a thief, and so I was the less
trouble for it; but now our whole house will, in a manner, be new which,
since Jane is gone, I am not at all sorry for, for that my late
differences with my wife about poor Deb. will not be remembered.  So to
bed after supper, and to sleep with great content.

30th.  Up, and to Sir W. Very hot baths are also inadvisable; but pleasantly
warm baths, taken at such frequency as found to be of benefit to the
individual, relax the peripheral circulation relieve the tension of the
internal vessels, lessen the work of the heart, and promote healthy secretion
of the skin, the skin of arteriosclerotic patients often being dry. This
dry skin is especially frequent if there is any kidney insufficiency,
which so soon and so readily becomes a part of the arteriosclerotic
process.

If the patient is old, small doses of alcohol may act physiologically for
good. In these arteriosclerotic patients the activities of alcohol should
be considered from the drug point of view, not from that of all intoxicating
beverage. Other drugs are considered in the discussion of
hypertension.

If the heart actually fails, the treatment becomes that of chronic myocarditis
and of dilatation.

Not infrequently in sclerosis of the arteries, especially of the coronary
arteries, the blood pressure is not high, but low, and the heart is
insufficient. In such patients cardiac tonics may be considered, but they
must be used with great care. Digitalis may be needed, but it should
be tried in small doses. It often makes a heart with arteriosclerosis have
severe anginal attacks. On the other hand, if the heart pangs or heart
aches and the sluggish circulation are due to myocardial weakness
without much actual degeneration, digitalis may be of marked benefit.

The value of digitalis in doubtful instances will be evidenced by an improved
circulation in the extremities, a feeling of general warmth instead of
chilliness and cold, an increased output of urine, and less breathlessness
on slight exertion.

ANGINA PECTORIS
This is a name applied to pain in the region of the heart caused by a
disturbance in the heart itself. Heart pains and heart aches from various
kinds of insufficiency of the heart, or heart weakness, are not exactly
what is understood by angina pectoris. It is largely an occurrence
in patients beyond the age of 30, and most frequently occurs after
50, although attacks between the ages of 40 and 50 are becoming
more frequent. It is a disturbance of the heart which most frequently
attacks men, probably more than three fourths of all cases of this
disease occurring in men; in a large majority of the cases the
coronary arteries are diseased.
Various pains which are not true angina pectoris occur in the left
side of the chest; these have been called pseudo-anginas.At the
Committee, this morning, my Lord Middleton declares at last his being
ready to go, as soon as ever money can be made ready to pay the garrison:
and so I have orders to get money, but how soon I know not.  Thence home,
and there find Mr Sheres, for whom I find my moher of late to talk with
mighty kindness; and particularly he hath shewn himself to be a poet, and
that she do mightily value him for.  He did not stay to dine with us, but
we to dinner; and then, in the afternoon, my wife being very well dressed
by her new maid, we abroad, to make a visit to Mrs. Pickering; but she
abroad again, and so we never yet saw her.  Thence to Dancre's, and there,
saw our pictures which are in doing; and I did choose a view of Rome
instead of Hampton Court; and mightily pleased I shall be in them. Here
were Sir Charles Cotterell and his son bespeaking something; both
ingenious men.  Thence my wife and I to the Park; and pretty store of
company; and so home with great content the month, my mind in pretty good
content for all things, but the designs on foot to bring alterations in
the Office, which troubles me.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Broken sort of people, that have not much to lose
     But so fearful I am of discontenting my wife
     By her wedding-ring, I suppose he hath married her at last
     Have not much to lose, and therefore will venture all
     His satisfaction is nothing worth, it being easily got
     Nor was there any pretty woman that I did see, but my wife
     With egg to keep off the glaring of the light


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                               APRIL & MAY
                                  1669

April 1st.  Up, and with Colonel Middleton, at the desire of Rear-Admiral
Kempthorne, the President, for our assisting them, to the Court-martiall
on board a yacht in the River here, to try the business of the Purser's
complaints, Baker against Trevanion, his Commander, of "The Dartmouth."
But, Lord! to see what wretched doings there were among all the Commanders
to ruin the Purser, and defend the Captain in all his rogueries, be it to
the prejudice of the King or Purser, no good man could bear!  I confess I
was pretty high, which did not at least the young gentlemen Commander
like; and Middleton did the like.  But could not bring it to any issue
this day, sitting till two o'clock; and therefore we being sent for, went
to Sir W. Pen's by invitation to dine; where my wife was, and my Lord
Brouncker and his mistress, and Sir J. Minnes and his niece; and here a
bad dinner, and little mirth, I being little pleased with my host.
However, I made myself sociable; and so, after dinner, my wife and I, with
my Lord Brouncker and his mistress, they set us down at my cozen Turner's,
and there we staid awhile and talked; and particularly here we met with
Dr. Ball, the Parson of the Temple, who did tell me a great many pretty
stories about the manner of the Parsons being paid for their preaching at
Paul's heretofore, and now, and the ground of the Lecture, and heretofore
the names of the founders thereof, which were many, at some 5s., some 6s.
per annum towards it: and had their names read in the pulpit every sermon
among those holy persons that the Church do order a collect for, giving
God thanks for.  By and by comes by my desire Commissioner Middleton's
coach and horses for us, and we went with it towards the Park, thinking to
have met The. Turner and Betty, but did not; so turned back again to their
lodging, and there found them and Mr. Batelier, and there, after a little
talk, we took leave, and carry Batelier home with us.  So to supper, and
so to bed.

2nd.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there with the Office attended
the Duke of York, and staid in White Hall till about noon, and so with W.
Hewer to the Cocke, and there he and I dined alone with great content, he
reading to me, for my memory's sake, my late collections of the history of
the Navy, that I might represent the same by and by to the Duke of York;
and so, after dinner, he and I to White Hall, and there to the Duke of
York's lodgings, whither he, by and by, by his appointment come: and alone
with him an hour in his closet, telling him mine and W. Coventry's advice
touching the present posture of the Navy, as the Duke of Buckingham and
the rest do now labour to make changes therein; and that it were best for
him to suffer the King to be satisfied with the bringing in of a man or
two which they desire.  I did also give the Duke of York a short account
of the history of the Navy, as to our Office, wherewith he was very well
satisfied: but I do find that he is pretty stiff against their bringing in
of men against his mind, as the Treasures were, and particularly against
Child's' coming in, because he is a merchant.  After much discourse with
him, we parted; and [he to] the Council, while I staid waiting for his
telling me when I should be ready to give him a written account of the
administration of the Navy.  This caused me to wait the whole afternoon,
till night.  In the mean time, stepping to the Duchess of York's side to
speak with Lady Peterborough; I did see the young Duchess,

          [The Princess Mary, afterwards Queen of England.]

a little child in hanging sleeves; dance most finely, so as almost to
ravish me, her ears were so good: taught by a Frenchman that did
heretofore teach the King, and all the King's children, and the
Queen-Mother herself, who do still dance well.  Thence to the council door
and Mr. Chevins took me into the back stairs, and they with his friend,
Mr. Nearly 75 percent of secondary endocarditis occurs as a complication
of acute articular rheumatism and chorea, or subsequently. On the
other hand, about 40 percent of all patients with acute articular
rheumatism develop endocarditis, sometimes perhaps so mild as to be hardly
discoverable. This complication is most likely to occur during the
second or third week of rheumatic fever. It is not sufficiently recognized
that a subacute arthritis, recurring tonsillitis, open and concealed
infections in the mouth, and even a condition of the system with acute,
changeable and varying joint and muscle pains may all develop a mild
endocarditis, even with subsequent valvular lesions. Therefore in all of
these conditions the decision can be made only as to how much rest
the patient must have or how serious the condition is to be considered
by careful examination of the heart in every instance.

Children are more liable than adults to this complication, especially
with rheumatism. Therefore, acute mild endocarditis with future
valvular lesions occurs most frequently during childhood and
adolescence, and if one attack has occurred, a subsequent infection,
especially of rheumatism, is liable to cause another acute endocarditis.

PATHOLOGY
The part of the heart most affected is the part which has the most
work to do--the left side of the heart--and of this side the left
ventricle and therefore the mitral and aortic valves; the most
frequent valve to be inflamed and to stiffer permanent disability
is the a mitral valve, the valve which in its inflamed condition
is subjected to the greatest amount of pressure and therefore
irritation.

Not infrequently soft systolic murmurs are heard at the pulmonary and
tricuspid valves during acute endocarditis. It is rare, however, that these
valves are so affected during childhood or adult life as to be permanently
disabled.

Whether a diminished alkalinity of the blood in rheumatism has anything
to do with the cause of the frequent complication of endocarditis has not
been determined. Whether the administration of alkalies to the point
of increasing the alkalinity of the blood is any protection against the
complication of endocarditis has also not been positively demonstrated,
although clinically such treatment is believed by a large number of
practitioners to be wise.

A chronic endocarditis with permanent lesions of the valves may become
an acute inflammation with an infectious provocation.

It has been shown that even in a few hours after endocarditis has started,
little vegetations composed of fibrin, with white blood cells, red blood
pigment and platelets, may develop. Practically in all instances such
vegetations develop, and later become more or less organized into connective
tissue. These little vegetations, generally minute, perhaps not exceeding
4 mm. in height, are irregular in contour like a wart. Some of these
may have small pedicles, and as such, of course, are more likely to become
loosened and fly off into the blood stream. It is of interest to note that
these little vegetations are more likely to be on the left side of the
heart than the right; on the valves than any other part, and on
the mitral valve than on the aortic.

     The consequence is a more frequent permanent disability of the valves
     of the left side of the heart, and of these more frequently the
mitral.

Although these little vegetations and excrescences sooner or later
become mostly connective tissue, still fibrin and white blood cells may
form thin layers over them, more or less permanent. In this fibrin are
frequently found bacteria, even when there has been no recent acute
inflammation. The deeper layers of the endocardium during acute inflammation
may become infiltrated with young cells, with resultant softening and
destruction of the intercellular substance. This softening and some swelling
of the lower layers of the endocardium allow the pushing up of these
extravasated blood cells which, being covered with fibrin, makes the
little vegetations above described; and as just stated, the fibrin may
form a more or less permanent cap. If this cap is disintegrated or lost
and the cells under it washed away in the blood stream, ulceration
takes place, which may be more or less serious, even to the perforation
of a valve or actual erosion of one of its cusps, and the parts of
the valves most seriously affected are the parts which strike against
each other on closure; as previously stated, the parts subjected to the
greatest strain and the greatest amount of friction during the inflammation
are the parts most seriously affected afterward.

If a perforation has occurred, it may make a permanent leak. If an
erosion of the edge of the valve has occurred, it may make permanent
insufficient closure. If the valve has become thickened and stiffened
during the cicatricial healing, it may not only be incompetent, but may
not open perfectly, and a narrowed orifice may be the consequence. During
the healing of these granulating ulcers there may be thickening
of the part or shrinking of the tissue, and the valve may become
shortened by adhesion to the wall, or the cusps of the valve may
adhere together so that the valve becomes permanently unable to
open properly or to close properly, or to do either.

Not infrequently and probably more frequently than we recognize, recovery
without any of the pathologic lesions just described follows mild
endocarditis. The occurrence of simple endocarditis is undoubtedly
frequent during acute disease, and is unrecognized because there are no
lesions of the heart at the time or subsequently; but valvular lesions
only too frequently follow the endocarditis which occurs with
rheumatism. Occasionally the ulcerations become serious, and ulcerative
endocarditis or malignant endocarditis develops on the mild inflammation.
In this form the little vegetations are liable to become loosened, fly off
into the blood stream, and cause emboli in different parts of the
body.

Recently Fraenkel [Footnote: Fraenkel: Beitr. z. path. Anat. u. z.
allg. Path., 1912, iii, 597.] concluded that the microscopic nodules which
occur in endocarditis in the myocardium, and which consist of the several
varieties of white blood corpuscles first referred to by Aschoff in 1904,
are characteristic only of acute rheumatism.

Fraenkel found these nodules in the myocardium in a case of chorea, showing
the close relationship between it and rheumatism.

While repeated careful examination of the heart during acute infections
will generally show signs of endocarditis if it is present, even if there
are no subjective symptoms, the disease may be so insidious as not to
be noted until a valvular lesion occurs.
Often, however, during the course of the disease, especially in rheumatism,
there is a slight increase in fever and there is a discomfort complained
of in the region of the heart, frequently accompanied by slight dyspnea.
Real pain is seldom present unless the pericardium is affected. If
the myocardium is much inflamed at the same time, the heart becomes more
rapid and the blood tension lowered, and the apex beat diminished in
intensity and perhaps not palpable. If there is pain, with or without
pericarditis, it is often referred to the epigastrium, especially in children.
The patient is often nervous, restless and sleepless. In simple endocarditis
emboli rarely occur. If they do, of course the signs will be in the part
in which the infarct occurs. Besides the diminished intensity of the apex
beat and its greater diffusion, the valve sounds may be muffled, and
sooner or later there may be systolic murmurs over the different orifices.
Of course systolic murmurs may be due to a disturbed condition of the
blood, but if they occur with the above-mentioned symptoms and signs,
endocarditis should be diagnosed. If the heart becomes seriously weak and
the patient suffers much dyspnea, myocarditis should be known to be present
with the endocarditis. If there is a diastolic murmur, there can be no
question of serious endocarditis having occurred.
Unexplainable palpation during acute illness liar been thought to be a
distinct symptom of endocarditis.

TREATMENT OF ENDOCARDITIS
As mild endocarditis rarely occurs primarily but is almost always secondary
to some acute disease, its immediate treatment is only a slight modification
of that of the disease which is causing it. A complication which is so
frequent should always be expected, and consequently warded off or prevented,
if possible. Knowledge of the diseases which are most liable to cause
endocarditis makes frequent heart examinations a necessity, to
note when it arrives.

While an extra heart tire, sleeplessness, and the circulation of unnecessary
toxins from a bad condition of the bowels and from improperly selected
food all make this complication more liable, its occurrence is, nevertheless,
often unpreventable.

The most efficacious preventive pleasures are sleep, rest, the stopping
of pain, prevention of exertion, proper food which does not cause flatulence
or other indigestion, good, sufficient daily movements of the bowels,
the prevention of intestinal distention, and maintenance of a clean, moist
surface of the body, produced by such sponging and bathing as the
temperature demands.

The disease having developed, the indications for treatment are really
few; in fact, the treatment is mostly negative. There is generally but
little local pain; the temperature from simple endocarditis alone
is not high and the acute symptoms tend to abate.

Local Treatment.--Endocarditis having been diagnosed, especially if there
is palpation or pain, an ice bag over the heart is often of
considerable value, but not so efficient as in pericarditis. It often
tends to quiet the heart, and may be of some value reflexly in slowing the
inflammation. If it causes restlessness, however, and does not lessen
the pain (which in some instances it may increase), it certainly should
be stopped. Children, in whom this complication so frequently occurs,
generally do not bear the ice bag well.
Sometimes it may be advisable to substitute warm applications, and often
a great deal of comfort is derived from them, the patient soon going to
sleep. One of the greatest values of either cold or hot applications is
diminution of the discomfort from the cardiac disturbance, and the
stopping of any pain which may be present. If they do not do this,
there is no object in using either cold or heat.

The discomfort from blisters over the heart during the acute stage of
endocarditis is greater than any good which they can do. In adults a few
small blisters may be used intermittently around the borders of the
heart, after the acute symptoms are over, to act reflexly on the heart
and possibly aid absorption of inflammatory products. Sometimes improvement
seems to follow such treatment; it certainly can do no harm.

During convalescence, the skin over the heart may be painted with iodin,
repeated often enough to cause stimulation without injuring the skin; it
seems at times to be of value. Various iodin or iodid ointments have been
used, but they probably have no more value than the administration of
small doses of iodid.

Systemic Treatment.--As this complication most frequently occurs during
acute rheumatism, the question arises as to the value or harmfulness
of salicylates and alkaline drugs.

With our recent better understanding of the action on the heart of
pure salicylates (either natural or synthetic saliclic acid, which have
been shown to act identically, if equally pure), we must believe that in
any ordinary dosage they will injure the heart but rarely. While salicylic
acid will not prevent endocarditis, it should he continued, if it is
of benefit with regard to the arthritis. The indication for its use depends
on its effect on the joints. As it acts at times almost as a specific in
rheumatism, it would seem that it should be of value in the endocarditis
caused by rheumatism. On the other hand, the endocarditis occurs during
the second or third week of acute rheumatism, after the blood has been
thoroughly saturated with salicylic acid. Therefore it certainly does not
tend to prevent rheumatic endocarditis; hence for this complication alone
salicylic acid is not indicated.

ALKALIES
Anything which tends to increase the acidity of the tissues and to
diminish the alkalinity of the blood, whether from starvation or
outer causes, seems to pro-duce endocardial and myocardial irritation,
if not actual inflammation. Therefore in a disease like rheumatism,
which seems to be made worse by anything which increases the acidity,
alkalies are obviously indicated, and it is probable that an increased
alkalinity of the blood tends to prevent endocardial irritation, and may
soothe an inflammation already present. Until we have some positive
knowledge to the contrary, alkalies should be freely administered during
endocarditis, especially during rheumatic endocarditis. Potassium citrate
in 2 gm.
(30 grain) closes, in wintergreen water, should be given every three to six
hours, depending on how readily the urine is made alkaline.
This may be given with the salicylic acid treatment, and also when the
salicylic acid has been stopped. It may be well, if sodium salicylate is
being used, to give also sodium bicarbonate, the sodium bicarbonate often
preventing irritation of the stomach from the sodium salicylate, the dose
being equal parts of the sodium salicylate and the sodium bicarbonate
administered in plenty of water.

If some other form of salicylic acid is preferred, novaspirin, which
is methylene-citryl-salicylic acid and contains 62 percent of salicylic
acid, is perhaps the least irritant to the stomach of the salicylic
preparations. This drug is decomposed in the intestine into its component
parts, salicylic acid and methylene-citric acid. If this drug is combined
with sodium bicarbonate, the disintegration into its component parts
would be likely to occur in the stomach.

IRON
It is essential for the welfare of the patient, especially after a long
illness before the complication of endocarditis could occur, and in rheumatic
fever, in which all meat and meat extractives have been kept from the
diet, that small doses of iron should be administered daily. Not
only the fever process, but also the salicylic acid tends to prevent the
healthy normal growth of red corpuscles. and such patients suffering
from rheumatism are often seriously anemic after the aente inflammation has
ceased. The iron administered may be 5 drops of the tincture of the
chlorid, in lemonade or orangeade, twice in twenty-four hours (and it
should be remembered that lemon and orange burn to alkalies in the system
and do not act as acids); or 0.1 gm. (1 1/2 grains) of reduced iron in
capsule twice in twenty-four hours, or a 3 grain tablet of saccharated
ferric oxid (Eisenzucker) twice in twenty-four hours.

OPIUM
As so many times repeated, real pain must be stopped, and morphin, either
by the mouth or hypodermically, should be used to the point of stopping
such pain. If the patient is a young child, codein sulphate or the
deodorized tincture of opium may be used in the dose found sufficient,
and either one will act satisfactorily. The dose given should be small
but repeated sufficiently often to stop the pain. The dose necessary for
the given individual will soon be learned, and that dose may be repeated
at such intervals as the condition may require. Sometimes the hypnotic
selected, if one is needed, will be sufficient to quiet the cardiac
aches or pains.

BROMIDS AND CHLORAL
If there is much restlessness and the circulation is good, that is, if
myocarditis is probably not present, the bromids may be of great value,
especially in children. The dose should be sufficient to quiet the nervous
system. The drug may be discontinued after a few days, if the conditions
improve. If the bromid, except in large doses, will not cause sleep, a
sufficient dose of chloral should be given. Chloral is one of the most
satisfactorily acting drugs which we have to produce sleep and to cause
cardiac rest. While it should not be given if there is real cardiac
weakness, the good which it does is so much greater than the possible bad
effect on the heart, that it should not be forgotten for some newer hypnotic.
The worst part of this drug is its taste, and the best way to administer
it is to have it in solution in water and the dose given on cracked ice
with a little lemon juice to be followed by a good drink of water and a
piece of orange pulp for the patient to chew. Ordinarily a bad-tasting
drug such as chloral is well administered in effervescing water, but
effeverscing waters are generally inadvisable when there is any kind of
inflammation of the heart, as they are liable to cause distention of the
stomach and pressure on the heart. Some physicians prefer chloralamid as a
less disagreeable drug and one which acts almost as efficiently
as chloral. As the close of this must be larger than the dose of
chloral, it is a question of doubt as to which is the better drug
to use. Of the newer hypnotics, veronal=sodium (sodium-diethyl-barbiturate)
is among the best. It acts quickly, is less depressant and is a
safer salt than most of the other newer hypnotics. It is the readily
soluble sodium salt of veronal (diethyl-barbituric acid). When
combined with any active drug, sodium seems to make it less toxic
and less depressant. The dose of this drug is from 0.2 to 0.3 gm.
(3 to 5 grains).

PREVENTION
If the patient is weak, the circulation depressed, the blood pressure
low, and the heart rapid, the drug advisable to produce rest and
sleep is almost always morphin or some other form of opium.
Morphin, with few exceptions, is a cardiac tonic and a cardiac
stimulant, unless the dose is much too large. As long as the bowels
are daily moved and the food is not given at the time of the full
action of the morphin, when digestion might be delayed or interfered
with, in most patients the action of this drug during serious illness
is entirely for good. The greatest mistake in using morphin for the
production of sleep, or for physical and mental rest and comfort
when there is not severe pain, is in giving too large a dose.Here also was Stapely: the rope-merchant, and dined with
us; and, after spending most of the afternoon also, I away home, and there
sent for W. Hewer, and he and I by water to White Hall to loop among other
things, for Mr. May, to unbespeak his dining with me to-morrow.  But here
being in the court-yard, God would have it, I spied Deb., which made my
heart and head to work, and I presently could not refrain, but sent W.
Hewer away to look for Mr. Wren (W. Hewer, I perceive, did see her, but
whether he did see me see her I know not, or suspect my sending him away I
know not, but my heart could not hinder me), and I run after her and two
women and a man, more ordinary people, and she in her old clothes, and
after hunting a little, find them in the lobby of the chapel below stairs,
and there I observed she endeavoured to avoid me, but I did speak to her
and she to me, and did get her pour dire me ou she demeurs now, and did
charge her para say nothing of me that I had vu elle, which she did
promise, and so with my heart full of surprize and disorder I away, and
meeting with Sir H. Cholmley walked into the Park with him and back again,
looking to see if I could spy her again in the Park, but I could not.  And
so back to White Hall, and then back to the Park with Mr. May, but could
see her, no more, and so with W. Hewer, who I doubt by my countenance
might see some disorder in me, we home by water, and there I find Talbot
Pepys, and Mrs. Turner, and Betty, come to invite us to dinner on
Thursday; and, after drinking, I saw them to the water-side, and so back
home through Crutched Friars, and there saw Mary Mercer, and put off my
hat to her, on the other side of the way, but it being a little darkish
she did not, I think, know me well, and so to my office to put my papers
in order, they having been removed for my closet to be made clean, and so
home to my wife, who is come home from Deptford.  But, God forgive me, I
hardly know how to put on confidence enough to speak as innocent, having
had this passage to-day with Deb., though only, God knows, by accident.
But my great pain is lest God Almighty shall suffer me to find out this
girl, whom indeed I love, and with a bad amour, but I will pray to God to
give me grace to forbear it.  So home to supper, where very sparing in my
discourse, not giving occasion of any enquiry where I have been to-day, or
what I have done, and so without any trouble to-night more than my fear,
we to bed.

14th.  Up, and with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there I did speak with the
Duke of York, the Council sitting in the morning, and it was to direct me
to have my business ready of the Administration of the Office against
Saturday next, when the King would have a hearing of it.  Thence home, W.
Hewer with me, and then out with my own coach to the Duke of York's
play-house, and there saw "The Impertinents," a play which pleases me well
still; but it is with great trouble that I now see a play, because of my
eyes, the light of the candles making it very troublesome to me.  After
the play;: my wife and I towards the Park, but it being too late we to
Creed's, and there find him and her [his wife] together alone, in their
new house, where I never was before, they lodging before at the next door,
and a pretty house it is; but I do not see that they intend to keep any
coach.  Here they treat us like strangers, quite according to the
fashion--nothing to drink or eat, which is a thing that will spoil our
ever having any acquaintance with them; for we do continue the old freedom
and kindness of England to all our friends.  But they do here talk
mightily of my Lady Paulina making a very good end, and being mighty
religious in her lifetime; and hath left many good notes of sermons and
religion; wrote with her own hand, hand, which nobody ever knew of; which
I am glad of: but she was always a peevish lady.  Thence home, and there
to talk and to supper and to bed, all being very safe as to my seeing of
poor Deb. yesterday.

15th.  Up, and to the office, and thence before the office sat to the
Excise Office with W. Hewer, but found some occasion to go another way to
the Temple upon business, and I by Deb.'s direction did know whither in
Jewen Street to direct my hackney coachman, while I staid in the coach in
Aldgate Street, to go thither just to enquire whether Mrs. Hunt, her aunt,
was in town, who brought me word she was not; thought this was as much as
I could do at once, and therefore went away troubled through that I could
do no more but to the office I must go and did, and there all the morning,
but coming thither I find Bagwell's wife, who did give me a little note
into my hand, wherein I find her para invite me para meet her in
Moorfields this noon, where I might speak with her, and so after the
office was up, my wife being gone before by invitation to my cozen
Turner's to dine, I to the place, and there, after walking up and down by
the windmills, I did find her and talk with her, but it being holiday and
the place full of people, we parted, leaving further discourse and doing
to another time.  Thence I away, and through Jewen Street, my mind, God
knows, running that way, but stopped not, but going down Holborne hill, by
the Conduit, I did see Deb. on foot going up the hill.  I saw her, and she
me, but she made no stop, but seemed unwilling to speak to me; so I away
on, but then stopped and 'light, and after her and overtook her at the end
of Hosier lane in Smithfield, and without standing in the street desired
her to follow me, and I led her into a little blind alehouse within the
walls, and there she and I alone fell to talk and baiser la and toker su
mammailles, but she mighty coy, and I hope modest .  .  .  . I did give
her in a paper 20s., and we did agree para meet again in the Hall at
Westminster on Monday next; and so giving me great hopes by her carriage
that she continues modest and honest, we did there part, she going home
and I to Mrs. Turner's, but when I come back to the place where I left my
coach it was gone, I having staid too long, which did trouble me to abuse
the poor fellow, so that taking another coach I did direct him to find out
the fellow and send him to me.  At my cozen Turner's I find they are gone
all to dinner to Povy's, and thither I, and there they were all, and W.
Batelier and his sister, and had dined; but I had good things brought me,
and then all up and down the house, and mightily pleased to see the fine
rooms: but, the truth is, there are so many bad pictures, that to me make
the good ones lose much of the pleasure in seeing them.  The. and Betty
Turner in new flowered tabby gowns, and so we were pretty merry, only my
fear upon me for what I had newly done, do keep my content in.  So, about
five or six o'clock, away, and I took my wife and the two Bateliers, and
carried them homeward, and W. Batelier 'lighting, I carried the women
round by Islington, and so down Bishopsgate Street home, and there to talk
and sup, and then to bed.

16th.  Up, and to my chamber, where with Mr. Gibson all the morning, and
there by noon did almost finish what I had to write about the
Administration of the Office to present to the Duke of York, and my wife
being gone abroad with W. Hewer, to see the new play to-day, at the Duke
of York's house, "Guzman," I dined alone with my people, and in the
afternoon away by coach to White Hall; and there the Office attended the
Duke of York; and being despatched pretty soon, and told that we should
not wait on the King, as intended, till Sunday, I thence presently to the
Duke of York's playhouse, and there, in the 18d. seat, did get room to see
almost three acts of the play; but it seemed to me but very ordinary.
After the play done, I into the pit, and there find my wife and W. Hewer;
and Sheres got to them, which, so jealous is my nature, did trouble me,
though my judgment tells me there is no hurt in it, on neither side; but
here I did meet with Shadwell, the poet, who, to my great wonder, do tell
me that my Lord of [Orrery] did write this play, trying what he could do
in comedy, since his heroique plays could do no more wonders.  This do
trouble me; for it is as mean a thing, and so he says, as hath been upon
the stage a great while; and Harris, who hath no part in it, did come to
me, and told me in discourse that he was glad of it, it being a play that
will not take.  Thence home, and to my business at the office, to finish
it, but was in great pain about yesterday still, lest my wife should have
sent her porter to enquire anything, though for my heart I cannot see it
possible how anything could be discovered of it, but yet such is fear as
to render me full of doubt and disgust.  At night to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon at home to
dinner, and there find Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, and he dined with us; and
there hearing that "The Alchymist" was acted, we did go, and took him with
us to the King's house; and it is still a good play, having not been acted
for two or three years before; but I do miss Clun, for the Doctor. But
more my eyes will not let me enjoy the pleasure I used to have in a play.
Thence with my wife in hackney to Sir W. Coventry's, who being gone to the
Park we drove after him, and there met him coming out, and followed him
home, and there sent my wife to Unthanke's while I spent on hour with him
reading over first my draught of the Administration of the Navy, which he
do like very well; and so fell to talk of other things, and among the rest
of the story of his late disgrace, and how basely and in what a mean
manner the Duke of Buckingham hath proceeded against him--not like a man
of honour.  He tells me that the King will not give other answer about his
coming to kiss his hands, than "Not yet."  But he says that this that he
desires, of kissing the King's hand, is only to show to the world that he
is not discontented, and not in any desire to come again into play, though
I do perceive that he speaks this with less earnestness than heretofore:
and this, it may be, is, from what he told me lately, that the King is
offended at what is talked, that he hath declared himself desirous not to
have to do with any employment more. But he do tell me that the leisure he
hath yet had do not at all begin to be burdensome to him, he knowing how
to spend his time with content to himself; and that he hopes shortly to
contract his expence, so as that he shall not be under any straits in that
respect neither; and so seems to be in very good condition of content.
Thence I away over the Park, it being now night, to White Hall, and there,
in the Duchess's chamber, do find the Duke of York; and, upon my offer to
speak with him, he did come to me, and withdrew to his closet, and there
did hear and approve my paper of the Administration of the Navy, only did
bid me alter these words, "upon the rupture between the late King and the
Parliament," to these, "the beginning of the late Rebellion;" giving it me
as but reason to shew that it was with the Rebellion that the Navy was put
by out of its old good course, into that of a Commission.  Having done
this, we fell to other talk; he with great confidence telling me how
matters go among our adversaries, in reference to the Navy, and that he
thinks they do begin to flag; but then, beginning to talk in general of
the excellency of old constitutions, he did bring out of his cabinet, and
made me read it, an extract out of a book of my late Lord of
Northumberland's, so prophetic of the: business of Chatham, as is almost
miraculous.  I did desire, and he did give it me to copy out, which
pleased me mightily, and so, it being late, I away and to my wife, and by
hackney; home, and there, my eyes being weary with reading so much: but
yet not so much as I was afeard they would, we home to supper and to bed.

18th (Lord's day).  Up, and all the morning till 2 o'clock at my Office,
with Gibson and Tom, about drawing up fair my discourse of the
Administration of the Navy, and then, Mr. Spong being come to dine with
me, I in to dinner, and then out to my Office again, to examine the fair
draught; and so borrowing Sir J. Minnes's coach, he going with Colonel
Middleton, I to White Hall, where we all met and did sign it and then to
my Lord Arlington's, where the King, and the Duke of York, and Prince
Rupert, as also Ormond and the two Secretaries, with my Lord Ashly and Sir
T. Clifton was. And there, by and by, being called in, Mr. Williamson did
read over our paper, which was in a letter to the Duke of York, bound up
in a book with the Duke of York's Book of Instructions.  He read it well;
and, after read, we were bid to withdraw, nothing being at all said to it.
And by and by we were called in again, and nothing said to that business;
but another begun, about the state of this year's action, and our wants of
money, as I had stated the same lately to our Treasurers; which I was bid,
and did largely, and with great content, open.  And having so done, we all
withdrew, and left them to debate our supply of money; to which, being
called in, and referred to attend on the Lords of the Treasury, we all
departed.  And I only staid in the House till the Council rose; and then
to the Duke of York, who in the Duchess's chamber come to me, and told me
that the book was there left with my Lord Arlington, for any of the Lords
to view that had a mind, and to prepare and present to the King what they
had to say in writing, to any part of it, which is all we can desire, and
so that rested.  The Duke of York then went to other talk; and by and by
comes the Prince of Tuscany to visit him, and the Duchess; and I find that
he do still remain incognito, and so intends to do all the time he stays
here, for avoiding trouble to the King and himself, and expence also to
both.  Thence I to White Hall Gate, thinking to have found Sir J. Minnes's
coach staying for me; but, not being there, and this being the first day
of rain we have had many a day, the streets being as dusty as in summer, I
forced to walk to my cozen Turner's, and there find my wife newly gone
home, which vexed me, and so I, having kissed and taken leave of Betty,
who goes to Putney to school to-morrow, I walked through the rain to the
Temple, and there, with much ado, got a coach, and so home, and there to
supper, and Pelling comes to us, and after much talk, we parted, and to
bed.

19th.  It has been found that these stimulant baths do not act well in
mitral stenosis, if the left ventricle is small. If the left ventricle
is unable to receive and therefore send out into the systemic circulation
sufficient blood to dilate the peripheral capillaries under the irritation
of the baths or the vasodilator effects of the baths, the bath treatment
does harm instead of good.
A patient who has mitral stenosis and also a small left ventricle will be
found to be poorly developed, badly nourished, and to have poor peripheral
circulation.

As elsewhere stated, the improvised carbon dioxid bath, to stimulate the
skin so as to reduce the blood pressure, is not satisfactory.
Other methods of reducing blood pressure, when it is too high, are much more
effective.

HEART DISEASE IN CHILDREN AND DURING PREGNANCY

A common characteristic in a large proportion of middle-aged or old
patients with heart disease is the presence of degenerative changes in
the myocardium, the valves, or the arteries of the heart. In children, on
the other hand, the most common disturbances of the heart are acute
inflammations affecting its different structures, and due in most instances
to acute infections. Myocarditis and endocarditis occur frequently,
and pericarditis occasionally.

As in adults, rheumatism is the most common cause of inflammation of the
structures of the heart, but rheumatism causes inflammation of the heart
much more frequently in children than in adults. Besides this infection,
the most frequent causes of inflammation of the heart in children are
diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, measles and influenza,
with the frequency, perhaps, in the order named.
Diphtheria frequently gives rise to myocarditis, which results in
dilatation of the heart. This may occur in the second or third week
of the course of the disease, and even up to the eighth and tenth
week from the beginning of the disease.At noon comes my guest, Mr. Hugh May, and with him Sir
Henry Capell, my old Lord Capel's son, and Mr. Parker; and I had a pretty
dinner for them; and both before and after dinner had excellent discourse;
and shewed them my closet and my Office, and the method of it to their
great content; and more extraordinary, manly discourse and opportunity of
shewing myself, and learning from others, I have not, in ordinary
discourse, had in my life, they being all persons of worth, but especially
Sir H. Capell, whose being a Parliament-man, and hearing my discourse in
the Parliament-house, hath, as May tells me, given him along desire to
know and discourse with me.  In the afternoon we walked to the Old
Artillery-Ground' near the Spitalfields, where I never was before, but
now, by Captain Deane's invitation, did go to see his new gun tryed, this
being the place where the Officers of the Ordnance do try all their great
guns; and when we come, did find that the trial had been made; and they
going away with extraordinary report of the proof of his gun, which, from
the shortness and bigness, they do call Punchinello.  But I desired
Colonel Legg to stay and give us a sight of her performance, which he did,
and there, in short, against a gun more than as long and as heavy again,
and charged with as much powder again, she carried the same bullet as
strong to the mark, and nearer and above the mark at a point blank than
theirs, and is more easily managed, and recoyles no more than that, which
is a thing so extraordinary as to be admired for the happiness of his
invention, and to the great regret of the old Gunners and Officers of the
Ordnance that were there, only Colonel Legg did do her much right in his
report of her.  We live at such speed, even the children, that this caution
is almost daily needed. We must caution against severe athletic
competition, against personal "stunts," against recreation excesses, even
golfing, automobiling and dancing, against excess in the use of
tobacco, in eating, in late dinners, in coffee, tea and alcohol. We
must take better care of patients during their convalescence from some
serious illness lest they have circulatory debility by becoming strenuous
too soon after their recovery. The pregnant woman must be more carefully
watched, not only for her own sake, but also for the sake of her child.
Intestinal indigestion, while not the cause of all disturbances
that occur in man after 40, is still an important element in his
deterioration and degeneration, and it should be prevented if
possible.This was our talk: and then to talk of other
things, of the Navy in general: and, among other things, he did tell me
that he do hear how the Duke of Buckingham hath a spite at me, which I
knew before, but value it not: and he tells me that Sir T. Allen is not my
friend; but for all this I am not much troubled, for I know myself so
usefull that, as I believe, they will not part with me; so I thank God my
condition is such that I can; retire, and be able to live with comfort,
though not with abundance.  Thus we spent the evening with extraordinary
good discourse, to my great content, and so home to the Office, and there
did some business, and then home, where my wife do come home, and I vexed
at her staying out so late, but she tells me that she hath been at home
with M. Batelier a good while, so I made nothing of it, but to supper and
to bed.

21st.  Up; and with my own coach as far as the Temple, and thence sent it
to my cozen Turner, who, to ease her own horses, that are going with her
out of town, do borrow mine to-day.  So I to Auditor Wood's, and thereto
meet, and met my Lord Bellassis upon some business of his accounts, and
having done that did thence go to St. James's, and attended the Duke of
York a little, being the first time of my waiting on him at St. James's
this summer, whither he is now newly gone and thence walked to White Hall;
and so, by and by, to the Council-Chamber, and heard a remarkable cause
pleaded between the Farmers of the Excise of Wiltshire, in complaint
against the justices of Peace of Salisbury: and Sir H. Finch was for the
former.  But, Lord! to see how he did with his admirable eloquence order
the matter, is not to be conceived almost: so pleasant a thing it is to
hear him plead.  Then at noon by coach home, and thither by and by comes
cozen Turner, and The., and Joyce, in their riding-clod: they being come
from their lodgings to her husbands chamber, at the Temple, and there do
lie, and purpose to go out of town on Friday next; and here I had a good
dinner for them.  After dinner by water to White Hall, where the Duke of
York did meet our Office, and went with us to the Lords Commissioners of
the Treasury; and there we did go over all the business of the state I had
drawn up, of this year's action and expence, which I did do to their
satisfaction, and convincing them of the necessity of providing more
money, if possible, for us.  Thence the Duke of York being gone, I did
there stay walking with Sir H. Cholmly in the Court, talking of news;
where he told me, that now the great design of the Duke of Buckingham is
to prevent the meeting, since he cannot bring about with the King the
dissolving, of this Parliament, that the King may not need it; and
therefore my Lord St. Albans is hourly expected with great offers of a
million of money,--[From Louis XIV. See April 28th]--to buy our breach
with the Dutch: and this, they do think, may tempt the King to take the
money, and thereby be out of a necessity of calling the Parliament again,
which these people dare not suffer to meet again: but this he doubts, and
so do I, that it will be to the ruin of the nation if we fall out with
Holland.  This we were discoursing when my boy comes to tell me that his
mistress was at the Gate with the coach, whither I went, and there find my
wife and the whole company.  So she, and Mrs. Turner, and The., and
Talbot, in mine: and Joyce, W. Batelier, and I, in a hackney, to Hyde
Park, where I was ashamed to be seen; but mightily pleased, though
troubled, with a drunken coachman that did not remember when we come to
'light, where it was that he took us up; but said at Hammersmith, and
thither he was carrying of us when we come first out of the Park.  So I
carried them all to Hercules-Pillars, and there did treat them: and so,
about ten at night, parted, and my wife, and I, and W. Batelier, home; and
he gone, we to bed.

22nd.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning.  At noon home to
dinner, and Captain Deane with us; and very good discourse, and
particularly about my getting a book for him to draw up his whole theory
of shipping, which, at my desire, he hath gone far in, and hath shewn me
what he hath done therein, to admiration.  I did give him a Parallelogram,
which he is mightily taken with; and so after dinner to the Office, where
all the afternoon till night late, and then home. Vexed at my wife's not
being come home, she being gone again abroad with M. Batelier, and come
not home till ten at night, which vexed me, so that I to bed, and lay in
pain awake till past one, and then to sleep.

23rd.  Going to rise, without saying anything, my wife stopped me; and,
after a little angry talk, did tell me how she spent all day yesterday
with M. Batelier and her sweetheart, and seeing a play at the New Nursery,
which is set up at the house in Lincoln's Inn Fields, which was formerly
the King's house.  So that I was mightily pleased again, and rose a with
great content; and so by water to White Hall, and there to the
Council-Chamber, and heard two or three causes: among others, that of the
complaint of Sir Philip Howard and Watson, the inventors, as they pretend,
of the business of varnishing and lackerworke, against the Company of
Painters, who take upon them to do the same thing; where I saw a great
instance of the weakness of a young Counsel not used to such an audience,
against the Solicitor-General and two more able Counsel used to it.
Though he had the right of, his side, and did prevail for what he
pretended to against the rest, yet it was with much disadvantage and
hazard.  Here, also I heard Mr. Papillion' make his defence to the King,
against some complaints of the Farmers of Excise; but it was so weak, and
done only by his own seeking, that it was to his injury more than profit,
and made his case the worse, being ill managed, and in a cause against the
King.  Thence at noon, the Council rising, I to Unthanke's, and there by
agreement met my wife, and with her to the Cocke, and did give her a
dinner, but yet both of us but in an ill humour, whatever was the matter
with her, but thence to the King's playhouse, and saw "The Generous
Portugalls," a play that pleases me better and better every time we see
it; and, I thank God! it did not trouble my eyes so much as I was afeard
it would.  Here, by accident, we met Mr. Sheres, and yet I could not but
be troubled, because my wife do so delight to talk of him, and to see him.
Nevertheless, we took him with us to our mercer's, and to the Exchange,
and he helped me to choose a summer-suit of coloured camelott, coat and
breeches, and a flowered tabby vest very rich; and so home, where he took
his leave, and down to Greenwich, where he hath some friends; and I to see
Colonel Middleton, who hath been ill for a day or two, or three; and so
home to supper, and to bed.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to
dinner, Mr. Sheres dining with us by agreement; and my wife, which
troubled me, mighty careful to have a handsome dinner for him; but yet I
see no reason to be troubled at it, he being a very civil and worthy man,
I think; but only it do seem to imply some little neglect of me.  After
dinner to the King's house, and there saw "The General" revived--a good
play, that pleases me well, and thence, our coach coming for us, we parted
and home, and I busy late at the office, and then home to supper and to
bed.  Well pleased to-night to have Lead, the vizard-maker, bring me home
my vizard, with a tube fastened in it, which, I think, will do my
business, at least in a great measure, for the easing of my eyes.

25th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my Office awhile, and thither comes Lead
with my vizard, with a tube fastened within both eyes; which, with the
help which he prompts me to, of a glass in the tube, do content me
mightily.  So to church, where a stranger made a dull sermon, but I
mightily pleased to looks upon Mr. Buckworth's little pretty daughters,
and so home to, dinner, where W. Howe come and dined with us; and then I
to my Office, he being gone, to write down my journal for the last twelve
days: and did it with the help of my vizard and tube fixed to it, and do
find it mighty manageable, but how helpfull to my eyes this trial will
shew me.  So abroad with my wife, in the afternoon, to the Park, where
very much company, and the weather very pleasant.  I carried my wife to
the Lodge, the first time this year, and there in our coach eat a
cheese-cake and drank a tankard of milk.  I showed her this day also first
the Prince of Tuscany, who was in the Park, and many very fine ladies, and
so home, and after supper to bed.

26th.  Up, having lain long, and then by coach with W. Hewer to the Excise
Office, and so to Lilly's, the Varnishes; who is lately dead, and his wife
and brother keep up the trade, and there I left my French prints to be put
on boards:, and, while I was there, a fire burst out in a chimney of a
house over against his house, but it was with a gun quickly put out.  So
to White Hall, and did a little business there at the Treasury chamber,
and so homeward, calling at the laceman's for some lace for my new suit,
and at my tailor's, and so home, where to dinner, and Mr. Sheres dined,
with us, who come hither to-day to teach my wife the rules of perspective;
but I think, upon trial, he thinks it too hard to teach her, being
ignorant of the principles of lines.  After dinner comes one Colonel
Macnachan, one that I see often at Court, a Scotchman, but know him not;
only he brings me a letter from my Lord Middleton, who, he says, is in
great distress for L500 to relieve my Lord Morton with, but upon, what
account I know not; and he would have me advance it without order upon his
pay for Tangier, which I was astonished at, but had the grace to deny him
with an excuse.  And so he went away, leaving me a little troubled that I
was thus driven, on a sudden, to do any thing herein; but Creed, coming
just now to see me, he approves of what I have done.  And then to talk of
general matters, and, by and by, Sheres being gone, my wife, and he, and I
out, and I set him down at Temple Bar, and myself and wife went down the
Temple upon seeming business, only to put him off, and just at the Temple
gate I spied Deb. with another gentlewoman, and Deb. winked on me and
smiled, but undiscovered, and I was glad to see her.  So my wife and I to
the 'Change, about things for her; and here, at Mrs. Burnett's shop, I am
told by Betty, who was all undressed, of a great fire happened in
Durham-Yard last night, burning the house of one Lady Hungerford, who was
to come to town to it this night; and so the house is burned, new
furnished, by carelessness of the girl sent to take off a candle from a
bunch of candles, which she did by burning it off, and left the rest, as
is supposed, on fire.  The King and Court were here, it seems, and stopped
the fire by blowing up of the next house.  The King and Court went out of
town to Newmarket this morning betimes, for a week.  So home, and there to
my chamber, and got my wife to read to me a little, and so to supper and
to bed.  Coming home this night I did call at the coachmaker's, and do
resolve upon having the standards of my coach gilt with this new sort of
varnish, which will come but to 40s.; and, contrary to my expectation, the
doing of the biggest coach all over comes not to above L6, which is [not]
very much.

27th.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning.  At noon home to
dinner, and then to the Office again, where the afternoon busy till late,
and then home, and got my wife to read to me in the Nepotisme,

     [The work here mentioned is a bitter satire against the Court Rome,
     written in Italian, and attributed to Gregorio Leti.  It was first
     printed in 1667, without the name or place of printer, but it is
     from the press of the Elzevirs.  The book obtained by Pepys was
     probably the anonymous English translation, "Il Nipotismo di Roma:
     or the history of the Popes nephews from the time of Sixtus the IV.
     to the death the last Pope Alexander the VII. In two parts.  Written
     originally Italian in the year 1667 and Englished by W. A. London,
     1669" 8vo. From this work the word Nepotism is derived, and is
     applied to the bad practice of statesmen, when in power, providing
     lucrative places for their relations.]

which is very pleasant, and so to supper and to bed.  This afternoon was
brought to me a fresh Distringas upon the score of the Tangier accounts
which vexes me, though I hope it will not turn to my wrong.

28th.  Up, and was called upon by Sir H. Cholmly to discourse about some
accounts of his, of Tangier: and then other talk; and I find by him that
it is brought almost effect ([through] the late endeavours of the Duke of
York Duchess, the Queen-Mother, and my Lord St. The dear shy youth, with
touch of scorn, I loved with him through woods to pass, And girding in
the early morn.

When bent on foes, they boded ill, Those dear grey eyes, that maids
adored; When, spent with toil, his troops lay still, Through Irish woods
his tenor soared.

For this it is, no more I sleep; No more my nails with pink I stain:
No joy can break the watch I keep; For Usna's sons come not again.

For half the night no sleep I find; No couch can me to rest beguile:
'Mid crowds of thoughts still strays my mind; I find no time to eat or
smile.

In eastern Emain's proud array No time to joy is left for me; For gorgeous
house, and garments gay, Nor peace, nor joy, nor rest can be.

And when Conor sought to soothe her; thus Deirdre would answer him:

Ah Conor! what of thee! I naught can do!
Lament and sorrow on my life have passed:
The ill you fashioned lives my whole life through; A little time
your love for me would last.

The man to me most fair beneath the sky, The man I loved, in death away
you tore:
The crime you did was great; for, till I die, That face I loved I never
shall see more.

That he is gone is all my sorrow still; Before me looms the shape of Usna's
son; Though o'er his body white is yon dark hill, There's much I'd lavish,
if but him I won.

I see his cheeks, with meadow's blush they glow; Black as a beetle, runs his
eyebrows' line; His lips are red; and, white as noble snow I see his teeth,
like pearls they seem to shine.

Well have I known the splendid garb he bears, Oft among Alba's warriors
seen of old:
A crimson mantle, such as courtier wears, And edged with border
wrought of ruddy gold.

Of silk his tunic; great its costly price; For full one hundred pearls
thereon are sewn; Stitched with findruine,[FN#44] bright with strange device,
Full fifty ounces weighed those threads alone.

Gold-hilted in his hand I see his sword; Two spears he holds, with
spear-heads grim and green; Around his shield the yellow gold is poured,
And in its midst a silver boss is seen.

Fair Fergus ruin on us all hath brought!
We crossed the ocean, and to him gave heed:
His honour by a cup of ale was bought; From him hath passed the fame of each
high deed.

If Ulster on this plain were gathered here Before king Conor; and those
troops he'd give, I'd lose them all, nor think the bargain dear, If I with
Naisi, Usna's son, could live.

Break not, O king, my heart to-day in me; For soon, though young, I come my
grave unto:
My grief is stronger than the strength of sea; Thou, Conor, knowest well
my word is true.

"Whom dost thou hate the most," said Conor, "of these whom thou now seest?"

                "Thee thyself," she answered, "and with thee Eogan the son of
Durthacht."

            [FN#44] Pronounced find-roony; usually translated "white bronze."

   "Then," said Conor, "thou shalt dwell with Eogan for a year;" and
he gave Deirdre over into Eogan's hand.
                      

                              Now upon the morrow they went away over the festal plain of Macha,
and Deirdre sat behind Eogan in the chariot; and the two who were
with her were the two men whom she would never willingly have seen
together upon the earth, and as she looked upon them, "Ha, Deirdre,"
said Conor, "it is the same glance that a ewe gives when between
two rams that thou sharest now between me and Eogan!"

                      Now there was a great rock of stone in front of them, and Deirdre
struck her head upon that stone, and she shattered her head, and
so she died.

                        This then is the tale of the exile of the sons of Usnach, and of
the Exile of Fergus, and of the death of Deirdre.

                        THE LAMENT OF DEIRDRE OVER THE SONS OF USNACH
ACCORDING TO THE GLENN MASAIN VERSION
ALSO THE CONCLUSION OF THE TALE FROM THE SAME VERSION
I grieved not, Usna's sons beside; But long, without them, lags the
day:
Their royal sire no guest denied; Three lions from Cave Hill were
they.

                          Three dragons bred in
                                  
                                  Mona's fort Are dead: to them from life I go; Three chiefs who
graced the Red Branch Court, Three rocks, who broke the rush of foe.

O loved by many a British maid!
O swift as hawks round Gullion's peak!
True sons of king, who warriors swayed, To whom bent chiefs in homage
meek.

No vassal look those champions wore; Full grief is mine that such should
die!
Those sons, whom Cathbad's daughter bore; Those props, who Cualgne's[FN#45]
war held high.

[FN#45] Pronounced Kell-ny.

Three bears of might, to war they came; From Oona's walls, like lions,
burst; Three hero-chiefs, who loved their fame; Three sons, on Ulster's
bosom nursed.

Twas Aife[FN#46] reared them; 'neath her yoke A kingdom bowed, and tribute
brought; They propped the war, when armies broke, Those foster-sons,
whom Scathach[FN#47] taught.

The Three, who once from Bohvan's skill All feats have learned
that heroes know; King Usna's glorious sons! 'tis ill That these afar
from me should go.

That I should live, with Naisi dead, Let none such shame believe of
me; When Ardan's life, when Ainnle's fled, But short my life I knew would
be.

Great Ulster's king my hand had won; I left him, Naisi's love to find; Till
Naisi's funeral rites be done, I wait a little while behind.

This widowed life no more I'll bear; The Three rejoiced, when toil they
faced; Where'er 'twas found, the war they'd dare, And proffered
fight with joy embraced.

A curse on Cathbad's wizard spell!
'Twas Naisi's death! and I the cause!
None came to aid that king, who well To all the world might grant his
laws.

[FN#46] Pronounced Eefa.

[FN#47] Pronounced Ska-ha.

O man, who diggest low the grave, And from my sight my love would hide, Make
wide the tomb; its room I crave, I come to seek my hero's side.

Great load of hardship I'd endure with joy, If yet those heroes my companions
were; No lack of house or fire could then annoy, No gloom I'd know with
them, nor aught of care.

Ah! many a time each shield and guardian spear To make my couch have piled
those noble Three:
O labouring man, their grave who diggest here, Their hardened swords above
well set should be.

The hounds of all the Three their masters lack, Their hawks no quarry
leave, nor hear their call; The three are dead, who battle's line
held back Who learned their skill in Conall Cernach's hall!

Their hounds I view; from out my heart that sight Hath struck a groan; behind
their leashes trail, 'Twas mine to hold them once, and keep them tight;,
Now slack they lie, and cause me thus to wail.

Oft in the desert I and they have strayed, Yet never lonely was that desert
known For all the Three a grave to-day is made, And here I sit,
and feel indeed alone.

I gazed on Naisi's grave, and now am blind, For naught remains to see;
the worst is spent; My soul must leave me soon, no help I find, And they
are gone, the folk of my lament.

'Twas guile that crushed them: they would save my life And died therefor;
themselves three billows strong:
Ere Usna's children fell in cruel strife, Would I had died, and earth had
held me long!

To Red-Branch Hall we made our mournful way; Deceitful Fergus led; our
lives he stole; A soft sweet speech indeed he'd learned to say, For
me, for them was ruin near that goal.

All Ulster's pleasures now are nothing worth I shun them all, each chief,
each ancient friend; Alone I sit, as left behind on earth, And
soon my lonely life in death shall end.

I am Deirdre, the joyless, For short time alive, Though to end life be evil,
'Tis worse to survive.

And, after she had made this lament, Deirdre seated herself in the tomb,
and she gave three kisses to Naisi before that he was laid in his grave;
and with heaviness and grief Cuchulain went on to Dun Delga.
And Cathbad the Druid laid a curse upon Emain Macha to take vengeance for
that great evil, and he said that, since that treachery had been done,
neither king Conor nor any other of his race should hold that burg.

And as for Fergus, the son of Rossa the Red, he came to Emain Macha on the
morrow after the sons of Usnach had been slain. And, when he found that
they had been slain, and that his pledge had been dishonoured, he himself,
and Cormac the Partner of Exile, king Conor's own son, also Dubhtach,
the Beetle of Ulster, and the armies they had with them, gave battle to
the household of Conor; and they slew Maine the son of Conor,
and three hundred of Conor's people besides.

And Emain Macha was destroyed, and burned by them, and Conor's women were
slain, and they collected their adherents on every side; the number of
their host was three thousand warriors. And they went away to the land
of Connaught, even to Ailill the Great, who was the king of Connaught at
that time, and to Maev of Croghan, and with them they found a welcome and
support.
Moreover Fergus and Cormac the Partner of Exile and their warriors, after
that they had come to the land of Connaught, never let pass one single night
wherein reavers went not forth from them to harry and burn the land of
Ulster, so that the district which men to-day call the land of Cualgne
was subdued by them; and from that in the after-time came between the
two kingdoms much of trouble and theft; and in this fashion they spent
seven years, or, as some say, ten years; nor was there any truce between
them, no, not for one single hour.

And while those deeds were doing, Deirdre abode by Conor in his household
for a whole year after the sons of Usnach had been slain.
And, though it might have seemed but a small thing for her to raise her
head, or to let laughter flow over her lips, yet she never did these
things during all that time. And when Conor saw that neither sport nor
kindness could hold her; and that neither jesting nor pleasing honour could
raise her spirits, he sent word to Eogan the son of Durthacht, the lord
of Fernmay;[FN#48] as some tell the story, it was this Eogan who had slain
Naisi in Emain Macha.

And after that Eogan had come to the place where Conor was, Conor gave
command to Deirdre that, since he himself had failed to turn her heart from
her grief, she must depart to Eogan, and spend another space of time
with him. And with that she was placed behind Eogan in his chariot, and
Conor went also in the chariot in order to deliver Deirdre into Eogan's
hand. And as they went on their way, she cast a fierce glance at Eogan in
front of her, and another at Conor behind her; for there was nothing
in all the world that she hated more than those two men.

And when Conor saw this, as he looked at her and at Eogan, he said: "Ah
Deirdre! it is the glance of a ewe when set between two rams that thou
castest on me and on Eogan!" And when Deirdre heard that, she sprang up,
and she made a leap out of the chariot, and she struck her head
against the stony rocks that were in front of her, and she shattered
her head so that the brains leapt out, and thus came to Deirdre her
death.

[FN#48] The Irish is Fernmag; written Fearnmhuidh in the late manuscript
of this part of the tale.

This is the Tree of their race, and an account of the kinships of some of
the Champions of the Red Branch, which is given here before we proceed to
speak of the Deeds of Cuchulain:

'Twas Cathbad first won Magach's love, and arms around her threw; From
Maelchro's loins, the Battle Chief, his princely source he drew; Two,
more in love she knew, of these the wrath was long and dread, Fierce
Rossa, named the Ruddy-Faced, and Carbre, thatched with red.

To all the three were children born, and all with beauty graced, To
Cathbad, and to Carbre Red, and Rossa Ruddy-faced; A gracious three indeed
were they to whom she gave her love, Fair Magach, brown the lashes were
that slept her eyes above.

Three sons to Rossa Ruddy-faced as children Magach bore; To Carbre sons
again she gave, the count of these was four; And three white shoots of
grace were hers, on these no shame shall fall; To Cathbad children three
she bare, and these were daughters all.

To Cathbad, who in wizard lore and all its arts had might, Three daughters
lovely Magach bore, each clothed in beauty white; All maids who then for
grace were famed in grace those maids surpassed, And Finuchoem,[FN#49]
Ailbhe twain he named, and Deithchim named the last.

[FN#49] Pronounced Finn-hoom, Ail-vy, and Die-himm.

To Finnchoem, wizard Cathbad's child, was born a glorious son, And well
she nursed him, Conall wild, who every field hath won; And Ailbhe glorious
children bare in whom no fear had place, These Ardan, Ainnle, Naisi were,
who came of Usnach's race.

A son to Deithchim fair was born, a bright-cheeked mother she; She bore
but one: Cuchulain of Dun Delga's hold was he:
Of those whom Cathbad's daughters reared the names full well ye know,
And none of these a wound hath feared, or therefore shunned a foe.

The sons of Usnach, who like shields their friends protected well, By
might of hosts on battle-field to death were borne, and fell; And each was
white of skin, and each his friends in love would hold, Now naught remains
for song to teach, the Third of Griefs is told.

THE COMBAT AT THE FORD

INTRODUCTION

This version of the "Combat at the Ford," the best-known episode of the Irish
romance or romantic epic, the "War of Cualnge," will hardly be, by Irish
scholars, considered to want a reference. It is given in the Book of
Leinster, which cannot have been written later than 1150 A.D., and differs
in many respects from the version in the fourteenth-century Book
of Lecan, which is, for the purposes of this text, at least equal
in authority to the Leabbar na h-Uidhri, which must have been written
before 1100 A.D.

Mr. Alfred Nutt has kindly contributed a note on the comparison of the
two versions, which has been placed as a special note at the end of the
translation of the "Combat." To this note may be added the remark that
the whole of the Leabhar na h-Uidhri version of the "War of Cualnge"
seems, to be subject to the same criticisms that have to be passed on
the "Sickbed" and the "Courtship of Etain" in the same volume, viz. that
it is a compilation from two or three different versions of the same story,
and is not a connected and consistent romance, which the version in
the Book of Leinster appears to be. As an illustration of this, the
appearance of Conall Cernach as on the side of Connaught in the early
part of the L.U. version may be mentioned; he is never so represented
in other versions of the "War." In the description of the array of Ulster
at the end of L.U., he is noted as being expected to be with the Ulster
army but as absent (following in this the Book of Leinster, but not a later
manuscript which agrees with the Book of Leinster in the main); then at
the end of the L.U. version Conall again appears in the Connaught army and
saves Conor from Fergus, taking the place of Cormac in the Book
of Leinster version.

Miss Faraday, in her version of the "War" as given in L.U., notes the
change of style at page 82 of her book. Several difficulties similar
to that of the position of Conall could be mentioned; and on the whole it
seems as if the compiler of the manuscript from which both the Leabhar
na h-Uidhri and the Yellow Book of Lecan were copied, combined into one
several different descriptions of the "War," one of which is represented
by the Book of Leinster version.

This version shows no signs of patchwork, at any rate in the story of
the "Combat at the Ford;" which has, ever since it was reintroduced to the
world by O'Curry, been renowned for the chivalry of its action. It forms
one of the books of Aubrey de Vere's "Foray of Queen Meave," and is there
well reproduced, although with several additions; perhaps sufficient attention
has not. been paid to the lofty position of the character, as distinguished
from the prowess, that this version gives to Cuchulain. The first verse,
put in Cuchulain's mouth, strikes a new note, contrasting alike with
the muddle-headed bargaining of Ferdia and Maev, and the somewhat fussy
anxiety of Fergus. The contrast between the way in which Cuchulain
receives Fergus's report of the valour of Ferdia, and that in which Ferdia
receives the praises of Cuchulain from his charioteer, is well worked out;
Cuchulain, conscious of his own strength, accepts all Fergus's praises
of his opponent and adds to them; Ferdia cannot bear to hear of Cuchulain's
valour, and charges his servant with taking a bribe from his enemy in
order to frighten him.
Ferdia boasts loudly of what he will do, Cuchulain apologises for his own
confidence in the issue of the combat, and gently banters Fergus, who is
a bit of a boaster himself, on the care he had taken to choose the time
for the war when king Conor was away, with a modest implication that he
himself was a poor substitute for the king.
Cuchulain's first two stanzas in the opening dialogue between himself
and Ferdia show a spirit quite as truculent as that of his opponent; the
reason of this being, as indicated in the first of these stanzas and more
explicitly stated in the preceding prose, that his anxiety for his
country is outweighing his feeling for his friend; but in the third stanza
he resumes the attitude of conscious strength that marks all his
answers to Fergus; and this, added to a feeling of pity for his friend's
inevitable fate, is maintained up to the end of the tale. In the fourth
stanza, which is an answer to a most insulting speech from Ferdia, he
makes the first of those appeals to his former friend to abandon his
purpose that come from him throughout the first three days of the fight;
even in the fatal battle of the fourth day, he will not at first put
forward all his strength, and only uses the irresistible Gae-Bulg when
driven to it by his foe. The number of Cuchulain's laments after the
battle--there are five of these (one in prose), besides his answers
to Laeg--has been adversely criticised; and it is just possible that one
or more of these come from some other version, and have been incorporated
by a later hand than that of the author; but the only one that seems to
me not to develop the interest is the "brooch of gold," which it may be
noticed is very like the only lament which is preserved in the Book
of Lecan text of the L.U. version.
Cuchulain's allusion to Aife's only son in the first verse lament is especially
noticeable (see note, p. 196).

Ferdia's character, although everywhere inferior to that of his victor,
is also a heroic one; he is represented at the commencement of the
episode as undertaking the fight for fear of disgrace if he refused;
and this does appear to be represented throughout as the true reason;
his early boasts and taunts are obviously intended to conquer a
secret uneasiness, and the motif of a passion for Finnabar with
which Cuchulain charges him hardly appears outside Cuchulain's
speeches, and has not the importance given to it in the Leabhar na
h-Uidhri version.
The motif of resentment against Cuchulain for a fancied insult,
invented by Maev, which is given in the L.U. version as the determining
cause, does not appear in the Leinster version at all; and that of
race enmity of the Firbolg against the Celt, given to him by Aubrey
de Vere, is quite a modern idea and is in none of the old versions.
His dialogue with Maev suggests that, as stated in the text, he was
then slightly intoxicated; his savage language to his servant gives
the idea of a man who feels himself in the wrong and makes himself
out to be worse than he is by attributing to himself the worst
motives, the hope of pay; but as the battle proceeds he shows himself
equal to Cuchulain in generosity, and in the dialogue at the beginning
of the third day's fight his higher character comes out, for while
his old boastfulness appears in one passage of it, and is immediately
repressed, the language of both heroes in this dialogue is noticeable
for a true spirit of chivalry. The mutual compliments, "thy kingly
might," "fair graceful Hound" "gently ruling Hound" recall the
French "Beausire"; it may be also noted that these compliments are
paid even when Ferdia is protesting against Cuchulain's reproaches;
similar language is used elsewhere, as "much thine arms excel" (page
122), and "Cuchulain for beautiful feats renowned" (page 134). It
may be considered that these passages are an indication that the
episode is late, but it should be noticed that the very latest date
that can possibly be assigned to it, the eleventh century, precedes
that of all other known romances of chivalry by at least a hundred
years. To this later attitude of Ferdia, and to that maintained by
Cuchulain throughout the whole episode, nothing in French or Welsh
romance of approximately so early a date can be compared. Is it not
possible that the chivalric tone of the later Welsh romances, like
the "Lady of the Fountain," which is generally supposed to have
come from France, really came from an Irish model? and that this
tone, together with the Arthurian Saga, passed to the Continent?
A great contrast to both the two heroes is afforded by the introduction
of Laeg with his cries of exultation, which come between the dying
groans of Ferdia and the fine prose lament of Cuchulain, increasing
the effect of both. Laeg seems quite unable to see his master's
point of view, and he serves as a foil for Ferdia, just as the
latter's inferiority increases the character of Cuchulain. The
consistency of the whole, and the way in which our sympathy is
awakened for Ferdia contrast with the somewhat disconnected character
of the L.U. version, which as it stands gives a poor idea of the
defeated champion; although, as Mr. Nutt suggests, the lost part
may have improved this idea, and the version has beauties of its
own.
For the convenience of those readers who may be unacquainted with
the story of the war, the following short introduction is given:--

At a time given by the oldest Irish annalists as A.D. 29, the War
of Cualnge was undertaken by Maev, queen of Connaught, against the
kingdom or province of Ulster. Gathering together men from all the
other four provinces of Ireland, Maev marched against Ulster, the
leaders of her army being herself, her husband Ailill, and Fergus
the son of Rog, an exile from Ulster, and formerly, according to
one account, king of that province. Not only had Maev great superiority
in force, but the time she Ed chosen for the war was when Conor,
king of Ulster, and with him nearly all his principal warriors,
were on their sick-bed in accordance with a curse that had fallen
on them in return for a cruel deed that he and his people had done.
One hero however, Cuchulain, the greatest of the Ulster heroes, was
unaffected by this curse; and he, with only a few followers, but
with supernatural aid from demi-gods of whose race he came, had
caused much loss to the queen and her army, so that Maev finally
made this compact: she was each day to provide a champion to oppose
Cuchulain, and was to be permitted to advance so long as that combat
lasted; if her champion was killed, she was to halt her army until
the next morning. Before the Combat at the Ford between Cuchulain
and Ferdia, Cuchulain had killed many of Maev's champions in duel,
and the epic romance of the "War of Cualnge" gives the full story
of these combats and of the end of the war. The episode given in
the following pages commences at the camp of Queen Maev, where her
chiefs are discussing who is to be their champion against Cuchulain
on the following day.

THE COMBAT AT THE FORD
AN EPISODE OF THE CATTLE SPOIL OF CUALNGE IN THE BOOK OF LEINSTER
VERSION
At that time debate was held among the men of Ireland who should
be the man to go early in the morning of the following day to make
combat and fight with Cuchulain. And all agreed that Ferdia, the
son of Daman, the son of Dire, was the man who should go; even the
great and valiant champion of the men of Irross Donnand, for the
manner in which he fought and did battle was like to the manner of
Cuchulain. They had got their skill in arms, and valour, and bravery
from the same teachers, from Scathach, from Uathach, and from
Aife[FN#50]; nor had either of them advantage over the other except
that Cuchulain alone could perform the feat of the Gae-bulg. Yet
Ferdia was fenced by a horny skin-protecting armour, and this should
guard him when he faced a hero in battle and combat at the Ford.
So to Ferdia were sent messengers and heralds; but Ferdia denied
the heralds, and he refused to depart with them, for well he knew
why it was he was called; even to fight against his own friend, his
comrade and fellow-pupil Cuchulain; and for that cause he came not
with the heralds who were sent.
[FN#50] Pronounced Scaha, Ooha, and Eefa: Scaha and Ooha end with
a slight guttural like the ch in the Scotch lock, difficult to
express in English.Thence
walked a little with Creed, who tells me he hears how fine my horses and
coach are, and advises me to avoid being noted for it, which I was vexed
to hear taken notice of, it being what I feared and Povy told me of my
gold-lace sleeves in the Park yesterday, which vexed me also, so as to
resolve never to appear in Court with them, but presently to have them
taken off, as it is fit I should, and so to my wife at Unthanke's, and
coach, and so called at my tailor's to that purpose, and so home, and
after a little walk in the garden, home to supper and to bed.

11th.  My wife again up by four o'clock, to go to gather May-dew; and so
back home by seven, to bed, and by and by I up and to the office, where
all the morning, and dined at noon at home with my people, and so all the
afternoon.  In the evening my wife and I all alone, with the boy, by
water, up as high as Putney almost, with the tide, and back again, neither
staying going nor coming; but talking, and singing, and reading a foolish
copy of verses upon my Lord Mayor's entertaining of all the bachelors,
designed in praise to my Lord Mayor, and so home and to the office a
little, and then home to bed, my eyes being bad.  Some trouble at Court
for fear of the Queen's miscarrying; she being, as they all conclude, far
gone with child.

12th.  Up, and to Westminster Hall, where the term is, and this the first
day of my being there, and here by chance met Roger Pepys, come to town
the last night: I was glad to see him.  After some talk with him and
others, and among others Sir Charles Harbord and Sidney Montagu, the
latter of whom is to set out to-morrow towards Flanders and Italy, I
invited them to dine with me to-morrow, and so to Mrs. Martin's lodging,
who come to town last night, and there je did hazer her, she having been a
month, I think, at Portsmouth with her husband, newly come home from the
Streights.  But, Lord!  how silly the woman talks of her great
entertainment there, and how all the gentry come to visit her, and that
she believes her husband is worth L6 or L700, which nevertheless I am glad
of, but I doubt they will spend it a fast.  Thence home, and after dinner
my wife and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there, in the side
balcony, over against the musick, did hear, but not see, a new play, the
first day acted, "The Roman Virgin," an old play, and but ordinary, I
thought; but the trouble of my eyes with the light of the candles did
almost kill me.  Thence to my Lord Sandwich's, and there had a promise
from Sidney to come and dine with me to-morrow; and so my wife and I home
in our coach, and there find my brother John, as I looked for, come to
town from Ellington, where, among other things, he tell me the first news
that my [sister Jackson] is with child, and fat gone, which I know not
whether it did more trouble or please me, having no great care for my
friends to have children; though I love other people's.  So, glad to see
him, we to supper, and so to bed.

13th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, it being a rainy foul
day.  But at noon comes my Lord Hinchingbroke, and Sidney, and Sir Charles
Harbord, and Roger Pepys, and dined with me; and had a good dinner, and
very merry with; us all the afternoon, it being a farewell to Sidney; and
so in the evening they away, and I to my business at the Office and so to
supper, and talk with my brother, and so to bed.

14th.  Up, and to St. James's to the Duke of York, and thence to White
Hall, where we met about office business, and then at noon with Mr. Wren
to Lambeth, to dinner with the Archbishop of Canterbury; the first time I
was ever there and I have long longed for it; where a noble house, and
well furnished with good pictures and furniture, and noble attendance in
good order, and great deal of company, though an ordinary day; and
exceeding great cheer, no where better, or so much, that ever I think I
saw, for an ordinary table: and the Bishop mighty kind to me, particularly
desiring my company another time, when less company there. Most of the
company gone, and I going, I heard by a gentleman of a sermon that was to
be there; and so I staid to hear it, thinking it serious, till by and by
the gentleman told me it was a mockery, by one Cornet Bolton, a very
gentleman-like man, that behind a chair did pray and preach like a
Presbyter Scot that ever I heard in my life, with all the possible
imitation in grimaces and voice.  And his text about the hanging up their
harps upon the willows: and a serious good sermon too, exclaiming against
Bishops, and crying up of my good Lord Eglinton, a till it made us all
burst; but I did wonder to have the Bishop at this time to make himself
sport with things of this kind, but I perceive it was shewn him as a
rarity; and he took care to have the room-door shut, but there were about
twenty gentlemen there, and myself, infinitely pleased with the novelty.
So over to White Hall, to a little Committee of Tangier; and thence
walking in the Gallery, I met Sir Thomas Osborne, who, to my great
content, did of his own accord fall into discourse with me, with so much
professions of value and respect, placing the whole virtue of the Office
of the Navy upon me, and that for the Comptroller's place, no man in
England was fit for it but me, when Sir J. Minnes, as he says it is
necessary, is removed: but then he knows not what to do for a man in my
place; and in discourse, though I have no mind to the other, I did bring
in Tom Hater to be the fittest man in the world for it, which he took good
notice of.  But in the whole I was mightily pleased, reckoning myself now
fifty per cent. securer in my place than I did before think myself to be.
Thence to Unthanke's, and there find my wife, but not dressed, which vexed
me, because going to the Park, it being a most pleasant day after
yesterday's rain, which lays all the dust, and most people going out
thither, which vexed me.  So home, sullen; but then my wife and I by
water, with my brother, as high as Fulham, talking and singing, and
playing the rogue with the Western barge-men, about the women of Woolwich,
which mads them, an so back home to supper and to bed.

15th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning.  Dined at home and Creed
with me home, and I did discourse about evening some reckonings with him
in the afternoon; but I could not, for my eyes, do it, which troubled me,
and vexed him that would not; but yet we were friends, I advancing him
more without it, and so to walk all the afternoon together in the garden;
and I perceive still he do expect a change in of matters, especially as to
religion, and fits himself for it by professing himself for it in his
discourse.  He gone, I to my business at my Office, and so at night home
to supper, and to bed.

16th (Lord's day).  My wife and I at church, our pew filled with Mrs.
Backewell, and six more that she brought with her, which vexed me at her
confidence.  Dined at home and W. Batelier with us, and I all the
afternoon drawing up a foul draught of my petition to the Duke of York,
about my eyes, for leave to spend three or four months out of the Office,
drawing it so as to give occasion to a voyage abroad which I did, to my
pretty good liking; and then with my wife to Hyde Park, where a good deal
of company, and good weather, and so home to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and to several places doing business, and the home to dinner,
and then my wife and I and brother John by coach to the King's playhouse,
and saw "The Spanish Curate" revived, which is a pretty good play, but my
eyes troubled with seeing it, mightily.  Thence carried them and Mr.
Gibson, who met me at my Lord Brouncker's with a fair copy of my petition,
which I thought to shew the Duke of York this night, but could not, and
therefore carried them to the Park, where they had never been, and so home
to supper and to bed.  Great the news now of the French taking St.
Domingo, in Spaniola, from the Spaniards, which troubles us, that they
should have it, and have the honour of taking it, when we could not.

18th.  Up, and to St. James's and other places, and then to the office,
where all the morning.  At noon home and dined in my wife's chamber, she
being much troubled with the tooth-ake, and I staid till a surgeon of hers
come, one Leeson, who hath formerly drawn her mouth, and he advised her to
draw it: so I to the Office, and by and by word is come that she hath
drawn it, which pleased me, it being well done.  So I home, to comfort
her, and so back to the office till night, busy, and so home to supper and
to bed.

19th.  With my coach to St. James's; and there finding the Duke of York
gone to muster his men, in Hyde Park, I alone with my boy thither, and
there saw more, walking out of my coach as other gentlemen did, of a
soldier's trade, than ever I did in my life: the men being mighty fine,
and their Commanders, particularly the Duke of Monmouth; but me-thought
their trade but very easy as to the mustering of their men, and the men
but indifferently ready to perform what was commanded, in the handling of
their arms.  Here the news was first talked of Harry Killigrew's being
wounded in nine places last night, by footmen, in the highway, going from
the Park in a hackney-coach towards Hammersmith, to his house at Turnham
Greene: they being supposed to be my Lady Shrewsbury's men, she being by,
in her coach with six horses; upon an old grudge of his saying openly that
he had lain with her.  Thence by and by to White Hall, and there I waited
upon the King and Queen all dinner-time, in the Queen's lodgings, she
being in her white pinner and apron, like a woman with child; and she
seemed handsomer plain so, than dressed.  And by and by, dinner done, I
out, and to walk in the Gallery, for the Duke of York's coming out; and
there, meeting Mr. May, he took me down about four o'clock to Mr.
Chevins's lodgings, and all alone did get me a dish of cold chickens, and
good wine; and I dined like a prince, being before very hungry and empty.
By and by the Duke of York comes, and readily took me to his closet, and
received my petition, and discoursed about my eyes, and pitied me, and
with much kindness did give me his consent to be absent, and approved of
my proposition to go into Holland to observe things there, of the Navy;
but would first ask the King's leave, which he anon did, and did tell me
that the King would be a good master to me, these were his words, about my
eyes, and do like of my going into Holland, but do advise that nobody
should know of my going thither, but pretend that I did go into the
country somewhere, which I liked well.  Glad of this, I home, and thence
took out my wife, and to Mr. Holliard's about a swelling in her cheek, but
he not at home, and so round by Islington and eat and drink, and so home,
and after supper to bed.  In discourse this afternoon, the Duke of York
did tell me that he was the most amazed at one thing just now, that ever
he was in his life, which was, that the Duke of Buckingham did just now
come into the Queen's bed-chamber, where the King was, and much mixed
company, and among others, Tom Killigrew, the father of Harry, who was
last night wounded so as to be in danger of death, and his man is quite
dead; and [Buckingham] there in discourse did say that he had spoke with
some one that was by (which all the world must know that it must be his
whore, my Lady Shrewsbury), who says that they did not mean to hurt, but
beat him, and that he did run first at them with his sword; so that he do
hereby clearly discover that he knows who did it, and is of conspiracy
with them, being of known conspiracy with her, which the Duke of York did
seem to be pleased with, and said it might, perhaps, cost him his life in
the House of Lords; and I find was mightily pleased with it, saying it was
the most impudent thing, as well as the most foolish, that ever he knew
man do in all his life.

20th.  Up and to the Office, where all the morning.  At noon, the whole
Office--Brouncker, J. Minnes, T. Middleton, Samuel Pepys, and Captain Cox
to dine with the Parish, at the Three Tuns, this day being Ascension-day,
where exceeding good discourse among the merchants, and thence back home,
and after a little talk with my wife, to my office did a great deal of
business, and so with my eyes might weary, and my head full of care how to
get my accounts and business settled against my journey, home to supper,
and bed.  Yesterday, at my coming home, I found that my wife had, on a
sudden, put away Matt upon some falling out, and I doubt my wife did call
her ill names by my wife's own discourse; but I did not meddle to say
anything upon it, but let her go, being not sorry, because now we may get
one that speaks French, to go abroad with us.

21st.  I waited with the Office upon the Duke of York in the morning.
Dined at home, where Lewis Phillips the friend of his, dined with me. In
the afternoon at the Office.  In the evening visited by Roger Pepys and
Philip Packer and so home.

22nd.  Dined at home, the rest of the whole day at office.

23rd (Lord's day).  "Do not mock so. What do you want of me?"
"I am not mocking," persisted Rose, still in a somewhat jeering
tone.
"You, too, ought to dance once, for you are a young girl, and there
will be some of your equals at the wedding--our stable-boy is
going, or perhaps some farmer's son will dance with you.

I'll send you some one who is without a partner."
"Let me be in peace--or I shall prick you."
"My sister-in-law is right," said the young farmer's wife, who, until now,
had sat silent. "I'll never give you a good word again if you don't go to
the dance today. Come--sit down, and I will get you ready."
Barefoot felt herself flushing crimson as she sat there while her mistress
dressed her and brushed her hair away from her face and turned it all
back; and she almost sank from her chair, when the farmer's wife said:

"I am going to arrange your hair as the Allgau girls wear it.

That will suit you very well, for you look like an Allgau girl yourself--sturdy,
and brown, and round.

You look like Dame Landfried's daughter at Zusmarshofen."
"Why like her daughter? What made you think of her?" asked Barefoot, and
she trembled all over.

How was it that she was just now reminded again of Dame Landfried, who had
been in her mind from childhood, and who had once appeared to her like the
benevolent spirit in a fairy-tale? But Barefoot had no ring that she
could turn and cause her to appear; but mentally she could conjure her
up, and that she often did, almost involuntarily.

"Hold still, or I'll pull your hair," said the farmer's wife; and Barefoot
sat motionless, scarcely daring to breathe. And while her hair was
being parted in the middle, and she sat with her arms folded and
allowed her mistress to do what she liked with her, and while her mistress,
who was expecting a baby very soon, bustled about her, she really felt
as if she had suddenly been bewitched; she did not say a word for fear of
breaking the charm, but sat with her eyes cast down in modest submission.

"I wish I could dress you thus for your own wedding," said the farmer's
wife, who seemed to be overflowing with kindness today. "I should
like to see you mistress of a respectable farm, and you would not be a
bad bargain for any man; but nowadays such things don't happen, for money
runs after money.

Well, do you be contented--so long as I live you shall not want for
anything; and if I die--and I don't know, but I seem to fear the
heavy hour so much this time--look, you will not forsake my children,
but will be a mother to them, will you not?"
"Oh, good heavens! How can you think of such a thing?" cried Barefoot,
and the tears ran down her cheeks. "That is a sin; for one may
commit a sin by letting thoughts enter one's mind that are not
right."At the office all the morning, dined at home, Mr. Hollier with me.
Presented this day by Mr. Browne with a book of drawing by him, lately
printed, which cost me 20s. to him.  In the afternoon to the Temple, to
meet with Auditor Aldworth about my interest account, but failed meeting
him.  To visit my cozen Creed, and found her ill at home, being with
child, and looks poorly.  Thence to her husband, at Gresham College, upon
some occasions of Tangier; and so home, with Sir John Bankes with me, to
Mark Lane.

28th.  To St. James's, where the King's being with the Duke of York
prevented a meeting of the Tangier Commission.  But, Lord! what a deal of
sorry discourse did I hear between the King and several Lords about him
here!  but very mean methought.  So with Creed to the Excise Office, and
back to White Hall, where, in the Park, Sir G. Carteret did give me an
account of his discourse lately, with the Commissioners of Accounts, who
except against many things, but none that I find considerable; among
others, that of the Officers of the Navy selling of the King's goods, and
particularly my providing him with calico flags, which having been by
order, and but once, when necessity, and the King's apparent profit,
justified it, as conformable to my particular duty, it will prove to my
advantage that it be enquired into.  Nevertheless, having this morning
received from them a demand of an account of all monies within their
cognizance, received and issued by me, I was willing, upon this hint, to
give myself rest, by knowing whether their meaning therein might reach
only to my Treasurership for Tangier, or the monies employed on this
occasion.  But you are right; look, if you like, I'll go this very day to
Scheckennarre and tell him that my heart doesn't cherish a single hard
thought against him."
"You need not do that--that would be too much. But because you listen
to reason, I will help you all I can."
"It would be best if you went with me."
"No, I can't do that--I don't know why, but I can't. But I have not sworn
not to go--if you write to me that you are doing well at uncle's, then I'll
come after you. But to go out into the fog, where one knows nothing--well,
I'm not fond of making changes anyway, and after all I'm doing fairly
well here. But now let us consider how you are to get away."
Damie's savings were very trifling, and Barefoot's were not enough
to make up the deficiency.

The King's birth-day.  To White Hall, where all very gay; and
particularly the Prince of Tuscany very fine, and is the first day of his
appearing out of mourning, since he come.  And then you must notice
if she can talk and work at the same time, if she has something in her
hand while she is talking to you, and if she stops every time she says a
word and only pretends to be working. I tell you that industry is
everything in a woman.And so
home.

