10th.  Up, and to my office a little, and then, in the garden, find Sir W.
Pen; and he and I to Sir W. Batten, where he tells us news of the new
disorders of Hogg and his men in taking out of 30 tons of wine out of a
prize of ours, which makes us mad; and that, added to the unwillingness of
the men to go longer abroad without money, do lead us to conclude not to
keep her abroad any longer, of which I am very glad, for I do not like our
doings with what we have already got, Sir W. Batten ordering the disposal
of our wines and goods, and he leaves it to Morrice the cooper, who I take
to be a cunning proud knave, so that I am very desirous to adventure no
further.  So away by water from the Old Swan to White Hall, and there to
Sir W. Coventry's, with whom I staid a great while longer than I have done
these many months, and had opportunity of talking with him, and he do
declare himself troubled that he hath any thing left him to do in the
Navy, and would be glad to part with his whole profits and concernments in
it, his pains and care being wholly ineffectual during this lack of money;
the expense growing infinite, the service not to be done, and discipline
and order not to be kept, only from want of money. I begun to discourse
with him the business of Tangier, which by the removal of my Lord
Bellasses, is now to have a new Governor; and did move him, that at this
season all the business of reforming the garrison might be considered,
while nobody was to be offended; and I told him it is plain that we do
overspend our revenue: that the place is of no more profit to the King
than it was the first day, nor in itself of better credit; no more people
of condition willing to live there, nor any thing like a place likely to
turn his Majesty to account: that it hath been hitherto, and, for aught I
see, likely only to be used as a job to do a kindness to some Lord, or he
that can get to be Governor.  Sir W. Coventry agreed with me, so as to
say, that unless the King hath the wealth of the Mogul, he would be a
beggar to have his businesses ordered in the manner they now are: that his
garrisons must be made places only of convenience to particular persons
that he hath moved the Duke of York in it; and that it was resolved to
send no Governor thither till there had been Commissioners sent to put the
garrison in order, so as that he that goes may go with limitations and
rules to follow, and not to do as he please, as the rest have hitherto
done.  That he is not afeard to speak his mind, though to the displeasure
of any man; and that I know well enough; but that, when it is come, as it
is now, that to speak the truth in behalf of the King plainly do no good,
but all things bore down by other measures than by what is best for the
King, he hath no temptation to be perpetually fighting of battles, it
being more easy to him do those terms to suffer things to go on without
giving any man offence, than to have the same thing done, and he contract
the displeasure of all the world, as he must do, that will be for the
King. I did offer him to draw up my thoughts in this matter to present to
the Duke of York, which he approved of, and I do think to do it.  So away,
and by coach going home saw Sir G. Carteret going towards White Hall. So
'light and by water met him, and with him to the King's little chapel; and
afterwards to see the King heal the King's Evil, wherein no pleasure, I
having seen it before; and then to see him and the Queene and Duke of York
and his wife, at dinner in the Queene's lodgings; and so with Sir G.
Carteret to his lodgings to dinner; where very good company; and after
dinner he and I to talk alone how things are managed, and to what ruin we
must come if we have not a peace.  He did tell me one occasion, how Sir
Thomas Allen, which I took for a man of known courage and service on the
King's side, was tried for his life in Prince Rupert's fleete, in the late
times, for cowardice, and condemned to be hanged, and fled to Jersey;
where Sir G. Carteret received him, not knowing the reason of his coming
thither: and that thereupon Prince Rupert wrote to the Queen-Mother his
dislike of Sir G. Carteret's receiving a person that stood condemned; and
so Sir G. Carteret was forced to bid him betake himself to some other
place.  This was strange to me.  Our Commissioners are preparing to go to
Bredah to the treaty, and do design to be going the next week.  So away by
coach home, where there should have been a meeting about Carcasse's
business, but only my Lord and I met, and so broke up, Carcasse having
only read his answer to his charge, which is well writ, but I think will
not prove to his advantage, for I believe him to be a very rogue.  So
home, and Balty and I to look Mr. Fenn at Sir G. Carteret's office in
Broad Streete, and there missing him and at the banker's hard by, we home,
and I down by water to Deptford Dockyard, and there did a little business,
and so home back again all the way reading a little piece I lately bought,
called "The Virtuoso, or the Stoicke," proposing many things paradoxical
to our common opinions, wherein in some places he speaks well, but
generally is but a sorry man.  So home and to my chamber to enter my two
last days' journall, and this, and then to supper and to bed.  Blessed be
God!  I hear that my father is better and better, and will, I hope, live
to enjoy some cheerful days more; but it is strange what he writes me,
that Mr. Weaver, of Huntingdon, who was a lusty, likely, and but a
youngish man, should be dead.

11th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and (which is
now rare, he having not been with us twice I think these six months) Sir
G. Carteret come to us upon some particular business of his office, and
went away again.  At noon I to the 'Change, and there hear by Mr. Hublon
of the loss of a little East Indiaman, valued at about L20,000, coming
home alone, and safe to within ten leagues of Scilly, and there snapt by a
French Caper.  Our merchants do much pray for peace; and he tells me that
letters are come that the Dutch have stopped the fitting of their great
ships, and the coming out of a fleete of theirs of 50 sayle, that was
ready to come out; but I doubt the truth of it yet.  Thence to Sir G.
Carteret, by his invitation to his office, where my Lady was, and dined
with him, and very merry and good people they are, when pleased, as any I
know.  After dinner I to the office, where busy till evening, and then
with Balty to Sir G. Carteret's office, and there with Mr. Fenn despatched
the business of Balty's L1500 he received for the contingencies of the
fleete, whereof he received about L253 in pieces of eight at a goldsmith's
there hard by, which did puzzle me and him to tell; for I could not tell
the difference by sight, only by bigness, and that is not always
discernible, between a whole and half-piece and quarterpiece.  Having
received this money I home with Balty and it, and then abroad by coach
with my wife and set her down at her father's, and I to White Hall,
thinking there to have seen the Duchess of Newcastle's coming this night
to Court, to make a visit to the Queene, the King having been with her
yesterday, to make her a visit since her coming to town.  The whole story
of this lady is a romance, and all she do is romantick.  Her footmen in
velvet coats, and herself in an antique dress, as they say; and was the
other day at her own play, "The Humourous Lovers;" the most ridiculous
thing that ever was wrote, but yet she and her Lord mightily pleased with
it; and she, at the end, made her respects to the players from her box,
and did give them thanks.  There is as much expectation of her coming to
Court, that so people may come to see her, as if it were the Queen of
Sheba; but I lost my labour, for she did not come this night.  So, meeting
Mr. Brisband, he took me up to my Lady Jemimah's chamber, who is let blood
to-day, and so there we sat and talked an hour, I think, very merry and
one odd thing or other, and so away, and I took up my wife at her tailor's
(whose wife is brought to bed, and my wife must be godmother), and so with
much ado got a coach to carry us home, it being late, and so to my
chamber, having little left to do at my office, my eyes being a little
sore by reason of my reading a small printed book the other day after it
was dark, and so to supper and to bed.  It comes in my head to set down
that there have been two fires in the City, as I am told for certain, and
it is so, within this week.

12th.  Up, and when ready, and to my office, to do a little business, and,
coming homeward again, saw my door and hatch open, left so by Luce, our
cookmayde, which so vexed me, that I did give her a kick in our entry, and
offered a blow at her, and was seen doing so by Sir W. Pen's footboy,
which did vex me to the heart, because I know he will be telling their
family of it; though I did put on presently a very pleasant face to the
boy, and spoke kindly to him, as one without passion, so as it may be he
might not think I was angry, but yet I was troubled at it.  So away by
water to White Hall, and there did our usual business before the Duke of
York; but it fell out that, discoursing of matters of money, it rose to a
mighty heat, very high words arising between Sir G. Carteret and [Sir] W.
Coventry, the former in his passion saying that the other should have
helped things if they were so bad; and the other answered, so he would,
and things should have been better had he been Treasurer of the Navy.  I
was mightily troubled at this heat, and it will breed ill blood, I fear;
but things are in that bad condition that I do daily expect when we shall
all fly in one another's faces, when we shall be reduced, every one, to
answer for himself.  We broke up; and I soon after to Sir G. Carteret's
chamber, where I find the poor man telling his lady privately, and she
weeping.  I went into them, and did seem, as indeed I was, troubled for
this; and did give the best advice I could, which, I think, did please
them: and they do apprehend me their friend, as indeed I am, for I do take
the Vice-chamberlain for a most honest man.  He did assure me that he was
not, all expences and things paid, clear in estate L15,000 better than he
was when the King come in; and that the King and Lord Chancellor did know
that he was worth, with the debt the King owed him, L50,000, I think, he
said, when the King come into England.  I did pacify all I could, and then
away by water home, there to write letters and things for the dispatch of
Balty away this day to sea; and after dinner he did go, I having given him
much good counsell; and I have great hopes that he will make good use of
it, and be a good man, for I find him willing to take pains and very
sober.  He being gone, I close at my office all the afternoon getting off
of hand my papers, which, by the late holidays and my laziness, were grown
too many upon my hands, to my great trouble, and therefore at it as late
as my eyes would give me leave, and then by water down to Redriffe,
meaning to meet my wife, who is gone with Mercer, Barker, and the boy (it
being most sweet weather) to walk, and I did meet with them, and walked
back, and then by the time we got home it was dark, and we staid singing
in the garden till supper was ready, and there with great pleasure.  But I
tried my girles Mercer and Barker singly one after another, a single song,
"At dead low ebb," etc., and I do clearly find that as to manner of
singing the latter do much the better, the other thinking herself as I do
myself above taking pains for a manner of singing, contenting ourselves
with the judgment and goodness of eare.  So to supper, and then parted and
to bed.

13th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and strange
how the false fellow Commissioner.  Pett was eager to have had Carcasses
business brought on to-day that he might give my Lord Bruncker (who hates
him, I am sure, and hath spoke as much against him to the King in my
hearing as any man) a cast of his office in pleading for his man Carcasse,
but I did prevent its being brought on to-day, and so broke up, and I home
to dinner, and after dinner with a little singing with some pleasure alone
with my poor wife, and then to the office, where sat all the afternoon
till late at night, and then home to supper and to bed, my eyes troubling
me still after candle-light, which troubles me.  Wrote to my father, who,
I am glad to hear, is at some ease again, and I long to have him in town,
that I may see what can be done for him here; for I would fain do all I
can that I may have him live, and take pleasure in my doing well in the
world.  This afternoon come Mrs. Lowther to me to the office, and there je
did toker ses mammailles and did baiser them and su bocca, which she took
fort willingly .  .  .  .

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and to read a little in my new History of Turkey,
and so with my wife to church, and then home, where is little Michell and
my pretty Betty and also Mercer, and very merry.  A good dinner of roast
beef.  After dinner I away to take water at the Tower, and thence to
Westminster, where Mrs. Martin was not at home.  So to White Hall, and
there walked up and down, and among other things visited Sir G. --In many
districts robbing and plundering was going on with perfect impunity; the
roads were infested by bands of highwaymen; numerous assaults occurred,
and several stage lines were considered unsafe. The statements of Major
General Woods, Brigadier General Kilby Smith and Colonel Gilchrist,
(accompanying documents Nos. 11, 9 and 18,) give a terrible picture of the
state of things in the localities they refer to. It is stated that
civil officers are either unwilling or unable to enforce the laws; that
one man does not dare to testify against another for fear of being murdered,
and that the better elements of society are kept down by lawless characters
under a system of terrorism. From my own observation I know that
these things are not confined to the districts mentioned in the documents
above referred to.

Both the governors of Alabama and Mississippi complained of it in official
proclamations. Cotton, horse and cattle stealing was going on in all the
States I visited on an extensive scale. Such a state of demoralization
would call for extraordinary measures in any country, and it is difficult
to conceive how, in the face of the inefficiency of the civil authorities,
the removal of the troops can be thought of.

In speaking above of the improbability of an insurrectionary movement on
a large scale, I did not mean to say that I considered resistance in
detail to the execution of the laws of Congress and the measures of the
government impossible. Of all subjects connected with the negro question I
shall speak in another part of this report. But there is another matter
claiming the attention and foresight of the government. It is well known
that the levying of taxes for the payment of the interest on our national
debt is, and will continue to be, very unpopular in the south. It is
true, no striking demonstrations have as yet been made of any decided
unwillingness on the part of the people to contribute to the
discharge of our national obligations. But most of the conversations I
had with southerners upon this subject led me to apprehend that they,
politicians and people, are rather inclined to ask money of the government
as compensation for their emancipated slaves, for the rebuilding of the
levees on the Mississippi, and various kinds of damage done by our
armies for military purposes, than, as the current expression is,
to "help paying the expenses of the whipping they have received."

In fact, there are abundant indications in newspaper articles, public
speeches, and electioneering documents of candidates, which render it
eminently probable that on the claim of compensation for their emancipated
slaves the southern States, as soon as readmitted to representation in
Congress, will be almost a unit. In the Mississippi convention the idea
was broached by Mr. Potter, in an elaborate speech, to have the late slave
States relieved from taxation "for years to come," in consideration
of "debt due them" for the emancipated slaves; and this plea I have
frequently heard advocated in private conversations. I need not go into
details as to the efforts made in some of the southern States in favor of
the assumption by those States of their debts contracted during the
rebellion. It may be assumed with certainty that those who want to have
the southern people, poor as they are, taxed for the payment of rebel debts,
do not mean to have them taxed for the purpose of meeting our national
obligations. But whatever devices may be resorted to, present indications
justify the apprehension that the enforcement of our revenue laws will
meet with a refractory spirit, and may require sterner measures than the
mere sending of revenue officers into that part of the country.

I have annexed to this report numerous letters addressed to me by gentlemen
whose views on the loyalty of the southern people and kindred topics, formed
as they are upon an extended observation and long experience, are entitled
to consideration.

(Letter of General Gillmore, accompanying document No. 1; letter of Dr.
Mackey, No. 2; letter of Mr.
Sawyer, No. 3; letter of General Hatch, No. 4; letter of Mr. Pilsbury,
No.
5; statement of General Steedman, No. 6; letter of General Croxton, No.
7; letter of General Canby, No. 8; letter of General Kirby Smith, No. 9,
&c.) In these papers a variety of opinions is expressed, some to a
certain extent sanguine, others based upon a less favorable experience. I
offer them to you, without exception, as they came to me. Many of the
gentlemen who wrote them have never been in any way connected with party
politics, and their utterances may be looked upon as coming from unbiassed
and impartial observers.

THE NEGRO QUESTION--FIRST ASPECTS.

The principal cause of that want of national spirit which has existed in
the south so long, and at last gave birth to the rebellion, was, that the
southern people cherished, cultivated, idolized their peculiar
interests and institutions in preference to those which they had
in common with the rest of the American people.

Hence the importance of the negro question as an integral part of the
question of union in general, and the question of reconstruction in
particular.

When the war came to a close, the labor system of the south was already much
disturbed. During the progress of military operations large numbers of
slaves had left their masters and followed the columns of our armies; others
had taken refuge in our camps; many thousands had enlisted in the service
of the national government. Extensive settlements of negroes had been formed
along the seaboard and the banks of the Mississippi, under the supervision
of army officers and treasury agents, and the government was feeding the
colored refugees, who could not be advantageously employed, in the
so-called contraband camps. Many slaves had also been removed by their
masters, as our armies penetrated the country, either to Texas or to
the interior of Georgia and Alabama. Thus a considerable portion of the
laboring force had been withdrawn from its former employments. But a
majority of the slaves remained on the plantations to which they belonged,
especially in those parts of the country which were not touched
by the war, and where, consequently, the emancipation proclamation
was not enforced by the military power.

Although not ignorant of the stake they had in the result of the
contest, the patient bondmen waited quietly for the development of things.
But as soon as the struggle was finally decided, and our forces were
scattered about in detachments to occupy the country, the so far unmoved
masses began to stir. The report went among them that their liberation
was no longer a mere contingency, but a fixed fact. Large numbers
of colored people left the plantations; many flocked to our military
posts and camps to obtain the certainty of their freedom, and others
walked away merely for the purpose of leaving the places on which
they had been held in slavery, and because they could now go with
impunity.

     Still others, and their number was by no means inconsiderable,
     remained with their former masters and continued their work on the
     field, but under new and as yet unsettled conditions, and under the
     agitating influence of a feeling of restlessness. In some localities,
     however, where our troops had not yet penetrated and where no
     military post was within reach, planters endeavored and
     partially succeeded in maintaining between themselves and the
negroes the relation of master and slave, partly by concealing from
them the great changes that had taken place, and partly by terrorizing
them into submission to their behests.

But aside from these exceptions, the country found itself thrown into that
confusion which is naturally inseparable from a change so great and so
sudden. The white people were afraid of the negroes, and the negroes did
not trust the white people; the military power of the national government
stood there, and was looked up to, as the protector of both.

Upon this power devolved the task to bring order into that chaos. But
the order to be introduced was a new order, of which neither the late
masters nor the late slaves had an adequate conception. All the elements
of society being afloat, the difficulties were immense. The military
officers and agents of the Freedmen's Bureau, to whom the negroes
applied for advice and guidance, either procured them such employment as
could be found, or persuaded them to return to their plantations and
to continue in the cultivation of the crops, promising them that their
liberty, rights, and interests should be protected. Upon the planters they
urged the necessity of making fair and equitable contracts with the
freedmen, admonishing them to treat their laborers as free men ought to be
treated.
These efforts met with such success as the difficulties surrounding the
problem permitted to expect. Large numbers of negroes went back to the
fields, according to the advice they had received, but considerable
accumulations still remained in and around the towns and along the
seaboard, where there was no adequate amount of profitable employment
for them.

The making and approving of contracts progressed as rapidly as the small
number of officers engaged in that line of duty made it possible, but
not rapidly in proportion to the vast amount of work to be accomplished.
The business experience of many of the officers was but limited; here and
there experiments were tried which had to be given up.
In numerous cases contracts were made and then broken, either by the
employers or the laborers, and the officers in charge were overwhelmed
with complaints from both sides. While many planters wanted to have
the laborers who had left them back on their plantations, others drove
those that had remained away, and thus increased the number of the
unemployed.
Moreover, the great change had burst upon the country in the midst of the
agricultural labor season when the crops that were in the ground
required steady work to make them produce a satisfactory yield, and
the interruption of labor, which could not but be very extensive, caused
considerable damage. In one word, the efforts made could not prevent or
remedy, in so short a time, the serious disorders which are always connected
with a period of precipitous transition, and which, although natural,
are exceedingly embarrassing to those who have to deal with them.

The solution of the social problem in the south, if left to the free action
of the southern people, will depend upon two things: 1, upon the ideas
entertained by the whites, the "ruling class," of the problem, and the
manner in which they act upon their ideas; and 2, upon the capacity
and conduct of the colored people.

OPTIONS OF THE WHITES.

That the result of the free labor experiment made under circumstances so
extremely unfavorable should at once be a perfect success, no reasonable
person would expect.

Nevertheless, a large majority of the southern men with whom I came into
contact announced their opinions with so positive an assurance as to
produce the impression that their minds were fully made up. In at least
nineteen cases of twenty the reply I received to my inquiry about their
views on the new system was uniformly this: "You cannot make the negro
work, without physical compulsion." I heard this hundreds of times, heard
it wherever I went, heard it in nearly the same words from so many different
persons, that at last I came to the conclusion that this is the prevailing
sentiment among the southern people. There are exceptions to
this rule, but, as far as my information extends, far from enough to
affect the rule. In the accompanying documents you will find an abundance
of proof in support of this statement. There is hardly a paper relative
to the negro question annexed to this report which does not, in some
direct or indirect way, corroborate it.

Unfortunately the disorders necessarily growing out of the transition
state continually furnished food for argument. I found but few people who
were willing to make due allowance for the adverse influence of exceptional
circumstances. By a large majority of those I came in contact with, and
they mostly belonged to the more intelligent class, every irregularity
that occurred was directly charged against the system of free labor.
If negroes walked away from the plantations, it was conclusive proof
of the incorrigible instability of the negro, and the impracticability
of free negro labor. If some individual negroes violated the terms of
their contract, it proved unanswerably that no negro had, or ever would
have, a just conception of the binding force of a contract, and that this
system of free negro labor was bound to be a failure. If some negroes
shirked, or did not perform their task with sufficient alacrity,
it was produced as irrefutable evidence to show that physical compulsion
was actually indispensable to make the negro work. If negroes, idlers
or refugees crawling about the towns, applied to the authorities for
subsistence, it was quoted as incontestably establishing the point that
the negro was too improvident to take care of himself, and must necessarily
be consigned to the care of a master. I heard a Georgia planter argue
most seriously that one of his negroes had shown himself certainly unfit
for freedom because he impudently refused to submit to a whipping.

I frequently went into an argument with those putting forth such general
assertions, quoting instances in which negro laborers were working
faithfully, and to the entire satisfaction of their employers, as the
employers themselves had informed me. In a majority of cases the reply was
that we northern people did not understand the negro, but that they (the
southerners) did; that as to the particular instances I quoted I was
probably mistaken; that I had not closely investigated the cases, or had
been deceived by my informants; that they _knew_ the negro would
not work without compulsion, and that nobody could make them believe he
would.
Arguments like these naturally finished such discussions. It frequently
struck me that persons who conversed about every other subject calmly and
sensibly would lose their temper as soon as the negro question was
touched.

EFFECTS OF SUCH OPINIONS, AND GENERAL TREATMENT OF THE NEGRO.

A belief, conviction, or prejudice, or whatever you may call it, so
widely spread and apparently so deeply rooted as this, that the negro
will not work without physical compulsion, is certainly calculated to
have a very serious influence upon the conduct of the people
entertaining it.

     It naturally produced a desire to preserve slavery in its original
     form as much and as long as possible--and you may, perhaps, remember
     the admission made by one of the provisional governors, over two
     months after the close of the war, that the people of his State
     still indulged in a lingering hope slavery might yet be preserved--or
     to introduce into the new system that element of physical compulsion
which would make the negro work.

Efforts were, indeed, made to hold the negro in his old state of subjection,
especially in such localities where our military forces had not yet penetrated,
or where the country was not garrisoned in detail.
Here and there planters succeeded for a limited period to keep their
former slaves in ignorance, or at least doubt, about their new rights;
but the main agency employed for that purpose was force and intimidation.
In many instances negroes who walked away from the plantations, or were
found upon the roads, were shot or otherwise severely punished, which was
calculated to produce the impression among those remaining with their
masters that an attempt to escape from slavery would result in certain
destruction. A large proportion of the many acts of violence committed
is undoubtedly attributable to this motive. The documents attached to
this report abound in testimony to this effect.

For the sake of illustration I will give some instances:

Brigadier General Fessenden reported to Major General Gillmore from
Winnsboro, South Carolina, July 19, as follows: "The spirit of the
people, especially in those districts not subject to the salutary
influence of General Sherman's army, is that of concealed and, in some
instances, of open hostility, though there are some who strive with honorable
good faith to promote a thorough reconciliation between the government and
their people. A spirit of bitterness and persecution manifests itself
towards the negroes. They are shot and abused outside the immediate
protection of our forces _by men who announce their determination to
take the law into their own hands, in defiance of our authority_. To
protect the negro and punish these still rebellious individuals it will
be necessary to have this country pretty thickly settled with soldiers."
I received similar verbal reports from other parts of South Carolina. To
show the hopes still indulged in by some, I may mention that one of the
sub-district commanders, as he himself informed me, knew planters within
the limits of his command who had made contracts with their former slaves
_avowedly_ for the object of keeping them together on their plantations,
so that they might have them near at hand, and thus more easily
reduce them to their former condition, when, after the restoration
of the civil power, the "unconstitutional emancipation proclamation"
would be set aside.

Cases in which negroes were kept on the plantations, either by ruse or
violence, were frequent enough in South Carolina and Georgia to call forth
from General Saxton a circular threatening planters who persisted in this
practice with loss of their property, and from Major General Steedman,
commander of the department of Georgia, an order bearing upon the same
subject. At Atlanta, Georgia, I had an opportunity to examine some cases
of the nature above described myself. While I was there, 9th and 10th of
August, several negroes came into town with bullet and buckshot wounds in
their bodies. From their statements, which, however, were only corroborating
information previously received, it appeared that the reckless and restless
characters of that region had combined to keep the negroes where they
belonged. Several freedmen were shot in the attempt to escape, others
succeeded in eluding the vigilance of their persecutors; large numbers,
terrified by what they saw and heard, quietly remained under the
restraint imposed upon them, waiting for better opportunities.
The commander of the sub-district and post informed me that bands of
guerillas were prowling about within a few miles of the city, making it
dangerous for soldiers and freedmen to show themselves outside of the
immediate reach of the garrison, and that but a few days previous
to my arrival a small squad of men he had sent out to serve an order upon
a planter, concerning the treatment of freedmen, had been driven
back by an armed band of over twenty men, headed by an individual
in the uniform of a rebel officer.

     As our troops in Georgia were at that time mostly concentrated at a
     number of central points, and not scattered over the State in small
detachments, but little information was obtained of what was going
on in the interior of the country. A similar system was followed
in Alabama, but enough has become known to indicate the condition
of things in localities not immediately under the eye of the military.
In that State the efforts made to hold the negro in a state of
subjection appear to have been of a particularly atrocious nature.
Rumors to that effect which reached me at Montgomery induced me to
make inquiries at the post hospital.He served under Maurice of Nassau and
     Gustavus Adolphus, and held the rank of colonel in the Royalist
     army.  He closely attached himself to Prince Rupert, and was an
     active agent in affecting the reconciliation between that prince and
     his uncle Charles I.  Colonel Legge distinguished himself in several
     actions, and was wounded and taken prisoner at the battle of
     Worcester; it was said that he would have "been executed if his wife
     had not contrived his escape from Coventry gaol in her own clothes."
     He was Groom of the Bedchamber to Charles I., and also to Charles
     II.; he held the offices of Master of the Armories and Lieutenant-
     General of the Ordnance.  He refused honours (a knighthood from
     Charles I. and an earldom from Charles II.), but his eldest son
     George was created Baron Dartmouth in 1682.  He died October 13th,
     1672, at his house in the Minories, and was buried in]

and have got an order that no Treasurer after him shall ever sit at the
Board; and it is a good one: that no master of the Ordnance here shall
ever sell a place.  He tells me they have not paid any increase of price
for any thing during this war, but in most have paid less; and at this day
have greater stores than they know where to lay, if there should be peace,
and than ever was any time this war.  That they pay every man in course,
and have notice of the disposal of every farthing.  Every man that they
owe money to has his share of every sum they receive; never borrowed all
this war but L30,000 by the King's express command, but do usually stay
till their assignments become payable in their own course, which is the
whole mystery, that they have had assignments for a fifth part of whatever
was assigned to the Navy.  They have power of putting out and in of all
officers; are going upon a building that will cost them L12,000; that they
out of their stock of tallies have been forced to help the Treasurer of
the Navy at this great pinch.  Then to talk of newes: that he thinks the
want of money hath undone the King, for the Parliament will never give the
King more money without calling all people to account, nor, as he
believes, will ever make war again, but they will manage it themselves:
unless, which I proposed, he would visibly become a severer inspector into
his own business and accounts, and that would gain upon the Parliament
yet: which he confesses and confirms as the only lift to set him upon his
legs, but says that it is not in his nature ever to do.  He says that he
believes but four men (such as he could name) would do the business of
both offices, his and ours, and if ever the war were to be again it should
be so, he believes.  He told me to my face that I was a very good clerk,
and did understand the business and do it very well, and that he would
never desire a better.  He do believe that the Parliament, if ever they
meet, will offer some alterations to the King, and will turn some of us
out, and I protest I think he is in the right that either they or the King
will be advised to some regulations, and therefore I ought to beware, as
it is easy for me to keep myself up if I will.  He thinks that much of our
misfortune hath been for want of an active Lord Treasurer, and that such a
man as Sir W. Coventry would do the business thoroughly.  This talk being
over, comes his boy and tells us [Sir] W. Coventry is come in, and so he
and I to him, and there told the difficulty of getting this money, and
they did play hard upon Sir G. Carteret as a man moped and stunned, not
knowing which way to turn himself.  Sir W. Coventry cried that he was
disheartened, and I do think that there is much in it, but Sir J. Duncomb
do charge him with mighty neglect in the pursuing of his business, and
that he do not look after it himself, but leaves it to Fenn, so that I do
perceive that they are resolved to scheme at bringing the business into a
better way of execution, and I think it needs, that is the truth of it.
So I away to Sir G. Carteret's lodgings about this money, and contrary to
expectation I find he hath prevailed with Legg on his own bond to lend him
L2000, which I am glad of, but, poor man, he little sees what observations
people do make upon his management, and he is not a man fit to be told
what one hears.  Thence by water at 10 at night from Westminster Bridge,
having kissed little Frank, and so to the Old Swan, and walked home by
moonshine, and there to my chamber a while, and supper and to bed.

25th.  Received a writ from the Exchequer this morning of distrain for
L70,000, which troubled me, though it be but, matter of form.  To the
office, where sat all the morning.  At noon my wife being to Unthanke's
christening, I to Sir W. Batten's to dinner, where merry, and the rather
because we are like to come to some good end in another of our prizes.
Thence by coach to my Lord Treasurer's, and there being come too soon to
the New Exchange, but did nothing, and back again, and there found my Lord
Bruncker and T. Harvy, and walked in a room very merrily discoursing.  By
and by comes my Lord Ashly and tells us my Lord Treasurer is ill and
cannot speak with us now.  Thence away, Sir W. Pen and I and Mr. Lewes,
who come hither after us, and Mr. Gawden in the last man's coach.  Set me
down by the Poultry, and I to Sir Robert Viner's, and there had my account
stated and took it home to review.  So home to the office, and there late
writing out something, having been a little at Sir W. Batten's to talk,
and there vexed to see them give order for Hogg's further abroad, and so
home and to bed.

26th.  Up, and by coach with Sir W. Batten and [Sir] W. Pen to White Hall,
and there saw the Duke of Albemarle, who is not well, and do grow crazy.
Thence I to St. James's, to meet Sir G. Carteret, and did, and Lord
Berkely, to get them (as we would have done the Duke of Albemarle) to the
meeting of the Lords of Appeale in the business of one of our prizes.
With them to the meeting of the Guinny Company, and there staid, and went
with Lord Berkely.  While I was waiting for him in the Matted Gallery, a
young man was most finely working in Indian inke the great picture of the
King and Queen sitting,--[Charles I. and Henrietta Maria.]--by Van Dyke;
and did it very finely.  Thence to Westminster Hall to hear our cause, but
[it] did not come before them to-day, so went down and walked below in the
Hall, and there met with Ned Pickering, who tells me the ill newes of his
nephew Gilbert, who is turned a very rogue, and then I took a turn with
Mr. Evelyn, with whom I walked two hours, till almost one of the clock:
talking of the badness of the Government, where nothing but wickedness,
and wicked men and women command the King: that it is not in his nature to
gainsay any thing that relates to his pleasures; that much of it arises
from the sickliness of our Ministers of State, who cannot be about him as
the idle companions are, and therefore he gives way to the young rogues;
and then, from the negligence of the Clergy, that a Bishop shall never be
seen about him, as the King of France hath always: that the King would
fain have some of the same gang to be Lord Treasurer, which would be yet
worse, for now some delays are put to the getting gifts of the King, as
that whore my Lady Byron,

     [Eleanor, daughter of Robert Needham, Viscount Kilmurrey, and widow
     of Peter Warburton, became in 1644 the second wife of John Byron,
     first Lord Byron.  Died 1663.--B.]

who had been, as he called it, the King's seventeenth whore abroad, did
not leave him till she had got him to give her an order for L4000 worth of
plate to be made for her; but by delays, thanks be to God! she died before
she had it.  He tells me mighty stories of the King of France, how great a
prince he is.  He hath made a code to shorten the law; he hath put out all
the ancient commanders of castles that were become hereditary; he hath
made all the fryers subject to the bishops, which before were only subject
to Rome, and so were hardly the King's subjects, and that none shall
become 'religieux' but at such an age, which he thinks will in a few,
years ruin the Pope, and bring France into a patriarchate.  He confirmed
to me the business of the want of paper at the Council-table the other
day, which I have observed; Wooly being to have found it, and did, being
called, tell the King to his face the reason of it; and Mr. Evelyn tells
me several of the menial servants of the Court lacking bread, that have
not received a farthing wages since the King's coming in.  He tells me the
King of France hath his mistresses, but laughs at the foolery of our King,
that makes his bastards princes,

     [Louis made his own bastards dukes and princes, and legitimatized
     them as much as he could, connecting them also by marriage with the
     real blood-royal.--B.]

and loses his revenue upon them, and makes his mistresses his masters and
the King of France did never grant Lavalliere

     [Louise Francoise de la Baume le Blanc de la Valliere had four
     children by Louis XIV., of whom only two survived-Marie Anne
     Bourbon, called Mademoiselle de Blois, born in 1666, afterwards
     married to the Prince de Conti, and the Comte de Vermandois, born in
     1667.  In that year (the very year in which Evelyn was giving this
     account to Pepys), the Duchy of Vaujour and two baronies were
     created in favour of La Valliere, and her daughter, who, in the deed
     of creation, was legitimatized, and styled princess.--B.]

any thing to bestow on others, and gives a little subsistence, but no
more, to his bastards.  He told me the whole story of Mrs. Stewart's going
away from Court, he knowing her well; and believes her, up to her leaving
the Court, to be as virtuous as any woman in the world: and told me, from
a Lord that she told it to but yesterday, with her own mouth, and a sober
man, that when the Duke of Richmond did make love to her, she did ask the
King, and he did the like also; and that the King did not deny it, and
[she] told this Lord that she was come to that pass as to resolve to have
married any gentleman of L1500 a-year that would have had her in honour;
for it was come to that pass, that she could not longer continue at Court
without prostituting herself to the King,

     [Even at a much later time Mrs. Godolphin well resolved "not to talk
     foolishly to men, more especially THE KING,"--"be sure never to
     talk to THE KING" ("Life," by Evelyn).  These expressions speak
     volumes as to Charles's character.--B.]

whom she had so long kept off, though he had liberty more than any other
had, or he ought to have, as to dalliance.

     [Evelyn evidently believed the Duchess of Richmond to be innocent;
     and his testimony, coupled with her own declaration, ought to weigh
     down all the scandal which Pepys reports from other sources.--B.]

She told this Lord that she had reflected upon the occasion she had given
the world to think her a bad woman, and that she had no way but to marry
and leave the Court, rather in this way of discontent than otherwise, that
the world might see that she sought not any thing but her honour; and that
she will never come to live at Court more than when she comes to town to
come to kiss the Queene her Mistress's hand: and hopes, though she hath
little reason to hope, she can please her Lord so as to reclaim him, that
they may yet live comfortably in the country on his estate. She told this
Lord that all the jewells she ever had given her at Court, or any other
presents, more than the King's allowance of L700 per annum out of the
Privypurse for her clothes, were, at her first coming the King did give
her a necklace of pearl of about L1100 and afterwards, about seven months
since, when the King had hopes to have obtained some courtesy of her, the
King did give her some jewells, I have forgot what, and I think a pair of
pendants.  The Duke of York, being once her Valentine, did give her a
jewell of about L800; and my Lord Mandeville, her Valentine this year, a
ring of about L300; and the King of France would have had her mother, who,
he says, is one of the most cunning women in the world, to have let her
stay in France, saying that he loved her not as a mistress, but as one
that he could marry as well as any lady in France; and that, if she might
stay, for the honour of his Court he would take care she should not
repent.  But her mother, by command of the Queen-mother, thought rather to
bring her into England; and the King of France did give her a jewell: so
that Mr. Evelyn believes she may be worth in jewells about L6000, and that
that is all that she hath in the world: and a worthy woman; and in this
hath done as great an act of honour as ever was done by woman.  That now
the Countesse Castlemayne do carry all before her: and among other
arguments to prove Mrs. Stewart to have been honest to the last, he says
that the King's keeping in still with my Lady Castlemayne do show it; for
he never was known to keep two mistresses in his life, and would never
have kept to her had he prevailed any thing with Mrs. Stewart.  She is
gone yesterday with her Lord to Cobham.  He did tell me of the ridiculous
humour of our King and Knights of the Garter the other day, who, whereas
heretofore their robes were only to be worn during their ceremonies and
service, these, as proud of their coats, did wear them all day till night,
and then rode into the Parke with them on.  Nay, and he tells me he did
see my Lord Oxford and the Duke of Monmouth in a hackney-coach with two
footmen in the Parke, with their robes on; which is a most scandalous
thing, so as all gravity may be said to be lost among us.  By and by we
discoursed of Sir Thomas Clifford, whom I took for a very rich and learned
man, and of the great family of that name.  He tells me he is only a man
of about seven-score pounds a-year, of little learning more than the law
of a justice of peace, which he knows well: a parson's son, got to be
burgess in a little borough in the West, and here fell into the
acquaintance of my Lord Arlington, whose creature he is, and never from
him; a man of virtue, and comely, and good parts enough; and hath come
into his place with a great grace, though with a great skip over the heads
of a great many, as Chichly and Duncum, and some Lords that did expect it.
By the way, he tells me, that of all the great men of England there is
none that endeavours more to raise those that he takes into favour than my
Lord Arlington; and that, on that score, he is much more to be made one's
patron than my Lord Chancellor, who never did, nor never will do, any
thing, but for money!  After having this long discourse we parted, about
one of the clock, and so away by water home, calling upon Michell, whose
wife and girle are pretty well, and I home to dinner, and after dinner
with Sir W. Batten to White Hall, there to attend the Duke of York before
council, where we all met at his closet and did the little business we
had, and here he did tell us how the King of France is intent upon his
design against Flanders, and hath drawn up a remonstrance of the cause of
the war, and appointed the 20th of the next month for his rendezvous, and
himself to prepare for the campaign the 30th, so that this, we are in
hopes, will keep him in employment.  Turenne is to be his general.  Here
was Carcasses business unexpectedly moved by him, but what was done
therein appears in my account of his case in writing by itself.  Certain
newes of the Dutch being abroad on our coast with twenty-four great ships.
This done Sir W. Batten and I back again to London, and in the way met my
Lady Newcastle going with her coaches and footmen all in velvet: herself,
whom I never saw before, as I have heard her often described, for all the
town-talk is now-a-days of her extravagancies, with her velvetcap, her
hair about her ears; many black patches, because of pimples about her
mouth; naked-necked, without any thing about it, and a black
just-au-corps.  She seemed to me a very comely woman: but I hope to see
more of her on Mayday.  My mind is mightily of late upon a coach. At home,
to the office, where late spending all the evening upon entering in long
hand our late passages with Carcasse for memory sake, and so home in great
pain in my back by the uneasiness of Sir W. Batten's coach driving hard
this afternoon over the stones to prevent coming too late. So at night to
supper in great pain, and to bed, where lay in great pain, not able to
turn myself all night.

27th.  Up with much pain, and to the office, where all the morning.  At
noon home to dinner, W. Hewer with us.  This noon I got in some coals at
23s. per chaldron, a good hearing, I thank God-having not been put to buy
a coal all this dear time, that during this war poor people have been
forced to give 45s. and 50s., and L3.  In the afternoon (my wife and
people busy these late days, and will be for some time, making of shirts
and smocks) to the office, where late, and then home, after letters, and
so to supper and to bed, with much pleasure of mind, after having
dispatched business.  This afternoon I spent some time walking with Mr.
Moore, in the garden, among other things discoursing of my Lord Sandwich's
family, which he tells me is in a very bad condition, for want of money
and management, my Lord's charging them with bills, and nobody, nor any
thing provided to answer them.  He did discourse of his hopes of being
supplied with L1900 against a present bill from me, but I took no notice
of it, nor will do it.  It seems Mr. Sheply doubts his accounts are ill
kept, and every thing else in the family out of order, which I am grieved
to hear of.

28th (Lord's day).  Lay long, my pain in my back being still great, though
not so great as it was.  However, up and to church, where a lazy sermon,
and then home and to dinner, my wife and I alone and Barker. After dinner,
by water--the day being mighty pleasant, and the tide serving finely, I up
(reading in Boyle's book of colours), as high as Barne Elmes, and there
took one turn alone, and then back to Putney Church, where I saw the girls
of the schools, few of which pretty; and there I come into a pew, and met
with little James Pierce, which I was much pleased at, the little rogue
being very glad to see me: his master, Reader to the Church.  Here was a
good sermon and much company, but I sleepy, and a little out of order, for
my hat falling down through a hole underneath the pulpit, which, however,
after sermon, by a stick, and the helpe of the clerke, I got up again, and
then walked out of the church with the boy, and then left him, promising
him to get him a play another time.  And so by water, the tide being with
me again, down to Deptford, and there I walked down the Yard, Shish and
Cox with me, and discoursed about cleaning of the wet docke, and heard,
which I had before, how, when the docke was made, a ship of near 500 tons
was there found; a ship supposed of Queene Elizabeth's time, and well
wrought, with a great deal of stoneshot in her, of eighteen inches
diameter, which was shot then in use: and afterwards meeting with Captain
Perriman and Mr. Castle at Half-way Tree, they tell me of stoneshot of
thirty-six inches diameter, which they shot out of mortarpieces.  Thence
walked to Half-way Tree, and there stopt and talk with Mr. Castle and
Captain Perriman, and so to Redriffe and took boat again, and so home, and
there to write down my Journall, and so to supper and to read, and so to
bed, mightily pleased with my reading of Boyle's book of colours to-day,
only troubled that some part of it, indeed the greatest part, I am not
able to understand for want of study.  My wife this night troubled at my
leaving her alone so much and keeping her within doors, which indeed I do
not well nor wisely in.

29th.  Up, being visited very early by Creed newly come from
Hinchingbrooke, who went thither without my knowledge, and I believe only
to save his being taxed by the Poll Bill.  I did give him no very good
countenance nor welcome, but took occasion to go forth and walked (he with
me) to St. Dunstan's, and thence I to Sir W. Coventry's, where a good
while with him, and I think he pretty kind, but that the nature of our
present condition affords not matter for either of us to be pleased with
any thing.  We discoursed of Carcasse, whose Lord, he tells me, do make
complaints that his clerk should be singled out, and my Lord Berkeley do
take his part.  So he advises we would sum up all we have against him and
lay it before the Duke of York; he condemned my Lord Bruncker.  Thence to
Sir G. Carteret, and there talked a little while about office business,
and thence by coach home, in several places paying my debts in order to my
evening my accounts this month, and thence by and by to White Hall again
to Sir G. Carteret to dinner, where very good company and discourse, and I
think it my part to keep in there now more than ordinary because of the
probability of my Lord's coming soon home. Our Commissioners for the
treaty set out this morning betimes down the river.  Here I hear that the
Duke of Cambridge, the Duke of York's son, is very sick; and my Lord
Treasurer very bad of the stone, and hath been so some days.  After dinner
Sir G. Carteret and I alone in his closet an hour or more talking of my
Lord Sandwich's coming home, which, the peace being likely to be made
here, he expects, both for my Lord's sake and his own (whose interest he
wants) it will be best for him to be at home, where he will be well
received by the King; he is sure of his service well accepted, though the
business of Spain do fall by this peace.  He tells me my Lord Arlington
hath done like a gentleman by him in all things.  He says, if my Lord
[Sandwich] were here, he were the fittest man to be Lord Treasurer of any
man in England; and he thinks it might be compassed; for he confesses that
the King's matters do suffer through the inability of this man, who is
likely to die, and he will propound him to the King.  It will remove him
from his place at sea, and the King will have a good place to bestow.  He
says to me, that he could wish, when my Lord comes, that he would think
fit to forbear playing, as a thing below him, and which will lessen him,
as it do my Lord St. Albans, in the King's esteem: and as a great secret
tells me that he hath made a match for my Lord Hinchingbroke to a daughter
of my Lord Burlington's, where there is a great alliance, L10,000 portion;
a civil family, and relation to my Lord Chancellor, whose son hath married
one of the daughters; and that my Lord Chancellor do take it with very
great kindness, so that he do hold himself obliged by it.  My Lord
Sandwich hath referred it to my Lord Crew, Sir G. Carteret, and Mr.
Montagu, to end it.  My Lord Hinchingbroke and the lady know nothing yet
of it.  It will, I think, be very happy.  Very glad of this discourse, I
away mightily pleased with the confidence I have in this family, and so
away, took up my wife, who was at her mother's, and so home, where I
settled to my chamber about my accounts, both Tangier and private, and up
at it till twelve at night, with good success, when news is brought me
that there is a great fire in Southwarke: so we up to the leads, and then
I and the boy down to the end of our, lane, and there saw it, it seeming
pretty great, but nothing to the fire of London, that it made me think
little of it.  We could at that distance see an engine play--that is, the
water go out, it being moonlight.  By and by, it begun to slacken, and
then I home and to bed.

30th.  Up, and Mr. Madden come to speak with me, whom my people not
knowing have made to wait long without doors, which vexed me.  Then comes
Sir John Winter to discourse with me about the forest of Deane, and then
about my Lord Treasurer, and asking me whether, as he had heard, I had not
been cut for the stone, I took him to my closet, and there shewed it to
him, of which he took the dimensions and had some discourse of it, and I
believe will shew my Lord Treasurer it.  Thence to the office, where we
sat all the morning, but little to do, and then to the 'Change, where for
certain I hear, and the News book declares, a peace between France and
Portugal.  Met here with Mr. Pierce, and he tells me the Duke of Cambridge
is very ill and full of spots about his body, that Dr. Frazier knows not
what to think of it.  Then home and to dinner, and then to the office,
where all the afternoon; we met about Sir W. Warren's business and
accounts, wherein I do rather oppose than forward him, but not in declared
terms, for I will not be at, enmity with him, but I will not have him find
any friendship so good as mine.  By and by rose and by water to White
Hall, and then called my wife at Unthanke's.  So home and to my chamber,
to my accounts, and finished them to my heart's wishes and admiration,
they being grown very intricate, being let alone for two months, but I
brought them together all naturally, within a few shillings, but to my
sorrow the Poll money I paid this month and mourning have made me L80 a
worse man than at my last balance, so that I am worth now but L6700, which
is yet an infinite mercy to me, for which God make me thankful.  So late
to supper, with a glad heart for the evening of my accounts so well, and
so to bed.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     As he called it, the King's seventeenth whore abroad
     He is not a man fit to be told what one hears
     I having now seen a play every day this week
     Ill sign when we are once to come to study how to excuse
     King is offended with the Duke of Richmond's marrying
     Mrs. Stewart's sending the King his jewels again
     Much difficulty to get pews, I offering the sexton money
     My people do observe my minding my pleasure more than usual
     My wife this night troubled at my leaving her alone so much
     Never was known to keep two mistresses in his life (Charles II.)
     Officers are four years behind-hand unpaid
     Sparrowgrass
     Suspect the badness of the peace we shall make
     Swear they will not go to be killed and have no pay


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  MAY
                                  1667

May 1st.  Up, it being a fine day, and after doing a little business in my
chamber I left my wife to go abroad with W. Hewer and his mother in a
Hackney coach incognito to the Park, while I abroad to the Excise Office
first, and there met the Cofferer and Sir Stephen Fox about our money
matters there, wherein we agreed, and so to discourse of my Lord
Treasurer, who is a little better than he was of the stone, having rested
a little this night.  I there did acquaint them of my knowledge of that
disease, which I believe will be told my Lord Treasurer.  Thence to
Westminster; in the way meeting many milk-maids with their garlands upon
their pails, dancing with a fiddler before them;

     [On the 1st of May milkmaids used to borrow silver cups, tankards,
     &c., to hang them round their milkpails, with the addition of
     flowers and ribbons, which they carried upon their heads,
     accompanied by a bagpipe or fiddle, and went from door to door,
     dancing before the houses of their customers, in order to obtain a
     small gratuity from each of them.

              "In London thirty years ago,
               When pretty milkmaids went about,
               It was a goodly sight to see
               Their May-day pageant all drawn out.

              "Such scenes and sounds once blest my eyes
               And charm'd my ears; but all have vanish'd,
               On May-day now no garlands go,
               For milkmaids and their dance are banish'd."

                    Hone's Every-Day Book, vol. i., pp. 569, 570.]

and saw pretty Nelly standing at her lodgings' door in Drury-lane in her
smock sleeves and bodice, looking upon one: she seemed a mighty pretty
creature.  To the Hall and there walked a while, it being term.  I thence
home to the Rose, and then had Doll Lane venir para me .  .  .  .  To my
Lord Crew's, where I found them at dinner, and among others.  Mrs. Bocket,
which I have not seen a long time, and two little dirty children, and she
as idle a prating and impertinent woman as ever she was.  After dinner my
Lord took me alone and walked with me, giving me an account of the meeting
of the Commissioners for Accounts, whereof he is one.  How some of the
gentlemen, Garraway, Littleton, and others, did scruple at their first
coming there, being called thither to act, as Members of Parliament, which
they could not do by any authority but that of Parliament, and therefore
desired the King's direction in it, which was sent for by my Lord
Bridgewater, who brought answer, very short, that the King expected they
should obey his Commission.  Then they went on, and observed a power to be
given them of administering and framing an oath, which they thought they
could not do by any power but Act of Parliament; and the whole Commission
did think fit to have the judges' opinion in it; and so, drawing up their
scruples in writing, they all attended the King, who told them he would
send to the judges to be answered, and did so; who have, my Lord tells me,
met three times about it, not knowing what answer to give to it; and they
have met this week, doing nothing but expecting the solution of the judges
in this point.  My Lord tells me he do believe this Commission will do
more hurt than good; it may undo some accounts, if these men shall think
fit; but it can never clear an account, for he must come into the
Exchequer for all this.  Besides, it is a kind of inquisition that hath
seldom ever been granted in England; and he believes it will never,
besides, give any satisfaction to the People or Parliament, but be looked
upon as a forced, packed business of the King, especially if these
Parliament-men that are of it shall not concur with them: which he doubts
they will not, and, therefore, wishes much that the King would lay hold of
this fit occasion, and let the Commission fall. Then to talk of my Lord
Sandwich, whom my Lord Crew hath a great desire might get to be Lord
Treasurer if the present Lord should die, as it is believed he will, in a
little time; and thinks he can have no competitor but my Lord Arlington,
who, it is given out, desires it: but my Lord thinks it is not so, for
that the being Secretary do keep him a greater interest with the King than
the other would do at least, do believe, that if my Lord would surrender
him his Wardrobe place, it would be a temptation to Arlington to assist my
Lord in getting the Treasurer's. I did object to my Lord [Crew] that it
would be no place of content, nor safety, nor honour for my Lord, the
State being so indigent as it is, and the [King] so irregular, and those
about him, that my Lord must be forced to part with anything to answer his
warrants; and that, therefore, I do believe the King had rather have a man
that may be one of his vicious caball, than a sober man that will mind the
publick, that so they may sit at cards and dispose of the revenue of the
kingdom.  This my Lord was moved at, and said he did not indeed know how
to answer it, and bid me think of it; and so said he himself would also
do.  He do mightily cry out of the bad management of our monies, the King
having had so much given him; and yet, when the Parliament do find that
the King should have L900,000 in his purse by the best account of issues
they have yet seen, yet we should report in the Navy a debt due from the
King of L900,000; which, I did confess, I doubted was true in the first,
and knew to be true in the last, and did believe that there was some great
miscarriages in it: which he owned to believe also, saying, that at this
rate it is not in the power of the kingdom to make a war, nor answer the
King's wants.  Thence away to the King's playhouse, by agreement met Sir
W. Pen, and saw "Love in a Maze" but a sorry play: only Lacy's clowne's
part, which he did most admirably indeed; and I am glad to find the rogue
at liberty again.  Here was but little, and that ordinary, company.  We
sat at the upper bench next the boxes; and I find it do pretty well, and
have the advantage of seeing and hearing the great people, which may be
pleasant when there is good store.  Now was only Prince Rupert and my Lord
Lauderdale, and my Lord, the naming of whom puts me in mind of my seeing,
at Sir Robert Viner's, two or three great silver flagons, made with
inscriptions as gifts of the King to such and such persons of quality as
did stay in town the late great plague, for the keeping things in order in
the town, which is a handsome thing.  But here was neither Hart, Nell, nor
Knipp; therefore, the play was not likely to please me. Thence Sir W. Pen
and I in his coach, Tiburne way, into the Park, where a horrid dust, and
number of coaches, without pleasure or order.  That which we, and almost
all went for, was to see my Lady Newcastle; which we could not, she being
followed and crowded upon by coaches all the way she went, that nobody
could come near her; only I could see she was in a large black coach,
adorned with silver instead of gold, and so white curtains, and every
thing black and white, and herself in her cap, but other parts I could not
make [out].  But that which I did see, and wonder at with reason, was to
find Pegg Pen in a new coach, with only her husband's pretty sister with
her, both patched and very fine, and in much the finest coach in the park,
and I think that ever I did see one or other, for neatness and richness in
gold, and everything that is noble. My Lady Castlemayne, the King, my Lord
St. Albans, nor Mr. Jermyn, have so neat a coach, that ever I saw.  And,
Lord! to have them have this, and nothing else that is correspondent, is
to me one of the most ridiculous sights that ever I did see, though her
present dress was well enough; but to live in the condition they do at
home, and be abroad in this coach, astonishes me.  When we had spent half
an hour in the Park, we went out again, weary of the dust, and despairing
of seeing my Lady Newcastle; and so back the same way, and to St. James's,
thinking to have met my Lady Newcastle before she got home, but we staying
by the way to drink, she got home a little before us: so we lost our
labours, and then home; where we find the two young ladies come home, and
their patches off, I suppose Sir W. Pen do not allow of them in his sight,
and going out of town to-night, though late, to Walthamstow.  So to talk a
little at Sir W. Batten's, and then home to supper, where I find Mrs.
Hewer and her son, who have been abroad with my wife in the Park, and so
after supper to read and then to bed.  Sir W. Pen did give me an account
this afternoon of his design of buying Sir Robert Brooke's fine house at
Wansted; which I so wondered at, and did give him reasons against it,
which he allowed of: and told me that he did intend to pull down the house
and build a less, and that he should get L1500 by the old house, and I
know not what fooleries.  But I will never believe he ever intended to buy
it, for my part; though he troubled Mr. Gawden to go and look upon it, and
advise him in it.

2nd.  To the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and
then abroad to my Lord Treasurer's, who continues so ill as not to be
troubled with business.  So Mr. Gawden and I to my Lord Ashly's and spoke
with him, and then straight home, and there I did much business at the
office, and then to my own chamber and did the like there, to my great
content, but to the pain of my eyes, and then to supper and to bed, having
a song with my wife with great pleasure, she doing it well.

3rd.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes, [Sir] W. This he did, instead of fulfilling
his promise. Nowland said that he took the slave and inflicted five
hundred lashes upon him, cutting his back all to pieces, and then thew
on hot embers. The slave was on the plantation at the time, and told
me the same story. He also rolled up his sleeves, and showed me the scars
on his arms, which, in consequence, appeared in places to be callous
to the bone. I was with Nowland between five and six months."

Rev. JOHN RANKIN, formerly of Tennessee, now pastor of the Presbyterian
Church of Ripley, Ohio, has furnished the following statement:--
"The Rev. LUDWELL G. GAINES, now pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Goshen,
Clermont county, Ohio, stated to me, that while a resident of a slave
state, he was summoned to assist in taking a man who had made his
black woman work naked several days, and afterwards murdered her.
The murderer armed himself, and threatened to shoot the officer who went
to take him; and although there was ample assistance at hand, the
officer declined further interference."

Mr. RANKIN adds the following:--
"A Presbyterian preacher, now resident in a slave state, and therefore
it is not expedient to give his name, stated, that he saw on board of a
steamboat at Louisville, Kentucky, a woman who had been forced on board,
to be carried off from all she counted dear on earth. She ran across
the boat and threw herself into the river, in order to end a life of
intolerable sorrows. She was drawn back to the boat and taken up. The
brutal driver beat her severely, and she immediately threw herself again
into the river. She was hooked up again, chained, and carried off."

Testimony of M. WILLIAM HANSBOROUGH, of Culpepper county, Virginia, the
"owner" of sixty slaves.

"I saw a slave taken out of prison by his master, on a hot summer's day,
and driven, by said master, on the road before him, till he dropped
down dead."

The above statement was made by Mr. Hansborough to Lindley Coates, of Lancaster
county, Pa. a distinguished member of the Society of Friends, and a member
of the late Convention in Pa. for altering the State Constitution. The
letter from Mr. C. containing this testimony of Mr. H. is now before
us.

Mr. TOBIAS BOUDINOT, a member of the Methodist Church in St. Albans,
Licking county, Ohio, says:

"In Nicholasville, Ky. in the year 1823, he saw a slave fleeing before the
patrol, but he was overtaken near where he stood, and a man with a knotted
cane, as large as his wrist, struck the slave a number of times on his
head, until the club was broken and he made tame; the blood was thrown
in every direction by the violence of the blows."

The Rev. WILLIAM DICKEY, of Bloomingburg, Fayette county, Ohio, wrote a
letter to the Rev. John Rankin, of Ripley, Ohio thirteen years since,
containing a description of the cutting up of a slave with a broad
axe; beginning at the feet and gradually cutting the legs, arms, and body
into pieces! This diabolical atrocity was committed in the state of
Kentucky, in the year 1807.

The perpetrators of the deed were two brothers, Lilburn and Isham Lewis,
NEPHEWS OF PRESIDENT JEFFERSON.
The writer of this having been informed by Mr. Dickey, that some of the
facts connected with this murder were not contained in his letter published
by Mr. Rankin, requested him to write the account _anew_, and furnish
the additional facts. This he did, and the letter containing it was
published in the "Human Rights" for August, 1837. We insert it here, slightly
abridged, with the introductory remarks which appeared in that paper.

"Mr. Dickey's first letter has been scattered all over the country, south
and north; and though multitudes have affected to disbelieve its statements,
_Kentuckians_ know the truth of them quite too well to call them in question.
The story is fiction or fact--if _fiction_, why has it not been
nailed to the wall? Hundreds of people around the mouth of Cumberland
River are personally knowing to these facts.
_There_ are the records of the court that tried the wretches.

--_There_ their acquaintances and kindred still live. All over that region
of country, the brutal butchery of George is a matter of public notoriety.
It is quite needless, perhaps, to add, that the Rev. Wm.
Dickey is a Presbyterian clergyman, one of the oldest members of the
Chilicothe Presbytery, and greatly respected and beloved by the churches
in Southern Ohio. He was born in South Carolina, and was for many years
pastor of a church in Kentucky."
REV. WM. DICKEY'S LETTER.

"In the county of Livingston, KY. near the mouth of Cumberland River, lived
Lilburn Lewis, a sister's son of the celebrated Jefferson. He was the
wealthy owner of a considerable gang of negroes, whom he drove constantly,
fed sparingly, and lashed severely. The consequence was, that they would
run away. Among the rest was an ill-thrived boy of about seventeen,
who, having just returned from a skulking spell, was sent to the spring
for water, and in returning let fall an elegant pitcher: it was dashed to
shivers upon the rocks. This was made the occasion for reckoning with him.
It was night, and the slaves were all at home. The master had them all
collected in the most roomy negro house, and a rousing fire put on. When
the door was secured, that none might escape, either through _fear of him_
or _sympathy with George_, he opened to them the design of the interview,
namely, that they might be effectually advised to _stay at home and obey
his orders_. All things now in train, he called up George, who approached
his master with unreserved submission. He bound him with cords; and by the
assistance of Isham Lewis, his youngest brother, laid him on a broad bench,
the _meat-block_. He then proceeded to _hack off George at the ankles_! It
was with the _broad axe_! In vain did the unhappy victim _scream and
roar_! for he was completely in his master's power; not a hand among so
many durst interfere; casting the feet into the fire, he lectured them
at some length.--He next _chopped him off below the knees_! George
_roaring out_ and praying his master to begin at the _other end_! He
admonished them again, throwing the legs into the fire--then, above the
knees, tossing the joints into the fire--the next stroke severed the thighs
from the body; these were also committed to the flames--and so it may be
said of the arms, head, and trunk, until all was in the fire! He threatened
any of them with similar punishment who should in future disobey,
run away, or disclose the proceedings of that evening. Nothing now
remained but to consume the flesh and bones; and for this purpose the fire
was brightly stirred until two hours after midnight; when a coarse and
heavy back-wall, composed of rock and clay, covered the fire and the
remains of George. It was the Sabbath--this put an end to the _amusements_
of the evening. The negroes were now permitted to disperse, with charges
to keep this matter among themselves, and never to whisper it in the
neighbourhood, under the penalty of a like punishment.

"When he returned home and retired, his wife exclaimed, 'Why, Mr.
Lewis, where have you been, and what were you doing?'

She had heard a strange _pounding_ and dreadful _screams_, and had smelled
something like fresh meat _burning_. The answer he returned was, that
he had never enjoyed himself at a ball so well as he had enjoyed himself
that night.

"Next morning he ordered the hands to rebuild the back-wall, and he himself
superintended the work, throwing the pieces of flesh that still remained,
with the bones, behind, as it went up--thus hoping to conceal the matter.
But it _could not be hid_--much as the negroes seemed to hazard, they
did _whisper the horrid deed_. The neighbors came, and in his presence
tore down the wall; and finding the _remains_ of the boy, they apprehended
Lewis and his brother, and testified against them. They were committed to
jail, that they might answer at the coming court for this shocking outrage;
but finding security for their appearance at court, THEY WERE ADMITTED
TO BAIL!

"In the interim, other articles of evidence leaked out. That of Mrs.
Lewis hearing a pounding, and screaming and her smelling fresh meat burning,
for not till now had this come out. He was offended with her for disclosing
these things, alleging that they might have some weight against him
at the pending trial.

"In connection with this is another item, full of horror. Mr.s. Lewis, or
her girl, in making her bed one morning after this, found, under her
bolster, a keen BUTCHER KNIFE! The appalling discovery forced from her the
confession that she considered her life in jeopardy. Messrs.
Rice and Philips, whose wives were her sisters, went to see her and to
bring her away if she wished it. Mr. Lewis received them with all the
expressions of _Virginia hospitality_. As soon as they were seated they
said, 'Well, Letitia, we supposed that you might be unhappy here, and
afraid for your life; and we have come to-day to take you to your
father's, if you desire it.'

She said, 'Thank you, kind brothers, I am indeed afraid for my life.'--We
need not interrupt the story to tell how much surprised he affected to
be with this strange procedure of his brothers-in-law, and with this
declaration of his wife. But all his professions of fondness for her,
to the contrary notwithstanding, they rode off with her before his
eyes.--He followed and overtook, and went with them to her father's; but
she was locked up from him, with her own consent, and he returned
home.

"Now he saw that his character was gone, his respectable friends believed
that he had massacred George; but, worst of all, he saw that they considered
the life of the harmless Letitia was in danger from his perfidious hands.
It was too much for his chivalry to sustain. The proud Virginian sunk
under the accumulated load of public odium. He proposed to his
brother Isham, who had been his accomplice in the George affair, that they
should finish the play of life with a still deeper tragedy. The plan was,
that they should shoot one another.
Having made the hot-brained bargain, they repaired with their guns to
the grave-yard, which was on an eminence in the midst of his plantation.
It was inclosed with a railing, say thirty feet square.
One was to stand at one railing, and the other over against him at the
other. They were to make ready, take aim, and count deliberately 1,
2, 3, and then fire. Lilburn's will was written, and thrown down open
beside him. They cocked their guns and raised them to their faces; but the
peradventure occurring that one of the guns might miss fire, Isham was
sent for a rod, and when it was brought, Lilburn cut it off at
about the length of two feet, and was showing his brother how the
survivor might do, provided one of the guns should fail; (for they
were determined upon going together;) but forgetting, perhaps, in
the perturbation of the moment that the gun was cocked, when he
touched trigger with the rod the gun fired, and he fell, and died
in a few minutes--and was with George in the eternal world, where
_the slave is free from his master_.

But poor Isham was so terrified with this unexpected occurrence and so
confounded by the awful contortions of his brother's face, that he had
not nerve enough to follow up the play, and finish the plan as was intended,
but suffered Lilburn to go alone. The negroes came running to see what
it meant that a gun should be fired in the grave-yard. There lay their
master, dead! They ran for the neighbors. Isham still remained on the
spot. The neighbors at the first charged him with the murder of his brother.
But he, though as if he had lost more than half his mind, told the whole
story; and the course of range of the ball in the dead man's body
agreeing with his statement, Isham was not farther charged with
Lilburn's death.

"The Court sat--Isham was judged to be guilty of a capital crime in the
affair of George. He was to be hanged at Salem. The day was set.
My good old father visited him in the prison--two or three times talked and
prayed with him; I visited him once myself. We fondly hoped that he was a
sincere penitent. Before the day of execution came, by some means, I never
knew what, Isham was _missing_. About two years after, we learned that he
had gone down to Natchez, and had married a lady of some refinement and
piety. I saw her letters to his sisters, who were worthy members of the
church of which I was pastor. The last letter told of his death. He was
in Jackson's army, and fell in the famous battle of New Orleans."
"I am, sir, your friend,
"WM. DICKEY."

PERSONAL NARRATIVES-PART III.

NARRATIVE AND TESTIMONY OF REV. FRANCIS HAWLEY.

Mr. Hawley is the pastor of the Baptist Church in Colebrook, Litchfield
county, Connecticut. He has resided fourteen years in the slave
states, North and South Carolina. His character and standing with
his own denomination at the south, may be inferred from the fact, that the
Baptist State Convention of North Carolina appointed him, a few years
since, their general agent to visit the Baptist churches within their
bounds, and to secure their co-operation in the objects of the Convention.
Mr. H. accepted the appointment, and for some time traveled in that
capacity.

"I rejoice that the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society
have resolved to publish a volume of facts and testimony relative to the
character and workings of American slavery. Having resided fourteen
years at the south, I cheerfully comply with your request, to give the
result of my observation and experience.

"And I would here remark, that one may reside at the south for years, and
not witness extreme cruelties; a northern man, and one who is not a
slaveholder, would be the last to have an opportunity of witnessing the
infliction of cruel punishments."

PLANTATIONS.

"A majority of the large plantations are on the banks of rivers, far from
the public eye. A great deal of low marshy ground lies in the vicinity
of most of the rivers at the south; consequently the main roads are several
miles from the rivers, and generally no _public_ road passes the plantations.
A stranger traveling on the _ridge_, would think himself in a miserably
poor country; but every two or three miles he will see a road turning off
and leading into the swamp; taking one of those roads, and traveling from
two to six miles, he will come to a large gate; passing which, he will find
himself in a clearing of several hundred acres of the first quality
of land; passing on, he will see 30, or 40, or more slaves--men, women,
boys and girls, at their task, every one with a hoe; or, if in cotton
picking season, with their baskets. The overseer, with his whip, either
riding or standing about among them; or if the weather is hot, sitting
under a shade. At a distance, on a little rising ground, if such there
be, he will see a cluster of huts, with a tolerable house in the midst,
for the overseer. Those huts are from ten to fifteen feet square, built
of logs, and covered, not with shingles, but with boards, about four feet
long, split out of pine timber with a '_frow_'. The floors are very
commonly made in this way. Clay is first worked until it is soft; it is
then spread upon the ground, about four or five inches thick; when it dries,
it becomes nearly as hard as a brick. The crevices between the logs are
sometimes filled with the same. These huts generally cost the master
nothing--they are commonly built by the negroes at night, and on Sundays.
When a slave of a neighboring plantation takes a wife, or to use the
phrase common at the south, 'takes up' with one of the women, he builds a
hut, and it is called her house. Upon entering these huts, (not as comfortable
in many instances as the horse stable,) generally, you will find no chairs,
but benches and stools; no table, no bedstead, and no bed, except a blanket
or two, and a few rags or moss; in some instances a knife or two, but
very rarely a fork. You may also find a pot or skillet, and generally a
number of gourds, which serve them instead of bowls and plates. The
cruelties practiced on those secluded plantations, the judgment day alone
can reveal. Oh, Brother, could I summon ten slaves from ten plantations
that I could name, and have them give but one year's history of their
bondage, it would thrill the land with horror. Those overseers who follow
the business of overseeing for a livelihood, are generally the
most unprincipled and abandoned of men. Their wages are regulated
according to their skill in extorting labor. The one who can make the most
bags of cotton, with a given number of hands, is the one generally sought
after; and there is a competition among them to see who shall make the
largest crop, according to the hands he works. I ask, what must be the
condition of the poor slaves, under the unlimited power of such men, in
whom, by the long-continued practise of the most heart-rending cruelties,
every feeling of humanity has been obliterated? But it may be asked, cannot
the slaves have redress by appealing to their masters? In many instances
it is impossible, as their masters live hundreds of miles off. There are
perhaps thousands in the northern slave states, [and many in the free
states,] who own plantations in the southern slave states, and many
more spend their summers at the north, or at the various watering
places.

But what would the slaves gain, if they should appeal to the master?
He has placed the overseer over them, with the understanding that he
will make as large a crop as possible, and that he is to have entire
control, and manage them according to his own judgment. Now suppose that
in the midst of the season, the slaves make complaint of cruel treatment.
The master cannot get along without an overseer--it is perhaps very
sickly on the plantation he dare not risk his own life there. Overseers
are all enraged at that season, and if he takes part with his slave against
the overseer, he would destroy his authority, and very likely provoke
him to leave his service--which would of course be a very great injury
to him. Thus, in nineteen cases out of twenty, self-interest would
prevent the master from paying any attention to the complaints of
his slaves. And, if any should complain, it would of course come to
the ears of the overseer, and the complainant would be inhumanly punished
for it."

CLOTHING.

"The rule, where slaves are hired out, is two suits of clothes per
year, one pair of shoes, and one blanket; but as it relates to the
great body of the slaves, this cannot be called a general rule.

     On many plantations, the children under ten or twelve years old, go
     _entirely naked_--or, it clothed at all, they have nothing more than
     a shirt.

The cloth is of the coarsest kind, far from being durable or warm; and their
shoes frequently come to pieces in a few weeks. I have never known any
provision made, or time allowed for the washing of clothes. If they wish
to wash, as they have generally but one suit, they go after their day's
toil to some stream, build a fire, pull off their clothes and wash
them in the stream, and dry them by the fire; and in some instances
they wear their clothes until they are worn off; without washing.

I have never known an instance of a slaveholder putting himself to any
expense, that his slaves might have decent clothes for the Sabbath. If by
making baskets, brooms, mats, &c. at night or on Sundays, the slaves
can get money enough to buy a Sunday suit, very well. I have never known
an instance of a slaveholder furnishing his slaves with stockings
or mittens. I _know_ that the slaves suffer much, and no doubt many
die in consequence of not being well clothed." 

FOOD.
"In the grain-growing part of the south, the slaves, as it relates
to food, fare tolerably well; but in the cotton, and rice-growing,
and sugar-making portion, some of them fare badly. I have been on
plantations where, from the appearance of the slaves, I should judge
they were half-starved. They receive their allowance very commonly
on Sunday morning. They are left to cook it as they please, and
when they please. Many slaveholders rarely give their slaves meat,
and very few give them more food than will keep them in a working
condition. They rarely ever have a _change_ of food. I have never
known an instance of slaves on plantations being furnished either
with sugar, butter, cheese, or milk." 

WORK.
"If the slaves on plantations were well fed and clothed, and had
the stimulus of wages, they could perhaps in general perform their
tasks without injury. The horn is blown soon after the dawn of day,
when all the hands destined for the field must be 'on the march!'
If the field is far from their huts, they take their breakfast with
them. They toil till about ten o'clock, when they eat it. They then
continue their toil till the sun is set.
"A neighbor of mine, who has been an overseer in Alabama, informs
me, that there they ascertain how much labor a slave can perform
in a day, in the following manner. When they commence a new cotton
field, the overseer takes his watch, and marks how long it takes
them to hoe one row, and then lays out the task accordingly. My
neighbor also informs me, that the slaves in Alabama are worked
very hard; that the lash is almost universally applied at the close
of the day, if they fail to perform their task in the cotton-picking
season. You will see them, with their baskets of cotton, slowly
bending their way to the cotton house, where each one's basket is
weighed. They have no means of knowing accurately, in the course
of the day, how they make progress; so that they are in suspense,
until their basket is weighed. Here comes the mother, with her
children; she does not know whether herself, or children, or all
of them, must take the lash; they cannot weigh the cotton themselves--the
whole must be trusted to the overseer. While the weighing goes on,
all is still. So many pounds short, cries the overseer, and takes
up his whip, exclaiming, 'Step this way, you d--n lazy scoundrel,
or bitch.' The poor slave begs, and promises, but to no purpose.
The lash is applied until the overseer is satisfied. Sometimes the
whipping is deferred until the weighing is all over.We spoke
with him that hath the letting it, and I do believe when I can tell how
much it will be fit for me to have we shall go near to agree.  So home,
and there found my door open, which makes me very angry with Nell, and do
think to put her away for it, though it do so go against me to part with a
servant that it troubles me more than anything in the world. So to the
office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, where Mr.
Goodgroome and Creed, and I have great hopes that my wife will come to
sing to my mind.  After dinner my wife and Creed and I being entered a
hackney coach to go to the other end of the town, we espied The.  Turner
coming in her coach to see us, which we were surprised at, and so 'light
and took her and another young lady home, and there sat and talked with
The., she being lately come out of the North after two or three years
absence.  She is come to put out her sister and brothers to school at
Putney.  After a little talk, I over Tower Hill with them to a lady's they
go to visit, and so away with my wife, whose being dressed this day in
fair hair did make me so mad, that I spoke not one word to her in our
going, though I was ready to burst with anger.  So to White Hall to the
Committee of Tangier, where they were discoursing about laws for the civil
government of the place, but so dull and so little to the purpose that I
fell to slumber, when the fear of being seen by Sir W. Coventry did
trouble me much afterwards, but I hope he did not.  After that broke up.
Creed and I into the Park, and walked, a most pleasant evening, and so
took coach, and took up my wife, and in my way home discovered my trouble
to my wife for her white locks,

     [Randle Holmes says the ladies wore "false locks set on wyres, to
     make them stand at a distance from the head," and accompanies the
     information with the figure of a lady "with a pair of locks and
     curls which were in great fashion in 1670" (Planche's "Cyclopaedia
     of Costume;" Vol. i., p. 248).]

swearing by God, several times, which I pray God forgive me for, and
bending my fist, that I would not endure it.  She, poor wretch,

     [A new light is thrown upon this favourite expression of Pepys's
     when speaking of his wife by the following quotation from a Midland
     wordbook: "Wretch, n., often used as an expression of endearment or
     sympathy.  Old Woman to Young Master: 'An''ow is the missis to-day,
     door wretch?'  Of a boy going to school a considerable distance off
     'I met 'im with a bit o' bread in 'is bag, door wretch'" ("A
     Glossary of Words and Phrases used in S.E. Worcestershire," by Jesse
     Salisbury.  Published by the English Dialect Society, 1894).]

was surprized with it, and made me no answer all the way home; but there
we parted, and I to the office late, and then home, and without supper to
bed, vexed.

12th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, to settle some accounts there,
and by and by down comes my wife to me in her night-gown, and we begun
calmly, that upon having money to lace her gown for second mourning, she
would promise to wear white locks no more in my sight, which I, like a
severe fool, thinking not enough, begun to except against, and made her
fly out to very high terms and cry, and in her heat told me of keeping
company with Mrs. Knipp, saying, that if I would promise never to see her
more--of whom she hath more reason to suspect than I had heretofore of
Pembleton--she would never wear white locks more.  This vexed me, but I
restrained myself from saying anything, but do think never to see this
woman--at least, to have her here more, but by and by I did give her money
to buy lace, and she promised to wear no more white locks while I lived,
and so all very good friends as ever, and I to my business, and she to
dress herself.  Against noon we had a coach ready for us, and she and I to
White Hall, where I went to see whether Sir G. Carteret was at dinner or
no, our design being to make a visit there, and I found them set down,
which troubled me, for I would not then go up, but back to the coach to my
wife, and she and I homeward again, and in our way bethought ourselves of
going alone, she and I, to go to a French house to dinner, and so enquired
out Monsieur Robins, my perriwigg-maker, who keeps an ordinary, and in an
ugly street in Covent Garden, did find him at the door, and so we in; and
in a moment almost had the table covered, and clean glasses, and all in
the French manner, and a mess of potage first, and then a couple of
pigeons a la esterve, and then a piece of boeuf-a-la-mode, all exceeding
well seasoned, and to our great liking; at least it would have been
anywhere else but in this bad street, and in a perriwigg-maker's house;
but to see the pleasant and ready attendance that we had, and all things
so desirous to please, and ingenious in the people, did take me mightily.
Our dinner cost us 6s., and so my wife and I away to Islington, it being a
fine day, and thence to Sir G. Whitmore's house, where we 'light, and
walked over the fields to Kingsland, and back again; a walk, I think, I
have not taken these twenty years; but puts me in mind of my boy's time,
when I boarded at Kingsland, and used to shoot with my bow and arrows in
these fields.  A very pretty place it is; and little did any of my friends
think I should come to walk in these fields in this condition and state
that I am.  Then took coach again, and home through Shoreditch; and at
home my wife finds Barker to have been abroad, and telling her so many
lies about it, that she struck her, and the wench said she would not stay
with her: so I examined the wench, and found her in so many lies myself,
that I was glad to be rid of her, and so resolved having her go away
to-morrow.  So my wife and W. Hewer and I to supper, and then he and I to
my chamber to begin the draught of the report from this office to the Duke
of York in the case of Mr. Carcasse, which I sat up till midnight to do,
and then to bed, believing it necessary to have it done, and to do it
plainly, for it is not to be endured the trouble that this rascal hath put
us to, and the disgrace he hath brought upon this office.

13th.  Up, and when ready, to the office (my wife rising to send away
Barker, according to our resolution last night, and she did do it with
more clothes than have cost us L10, and 20s. in her purse, which I did for
the respect I bear Mr. Falconbridge, otherwise she had not deserved half
of it, but I am the more willing to do it to be rid of one that made work
and trouble in the house, and had not qualities of any honour or pleasure
to me or my family, but what is a strange thing did always declare to her
mistress and others that she had rather be put to drudgery and to wash the
house than to live as she did like a gentlewoman), and there I and Gibson
all the morning making an end of my report against Carcasse, which I think
will do our business, but it is a horrid shame such a rogue should give me
and all of us this trouble.  This morning come Sir H. Cholmly to me for a
tally or two; and tells me that he hears that we are by agreement to give
the King of France Nova Scotia, which he do not like: but I do not know
the importance of it.

     [Nova Scotia and the adjoining countries were called by the French
     Acadie.  Pepys is not the only official personage whose ignorance of
     Nova Scotia is on record.  A story is current of a prime minister
     (Duke of Newcastle) who was surprised at hearing Cape Breton was an
     island.  "Egad, I'll go tell the King Cape Breton is an island!"
     Of the same it is said, that when told Annapolis was in danger, and
     ought to be defended: "Oh! certainly Annapolis must be defended,--
     where is Annapolis?"--B.]

Then abroad with my wife to my Lord Treasurer's, and she to her tailor's.
I find Sir Philip Warwicke, who I perceive do give over my Lord Treasurer
for a man of this world, his pain being grown great again upon him, and
all the rest he hath is by narcotiques, and now Sir Philip Warwicke do
please himself, like a good man, to tell some of the good ejaculations of
my Lord Treasurer concerning the little worth of this world, to buy it
with so much pain, and other things fit for a dying man.  So finding no
business likely to be done here for Tangier, I having a warrant for
tallies to be signed, I away to the New Exchange, and there staid a
little, and then to a looking-glass shop to consult about covering the
wall in my closet over my chimney, which is darkish, with looking-glasses,
and then to my wife's tailor's, but find her not ready to go home, but got
to buy things, and so I away home to look after my business and finish my
report of Carcasse, and then did get Sir W. Batten, Sir J. Minnes, and
[Sir] W. Pen together, and read it over with all the many papers relating
to the business, which they do wonder at, and the trouble I have taken
about it, and like the report, so as that they do unanimously resolve to
sign it, and stand by it, and after a great deal of discourse of the
strange deportment of my Lord Bruncker in this business to withstand the
whole board in behalf of such an impudent rogue as this is, I parted, and
home to my wife, and supped and talked with her, and then to bed,
resolving to rise betimes to-morrow to write fair the report.

14th.  Up by 5 o'clock, and when ready down to my chamber, and there with
Mr. Fist, Sir W. Batten's clerk, who writes mighty well, writing over our
report in Mr. Carcasses business, in which we continued till 9 o'clock,
that the office met, and then to the office, where all the morning, and so
at noon home to dinner, where Mr. Holliard come and eat with us, who among
other things do give me good hopes that we shall give my father some ease
as to his rupture when he comes to town, which I expect to-morrow.  After
dinner comes Fist, and he and I to our report again till 9 o'clock, and
then by coach to my Lord Chancellor's, where I met Mr. Povy, expecting the
coming of the rest of the Commissioners for Tangier.  Here I understand
how the two Dukes, both the only sons of the Duke of York, are sick even
to danger, and that on Sunday last they were both so ill, as that the poor
Duchess was in doubt which would die first: the Duke of Cambridge of some
general disease; the other little Duke, whose title I know not, of the
convulsion fits, of which he had four this morning.  Fear that either of
them might be dead, did make us think that it was the occasion that the
Duke of York and others were not come to the meeting of the Commission
which was designed, and my Lord Chancellor did expect.  And it was pretty
to observe how, when my Lord sent down to St. James's to see why the Duke
of York come not, and Mr. Povy, who went, returned, my Lord (Chancellor)
did ask, not how the Princes or the Dukes do, as other people do, but "How
do the children?" which methought was mighty great, and like a great man
and grandfather.  I find every body mightily concerned for these children,
as a matter wherein the State is much concerned that they should live.  At
last it was found that the meeting did fail from no known occasion, at
which my Lord Chancellor was angry, and did cry out against Creed that he
should give him no notice. The physical condition of the slave is far from
being accurately known at the north. Gentlemen _traveling_ in the south
can know nothing of it.
They must make the south their residence; they must live on plantations,
before they can have any opportunity of judging of the slave. I resided
in Augustine five months, and had I not made _particular_ inquiries,
which most northern visitors very seldom or never do, I should have left
there with the impression that the slaves were generally very _well_
treated, and were a happy people. Such is the report of many northern
travelers who have no more opportunity of knowing their real condition than
if they had remained at home. What confidence could we place in the reports
of the traveler, relative to the condition of the Irish peasantry, who
formed his opinion from the appearance of the waiters at a Dublin
hotel, or the household servants of a country gentleman?

And it is not often on plantations even, that _strangers_ can witness the
punishment of the slave. I was conversing the other day with a neighboring
planter, upon the brutal treatment of the slaves which I had witnessed:
he remarked, that had I been with him I should not have seen this. "When
I whip niggers, I take them out of sight and hearing." Such being the
difficulties in the way of a stranger's ascertaining the treatment of
the slaves, it is not to be wondered at that gentlemen, of undoubted
veracity, should give directly false statements relative to it. But facts
cannot lie, and in giving these I confine myself to what has come under my
own personal observation.

"The negroes commence labor by daylight in the morning, and, excepting the
plowboys, who must feed and rest their horses, do not leave the field
till dark in the evening. There is a good deal of contention among planters,
who shall make the most cotton to the hand, or, who shall drive their
negroes the hardest; and I have heard bets made and staked upon the issue
of the crops. Col. W. was boasting of his large crops, and swore that
'he made for his force, the largest crops in the country.' He was disputed
of course. On riding home in company with Mr. C. the conversation turned
upon Col. W. My companion remarked, that though Col. W. had the reputation
of making a large crop, yet he could beat him himself, and did do it the
last year. I remarked that I considered it no honor to _Col. W_. to drive
his slaves to death to make a large crop. I have heard no more about
large crops from him since. Drivers or overseers usually drive the slaves
worse than masters.--Their reputation for good overseers depends in a
great measure upon the crops they make, and the death of a slave is no
loss to them.

"Of the extent and cruelty of the punishment of the slave, the northern
public know nothing. From the nature of the case they can know little,
as I have before mentioned.

"I _have seen_ a woman, a mother, compelled, in the presence of her master
and mistress, _to hold up her clothes_, and endure the whip of the driver
on the naked body for more than _twenty minutes_, and while her cries
would have rent the heart of any one, who had not hardened himself to
human suffering. Her master and mistress were conversing with apparent
indifference. What was her crime? She had a task given her of sewing which
she _must finish_ that day. Late at night she finished it; but _the
stitches were too long_, and she must be whipped. The same was repeated
three or four nights for the same offence. _I have seen_ a man tied to a
tree, hands and feet, and receive 305 blows with the paddle[14] on the
fleshy parts of the body.
Two others received the same kind of punishment at the time, though I did
not count the blows. One received 230 lashes. Their crime was stealing
mutton. I have _frequently_ heard the shrieks of the slaves, male and
female, accompanied by the strokes of the paddle or whip, when I have
not gone near the scene of horror. I knew not their crimes, excepting
of one woman, which was stealing _four potatoes_ to eat with her bread!
The more common number of lashes inflicted was fifty or eighty; and
this I saw not once or twice, but so frequently that I can not tell the
number of times I have seen it. So frequently, that my own heart was
becoming so hardened that I could witness with comparative indifference,
the female writhe under the lash, and her shrieks and cries for mercy
ceased to pierce my heart with that keenness, or give me that anguish
which they first caused. It was not always that I could learn their
crimes; but of those I did learn, the most common was non-performance of
tasks. I have seen men strip and receive from one to three hundred strokes
of the whip and paddle. My studies and meditations were almost nightly
interrupted by the cries of the victims of cruelty and avarice. Tom, a slave
of Col. N.
obtained permission of his overseer on Sunday, to visit his son, on a
neighboring plantation, belonging in part to his master, but neglected
to take a "pass." Upon its being demanded by the other overseer, he replied
that he had permission to come, and that his having a mule was sufficient
evidence of it, and if he did not consider it as such, he could take him
up. The overseer replied he would take him up; giving him at the same
time a blow on the arm with a stick he held in his hand, sufficient
to lame it for some time.

The negro collared him, and threw him; and on the overseer's commanding
him to submit to be tied and whipped, he said he would not be whipped by
_him_ but would leave it to massa J. They came to massa J.'s. I was there.
After the overseer had related the case as above, he was blamed for not
shooting or stabbing him at once.--After dinner the negro was tied, and
the whip given to the overseer, and he used it with a severity that was
shocking. I know not how many lashes were given, but from his shoulders
to his heels there was not a spot unridged! and at almost every stroke
the blood flowed. He could not have received less than 300, _well laid on_.
But his offence was great, almost the greatest known, laying hands on a
_white_ man! Had he struck the overseer, under any provocation, he would
have been in some way disfigured, perhaps by the loss of his ears, in
addition to a whipping: or he might have been hung. The most common cause
of punishments is, not finishing tasks.

[Footnote 14: A piece of oak timber two and a half feet long, flat and wide
at one end.]

"But it would be tedious mentioning further particulars. The negro has no
other inducement to work but the _lash_; and as man never acts without
motive, the lash must be used so long as all other motives are withheld.
Hence corporeal punishment is a necessary part of slavery.

"Punishments for runaways are usually severe. Once whipping is not sufficient.
I have known runaways to be whipped for six or seven nights in
succession for one offence. I have known others who, with pinioned hands,
and a chain extending from an iron collar on their neck, to the saddle of
their master's horse, have been driven at a smart trot, one or two hundred
miles, being compelled to ford water courses, their drivers, according
to their own confession, not abating a whit in the rapidity of their
journey for the case of the slave. One tied a kettle of sand to his slave
to render his journey more arduous.

"Various are the instruments of torture devised to keep the slave in subjection.
The stocks are sometimes used. Sometimes blocks are filled with pegs and
nails, and the slave compelled to stand upon them.

"While stopping on the plantation of a Mr. C. I saw a whip with a knotted
lash lying on the table, and inquired of my companion, who was also an
acquaintance of Mr. C's, if he used that to whip his negroes?
"Oh," says he, "Mr. C. is not severe with his hands. He never whips very
hard. The _knots in the lash are so large_ that he does not usually draw
blood in whipping them."
"It was principally from hearing the conversation of southern men on the
subject, that I judge of the cruelty that is generally practiced toward
slaves. They will deny that slaves are generally ill treated; but ask
them if they are not whipped for certain offences, which either a
freeman would have no temptation to commit, or which would not be an
offence in any but a slave, and for non-performance of tasks, they will
answer promptly in the affirmative. And frequently have I heard them excuse
their cruelty by citing Mr. A. or Mr. B. who is a Christian, or Mr. C.
a preacher, or Mr. D. from the _north_, who "drives his hands
tighter, and whips them harder, than we ever do." Driving negroes
to the utmost extent of their ability, with occasionally a hundred
lashes or more, and a few switchings in the field if they hang
back in the driving seasons, viz: in the hoing and picking months, is
perfectly consistent with good treatment!

"While traveling across the Peninsula in a stage, in company with a northern
gentleman, and southern lady, of great worth and piety, a dispute
arose respecting the general treatment of slaves, the gentleman contending
that their treatment was generally good--'O, no!' interrupted the lady,
'you can know nothing of the treatment they receive on the plantations.
People here do whip the poor negroes most cruelly, and many half starve
them. You have neither of you had opportunity to know scarcely anything
of the cruelties that are practiced in this country,' and more to the same
effect. I met with several others, besides this lady, who appeared to
feel for the sins of the land, but they are few and scattered, and not
usually of sufficiently stern mould to withstand the popular wave.

"Masters are not forward to publish their "domestic regulations," and as
neighbors are usually several miles apart, one's observation must
be limited.

Hence the few instances of cruelty which break out can be but a fraction
of what is practised. A planter, a professor of religion, in conversation
upon the universality of whipping, remarked that a planter in G--, who
had whipped a great deal, at length got tired of it, and invented the
following _excellent_ method of punishment, which I saw practised
while I was paying him a visit. The negro was placed in a sitting position,
with his hands made fast above his head, and feet in the stocks, so that
he could not move any part of the body.

"The master retired, intending to leave him till morning, but we were
awakened in the night by the groans of the negro, which were so doleful
that we feared he was dying. We went to him, and found him covered with
a cold sweat, and almost gone. He could not have lived an hour longer.
Mr. ---- found the 'stocks' such an effective punishment, that it
almost superseded the whip."
"How much do you give your niggers for a task while hoeing cotton,"
inquired Mr. C---- of his neighbor Mr. H----."
H. "I give my men an acre and a quarter, and my women an acre."[15]
[Footnote 15: Cotton is planted in drills about three feet apart, and is
hilled like corn.]

C. "Well, that is a fair task. Niggers do a heap better if they are drove
pretty tight."
H. "O yes, I have driven mine into complete subordination. When I first
bought them they were discontented and wished me to sell them, but I soon
whipped _that_ out of them; and they now work very contentedly!"
C. "Does Mary keep up with the rest?"
H. "No, she does'nt often finish the task alone, she has to get Sam to help
her out after he has done his, _to save her a whipping_. There's no other
way but to be severe with them."

C. "No other, sir, if you favor a nigger you spoil him."
"The whip is considered as necessary on a plantation as the plough; and its
use is almost as common. The negro whip is the common teamster's whip with
a black leather stock, and a short, fine, knotted lash. The paddle is also
frequently used, sometimes with holes bored in the flattened end. The
ladies (!) in chastising their domestic servants, generally use the cowhide.
I have known some use shovel and tongs. It is, however, more common to
commit them to the driver to be whipped. The manner of whipping is as
follows: The negro is tied by his hands, and sometimes feet, to a post or
tree, and stripped to the skin. The female slave is not always tied. The
number of lashes depends upon the character for severity of the master
or overseer.

"Another instrument of torture is sometimes used, how extensively I know
not. The negro, or, in the case which came to my knowledge, the negress
was compelled to stand barefoot upon a block filled with sharp pegs and
nails for two or three hours. In case of sickness, if the master or overseer
thinks them seriously ill, they are taken care of, but their
complaints are usually not much heeded.

A physician told me that he was employed by a planter last winter to go to
a plantation of his in the country, as many of the negroes were sick.
Says he--"I found them in a most miserable condition. The weather was cold,
and the negroes were barefoot, with hardly enough of _cotton_ clothing
to cover their nakedness. Those who had huts to shelter them were obliged
to build them nights and Sundays. Many were sick and some had died. I had
the sick taken to an older plantation of their masters, where they could
be made comfortable, and they recovered. I directed that they should
not go to work till after sunrise, and should not work in the rain till
their health became established. But the overseer refusing to permit it,
I declined attending on them farther. I was called,' continued he, 'by the
overseer of another plantation to see one of the men. I found him lying
by the side of a log in great pain. I asked him how he did, 'O,'
says he, 'I'm most dead, can live but little longer.' How long have you
been sick? I've felt for more than six weeks as though I could hardly
stir.' Why didn't you tell your master, you was sick? 'I couldn't see my
master, and the overseer always whips us when we complain, I could not stand
a whipping.' I did all I could for the poor fellow, but his _lungs
were rotten_. He died in three days from the time he left off work.'
The cruelty of that overseer is such that the negroes almost tremble at
his name. Yet he gets a high salary, for he makes the largest crop of any
other man in the neighborhood, though none but the hardiest negroes can
stand it under him. "That man," says the Doctor, "would be hung in my
country." He was a German."

TESTIMONY OF REV. WILLIAM A. CHAPIN.

REV. WILLIAM SCALES, of Lyndon, Vermont, has furnished the following
testimony, under date of Dec. 15, 1838.

"I send you an extract from a letter that I have just received,
which you may use _ad libitum_.

The letter is from Rev. Wm. A. Chapin, Greensborough, Vermont. To one who
is acquainted with Mr. C. his opinion and statements must carry conviction
even to the most obstinate and incredulous. He observes, 'I resided,
as a teacher, nearly two years in the family of Carroll Webb, Esq.,
of Hampstead, New Kent co. about twenty miles from Richmond, Virginia. Mr.
Webb had three or four plantations, and was considered one of the two
wealthiest men in the county: it was supposed he owned about two hundred
slaves. He was a member of the Presbyterian Church, and was elected an
elder while I was with him. He was a native of Virginia, but a graduate of
a New-England college.

"The slaves were called in the morning before daylight, I believe at all
seasons of the year, that they might prepare their food, and be ready
to go to work as soon as it was light enough to see. I know that at the
season of husking corn, October and November, they were usually compelled
to work late--till 12 or 1 o'clock at night. I know this fact because
they accompanied their work with a loud singing of their own sort. I usually
retired to rest between 11 and 12 o'clock, and generally heard them at
their work as long as I was awake. The slaves lived in wretched log
cabins, of one room each, without floors or windows. I believe the slaves
sometimes suffer for want of food. One evening, as I was sitting in the
parlor with Mr. W. one of the most resolute of the slaves came to the
door, and said, "Master, I am willing to work for you, but I want something
to eat." The only reply was, "Clear yourself." I learned that the
slaves had been without food all day, because the man who was sent
to mill could not obtain his grinding. He went again the next day, and
obtained his grist, and the slaves had no food till he returned. He
had to go about five miles.[16]
[Footnote 16: To this, Rev. Mr. Scales adds, "In familiar language, and
in more detail, as I have learned it in conversation with Mr. Chapin, the
fact is as follows:--
"Mr. W. kept, what he called a 'boy,' i.e. a _man_, to go to mill. It
was his custom not to give his slaves anything to eat while he was
gone to mill--let him have been gone longer or shorter--for this reason,
if he was lazy, and delayed, the slaves would become hungry:
hence indignant, and abuse him--this was his punishment. On that occasion
he went to mill in the morning. The slaves came up at noon, and returned
to work without food. At night, after having worked hard all day, without
food, went to bed without supper. About 10 o'clock the next day, they
came up in a company, to their master's door, (that master an elder in the
church), and deputed one more resolute than the rest to address him.

This he did in the most respectful tones and terms. "We are willing to work
for you, master, but we can't work without food; we want something to
eat." "Clear yourself," was the answer. The slaves retired; and in the
morning were driven away to work without food. At noon, I think, or
somewhat after, they were fed."]

"I know the slaves were sometimes severely whipped. I saw the backs of several
which had numerous scars, evidently caused by long and deep lacerations
of the whip; and I have good reason to believe that the slaves were
generally in that condition; for I never saw the back of one exposed that
was not thus marked,--and from their tattered and scanty clothing their
backs were often exposed."

TESTIMONY OF MESSRS. T.D.M. AND F.C. MACY.

This testimony is communicated in a letter from Mr. Cyrus Pierce, a respectable
and well known citizen of Nantucket, Mass. Of the witnesses, Messrs.
T.D.M. and F.C. Macy, Mr. Pierce says, "They are both inhabitants of
this island, and have resided at the south; they are both worthy men, for
whose integrity and intelligence I can vouch unqualifiedly; the former has
furnished me with the following statement.

"During the winter of 1832-3, I resided on the island of St. Simon,
Glynn county, Georgia. There are several extensive cotton plantations
on the island. The overseer of the plantation on that part of the island
where I resided was a Georgian--a man of stern character, and at
times _cruelly abusive_ to his slaves. I have often been witness
of the _abuse_ of his power. In South Carolina and Georgia, on the
low lands, the cultivation is chiefly of rice. The land where it
is raised is often inundated, and the labor of preparing it, and
raising a crop, is very arduous. Men and women are in the field
from earliest dawn to dark--often _without hats_, and up to their
arm-pits in mud and water.
At St. Simon's, cotton was the staple article. Ocra, the driver,
usually waited on the overseer to receive orders for the succeeding
day. If any slave was insolent, or negligent, the driver was
authorized to punish him with the whip, with as many blows as the
magnitude of the crime justified. He was frequently cautioned, upon
the peril of his skin, to see that all the negroes were off to the
field in the morning. 'Ocra,' said the overseer, one evening, to
the driver, 'if any pretend to be sick, send me word--allow no lazy
wench or fellow to skulk in the negro house.' Next morning, a few
minutes after the departure of the hands to the field, Ocra was
seen hastening to the house of the overseer. He was soon in his
presence. 'Well, Ocra, what now?' 'Nothing, sir, only Rachel says
she sick--can't go to de field to-day.' 'Ah, sick, is she? I'll see
to her; you may be off. She shall see if I am longer to be fooled
with in this way. Here, Christmas, mix these salts--bring them to
me at the negro house.' And seizing his whip, he made off to the
negro settlement. Having a strong desire to see what would be the
result, I followed him. As I approached the negro house, I heard
high words. Rachel was stating her complaint--children were crying
from fright--and the overseer threatening. Rachel.--'I can't work
to-day--I'm sick!' Overseer.--'But you shall work, if you die for
it. Here, take these salts. Now move off--quick--let me see your
face again before night, and, by G--d, you shall smart for it. Be
off--no begging--not a word;'--and he dragged her from the house,
and followed her 20 or 30 rods, threatening. The woman did not reach
the field. Overcome by the exertion of walking, and by agitation,
she sunk down exhausted by the road side--was taken up, and carried
back to the house, where an _abortion_ occurred, and her life was
greatly jeoparded.
"It was _no uncommon_ sight to see a whole family, father, mother,
and from two to five children, collected together around their
piggin of hommony, or pail of potatoes, watched by the overseer.
One meal was always eaten in the field. No time was allowed for
relaxation.
"It was not unusual for a child of five or six years to perform the
office of nurse--because the mother worked in a remote part of the
field, and was not allowed to leave her employment to take care of
her infant.Turner do tell me that my Lord hath put the King to
infinite charge since his coming thither in alterations, and particularly
that Mr. Harper at Deptford did himself tell her that my Lord hath had of
Foly, the ironmonger, L50 worth in locks and keys for his house, and that
it is from the fineness of them, having some of L4 and L5 a lock, such as
is in the Duke's closet; that he hath several of these; that he do keep
many of her things from her of her own goods, and would have her bring a
bill into the office for them; that Mrs. Griffin do say that he do not
keep Mrs. Williams now for love, but need, he having another whore that he
keeps in Covent Garden; that they do owe money everywhere almost for every
thing, even Mrs. Shipman for her butter and cheese about L3, and after
many demands cannot get it.  Mrs. Turner says she do believe their coming
here is only out of a belief of getting purchase by it, and that their
servants (which was wittily said of her touching his clerks) do act only
as privateers, no purchase, no pay.  And in my conscience she is in the
right.  Then we fell to talk of Sir W. Pen, and his family and rise.  She
[Mrs. Turner] says that he was a pityfull [fellow] when she first knew
them; that his lady was one of the sourest, dirty women, that ever she
saw; that they took two chambers, one over another, for themselves and
child, in Tower Hill; that for many years together they eat more meals at
her house than at their own; did call brothers and sisters the husbands
and wives; that her husband was godfather to one, and she godmother to
another (this Margaret) of their children, by the same token that she was
fain to write with her own hand a letter to Captain Twiddy, to stand for a
godfather for her; that she brought my Lady, who then was a dirty
slattern, with her stockings hanging about her heels, so that afterwards
the people of the whole Hill did say that Mrs. Turner had made Mrs. Pen a
gentlewoman, first to the knowledge of my Lady Vane, Sir Henry's lady, and
him to the knowledge of most of the great people that then he sought to,
and that in short his rise hath been his giving of large bribes, wherein,
and she agrees with my opinion and knowledge before therein, he is very
profuse.  This made him General; this got him out of the Tower when he was
in; and hath brought him into what he is now, since the King's coming in:
that long ago, indeed, he would drink the King's health privately with Mr.
Turner; but that when he saw it fit to turn Roundhead, and was offered by
Mr. Turner to drink the King's health, he answered "No;" he was changed,
and now, he that would make him drink the King's health, or any health but
the Protector's and the State's, or to that purpose, he would be the first
man should sheath his sword in his guts.  That at the King's coming in, he
did send for her husband, and told him what a great man Sir W. Coventry
was like to be, and that he having all the records in his hands of the
Navy, if he would transcribe what was of most present use of the practice
of the Navy, and give them him to give Sir W. Coventry from him, it would
undoubtedly do his business of getting him a principal officer's place;
that her husband was at L5 charge to get these presently writ; that Sir W.
Pen did give them Sir W. Coventry as from himself, which did set him up
with W. Coventry, and made him what he is, and never owned any thing of
Mr. Turner in them; by which he left him in the lurch, though he did
promise the Duke of Albemarle to do all that was possible, and made no
question of Mr. Turner's being what he desired; and when afterwards, too,
did propose to him the getting of the Purveyor's place for him, he did
tell Mr. Turner it was necessary to present Sir W. Coventry 100 pieces,
which he did, and W. Coventry took 80 of them: so that he was W.
Coventry's mere broker, as Sir W. Batten and my Lady did once tell my Lady
Duchess of Albemarle, in the case of Mr. Falconer, whom W. Pen made to
give W. Coventry L200 for his place of Clerk of the Rope Yard of Woolwich,
and to settle L80 a year upon his daughter Pegg, after the death of his
wife, and a gold watch presently to his wife.  Mrs. Turner do tell me that
my Lady and Pegg have themselves owned to her that Sir W. Coventry and Sir
W. Pen had private marks to write to one another by, that when they in
appearance writ a fair letter in behalf of anybody, that they had a little
mark to show they meant it only in shew: this, these silly people did
confess themselves of him.  She says that their son, Mr. William Pen, did
tell her that his father did observe the commanders did make their
addresses to me and applications, but they should know that his father
should be the chief of the office, and that she hath observed that Sir W.
Pen never had a kindness to her son, since W. Pen told her son that he had
applied himself to me.  That his rise hath been by her and her husband's
means, and that it is a most inconceivable thing how this man can have the
face to use her and her family with the neglect that he do them.  That he
was in the late war a most devilish plunderer, and that got him his
estate, which he hath in Ireland, and nothing else, and that he hath
always been a very liberal man in his bribes, that upon his coming into
this part of the Controller's business wherein he is, he did send for T.
Willson and told him how against his knowledge he was put in, and had so
little wit as to say to him, "This will make the pot boyle, will it not,
Mr. Willson? will it not make the pot boyle?" and do offer him to come in
and do his business for him, and he would reward him.  This Mr. Willson
did come and tell her presently, he having been their servant, and to this
day is very faithful to them.  That her husband's not being forward to
make him a bill for Rere Admirall's pay and Generall's pay both at the
same time after he was first made Generall did first give him occasion of
keeping a distance from him, since which they have never been great
friends, Pen having by degrees been continually growing higher and higher,
till now that he do wholly slight them and use them only as servants.
Upon the whole, she told me stories enough to confirm me that he is the
most false fellow that ever was born of woman, and that so she thinks and
knows him to be.

22nd.  Up, and by water to White Hall to Sir G. Carteret, who tells me now
for certain how the Commission for the Treasury is disposed of: viz., to
Duke of Albemarle, Lord Ashly, Sir W. Coventry, Sir John Duncomb, and Sir
Thomas Clifford: at which, he says, all the whole Court is disturbed; it
having been once concluded otherwise into the other hands formerly
mentioned in yesterday's notes, but all of a sudden the King's choice was
changed, and these are to be the men; the first of which is only for a
puppet to give honour to the rest.  He do presage that these men will make
it their business to find faults in the management of the late Lord
Treasurer, and in discouraging the bankers: but I am, whatever I in
compliance do say to him, of another mind, and my heart is very glad of
it, for I do expect they will do much good, and that it is the happiest
thing that hath appeared to me for the good of the nation since the King
come in.  Thence to St. James's, and up to the Duke of York; and there in
his chamber Sir W. Coventry did of himself take notice of this business of
the Treasury, wherein he is in the Commission, and desired that I would be
thinking of any thing fit for him to be acquainted with for the lessening
of charge and bettering of our credit, and what our expence bath been
since the King's coming home, which he believes will be one of the first
things they shall enquire into: which I promised him, and from time to
time, which he desires, will give him an account of what I can think of
worthy his knowledge.  I am mighty glad of this opportunity of professing
my joy to him in what choice the King hath made, and the hopes I have that
it will save the kingdom from perishing and how it do encourage me to take
pains again, after my having through despair neglected it!  which he told
me of himself that it was so with him, that he had given himself up to
more ease than ever he expected, and that his opinion of matters was so
bad, that there was no publick employment in the kingdom should have been
accepted by him but this which the King hath now given him; and therein he
is glad, in hopes of the service he may do therein; and in my conscience
he will.  So into the Duke of York's closet; and there, among other
things, Sir W. Coventry did take notice of what he told me the other day,
about a report of Commissioner Pett's dealing for timber in the Navy, and
selling it to us in other names; and, besides his own proof, did produce a
paper I had given him this morning about it, in the case of Widow Murford
and Morecocke, which was so handled, that the Duke of York grew very
angry, and commanded us presently to fall into the examination of it,
saying that he would not trust a man for his sake that lifts up the whites
of his eyes.  And it was declared that if he be found to have done so, he
should be reckoned unfit to serve the Navy; and I do believe he will be
turned out; and it was, methought, a worthy saying of Sir W. Coventry to
the Duke of York, "Sir," says he, "I do not make this complaint out of
any disrespect to Commissioner Pett, but because I do love to do these
things fairly and openly."  Thence I to Westminster Hall with Sir G.
Carteret to the Chequer Chamber to hear our cause of the Lindeboome prize
there before the Lords of Appeal, where was Lord Ashly, Arlington,
Barkely, and Sir G. Carteret, but the latter three signified nothing, the
former only either minding or understanding what was said.  Here was good
pleading of Sir Walter Walker's and worth hearing, but little done in our
business. Thence by coach to the Red Lyon, thinking to meet my father, but
I come too soon, but my wife is gone out of town to meet him.  I am in
great pain, poor man, for him, lest he should come up in pain to town.  So
I staid not, but to the 'Change, and there staid a little, where most of
the newes is that the Swedes are likely to fall out with the Dutch, which
we wish, but how true I know not.  Here I met my uncle Wight, the second
day he hath been abroad, having been sick these two months even to death,
but having never sent to me even in the greatest of his danger.  I do
think my Aunt had no mind I should come, and so I never went to see him,
but neither he took notice of it to me, nor I made any excuse for it to
him, but past two or three How do you's, and so parted and so home, and by
and by comes my poor father, much better than I expected, being at ease by
fits, according as his truss sits, and at another time in as much pain.  I
am mighty glad to see him come well to town.  So to dinner, where Creed
comes.  After dinner my wife and father abroad, and Creed and I also by
water, and parted at the Temple stairs, where I landed, and to the King's
house, where I did give 18d., and saw the two last acts of "The Goblins,"
a play I could not make any thing of by these two acts, but here Knipp
spied me out of the tiring-room, and come to the pit door, and I out to
her, and kissed her, she only coming to see me, being in a country-dress,
she, and others having, it seemed, had a country-dance in the play, but
she no other part: so we parted, and I into the pit again till it was
done.  The house full, but I had no mind to be seen, but thence to .my
cutler's, and two or three other places on small, errands, and so home,
where my father and wife come home, and pretty well my father, who to
supper and betimes to bed at his country hours.  I to Sir W. Batten's, and
there got some more part of my dividend of the prize-money.  So home and
to set down in writing the state of the account, and then to supper, and
my wife to her flageolet, wherein she did make out a tune so prettily of
herself, that I was infinitely pleased beyond whatever I expected from
her, and so to bed.  This day coming from Westminster with W. Batten, we
saw at White Hall stairs a fisher-boat, with a sturgeon that he had newly
catched in the River; which I saw, but it was but a little one; but big
enough to prevent my mistake of that for a colt, if ever I become Mayor of
Huntingdon!

     [During a very high flood in the meadows between Huntingdon and
     Godmanchester, something was seen floating, which the Godmanchester
     people thought was a black pig, and the Huntingdon folk declared it
     was a sturgeon; when rescued from the waters, it proved to be a
     young donkey.  This mistake led to the one party being styled
     "Godmanchester black pigs," and the other "Huntingdon sturgeons,"
     terms not altogether forgotten at this day.  Pepys's colt must be
     taken to be the colt of an ass.--B.]

23rd.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon home,
and with my father dined, and, poor man! he hath put off his
travelling-clothes to-day, and is mighty spruce, and I love to see him
cheerful.  After dinner I to my chamber, and my wife and I to talk, and by
and by they tell Mrs. Daniel would speak with me, so I down to the parlour
to her, and sat down together and talked about getting her husband a place
.  .  .  .  I do promise, and mean to do what kindness I can to her
husband.  After having been there hasti je was ashamed de peur that my
people pensait .  .  .  . de it, or lest they might espy us through some
trees, we parted and I to the office, and presently back home again, and
there was asked by my wife, I know not whether simply or with design, how
I come to look as I did, car ego was in much chaleur et de body and of
animi, which I put off with the heat of the season, and so to other
business, but I had some fear hung upon me lest alcuno had sidi decouvert.
So to the office, and then to Sir R. Viner's about some part of my
accounts now going on with him, and then home and ended my letters, and
then to supper and my chamber to settle many things there, and then to
bed.  This noon I was on the 'Change, where I to my astonishment hear, and
it is in the Gazette, that Sir John Duncomb is sworn yesterday a
Privy-councillor.  This day I hear also that last night the Duke of
Kendall, second son of the Duke of York, did die; and that the other, Duke
of Cambridge, continues very ill still.  This afternoon I had opportunity
para jouer with Mrs. Pen, tokendo her mammailles and baisando elle, being
sola in the casa of her pater, and she fort willing.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where, by and by, by appointment, we met
upon Sir W. Warren's accounts, wherein I do appear in every thing as much
as I can his enemy, though not so far but upon good conditions from him I
may return to be his friend, but I do think it necessary to do what I do
at present.  We broke off at noon without doing much, and then home, where
my wife not well, but yet engaged by invitation to go with Sir W. Pen.  I
got her to go with him by coach to Islington to the old house, where his
lady and Madam Lowther, with her exceeding fine coach and mean horses, and
her mother-in-law, did meet us, and two of Mr. Lowther's brothers, and
here dined upon nothing but pigeon-pyes, which was such a thing for him to
invite all the company to, that I was ashamed of it. But after dinner was
all our sport, when there come in a juggler, who, indeed, did shew us so
good tricks as I have never seen in my life, I think, of legerdemaine, and
such as my wife hath since seriously said that she would not believe but
that he did them by the help of the devil. Here, after a bad dinner, and
but ordinary company, saving that I discern good parts in one of the sons,
who, methought, did take me up very prettily in one or two things that I
said, and I was so sensible of it as to be a caution to me hereafter how I
do venture to speak more than is necessary in any company, though, as I
did now, I do think them incapable to censure me.  We broke up, they back
to Walthamstow, and only my wife and I and Sir W. Pen to the King's
playhouse, and there saw "The Mayden Queene," which, though I have often
seen, yet pleases me infinitely, it being impossible, I think, ever to
have the Queen's part, which is very good and passionate, and Florimel's
part, which is the most comicall that ever was made for woman, ever done
better than they two are by young Marshall and Nelly.  Home, where I spent
the evening with my father and wife, and late at night some flagillette
with my wife, and then to supper and to bed.

25th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon dined at
home, and there come Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, and dined with me, telling
me that the Duke of Cambridge continues very ill, so as they do despair of
his living.  So to the office again, where all the afternoon.  About 4
o'clock comes Mrs. Pierce to see my wife, and I into them, and there find
Pierce very fine, and in her own hair, which do become her, and so says my
wife, ten times better than lighter hair, her complexion being mighty
good.  With them talked a little, and was invited by her to come with my
wife on Wednesday next in the evening, to be merry there, which we shall
do.  Then to the office again, where dispatched a great deal of business
till late at night, to my great content, and then home and with my wife to
our flageolets a little, and so to supper and to bed, after having my
chamber a little wiped up.

26th (Lord's day).  Up sooner than usual on Sundays, and to walk, it being
exceeding hot all night (so as this night I begun to leave off my
waistcoat this year) and this morning, and so to walk in the garden till
toward church time, when my wife and I to church, where several strangers
of good condition come to our pew, where the pew was full.  At noon dined
at home, where little Michell come and his wife, who continues mighty
pretty.  After dinner I by water alone to Westminster, where, not finding
Mrs. Martin within, did go towards the parish church, and in the way did
overtake her, who resolved to go into the church with her that she was
going with (Mrs. Hargrave, the little crooked woman, the vintner's wife of
the Dog) and then go out again, and so I to the church, and seeing her
return did go out again myself, but met with Mr. Howlett, who, offering me
a pew in the gallery, I had no excuse but up with him I must go, and then
much against my will staid out the whole church in pain while she expected
me at home, but I did entertain myself with my perspective glass up and
down the church, by which I had the great pleasure of seeing and gazing at
a great many very fine women; and what with that, and sleeping, I passed
away the time till sermon was done, and then to Mrs. Martin, and there
staid with her an hour or two, and there did what I would with her, and
after been here so long I away to my boat, and up with it as far as Barne
Elmes, reading of Mr. Evelyn's late new book against Solitude, in which I
do not find much excess of good matter, though it be pretty for a bye
discourse.  I walked the length of the Elmes, and with great pleasure saw
some gallant ladies and people come with their bottles, and basket, and
chairs, and form, to sup under the trees, by the waterside, which was
mighty pleasant. I to boat again and to my book, and having done that I
took another book, Mr. Boyle's of Colours, and there read, where I
laughed, finding many fine things worthy observation, and so landed at the
Old Swan, and so home, where I find my poor father newly come out of an
unexpected fit of his pain, that they feared he would have died.  They had
sent for me to White Hall and all up and down, and for Mr. Holliard also,
who did come, but W. Hewer being here did I think do the business in
getting my father's bowel, that was fallen down, into his body again, and
that which made me more sensible of it was that he this morning did show
me the place where his bowel did use to fall down and swell, which did
trouble me to see. But above all things the poor man's patience under it,
and his good heart and humour, as soon as he was out of it, did so work
upon me, that my heart was sad to think upon his condition, but do hope
that a way will be found by a steel truss to relieve him.  By and by to
supper, all our discourse about Brampton, and my intentions to build there
if I could be free of my engagement to my Uncle Thomas and his son, that
they may not have what I have built, against my will, to them whether I
will or no, in case of me and my brothers being without heirs male; which
is the true reason why I am against laying out money upon that place,
together with my fear of some inconvenience by being so near
Hinchingbroke; being obliged to be a servant to that family, and subject
to what expence they shall cost me; and to have all that I shall buy, or
do, esteemed as got by the death of my uncle, when indeed what I have from
him is not worth naming.  After supper to read and then to bed.

27th.  Up, and there comes Greeting my flagelette master, and I practised
with him.  There come also Richardson, the bookbinder, with one of
Ogilby's Bibles in quires for me to see and buy, it being Mr. Cade's, my
stationer's; but it is like to be so big that I shall not use it, it being
too great to stir up and down without much trouble, which I shall not like
nor do intend it for.  So by water to White Hall, and there find Sir G.
Carteret at home, and talked with him a while, and find that the new
Commissioners of the Treasury did meet this morning.  So I to find out Sir
W. Coventry, but missed, only I do hear that they have chosen Sir G.
Downing for their Secretary; and I think in my conscience they have done a
great thing in it; for he is a business active man, and values himself
upon having of things do well under his hand; so that I am mightily
pleased in their choice.  Here I met Mr. Pierce, who tells me that he
lately met Mr. Carcasse, who do mightily inveigh against me, for that all
that has been done against him he lays on me, and I think he is in the
right and I do own it, only I find what I suspected, that he do report
that Sir W. Batten and I, who never agreed before, do now, and since this
business agree even more, which I did fear would be thought, and therefore
will find occasion to undeceive the world in that particular by promoting
something shortly against [Sir] W. Batten.  So home, and there to sing
with my wife before dinner, and then to dinner, and after dinner comes
Carcasse to speak with me, but I would not give him way to enlarge on
anything, but he would have begun to have made a noise how I have undone
him and used all the wit I could in the drawing up of his report, wherein
he told me I had taken a great deal of pains to undo him.  To which I did
not think fit to enter into any answer, but dismissed him, and so I again
up to my chamber, vexed at the impudence of this rogue, but I think I
shall be wary enough for him: So to my chamber, and there did some little
business, and then abroad, and stopped at the Bear-garden-stairs, there to
see a prize fought.  But the house so full there was no getting in there,
so forced to go through an alehouse into the pit, where the bears are
baited; and upon a stool did see them fight, which they did very
furiously, a butcher and a waterman.  The former had the better all along,
till by and by the latter dropped his sword out of his hand, and the
butcher, whether not seeing his sword dropped I know not, but did give him
a cut over the wrist, so as he was disabled to fight any longer.  But,
Lord! to see how in a minute the whole stage was full of watermen to
revenge the foul play, and the butchers to defend their fellow, though
most blamed him; and there they all fell to it to knocking down and
cutting many on each side.  It was pleasant to see, but that I stood in
the pit, and feared that in the tumult I might get some hurt.  At last the
rabble broke up, and so I away to White Hall and so to St. James's, but I
found not Sir W. Coventry, so into the Park and took a turn or two, it
being a most sweet day, and so by water home, and with my father and wife
walked in the garden, and then anon to supper and to bed. The Duke of
Cambridge very ill still.

28th.  Up, and by coach to St. James's, where I find Sir W. Coventry, and
he desirous to have spoke with me.  But a great many, probably a very
large majority, remained on the plantations and made contracts with their
former masters.
The military authorities, and especially the agents of the Freedmen's Bureau,
succeeded by continued exertions in returning most of those who were
adrift to the plantations, or in finding other employment for them.
After the first rush was over the number of vagrants grew visibly less.

It may be said that where the Freedmen's Bureau is best organized there
is least vagrancy among the negroes. Here and there they show
considerable restlessness, partly owing to local, partly to general
causes. Among the former, bad treatment is probably the most prominent;
among the latter, a feeling of distrust, uneasiness, anxiety about their
future, which arises from their present unsettled condition. It is
true, some are going from place to place because they are fond of it. The
statistics of the Freedmen's Bureau show that the whole number of
colored people supported by the government since the close of the
war was remarkably small and continually decreasing.

     This seems to show that the southern negro, when thrown out of his
     accustomed employment, possesses considerable ability to support
     himself. It is possible, however, that in consequence of short
     crops, the destitution of the country, and other disturbing influences,
     there may be more restlessness among the negroes next winter than
     there is at present. Where the results of this year's labor
     were very unsatisfactory, there will be a floating about of the
     population when the contracts of this year expire.

It is to be expected, however, that the Freedmen's Bureau will be able to
remedy evils of that kind. Other emancipatory movements, for instance the
abolition of serfdom in Russia, have resulted in little or no vagrancy;
but it must not be forgotten that the emancipated serfs were speedily
endowed with the ownership of land, which gave them a permanent moral and
material interest in the soil upon which they lived. A similar measure
would do more to stop negro vagrancy in the south than the severest penal
laws.
In every country the number of vagrants stands in proportion to the
number of people who have no permanent local interests, unless augmented
by exceptional cases, such as war or famine.

_Contracts_.--Freedmen frequently show great disinclination to make
contracts with their former masters. They are afraid lest in signing a
paper they sign away their freedom, and in this respect they are distrustful
of most southern men. It generally requires personal assurances from a
United States officer to make them feel safe. But the advice of such
an officer is almost uniformly followed. In this manner an immense number
of contracts has been made, and it is daily increasing. A northern man
has no difficulty in making contracts, and but little in enforcing them.
The complaints of southern men that the contracts are not well observed
by the freedmen are in many instances well founded.

The same can be said of the complaints of freedmen with regard to the
planters. The negro, fresh from slavery, has naturally but a crude
idea of the binding force of a written agreement, and it is galling to
many of the planters to stand in such relations as a contract
establishes to those who formerly were their slaves. I was, however,
informed by officers of the Freedmen's Bureau, and by planters also,
that things were improving in that respect.
Contracts will be more readily entered into and more strictly kept as soon
as the intimate relations between labor and compensation are better
understood and appreciated on both sides.

_Insolence and insubordination_.--The new spirit which emancipation has
awakened in the colored people has undoubtedly developed itself in some
individuals, especially young men, to an offensive degree. Hence cases
of insolence on the part of freedmen occur. But such occurrences are
comparatively rare. On the whole, the conduct of the colored people is
far more submissive than anybody had a right to expect. The acts of violence
perpetrated by freedmen against white persons do not stand in any proportion
to those committed by whites against negroes. Every such occurrence is
sure to be noticed in the southern papers and we have heard of but very
few.

When Southern people speak of the insolence of the negro, they generally
mean something which persons who never lived under the system of slavery
are not apt to appreciate. It is but very rarely what would be called
insolence among equals. But, as an old planter said to me, "our people
cannot realize yet that the negro is free." A negro is called insolent
whenever his conduct varies in any manner from what a southern man was
accustomed to when slavery existed.

The complaints made about the insubordination of the negro laborers on
plantations have to be taken with the same allowance. There have been, no
doubt, many cases in which freedmen showed a refractory spirit,
where orders were disobeyed, and instructions disregarded.

There have been some instances of positive resistance. But when inquiring
into particulars, I found not unfrequently that the employer had adhered
too strictly to his old way of doing things. I hardly heard any such
complaints from Northern men. I have heard planters complain very earnestly
of the insubordinate spirit of their colored laborers because they
remonstrated against the practice of corporeal punishment. This was looked
upon as a symptom of an impending insurrection. A great many things are
regarded in the old slave States as acts of insubordination on the part
of the laborer which, in the free States, would be taken as perfectly natural
and harmless. The fact is, a good many planters are at present more nervously
jealous of their authority than before, while the freedmen are not
always inclined to forget that they are free men.

_Extravagant notions_.--In many localities I found an impression
prevailing among the negroes that some great change was going to take place
about Christmas. Feeling uneasy in their present condition, they
indulged in the expectation that government intended to make some further
provision for their future welfare, especially by ordering distributions
of land among them. To counteract this expectation, which had a tendency
to interfere seriously with the making of contracts for the next
season, it was considered necessary to send military officers, and
especially agents of the Freedmen's Bureau, among them, who, by
administering sound advice and spreading correct information, would induce
them to suit their conduct to their actual circumstances. While in the south
I heard of many instances in which this measure had the desired effect,
and it is to be expected that the effect was uniformly good wherever
judicious officers were so employed.

Impressions like the above are very apt to spread among the negroes, for the
reason that they ardently desire to become freeholders. In the independent
possession of landed property they see the consummation of their
deliverance.

However mistaken their notions may be in other respects, it must be admitted
that this instinct is correct.

_Relations between the two races_.--There are whites in the south who
profess great kindness for the negro. Many of them are, no doubt, sincere
in what they say. But as to the feelings of the masses, it is hardly
necessary to add anything to what I have already stated. I have heard it
asserted that the negroes also cherish feelings of hostility to the whites.
Taking this as a general assertion, I am satisfied that it is incorrect.
The negroes do not trust their late masters because they do not feel
their freedom sufficiently assured. Many of them may harbor feelings of
resentment towards those who now ill-treat and persecute them, but as they
practiced no revenge after their emancipation for wrongs suffered while in
slavery, so their present resentments are likely to cease as soon as
the persecution ceases. If the persecution and the denial of their
rights as freemen continue, the resentments growing out of them will
continue and spread. The negro is constitutionally docile and eminently
good-natured. Instances of the most touching attachment of freedmen
to their old masters and mistresses have come to my notice. To a white man
whom they believe to be sincerely their friend they cling with greater
affection even than to one of their own race. By some northern speculators
their confidence has been sadly abused. Nevertheless, the trust they place
in persons coming from the north, or in any way connected with the government,
is most childlike and unbounded. There may be individual exceptions,
but I am sure they are not numerous. Those who enjoy their confidence
enjoy also their affection. Centuries of slavery have not been sufficient
to make them the enemies of the white race. If in the future a feeling of
mutual hostility should develop itself between the races, it will probably
not be the fault of those who have shown such an inexhaustible
patience under the most adverse and trying circumstances.

In some places that I visited I found apprehensions entertained by whites
of impending negro insurrections. Whenever our military commanders
found it expedient to subject the statements made to that effect by whites
to close investigation, they uniformly found them unwarranted by fact.
In many instances there were just reasons for supposing that such
apprehensions were industriously spread for the purpose of serving
as an excuse for further persecution.

     In the papers annexed to this report you will find testimony
supporting this statement.

     The negro is easily led; he is always inclined to follow
     the advice of those he trusts. I do, therefore, not consider
     a negro insurrection probable as long as the freedmen are
     under the direct protection of the government, and may hope
     to see their grievances redressed without resorting to the
     extreme means of self-protection. There would, perhaps,
     be danger of insurrections if the government
     should withdraw its
     protection from them, and if, against an attempt on the
     part of the whites to reduce them to something like their
     former condition, they should find themselves thrown
     back upon their own resources. Of this
     contingency I shall speak
     below.
     
     _Education_.--That the negroes should have come out of slavery
     as an ignorant class is not surprising when we consider that
     it was a penal offence to teach them while they were in slavery;
     but their eager desire to learn, and the alacrity and success
     with which they avail themselves
     of every facility offered to them in that respect, has
     become a matter of notoriety. The statistics of the
     Freedmen's Bureau show to what extent such facilities have been
offered and what results have been attained.

                As far as my information goes, these results are most encouraging
for the future.

            PROSPECTIVE--THE REACTIONARY TENDENCY.

    
 I stated above that, in my opinion, the solution of the social problem
                      in the south did not depend upon the capacity and conduct of the
negro alone, but in the same measure upon the ideas and feelings
entertained and acted upon by the whites.

                              What their ideas and feelings were while under my observation, and
how they affected the contact of the two races, I have already set
forth.

                      The question arises, what policy will be adopted by the "ruling
class" when all restraint imposed upon them by the military power
of the national government is withdrawn, and they are left free to
regulate matters according to their own tastes?

                        It would be presumptuous to speak of the future with absolute
certainty; but it may safely be assumed that the same causes will
always tend to produce the same effects.

                        As long as a majority of the southern people believe that "the negro
will not work without physical compulsion," and that "the blacks
at large belong to the whites at large," that belief will tend to
produce a system of coercion, the enforcement of which will be aided
by the hostile feeling against the negro now prevailing among the
whites, and by the general spirit of violence which in the south
was fostered by the influence slavery exercised upon the popular
character.

                          It is, indeed, not
                                 
                                 probable that a general attempt will be made to restore slavery
in its old form, on account of the barriers which such an attempt
would find in its way; but there are systems intermediate between
slavery as it formerly existed in the south, and free labor as it
exists in the north, but more nearly related to the former than to
the latter, _the introduction of which will be attempted_.

I have already noticed some movements in that direction, which were made
under the very eyes of our military authorities, and of which the Opelousas
and St. Landry ordinances were the most significant.
Other things of more recent date, such as the new negro code submitted by
a committee to the legislature of South Carolina, are before the
country.
They have all the same tendency, because they all spring from the same
cause.

It may be objected that evidence has been given of a contrary spirit by the
State conventions which passed ordinances abolishing slavery in their States,
and making it obligatory upon the legislatures to enact laws for the
protection of the freedmen. While acknowledging the fact, I deem it
dangerous to be led by it into any delusions. As to the motives upon which
they acted when abolishing slavery, and their understanding of the
bearings of such an act, we may safely accept the standard they have set
up for themselves. When speaking of popular demonstrations in the south
in favor of submission to the government, I stated that the principal and
almost the only argument used was, that they found themselves in a situation
in which "they could do no better." It was the same thing with regard
to the abolition of slavery; wherever abolition was publicly
advocated, whether in popular meetings or in State conventions, it
was on the ground of necessity--not unfrequently with the significant
addition that, as soon as they had once more control of their own
State affairs, they could settle the labor question to suit themselves,
whatever they might have to submit to for the present.

Not only did I find this to be the common talk among the people, but the
same sentiment was openly avowed by public men in speech and print. Some
declarations of that kind, made by men of great prominence, have passed
into the newspapers and are undoubtedly known to you. I append to this
report a specimen, (accompanying document, No. 40,) not as something
particularly remarkable, but in order to represent the current sentiment
as expressed in the language of a candidate for a seat in the State
convention of Mississippi.
It is a card addressed to the voters of Wilkinson county, Mississippi, by
General W.L. Brandon. The general complains of having been called "an
unconditional, immediate emancipationist--an abolitionist." He indignantly
repels the charge and avows himself a good pro-slavery man. "But,
fellow-citizens," says he, "what I may in common with you have to submit
to, is a very different thing. Slavery has been taken from us; the power
that has already practically abolished it threatens totally and forever
to abolish it. _But does it follow that I am in favor of this thing? By
no means_. My honest conviction is, we must accept the situation as it is,
_until we can get control once more of our own State affairs. We cannot do
otherwise and get our place again in the Union, and occupy a
position, exert an influence that will protect us against greater
evils which threaten us_.

I must, as any other man who votes or holds an office, submit _for the
time_ to evils I cannot remedy."
General Brandon was elected on that platform, and in the convention voted
for the ordinance abolishing slavery, and imposing upon the legislature
the duty to pass laws for the protection of the freedmen. And General
Brandon is certainly looked upon in Mississippi as an honorable man, and
an honest politician. What he will vote for when his people have got once
more control of their own State affairs, and his State has regained its
position and influence in the Union, it is needless to ask. I repeat, his
case is not an isolated one. He has only put in print what, as my observations
lead me to believe, a majority of the people say even in more
emphatic language; and the deliberations of several legislatures in that
part of the country show what it means. I deem it unnecessary to go into
further particulars.

It is worthy of note that the convention of Mississippi--and the
conventions of other States have followed its example--imposed upon
subsequent legislatures the obligation not only to pass laws for the
protection of the freedmen in person and property, but also _to guard against
the dangers arising from sudden emancipation_. This language is not without
significance; not the blessings of a full development of free labor,
but only the dangers of emancipation are spoken of. It will be observed
that this clause is so vaguely worded as to authorize the legislatures
to place any restriction they may see fit upon the emancipated negro,
in perfect consistency with the amended State constitutions; for it rests
with them to define what the dangers of sudden emancipation consist in,
and what measures may be required to guard against them. It is true, the
clause does not authorize the legislatures to re-establish slavery in
the old form; but they may pass whatever laws they see fit, stopping
short only one step of what may strictly be defined as "slavery." Peonage
of the Mexican pattern, or serfdom of some European pattern, may under
that clause be considered admissible; and looking at the legislative attempts
already made, especially the labor code now under consideration in the
legislature of South Carolina, it appears not only possible, but eminently
probable, that the laws which will be passed to guard against the dangers
arising from emancipation will be directed against the spirit of emancipation
itself.

A more tangible evidence of good intentions would seem to have been furnished
by the admission of negro testimony in the courts of justice, which has
been conceded in some of the southern States, at least in point of form.
This being a matter of vital interest to the colored man, I inquired into
the feelings of people concerning it with particular care.
At first I found hardly any southern man that favored it. Even persons
of some liberality of mind saw seemingly insurmountable objections.
The appearance of a general order issued by General Swayne in Alabama,
which made it optional for the civil authorities either to admit
negro testimony in the State courts or to have all cases in which
colored people were concerned tried by officers of the bureau or military
commissions, seemed to be the signal for a change of position on the part
of the politicians.
A great many of them, seeing a chance for getting rid of the jurisdiction
of the Freedmen's Bureau, dropped their opposition somewhat suddenly and
endeavored to make the admission of negro testimony in the State courts
palatable to the masses by assuring them that at all events it would rest
with the judges and juries to determine in each case before them whether
the testimony of negro witnesses was worth anything or not. One of the
speeches delivered at Vicksburg, already referred to in another connexion,
and a card published by a candidate for office, (accompanying document
No.
14,) furnish specimens of that line of argument.

In my despatch from Montgomery, Alabama, I suggested to you that
instructions be issued making it part of the duty of agents of the Freedmen's
Bureau to appear in the State courts as the freedmen's next friend, and
to forward reports of the proceedings had in the principal cases
to the headquarters of the bureau.

In this manner it would have been possible to ascertain to what extent
the admission of negro testimony secured to the colored man justice
in the State courts. As the plan does not seem to have been adopted,
we must form our conclusions from evidence less complete. Among the
annexed documents there are several statements concerning its results,
made by gentlemen whose business it was to observe. I would invite your
attention to the letters of Captain Paillon, agent of the Freedmen's
Bureau at Mobile; Major Reynolds, assistant commissioner of the bureau at
Natchez; and Colonel Thomas, assistant commissioner for the State of
Mississippi. (Accompanying documents Nos. 41 and 27.) The opinions expressed
in these papers are uniformly unfavorable.
It is to be hoped that at other places better results have been attained.
But I may state that even by prominent southern men, who were anxious to
have the jurisdiction of the State courts extended over the freedmen, the
admission was made to me that the testimony of a negro would have but
little weight with a southern jury. I frequently asked the question,
"Do you think a jury of your people would be apt to find a planter
who has whipped one of his negro laborers guilty of assault and battery?"
The answer almost invariably was, "You must make some allowance for the
prejudices of our people."
It is probable that the laws excluding negro testimony from the
courts will be repealed in all the States lately in rebellion if
it is believed that a satisfactory arrangement of this matter may
in any way facilitate the "readmission" of the States, but I apprehend
such arrangements will hardly be sufficient to secure to the colored
man impartial justice as long as the feelings of the whites are
against him and they think that his rights are less entitled to
respect than their own.

     More potent certainly than the laws of a country are the
     opinions of right and wrong entertained by its people.

When the spirit of a law is in conflict with such opinions, there is but
little prospect of its being faithfully put in execution, especially where
those who hold such opinions are the same who have to administer the
laws.

The facility with which southern politicians acquiesce in the admission
of negro testimony is not surprising when we consider that the practical
management of the matter will rest with their own people. I found them
less accommodating with regard to "constitutional amendment." Nine-tenths
of the intelligent men with whom I had any conversation upon that subject
expressed their willingness to ratify the first section, abolishing
slavery throughout the United States, but not the second section,
empowering Congress "to enforce the foregoing by appropriate legislation."
I feel warranted in saying that, while I was in the south, this was the
prevailing sentiment. Nevertheless, I deem it probable that the "constitutional
amendment" will be ratified by every State legislature, provided the
government insists upon such ratification as a _conditio sine qua non_
of readmission. It is instructive to observe how powerful and immediate
an effect the announcement of such a condition by the government
produces in southern conventions and legislatures. It would be
idle to assume, however, that a telegraphic despatch, while it may
beat down all parliamentary opposition to this or that measure, will at the
same time obliterate the prejudices of the people; nor will it prevent
those prejudices from making themselves seriously felt in the future. It
will require measures of a more practical character to prevent the dangers
which, as everybody that reads the signs of the times must see, are
now impending.

THE MILITIA.

I do not mean to say that the southern people intend to retrace the steps
they have made as soon as they have resumed control of their State
affairs. Although they regret the abolition of slavery, they certainly do
not intend to re-establish it in its old form. Although they are at heart
opposed to the admission of negro testimony in the courts of justice,
they probably will not re-enact the laws excluding it. But while accepting
the "abolition of slavery," they think that some species of serfdom,
peonage, or some other form of compulsory labor is not slavery, and may be
introduced without a violation of their pledge. Although formally admitting
negro testimony, they think that negro testimony will be taken
practically for what they themselves consider it "worth." What particular
shape the reactionary movement will assume it is at present unnecessary
to inquire. There are a hundred ways of framing apprenticeship,
vagrancy, or contract laws, which will serve the purpose. Even the mere
reorganization of the militia upon the old footing will go far towards
accomplishing the object.

To this point I beg leave to invite your special attention.

The people of the southern States show great anxiety to have their militia
reorganized, and in some instances permission has been given. In the
case of Mississippi I gave you my reasons for opposing the measure under
existing circumstances.So home and with my father and
wife to Sir W. Pen's to dinner, which they invited us to out of their
respect to my father, as a stranger; though I know them as false as the
devil himself, and that it is only that they think it fit to oblige me;
wherein I am a happy man, that all my fellow-officers are desirous of my
friendship.  Here as merry as in so false a place, and where I must
dissemble my hatred, I could be, and after dinner my father and wife to a
play, and I to my office, and there busy all the afternoon till late at
night, and then my wife and I sang a song or two in the garden, and so
home to supper and to bed.  This afternoon comes Mr. Pierce to me about
some business, and tells me that the Duke of Cambridge is yet living, but
every minute expected to die, and is given over by all people, which
indeed is a sad loss.

7th.  Up, and after with my flageolet and Mr. Townsend, whom I sent for to
come to me to discourse about my Lord Sandwich's business; for whom I am
in some pain, lest the Accounts of the Wardrobe may not be in so good
order as may please the new Lords Treasurers, who are quick-sighted, and
under obligations of recommending themselves to the King and the world, by
their finding and mending of faults, and are, most of them, not the best
friends to my Lord, and to the office, and there all the morning. At noon
home to dinner, my father, wife, and I, and a good dinner, and then to the
office again, where busy all the afternoon, also I have a desire to
dispatch all business that hath lain long on my hands, and so to it till
the evening, and then home to sing and pipe with my wife, and then to
supper and to bed, my head full of thoughts how to keep if I can some part
of my wages as Surveyor of the Victualling, which I see must now come to
be taken away among the other places that have been occasioned by this
war, and the rather because I have of late an inclination to keep a coach.
Ever since my drinking, two days ago, some very Goole drink at Sir W.
Coventry's table I have been full of wind and with some pain, and I was
afraid last night that it would amount to much, but, blessed be God!  I
find that the worst is past, so that I do clearly see that all the
indisposition I am liable to-day as to sickness is only the Colique.  This
day I read (shown me by Mr. Gibson) a discourse newly come forth of the
King of France, his pretence to Flanders, which is a very fine discourse,
and the truth is, hath so much of the Civil Law in it, that I am not a fit
judge of it, but, as it appears to me, he hath a good pretence to it by
right of his Queene.  So to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the office, where all the news this morning is, that the
Dutch are come with a fleete of eighty sail to Harwich, and that guns were
heard plain by Sir W. Rider's people at Bednallgreene, all yesterday even.
So to the office, we all sat all the morning, and then home to dinner,
where our dinner a ham of French bacon, boiled with pigeons, an excellent
dish.  Here dined with us only W. Hewer and his mother.  After dinner to
the office again, where busy till night, and then home and to read a
little and then to bed.  The news is confirmed that the Dutch are off of
Harwich, but had done nothing last night.  The King hath sent down my Lord
of Oxford to raise the countries there; and all the Westerne barges are
taken up to make a bridge over the River, about the Hope, for horse to
cross the River, if there be occasion.

9th (Lord's day).  Up, and by water to White Hall, and so walked to St.
James's, where I hear that the Duke of Cambridge, who was given over long
since by the Doctors, is now likely to recover; for which God be praised!
To Sir W. Coventry, and there talked with him a great while; and mighty
glad I was of my good fortune to visit him, for it keeps in my
acquaintance with him, and the world sees it, and reckons my interest
accordingly.  In comes my Lord Barkeley, who is going down to Harwich also
to look after the militia there: and there is also the Duke of Monmouth,
and with him a great many young Hectors, the Lord Chesterfield, my Lord
Mandeville, and others: but to little purpose, I fear, but to debauch the
country women thereabouts.  My Lord Barkeley wanting some maps, and Sir W.
Coventry recommending the six maps of England that are bound up for the
pocket, I did offer to present my Lord with them, which he accepted: and
so I will send them him.  Thence to White Hall, and there to the Chapel,
where I met Creed, and he and I staid to hear who preached, which was a
man who begun dully, and so we away by water and landed in Southwarke, and
to a church in the street where we take water beyond the bridge, which was
so full and the weather hot that we could not stand there.  So to my
house, where we find my father and wife at dinner, and after dinner Creed
and I by water to White Hall, and there we parted, and I to Sir G.
Carteret's, where, he busy, I up into the house, and there met with a
gentleman, Captain Aldrige, that belongs to my Lord Barkeley, and I did
give him the book of maps for my Lord, and so I to Westminster Church and
there staid a good while, and saw Betty Michell there.  So away thence,
and after church time to Mrs. Martin's, and then hazer what I would with
her, and then took boat and up, all alone, a most excellent evening, as
high as Barne Elmes, and there took a turn; and then to my boat again, and
home, reading and making an end of the book I lately bought a merry satyr
called "The Visions," translated from Spanish by L'Estrange, wherein there
are many very pretty things; but the translation is, as to the rendering
it into English expression, the best that ever I saw, it being impossible
almost to conceive that it should be a translation.  Being come home I
find an order come for the getting some fire-ships presently to annoy the
Dutch, who are in the King's Channel, and expected up higher.  So [Sir] W.
Batten and [Sir] W. Pen being come this evening from their country houses
to town we did issue orders about it, and then home to supper and, to bed,

10th.  Up; and news brought us that, the Dutch are come up as high as the
Nore; and more pressing orders for fireships.  W. Batten, W. Pen, and I to
St. James's; where the Duke of York gone this morning betimes, to send
away some men down to Chatham.  So we three to White Hall, and met Sir W.
Coventry, who presses all that is possible for fire-ships.  So we three to
the office presently; and thither comes Sir Fretcheville Hollis, who is to
command them all in some exploits he is to do with them on the enemy in
the River.  So we all down to Deptford, and pitched upon ships and set men
at work: but, Lord! to see how backwardly things move at this pinch,
notwithstanding that, by the enemy's being now come up as high as almost
the Hope, Sir J. Minnes, who has gone down to pay some ships there, hath
sent up the money; and so we are possessed of money to do what we will
with.  Yet partly ourselves, being used to be idle and in despair, and
partly people that have been used to be deceived by us as to money, won't
believe us; and we know not, though we have it, how almost to promise it;
and our wants such, and men out of the way, that it is an admirable thing
to consider how much the King suffers, and how necessary it is in a State
to keep the King's service always in a good posture and credit.  Here I
eat a bit, and then in the afternoon took boat and down to Greenwich,
where I find the stairs full of people, there being a great riding

     [It was an ancient custom in Berkshire, when a man had beaten his
     wife, for the neighbours to parade in front of his house, for the
     purpose of serenading him with kettles, and horns and hand-bells,
     and every species of "rough music," by which name the ceremony was
     designated.  Perhaps the riding mentioned by Pepys was a punishment
     somewhat similar.  Malcolm ("Manners of London") quotes from the
     "Protestant Mercury," that a porter's lady, who resided near Strand
     Lane, beat her husband with so much violence and perseverance, that
     the poor man was compelled to leap out of the window to escape her
     fury.  Exasperated at this virago, the neighbours made a "riding,"
     i.e. a pedestrian procession, headed by a drum, and accompanied by a
     chemise, displayed for a banner.  The manual musician sounded the
     tune of "You round-headed cuckolds, come dig, come dig!" and nearly
     seventy coalheavers, carmen, and porters, adorned with large horns
     fastened to their heads, followed.  The public seemed highly pleased
     with the nature of the punishment, and gave liberally to the
     vindicators of injured manhood.--B.]

there to-day for a man, the constable of the town, whose wife beat him.
Here I was with much ado fain to press two watermen to make me a galley,
and so to Woolwich to give order for the dispatch of a ship I have taken
under my care to see dispatched, and orders being so given, I, under
pretence to fetch up the ship, which lay at Grays (the Golden Hand),

     [The "Golden Hand" was to have been used for the conveyance of the
     Swedish Ambassadors' horses and goods to Holland.  In August, 1667,
     Frances, widow of Captain Douglas and daughter of Lord Grey,
     petitioned the king "for a gift of the prize ship Golden Hand, now
     employed in weighing the ships sunk at Chatham, where her husband
     lost his life in defence of the ships against the Dutch" ("Calendar
     of State Papers," 1667, p. 430)]

did do that in my way, and went down to Gravesend, where I find the Duke
of Albemarle just come, with a great many idle lords and gentlemen, with
their pistols and fooleries; and the bulwarke not able to have stood half
an hour had they come up; but the Dutch are fallen down from the Hope and
Shell-haven as low as Sheernesse, and we do plainly at this time hear the
guns play.  Yet I do not find the Duke of Albemarle intends to go thither,
but stays here to-night, and hath, though the Dutch are gone, ordered our
frigates to be brought to a line between the two blockhouses; which I took
then to be a ridiculous thing.  So I away into the town and took a captain
or two of our ships (who did give me an account of the proceedings of the
Dutch fleete in the river) to the taverne, and there eat and drank, and I
find the townsmen had removed most of their goods out of the town, for
fear of the Dutch coming up to them; and from Sir John Griffen, that last
night there was not twelve men to be got in the town to defend it: which
the master of the house tells me is not true, but that the men of the town
did intend to stay, though they did indeed, and so had he, at the Ship,
removed their goods.  Thence went off to an Ostend man-of-war, just now
come up, who met the Dutch fleete, who took three ships that he come
convoying hither from him says they are as low as the Nore, or
thereabouts.  So I homeward, as long as it was light reading Mr. Boyle's
book of Hydrostatics, which is a most excellent book as ever I read, and I
will take much pains to understand him through if I can, the doctrine
being very useful.  When it grew too dark to read I lay down and took a
nap, it being a most excellent fine evening, and about one o'clock got
home, and after having wrote to Sir W. Coventry an account of what I had
done and seen (which is entered in my letter-book), I to bed.

11th.  Up, and more letters still from Sir W. Coventry about more
fire-ships, and so Sir W. Batten and I to the office, where Bruncker come
to us, who is just now going to Chatham upon a desire of Commissioner
Pett's, who is in a very fearful stink for fear of the Dutch, and desires
help for God and the King and kingdom's sake.  So Bruncker goes down, and
Sir J. Minnes also, from Gravesend.  This morning Pett writes us word that
Sheernesse is lost last night, after two or three hours' dispute. The
enemy hath possessed himself of that place; which is very sad, and puts us
into great fears of Chatham.  Sir W. Batten and I down by water to
Deptford, and there Sir W. Pen and we did consider of several matters
relating to the dispatch of the fire-ships, and so [Sir] W. Batten and I
home again, and there to dinner, my wife and father having dined, and
after dinner, by W. Hewer's lucky advice, went to Mr. Fenn, and did get
him to pay me above L400 of my wages, and W. Hewer received it for me, and
brought it home this night.  Thence I meeting Mr. Moore went toward the
other end of the town by coach, and spying Mercer in the street, I took
leave of Moore and 'light and followed her, and at Paul's overtook her and
walked with her through the dusty street almost to home, and there in
Lombard Street met The. Turner in coach, who had been at my house to see
us, being to go out of town to-morrow to the Northward, and so I promised
to see her tomorrow, and then home, and there to our business, hiring some
fire-ships, and receiving every hour almost letters from Sir W. Coventry,
calling for more fire-ships; and an order from Council to enable us to
take any man's ships; and Sir W. Coventry, in his letter to us, says he do
not doubt but at this time, under an invasion, as he owns it to be, the
King may, by law, take any man's goods.  At this business late, and then
home; where a great deal of serious talk with my wife about the sad state
we are in, and especially from the beating up of drums this night for the
trainbands upon pain of death to appear in arms to-morrow morning with
bullet and powder, and money to supply themselves with victuals for a
fortnight; which, considering the soldiers drawn out to Chatham and
elsewhere, looks as if they had a design to ruin the City and give it up
to be undone; which, I hear, makes the sober citizens to think very sadly
of things.  So to bed after supper, ill in my mind. This afternoon Mrs.
Williams sent to me to speak with her, which I did, only about news.  I
had not spoke with her many a day before by reason of Carcasses business.

12th.  Up very betimes to our business at the office, there hiring of more
fire-ships; and at it close all the morning.  At noon home, and Sir W. Pen
dined with us.  By and by, after dinner, my wife out by coach to see her
mother; and I in another, being afraid, at this busy time, to be seen with
a woman in a coach, as if I were idle, towards The. Turner's; but met Sir
W. Coventry's boy; and there in his letter find that the Dutch had made no
motion since their taking Sheernesse; and the Duke of Albemarle writes
that all is safe as to the great ships against any assault, the boom and
chaine being so fortified; which put my heart into great joy.

     [There had been correspondence with Pett respecting this chain in
     April and May.  On the 10th May Pett wrote to the Navy
     Commissioners, "The chain is promised to be dispatched to-morrow,
     and all things are ready for fixing it."  On the 11th June the Dutch
     "got twenty or twenty-two ships over the narrow part of the river at
     Chatham, where ships had been sunk; after two and a half hours'
     fighting one guard-ship after another was fired and blown up, and
     the enemy master of the chain" ("Calendar of State Papers," 1667,
     pp. 58, 87, 215).]

When I come to Sir W: Coventry's chamber, I find him abroad; but his
clerk, Powell, do tell me that ill newes is come to Court of the Dutch
breaking the Chaine at Chatham; which struck me to the heart.  And to
White Hall to hear the truth of it; and there, going up the back-stairs, I
did hear some lacquies speaking of sad newes come to Court, saying, that
hardly anybody in the Court but do look as if he cried, and would not go
into the house for fear of being seen, but slunk out and got into a coach,
and to The. Turner's to Sir W. Turner's, where I met Roger Pepys, newly
come out of the country.  He and I talked aside a little, he offering a
match for Pall, one Barnes, of whom we shall talk more the next time.  His
father married a Pepys; in discourse, he told me further that his
grandfather, my great grandfather, had L800 per annum, in Queen
Elizabeth's time, in the very town of Cottenham; and that we did certainly
come out of Scotland with the Abbot of Crowland.  More talk I had, and
shall have more with him, but my mind is so sad and head full of this ill
news that I cannot now set it down.  A short visit here, my wife coming to
me, and took leave of The., and so home, where all our hearts do now ake;
for the newes is true, that the Dutch have broke the chaine and burned our
ships, and particularly "The Royal Charles,"

     [Vandervelde's drawings of the conflagration of the English fleet,
     made by him on the spot, are in the British Museum.--B.]

other particulars I know not, but most sad to be sure.  And, the truth is,
I do fear so much that the whole kingdom is undone, that I do this night
resolve to study with my father and wife what to do with the little that I
have in money by me, for I give [up] all the rest that I have in the
King's hands, for Tangier, for lost.  So God help us! and God knows what
disorders we may fall into, and whether any violence on this office, or
perhaps some severity on our persons, as being reckoned by the silly
people, or perhaps may, by policy of State, be thought fit to be condemned
by the King and Duke of York, and so put to trouble; though, God knows!  I
have, in my own person, done my full duty, I am sure.  So having with much
ado finished my business at the office, I home to consider with my father
and wife of things, and then to supper and to bed with a heavy heart.  The
manner of my advising this night with my father was, I took him and my
wife up to her chamber, and shut the door; and there told them the sad
state of the times how we are like to be all undone; that I do fear some
violence will be offered to this office, where all I have in the world is;
and resolved upon sending it away--sometimes into the country--sometimes
my father to lie in town, and have the gold with him at Sarah Giles's, and
with that resolution went to bed full of fear and fright, hardly slept all
night.

13th.  No sooner up but hear the sad newes confirmed of the Royall Charles
being taken by them, and now in fitting by them--which Pett should have
carried up higher by our several orders, and deserves, therefore, to be
hanged for not doing it--and turning several others; and that another
fleete is come up into the Hope.  Upon which newes the King and Duke of
York have been below--[Below London Bridge.]--since four o'clock in the
morning, to command the sinking of ships at Barking-Creeke, and other
places, to stop their coming up higher: which put me into such a fear,
that I presently resolved of my father's and wife's going into the
country; and, at two hours' warning, they did go by the coach this day,
with about L1300 in gold in their night-bag.  Pray God give them good
passage, and good care to hide it when they come home! but my heart is
full of fear: They gone, I continued in fright and fear what to do with
the rest.  W. Hewer hath been at the banker's, and hath got L500 out of
Backewell's hands of his own money; but they are so called upon that they
will be all broke, hundreds coming to them for money: and their answer is,
"It is payable at twenty days--when the days are out, we will pay you;"
and those that are not so, they make tell over their money, and make their
bags false, on purpose to give cause to retell it, and so spend time.  I
cannot have my 200 pieces of gold again for silver, all being bought up
last night that were to be had, and sold for 24 and 25s.  a-piece.  So I
must keep the silver by me, which sometimes I think to fling into the
house of office, and then again know not how I shall come by it, if we be
made to leave the office.  Every minute some one or other calls for this
or that order; and so I forced to be at the office, most of the day, about
the fire-ships which are to be suddenly fitted out: and it's a most
strange thing that we hear nothing from any of my brethren at Chatham; so
that we are wholly in the dark, various being the reports of what is done
there; insomuch that I sent Mr. Clapham express thither to see how matters
go: I did, about noon, resolve to send Mr. Gibson away after my wife with
another 1000 pieces, under colour of an express to Sir Jeremy Smith; who
is, as I hear, with some ships at Newcastle; which I did really send to
him, and may, possibly, prove of good use to the King; for it is possible,
in the hurry of business, they may not think of it at Court, and the
charge of an express is not considerable to the King.  So though I intend
Gibson no further than to Huntingdon I direct him to send the packet
forward.  My business the most of the afternoon is listening to every body
that comes to the office, what news? which is variously related, some
better, some worse, but nothing certain.  The King and Duke of York up and
down all the day here and there: some time on Tower Hill, where the City
militia was; where the King did make a speech to them, that they should
venture themselves no further than he would himself.  I also sent, my mind
being in pain, Saunders after my wife and father, to overtake them at
their night's lodgings, to see how matters go with them.  In the evening,
I sent for my cousin Sarah [Gyles] and her husband, who come; and I did
deliver them my chest of writings about Brampton, and my brother Tom's
papers, and my journalls, which I value much; and did send my two silver
flaggons to Kate Joyce's: that so, being scattered what I have, something
might be saved.  I have also made a girdle, by which, with some trouble, I
do carry about me L300 in gold about my body, that I may not be without
something in case I should be surprised: for I think, in any nation but
our's, people that appear (for we are not indeed so) so faulty as we,
would have their throats cut.  In the evening comes Mr. Pelling, and
several others, to the office, and tell me that never were people so
dejected as they are in the City all over at this day; and do talk most
loudly, even treason; as, that we are bought and sold--that we are
betrayed by the Papists, and others, about the King; cry out that the
office of the Ordnance hath been so backward as no powder to have been at
Chatham nor Upnor Castle till such a time, and the carriages all broken;
that Legg is a Papist; that Upnor, the old good castle built by Queen
Elizabeth, should be lately slighted; that the ships at Chatham should not
be carried up higher.  They look upon us as lost, and remove their
families and rich goods in the City; and do think verily that the French,
being come down with his army to Dunkirke, it is to invade us, and that we
shall be invaded.  Mr. Clerke, the, solicitor, comes to me about business,
and tells me that he hears that the King hath chosen Mr. Pierpont and
Vaughan of the West, Privy-councillors; that my Lord Chancellor was
affronted in the Hall this day, by people telling him of his Dunkirke
house; and that there are regiments ordered to be got together, whereof to
be commanders my Lord Fairfax, Ingoldsby, Bethell, Norton, and Birch, and
other Presbyterians; and that Dr. Bates will have liberty to preach.  Now,
whether this be true or not, I know not; but do think that nothing but
this will unite us together.  Late at night comes Mr. "After all, there is
nothing like personal experience."
And then all three were silent, lost in profound consideration.
Shortly afterwards they bade one another adieu, declaring that they had
greatly enjoyed their Cabinet Council.

It was some hours later that a soldier, wearing the uniform of the Guards,
appeared at the Wellington Barracks, and requested that he might be permitted
to undertake a spell of "sentry go." He was not known by the Non-commissioned
Officer on duty, but as his papers appeared to be correct, permission was
given him to act as substitute for Private SMITH, who was next on
the roster.
And about the same time a person, wearing the garb of a convict,
made his way to one of Her Majesty's Prisons, and requested an
interview with the Governor.But we hear that the fleete in the Hope is not come up any
higher the last flood; and Sir W. Batten tells me that ships are provided
to sink in the River, about Woolwich, that will prevent their coming up
higher if they should attempt it.  I made my will also this day, and did
give all I had equally between my father and wife, and left copies of it
in each of Mr. Hater and W. Hewer's hands, who both witnessed the will,
and so to supper and then to bed, and slept pretty well, but yet often
waking.

14th.  Up, and to the office; where Mr. Fryer comes and tells me that
there are several Frenchmen and Flemish ships in the River, with passes
from the Duke of York for carrying of prisoners, that ought to be parted
from the rest of the ships, and their powder taken, lest they do fire
themselves when the enemy comes, and so spoil us; which is good advice,
and I think I will give notice of it; and did so.  But it is pretty odd to
see how every body, even at this high time of danger, puts business off of
their own hands!  He says that he told this to the Lieutenant of the
Tower, to whom I, for the same reason, was directing him to go; and the
Lieutenant of the Tower bade him come to us, for he had nothing to do with
it; and yesterday comes Captain Crew, of one of the fireships, and told me
that the officers of the Ordnance would deliver his gunner's materials,
but not compound them,

     [Meaning, apparently, that the Ordnance would deliver the charcoal,
     sulphur, and saltpetre separately, but not mix them as gunpowder.]

     The loyalty of the masses and most of the leaders of the southern
     people, consists in submission to necessity.

          There is, except in individual instances, an entire
          absence of that national spirit which forms the
          basis of true loyalty and patriotism.
          

The emancipation of the slaves is submitted to only in so far as chattel
slavery in the old form could not be kept up. But although the
freedman is no longer considered the property of the individual master,
he is considered the slave of society, and all independent State legislation
will share the tendency to make him such. The ordinances abolishing
slavery passed by the conventions under the pressure of circumstances,
will not be looked upon as barring the establishment of a new form of
servitude.

Practical attempts on the part of the southern people to deprive the
negro of his rights as a freeman may result in bloody collisions, and
will certainly plunge southern society into restless fluctuations
and anarchical confusion. Such evils can be prevented only by continuing
the control of the national government in the States lately in rebellion
until free labor is fully developed and firmly established, and the advantages
and blessings of the new order of things have disclosed themselves.
This desirable result will be hastened by a firm declaration on the part
of the government, that national control in the south will not cease until
such results are secured. Only in this way can that security be established
in the south which will render numerous immigration possible, and such
immigration would materially aid a favorable development of things.

The solution of the problem would be very much facilitated by enabling all
the loyal and free-labor elements in the south to exercise a healthy influence
upon legislation. It will hardly be possible to secure the freedman
against oppressive class legislation and private persecution, unless he
be endowed with a certain measure of political power.

As to the future peace and harmony of the Union, it is of the highest
importance that the people lately in rebellion be not permitted to
build up another "peculiar institution" whose spirit is in conflict with
the fundamental principles of our political system; for as long as they
cherish interests peculiar to them in preference to those they have in
common with the rest of the American people, their loyalty to the Union
will always be uncertain.

I desire not to be understood as saying that there are no well-meaning
men among those who were compromised in the rebellion. There are
many, but neither their number nor their influence is strong enough
to control the manifest tendency of the popular spirit. There are
great reasons for hope that a determined policy on the part of the
national government will produce innumerable and valuable conversions.
This consideration counsels lenity as to persons, such as is demanded
by the humane and enlightened spirit of our times, and vigor and
firmness in the carrying out of principles, such as is demanded by
the national sense of justice and the exigencies of our situation.And Pelling, the Potticary,
tells me the world says all over, that less charge than what the kingdom
is put to, of one kind or other, by this business, would have set out all
our great ships.  It is said they did in open streets yesterday, at
Westminster, cry, "A Parliament! a Parliament!" and I do believe it will
cost blood to answer for these miscarriages.  We do not hear that the
Dutch are come to Gravesend; which is a wonder.  But a wonderful thing it
is that to this day we have not one word yet from Bruncker, or Peter Pett,
or J. Minnes, of any thing at Chatham.  The people that come hither to
hear how things go, make me ashamed to be found unable to answer them: for
I am left alone here at the office; and the truth is, I am glad my station
is to be here, near my own home and out of danger, yet in a place of doing
the King good service.  I have this morning good news from Gibson; three
letters from three several stages, that he was safe last night as far as
Royston, at between nine and ten at night.  The dismay that is upon us
all, in the business of the kingdom and Navy at this day, is not to be
expressed otherwise than by the condition the citizens were in when the
City was on fire, nobody knowing which way to turn themselves, while every
thing concurred to greaten the fire; as here the easterly gale and
spring-tides for coming up both rivers, and enabling them to break the
chaine.  D. Gawden did tell me yesterday, that the day before at the
Council they were ready to fall together by the ears at the Council-table,
arraigning one another of being guilty of the counsel that brought us into
this misery, by laying up all the great ships.  Mr. Hater tells me at noon
that some rude people have been, as he hears, at my Lord Chancellor's,
where they have cut down the trees before his house and broke his windows;
and a gibbet either set up before or painted upon his gate, and these
three words writ:  "Three sights to be seen; Dunkirke, Tangier, and a
barren Queene."

        ["Pride, Lust, Ambition, and the People's Hate,
          The kingdom's broker, ruin of the State,
          Dunkirk's sad loss, divider of the fleet,
          Tangier's compounder for a barren sheet
          This shrub of gentry, married to the crown,
          His daughter to the heir, is tumbled down."

                    Poems on State Affairs, vol. i., p. 253.--B.]

It gives great matter of talk that it is said there is at this hour, in
the Exchequer, as much money as is ready to break down the floor.  This
arises, I believe, from Sir G. Downing's late talk of the greatness of the
sum lying there of people's money, that they would not fetch away, which
he shewed me and a great many others.  A disordered state of the stomach,
of which a vomiting of _bile_ may be one symptom, is also to be ranked
among the _occasional causes_ of _headach_.

These _occasional causes_ do not in general produce their effect, unless
where a _predisposition_ to the disease exists.Hewer with me; where they do speak very
sorrowfully of the posture of the times, and how people do cry out in the
streets of their being bought and sold; and both they, and every body that
come to me, do tell me that people make nothing of talking treason in the
streets openly: as, that we are bought and sold, and governed by Papists,
and that we are betrayed by people about the King, and shall be delivered
up to the French, and I know not what.  At dinner we discoursed of Tom of
the Wood, a fellow that lives like a hermit near Woolwich, who, as they
say, and Mr. Bodham,  they tell me, affirms that he was by at the
justice's when some did accuse him there for it, did foretell the burning
of the City, and now says that a greater desolation is at hand.  Thence we
read and laughed at Lilly's prophecies this month, in his Almanack this
year!  So to the office after dinner; and thither comes Mr. Pierce, who
tells me his condition, how he cannot get his money, about L500, which, he
says, is a very great part of what he hath for his family and children,
out of Viner's hand: and indeed it is to be feared that this will wholly
undo the bankers.  He says he knows nothing of the late affronts to my
Lord Chancellor's house, as is said, nor hears of the Duke of Albemarle's
being made High Constable; but says that they are in great distraction at
White Hall, and that every where people do speak high against Sir W.
Coventry: but he agrees with me, that he is the best Minister of State the
King hath, and so from my heart I believe.  At night come home Sir W.
Batten and W. Mr. Ladd is now the President of the American Peace
Society. In a letter dated November 29, 1838, Mr. Ladd says:

"While I lived in Florida I knew a slaveholder whose name was Hutchinson,
he had been a preacher and a member of the Senate of Georgia. He told
me that he dared not keep a gun in his house, because he was so passionate;
and that he had _been the death of three or four men_. I understood him
to mean _slaves_. One of his slaves, a girl, once came to my house.
She had run away from him at Indian river. The cords of one of her hands
were so much contracted that her hand was useless. It was said that he
had thrust her hand into the fire while he was in a fit of passion, and
held it there, and this was the effect. My wife had hid the girl,
when Hutchinson came for her. Out of compassion for the poor slave, I offered
him more than she was worth, which he refused. We afterward let the girl
escape, and I do not know what became of her, but I believe he never got
her again. It was currently reported of Hutchinson, that he once knocked
down a _new_ negro (one recently from Africa) who was clearing up land,
and who complained of the cold, as it was mid-winter. The slave was
stunned with the blow. Hutchinson, supposing he had the 'sulks,' applied
fire to the side of the slave until it was so roasted that he said the
slave was not worth curing, and ordered the other slaves to pile on brush,
and he was consumed.

"A murder occurred at the settlement, (Musquito) while I lived
there.
An overseer from Georgia, who was employed by a Mr. Cormick, in a
fit of jealousy shot a slave of Samuel Williams, the owner of the
next plantation. He was apprehended, but afterward suffered to
escape. This man told me that he had rather whip a negro than sit
down to the best dinner.I doubt they will be found
to have been but slow men in this business; and they say the Duke of
Albemarle did tell my Lord Bruncker to his face that his discharging of
the great ships there was the cause of all this; and I am told that it is
become common talk against my Lord Bruncker.  But in that he is to be
justified, for he did it by verbal order from Sir W. Coventry, and with
good intent; and it was to good purpose, whatever the success be, for the
men would have but spent the King so much the more in wages, and yet not
attended on board to have done the King any service; and as an evidence of
that, just now, being the 15th day in the morning that I am writing
yesterday's passages, one is with me, Jacob Bryan, Purser of "The
Princesse," who confesses to me that he hath about 180 men borne at this
day in victuals and wages on that ship lying at Chatham, being lately
brought in thither; of which 180 there was not above five appeared to do
the King any service at this late business.  And this morning also, some
of the Cambridge's men come up from Portsmouth, by order from Sir
Fretcheville Hollis, who boasted to us the other day that he had sent for
50, and would be hanged if 100 did not come up that would do as much as
twice the number of other men: I say some of them, instead of being at
work at Deptford, where they were intended, do come to the office this
morning to demand the payment of their tickets; for otherwise they would,
they said, do no more work; and are, as I understand from every body that
has to do with them, the most debauched, damning, swearing rogues that
ever were in the Navy, just like their prophane commander.  It was here
that the zealous pilgrim, strong in bigot faith, rested his weary limbs,
when the inspiring name of Becket led him from the rustic simplicity of
his native home, to view the spot where Becket fell, and to murmur his
pious supplication at the shrine of the murdered Saint; how often has his
toil-worn frame been sheltered beneath that hospitable roof; imagination
can even portray him entering the area of yon pointed arch, leaning
on his slender staff--perhaps some wanderer from a foreign land.

No newes more than last night; only
Purser Tyler comes and tells me that he being at all the passages in this
business at Chatham, he says there have been horrible miscarriages, such
as we shall shortly hear of: that the want of boats hath undone us; and it
is commonly said, and Sir J. Minnes under his hand tells us, that they
were employed by the men of the Yard to carry away their goods; and I hear
that Commissioner Pett will be found the first man that began to remove;
he is much spoken against, and Bruncker is complained of and reproached
for discharging the men of the great ships heretofore.  But several instances
have come to my knowledge, in which Union men of a sterner cast than those
described as acquiescing compromisers were defeated in the election, and,
aside from Mr. Crawford's case, none in which they succeeded.

The impulses by which voters were actuated in making their choice appeared
more clearly in the canvass for State officers, Congressmen, and members
of the legislature, when the antecedents and political views of candidates
were more closely scrutinized and a warmer contest took place. The population
of those places in the south which have been longest in the
possession of our armies is generally the most accommodating as to
the new order of things; at least the better elements are there in
greater relative strength.He had one of his bags broke, through his breeches, and some pieces
dropped out, not many, he thinks, but two, for he 'light, and took them
up, and went back and could find no more.  But I am not able to tell how
many, which troubles me, but the joy of having the greatest part safe
there makes me bear with it, so as not to afflict myself for it.  This
afternoon poor Betty Michell, whom I love, sent to tell my wife her child
was dying, which I am troubled for, poor girle! At night home and to my
flageolet.  Spalding, observed, that whenever he used a diet of animal food,
or drank spirituous liquors, he consumed in a much shorter period the
oxygen of the atmospheric air in his diving-bell; and he therefore, on
such occasions, confined himself to vegetable diet.

He also found the same effect to arise from the use of fermented
liquors, and he accordingly restricted himself to the potation of simple
water.
The truth of these results is confirmed by the habits of the Indian
pearl-divers, who always abstain from every alimentary stimulus previous
to their descent into the ocean.--_Dr. Paris on Diet._
* * * * *
THE MONTHS 

The season has now advanced to full maturity.At noon home to dinner,
and much good discourse with him, he being mighty sensible of our misery
and mal-administration.  Talking of these straits we are in, he tells me
that my Lord Arlington did the last week take up L12,000 in gold, which is
very likely, for all was taken up that could be.  Discoursing afterwards
with him of our family he told me, that when I come to his house he will
show me a decree in Chancery, wherein there was twenty-six men all
housekeepers in the town of Cottenham, in Queene Elizabeth's time, of our
name.  He to church again in the afternoon, I staid at home busy, and did
show some dalliance to my maid Nell, speaking to her of her sweetheart
which she had, silly girle.  After sermon Roger Pepys comes again.  I
spent the evening with him much troubled with the thoughts of the evils of
our time, whereon we discoursed.  The life of the late George Canning
furnishes much matter for meditation and thought. From it much may be
learnt. He was a genius, in the most unlimited sense of the word; and his
intellectual endowments were commanding and imperative.
Batten signed it with me, which I could wish I had
done alone.  Roger Pepys gone, I to the garden, and there dallied a while
all alone with Mrs. Markham, and then home to my chamber and to read and
write, and then to supper and to bed.

