  _When I had shooed the bird away
    And plucked the plums--a quart or more--
  I noted that the saucy jay,
  Albeit he had naught to say,
    Appeared much bluer than before._

After crediting the judge with a purposely awful parody on "Dixie," in
which "banner" is made to rhyme with "Savannah," and "holy" with
"Pensacola," Field concluded the whimsical fabrication with the
serious comment: "It seems a pity that such poetic talent as Judge
Cooley evinced was not suffered to develop. His increasing
professional duties and his political employments put a quietus to
those finer intellectual indulgences with which his earlier years were
fruitful."

Having launched this piece of literary drollery, over which he had
studied and we had talked for a week or more, Field proceeded to
clinch the verse-making on Judge Cooley by a series of letters to
himself, one or two of which will indicate the fertile cleverness and
humor he employed to cram his bald fabrication down the public gullet.
The first appeared on January 24th, in the following letter "to the
Editor":

  I have read Judge Cooley's poems with a good deal of interest. I am
  somewhat of a poet myself, having written sonnets and things now and
  then for the last twenty years. My opinion is that Judge Cooley's
  translations, paraphrases, and imitations, are much worthier than his
  original work. I hold that no poet can be a true poet unless he is at
  the same time somewhat of a naturalist. If Judge Cooley had been
  anything of a naturalist he would never have made such a serious
  blunder as he has made in his poem entitled "Lines to a Blue Jay." The
  idea of putting a blue jay into a plum-tree is simply shocking! I don't
  know when I've had anything grate so harshly upon my feelings as did
  this mistake when I discovered it this morning. It is as awful as the
  blunder made by one of the modern British poets (I forget his name) in
  referring to the alligators paddling about in Lake Erie. The blue jay
  _(Cyanurus cristatus)_ does not eat plums, and therefore does not
  infest plum-trees.

  Yours truly,

  CADMON E. BATES.

Upon which Field, in his editorial plurality, commented:

  To Professor Bates's criticism we shall venture no reply. We think,
  however, that allowance should be made for the youth of the poet
  when he committed the offence which so grievously torments our
  correspondent. It might be argued, too, that the jay of which the
  poet treats is no ordinary bird, but is one of those omnivorous
  creatures which greedily pounce upon everything coming within
  their predatory reach.

And two days later he made bold to crush the judge's critics with
letters from the same versatile pen that never failed to aid in the
furtherance of its master's hoaxes:

  To the Editor: Prof. Bates may be a good taxidermist, but he knows
  little of ornithology. Never before he spoke was it denied that the
  _Cyanurus cristatus_ (blue jay) fed upon plums. All the insect-eating
  birds also eat of the small fruits. It is plain that the poet knew
  this, even though the taxidermist didn't.

  Yours truly,

  L.R. COWPERTHWAITE.

  To the Editor: Isn't Prof. Bates too severe in his claim that genius
  like that of the poetic Judge Cooley should be bound down by the
  prosaic facts of ornithology? Milton scorned fidelity to nature,
  especially when it came to ornithological details, and poets, as a
  class, have been singularly wayward in this respect. My impression is
  that Judge Cooley has simply made use of a poetic license which any
  fair-minded person should be willing to concede the votaries of the
  muse.

  Yours truly,

  J.G.K.

The echoes of Judge Cooley's youthful verse were never permitted to
die wholly out of Field's column, but were frequently given renewed
life by casual references. Even the publication of "The Divine
Lullaby" in his "Little Book of Western Verse" did not prevent Field
from speaking of Judge Cooley's poetical diversions.

On another occasion he spent his odd time for weeks in preparing a
humorous hoax upon the critics of Chicago. It consisted of a number of
close imitations of the typical verses of Dr. Watts, in which he was a
master. The fruits of his congenial labor on this occasion are
preserved in his collected works. But the purpose for which they were
prepared adds to their interest. They were incorporated in a prose
article which gave a plausible account of how they had been exhumed
from the correspondence of a sentimental friend of Watts. When the
last strokes had been put upon the story, whose tone of genuineness
was calculated to deceive the elect, it was mailed to Charles A. Dana,
who was thoroughly in sympathy with Field in all such enterprises, and
on the following Sunday it appeared in the New York Sun as an extract
from a London paper. As soon as the publication reached Chicago a
number of the cleverest reporters on the News staff were sent out to
interview the local literary authorities. They were all carefully
coached by Field what questions to ask and what points to avoid, and
their reports were all turned over to him to prepare for publication.
Next morning the better part of a page of the News was surrendered to
quotations from the fictitious article, with learned dissertations on
the value of the discovery, coupled with careful comparisons of the
style and sentiments of the verse with the acknowledged work of Watts.
In the whole city only one of those interviewed was saved, by a
sceptical analysis, from falling into the pit so adroitly prepared by
Field.

Loyal to Chicago, to a degree incomprehensible by those who judged his
sentiments by his unsparing comments on its crudities in social and
literary ways, he never ceased to get pleasure out of serio-comic
confounding of its business activities and artistic aspirations. Its
business men and enterprises were constantly referred to in his column
as equally strenuous in the pursuit of the almighty dollar and of the
higher intellectual life. In his view "Culture's Garland," from the
Chicago stand-point, was, indeed, a string of sausages. Of this spirit
the following, printed in December, 1890, is a good example:

  A DANGER THAT THREATENS

  The rivalry between the trade and the literary interests in Chicago
  has been wondrously keen this year.

  Were more ambitious of a great reputation than of a good one What a man
  says should be what he thinks What are become of all our brave
  philosophical precepts?
  What can they not do, what do they fear to do (for beauty) What can
  they suffer who do not fear to die?

  What did I say? that I have? no, Chremes, I had What he did by
  nature and accident, he cannot do by design What is more accidental
  than reputation?
What may be done to-morrow, may be done to-day What more?Last year not more than 2,700 young authors contributed stories to
  the Christmas number of the Daily News: this year the number of
  contributors reached 6,125.

  Hitherto the rivalry between our trade and our literature has been
  friendly to a degree. The packer has patronized the poet;
  metaphorically speaking, the hog and the epic have lain down together
  and wallowed in the same Parnassan pool. The censers that have swung
  continually in the temple of the muses have been replenished with
  lard oil, and to our grateful olfactories has the joyous Lake breezes
  wafted the refreshing odors of sonnets and of slaughter pens
  commingled.

  But how long is this sort of thing going to last? It surely cannot be
  the millennium. These twin giants will some day--alas, too
  soon--learn their powers and be greedy to test them against one
  another. A fatal jealousy seems to be inevitable; it may be fended
  off, but how?

  The world's fair will be likely to precipitate a conflict between the
  interests of which we speak. Each interest is already claiming
  precedence, and we hear with alarm that less than a week ago one of
  our most respected packers threatened to withdraw his support of the
  international copyright bill unless the Chicago Literary Society
  united in an indorsement of his sugar-cured hams.

  When we think of the horrors that will attend and follow a set-to
  between Chicago trade and Chicago literature, we are prone to cry
  out, in the words of the immortal Moore--not Tom--but Mrs. Julia A.,
  of Michigan:

    _An awful tremor quakes the soul!
      And makes the heart to quiver,
    While up and down the spine doth roll
      A melancholy shiver._

In December, 1895, Edmund Clarence Stedman contributed to the "Souvenir
Book" of the New York Hebrew Fair a charmingly appreciative, yet justly
critical, tribute to Eugene Field, whom he likened to Shakespeare's
Yorick, whose "motley covered the sweetest nature and tenderest heart."
Mr. Stedman there speaks of Field as a "complex American with the
obstreperous _bizarrerie_ of the frontier and the artistic delicacy of
our oldest culture always at odds within him--but he was above all a
child of nature, a frolic incarnate, and just as he would have been in
any time or country." He also tells how Field put their friendship to
one of those tests which sooner or later he applied to all--the test of
linking their names with something utterly ludicrous and impossible,
but published with all the solemn earmarks of verity. It was on the
occasion of Mr. Stedman's visit to Chicago on its invitation to lecture
before the Twentieth Century Club. This gave Field the cue to announce
the coming event in a way to fill the visitor with consternation. About
two weeks before the poet-critic was expected, Field's column contained
the following innocent paragraph:

  Mr. Edmund Clarence Stedman, the poet, and the foremost of American
  critics, is about to visit Chicago. He comes as the guest of the
  Twentieth Century Club, and on the evening of Tuesday, the 28th
  inst., he will deliver before that discriminating body an address
  upon the subject of "Poetry," this address being one of the notable
  series which Mr. Stedman prepared for and read before the
  undergraduates of Johns Hopkins University last winter. These
  discourses are, as we judge from epitomes published in the New York
  Tribune, marvels of scholarship and of criticism.

  Twenty years have elapsed, as we understand, since Mr. Stedman last
  visited Chicago. He will find amazing changes, all in the nature of
  improvements. He will be delighted with the beauty of our city and
  with the appreciation, the intelligence, and the culture of our
  society. But what should and will please him most will be the
  cordiality of that reception which Chicago will give him, and the
  enthusiasm with which she will entertain this charming prince of
  American letters, this eminent poet, this mighty good fellow!

I doubt if Mr. Stedman ever saw this item, which Field merely
inserted, as was his wont, as a prelude to the whimsical announcement
which followed in two days, and which was eagerly copied in the New
York papers in time to make Mr. Stedman cast about for some excuse for
being somewhere else than in Chicago on the 29th of April, 1891. This
second notice is too good an instance of the liberty Field took with
the name of a friend in his delectable vocation of laying "the knotted
lash of sarcasm" about the shoulders of wealth and fashion of Chicago,
not to be quoted in full. It was given with all the precision of
typographical arrangement that is considered proper in printing a
veritable programme of some public procession, in the following terms:

