Sainte-Foix hastened to reply, upholding the soundness of the views he
had advanced.  He procured from Arras a copy of an entry in the registers
of the Cathedral Chapter, stating that Louis XIV had written with his own
hand to the said Chapter that they were to admit to burial the body of
the Comte de Vermandois, who had died in the city of Courtrai; that he
desired that the deceased should be interred in the centre of the choir,
in the vault in which lay the remains of Elisabeth, Comtesse de
Vermandois, wife of Philip of Alsace, Comte de Flanders, who had died in
1182.  Unfortunately, rather we should say fortunately, anyhow, for the
reading world, the 'commission pictures' were declined.

The disappointed artist, out of humour with Sens, made a series of journeys
in search of an ideal home, the result being that most entertaining and
successful book, "Round My House," and the final devotion of its author
to letters.

Sens might well seem an ideal place of abode to many. Formed from the
ancient Province of Burgundy, the Department of the Yonne has the
charm of Burgundian scenery, with the addition of a wide, lovely
river.

All travellers on the Lyons-Marseilles Railway will recall the noble
appearance of the town from the railway--the Cathedral, with its
one lofty tower, rising above grey roofs, no factory chimneys marring the
outline, and, between bright stretches of country, the Yonne, not least
enchanting of French rivers, if not the most striking or romantic, perhaps
the sweetest and most soothing in the world. The favourable impression of
Sens gained by this fleeting view, is more than justified on nearer
acquaintance. The Cathedral, externally less imposing than those of Bourges,
Rheims, or even Rodez and Beauvais, is of a piece alike without and
within, no tasteless excrescence disfiguring its outer walls,
little or no modern tawdriness to be seen inside, an architectural gem of
great purity. For the curious in such matters, the sacristy offers many
wonders, among others a large fragment of the true cross, presented
to Sens by Charlemagne. Less apocryphal are the vestments of our own
Archbishop Thomas, alb, girdle, stole, and the rest, all most carefully
preserved and exhibited in a glass case. It will be remembered that,
when the turbulent Thomas of London, afterwards known as Becket, was
condemned as a traitor, he fled to France. "This is a fearful day,"
said one of his attendants on hearing the sentence. "The Day of Judgment
will be more fearful," replied Thomas. It was not at Sens, however, that
the refugee took up his abode, but in the Abbey of St.

Colombe, now in ruins hard by.

On the other side of the bridge, crowning an islet, stands one of those
curious church_lets_, or churc_lings_ I was about to say, that possess
so powerful a fascination for the archaeological mind. Particularly striking
was the little Romanesque interior in the September twilight, a
picturesque group of Sisters of St.

Vincent de Paul, rehearsing canticles with their pupils at one end, the
subdued light just enabling us to realise the harmony of proportions.

This little church of St.
Maurice dating from the twelfth century, partly restored in the
sixteenth, must not on any account be missed.

Its pretty spire crowns the Isle d'Yonne, or island of the Yonne.

Chapter XIII.

ARCIS-SUR-AUBE.

Late and tired, I arrived, one September evening, at Arcis-sur-Aube,
birthplace and home of the great Danton.

I had brought with me letters of introduction to friends' friends, unaware
that at such a moment the sign-manual of the President of the Republic
himself would hardly have secured me a night's lodging. For at this
especial moment the little town, from end to end, was in the possession
of the military headquarters of that year's manoeuvres.

Every private dwelling showed a notice of the officers in command sheltered
under its roof. Here and there, the presence of sentinels indicated the
location of generals. The hotels were crowded from basement to attic,
folks who let lodgings for hire had made bargains long before, whilst
the very poorest made up beds, or turned out of their own, to accommodate
the rank and file. At the extreme end of the town, close to the ancestral
home of the Dantons, stands the straggling old-fashioned Hôtel de la
Poste, a hostelry, I should suppose, not in the least changed
since the days of the great conventionnel. All here was bustle and excitement.
Mine host was spitting game in the kitchen, and could hardly find
time to answer my application; soldiers and officers' servants, scullions
and men of all-work, almost knocked each other down in the inn-yard,
the landlady, generally so affable a personage in provincial France, gave
me the cold shoulder. I turned out in the forlorn hope of finding a good
Samaritan. Of course, to present a letter of introduction under such
circumstances, was quite out of the question, my errand would have been
the last hair to break the camel's back, final embarrassment of
an already overdone hostess.

But night was at hand; the last train to Troyes, the nearest town, had gone,
no other would pass through Arcis-sur-Aube until the small hours
of the morning.
Unless I could procure a room, therefore, I should be in the position of a
homeless vagrant. Well, not to be dismayed, I set out making inquiries
right and left, to my astonishment being rebuffed rather surlily and
with looks of suspicion. The fact is, during these manoeuvres, a lady
arriving at head-quarters alone is apt to be looked upon with no favourable
eye. Especially do people wonder what on earth can bring a foreigner
to an out of the way country place at such a time--she must surely
be a spy, pickpocket or something worse!

After having vainly made inquiries to no purpose along the principal street,
I turned into a grocer's shop in a smaller thoroughfare; two young
assistants were chatting without anything to do, and they looked so
good-natured that I entered and begged them to help me.

Very likely an English hobbledehoy similarly appealed to would have blushed,
giggled, and got rid of the stranger as quickly as possible; French youths
of all ranks have rather more of the man of the world in them.
The elder of the lads became at once interested in my case, and manifested
a keen desire to be serviceable.

Hailing a little girl from without, he bade her conduct me to a certain
Mademoiselle D---- who let rooms and might have one vacant. The little
maid, fetching a companion to accompany us--here also was a French trait;
whatever is done, must be done sociably--took me to the address
given; the demoiselle in question was, however, not at home, but the
concierge said that, another demoiselle living near would probably be
able to accommodate me, which she did. Before I proceed with my narrative,
however, I must mention the ill fortune that befell my useful
little cicerone.

On taking leave I had given her half a franc, a modest recompense enough
as I thought. The following story would seem to show that the good
people of Arcis have not yet become imbued with modern ideas about money,
also that they have a high notion of the value of truth. To my dismay I
learnt next morning that the poor little girl had been soundly slapped,
her mother refusing to believe that she had come honestly by so much
money; as my hostess observed, the good woman might at least have waited
for corroboration of the child's statement. A box of chocolate,
transmitted by a third hand, I have no doubt acted as a consolation.

Dear kind mademoiselle Jenny M---- How warmly she welcomed me
to her homely hearth!

My little purple rosette, insignia of an officer of Public Instruction
of France, proved a bond of union. This excellent woman was the daughter
of a schoolmaster who had himself worn the academic ribbon, a French
schoolmaster's crowning ambition. He had left his daughter, in
comfortable circumstances, that is to say, she enjoyed an annuity of £40
a year, the possession of a large, roomy house, part of which she let, and
half an acre of garden full as it could be of flowers, fruit and
vegetables. We at once became excellent friends.

"Now," she said, "I am very sorry that my best bedroom is given up to
soldiers, two poor young fellows I took in the other night out of compassion.
You can, however, have the little back room looking on to the garden,
it is rather in disorder, but you will find the bed comfortable. I cannot
offer to do much for you in the way of waiting, having a lame foot, but
a woman brings me milk early in the morning and she shall put a cupful
outside your door; bread and butter you will find in the little
kitchen next to your room."

I assured her that such an arrangement would suit me very well,
as I had my own spirit lamp and could make tea for myself; then we went
downstairs. The great difficulty that night was to get anything to
eat.
The soldiers had eaten every body out of house and home, she assured
me there was not such a thing as a chop or an egg to be had in the town
for love or money. Fortunately, I had the remains of a cold chicken
in my lunch basket, and this did duty for supper, my hostess pressing
upon me some excellent Bordeaux.

As we chatted, she mentioned the fact that two or three friends, much in
the same situation as herself, occupied the little houses running
alongside her garden.

"We are all old maids," she informed me.

"Old maids," quoth I, "how is that?

I thought there were no single women out of convents in France."
"The thing," she said, "has come about in this way--we have all enough
to live upon, and so many women worsen their condition by marriage,
instead of bettering it, that we made up our minds to live comfortably on
what we have got, and not trouble our heads about the men. We live very
happily together, and are all socialists, radicals, _libres penseuses_ and
the rest. We read a great deal, and, as you will see to-morrow, my father
left me a good library."
As we sat at table in the somewhat untidy kitchen, my fellow guests, the
conscripts, came in, they were pleasant, civil young fellows belonging
to different classes of life. One was a middle-class civilian
from an industrial city of the north, the other a homely peasant, son
of the soil.

These conscripts, however poorly fed in barracks, fare like aldermen
during these manoeuvres, everybody giving them to eat and drink of
their best.

They had just dined plentifully, but for all that, managed to get down
a bumper of wine immediately offered by Mademoiselle Jenny; a hunk of
Dijon gingerbread they did evidently find some difficulty in getting
through. We toasted each other in friendliest fashion, and the civilian,
out of compliment to myself, drank to the health of the English
army.

Next morning I fared no less sumptuously than a soldier during the manoeuvres.
A savoury steam had announced game for our mid-day meal.

"Now," said my hostess, as she dished up and began to carve a fat partridge
cooked to a turn--"this bird that came so àpropos, is a present from a
great-nephew of Danton. He is the _juge de paix_ here and a good neighbour
of mine. We will pay him a visit this afternoon."
Of this gentleman, of Danton's home and family, I shall say something
later on.

We made a round of visits that day, but the _juge de paix_, who seemed
to share the tastes of his great ancestor, was in the country in
search of more partridges. Other friends and acquaintances we found
at home; among these was a retired confectioner, who had once kept a
shop in Regent Street, and had told Mademoiselle Jenny that she would
be delighted to talk English with me.

Warmly welcomed I was by the portly, prosperous looking pastry-cook,
who was reading a newspaper and smoking a cigarette in a well-furnished,
comfortable parlour.

But alas! thirty years had elapsed since his departure from England,
and during the interval he had never once interchanged a word with any
of my country-people. To his intense mortification, he had completely
lost hold of the English tongue!
Another acquaintance, an elderly woman, who seemed to be living on
small independent means, had a curious house pet. This, once
a pretty little frisking lamb, had now reached the proportions of a big
fat sheep. So docile and affectionate, however, was the animal, and so
attached had the good soul become to it, that a pet it seemed likely to
remain to the end of its days; the creature followed its mistress
about like a dog.

The little town of Arcis-sur-Aube, like many another, is now deserted by
all who can get to livelier and more bustling centres. Tanneries, vest,
stocking and glove weaving and stitching, are the only resources of the
place.

During my stay, I made the acquaintance of a charming family engaged
in the latter trade. Stopping one day in front of a weaver's open door
to watch him at work, I was cordially invited to enter.

The head of the house, one of those quiet, intelligent, dignified artisans
so typical of his class in France, was weaving vest sleeves at a hand loom,
just as I had seen, at St.

Étienne, ribbon weavers pursuing their avocations at home. As we chatted
about his handicraft and its modest emoluments, his little son came in
from school, a bright lad who, to his father's delight, had lately
gained prizes. It is curious that only one part of a vest, stocking or
glove is done by a single hand; some goods I found came to this house
to be finished and others were sent away to be made ready for sale
elsewhere.

By-and-by, a pretty, refined girl, the daughter of the house, came in
and asked me if I would like to see what she was doing.

Forthwith she took me to a neat, cheerful little room upstairs overlooking
a garden.

On a table by the open window was a hand-sewing machine, and her
occupation was the ornamental stitching of silk and cotton gloves by
machinery. The pay seemed excessively low I thought, I believe something
like twopence per dozen pair, but the young machinist seemed perfectly
contented and happy.

"It is pleasant," she said, "to be able to earn something at home and
to live with papa and mamma and my little brother."
Before leaving, with the prettiest grace in the world, she begged my
acceptance of a dainty pair of lavender silk gloves knitted by her
own hands.

Some day I hope to revisit Arcis-sur-Aube, and meantime I hold occasional
intercourse by post with my friends in Danton's town.

CHAPTER XIV.

ARCIS-SUR-AUBE--(_continued_).

But by far the most interesting acquaintance at this most historic little
town was the great-nephew of Danton. Middle-aged, unpretentious of
aspect, yet with that unmistakable look partly of dignified self-possession,
partly of authority, seldom absent from the French official, I looked in
vain for any likeness to the portraits of his great kinsman. Yet perhaps
in the stalwart figure, manly proportions and bronzed complexion, might
be traced some suggestion of the athlete, the strong swimmer, the bold
sportsman, whose mighty voice once made Europe tremble. The brother
of this gentleman also lived at Arcis-sur-Aube, but was absent
during my visit. The _juge de paix_ and his family were on friendliest
terms with my hostess, and he would often drop in for a chat.
From him and other residents I gathered some interesting particulars
about the Danton family. The great tribune left two little sons,
George and Antoine, who grew up and resided in their ancestral home,
hiding themselves from the world. Their young step-mother it was
whose memory, when on the way to the guillotine, evoked from Danton
the only betrayal of personal emotion throughout his stormy career:
"Must I leave thee for ever, my beloved," then, quickly recovering
himself, cried "Danton, no weakness!"
Madame Danton married again and is lost sight of. One of Danton's
sisters entered a convent, as it was supposed hoping to expiate by
a life given up to prayer the crimes, as she deemed them, of her
brother.
Meantime, appalled by the shadow of their father's memory, George
and Antoine decided to remain celibate, a pair marked out for
solitude and obloquy.
"Let the name of Danton perish from the recollection of man," they
said.
The elder, however, afterwards acknowledged and, I believe, legitimised
a daughter according to the merciful French law. Mademoiselle Danton
became Madame Menuel, and, strange as it may seem, at the time of
my visit, this direct descendant of Danton was still living. President
Carnot had given her a small pension in the form of a _bureau de
tabac_ at Troyes, where she died in 1896, leaving a son, who some
years ago was divorced from his wife, emigrated to Buenos Ayres,
and has never been heard of since. It is supposed that he is dead.
The two great-nephews have each a son and a daughter living.
The _juge de paix_ and his brother are now among the most respected
citizens of Arcis, and have lived to witness the rehabilitation of
their great ancestor. Neither of the pair inhabit the house in which
Danton was born, and to which he ever returned with joy and
satisfaction.
A sight of Danton's house is sufficient to disprove the calumnies
of that noble woman, but inveterate hater, Madame Roland.
From her memoirs we might gather that Danton was a poverty-stricken,
pettifogging lawyer of the basest class."The Duc d'Orleans had never been known to reveal any secret of state,
being unspeakably circumspect, and having been trained to keep every
confidence inviolable by his preceptor Dubois, so I felt quite certain
that even the princess would fail in her efforts to get a sight of the
memoranda in his possession relative to the birth and rank of the masked
prisoner; but what cannot love, and such an ardent love, induce a man to
do?

"To reward her goodness the regent gave the documents into her hands, and
she forwarded them to me next day, enclosed in a note written in cipher,
which, according to the laws of historical writing, I reproduce in its
entirety, vouching for its authenticity; for the princess always employed
a cipher when she used the language of gallantry, and this note told me
what treaty she had had to sign in order that she might obtain the
documents, and the duke the desire of his heart.  The details are not
admissible in serious history, but, borrowing the modest language of the
patriarchal time, I may say that if Jacob, before he obtained possession
of the best beloved of Laban's daughters, was obliged to pay the price
twice over, the regent drove a better bargain than the patriarch.  The
note and the memorandum were as follows:
"'2.  1.  17.  12.  9.  2.  20.  2.  1.  7.  14
20.  10.  3.  21.  1.  11.  14.  1.  15.  16.  12.
17.  14.  2.  1.  21.  11.  20.  17.  12.  9.  14.
9.  2.  8.  20.  5.  20.  2.  2.  17.  8.  1.  2.  20.
9.  21.  21.  1.  5.  12.  17.  15.  00.  14.  1.  15.
14. 12.  9.  21.  5.  12.  9.   21.  16.  20.  14.
8.  3.

"'NARRATIVE OF THE BIRTH AND EDUCATION OF THE UNFORTUNATE PRINCE WHO WAS
SEPARATED FROM THE WORLD BY CARDINALS RICHELIEU AND MAZARIN AND
IMPRISONED BY ORDER OF LOUIS XIV.

"'Drawn up by the Governor of this Prince on his deathbed.

"'The unfortunate prince whom I brought up and had in charge till almost
the end of my life was born on the 5th September 1638 at 8.30 o'clock in
the evening, while the king was at supper.  His brother, who is now on
the throne, was born at noon while the king was at dinner, but whereas
his birth was splendid and public, that of his brother was sad and
secret; for the king being informed by the midwife that the queen was
about to give birth to a second child, ordered the chancellor, the
midwife, the chief almoner, the queen's confessor, and myself to stay in
her room to be witnesses of whatever happened, and of his course of
action should a second child be born.

"'For a long time already it had been foretold to the king that his wife
would give birth to two sons, and some days before, certain shepherds had
arrived in Paris, saying they were divinely inspired, so that it was said
in Paris that if two dauphins were born it would be the greatest
misfortune which could happen to the State.  The Archbishop of Paris
summoned these soothsayers before him, and ordered them to be imprisoned
in Saint-Lazare, because the populace was becoming excited about them--a
circumstance which filled the king with care, as he foresaw much trouble
to his kingdom.  What had been predicted by the soothsayers happened,
whether they had really been warned by the constellations, or whether
Providence by whom His Majesty had been warned of the calamities which
might happen to France interposed.  The king had sent a messenger to the
cardinal to tell him of this prophecy, and the cardinal had replied that
the matter, must be considered, that the birth of two dauphins was not
impossible, and should such a case arrive, the second must be carefully
hidden away, lest in the future desiring to be king he should fight
against his brother in support of a new branch of the royal house, and
come at last to reign.

"'The king in his suspense felt very uncomfortable, and as the queen
began to utter cries we feared a second confinement.  We sent to inform
the king, who was almost overcome by the thought that he was about to
become the father of two dauphins.  He said to the Bishop of Meaux, whom
he had sent for to minister to the queen, "Do not quit my wife till she
is safe; I am in mortal terror."  Immediately after he summoned us all,
the Bishop of Meaux, the chancellor M. Honorat, Dame Peronete the
midwife, and myself, and said to us in presence of the queen, so that she
could hear, that we would answer to him with our heads if we made known
the birth of a second dauphin; that it was his will that the fact should
remain a state secret, to prevent the misfortunes which would else
happen, the Salic Law not having declared to whom the inheritance of the
kingdom should come in case two eldest sons were born to any of the
kings.

"'What had been foretold happened: the queen, while the king was at
supper, gave birth to a second dauphin, more dainty and more beautiful
than the first, but who wept and wailed unceasingly, as if he regretted
to take up that life in which he was afterwards to endure such suffering.
The chancellor drew up the report of this wonderful birth, without
parallel in our history; but His Majesty not being pleased with its form,
burned it in our presence, and the chancellor had to write and rewrite
till His Majesty was satisfied. The almoner remonstrated, saying it would
be impossible to hide the birth of a prince, but the king returned that
he had reasons of state for all he did.

"'Afterwards the king made us register our oath, the chancellor signing
it first, then the queen's confessor, and I last.  The oath was also
signed by the surgeon and midwife who attended on the. queen, and the
king attached this document to the report, taking both away with him, and
I never heard any more of either.  I remember that His Majesty consulted
with the chancellor as to the form of the oath, and that he spoke for a
long time in an undertone to the cardinal: after which the last-born
child was given into the charge of the midwife, and as they were always
afraid she would babble about his birth, she has told me that they often
threatened her with death should she ever mention it: we were also
forbidden to speak, even to each other, of the child whose birth we had
witnessed.

"'Not one of us has as yet violated his oath; for His Majesty dreaded
nothing so much as a civil war brought about by the two children born
together, and the cardinal, who afterwards got the care of the second
child into his hands, kept that fear alive.  The king also commanded us
to examine the unfortunate prince minutely; he had a wart above the left
elbow, a mole on the right side of his neck, and a tiny wart on his right
thigh; for His Majesty was determined, and rightly so, that in case of
the decease of the first-born, the royal infant whom he was entrusting to
our care should take his place; wherefore he required our signmanual to
the report of the birth, to which a small royal seal was attached in our
presence, and we all signed it after His Majesty, according as he
commanded.  As to the shepherds who had foretold the double birth, never
did I hear another word of them, but neither did I inquire.  The cardinal
who took the mysterious infant in charge probably got them out of the
country.

"'All through the infancy of the second prince Dame Peronete treated him
as if he were her own child, giving out that his father was a great
nobleman; for everyone saw by the care she lavished on him and the
expense she went to, that although unacknowledged he was the cherished
son of rich parents, and well cared for.

"'When the prince began to grow up, Cardinal Mazarin, who succeeded
Cardinal Richelieu in the charge of the prince's education, gave him into
my hands to bring up in a manner worthy of a king's son, but in secret.
Dame Peronete continued in his service till her death, and was very much
attached to him, and he still more to her.  The prince was instructed in
my house in Burgundy, with all the care due to the son and brother of a
king.

"'I had several conversations with the queen mother during the troubles
in France, and Her Majesty always seemed to fear that if the existence of
the prince should be discovered during the lifetime of his brother, the
young king, malcontents would make it a pretext for rebellion, because
many medical men hold that the last-born of twins is in reality the
elder, and if so, he was king by right, while many others have a
different opinion.

"'In spite of this dread, the queen could never bring herself to destroy
the written evidence of his birth, because in case of the death of the
young king she intended to have his twin-brother proclaimed.  She told me
often that the written proofs were in her strong box.

"'I gave the ill-starred prince such an education as I should have liked
to receive myself, and no acknowledged son of a king ever had a better.
The only thing for which I have to reproach myself is that, without
intending it, I caused him great unhappiness; for when he was nineteen
years old he had a burning desire to know who he was, and as he saw that
I was determined to be silent, growing more firm the more he tormented me
with questions, he made up his mind henceforward to disguise his
curiosity and to make me think that he believed himself a love-child of
my own.  He began to call me 'father,' although when we were alone I
often assured him that he was mistaken; but at length I gave up combating
this belief, which he perhaps only feigned to make me speak, and allowed
him to think he was my son, contradicting him no more; but while he
continued to dwell on this subject he was meantime making every effort to
find out who he really was.  Two years passed thus, when, through an
unfortunate piece of forgetfulness on my part, for which I greatly blame
myself, he became acquainted with the truth.  He knew that the king had
lately sent me several messengers, and once having carelessly forgotten
to lock up a casket containing letters from the queen and the cardinals,
he read part and divined the rest through his natural intelligence; and
later confessed to me that he had carried off the letter which told most
explicitly of his birth.

"'I can recall that from this time on, his manner to me showed no longer
that respect for me in which I had brought him up, but became hectoring
and rude, and that I could not imagine the reason of the change, for I
never found out that he had searched my papers, and he never revealed to
me how he got at the casket, whether he was aided by some workmen whom he
did not wish to betray, or had employed other means,

"'One day, however, he unguardedly asked me to show him the portraits of
the late and the present king.  I answered that those that existed were
so poor that I was waiting till better ones were taken before having them
in my house.

"'This answer, which did not satisfy him, called forth the request to be
allowed to go to Dijon.  I found out afterwards that he wanted to see a
portrait of the king which was there, and to get to the court, which was
just then at Saint-Jean-de-Luz, because of the approaching marriage with
the infanta; so that he might compare himself with his brother and see if
there were any resemblance between them.  Having knowledge of his plan, I
never let him out of my sight.

"'The young prince was at this time as beautiful as Cupid, and through
the intervention of Cupid himself he succeeded in getting hold of a
portrait of his brother.  One of the upper servants of the house, a young
girl, had taken his fancy, and he lavished such caresses on her and
inspired her with so much love, that although the whole household was
strictly forbidden to give him anything without my permission, she
procured him a portrait of the king.  The unhappy prince saw the likeness
at once, indeed no one could help seeing it, for the one portrait would
serve equally well for either brother, and the sight produced such a fit
of fury that he came to me crying out, "There is my brother, and this
tells me who I am!"  holding out a letter from Cardinal Mazarin which he
had stolen from me, and making a great commotion in my house.

"'The dread lest the prince should escape and succeed in appearing at the
marriage of his brother made me so uneasy, that I sent off a messenger to
the king to tell him that my casket had been opened, and asking for
instructions.  The king sent back word through the cardinal that we were
both to be shut up till further orders, and that the prince was to be
made to understand that the cause of our common misfortune was his absurd
claim.  I have since shared his prison, but I believe that a decree of
release has arrived from my heavenly judge, and for my soul's health and
for my ward's sake I make this declaration, that he may know what
measures to take in order to put an end to his ignominious estate should
the king die without children.  Can any oath imposed under threats oblige
one to be silent about such incredible events, which it is nevertheless
necessary that posterity should know?'"

Such were the contents of the historical document given by the regent to
the princess, and it suggests a crowd of questions.  Who was the prince's
governor?  Was he a Burgundian?  Was he simply a landed proprietor, with
some property and a country house in Burgundy?  How far was his estate
from Dijon?  He must have been a man of note, for he enjoyed the most
intimate confidence at the court of Louis XIII, either by virtue of his
office or because he was a favourite of the king, the queen, and Cardinal
Richelieu.  Can we learn from the list of the nobles of Burgundy what
member of their body disappeared from public life along with a young ward
whom he had brought up in his own house just after the marriage of Louis
XIV?  Why did he not attach his signature to the declaration, which
appears to be a hundred years old?  Did he dictate it when so near death
that he had not strength to sign it?  How did it find its way out of
prison?  And so forth.

There is no answer to all these questions, and I, for my part, cannot
undertake to affirm that the document is genuine.  Abbe Soulavie relates
that he one day "pressed the marshal for an answer to some questions on
the matter, asking, amongst other things, if it were not true that the
prisoner was an elder brother of Louis XIV born without the knowledge of
Louis XIII.  The marshal appeared very much embarrassed, and although he
did not entirely refuse to answer, what he said was not very explanatory.
He averred that this important personage was neither the illegitimate
brother of Louis XIV, nor the Duke of Monmouth, nor the Comte de
Vermandois, nor the Duc de Beaufort, and so on, as so many writers had
asserted."  He called all their writings mere inventions, but added that
almost every one of them had got hold of some true incidents, as for
instance the order to kill the prisoner should he make himself known.
Finally he acknowledged that he knew the state secret, and used the
following words: "All that I can tell you, abbe, is, that when the
prisoner died at the beginning of the century, at a very advanced age, he
had ceased to be of such importance as when, at the beginning of his
reign, Louis XIV shut him up for weighty reasons of state."

The above was written down under the eyes of the marshal, and when Abbe
Soulavie entreated him to say something further which, while not actually
revealing the secret, would yet satisfy his questioner's curiosity, the
marshal answered, "Read M. de Voltaire's latest writings on the subject,
especially his concluding words, and reflect on them."

With the exception of Dulaure, all the critics have treated Soulavie's
narrative with the most profound contempt, and we must confess that if it
was an invention it was a monstrous one, and that the concoction of the
famous note in cipher was abominable.  "Such was the great secret; in
order to find it out, I had to allow myself 5, 12, 17, 15, 14, 1, three
times by 8, 3."  But unfortunately for those who would defend the morals
of Mademoiselle de Valois, it would be difficult to traduce the character
of herself, her lover, and her father, for what one knows of the trio
justifies one in believing that the more infamous the conduct imputed to
them, the more likely it is to be true.  We cannot see the force of the
objection that Louvois would not have written in the following terms to
Saint-Mars in 1687 about a bastard son of Anne of Austria: "I see no
objection to your removing Chevalier de Thezut from the prison in which
he is confined, and putting your prisoner there till the one you are
preparing for him is ready to receive him."  And we cannot understand
those who ask if Saint-Mars, following the example of the minister, would
have said of a prince "Until he is installed in the prison which is being
prepared for him here, which has a chapel adjoining"? Why should he have
expressed himself otherwise?  Does it evidence an abatement of
consideration to call a prisoner a prisoner, and his prison a prison?

A certain M. de Saint-Mihiel published an 8vo volume in 1791, at
Strasbourg and Paris, entitled 'Le veritable homme, dit au MASQUE DE FER,
ouvrage dans lequel on fait connaitre, sur preuves incontestables, a qui
le celebre infortune dut le jour, quand et ou il naquit'.  The wording of
the title will give an idea of the bizarre and barbarous jargon in which
the whole book is written.  It would be difficult to imagine the vanity
and self-satisfaction which inspire this new reader of riddles.  If he
had found the philosopher's stone, or made a discovery which would
transform the world, he could not exhibit more pride and pleasure.  All
things considered, the "incontestable proofs" of his theory do not decide
the question definitely, or place it above all attempts at refutation,
any more than does the evidence on which the other theories which
preceded and followed his rest.  But what he lacks before all other
things is the talent for arranging and using his materials.  With the
most ordinary skill he might have evolved a theory which would have
defied criticism at least as successfully, as the others, and he might
have supported it by proofs, which if not incontestable (for no one has
produced such), had at least moral presumption in their favour, which has
great weight in such a mysterious and obscure affair, in trying to
explain, which one can never leave on one side, the respect shown by
Louvois to the prisoner, to whom he always spoke standing and with
uncovered head.

According to M. de Saint-Mihiel, the 'Man in the Iron Mask was a
legitimate son of Anne of Austria and Mazarin'.

He avers that Mazarin was only a deacon, and not a priest, when he became
cardinal, having never taken priest's orders, according to the testimony
of the Princess Palatine, consort of Philip I, Duc d'Orleans, and that it
was therefore possible for him to marry, and that he did marry, Anne of
Austria in secret.

"Old Madame Beauvais, principal woman of the bed-chamber to the queen
mother, knew of this ridiculous marriage, and as the price of her secrecy
obliged the queen to comply with all her whims.  To this circumstance the
principal bed-chamber women owe the extensive privileges accorded them
ever since in this country" (Letter of the Duchesse d'Orleans, 13th
September 1713).

"The queen mother, consort of Louis XIII, had done worse than simply to
fall in love with Mazarin, she had married him, for he had never been an
ordained priest, he had only taken deacon's orders.  If he had been a
priest his marriage would have been impossible.  He grew terribly tired
of the good queen mother, and did not live happily with her, which was
only what he deserved for making such a marriage" (Letter of the Duchesse
d'Orleans, 2nd November 1717).

"She (the queen mother) was quite easy in her conscience about Cardinal
Mazarin; he was not in priest's orders, and so could marry. The secret
passage by which he reached the queen's rooms every evening still exists
in the Palais Royal" (Letter of the Duchesse d'Orleans, 2nd July 1719)

"The queen's, manner of conducting affairs is influenced by the passion
which dominates her.  When she and the cardinal converse together, their
ardent love for each other is betrayed by their looks and gestures; it is
plain to see that when obliged to part for a time they do it with great
reluctance.  If what people say is true, that they are properly married,
and that their union has been blessed by Pere Vincent the missioner,
there is no harm in all that goes on between them, either in public or in
private" ('Requete civile contre la Conclusion de la Paix, 1649).

The Man in the Iron Mask told the apothecary in the Bastille that he
thought he was about sixty years of age ('Questions sur d'Encyclopedie').
Thus he must have been born in 1644, just at the time when Anne of
Austria was invested with the royal power, though it was really exercised
by Mazarin.

Can we find any incident recorded in history which lends support to the
supposition that Anne of Austria had a son whose birth was kept as secret
as her marriage to Mazarin?

"In 1644, Anne of Austria being dissatisfied with her apartments in the
Louvre, moved to the Palais Royal, which had been left to the king by
Richelieu.  Shortly after taking up residence there she was very ill with
a severe attack of jaundice, which was caused, in the opinion of the
doctors, by worry, anxiety, and overwork, and which pulled her down
greatly" ('Memoire de Madame de Motteville, 4 vols. 12mo, Vol i.  p.
194).

"This anxiety, caused by the pressure of public business, was most
probably only dwelt on as a pretext for a pretended attack of illness.
Anne of Austria had no cause for worry and anxiety till 1649.  She did
not begin to complain of the despotism of Mazarin till towards the end of
1645" (Ibid., viol. i.  pp. 272, 273).

"She went frequently to the theatre during her first year of widowhood,
but took care to hide herself from view in her box." (Ibid., vol. i.  p.
342).

Abbe Soulavie, in vol. vi. of the 'Memoires de Richelieu', published in
1793, controverted the opinions of M. de Saint-Mihiel, and again advanced
those which he had published some time before, supporting them by a new
array of reasons.

The fruitlessness of research in the archives of the Bastille, and the
importance of the political events which were happening, diverted the
attention of the public for some years from this subject.  In the year
1800, however, the 'Magazin encyclopedique' published (vol. vi. p. 472)
an article entitled 'Memoires sur les Problemes historiques, et la
methode de les resoudre appliquee a celui qui concerne l'Homme au Masque
de Fer', signed C. D. O., in which the author maintained that the
prisoner was the first minister of the Duke of Mantua, and says his name
was Girolamo Magni.

In the same year an octavo volume of 142 pages was produced by M.
Roux-Fazillac.  It bore the title 'Recherches historiques et critiques
sur l'Homme au Masque de Fer, d'ou resultent des Notions certaines sur ce
prisonnier'.  These researches brought to light a secret correspondence
relative to certain negotiations and intrigues, and to the abduction of a
secretary of the Duke of Mantua whose name was Matthioli, and not
Girolamo Magni.

In 1802 an octavo pamphlet containing 11 pages, of which the author was
perhaps Baron Lerviere, but which was signed Reth, was published. It took
the form of a letter to General Jourdan, and was dated from Turin, and
gave many details about Matthioli and his family.  It was entitled
'Veritable Clef de l'Histoire de l'Homme au Masque de Fer'. It proved
that the secretary of the Duke of Mantua was carried off, masked, and
imprisoned, by order of Louis XIV in 1679, but it did not succeed in
establishing as an undoubted fact that the secretary and the Man in the
Iron Mask were one and the same person.

It may be remembered that M. Crawfurd writing in 1798 had said in his
'Histoire de la Bastille' (8vo, 474 pages), "I cannot doubt that the Man
in the Iron Mask was the son of Anne of Austria, but am unable to decide
whether he was a twin-brother of Louis XIV or was born while the king and
queen lived apart, or during her widowhood."  M. Crawfurd, in his
'Melanges d'Histoire et de Litterature tires dun Portefeuille' (quarto
1809, octavo 1817), demolished the theory advanced by Roux-Fazillac.

In 1825, M. Delort discovered in the archives several letters relating to
Matthioli, and published his Histoire de l'Homme au Masque de Fer (8vo).
This work was translated into English by George Agar-Ellis, and
retranslated into French in 1830, under the title 'Histoire authentique
du Prisonnier d'Etat, connu sons le Nom de Masque de Fer'.  It is in this
work that the suggestion is made that the captive was the second son of
Oliver Cromwell.

In 1826, M. de Taules wrote that, in his opinion, the masked prisoner was
none other than the Armenian Patriarch.  But six years later the great
success of my drama at the Odeon converted nearly everyone to the version
of which Soulavie was the chief exponent.  The bibliophile Jacob is
mistaken in asserting that I followed a tradition preserved in the family
of the Duc de Choiseul; M. le Duc de Bassano sent me a copy made under
his personal supervision of a document drawn up for Napoleon, containing
the results of some researches made by his orders on the subject of the
Man in the Iron Mask.  The original MS., as well as that of the Memoires
du Duc de Richelieu, were, the duke told me, kept at the Foreign Office.
In 1834 the journal of the Institut historique published a letter from M.
Auguste Billiard, who stated that he had also made a copy of this
document for the late Comte de Montalivet, Home Secretary under the
Empire.

M. Dufey (de l'Yonne) gave his 'Histoire de la Bastille' to the world in
the same year, and was inclined to believe that the prisoner was a son of
Buckingham.

Besides the many important personages on whom the famous mask had been
placed, there was one whom everyone had forgotten, although his name had
been put forward by the minister Chamillart: this was the celebrated
Superintendent of Finance, Nicolas Fouquet.  In 1837, Jacob, armed with
documents and extracts, once more occupied himself with this Chinese
puzzle on which so much ingenuity had been lavished, but of which no one
had as yet got all the pieces into their places.  Let us see if he
succeeded better than his forerunners.

The first feeling he awakes is one of surprise.  It seems odd that he
should again bring up the case of Fouquet, who was condemned to
imprisonment for life in 1664, confined in Pignerol under the care of
Saint-Mars, and whose death was announced (falsely according to Jacob) on
March 23rd, 1680.  The first thing to look for in trying to get at the
true history of the Mask is a sufficient reason of state to account for
the persistent concealment of the prisoner's features till his death; and
next, an explanation of the respect shown him by Louvois, whose attitude
towards him would have been extraordinary in any age, but was doubly so
during the reign of Louis XIV, whose courtiers would have been the last
persons in the world to render homage to the misfortunes of a man in
disgrace with their master. Whatever the real motive of the king's anger
against Fouquet may have been, whether Louis thought he arrogated to
himself too much power, or aspired to rival his master in the hearts of
some of the king's mistresses, or even presumed to raise his eyes higher
still, was not the utter ruin, the lifelong captivity, of his enemy
enough to satiate the vengeance of the king?  What could he desire more?
Why should his anger, which seemed slaked in 1664, burst forth into
hotter flames seventeen years later, and lead him to inflict a new
punishment?  According to the bibliophile, the king being wearied by the
continual petitions for pardon addressed to him by the superintendent's
family, ordered them to be told that he was dead, to rid himself of their
supplications.  Colbert's hatred, says he, was the immediate cause of
Fouquet's fall; but even if this hatred hastened the catastrophe, are we
to suppose that it pursued the delinquent beyond the sentence, through
the long years of captivity, and, renewing its energy, infected the minds
of the king and his councillors?  If that were so, how shall we explain
the respect shown by Louvois?  Colbert would not have stood uncovered
before Fouquet in prison.  Why should Colbert's colleague have done so?

It must, however, be confessed that of all existing theories, this one,
thanks to the unlimited learning and research of the bibliophile, has the
greatest number of documents with the various interpretations thereof,
the greatest profusion of dates, on its side.

For it is certain--

1st, that the precautions taken when Fouquet was sent to Pignerol
resembled in every respect those employed later by the custodians of the
Iron Mask, both at the Iles Sainte-Marguerite and at the Bastille;

2nd, that the majority of the traditions relative to the masked prisoner
might apply to Fouquet;

3rd, that the Iron Mask was first heard of immediately after the
announcement of the death of Fouquet in 1680;

4th, that there exists no irrefragable proof that Fouquet's death really
occurred in the above year.

The decree of the Court of justice, dated 20th December 1664, banished
Fouquet from the kingdom for life.  "But the king was of the opinion that
it would be dangerous to let the said Fouquet leave the country, in
consideration of his intimate knowledge of the most important matters of
state.  Consequently the sentence of perpetual banishment was commuted
into that of perpetual imprisonment." ('Receuil des defenses de M.
Fouquet').  The instructions signed by the king and remitted to
Saint-Mars forbid him to permit Fouquet to hold any spoken or written
communication with anyone whatsoever, or to leave his apartments for any
cause, not even for exercise.  The great mistrust felt by Louvois
pervades all his letters to Saint-Mars.  The precautions which he ordered
to be kept up were quite as stringent as in the case of the Iron Mask.

The report of the discovery of a shirt covered with writing, by a friar,
which Abbe Papon mentions, may perhaps be traced to the following
extracts from two letters written by Louvois to Saint-Mars: "Your letter
has come to hand with the new handkerchief on which M. Fouquet has
written" (18th Dec. 1665 ); "You can tell him that if he continues too
employ his table-linen as note-paper he must not be surprised if you
refuse to supply him with any more" ( 21st Nov. 1667).

Pere Papon asserts that a valet who served the masked prisoner died in
his master's room.  Now the man who waited on Fouquet, and who like him
was sentenced to lifelong imprisonment, died in February 1680 (see letter
of Louvois to Saint-Mars, 12th March 1680).  Echoes of incidents which
took place at Pignerol might have reached the Iles Sainte-Marguerite when
Saint-Mars transferred his "former prisoner" from one fortress to the
other.  The fine clothes and linen, the books, all those luxuries in fact
that were lavished on the masked prisoner, were not withheld from
Fouquet.  The furniture of a second room at Pignerol cost over 1200
livres (see letters of Louvois, 12th Dec. 1665, and 22nd Feb, 1666).

It is also known that until the year 1680 Saint-Mars had only two
important prisoners at Pignerol, Fouquet and Lauzun.  However, his
"former prisoner of Pignerol," according to Du Junca's diary, must have
reached the latter fortress before the end of August 1681, when
Saint-Mars went to Exilles as governor.  So that it was in the interval
between the 23rd March 1680, the alleged date of Fouquet's death, and the
1st September 1681, that the Iron Mask appeared at Pignerol, and yet
Saint-Mars took only two prisoners to Exilles.  One of these was probably
the Man in the Iron Mask; the other, who must have been Matthioli, died
before the year 1687, for when Saint-Mars took over the governorship in
the month of January of that year of the Iles Sainte-Marguerite he
brought only ONE prisoner thither with him.  "I have taken such good
measures to guard my prisoner that I can answer to you for his safety"
('Lettres de Saint-Mars a Louvois', 20th January 1687).

In the correspondence of Louvois with Saint-Mars we find, it is true,
mention of the death of Fouquet on March 23rd, 1680, but in his later
correspondence Louvois never says "the late M. Fouquet," but speaks of
him, as usual, as "M. Fouquet" simply.  Most historians have given as a
fact that Fouquet was interred in the same vault as his father in the
chapel of Saint-Francois de Sales in the convent church belonging to the
Sisters of the Order of the Visitation-Sainte-Marie, founded in the
beginning of the seventeenth century by Madame de Chantal.  But proof to
the contrary exists; for the subterranean portion of St. Francis's chapel
was closed in 1786, the last person interred there being Adelaide
Felicite Brulard, with whom ended the house of Sillery.  The convent was
shut up in 1790, and the church given over to the Protestants in 1802;
who continued to respect the tombs.  In 1836 the Cathedral chapter of
Bourges claimed the remains of one of their archbishops buried there in
the time of the Sisters of Sainte-Marie.  On this occasion all the
coffins were examined and all the inscriptions carefully copied, but the
name of Nicolas Fouquet is absent.

Voltaire says in his 'Dictionnaire philosophique', article "Ana," "It is
most remarkable that no one knows where the celebrated Fouquet was
buried."

But in spite of all these coincidences, this carefully constructed theory
was wrecked on the same point on which the theory that the prisoner was
either the Duke of Monmouth or the Comte de Vermandois came to grief,
viz.  a letter from Barbezieux, dated 13th August 1691, in which occur
the words, "THE PRISONER WHOM YOU HAVE HAD IN CHARGE FOR TWENTY YEARS."
According to this testimony, which Jacob had successfully used against
his predecessors, the prisoner referred to could not have been Fouquet,
who completed his twenty-seventh year of captivity in 1691, if still
alive.

We have now impartially set before our readers all the opinions which
have been held in regard to the solution of this formidable enigma. For
ourselves, we hold the belief that the Man in the Iron Mask stood on the
steps of the throne.  Although the mystery cannot be said to be
definitely cleared up, one thing stands out firmly established among the
mass of conjecture we have collected together, and that is, that wherever
the prisoner appeared he was ordered to wear a mask on pain of death.
His features, therefore, might during half a century have brought about
his recognition from one end of France to the other; consequently, during
the same space of time there existed in France a face resembling the
prisoner's known through all her provinces, even to her most secluded
isle.

Whose face could this be, if not that of Louis XVI, twin-brother of the
Man in the Iron Mask?

To nullify this simple and natural conclusion strong evidence will be
required.

Our task has been limited to that of an examining judge at a trial, and
we feel sure that our readers will not be sorry that we have left them to
choose amid all the conflicting explanations of the puzzle. No consistent
narrative that we might have concocted would, it seems to us, have been
half as interesting to them as to allow them to follow the devious paths
opened up by those who entered on the search for the heart of the
mystery.  Everything connected with the masked prisoner arouses the most
vivid curiosity.  And what end had we in view?  Was it not to denounce a
crime and to brand the perpetrator thereof?  The facts as they stand are
sufficient for our object, and speak more eloquently than if used to
adorn a tale or to prove an ingenious theory.


MARTIN GUERRE

We are sometimes astonished at the striking resemblance existing between
two persons who are absolute strangers to each other, but in fact it is
the opposite which ought to surprise us.  Indeed, why should we not
rather admire a Creative Power so infinite in its variety that it never
ceases to produce entirely different combinations with precisely the same
elements?  The more one considers this prodigious versatility of form,
the more overwhelming it appears.

To begin with, each nation has its own distinct and characteristic type,
separating it from other races of men.  Thus there are the English,
Spanish, German, or Slavonic types; again, in each nation we find
families distinguished from each other by less general but still
well-pronounced features; and lastly, the individuals of each family,
differing again in more or less marked gradations.  What a multitude of
physiognomies!  What variety of impression from the innumerable stamps of
the human countenance!  What millions of models and no copies!
Considering this ever changing spectacle, which ought to inspire us with
most astonishment--the perpetual difference of faces or the accidental
resemblance of a few individuals?  Is it impossible that in the whole
wide world there should be found by chance two people whose features are
cast in one and the same mould?  Certainly not; therefore that which
ought to surprise us is not that these duplicates exist here and there
upon the earth, but that they are to be met with in the same place, and
appear together before our eyes, little accustomed to see such
resemblances.  From Amphitryon down to our own days, many fables have
owed their origin to this fact, and history also has provided a few
examples, such as the false Demetrius in Russia, the English Perkin
Warbeck, and several other celebrated impostors, whilst the story we now
present to our readers is no less curious and strange.

On the 10th of, August 1557, an inauspicious day in the history of
France, the roar of cannon was still heard at six in the evening in the
plains of St. Quentin; where the French army had just been destroyed by
the united troops of England and Spain, commanded by the famous Captain
Emanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy.  An utterly beaten infantry, the
Constable Montmorency and several generals taken prisoner, the Duke
d'Enghien mortally wounded, the flower of the nobility cut down like
grass,--such were the terrible results of a battle which plunged France
into mourning, and which would have been a blot on the reign of Henry II,
had not the Duke of Guise obtained a brilliant revenge the following
year.

In a little village less than a mile from the field of battle were to be
heard the groans of the wounded and dying, who had been carried thither
from the field of battle.  The inhabitants had given up their houses to
be used as hospitals, and two or three barber surgeons went hither and
thither, hastily ordering operations which they left to their assistants,
and driving out fugitives who had contrived to accompany the wounded
under pretence of assisting friends or near relations.  They had already
expelled a good number of these poor fellows, when, opening the door of a
small room, they found a soldier soaked in blood lying on a rough mat,
and another soldier apparently attending on him with the utmost care.

"Who are you?" said one of the surgeons to the sufferer.  "I don't think
you belong to our French troops."

"Help!" cried the soldier, "only help me! and may God bless you for it!"

"From the colour of that tunic," remarked the other surgeon, "I should
wager the rascal belongs to some Spanish gentleman.  By what blunder was
he brought here?"

"For pity's sake!" murmured the poor fellow, "I am in such pain."

"Die, wretch!" responded the last speaker, pushing him with his foot.
"Die, like the dog you are!"

But this brutality, answered as it was by an agonised groan, disgusted
the other surgeon.

Dancing also goes on in summer as in the olden time. It was curious as we
drove along to note the behaviour of my friend's dog: it never for
a moment closed its eyes, and yet there was nothing to look at but
avenue after avenue of trees.

What could the little animal find so fascinating in the somewhat monotonous
sight? A friend at home assures me that a pet of her own enjoyed
drives from purely snobbish motives; his great gratification arising
from the sense of superiority over fellow dogs compelled to trudge
on foot.

But in these woodland solitudes there was no room for such a sentiment,
not a dog being visible, only now and then a cyclist flashing by.

There is no more splendid cycling ground in the world than this
forest of Fontainebleau.

Both were above middle
height; both had olive-brown complexions, black eyes, hooked noses,
pointed chins, a slightly projecting lower lip; both were
round-shouldered, though this defect did not amount to disfigurement: the
whole personality suggested strength, and was not destitute of masculine
beauty.  So strong a likeness is hardly ever seen; even their ages
appeared to agree, for one would not have supposed either to be more than
thirty-two; and the only difference noticeable, besides the pale
countenance of the wounded man, was that he was thin as compared with the
moderate fleshiness of the other, also that he had a large scar over the
right eyebrow.

"Look well after your brother's soul," said the surgeon to the soldier,
who remained standing; "if it is in no better case than his body, it is
much to be pitied."

"Is there no hope?" inquired the Sosia of the wounded man.

"The wound is too large and too deep," replied the man of science, "to be
cauterised with boiling oil, according to the ancient method. 'Delenda
est causa mali,' the source of evil must be destroyed, as says the
learned Ambrose Pare; I ought therefore 'secareferro,'--that is to say,
take off the leg.  May God grant that he survive the operation!"

While seeking his instruments, he looked the supposed brother full in the
face, and added--

"But how is it that you are carrying muskets in opposing armies, for I
see that you belong to us, while this poor fellow wears Spanish uniform?"

"Oh, that would be a long story to tell," replied the soldier, shaking
his head.  "As for me, I followed the career which was open to me, and
took service of my own free will under the banner of our lord king, Henry
II.  This man, whom you rightly suppose to be my brother, was born in
Biscay, and became attached to the household of the Cardinal of Burgos,
and afterwards to the cardinal's brother, whom he was obliged to follow
to the war.  I recognised him on the battle-field just as he fell; I
dragged him out of a heap of dead, and brought him here."

During his recital this individual's features betrayed considerable
agitation, but the surgeon did not heed it.  Not finding some necessary
instruments, "My colleague," he exclaimed, "must have carried them off.
He constantly does this, out of jealousy of my reputation; but I will be
even with him yet!  Such splendid instruments!  They will almost work of
themselves, and are capable of imparting some skill even to him, dunce as
he is!...  I shall be back in an hour or two; he must rest, sleep, have
nothing to excite him, nothing to inflame the wound; and when the
operation is well over, we shall see!  May the Lord be gracious to him!"

Then he went to the door, leaving the poor wretch to the care of his
supposed brother.

"My God!" he added, shaking his head, "if he survive, it will be by the
help of a miracle."

Scarcely had he left the room, when the unwounded soldier carefully
examined the features of the wounded one.

"Yes," he murmured between his teeth, "they were right in saying that my
exact double was to be found in the hostile army .  .  .  .  Truly one
would not know us apart!  .  .  .  I might be surveying myself in a
mirror.  I did well to look for him in the rear of the Spanish army, and,
thanks to the fellow who rolled him over so conveniently with that
arquebus-shot; I was able to escape the dangers of the melee by carrying
him out of it."

"But that's not all," he thought, still carefully studying the tortured
face of the unhappy sufferer; "it is not enough to have got out of that.
I have absolutely nothing in the world, no home, no resources.  Beggar by
birth, adventurer by fortune, I have enlisted, and have consumed my pay;
I hoped for plunder, and here we are in full flight!  What am I to do?
Go and drown myself?  No, certainly a cannon-ball would be as good as
that.  But can't I profit by this chance, and obtain a decent position by
turning to my own advantage this curious resemblance, and making some use
of this man whom Fate has thrown in my way, and who has but a short time
to live?"

Arguing thus, he bent over the prostrate man with a cynical laugh: one
might have thought he was Satan watching the departure of a soul too
utterly lost to escape him.

"Alas! alas!" cried the sufferer; "may God have mercy on me!  I feel my
end is near."

"Bah! comrade, drive away these dismal thoughts.  Your leg pains
you--well they will cut it off!  Think only of the other one, and trust
in Providence!"

"Water, a drop of water, for Heaven's sake!" The sufferer was in a high
fever.  The would-be nurse looked round and saw a jug of water, towards
which the dying man extended a trembling hand.  A truly infernal idea
entered his mind.  He poured some water into a gourd which hung from his
belt, held it to the lips of the wounded man, and then withdrew it.

"Oh!  I thirst-that water!  .  .  .  For pity's sake, give me some!"

"Yes, but on one condition you must tell me your whole history."

"Yes .  .  .  but give me water!"

His tormentor allowed him to swallow a mouthful, then overwhelmed him
with questions as to his family, his friends and fortune, and compelled
him to answer by keeping before his eyes the water which alone could
relieve the fever which devoured him.  After this often interrupted
interrogation, the sufferer sank back exhausted, and almost insensible.
But, not yet satisfied, his companion conceived the idea of reviving him
with a few drops of brandy, which quickly brought back the fever, and
excited his brain sufficiently to enable him to answer fresh questions.
The doses of spirit were doubled several times, at the risk of ending the
unhappy man's days then and there: Almost delirious, his head feeling as
if on fire, his sufferings gave way to a feverish excitement, which took
him back to other places and other times: he began to recall the days of
his youth and the country where he lived.  But his tongue was still
fettered by a kind of reserve: his secret thoughts, the private details
of his past life were not yet told, and it seemed as though he might die
at any moment.  Time was passing, night already coming on, and it
occurred to the merciless questioner to profit by the gathering darkness.
By a few solemn words he aroused the religious feelings of the sufferer,
terrified him by speaking of the punishments of another life and the
flames of hell, until to the delirious fancy of the sick man he took the
form of a judge who could either deliver him to eternal damnation or open
the gates of heaven to him.  At length, overwhelmed by a voice which
resounded in his ear like that of a minister of God, the dying man laid
bare his inmost soul before his tormentor, and made his last confession
to him.

Yet a few moments, and the executioner--he deserves no other name--hangs
over his victim, opens his tunic, seizes some papers and a few coins,
half draws his dagger, but thinks better of it; then, contemptuously
spurning the victim, as the other surgeon had done--

"I might kill you," he says, "but it would be a useless murder; it would
only be hastening your last Sigh by an hour or two, and advancing my
claims to your inheritance by the same space of time."

And he adds mockingly:--

"Farewell, my brother!"

The wounded soldier utters a feeble groan; the adventurer leaves the
room.

Four months later, a woman sat at the door of a house at one end of the
village of Artigues, near Rieux, and played with a child about nine or
ten years of age.  Still young, she had the brown complexion of Southern
women, and her beautiful black hair fell in curls about her face.  Her
flashing eyes occasionally betrayed hidden passions, concealed, however,
beneath an apparent indifference and lassitude, and her wasted form
seemed to acknowledge the existence of some secret grief.  An observer
would have divined a shattered life, a withered happiness, a soul
grievously wounded.

Her dress was that of a wealthy peasant; and she wore one of the long
gowns with hanging sleeves which were in fashion in the sixteenth
century.  The house in front of which she sat belonged to her, so also
the immense field which adjoined the garden.  Her attention was divided
between the play of her son and the orders she was giving to an old
servant, when an exclamation from the child startled her.

"Mother!" he cried, "mother, there he is!"

She looked where the child pointed, and saw a young boy turning the
corner of the street.

"Yes," continued the child, "that is the lad who, when I was playing with
the other boys yesterday, called me all sorts of bad names."

"What sort of names, my child?"

"There was one I did not understand, but it must have been a very bad
one, for the other boys all pointed at me, and left me alone.  He called
me--and he said it was only what his mother had told him--he called me a
wicked bastard!"

His mother's face became purple with indignation.  "What!" she cried,
"they dared!  .  .  .  What an insult!"

"What does this bad word mean, mother?" asked the child, half frightened
by her anger.  "Is that what they call poor children who have no father?"

His mother folded him in her arms.  "Oh!" she continued, "it is an
infamous slander!  These people never saw your father, they have only
been here six years, and this is the eighth since he went away, but this
is abominable!  We were married in that church, we came at once to live
in this house, which was my marriage portion, and my poor Martin has
relations and friends here who will not allow his wife to be insulted--"

"Say rather, his widow," interrupted a solemn voice.

"Ah! uncle!" exclaimed the woman, turning towards an old man who had just
emerged from the house.

"Yes, Bertrande," continued the new-comer, "you must get reconciled to
the idea that my nephew has ceased to exist.  I am sure he was not such a
fool as to have remained all this time without letting us hear from him.
He was not the fellow to go off at a tangent, on account of a domestic
quarrel which you have never vouchsafed to explain to me, and to retain
his anger during all these eight years!  Where did he go?  What did he
do?  We none of us know, neither you nor I, nor anybody else.  He is
assuredly dead, and lies in some graveyard far enough from here.  May God
have mercy on his soul!"

Bertrande, weeping, made the sign of the cross, and bowed her head upon
her hands.

"Good-bye, Sanxi," said the uncle, tapping the child's,' cheek. Sanxi
turned sulkily away.

There was certainly nothing specially attractive about the uncle: he
belonged to a type which children instinctively dislike, false, crafty,
with squinting eyes which continually appeared to contradict his honeyed
tongue.

"Bertrande," he said, "your boy is like his father before him, and only
answers my kindness with rudeness."

"Forgive him," answered the mother; "he is very young, and does not
understand the respect due to his father's uncle.  I will teach him
better things; he will soon learn that he ought to be grateful for the
care you have taken of his little property."

"No doubt, no doubt," said the uncle, trying hard to smile.  "I will give
you a good account of it, for I shall only have to reckon with you two in
future.  Come, my dear, believe me, your husband is really dead, and you
have sorrowed quite enough for a good-for-nothing fellow.  Think no more
of him."

So saying, he departed, leaving the poor young woman a prey to the
saddest thoughts.

Bertrande de Rolls, naturally gifted with extreme sensibility, on which a
careful education had imposed due restraint, had barely completed her
twelfth year when she was married to Martin Guerre, a boy of about the
same age, such precocious unions being then not uncommon, especially in
the Southern provinces.  They were generally settled by considerations of
family interest, assisted by the extremely early development habitual to
the climate.  The young couple lived for a long time as brother and
sister, and Bertrande, thus early familiar with the idea of domestic
happiness, bestowed her whole affection on the youth whom she had been
taught to regard as her life's companion.  He was the Alpha and Omega of
her existence; all her love, all her thoughts, were given to him, and
when their marriage was at length completed, the birth of a son seemed
only another link in the already long existing bond of union.  But, as
many wise men have remarked, a uniform happiness, which only attaches
women more and more, has often upon men a precisely contrary effect, and
so it was with Martin Guerre.  Of a lively and excitable temperament, he
wearied of a yoke which had been imposed so early, and, anxious to see
the world and enjoy some freedom, he one day took advantage of a domestic
difference, in which Bertrande owned herself to have been wrong, and left
his house and family.  He was sought and awaited in vain.  Bertrande
spent the first month in vainly expecting his return, then she betook
herself to prayer; but Heaven appeared deaf to her supplications, the
truant returned not.  She wished to go in search of him, but the world is
wide, and no single trace remained to guide her.  What torture for a
tender heart!  What suffering for a soul thirsting for love!  What
sleepless nights!  What restless vigils!  Years passed thus; her son was
growing up, yet not a word reached her from the man she loved so much.
She spoke often of him to the uncomprehending child, she sought to
discover his features in those of her boy, but though she endeavoured to
concentrate her whole affection on her son, she realised that there is
suffering which maternal love cannot console, and tears which it cannot
dry. Consumed by the strength of the sorrow which ever dwelt in her
heart, the poor woman was slowly wasting, worn out by the regrets of the
past, the vain desires of the present, and the dreary prospect of the
future.  And now she had been openly insulted, her feelings as a mother
wounded to the quirk; and her husband's uncle, instead of defending and
consoling her, could give only cold counsel and unsympathetic words!

Pierre Guerre, indeed, was simply a thorough egotist.  In his youth he
had been charged with usury; no one knew by what means he had become
rich, for the little drapery trade which he called his profession did not
appear to be very profitable.

After his nephew's departure it seemed only natural that he should pose
as the family guardian, and he applied himself to the task of increasing
the little income, but without considering himself bound to give any
account to Bertrande.  So, once persuaded that Martin was no more, he was
apparently not unwilling to prolong a situation so much to his own
advantage.

Night was fast coming on; in the dim twilight distant objects became
confused and indistinct.  It was the end of autumn, that melancholy
season which suggests so many gloomy thoughts and recalls so many
blighted hopes.  The child had gone into the house.  Bertrande, still
sitting at the door, resting her forehead on her hand, thought sadly of
her uncle's words; recalling in imagination the past scenes which they
suggested, the time of their childhood, when, married so young, they were
as yet only playmates, prefacing the graver duties of life by innocent
pleasures; then of the love which grew with their increasing age; then of
how this love became altered, changing on her side into passion, on his
into indifference.  She tried to recollect him as he had been on the eve
of his departure, young and handsome, carrying his head high, coming home
from a fatiguing hunt and sitting by his son's cradle; and then also she
remembered bitterly the jealous suspicions she had conceived, the anger
with which she had allowed them to escape her, the consequent quarrel,
followed by the disappearance of her offended husband, and the eight
succeeding years of solitude and mourning.  She wept over his desertion;
over the desolation of her life, seeing around her only indifferent or
selfish people, and caring only to live for her child's sake, who gave
her at least a shadowy reflection of the husband she had lost.
"Lost--yes, lost for ever!" she said to herself, sighing, and looking
again at the fields whence she had so often seen him coming at this same
twilight hour, returning to his home for the evening meal.  She cast a
wandering eye on the distant hills, which showed a black outline against
a yet fiery western sky, then let it fall on a little grove of olive
trees planted on the farther side of the brook which skirted her
dwelling.  Everything was calm; approaching night brought silence along
with darkness: it was exactly what she saw every evening, but to leave
which required always an effort.

She rose to re-enter the house, when her attention was caught by a
movement amongst the trees.  For a moment she thought she was mistaken,
but the branches again rustled, then parted asunder, and the form of a
man appeared on the other side of the brook. Terrified, Bertrande tried
to scream, but not a sound escaped her lips; her voice seemed paralyzed
by terror, as in an evil dream.  And she almost thought it was a dream,
for notwithstanding the dark shadows cast around this indistinct
semblance, she seemed to recognise features once dear to her.  Had her
bitter reveries ended by making her the victim of a hallucination?  She
thought her brain was giving way, and sank on her knees to pray for help.
But the figure remained; it stood motionless, with folded arms, silently
gazing at her!  Then she thought of witchcraft, of evil demons, and
superstitious as every one was in those days, she kissed a crucifix which
hung from her neck, and fell fainting on the ground.  With one spring the
phantom crossed the brook and stood beside her.

"Bertrande!" it said in a voice of emotion.  She raised her head, uttered
a piercing cry, and was clasped in her husband's arms.

The whole village became aware of this event that same evening.  The
neighbours crowded round Bertrande's door, Martin's friends and relations
naturally wishing to see him after this miraculous reappearance, while
those who had never known him desired no less to gratify their curiosity;
so that the hero of the little drama, instead of remaining quietly at
home with his wife, was obliged to exhibit himself publicly in a
neighbouring barn.  His four sisters burst through the crowd and fell on
his neck weeping; his uncle examined him doubtfully at first, then
extended his arms.  Everybody recognised him, beginning with the old
servant Margherite, who had been with the young couple ever since their
wedding-day.  People observed only that a riper age had strengthened his
features, and given more character to his countenance and more
development to his powerful figure; also that he had a scar over the
right eyebrow, and that he limped slightly.  These were the marks of
wounds he had received, he said; which now no longer troubled him.  He
appeared anxious to return to his wife and child, but the crowd insisted
on hearing the story of his adventures during his voluntary absence, and
he was obliged to satisfy them.  Eight years ago, he said, the desire to
see more of the world had gained an irresistible mastery over him; he
yielded to it, and departed secretly.  A natural longing took him to his
birthplace in Biscay, where he had seen his surviving relatives.  There
he met the Cardinal of Burgos, who took him into his service, promising
him profit, hard knocks to give and take, and plenty of adventure.  Some
time after, he left the cardinal's household for that of his brother,
who, much against his will, compelled him to follow him to the war and
bear arms against the French.  Thus he found himself on the Spanish side
on the day of St. Quentin, and received a terrible gun-shot wound in the
leg.  Being carried into a house a an adjoining village, he fell into the
hands of a surgeon, who insisted that the leg must be amputated
immediately, but who left him for a moment, and never returned.  Then he
encountered a good old woman, who dressed his wound and nursed him night
and day.  So that in a few weeks he recovered, and was able to set out
for Artigues, too thankful to return to his house and land, still more to
his wife and child, and fully resolved never to leave them again.

Having ended his story, he shook hands with his still wondering
neighbours, addressing by name some who had been very young when he left,
and who, hearing their names, came forward now as grown men, hardly
recognisable, but much pleased at being remembered.  He returned his
sisters' carresses, begged his uncle's forgiveness for the trouble he had
given in his boyhood, recalling with mirth the various corrections
received.  He mentioned also an Augustinian monk who had taught him to
read, and another reverend father, a Capuchin, whose irregular conduct
had caused much scandal in the neighbourhood. In short, notwithstanding
his prolonged absence, he seemed to have a perfect recollection of
places, persons, and things.  The good people overwhelmed him with
congratulations, vying with one another in praising him for having the
good sense to come home, and in describing the grief and the perfect
virtue of his Bertrande. Emotion was excited, many wept, and several
bottles from Martin Guerre's cellar were emptied.  At length the assembly
dispersed, uttering many exclamations about the extraordinary chances of
Fate, and retired to their own homes, excited, astonished, and gratified,
with the one exception of old Pierre Guerre, who had been struck by an
unsatisfactory remark made by his nephew, and who dreamed all night about
the chances of pecuniary loss augured by the latter's return.

It was midnight before the husband and wife were alone and able to give
vent to their feelings.  Bertrande still felt half stupefied; she could
not believe her own eyes and ears, nor realise that she saw again in her
marriage chamber her husband of eight years ago, him for whom she had
wept; whose death she had deplored only a few hours previously.  In the
sudden shock caused by so much joy succeeding so much grief, she had not
been able to express what she felt; her confused ideas were difficult to
explain, and she seemed deprived of the powers of speech and reflection.
When she became calmer and more capable of analysing her feelings, she
was astonished not to feel towards her husband the same affection which
had moved her so strongly a few hours before.  It was certainly himself,
those were the same features, that was the man to whom she had willingly
given her hand, her heart, herself, and yet now that she saw him again a
cold barrier of shyness, of modesty, seemed to have risen between them.
His first kiss, even, had not made her happy: she blushed and felt
saddened--a curious result of the long absence!  She could not define the
changes wrought by years in his appearance: his countenance seemed
harsher, yet the lines of his face, his outer man, his whole personality,
did not seem altered, but his soul had changed its nature, a different
mind looked forth from those eyes.  Bertrande knew him for her husband,
and yet she hesitated.  Even so Penelope, on the, return of Ulysses,
required a certain proof to confirm the evidence of her eyes, and her
long absent husband had to remind her of secrets known only to herself.

Martin, however, as if he understood Bertrande's feeling and divined some
secret mistrust, used the most tender and affectionate phrases, and even
the very pet names which close intimacy had formerly endeared to them.

"My queen," he said, "my beautiful dove, can you not lay aside your
resentment?  Is it still so strong that no submission can soften it?
Cannot my repentance find grace in your eyes?  My Bertrande, my Bertha,
my Bertranilla, as I used to call you."

She tried to smile, but stopped short, puzzled; the names were the very
same, but the inflexion of voice quite different.

Martin took her hands in his.  "What pretty hands!  Do you still wear my
ring?  Yes, here it is, and with it the sapphire ring I gave you the day
Sanxi was born."

Bertrande did not answer, but she took the child and placed him in his
father's arms.

Martin showered caresses on his son, and spoke of the time when he
carried him as a baby in the garden, lifting him up to the fruit trees,
so that he could reach and try to bite the fruit.  He recollected one day
when the poor child got his leg terribly torn by thorns, and convinced
himself, not without emotion, that the scar could still be seen.

Bertrande was touched by this display of affectionate recollections, and
felt vexed at her own coldness.  She came up to Martin and laid her hand
in his.  He said gently--

"My departure caused you great grief: I now repent what I did.  But I was
young, I was proud, and your reproaches were unjust."

"Ah," said she, "you have not forgotten the cause of our quarrel?"

"It was little Rose, our neighbour, whom you said I was making love to,
because you found us together at the spring in the little wood. I
explained that we met only by chance,--besides, she was only a
child,--but you would not listen, and in your anger--"

"Ah! forgive me, Martin, forgive me!" she interrupted, in confusion.

"In your blind anger you took up, I know not what, something which lay
handy, and flung it at me.  And here is the mark," he continued, smiling,
"this scar, which is still to be seen."

"Oh, Martin!" Bertrande exclaimed, "can you ever forgive me?"

"As you see," Martin replied, kissing her tenderly.

Much moved, Bertrande swept aside his hair, and looked at the scar
visible on his forehead.

"But," she said, with surprise not free from alarm, "this scar seems to
me like a fresh one."

"Ah!" Martin explained, with a, little embarrassment; "it reopened
lately.  But I had thought no more about it.  Let us forget it,
Bertrande; I should not like a recollection which might make you think
yourself less dear to me than you once were."

And he drew her upon his knee.  She repelled him gently.

"Send the child to bed," said Martin.  "Tomorrow shall be for him;
to-night you have the first place, Bertrande, you only."

The boy kissed his father and went.

Bertrande came and knelt beside her husband, regarding him attentively
with an uneasy smile, which did not appear to please him by any means.

"What is the matter?" said he.  "Why do you examine me thus?"

"I do not know--forgive me, oh!  forgive me!  .  .  .  But the happiness
of seeing you was so great and unexpected, it is all like a dream.  I
must try to become accustomed to it; give me some time to collect myself;
let me spend this night in prayer.  I ought to offer my joy and my
thanksgiving to Almighty God--"

"Not so," interrupted her husband, passing his arms round her neck and
stroking her beautiful hair.  "No; 'tis to me that your first thoughts
are due.  After so much weariness, my rest is in again beholding you, and
my happiness after so many trials will be found in your love.  That hope
has supported me throughout, and I long to be assured that it is no
illusion."  So saying, he endeavoured to raise her.

"Oh," she murmured, "I pray you leave me."

"What!" he exclaimed angrily.  "Bertrande, is this your love?  Is it thus
you keep faith with me? You will make me doubt the evidence of your
friends; you will make me think that indifference, or even another
love----"

"You insult me," said Bertrande, rising to her feet.

He caught her in his arms.  "No, no; I think nothing which could wound
you, my queen, and I believe your fidelity, even as before, you know, on
that first journey, when you wrote me these loving letters which I have
treasured ever since.  Here they are."  And he drew forth some papers, on
which Bertrande recognised her own handwriting. "Yes," he continued, "I
have read and--re-read them....  See, you spoke then of your love and the
sorrows of absence.  But why all this trouble and terror?  You tremble,
just as you did when I first received you from your father's hands....
It was here, in this very room....  You begged me then to leave you, to
let you spend the night in prayer; but I insisted, do you remember? and
pressed you to my heart, as I do now."

"Oh," she murmured weakly, "have pity!"

But the words were intercepted by a kiss, and the remembrance of the
past, the happiness of the present, resumed their sway; the imaginary
terrors were forgotten, and the curtains closed around the marriage-bed.

The next day was a festival in the village of Artigues.  Martin returned
the visits of all who had come to welcome him the previous night, and
there were endless recognitions and embracings.  The young men remembered
that he had played with them when they were little; the old men, that
they had been at his wedding when he was only twelve.

The women remembered having envied Bertrande, especially the pretty Rose,
daughter of Marcel, the apothecary, she who had roused the demon of
jealousy in, the poor wife's heart.  And Rose knew quite well that the
jealousy was not without some cause; for Martin had indeed shown her
attention, and she was unable to see him again without emotion.  She was
now the wife of a rich peasant, ugly, old, and jealous, and she compared,
sighing, her unhappy lot with that of her more fortunate neighbour.
Martin's sisters detained him amongst them, and spoke of their childish
games and of their parents, both dead in Biscay.  Martin dried the tears
which flowed at these recollections of the past, and turned their
thoughts to rejoicing. Banquets were given and received.  Martin invited
all his relations and former friends; an easy gaiety prevailed.  It was
remarked that the hero of the feast refrained from wine; he was thereupon
reproached, but answered that on account of the wounds he had received he
was obliged to avoid excess.  The excuse was admitted, the result of
Martin's precautions being that he kept a clear head on his shoulders,
while all the rest had their tongues loosed by drunkenness.

"Ah!" exclaimed one of the guests, who had studied a little medicine,
"Martin is quite right to be afraid of drink.  Wounds which have
thoroughly healed may be reopened and inflamed by intemperance, and wine
in the case of recent wounds is deadly poison.  Men have died on the
field of battle in an hour or two merely because they had swallowed a
little brandy."

Martin Guerre grew pale, and began a conversation with the pretty Rose,
his neighbour.  Bertrande observed this, but without uneasiness; she had
suffered too much from her former suspicions, besides her husband showed
her so much affection that she was now quite happy.

When the first few days were over, Martin began to look into his affairs.
His property had suffered by his long absence, and he was obliged to go
to Biscay to claim his little estate there, the law having already laid
hands upon it.  It was several months before, by dint of making judicious
sacrifices, he could regain possession of the house and fields which had
belonged to his father.  This at last accomplished, he returned to
Artigues, in order to resume the management of his wife's property, and
with this end in view, about eleven months after his return, he paid a
visit to his uncle Pierre.

In England every tenant of a cottage pays rent, there, not an inhabitant,
however poor, but sits under his own vine and his own fig-tree.
In England the farm-house faces the road and the premises lie behind.
Here manure-heap, granary and pig styes open on the highway, the
dwellings being at the back.

In England a man's home, called his castle, is no more defended than the
Bedouin's tent. Here at nightfall the small peasant proprietor is
as securely entrenched within walls as a feudal baron in his moated
château. In England ninety-nine householders out of a hundred are perpetually
changing their domicile. Here folks live and die under the paternal
roof that has sheltered generations.

Nor does diversity end with circumstances and surroundings. As will
be seen in another chapter, habits of life, modes of thought and
standards of duty show contrasts equally marked.

Bourron possesses twelve hundred and odd souls, most of whom are peasants
who make a living out of their small patrimony.

Destined perhaps one day to rival its neighbour Marlotte in
popularity--even to become a second Barbizon--it is as yet the
sleepiest, most rustic retreat imaginable.

The climate would appear to be not only anti-asthmatic but anti-everything
in the shape of malady.

Anyhow, if folks fall ill they have to send elsewhere for a doctor.
Minor complaints--cuts, bruises and snake bites--are attended to
by a Fontainebleau chemist.

Every day we hear the horn of his messenger who cycles through the village
calling for prescriptions and leaving drugs and draughts.

A post office, of course, Bourron possesses, but let no one imagine
that a post office in out of the way country places implies a supply
of postage stamps.

English people are the greatest scribblers by post in the world,
whilst our wiser French neighbours appear to be the laziest.

An amusing dilemma had occurred here just before my arrival.

One day my friends applied to the post office for stamps, but none were
to be had for love or money. Off somebody cycled to Marlotte, which
possesses not only a post and telegraph, but a money order office as
well--same reply, next the adjoining village of Grez was visited and
with no better result--"Supplies have not yet reached us from headquarters,"
said the third postmistress.

Perhaps instead of smiling contemptuously we should take a moral
to heart.

The amount of time, money, eyesight and handcraft expended among
ourselves on letter writing so-called is simply appalling.

Was it not Napoleon who said that all letters if left unanswered
for a month answered themselves?

Too many Englishwomen spend the greater portion of the day in what is no
longer a delicate art, but mere time-killing, after the manner of
patience, games of cards and similar pastimes.

Bourron is a most orderly village; within its precincts liberty is not
allowed to degenerate into licence. As in summer-time folks are fond
of spending their evenings abroad, a municipal law has enforced quiet
after ten o'clock. Thus precisely on the stroke of ten, alike café, garden,
private summer-house or doorstep are deserted, everyone betakes himself
indoors, leaving his neighbours to enjoy unbroken repose. A most salutary
by-law! Would it were put in force throughout the length and breadth of
France! At Chatouroux I have been kept awake all night by the gossip
of a _sergeant de ville_ and a lounger close to my window. At Tours, La
Châtre and Bourges my fellow-traveller and myself could get no sleep
on account of street revellers, whilst at how many other places have not
holiday trips been spoiled by unquiet nights? All honour then to the
aediles of dear little Bourron!

CHAPTER IV.

BOURRON--_continued_.

Forty thousand acres of woodland at one's doors would seem a fact sufficiently
suggestive; to particularize the attractions of Bourron after this
statement were surely supererogation. Yet, for my own pleasure as
much as for the use of my readers, I must jot down one or two
especially persistent memories, impressions of solemnity, beauty and
repose never to be effaced.

Of course it is only the cyclist who can realise such an immensity as the
Fontainebleau forest. From end to end these vast sweeps are now intersected
by splendid roads and by-roads. Old-fashioned folks, for whom the
horseless vehicle came too late, can but envy wheelmen and wheelwomen
as they skim through vista after vista, outstripping one's horse and
carriage as a greyhound outstrips a decrepit poodle. On the other hand
only inveterate loiterers, the Lazy Lawrences of travel, can appreciate
the subtler beauties of this woodland world.

There are certain sights and sounds not to be caught by hurried observers,
evanescent aspects of cloud-land and tree-land, rock and undergrowth,
passing notes of bird and insect, varied melodies, if we may so express
it, of summer breeze and autumn wind--in fine, a dozen experiences
enjoyed one day, not repeated on the next. The music of the forest
is a quiet music and has to be listened for, hardly on the cyclist's ear
falls the song or rather accompaniment of the grasshopper, "the Muse of
the wayside," a French poet has so exquisitely apostrophized.

One's forest companion should be of a taciturn and contemplative
turn.

Only thus can we drink in the sense of such solitude and immensity;
realizing to the full what indeed these words may mean, he may
wander for hours without encountering a soul, very few birds are
heard by the way, but the hum of the insect world, that dreamy
go-between, hardly silence, hardly to be called noise, keeps us
perpetual company, and our eyes must ever be open for beautiful
little living things.

Now a green and gold lizard flashes across a bit of grey rock, now
a dragon-fly disports its sapphire wings amid the yellowing ferns
or purple ling, butterflies, white, blue, and black and orange,
flit hither and thither, whilst little beetles, blue as enamel
beads, enliven the mossy undergrowth.

One pre-eminent charm indeed of the Fontainebleau forest is this
wealth of undergrowth, bushes, brambles and ferns making a second
lesser thicket on all sides.

In sociable moods delightful it is to go a-blackberrying here.

I am almost tempted to say that if you want to realise the lusciousness
of a hedgerow dessert you must cater for yourself in these forty
thousand acres of blackberry orchard.

But the foremost, the crowning excellence of Fontainebleau forest
consists in its variety. France itself, the "splendid hexagon," with its
mountains, rivers and plains, is hardly more varied than this vast area
of rock and woodland. We can choose between sites, savage or idyllic,
pastoral or grandiose, here finding a sunny glade, the very spot for a
picnic, there break-neck declivities and gloomy chasms. The magnificent
ruggedness of Alpine scenery is before our eyes, without the awfulness
of snow-clad peaks or the blinding dazzle of glacier.

In more than one place we could almost fancy that some mountain has
been upheaved and split asunder, the clefts formed by these gigantic
fragments being now filled with veteran trees.

The formation of the forest has puzzled geologists, to this day the origin
of its rocky substratum remaining undetermined.

Within half an hour's stroll of Bourron lies the so-called "Mare aux
Fées" or Fairies' Mere, as sweet a spot to boil one's kettle in
as holiday makers can desire, at the same time affording the best
possible illustration of what I have just insisted upon.

For this favourite resort is in a certain sense microcosmic, giving
in miniature those characteristics for which the forest is remarkable.

Smooth and sunny as a garden plot is the open glade wherein we now
halt for tea, and while the kettle boils we have time for a most
suggestive bird's eye view.

It is a little world that we survey from the borders of this
rock-hemmed, forest-girt lake, one perspective after another with varying
gradations of colour making us realize the many-featured,
chequered area spread before us.

From this coign of vantage are discerned alike the sterner and the
more smiling beauties of the forest, rocky defiles, gloomy passes,
sunlit lawns and mossy dells, scenery varied in itself and yet
varying again with the passing hour and changing month.

And such suggestion
of almost infinite variety is not gained only from the Fairies'
Mere.

From a dozen points, not the same view but the same kind of view may be
obtained, each differing from the other, except in charm and immensity.
Within a walk of home also stands one of the numerous monuments
scattered throughout the forest.

The Croix de Saint Hérem, now a useful landmark for cyclists, has
a curious history.

It was erected in 1666 by a certain Marquis de Saint-Hérem, celebrated for
his ugliness, and centuries later was the scene of the most extraordinary
rendezvous on record.

Here, in 1804, every detail having been theatrically arranged
beforehand, took place the so-called chance meeting of Napoleon and
Pope Pius VII.

The Emperor had arranged a grand hunt for that day, and in hunting
dress, his dogs at his heels, awaited the pontiff by the cross of
Saint Hérem.

As the pair lovingly embraced each other the Imperial horses ran away;
this apparent escapade formed part of the programme, and Napoleon stepped
into the Pope's carriage, seating himself on his visitor's, rather his
prisoner's, right. A few years later another rencontre not without
historic irony took place here.

In 1816, Louis XVIII. received on this spot the future mother, so
it was hoped, of French Kings, the adventurous Caroline of Naples,
afterwards Duchesse de Berri.

The crosses monuments of the forest are usefully catalogued in local
guide-books, and many have historic associations. The most interesting
of these--readers will excuse the Irish bull--is a monument that may be
said never to have existed!

The great Polish patriot Kosciusko spent the last fifteen years of his
life in a hamlet near Nemours, and on his death the inhabitants of
that and neighbouring villages projected a double memorial, in other words,
a tiny chapel, the ruins of which are still seen near Episy, and a mound
to be added to every year and to be called "La Montagne de Kosciusko,"
or Kosciusko's mountain. Particulars of this generous and romantic scheme
are preserved in the archives of Montigny. The inauguration of the
mound took place on the ninth of October 1836. To the sound of
martial music, drums and cannon, the first layers of earth were
deposited, men, women and children taking part in the proceedings.

A year later no less than ten thousand French friends of Poland
with mattock and spade added several feet to Kosciusko's mountain.

But the celebration got noised abroad. Afraid of anti-Russian
manifestations the government of Louis Philippe prohibited any further
Polish fêtes.

Thus it came about that, as I have said, the most interesting monument
in the forest remains an idea.

And all things considered, neither French nor English admirers of the
exiled hero could to-day very well carve on the adjoining rock,
"And Freedom shrieked when Kosciusko fell."

Some time or other the Russian Imperial pair may visit Fontainebleau,
whilst an English tourist with _The Daily Mail_ in his pocket would
naturally and sheepishly look the other way.

Another half hour's stroll and we find ourselves in an atmosphere
of art, fashion and sociability.

Only a mile either of woodland, field path or high road separates
Bourron from its more populous and highly popular neighbour, Marlotte.
Here every house has an artist's north window, the road is alive
with motor cars, you can even buy a newspaper!

Marlotte possesses a big, I should say comfortable, hotel, is very
cosmopolitan and very pretty.

Anglo-French households here, as at Bourron, favour Anglo-French
relations.

In Marlotte drawing-rooms we are in France, but always with a
pleasant reminder of England and of true English hospitality.

CHAPTER V.

BOURRON--_continued._
I will now say something about my numerous acquaintances at Bourron.
After three summer holidays spent in this friendly little spot I can
boast of a pretty large visiting list, the kind of list requiring
no cards or ceremonious procedure.

My hostess, a Frenchwoman, and myself used to drop in for a chat
with this neighbour and that whenever we passed their way, always
being cheerily welcomed and always pressed to stay a little longer.

The French peasant is the most laborious, at the same time the most
leisurely, individual in the world.

Urgent indeed must be those farming operations that prevent him
from enjoying a talk.

Conversation, interchange of ideas, give and take by word of mouth, are as
necessary to the Frenchman's well-being as oxygen to his lungs.

"Man," writes Montesquieu, "is described as a sociable animal." From this
point of view it appears to me that the Frenchman may be called more of a
man than others; he is first and foremost a man, since he seems especially
made for society.

Elsewhere the same great writer adds:--"You may see in Paris individuals
who have enough to live upon for the rest of their days, yet they
labour so arduously as to shorten their days, in order, as they say, to
assure themselves of a livelihood." These two marked characteristics
are as true of the French peasant now-a-days as of the polite society
described in the "Lettres Persanes." In the eighteenth century cultivated
people did little else but talk. Morning, noon and night, their epigrammatic
tongues were busy. Conversation in historic salons became a fine
art.
There are no such literary côteries in our time. What with one
excitement and another, the Parisian world chats but has no time
for real conversation.

Perhaps for _Gauloiseries_, true Gallic salt, we must now go to the
unlettered, the sons of the soil, whose ancestors were boors when wit
sparkled among their social superiors.

Here are one or two types illustrating both characteristics, excellent
types in their way of the small peasant proprietor hereabouts, a class
having no counterpart or approximation to a counterpart in England.

The first visit I describe was paid one evening to an old gardener whom
I will call the Père A--. Bent partly with toil, partly with age, you
would have at once supposed that his working days were well over,
especially on learning his circumstances, for sole owner he was of the
little domain to which he had now retired for the day. Of benevolent aspect,
shrewd, every inch alive despite infirmities, he received his neighbour
and her English guest with rustic but cordial urbanity, at once entering
into conversation. With evident pride and pleasure he watched my glances
at premises and garden, house and outbuildings ramshackle enough, even
poverty-stricken to look at, here not an indication of comfortable
circumstances much less of independent means; the bit of land half farm,
half garden, however, was fairly well kept and of course productive.

"Yes, this dwelling is mine and the two hectares (four acres four hundred
and odd feet), aye," he added self-complacently, "and I have a little
money besides."
"Yet you live here all by yourself and still work for wages?" I asked.
His reply was eminently characteristic. "I work for my children." These
children he told me were two grown up sons, one of them being like
himself a gardener, both having work. Thus in order to hoard up a
little more for two able-bodied young men, here was a bent, aged man
living penuriously and alone, his only companion being a beautiful and
evidently much petted donkey. I ventured to express an English view of the
matter, namely, the undesirability of encouraging idleness and self-indulgence
in one's children by toiling and moiling for them in old age.

He nodded his head.

"You are right, all that you say is true, but so it is with me. I must
work for my children."

And thus blindly are brought about the parricidal tragedies that Zola,
Guy de Maupassant and other novelists have utilized in fiction, and with
which we are familiarized in French criminal reports--parents and grandparents
got rid of for the sake of their coveted hoardings.

Thus also are generated in the rich and leisured classes that intense
selfishness of the rising generation so movingly portrayed in M.
Hervieu's play, "La Course du Flambeau." No one who has witnessed Mme.
Réjane's presentment of the adoring, disillusioned mother can ever
forget it.

On leaving, the Père A---- presented us with grapes and pears, carefully
selecting the finest for his English visitor.

At the gate I threw a Parthian dart.

"Don't work too hard," I said, whereupon came the burden of his
song:

"One must work for one's children."
This good neighbour could neither read nor write, a quite exceptional
case in these days. Our second visit was made to a person similarly
situated, but belonging to a different order.

Madame B----, a widow, was also advanced in years and also lived by
herself on her little property, consisting of walled-in cottage and
outhouses, with straggling garden or rather orchard, garden and field
in one.

This good woman is what country folks in these parts call rich. I have
no doubt that an English farmeress in her circumstances would have the
neatest little parlour, a tidy maid to wait upon her, and most likely
take afternoon tea in a black silk gown. Our hostess here wore the dress
of a poor but respectable working woman. Her interior was almost as bare
and primitive as that of the Boer farmhouse in the Paris Exhibition.

Although between six and seven o'clock, there was no sign whatever of
preparation for an evening meal. Indeed on every side things looked
poverty-stricken. Not a penny had evidently been spent upon kitchen or
bedrooms for years and years, the brick floor of both being bare, the
furniture having done duty for generations.

This "rentière," or person living upon independent means, did not match
her sordid surroundings. Although toil-worn, tanned and wrinkled, her face
"brown as the ribbed sea-sand," there was a certain refinement
about look, speech and manner, distinguishing her from the good man her
neighbour. After a little conversation I soon found out that she had
literary tastes.

"Living alone and finding the winter evenings long I hire books from a
lending library at Fontainebleau," she said.

I opened my eyes in amazement. Seldom indeed had I heard of a
peasant proprietor in France caring for books, much less spending
money upon them.

"And what do you read?" I asked.

"Anything I can get," was the reply.

"Madame's husband," here she looked at my friend, "has kindly lent me
several."
Among these I afterwards found had been Zola's "Rome" and "Le Désastre"
by the brothers Margueritte.

Like the Père A---- she had married children and entertained precisely the
same notion of parental duty. The few sous spent upon such beguilement
of long winter nights were most likely economized by some little
deprivation. There is something extremely pathetic in this patriarchal
spirit, this uncompromising, ineradicable resolve to hand down a
little patrimony not only intact but enlarged.

"Our peasants live too sordidly," observed a Frenchman to me a day
or two later. "They carry thrift to the pitch of avarice and vice.
Zola's 'La Terre' is not without foundation on fact."
And excellent as is the principle of forethought, invaluable as is
the habit of laying by for a rainy day, I have at last come to the
conclusion that of the two national weaknesses, French avarice and English
lavishness and love of spending, the latter is more in accordance with
progress and the spirit of the age.

In another part of the village we called upon a hale old body of
seventy-seven, who not only lived alone and did everything for herself
indoors but the entire work of a market garden, every inch of the
two and a half acres being, of course, her own. Piled against an inner
wall we saw a dozen or so faggots each weighing, we were told, half
a hundredweight.
When the sounds died away, the woman turned slowly and
sadly towards her home, but as she approached the door a man suddenly
turned the corner of the house and barred her away.  Terrified, she was
on the point of crying for help, when he seized her arm and ordered her
to be silent.

"Rose," he whispered, "I know everything: that man is your lover.  In
order to receive him safely, you send your old husband to sleep by means
of a drug stolen from your father's shop.  This intrigue has been going
on for a month; twice a week, at seven o'clock, your door is opened to
this man, who does not proceed on his way to the town until ten.  I know
your lover: he is my nephew."

Petrified with terror, Rose fell on her knees and implored mercy.

"Yes," replied Pierre, "you may well be frightened: I have your secret.
I have only to publish it and you are ruined for ever:"

You will not do it!  "entreated the guilty woman, clasping her hands.

"I have only to tell your husband," continued Pierre, "that his wife has
dishonoured him, and to explain the reason of his unnaturally heavy
sleep."

"He will kill me!"

"No doubt: he is jealous, he is an Italian, he will know how to avenge
himself--even as I do."

"But I never did you any harm," Rose cried in despair.  "Oh! have pity,
have mercy, and spare me!"

"On one condition."

"What is it?"

"Come with me."

Terrified almost out of her mind, Rose allowed him to lead her away.

Bertrande had just finished her evening prayer, and was preparing for
bed, when she was startled by several knocks at her door.  Thinking that
perhaps some neighbour was in need of help, she opened it immediately,
and to her astonishment beheld a dishevelled woman whom Pierre grasped by
the arm.  He exclaimed vehemently--

"Here is thy judge!  Now, confess all to Bertrande!"

Bertrande did not at once recognise the woman, who fell at her feet,
overcome by Pierre's threats.

"Tell the truth here," he continued, "or I go and tell it to your
husband, at your own home!"--"Ah! madame, kill me," said the unhappy
creature, hiding her face; "let me rather die by your hand than his!"

Bertrande, bewildered, did not understand the position in the least, but
she recognised Rose--

"But what is the matter, madame?  Why are you here at this hour, pale and
weeping?  Why has my uncle dragged you hither?  I am to judge you, does
he say?  Of what crime are you guilty?"

"Martin might answer that, if he were here," remarked Pierre.

A lightning flash of jealousy shot through Bertrande's soul at these
words, all her former suspicions revived.

"What!" she said, "my husband!  What do you mean?"

"That he left this woman's house only a little while ago, that for a
month they have been meeting secretly.  You are betrayed: I have seen
them and she does not dare to deny it."

"Have mercy!" cried Rose, still kneeling.

The cry was a confession.  Bertrande became pate as death.  "O God!" she
murmured, "deceived, betrayed--and by him!"

"For a month past," repeated the old man.

"Oh! the wretch," she continued, with increasing passion; "then his whole
life is a lie!  He has abused my credulity, he now abuses my love!  He
does not know me!  He thinks he can trample on me--me, in whose power are
his fortune, his honour, his very life itself!"

Then, turning to Rose--

"And you, miserable woman! by what unworthy artifice did you gain his
love?  Was it by witchcraft? or some poisonous philtre learned from your
worthy father?"

"Alas! no, madame; my weakness is my only crime, and also my only excuse.
I loved him, long ago, when I was only a young girl, and these memories
have been my ruin."

"Memories?  What! did you also think you were loving the same man? Are
you also his dupe?  Or are you only pretending, in order to find a rag of
excuse to cover your wickedness?"

It was now Rose who failed to understand; Bertrande continued, with
growing excitement--

"Yes, it was not enough to usurp the rights of a husband and father, he
thought to play his part still better by deceiving the mistress also .  .
.  .  Ah! it is amusing, is it not?  You also, Rose, you thought he was
your old lover!  Well, I at least am excusable, I the wife, who only
thought she was faithful to her husband!"

"What does it all mean?" asked the terrified Rose.

"It means that this man is an impostor and that I will unmask him.
Revenge! revenge!"

Pierre came forward.  "Bertrande," he said, "so long as I thought you
were happy, when I feared to disturb your peace, I was silent, I
repressed my just indignation, and I spared the usurper of the name and
rights of my nephew.  Do you now give me leave to speak?"

"Yes," she replied in a hollow voice.

"You will not contradict me?"

By way of answer she sat down by the table and wrote a few hasty lines
with a trembling hand, then gave them to Pierre, whose eyes sparkled with
joy.

"Yes," he said, "vengeance for him, but for her pity.  Let this
humiliation be her only punishment.  I promised silence in return for
confession, will you grant it?"

Bertrande assented with a contemptuous gesture.

"Go, fear not," said the old man, and Rose went out.  Pierre also left
the house.

Left to herself, Bertrande felt utterly worn out by so much emotion;
indignation gave way to depression.  She began to realise what she had
done, and the scandal which would fall on her own head.  Just then her
baby awoke, and held out its arms, smiling, and calling for its father.
Its father, was he not a criminal?  Yes! but was it for her to ruin him,
to invoke the law, to send him to death, after having taken him to her
heart, to deliver him to infamy which would recoil on her own head and
her child's and on the infant which was yet unborn?  If he had sinned
before God, was it not for God to punish him?  If against herself, ought
she not rather to overwhelm him with contempt?  But to invoke the help,
of strangers to expiate this offence; to lay bare the troubles of her
life, to unveil the sanctuary of the nuptial couch--in short, to summon
the whole world to behold this fatal scandal, was not that what in her
imprudent anger she had really done?  She repented bitterly of her haste,
she sought to avert the consequences, and notwithstanding the night and
the bad weather, she hurried at once to Pierre's dwelling, hoping at all
costs to withdraw her denunciation.  He was not there: he had at once
taken a horse and started for Rieux.  Her accusation was already on its
way to the magistrates!

At break of day the house where Martin Guerre lodged when at Rieux was
surrounded by soldiers.  He came forward with confidence and inquired
what was wanted.  On hearing the accusation, he changed colour slightly,
then collected himself, and made no resistance. When he came before the
judge, Bertrande's petition was read to him, declaring him to be "an
impostor, who falsely, audaciously, and treacherously had deceived her by
taking the name and assuming the person of Martin Guerre," and demanding
that he should be required to entreat pardon from God, the king, and
herself.

The prisoner listened calmly to the charge, and met it courageously, only
evincing profound surprise at such a step being taken by a wife who had
lived with him for two years since his return, and who only now thought
of disputing the rights he had so long enjoyed.  As he was ignorant both
of Bertrande's suspicions and their confirmation, and also of the
jealousy which had inspired her accusation, his astonishment was
perfectly natural, and did not at all appear to be assumed.  He
attributed the whole charge to the machinations of his uncle, Pierre
Guerre; an old man, he said, who, being governed entirely by avarice and
the desire of revenge, now disputed his name and rights, in order the
better to deprive him of his property, which might be worth from sixteen
to eighteen hundred livres.  In order to attain his end, this wicked man
had not hesitated to pervert his wife's mind, and at the risk of her own
dishonour had instigated this calumnious charge--a horrible and
unheard-of thing in the mouth of a lawful wife.  "Ah! I do not blame
her," he cried; "she must suffer more than I do, if she really entertains
doubts such as these; but I deplore her readiness to listen to these
extraordinary calumnies originated by my enemy."

The judge was a good deal impressed by so much assurance.  The accused
was relegated to prison, whence he was brought two days later to
encounter a formal examination.

He began by explaining the cause of his long absence, originating, he
said, in a domestic quarrel, as his wife well remembered.  He there
related his life during these eight years.  At first he wandered over the
country, wherever his curiosity and the love of travel led him. He then
had crossed the frontier, revisited Biscay, where he was born, and having
entered the service of the Cardinal of Burgos, he passed thence into the
army of the King of Spain.  He was wounded at the battle of St. Quentin,
conveyed to a neighbouring village, where he recovered, although
threatened with amputation.  Anxious to again behold his wife and child,
his other relations and the land of his adoption, he returned to
Artigues, where he was immediately recognised by everyone, including the
identical Pierre Guerre, his uncle, who now had the cruelty to disavow
him.  In fact, the latter had shown him special affection up to the day
when Martin required an account of his stewardship.  Had he only had the
cowardice to sacrifice his money and thereby defraud his children, he
would not to-day be charged as an impostor.  "But," continued Martin, "I
resisted, and a violent quarrel ensued, in which anger perhaps carried me
too far; Pierre Guerre, cunning and revengeful, has waited in silence.
He has taken his time and his measures to organise this plot, hoping
thereby to obtain his ends, to bring justice to the help of his avarice,
and to acquire the spoils he coveted, and revenge for his defeat, by
means of a sentence obtained from the scruples of the judges."  Besides
these explanations, which did not appear wanting in probability, Martin
vehemently protested his innocence, demanding that his wife should be
confronted with him, and declaring that in his presence she would not
sustain the charge of personation brought against him, and that her mind
not being animated by the blind hatred which dominated his persecutor,
the truth would undoubtedly prevail.

He now, in his turn, demanded that the judge should acknowledge his
innocence, and prove it by condemning his calumniators to the punishment
invoked against himself; that his wife, Bertrande de Rolls, should be
secluded in some house where her mind could no longer be perverted, and,
finally, that his innocence should be declared, and expenses and
compensations awarded him.

After this speech, delivered with warmth, and with every token of
sincerity, he answered without difficulty all the interrogations of the
judge.  The following are some of the questions and answers, just as they
have come down to us:--

"In what part of Biscay were you born?"

"In the village of Aymes, province of Guipuscoa."

"What were the names of your parents?"

"Antonio Guerre and Marie Toreada."

"Are they still living?"

"My father died June 15th, 1530; my mother survived him three years and
twelve days."

"Have you any brothers and sisters?"

"I had one brother, who only lived three months.  My four sisters, Inez,
Dorothea, Marietta, and Pedrina, all came to live at Artigues when I did;
they are there still, and they all recognised me."

"What is the date of your marriage?"

"January 10, 1539."

"Who were present at the ceremony?"

"My father-in-law, my mother-in-law, my uncle, my two sisters, Maitre
Marcel and his daughter Rose; a neighbour called Claude Perrin, who got
drunk at the wedding feast; also Giraud, the poet, who composed verses in
our honour."

"Who was the priest who married you?"

"The old cure, Pascal Guerin, whom I did not find alive when I returned."

"What special circumstances occurred on the wedding-day?"

"At midnight exactly, our neighbour, Catherine Boere, brought us the
repast which is known as 'medianoche.'  This woman has recognised me, as
also our old Marguerite, who has remained with us ever since the
wedding."

"What is the date of your son's birth?"

"February 10, 1548, nine years after our marriage.  I was only twelve
when the ceremony took place, and did not arrive at manhood till several
years later."

"Give the date of your leaving Artigues."

"It was in August 1549.  As I left the village, I met Claude Perrin and
the cure Pascal, and took leave of them.  I went towards Beauvais, end I
passed through Orleans, Bourges, Limoges, Bordeaux, and Toulouse.  If you
want the names of people whom I saw and to whom I spoke, you can have
them.  What more can I say?"

Never, indeed, was there a more apparently veracious statement!  All the
doings of Martin Guerre seemed to be most faithfully described, and
surely only himself could thus narrate his own actions.  As the historian
remarks, alluding to the story of Amphitryon, Mercury himself could not
better reproduce all Sosia's actions, gestures, and words, than did the
false Martin Guerre those of the real one.

In accordance with the demand of the accused, Bertrande de Rolls was
detained in seclusion, in order to remove her from the influence of
Pierre Guerre.  The latter, however, did not waste time, and during the
month spent in examining the witnesses cited by Martin, his diligent
enemy, guided by some vague traces, departed on a journey, from which he
did not return alone.

All the witnesses bore out the statement of the accused; the latter heard
this in prison, and rejoiced, hoping for a speedy release. Before long he
was again brought before the judge, who told him that his deposition had
been confirmed by all the witnesses examined.

"Do you know of no others?" continued the magistrate.  "Have you no
relatives except those you have mentioned?"

"I have no others," answered the prisoner.

"Then what do you say to this man?" said the judge, opening a door.

An old man issued forth, who fell on the prisoner's neck, exclaiming, "My
nephew!"

Martin trembled in every limb, but only for a moment.  Promptly
recovering himself, and gazing calmly at the newcomer, he asked coolly--

"And who may you be?"

"What!" said the old man, "do you not know me?  Dare you deny me?--me,
your mother's brother, Carbon Barreau, the old soldier!  Me, who dandled
you on my knee in your infancy; me, who taught you later to carry a
musket; me, who met you during the war at an inn in Picardy, when you
fled secretly.  Since then I have sought you everywhere; I have spoken of
you, and described your face and person, until a worthy inhabitant of
this country offered to bring me hither, where indeed I did not expect to
find my sister's son imprisoned and fettered as a malefactor.  What is
his crime, may it please your honour?"

"You shall hear," replied the magistrate.  "Then you identify the
prisoner as your nephew?  You affirm his name to be---?"

"Arnauld du Thill, also called 'Pansette,' after his father, Jacques
Pansa.  His mother was Therese Barreau, my sister, and he was born in the
village of Sagias."

"What have you to say?" demanded the judge, turning to the accused.

"Three things," replied the latter, unabashed, "this man is either mad,
or he has been suborned to tell lies, or he is simply mistaken."

The old man was struck dumb with astonishment. But his supposed nephew's
start of terror had not been lost upon the judge, also much impressed by
the straightforward frankness of Carbon Barreau.  He caused fresh
investigations to be made, and other inhabitants of Sagias were summoned
to Rieux, who one and all agreed in identifying the accused as the same
Arnauld du Thill who had been born and had grown up under their very
eyes.  Several deposed that as he grew up he had taken to evil courses,
and become an adept in theft and lying, not fearing even to take the
sacred name of God in vain, in order to cover the untruth of his daring
assertions.  From such testimony the judge naturally concluded that
Arnauld du Thill was quite capable of carrying on, an imposture, and that
the impudence which he displayed was natural to his character.  Moreover,
he noted that the prisoner, who averred that he was born in Biscay, knew
only a few words of the Basque language, and used these quite wrongly.
He heard later another witness who deposed that the original Martin
Guerre was a good wrestler and skilled in the art of fence, whereas the
prisoner, having wished to try what he could do, showed no skill
whatever. Finally, a shoemaker was interrogated, and his evidence was not
the least damning.  Martin Guerre, he declared, required twelve holes to
lace his boots, and his surprise had been great when he found those of
the prisoner had only nine.  Considering all these points, and the
cumulative evidence, the judge of Rieux set aside the favourable
testimony, which he concluded had been the outcome of general credulity,
imposed on by an extraordinary resemblance. He gave due weight also to
Bertrande's accusation, although she had never confirmed it, and now
maintained an obstinate silence; and he pronounced a judgment by which
Arnauld du Thill was declared "attainted and convicted of imposture, and
was therefore condemned to be beheaded; after which his body should be
divided into four quarters, and exposed at the four corners of the town."

This sentence, as soon as it was known, caused much diversity of opinion
in the town.  The prisoner's enemies praised the wisdom of the judge, and
those less prejudiced condemned his decision; as such conflicting
testimony left room for doubt.  Besides, it was thought that the
possession of property and the future of the children required much
consideration, also that the most absolute certainty was demanded before
annulling a past of two whole years, untroubled by any counter claim
whatever.

The condemned man appealed from this sentence to the Parliament of
Toulouse.  This court decided that the case required more careful
consideration than had yet been given to it, and began by ordering
Arnauld du Thill to be confronted with Pierre Guerre and Bertrande de
Rolls.

Who can say what feelings animate a man who, already once condemned,
finds himself subjected to a second trial?  The torture scarcely ended
begins again, and Hope, though reduced to a shadow, regains her sway over
his imagination, which clings to her skirts, as it were, with
desperation.  The exhausting efforts must be recommenced; it is the last
struggle--a struggle which is more desperate in proportion as there is
less strength to maintain it.  In this case the defendant was not one of
those who are easily cast down; he collected all his energy, all his
courage, hoping to come victoriously out of the new combat which lay
before him.

The magistrates assembled in the great hall of the Parliament, and the
prisoner appeared before them.  He had first to deal with Pierre, and
confronted him calmly, letting him speak, without showing any emotion.
He then replied with indignant reproaches, dwelling on Pierre's greed and
avarice, his vows of vengeance, the means employed to work upon
Bertrande, his secret manoeuvres in order to gain his ends, and the
unheard-of animosity displayed in hunting up accusers, witnesses, and
calumniators.  He defied Pierre to prove that he was not Martin Guerre,
his nephew, inasmuch as Pierre had publicly acknowledged and embraced
him, and his tardy suspicions only dated from the time of their violent
quarrel.  His language was so strong and vehement, that Pierre became
confused and was unable to answer, and the encounter turned entirely in
Arnauld's favour, who seemed to overawe his adversary from a height of
injured innocence, while the latter appeared as a disconcerted slanderer.

The scene of his confrontation with Bertrande took a wholly different
character.  The poor woman, pale, cast down, worn by sorrow, came
staggering before the tribunal, in an almost fainting condition.  She
endeavoured to collect herself, but as soon as she saw the prisoner she
hung her head and covered her face with her hands.  He approached her and
besought her in the gentlest accents not to persist in an accusation
which might send him to the scaffold, not thus to avenge any sins he
might have committed against her, although he could not reproach himself
with any really serious fault.

Bertrande started, and murmured in a whisper, "And Rose?"

"Ah!" Arnauld exclaimed, astonished at this revelation.

His part was instantly taken.  Turning to the judges--

"Gentlemen," he said, "my wife is a jealous woman!  Ten years ago, when I
left her, she had formed these suspicions; they were the cause of my
voluntary exile.  To-day she again accuses me of, guilty relations with
the same person; I neither deny nor acknowledge them, but I affirm that
it is the blind passion of jealousy which, aided by my uncle's
suggestions, guided my wife's hand when she signed this denunciation."

Bertrande remained silent.

"Do you dare," he continued, turning towards her,--"do you dare to swear
before God that jealousy did not inspire you with the wish to ruin me?"

"And you," she replied, "dare you swear that I was deceived in my
suspicions?"

"You see, gentlemen," exclaimed the prisoner triumphantly, "her jealousy
breaks forth before your eyes.  Whether I am, or am not, guilty of the
sin she attributes to me, is not the question for you to decide.  Can you
conscientiously admit the testimony of a woman who, after publicly
acknowledging me, after receiving me in her house, after living two years
in perfect amity with me, has, in a fit of angry vengeance, thought she
could give the lie to all her wards and actions?  Ah!  Bertrande," he
continued, "if it only concerned my life I think I could forgive a
madness of which your love is both the cause and the excuse, but you are
a mother, think of that!  My punishment will recoil on the head of my
daughter, who is unhappy enough to have been born since our reunion, and
also on our unborn child, which you condemn beforehand to curse the union
which gave it being.  Think of this, Bertrande, you will have to answer
before God for what you are now doing!"

The unhappy woman fell on her knees, weeping.

"I adjure you," he continued solemnly, "you, my wife, Bertrande de Rolls,
to swear now, here, on the crucifix, that I am an impostor and a cheat."

A crucifix was placed before Bertrande; she made a sign as if to push it
away, endeavoured to speak, and feebly exclaimed, "No," then fell to the
ground, and was carried out insensible.

This scene considerably shook the opinion of the magistrates.  They could
not believe that an impostor, whatever he might be, would have sufficient
daring and presence of mind thus to turn into mockery all that was most
sacred.  They set a new inquiry on foot, which, instead of producing
enlightenment, only plunged them into still greater obscurity.  Out of
thirty witnesses heard, more than three-quarters agreed in identifying as
Martin Guerre the man who claimed his name. Never was greater perplexity
caused by more extraordinary appearances.  The remarkable resemblance
upset all reasoning: some recognised him as Arnauld du Thill, and others
asserted the exact contrary.  He could hardly understand Basque, some
said, though born in Biscay, was that astonishing, seeing he was only
three when he left the country?  He could neither wrestle nor fence well,
but having no occasion to practise these exercises he might well have
forgotten them.  The shoemaker--who made his shoes afore-time, thought he
took another measure, but he might have made a mistake before or be
mistaken now.  The prisoner further defended himself by recapitulating
the circumstances of his first meeting with Bertrande, on his return, the
thousand and one little details he had mentioned which he only could have
known, also the letters in his possession, all of which could only be
explained by the assumption that he was the veritable Martin Guerre.  Was
it likely that he would be wounded over the left eye and leg as the
missing man was supposed to be?  Was it likely that the old servant, that
the four sisters, his uncle Pierre, many persons to whom he had related
facts known only to himself, that all the community in short, would have
recognised him? And even the very intrigue suspected by Bertrande, which
had aroused her jealous anger, this very intrigue, if it really existed,
was it not another proof of the verity of his claim, since the person
concerned, as interested and as penetrating as the legitimate wife; had
also accepted him as her former lover?  Surely here was a mass of
evidence sufficient to cast light on the case.  Imagine an impostor
arriving for the first time in a place where all the inhabitants are
unknown to him, and attempting to personate a man who had dwelt there,
who would have connections of all kinds, who would have played his part
in a thousand different scenes, who would have confided his secrets, his
opinions, to relations, friends, acquaintances, to all sorts of people;
who had also a wife--that is to say, a person under whose eyes nearly his
whole life would be passed, a person would study him perpetually, with
whom he would be continually conversing on every sort of subject.  Could
such an impostor sustain his impersonation for a single day, without his
memory playing him false? From the physical and moral impossibility of
playing such a part, was it not reasonable to conclude that the accused,
who had maintained it for more than two years, was the true Martin
Guerre?

There seemed, in fact, to be nothing which could account for such an
attempt being successfully made unless recourse was had to an accusation
of sorcery.  The idea of handing him over to the ecclesiastical
authorities was briefly discussed, but proofs were necessary, and the
judges hesitated.  It is a principle of justice, which has become a
precept in law, that in cases of uncertainty the accused has the benefit
of the doubt; but at the period of which we are writing, these truths
were far from being acknowledged; guilt was presumed rather than
innocence; and torture, instituted to force confession from those who
could not otherwise be convicted, is only explicable by supposing the
judges convinced of the actual guilt of the accused; for no one would
have thought of subjecting a possibly innocent person to this suffering.
However, notwithstanding this prejudice, which has been handed down to us
by some organs of the public ministry always disposed to assume the guilt
of a suspected person,--notwithstanding this prejudice, the judges in
this case neither ventured to condemn Martin Guerre themselves as an
impostor, nor to demand the intervention of the Church.  In this conflict
of contrary testimony, which seemed to reveal the truth only to
immediately obscure it again, in this chaos of arguments and conjectures
which showed flashes of light only to extinguish them in greater
darkness, consideration for the family prevailed.  The sincerity of
Bertrande, the future of the children, seemed reasons for proceeding with
extreme caution, and this once admitted, could only yield to conclusive
evidence.  Consequently the Parliament adjourned the case, matters
remaining in 'statu quo', pending a more exhaustive inquiry.  Meanwhile,
the accused, for whom several relations and friends gave surety, was
allowed to be at liberty at Artigues, though remaining under careful
surveillance.

Bertrande therefore again saw him an inmate of the house, as if no doubts
had ever been cast on the legitimacy of their union.  What thoughts
passed through her mind during the long 'tete-a-tete'?  She had accused
this man of imposture, and now, notwithstanding her secret conviction,
she was obliged to appear as if she had no suspicion, as if she had been
mistaken, to humiliate herself before the impostor, and ask forgiveness
for the insanity of her conduct; for, having publicly renounced her
accusation by refusing to swear to it, she had no alternative left.  In
order to sustain her part and to save the honour of her children, she
must treat this man as her husband and appear submissive and repentant;
she must show him entire confidence, as the only means of rehabilitating
him and lulling the vigilance of justice.  What the widow of Martin
Guerre must have suffered in this life of effort was a secret between God
and herself, but she looked at her little daughter, she thought of her
fast approaching confinement, and took courage.

One evening, towards nightfall, she was sitting near him in the most
private corner of the garden, with her little child on her knee, whilst
the adventurer, sunk in gloomy thoughts, absently stroked Sanxi's fair
head. Both were silent, for at the bottom of their hearts each knew the
other's thoughts, and, no longer able to talk familiarly, nor daring to
appear estranged, they spent, when alone together, long hours of silent
dreariness.

All at once a loud uproar broke the silence of their retreat; they heard
the exclamations of many persons, cries of surprise mixed with angry
tones, hasty footsteps, then the garden gate was flung violently open,
and old Marguerite appeared, pale, gasping, almost breathless.  Bertrande
hastened towards her in astonishment, followed by her husband, but when
near enough to speak she could only answer with inarticulate sounds,
pointing with terror to the courtyard of the house.  They looked in this
direction, and saw a man standing at the threshold; they approached him.
He stepped forward, as if to place himself between them.  He was tall,
dark; his clothes were torn; he had a wooden leg; his countenance was
stern.  He surveyed Bertrande with a gloomy look: she cried aloud, and
fell back insensible; . . . she recognised her real husband!

Arnauld du Thill stood petrified.  While Marguerite, distracted herself,
endeavoured to revive her mistress, the neighbours, attracted by the
noise, invaded the house, and stopped, gazing with stupefaction at this
astonishing resemblance.  The two men had the same features, the same
height, the same bearing, and suggested one being in two persons.  They
gazed at each other in terror, and in that superstitious age the idea of
sorcery and of infernal intervention naturally occurred to those present.
All crossed themselves, expecting every moment to see fire from heaven
strike one or other of the two men, or that the earth would engulf one of
them. Nothing happened, however, except that both were promptly arrested,
in order that the strange mystery might be cleared up.

The wearer of the wooden leg, interrogated by the judges, related that he
came from Spain, where first the healing of his wound, and then the want
of money, had detained him hitherto.  He had travelled on foot, almost a
beggar.  He gave exactly the same reasons for leaving Artigues as had
been given by the other Martin Guerre, namely, a domestic quarrel caused
by jealous suspicion, the desire of seeing other countries, and an
adventurous disposition.  He had gone back to his birthplace, in Biscay;
thence he entered the service of the Cardinal of Burgos; then the
cardinal's brother had taken him to the war, and he had served with the
Spanish troops; at the battle of St. Quentiny--his leg had been shattered
by an arquebus ball.  So far his recital was the counterpart of the one
already heard by the judges from the other man.  Now, they began to
differ.  Martin Guerre stated that he had been conveyed to a house by a
man whose features he did not distinguish, that he thought he was dying,
and that several hours elapsed of which he could give no account, being
probably delirious; that he suffered later intolerable pain, and on
coming to himself, found that his leg had been amputated.  He remained
long between life and death, but he was cared for by peasants who
probably saved his life; his recovery was very slow.  He discovered that
in the interval between being struck down in the battle and recovering
his senses, his papers had disappeared, but it was impossible to suspect
the people who had nursed him with such generous kindness of theft.
After his recovery, being absolutely destitute, he sought to return to
France and again see his wife and child: he had endured all sorts of
privations and fatigues, and at length, exhausted, but rejoicing at being
near the end of his troubles, he arrived, suspecting nothing, at his own
door.  Then the terror of the old servant, a few broken words, made him
guess at some misfortune, and the appearance of his wife and of a man so
exactly like himself stupefied him.  Matters had now been explained, and
he only regretted that his wound had not at once ended his existence.

The whole story bore the impress of truth, but when the other prisoner
was asked what he had to say he adhered to his first answers, maintaining
their correctness, and again asserted that he was the real Martin Guerre,
and that the new claimant could only be Arnauld du Thill, the clever
impostor, who was said to resemble himself so much that the inhabitants
of Sagias had agreed in mistaking him for the said Arnauld.

The two Martin Guerres were then confronted without changing the
situation in the least; the first showing the same assurance, the same
bold and confident bearing; while the second, calling on God and men to
bear witness to his sincerity, deplored his misfortune in the most
pathetic terms.

The judge's perplexity was great: the affair became more and more
complicated, the question remained as difficult, as uncertain as ever.
All the appearances and evidences were at variance; probability seemed to
incline towards one, sympathy was more in favour of the other, but actual
proof was still wanting.

At length a member of the Parliament, M. de Coras, proposed as a last
chance before resorting to torture, that final means of examination in a
barbarous age, that Bertrande should be placed between the two rivals,
trusting, he said, that in such a case a woman's instinct would divine
the truth.  Consequently the two Martin Guerres were brought before the
Parliament, and a few moments after Bertrande was led in, weak, pale,
hardly able to stand, being worn out by suffering and advanced pregnancy.
Her appearance excited compassion, and all watched anxiously to see what
she would do.  She looked at the two men, who had been placed at
different ends of the hall, and turning from him who was nearest to her,
went and knelt silently before the man with the wooden leg; then, joining
her hands as if praying for mercy, she wept bitterly.  So simple and
touching an action roused the sympathy of all present; Arnauld du Thill
grew pale, and everyone expected that Martin Guerre, rejoiced at being
vindicated by this public acknowledgment, would raise his wife and
embrace her.  But he remained cold and stern, and in a contemptuous
tone--

"Your tears, madame," he said; "they do not move me in the least, neither
can you seek to excuse your credulity by the examples of my sisters and
my uncle.  A wife knows her husband more intimately than his other
relations, as you prove by your present action, and if she is deceived it
is because she consents to the deception.  You are the sole cause of the
misfortunes of my house, and to you only shall I ever impute them."

Thunderstruck by this reproach, the poor woman had no strength to reply,
and was taken home more dead than alive.

The dignified language of this injured husband made another point in his
favour.  Much pity was felt for Bertrande, as being the victim of an
audacious deception; but everybody agreed that thus it beseemed the real
Martin Guerre to have spoken.  After the ordeal gone through by the wife
had been also essayed by the sisters and other relatives, who one and all
followed Bertrande's example and accepted the new-comer, the court,
having fully deliberated, passed the following sentence, which we
transcribe literally:

"Having reviewed the trial of Arnauld du Thill or Pansette, calling
himself Martin Guerre, a prisoner in the Conciergerie, who appeals from
the decision of the judge of Rieux, etc.,

"We declare that this court negatives the appeal and defence of the said
Arnauld du Thill; and as punishment and amends for the imposture,
deception, assumption of name and of person, adultery, rape, sacrilege,
theft, larceny, and other deeds committed by the aforesaid du Thill, and
causing the above-mentioned trial; this court has condemned and condemns
him to do penance before the church of Artigue, kneeling, clad in his
shirt only, bareheaded and barefoot, a halter on his neck, and a burning
torch in his hand, and there he shall ask pardon from God, from the King,
and from justice, from the said Martin Guerre and Bertrande de Rolls,
husband and wife: and this done, the aforesaid du Thill shall be
delivered into the hands of the executioners of the King's justice, who
shall lead him through the customary streets and crossroads of the
aforesaid place of Artigues, and, the halter on his neck, shall bring him
before the house of the aforesaid Martin Guerre, where he shall be hung
and strangled upon a gibbet erected for this purpose, after which his
body shall be burnt: and for various reasons and considerations thereunto
moving the court, it has awarded and awards the goods of the aforesaid
Arnauld du Thill, apart from the expenses of justice, to the daughter
born unto him by the aforesaid Bertrande de Rolls, under pretence of
marriage falsely asserted by him, having thereto assumed the name and
person of the aforesaid Martin Guerre, by this mans deceiving the
aforesaid de Rolls; and moreover the court has exempted and exempts from
this trial the aforesaid Martin Guerre and Bertrande de Rolls, also the
said Pierre Guerre, uncle of the aforesaid Martin, and has remitted and
remits the aforesaid Arnauld du Thill to the aforesaid judge of Rieux, in
order that the present sentence may be executed according to its form and
tenor.  Pronounced judicially this 12th day of September 1560."

This sentence substituted the gallows for the decapitation decreed by the
first judge, inasmuch as the latter punishment was reserved for criminals
of noble birth, while hanging was inflicted on meaner persons.

When once his fate was decided, Arnauld du Thill lost all his audacity.
Sent back to Artigues, he was interrogated in prison by the judge of
Rieux, and confessed his imposture at great length.  He said the idea
first occurred to him when, having returned from the camp in Picardy, he
was addressed as Martin Guerre by several intimate friends of the latter.
He then inquired as to the sort of life, the habits and relations of,
this man, and having contrived to be near him, had watched him closely
during the battle.  He saw him fall, carried him away, and then, as the
reader has already seen, excited his delirium to the utmost in order to
obtain possession of his secrets.  Having thus explained his successful
imposture by natural causes, which excluded any idea of magic or sorcery,
he protested his penitence, implored the mercy of God, and prepared
himself for execution as became a Christian.

The next day, while the populace, collecting from the whole
neighbourhood, had assembled before the parish church of Artigues in
order to behold the penance of the criminal, who, barefoot, attired in a
shirt, and holding a lighted torch in his hand, knelt at the entrance of
the church, another scene, no less painful, took place in the house of
Martin Guerre.  Exhausted by her suffering, which had caused a premature
confinement, Bertrande lay on her couch of pain, and besought pardon from
him whom she had innocently wronged, entreating him also to pray for her
soul.  Martin Guerre, sitting at her bedside, extended his hand and
blessed her.  She took his hand and held it to her lips; she could no
longer speak.  All at once a loud noise was heard outside: the guilty man
had just been executed in front of the house.  When finally attached to
the gallows, he uttered a terrible cry, which was answered by another
from inside the house.  The same evening, while the body of the
malefactor was being consumed by fire, the remains of a mother and child
were laid to rest in consecrated ground.


ALI PACHA


CHAPTER I

The beginning of the nineteenth century was a time of audacious
enterprises and strange vicissitudes of fortune.  Whilst Western Europe
in turn submitted and struggled against a sub-lieutenant who made himself
an emperor, who at his pleasure made kings and destroyed kingdoms, the
ancient eastern part of the Continent; like mummies which preserve but
the semblance of life, was gradually tumbling to pieces, and getting
parcelled out amongst bold adventurers who skirmished over its ruins.
Without mentioning local revolts which produced only short-lived
struggles and trifling changes, of administration, such as that of
Djezzar Pacha, who refused to pay tribute because he thought himself
impregnable in his citadel of Saint-Jean-d'Acre, or that of
Passevend-Oglou Pacha, who planted himself on the walls of Widdin as
defender of the Janissaries against the institution of the regular
militia decreed by Sultan Selim at Stamboul, there were wider spread
rebellions which attacked the constitution of the Turkish Empire and
diminished its extent; amongst them that of Czerni-Georges, which raised
Servia to the position of a free state; of Mahomet Ali, who made his
pachalik of Egypt into a kingdom; and finally that of the man whose,
history we are about to narrate, Ali Tepeleni, Pacha of Janina, whose
long resistance to the suzerain power preceded and brought about the
regeneration of Greece.

Ali's own will counted for nothing in this important movement.  He
foresaw it, but without ever seeking to aid it, and was powerless to
arrest it.  He was not one of those men who place their lives and
services at the disposal of any cause indiscriminately; and his sole aim
was to acquire and increase a power of which he was both the guiding
influence, and the end and object.  His nature contained the seeds of
every human passion, and he devoted all his long life to their
development and gratification.  This explains his whole temperament; his
actions were merely the natural outcome of his character confronted with
circumstances.  Few men have understood themselves better or been on
better terms with the orbit of their existence, and as the personality of
an individual is all the more striking, in proportion as it reflects the
manners and ideas of the time and country in which he has lived, so the
figure of Ali Pacha stands out, if not one of the most brilliant, at
least one of the most singular in contemporary history.

From the middle of the eighteenth century Turkey had been a prey to the
political gangrene of which she is vainly trying to cure herself to-day,
and which, before long, will dismember her in the sight of all Europe.
Anarchy and disorder reigned from one end of the empire to the other.
The Osmanli race, bred on conquest alone, proved good for nothing when
conquest failed.  It naturally therefore came to pass when Sobieski, who
saved Christianity under the walls of Vienna, as before his time Charles
Martel had saved it on the plains of Poitiers, had set bounds to the wave
of Mussulman westward invasion, and definitely fixed a limit which it
should not pass, that the Osmanli warlike instincts recoiled upon
themselves.  The haughty descendants of Ortogrul, who considered
themselves born to command, seeing victory forsake them, fell back upon
tyranny.  Vainly did reason expostulate that oppression could not long be
exercised by hands which had lost their strength, and that peace imposed
new and different labours on those who no longer triumphed in war; they
would listen to nothing; and, as fatalistic when condemned to a state of
peace as when they marched forth conquering and to conquer, they cowered
down in magnificent listlessness, leaving the whole burden of their
support on conquered peoples.  Like ignorant farmers, who exhaust fertile
fields by forcing crops; they rapidly ruined their vast and rich empire
by exorbitant exactions.  Inexorable conquerors and insatiable masters,
with one hand they flogged their slaves and with the other plundered
them.  Nothing was superior to their insolence, nothing on a level with
their greed.  They were never glutted, and never relaxed their
extortions.  But in proportion as their needs increased on the one hand,
so did their resources diminish on the other.  Their oppressed subjects
soon found that they must escape at any cost from oppressors whom they
could neither appease nor satisfy.  Each population took the steps best
suited to its position and character; some chose inertia, others
violence.  The inhabitants of the plains, powerless and shelterless, bent
like reeds before the storm and evaded the shock against which they were
unable to stand.  The mountaineers planted themselves like rocks in a
torrent, and dammed its course with all their might.  On both sides arose
a determined resistance, different in method, similar in result.  In the
case of the peasants labour came to a stand-still; in that of the hill
folk open war broke out.  The grasping exactions of the tyrant dominant
body produced nothing from waste lands and armed mountaineers;
destitution and revolt were equally beyond their power to cope with; and
all that was left for tyranny to govern was a desert enclosed by a wall.

But, all the same, the wants of a magnificent sultan, descendant of the
Prophet and distributor of crowns, must be supplied; and to do this, the
Sublime Porte needed money.  Unconsciously imitating the Roman Senate,
the Turkish Divan put up the empire for sale by public auction.  All
employments were sold to the highest bidder; pachas, beys, cadis,
ministers of every rank, and clerks of every class had to buy their posts
from their sovereign and get the money back out of his subjects.  They
spent their money in the capital, and recuperated themselves in the
provinces.  And as there was no other law than their master's pleasure,
so there, was no other guarantee than his caprice.  They had therefore to
set quickly to work; the post might be lost before its cost had been
recovered.  Thus all the science of administration resolved itself into
plundering as much and as quickly as possible.  To this end, the delegate
of imperial power delegated in his turn, on similar conditions, other
agents to seize for him and for themselves all they could lay their hands
on; so that the inhabitants of the empire might be divided into three
classes--those who were striving to seize everything; those who were
trying to save a little; and those who, having nothing and hoping for
nothing, took no interest in affairs at all.

Albania was one of the most difficult provinces to manage.  Its
inhabitants were poor, brave, and, the nature of the country was
mountainous and inaccessible.  The pashas had great difficulty in
collecting tribute, because the people were given to fighting for their
bread.  Whether Mahomedans or Christians, the Albanians were above all
soldiers.  Descended on the one side from the unconquerable Scythians, on
the other from the ancient Macedonians, not long since masters of the
world; crossed with Norman adventurers brought eastwards by the great
movement of the Crusades; they felt the blood of warriors flow in their
veins, and that war was their element. Sometimes at feud with one
another, canton against canton, village against village, often even house
against house; sometimes rebelling against the government their sanjaks;
sometimes in league with these against the sultan; they never rested from
combat except in an armed peace.  Each tribe had its military
organisation, each family its fortified stronghold, each man his gun on
his shoulder.  When they had nothing better to do, they tilled their
fields, or mowed their neighbours', carrying off, it should be noted, the
crop; or pastured their, flocks, watching the opportunity to trespass
over pasture limits.  This was the normal and regular life of the
population of Epirus, Thesprotia, Thessaly, and Upper Albania.  Lower
Albania, less strong, was also less active and bold; and there, as in
many other parts of Turkey, the dalesman was often the prey of the
mountaineer. It was in the mountain districts where were preserved the
recollections of Scander Beg, and where the manners of ancient Laconia
prevailed; the deeds of the brave soldier were sung on the lyre, and the
skilful robber quoted as an example to the children by the father of the
family.  Village feasts were held on the booty taken from strangers; and
the favourite dish was always a stolen sheep.  Every man was esteemed in
proportion to his skill and courage, and a man's chances of making a good
match were greatly enhanced when he acquired the reputation of being an
agile mountaineer and a good bandit.

The Albanians proudly called this anarchy liberty, and religiously
guarded a state of disorder bequeathed by their ancestors, which always
assured the first place to the most valiant.

It was amidst men and manners such as these that Ali Tepeleni was born.
He boasted that he belonged to the conquering race, and that he descended
from an ancient Anatolian family which had crossed into Albania with the
troops of Bajazet Ilderim.  But it is made certain by the learned
researches of M. de Pouqueville that he sprang from a native stock, and
not an Asiatic one, as he pretended.  His ancestors were Christian
Skipetars, who became Mussulmans after the Turkish invasion, and his
ancestry certainly cannot be traced farther back than the end of the
sixteenth century.

Mouktar Tepeleni, his grandfather, perished in the Turkish expedition
against Corfu, in 1716.  Marshal Schullemburg, who defended the island,
having repulsed the enemy with loss, took Mouktar prisoner on Mount San
Salvador, where he was in charge of a signalling party, and with a
barbarity worthy of his adversaries, hung him without trial. It must be
admitted that the memory of this murder must have had the effect of
rendering Ali badly disposed towards Christians.

Mouktar left three sons, two of whom, Salik and Mahomet, were born of the
same mother, a lawful wife, but the mother of the youngest, Veli, was a
slave.  His origin was no legal bar to his succeeding like his brothers.
The family was one of the richest in the town of Tepelen, whose name it
bore, it enjoyed an income of six thousand piastres, equal to twenty
thousand francs.  This was a large fortune in a poor country, where, all
commodities were cheap.  But the Tepeleni family, holding the rank of
beys, had to maintain a state like that of the great  financiers of
feudal Europe.  They had to keep a large stud of horses, with a great
retinue of servants and men-at-arms, and consequently to incur heavy
expenses; thus they constantly found their revenue inadequate.  The most
natural means of raising it which occurred to them was to diminish the
number of those who shared it; therefore the two elder brothers, sons of
the wife, combined against Veli, the son of the slave, and drove him out
of the house.  The latter, forced to leave home, bore his fate like a
brave man, and determined to levy exactions on others to compensate him
for the losses incurred through his brothers.  He became a freebooter,
patrolling highroads and lanes, with his gun on his shoulder and his
yataghan in his belt, attacking, holding for ransom, or plundering all
whom he encountered.

After some years of this profitable business, he found himself a wealthy
man and chief of a warlike band.  Judging that the moment for vengeance
had arrived, he marched for Tepelen, which he reached unsuspected,
crossed the river Vojutza, the ancient Aous, penetrated the streets
unresisted, and presented himself before the paternal house, in which his
brothers, forewarned, had barricaded themselves. He at once besieged
them, soon forced the gates, and pursued them to a tent, in which they
took a final refuge.  He surrounded this tent, waited till they were
inside it, and then set fire to the four corners.  "See," said he to
those around him, "they cannot accuse me of vindictive reprisals; my
brothers drove me out of doors, and I retaliate by keeping them at home
for ever."

In a few moments he was his father's sole heir and master of Tepelen.
Arrived at the summit of his ambition, he gave up free-booting, and
established himself in the town, of which he became chief ago.  He had
already a son by a slave, who soon presented him with another son, and
afterwards with a daughter, so that he had no reason to fear dying
without an heir.  But finding himself rich enough to maintain more wives
and bring up many children, he desired to increase his credit by allying
himself to some great family of the country.  He therefore solicited and
obtained the hand of Kamco, daughter of a bey of Conitza.  This marriage
attached him by the ties of relationship to the principal families of the
province, among others to Kourd Pacha, Vizier of Serat, who was descended
from the illustrious race of Scander Beg.  After a few years, Veli had by
his new wife a son named Ali, the subject of this history, and a daughter
named Chainitza.

Ire spite of his intentions to reform, Veli could not entirely give up
his old habits.  Although his fortune placed him altogether above small
gains and losses, he continued to amuse himself by raiding from time to
time sheep, goats, and other perquisites, probably to keep his hand in.
This innocent exercise of his taste was not to the fancy of his
neighbours, and brawls and fights recommenced in fine style.  Fortune did
not always favour him, and the old mountaineer lost in the town part of
what he had made on the hills.  Vexations soured his temper and injured
his health.  Notwithstanding the injunctions of Mahomet, he sought
consolation in wine, which soon closed his career.  He died in 1754.


CHAPTER II

Ali thus at thirteen years of age was free to indulge in the impetuosity
of his character.  From his early youth he had manifested a mettle and
activity rare in young Turks, haughty by nature and self-restrained by
education.  Scarcely out of the nursery, he spent his time in climbing
mountains, wandering through forests, scaling precipices, rolling in
snow, inhaling the wind, defying the tempests, breathing out his nervous
energy through every pore.  Possibly he learnt in the midst of every kind
of danger to brave everything and subdue everything; possibly in sympathy
with the majesty of nature, he felt aroused in him a need of personal
grandeur which nothing could satiate.  In vain his father sought to calm
his savage temper; and restrain his vagabond spirit; nothing was of, any
use.  As obstinate as intractable, he set at defiance all efforts and all
precautions.  If they shut him up, he broke the door or jumped out of the
window; if they threatened him, he pretended to comply, conquered by
fear, and promised everything that was required, but only to break his
word the first opportunity.  He had a tutor specially attached to his
person and charged to supervise all his actions.  He constantly deluded
him by fresh tricks, and when he thought himself free from the
consequences, he maltreated him with gross violence.  It was only in his
youth, after his father's death, that he became more manageable; he even
consented to learn to read, to please his mother, whose idol he was, and
to whom in return he gave all his affection.

If Kamco had so strong a liking for Ali, it was because she found in him,
not only her blood, but also her character.  During the lifetime of her
husband, whom she feared, she seemed only an ordinary woman; but as soon
as his eyes were closed, she gave free scope to the violent passions
which agitated her bosom.  Ambitious, bold, vindictive; she assiduously
cultivated the germs of ambition, hardihood, and vengeance which already
strongly showed themselves in the young Ali.  "My son," she was never
tired of telling him, "he who cannot defend his patrimony richly deserves
to lose it.  Remember that the property of others is only theirs so long
as they are strong enough to keep it, and that when you find yourself
strong enough to take it from them, it is yours.  Success justifies
everything, and everything is permissible to him who has the power to do
it."

Ali, when he reached the zenith of his greatness, used to declare that
his success was entirely his mother's work.  "I owe everything to my
mother," he said one day to the French Consul; "for my father, when he
died, left me nothing but a den of wild beasts and a few fields.  My
imagination, inflamed by the counsels of her who has given me life twice
over, since she has made me both a man and a vizier, revealed to me the
secret of my destiny.  Thenceforward I saw nothing in Tepelen but the
natal air from which I was to spring on the prey which I devoured
mentally.  I dreamt of nothing else but power, treasures, palaces, in
short what time has realised and still promises; for the point I have now
reached is not the limit of my hopes."

Kamco did not confine herself to words; she employed every means to
increase the fortune of her beloved son and to make him a power.  Her
first care was to poison the children of Veli's favourite slave, who had
died before him.  Then, at ease about the interior of her family, she
directed her attention to the exterior.  Renouncing all the habit of her
sex, she abandoned the veil and the distaff, and took up arms, under
pretext of maintaining the rights of her children.  She collected round
her her husband's old partisans, whom she attached to her, service, some
by presents, others by various favours, and she gradually enlisted all
the lawless and adventurous men in Toscaria. With their aid, she made
herself all powerful in Tepelen, and inflicted the most rigorous
persecutions on such as remained hostile to her.

But the inhabitants of the two adjacent villages of Kormovo and Kardiki,
fearing lest this terrible woman, aided by her son, now grown into a man,
should strike a blow against their independence; made a secret alliance
against her, with the object of putting her out of the way the first
convenient opportunity.  Learning one day that Ali had started on a
distant expedition with his best soldiers; they surprised Tepelen under
cover of night, and carried off Kamco and her daughter Chainitza captives
to Kardiki.  It was proposed to put them to death; and sufficient
evidence to justify their execution was not wanting; but their beauty
saved their lives; their captors preferred to revenge themselves by
licentiousness rather than by murder.  Shut up all day in prison, they
only emerged at night to pass into the arms of the men who had won them
by lot the previous morning.  This state of things lasted for a month, at
the end of which a Greek of Argyro-Castron, named G. I finish these
reminiscences of Bourron by the following citation from Balzac's "Ursule
Mirouët":--

"On entering Nemours at five o'clock in the morning, Ursule woke up feeling
quite ashamed of her untidiness, and of encountering Savinien's look
of admiration. During the time that the diligence took to come from
Bouron (_sic_), where it stopped a few minutes, the young man had
observed Ursule.

He had noted the candour of her mind, the beauty of her person, the whiteness
of her complexion, the delicacy of her features, the charm of the voice
which had uttered the short and expressive sentence, in which the poor
child said everything, while wishing to say nothing. In short I do not
know what presentiment made him see in Ursule the woman whom the doctor
had depicted, framed in gold, with these magic words:--'Seven to eight
hundred thousand francs!'"
Holiday tourists in these parts cannot do better than put this
love-story in their pockets.

CHAPTER VIII.

NEMOURS.

"Who knows Nemours," wrote Balzac, "knows that nature there is as
beautiful as art," and again he dwells upon the charm of the sleepy little
town memorialized in "Ursule Mirouët."
The delicious valley of Loing indeed fascinated Balzac almost as
much as his beloved Touraine.

As his recently published letters to Madame Hanska have shown us, several
of his greatest novels were written in this neighbourhood, whilst in
the one named above we have a setting as striking as that of "Eugenie
Grandet" or "Béatrix." A ten minutes' railway journey brings us to
Nemours, one of the few French towns, by the way, in which Arthur Young
lost his temper. Here is his own account of the incident:--
"Sleep at Nemours, where we met with an innkeeper who exceeded in knavery
all we had met with, either in France or Italy: for supper, we had a
_soupe maigre_, a partridge and a chicken roasted, a plate of
celery, a small cauliflower, two bottles of poor _vin du Pays_, and a
dessert of two biscuits and four apples: here is the bill:--Potage
1 liv. 10f.

--Perdrix 2 liv. 10f.--Poulet 2 liv.--Céleri 1 liv.
4f.--Choufleur 2 liv.--Pain et dessert 2 liv.--Feu et appartement 6
liv.--Total 19 liv. 8f. Against so impudent an extortion we remonstrated
severely but in vain. We then insisted on his signing the bill,
which, after many evasions, he did, _à l'étoile, Foulliare_. But having
been carried to the inn, not as the star, but the _écu de France_,
we suspected some deceit: and going out to examine the premises, we found
the sign to be really the _écu_, and learned on enquiry that his own
name was Roux, instead of _Foulliare_: he was not prepared for this
detection, or for the execration we poured on such infamous conduct;
but he ran away in an instant and hid himself till we were gone. In justice
to the world, however, such a fellow ought to be marked out."
I confess I do not myself find such charges excessive. From a very
different motive, Nemours put me as much out of temper as it had done my
great predecessor a hundred years before. Will it be believed that a town
memorialized by the great, perhaps _the_ greatest, French novelist, could
not produce its title of honour, in other words a copy of "Ursule
Mirouët"?

This town of 4,000 and odd souls and chef-lieu of department does not
possess a bookseller's shop. We did indeed see in a stationer's window
one or two penny books, among these an abridged translation of "Uncle Tom's
Cabin." But a friendly wine merchant, who seemed to take my reproaches
very much to heart, assured us that in the municipal library all Balzac's
works were to be found, besides many valuable books dealing with local
history.

Cold comfort this for tourists who want to buy a copy of the Nemours story!
As we stroll about the grass-grown streets, we feel that railways,
telephones and the rest have very little changed Nemours since Balzac's
descriptions, written three-quarters of a century ago.

The sweet and pastoral surroundings of the place are in strong contrast
with the sordid next-of-kin peopling the pages of his romance.
Beyond the fine old church of rich grey stone, you obtain as
enchanting a view as the valley of the Loing can show, a broad,
crystal-clear river winding amid picturesque architecture, richest
and most varied foliage, ash and weeping willow mingling with
deeper-hued beech and alder.

It is difficult, almost impossible, to describe the charm of this riverside
scenery. In one passage of his novel, Balzac compares the view to the
scenery of an opera, and in very truth every feature forms a whole so
harmonious as to suggest artistic arrangement.

Nature and accident have effected the happiest possible combination
of wood, water and building stone. Nothing is here to mar the complete
picture.

Grandly the cathedral-like church and fine old château stand out to-day
against the brilliant sky, soft grey stone and dark brown making subdued
harmonies. Formerly Nemours was surrounded by woods, hence its name. People
are said to attain here a very great age, life being tranquil and the
nature of the people somewhat lethargic.

Amongst the more energetic inhabitants are a lady dentist and her sister,
who between them do a first rate business.

French peasants never dream of indulging in false teeth; such an idea
would never enter the head of even the richest.

But an aching tooth interferes with the labours of the farm, and must
be got rid of at any cost. This young lady _chirurgien et dentiste_,
such is the name figuring on her door plate, is not only most expert in
using the forceps, but is attractive and pretty.

Her charges are two francs for a visit or operation; in partnership with
her is a sister who does the accounts, and as nuns and sisters of charity
unprovided with certificates are no longer allowed to draw teeth, act
as midwives and cut off limbs, country doctors and dentists of
either sex have now a fair chance.

No town in this part of France suffered more during the German
invasion.

The municipal authorities had at first decided upon making a bold stand,
thus endeavouring to check the enemy's advance on Paris. Differences of
opinion arose, prudential counsels prevailed, and it was through a mistaken
order that a Prussian detachment was attacked near the town.
The consequences were appalling. The station was burned to the
ground, enormous contributions in money and material were exacted from
the town, some of the authorities were made to travel on the
railways with the invaders, and others were carried off to remote
fortresses of Brandenburg and there kept as prisoners for nine months.

The account of all these incidents, written by a victim, may be consulted
in a volume of the town library.

If people frequently attain the age of a hundred in Nemours, as I was
assured, it is rather due to placid temperament than to intellectual
torpor. The town possesses learned societies, and a member of its
archaeological association has published a book of great local interest
and value, viz:--"Nemours, Temps Géologiques, Temps Préhistoriques, Temps
Historiques, par E.

Doigneau, Membre de la Société Archéologique de Seine-et-Marne, Ancien
Vice Président de la section de Fontainebleau, Paris."
Strange to say, although this neighbourhood has offered a rich field
for prehistoric research, Nemours as yet possesses no museum, I
do verily believe the first French town of any size I have ever found
in France without one at least in embryo.

For the cyclist the run from Bourron to Nemours is delightful, on the
hottest day in the year spinning along broad well-wooded roads, with
lovely perspectives from time to time.

CHAPTER IX.

LA CHARITÉ-SUR-LOIRE.

From Bourron, in September, 1900, I journeyed with a friend to La Charité,
a little town four hours off.

It is ever with feelings of pleasurable anticipation that I approach
any French town for the first time. The number of these, alas!

now being few, I have of late years been compelled to restrain curiosity,
leaving one or two dreamed-of spots for the future, saying with
Wordsworth:--
"Should life be dull and spirits low, 'Twill soothe us in our sorrow, That
earth has something yet to show, The bonny holms of Yarrow."
La Charité, picturesque of the picturesque--according to French accounts,
English, we have none--for many years had been a Yarrow to me, a reserve
of delight, held back from sheer Epicureanism.

As, on the 12th of September, the cumbersome old omnibus rattled over the
unpaved streets, both to myself and fellow traveller came a feeling
of disenchantment. We had apparently reached one more of those sleepy
little _chefs-lieux_ familiar to both, places of interest certainly,
the sleepiest having some architectural gem or artistic treasure.
But here was surely no Yarrow!

A few minutes later we discovered our error. Hardly had we reached our
rooms in the more than old-fashioned Hôtel du Grand Monarque, than
from a side window, we caught sight of the Loire; so near, indeed,
lay the bright, blue river, that we could almost have thrown pebbles
into its clear depths; quitting the hotel, half a dozen steps, no
more were needed, an enchanting scene burst upon the view.

Most beautiful is the site of La Charité, built terrace-wise, not on
the skirts but on the very hem of the Loire, here no revolutionary
torrent, sweeping away whole villages, leaving only church steeples
visible above the engulfing waters, as I had once seen it at Nantes,
but a broad, smooth, crystal expanse of sky-blue. Over against the
handsome stone bridge to-day having its double in the limpid water, we
see a little islanded hamlet crowned with picturesque church tower;
and, placing ourselves midway between the town and its suburban twin,
obtain vast and lovely perspectives. Westward, gradually purpling as
evening wears on, rises the magnificent height of Sancerre, below, amid
low banks bordered with poplar, flowing the Loire. Eastward, looking
towards Nevers, our eyes rest on the same broad sheet of blue; before
us, straight as an arrow, stretches the French road of a pattern we know
so well, an apparently interminable avenue of plane or poplar trees.
The river is low at this season, and the velvety brown sands recall the
sea-shore when the tide is out.

Exquisite, at such an hour are the reflections, every object having its
mirrored self in the transparent waves, the lights and shadows of twilight
making lovely effects.

As is the case with Venice, La Charité should be reached by river,
and a pity it seems that little steamers do not ply between all the
principal towns on the Loire.

How enchanting, like the immortal Vert-Vert, of Gresset's poem, to travel
from Nevers to the river's mouth!

If I had headed this paper merely with the words "La Charité," I should
surely be supposed to treat of some charitable institution in France,
or of charity as worked out in the abstract, for this first
of Christian virtues has given the place its name, presumably
perpetuating the charitableness of its abbatial founders. Just upon two
thousand years ago, some pious monks of the order of Cluny settled here,
calling their foundation La Charité. Gradually a town grew around the
abbey walls, and what better name for any than this? So La Charité it
was in early feudal times, and La Charité it remains in our own.

The place itself is as antiquated and behindhand as any I have seen in
France, which is saying a good deal. A French gentleman, native of
these parts, told me that in his grandfather's time our Hôtel du
Grand Monarque enjoyed a fine reputation. In many respects it deserves
the same still, excellent beds, good cooking, quietude and low
prices not being so common as they might be in French provincial
inns.

The house, too, is curious, what with its spiral stone staircases, little
passages leading to one room here, to another there--as if in former days
travellers objected to walls that adjoined those of other people--and
unaccountable levels, it is impossible to understand whether you
were on the first floor or the second floor, house-top, or basement.
Our bedrooms, for instance, reached by one of the spiral stone staircases
just named never used by myself without apprehension, landed us on the
edge of a poultry yard; I suppose a wide bit of roof had been converted
into this use, but it was quite impossible to make out any architectural
plan.

These rooms adjoining this _basse-cour_, hens and chicks would enter
unceremoniously and pick up the crumbs we threw to them.
Fastidious tourists might resent so primitive a state of things, the hotel,
I should say, remaining exactly what it was under the Ancien Régime.
The beauty and interest of various kinds around, more than make up for
small drawbacks. Here the archaeologist will not grudge several
days. Ruined as it is, the ancient abbey may be reconstructed in the
mind's eye by the help of what we see before us. The fragments of
crumbling wall, the noble tower and portal, the delicately sculptured
pillars, cornices, and arches, enable us to build up the whole, just as
Cuvier made out an entire skeleton from the examination of a single
bone.

These grand architectural fragments have not been neglected by the
learned. Unfortunately, and exceptionally, La Charité possesses
neither public library nor museum, but at Nevers the traveller would
surely find a copy of Prosper Merimée's "Notes Archéologiques" in which
is a minute account of these.

Alike without and within the ruins show a medley of styles and richest
ornamentation.

[Illustration]
The superb north-west tower, that forms so striking an object from the
river, is said to be in the Burgundian style; rather should we put
it after a Burgundian style, so varied and heterogeneous are the
churches coming under this category.

Again, the guide books inform us that the open space between this
tower and the church was occupied by the narthex, a vast outer portico
of ancient Burgundian churches used for the reception of penitents,
catechumens, and strangers. All interested in ecclesiastical architecture
should visit the abbey church of Vézelay, which possesses a magnificent
narthex of two storeys, restored by the late Viollet le Duc. Vézelay,
by the way, may be easily reached from La Charité.

Next to the elaborate sculptures of this grand tower, will be noted
the superb colour of the building stone, carved out of deep-hued gold
it looks under the burning blue sky.

And of a piece are arch, portico and column, one and all helping us to
reconstruct the once mighty abbey, home of a brotherhood so powerful as
to necessitate disciplinary measures on the part of the Pope.

The interior of the church shows the same elaborateness of detail, and the
same mixture of styles, the Romanesque-Burgundian predominating, so,
at least, affirm authorities.

The idler and lover of the picturesque will not find time hang heavy
on his hands here. Very sweet are the riverside views, no matter
on which side we obtain them, and the quaintest little staircases of
streets run from base to summit of the pyramidally-built town.
A climb of a quarter of an hour takes us to an admirable coign of
vantage just above the abbey church, and commanding a view of Sancerre
and the river. That little town, so splendidly placed, is celebrated
for its eight months' defence as a Huguenot stronghold.

La Charité, with most mediaeval towns, was fortified, one old city gate
still remaining.

To-day, as when that charming writer, Émile Montégut visited the
place more than a generation ago, the townspeople ply their crafts and
domestic callings abroad. In fine weather, no work that can possibly
be done in the open air is done within four walls. Another curious feature
of these engaging old streets, is the number of blacksmiths' shops. It
would seem as if all the horses, mules, and donkeys of the Nièvre were
brought hither to be shod, the smithy fires keeping up a perpetual
illumination.

A third and still more noteworthy point is the infrequency--absence,
I am inclined to say--of cabarets. Soberest of the sober, orderliest
of the orderly, appear these good folks of La Charité, les Caritates as
they are called, nor, apparently, has tradition demoralised them. One
might expect that a town dedicated to the virtue of almsgiving
would abound in beggars. Not one did we see.

CHAPTER X.

POUGUES.

If an ugly name could kill a place, Pougues must surely have been ruined
as a health resort centuries ago. Coming, too, after that soothing,
harmoniously named La Charité, could any configuration of letters grate
more harshly on the ear? Truth to tell, my travelling companion and
myself had a friendly little altercation about Pougues. It seemed impossible
to believe pleasant things of a town so labelled. But the reputation of
Pougues dates from Hercules and Julius Caesar, both heroes, it is
said, having had recourse to its mineral springs!

Coming from legend to history, we find that Pougues, or, at least, the
waters of Pougues, were patronised by the least objectionable son of
Catherine de Medicis, Henri II. of France and runaway King of Poland.
Imputing his disorders to sorcery, he was thus reassured by a sensible
physician named Pidoux: "Sire, the malady from which you suffer is due
to no witchcraft. Lead a quiet life for ten weeks, and drink the water
of Pougues." The best king France ever had, namely, the gay Gascon, and
after him Louis XIII., by no means one of the worst, had recourse to
Pougues waters; also that arch-voluptuary and arch-despot, the Sun-King,
who imagined that even syntax and prosody must bow to his will. [Footnote:
One day the young king ordered his carriage, saying, "_mon_ carrosse,"
instead of "_ma_ carrosse," the French word being derived from the
Italian feminine, _carrozza_.

On being gently corrected, the king flew into a passion, declaring that
masculine he had called it, and masculine it should remain, which it has
done to this day, so the story runs.

Let the Republic look to it!] And Madame de Sevigné--for whom, however, I
have scant love, for did she not hail the revocation of the Edict of
Nantes?--Madame de Sevigné honoured Pougues with an epigram.

A second Purgatory she styled the douches, and, doubtless, in those
non-washing days, a second Purgatory it would have been to most folks.

To Pougues, nevertheless, we went, and if these notes induce the more
enterprising of my countrypeople to do the same next summer, they are
not likely to repent of the experiment. Never, indeed, was a little
Eden of coolness, freshness, and greenery more abominably used by
its sponsors, whilst the name of so many French townlings are a
poem in themselves!

From a view of sky blue waters and smooth brown sands we were transported
to a world of emerald green verdure and richest foliage, interpenetrated
with golden light. On this 14th of September the warmth and
dazzlingness of mid-summer still reigned at Pougues; and the scenery
in which we suddenly found ourselves, bosquets, dells, and glades,
with all the charm but without the savageness of the forest, recalled
the loveliest lines of the laziest poet:--
"Was naught around but images of rest, And flowery beds, that
slumberous influence kest[1], Sleep-soothing groves and quiet lawns
between, From poppies breathed; and beds of pleasant green."
[Footnote 1: Cast]
A drive of a few minutes had landed us in the heart of this little
Paradise, baths and Casino standing in the midst of park-like
grounds.
Apparently Pougues, that is to say, the Pougues-les-Eaux of later
days, has been cut out of natural woodland, the Casino gardens and
its surroundings being rich in forest trees of superb growth and
great variety. The wealth of foliage gives this new fashionable
little watering-place an enticingly rural appearance, nor is the
attraction of water wholly wanting. To quote once more a most
quotable, if little read, poet:--
"Meantime, unnumbered glittering streamlets played, And hurled
everywhere their water's sheen, That, as they bickered through the
sunny glade, Though restless still, themselves a lulling murmur
made."
A pretty little lake, animated with swans, varies the woodland
scenery, and tropical birds in an aviary lend brilliant bits of
colour. The usual accessories of a health resort are, of course,
here--reading room, concert hall, theatre, and other attractions,
rapidly turning the place into a lesser Vichy. The number and
magnificence of the hotels, the villas and _cottages_, that have
sprung up on every side, bespeak the popularity of Pougues-les-Eaux,
as it is now styled, the surname adding more dignity than harmoniousness.
One advantage Pougues possesses over its rivals, is position. At
Aix-les-Bains, Plombières, Salins, and how many other inland spas,
you are literally wedged in between shelving hills. If you want to
enjoy wide horizons, and anything like a breeze, you must get well
outside the town. Never in hot, dusty, crowded cities have I felt
so half-suffocated as at the two first named places.
Pougues, on the contrary, lies in a broad expanse of beautifully
varied woodland and champaign, no more appropriate site conceivable
for the now popular air-cure. "Pougues-les-Eaux, Cure d'Eau and
Cure d'Air," is now its proud title, folks flocking hither, not
only to imbibe its delicious, ice-cold, sparkling waters, but to
drink in its highly nourishing air. The iron-gaseous waters resemble
in properties those of Spa and Vichy. From one to five tumblers are
ordered a day, according to the condition of the drinker, a little
stroll between each dose being advisable. With regard to the air-cure,
visitors are reminded that at Pougues they find the four kinds of
walking exercise recommended by a German specialist, namely, that
on quite level ground; secondly, a very gradual climb; thirdly, a
somewhat steeper bit of up-hill; and, fourthly, the really arduous
ascent of Mont Givre. In order to entice health-seekers, all kinds
of gratifications await them on the summit, restaurant, dairy,
reading room, tennis court, and croquet ground, to say nothing of
a panorama almost unrivalled in eastern France. We have, indeed,
climbed the Eiffel Tower, in other words, are on a level with that
final stage from which floats the Tricolour.These steps were prudent, and whilst his credit increased at court, order
was reestablished from the defiles of the Perrebia of Pindus to the vale
of Tempe and to the pass of Thermopylae.

These exploits of the provost-marshal, amplified by Oriental
exaggeration, justified the ideas which were entertained of the capacity
of Ali Pacha.  Impatient of celebrity, he took good care himself to
spread his fame, relating his prowess to all comers, making presents to
the sultan's officers who came into his government, and showing
travellers his palace courtyard festooned with decapitated heads.  But
what chiefly tended to consolidate his power was the treasure which he
ceaselessly amassed by every means. He never struck for the mere pleasure
of striking, and the numerous victims of his proscriptions only perished
to enrich him.  His death sentences always fell on beys and wealthy
persons whom he wished to plunder.  In his eyes the axe was but an
instrument of fortune, and the executioner a tax-gatherer.


CHAPTER III

Having governed Thessaly in this manner during several years, Ali found
himself in a position to acquire the province of Janina, the possession
of which, by making him master of Epirus, would enable him to crush all
his enemies and to reign supreme over the three divisions of Albania.

But before he could succeed in this, it was necessary to dispose of the
pacha already in possession.  Fortunately for Ali, the latter was a weak
and indolent man, quite incapable of struggling against so formidable a
rival; and his enemy speedily conceived and put into execution a plan
intended to bring about the fulfilment of his desires.  He came to terms
with the same Armatolians whom he had formerly treated so harshly, and
let them loose, provided with arms and ammunition, on the country which
he wished to obtain.  Soon the whole region echoed with stories of
devastation and pillage.  The pacha, unable to repel the incursions of
these mountaineers, employed the few troops he had in oppressing the
inhabitants of the plains, who, groaning under both extortion and rapine,
vainly filled the air with their despairing cries.  Ali hoped that the
Divan, which usually judged only after the event, seeing that Epirus lay
desolate, while Thessaly flourished under his own administration, would,
before long, entrust himself with the government of both provinces, when
a family incident occurred, which for a time diverted the course of his
political manoeuvres.

For a long time his mother Kamco had suffered from an internal cancer,
the result of a life of depravity.  Feeling that her end drew near, she
despatched messenger after messenger, summoning her son to her bedside.
He started, but arrived too late, and found only his sister Chainitza
mourning over the body of their mother, who had expired in her arms an
hour previously.  Breathing unutterable rage and pronouncing horrible
imprecations against Heaven, Kamco had commanded her children, under pain
of her dying curse, to carry out her last wishes faithfully.  After
having long given way to their grief, Ali and Chainitza read together the
document which contained these commands.  It ordained some special
assassinations, mentioned sundry villages which, some day; were to be
given to the flames, but ordered them most especially, as soon as
possible, to exterminate the inhabitants of Kormovo and Kardiki, from
whom she had endured the last horrors of slavery.

Then, after advising her children to remain united, to enrich their
soldiers, and to count as nothing people who were useless to them, Kamco
ended by commanding them to send in her name a pilgrim to Mecca, who
should deposit an offering on the tomb of the Prophet for the repose of
her soul.  Having perused these last injunctions, Ali and Chainitza
joined hands, and over the inanimate remains of their departed mother
swore to accomplish her dying behests.

The pilgrimage came first under consideration.  Now a pilgrim can only be
sent as proxy to Mecca, or offerings be made at the tomb of Medina, at
the expense of legitimately acquired property duly sold for the purpose.
The brother and sister made a careful examination of the family estates,
and after long hunting, thought they had found the correct thing in a
small property of about fifteen hundred francs income, inherited from
their great-grandfather, founder of the Tepel-Enian dynasty.  But further
investigations disclosed that even this last resource had been forcibly
taken from a Christian, and the idea of a pious pilgrimage and a sacred
offering had to be given up. They then agreed to atone for the
impossibility of expiation by the grandeur of their vengeance, and swore
to pursue without ceasing and to destroy without mercy all enemies of
their family.

The best mode of carrying out this terrible and self-given pledge was
that Ali should resume his plans of aggrandizement exactly where he had
left them.  He succeeded in acquiring the pachalik of Janina, which was
granted him by the Porte under the title of "arpalik," or conquest.  It
was an old custom, natural to the warlike habits of the Turks, to bestow
the Government provinces or towns affecting to despise the authority of
the Grand Seigneur on whomsoever succeeded in controlling them, and
Janina occupied this position.  It was principally inhabited by
Albanians, who had an enthusiastic admiration for anarchy, dignified by
them with the name of "Liberty," and who thought themselves independent
in proportion to the disturbance they succeeded in making.  Each lived
retired as if in a mountain castle, and only went out in order to
participate in the quarrels of his faction in the forum.  As for the
pachas, they were relegated to the old castle on the lake, and there was
no difficulty in obtaining their recall.

Consequently there was a general outcry at the news of Ali Pacha's
nomination, and it was unanimously agreed that a man whose character and
power were alike dreaded must not be admitted within the walls of Janina.
Ali, not choosing to risk his forces in an open battle with a warlike
population, and preferring a slower and safer way to a short and
dangerous one, began by pillaging the villages and farms belonging to his
most powerful opponents.  His tactics succeeded, and the very persons who
had been foremost in vowing hatred to the son of Kamco and who had sworn
most loudly that they would die rather than submit to the tyrant, seeing
their property daily ravaged, and impending ruin if hostilities
continued, applied themselves to procure peace.  Messengers were sent
secretly to Ali, offering to admit him into Janina if he would undertake
to respect the lives and property of his new allies.  Ali promised
whatever they asked, and entered the town by night.  His first proceeding
was to appear before the cadi, whom he compelled to register and proclaim
his firmans of investiture.

In the same year in which he arrived at this dignity, really the desire
and object of Ali's whole life, occurred also the death of the Sultan
Abdul Hamid, whose two sons, Mustapha and Mahmoud, were confined in the
Old Seraglio.  This change of rulers, however, made no difference to Ali;
the peaceful Selim, exchanging the prison to which his nephews were now
relegated, for the throne of their father, confirmed the Pacha of Janina
in the titles, offices, and privileges which had been conferred on him.

Established in his position by this double investiture, Ali applied
himself to the definite settlement of his claims.  He was now fifty years
of age, and was at the height of his intellectual development: experience
had been his teacher, and the lesson of no single event had been lost
upon him.  An uncultivated but just and penetrating mind enabled him to
comprehend facts, analyse causes, and anticipate results; and as his
heart never interfered with the deductions of his rough intelligence, he
had by a sort of logical sequence formulated an inflexible plan of
action.  This man, wholly ignorant, not only of the ideas of history but
also of the great names of Europe, had succeeded in divining, and as a
natural consequence of his active and practical character, in also
realising Macchiavelli, as is amply shown in the expansion of his
greatness and the exercise of his power.  Without faith in God, despising
men, loving and thinking only of himself, distrusting all around him,
audacious in design, immovable in resolution, inexorable in execution,
merciless in vengeance, by turns insolent, humble, violent, or supple
according to circumstances, always and entirely logical in his egotism,
he is Cesar Borgia reborn as a Mussulman; he is the incarnate ideal of
Florentine policy, the Italian prince converted into a satrap.

Age had as yet in no way impaired Ali's strength and activity, and
nothing prevented his profiting by the advantages of his position.
Already possessing great riches, which every day saw increasing under his
management, he maintained a large body of warlike and devoted troops, he
united the offices of Pacha of two tails of Janina, of Toparch of
Thessaly, and of Provost Marshal of the Highway.  As influential aids
both to his reputation for general ability and the terror of his' arms,
and his authority as ruler, there stood by his side two sons, Mouktar and
Veli, offspring of his wife Emineh, both fully grown and carefully
educated in the principles of their father.

Ali's first care, once master of Janina, was to annihilate the beys
forming the aristocracy of the place, whose hatred he was well aware of,
and whose plots he dreaded.  He ruined them all, banishing many and
putting others to death.  Knowing that he must make friends to supply the
vacancy caused by the destruction of his foes, he enriched with the spoil
the Albanian mountaineers in his pay, known by the name of Skipetars, on
whom he conferred most of the vacant employments.  But much too prudent
to allow all the power to fall into the hands of a single caste, although
a foreign one to the capital, he, by a singular innovation, added to and
mixed with them an infusion of Orthodox Greeks, a skilful but despised
race, whose talents he could use without having to dread their influence.
While thus endeavouring on one side to destroy the power of his enemies
by depriving them of both authority and wealth, and on the other to
consolidate his own by establishing a firm administration, he neglected
no means of acquiring popularity.  A fervent disciple of Mahomet when
among fanatic Mussulmans, a materialist with the Bektagis who professed a
rude pantheism, a Christian among the Greeks, with whom he drank to the
health of the Holy Virgin, he made everywhere partisans by flattering the
idea most in vogue.  But if he constantly changed both opinions and
language when dealing with subordinates whom it was desirable to win
over, Ali towards his superiors had one only line of conduct which he
never transgressed. Obsequious towards the Sublime Porte, so long as it
did not interfere with his private authority, he not only paid with
exactitude all dues to the sultan, to whom he even often advanced money,
but he also pensioned the most influential ministers.  He was bent on
having no enemies who could really injure his power, and he knew that in
an absolute government no conviction can hold its own against the power
of gold.

Having thus annihilated the nobles, deceived the multitude with plausible
words and lulled to sleep the watchfulness of the Divan, Ali resolved to
turn his arms against Kormovo.  At the foot of its rocks he had, in
youth, experienced the disgrace of defeat, and during thirty nights Kamco
and Chainitza had endured all horrors of outrage at the hands of its
warriors.  Thus the implacable pacha had a twofold wrong to punish, a
double vengeance to exact.

This time, profiting by experience, he called in the aid of treachery.
Arrived at the citadel, he negotiated, promised an amnesty, forgiveness
for all, actual rewards for some.  The inhabitants, only too happy to
make peace with so formidable an adversary, demanded and obtained a truce
to settle the conditions. This was exactly what Ali expected, and
Kormovo, sleeping on the faith of the treaty, was suddenly attacked and
taken.  All who did not escape by flight perished by the sword in the
darkness, or by the hand of the executioner the next morning.  Those who
had offered violence aforetime to Ali's mother and sister were carefully
sought for, and whether convicted or merely accused, were impaled on
spits, torn with redhot pincers, and slowly roasted between two fires;
the women were shaved and publicly scourged, and then sold as slaves.

This vengeance, in which all the nobles of the province not yet entirely
ruined were compelled to assist, was worth a decisive victory to Ali.
Towns, cantons, whole districts, overwhelmed with terror, submitted
without striking a blow, and his name, joined to the recital of a
massacre which ranked as a glorious exploit in the eyes of this savage
people, echoed like thunder from valley to valley and mountain to
mountain.  In order that all surrounding him might participate in the joy
of his success Ali gave his army a splendid festival.  Of unrivalled
activity, and, Mohammedan only in name, he himself led the chorus in the
Pyrrhic and Klephtic dances, the ceremonials of warriors and of robbers.
There was no lack of wine, of sheep, goats, and lambs roasted before
enormous fires; made of the debris of the ruined city; antique games of
archery and wrestling were celebrated, and the victors received their
prizes from the hand of their chief.  The plunder, slaves, and cattle
were then shared, and the Tapygae, considered as the lowest of the four
tribes composing the race of Skipetars, and ranking as the refuse of the
army, carried off into the mountains of Acroceraunia, doors, windows,
nails, and even the tiles of the houses, which were then all surrendered
to the flames.

However, Ibrahim, the successor and son-in-law of Kurd Pacha, could not
see with indifference part of his province invaded by his ambitious
neighbour.  He complained and negotiated, but obtaining no satisfaction,
called out an army composed of Skipetars of Toxid, all Islamites, and
gave the command to his brother Sepher, Bey of Avlone. Ali, who had
adopted the policy of opposing alternately the Cross to the Crescent and
the Crescent to the Cross, summoned to his aid the Christian chiefs of
the mountains, who descended into the plains at the head of their
unconquered troops.  As is generally the case in Albania, where war is
merely an excuse for brigandage, instead of deciding matters by a pitched
battle, both sides contented themselves with burning villages, hanging
peasants, and carrying off cattle.

Also, in accordance with the custom of the country, the women interposed
between the combatants, and the good and gentle Emineh laid proposals of
peace before Ibrahim Pacha, to whose apathetic disposition a state of war
was disagreeable, and who was only too happy to conclude a fairly
satisfactory negotiation.  A family alliance was arranged, in virtue of
which Ali retained his conquests, which were considered as the marriage
portion of Ibrahim's eldest daughter, who became the wife of Ali's eldest
son, Mouktar.

It was hoped that this peace might prove permanent, but the marriage
which sealed the treaty was barely concluded before a fresh quarrel broke
out between the pachas.  Ali, having wrung such important concessions
from the weakness of his neighbour, desired to obtain yet more.  But
closely allied to Ibrahim were two persons gifted with great firmness of
character and unusual ability, whose position gave them great influence.
They were his wife Zaidee, and his brother Sepher, who had been in
command during the war just terminated.  As both were inimical to Ali,
who could not hope to corrupt them, the latter resolved to get rid of
them.

Having in the days of his youth been intimate with Kurd Pacha, Ali had
endeavoured to seduce his daughter, already the wife of Ibrahim. Being
discovered by the latter in the act of scaling the wall of his harem, he
had been obliged to fly the country.  Wishing now to ruin the woman whom
he had formerly tried to corrupt, Ali sought to turn his former crime to
the success of a new one.  Anonymous letters, secretly sent to Ibrahim,
warned him that his wife intended to poison him, in order to be able
later to marry Ali Pacha, whom she had always loved.  In a country like
Turkey, where to suspect a woman is to accuse her, and accusation is
synonymous with condemnation, such a calumny might easily cause the death
of the innocent Zaidee.  But if Ibrahim was weak and indolent, he was
also confiding and generous. He took the letters; to his wife, who had no
difficulty in clearing herself, and who warned him against the writer,
whose object and plots she easily divined, so that this odious conspiracy
turned only to Ali's discredit.  But the latter was not likely either to
concern himself as to what others said or thought about him or to be
disconcerted by a failure.  He simply turned his machinations against his
other enemy, and arranged matters this time so as to avoid a failure.

He sent to Zagori, a district noted for its doctors, for a quack who
undertook to poison Sepher Bey on condition of receiving forty purses.
When all was settled, the miscreant set out for Berat, and was
immediately accused by Ali of evasion, and his wife and children were
arrested as accomplices and detained, apparently as hostages for the good
behaviour of their husband and father, but really as pledges for his
silence when the crime should have been accomplished.  Sepher Bey,
informed of this by letters which Ali wrote to the Pacha of Berat
demanding the fugitive, thought that a man persecuted by his enemy would
be faithful to himself, and took the supposed runaway into his service.
The valley of the Loing abounds in captivating spots, Moret-sur-Loing
bearing the palm. Over the ancient town, bird-like broods a majestic
church, as out-spread wings its wide expanse of roof, while below by
translucent depths and foliage richly varied, stretch quarters old
and new, the canal intersecting the river at right angles. Lovely as
is the river on which all who choose may spend long summer days, the canal
to my thinking is lovelier still. Straight as an arrow it saunters
between avenues of poplar, the lights and shadows of wood and water,
the sunburnt, stalwart barge folk, their huge gondoliers affording
endless pictures. Hard as is undoubtedly the life of the rope tower,
rude as may appear this amphibious existence, there are cheerful sides
to the picture. Many of these floating habitations possess a fireside
nook cosy as that of a Parisian concierge, I was never tired of
strolling along the canal and watching the barge folk. One day a friend
and myself found a large barge laden with coal at the head of the canal,
the huge dark framework and its sombre burden lighted up with touches
of grace and colour. At the farther end of the vessel was hung a cage
of canaries, at the other end was a stand of pot-flowers, geraniums
and petunias in full bloom and all the more brilliant by virtue of contrast.
A neighbour of the bargeman, a bright, intelligent woman, brown as a
gipsy but well-spoken and of tidy appearance, invited us to enter. Imagine
the neatest, prettiest little room in the world, parlour, bedchamber
and kitchen in one, every object so placed as to make the most of available
space.

On a small side-table--and of course under such circumstances each article
must be sizable--stood a sewing machine, in the corner was a bedstead
with exquisitely clean bedding, in another a tiny cooking stove. Vases
of flowers, framed pictures and ornamental quicksilver balls had been
found place for, this bargewoman's home aptly illustrating Shakespeare's
adage--"Order gives all things view." The brisk, weather-beaten mistress
now came up, no little gratified by our interest and our praises.

"You ladies would perhaps like to make a little journey with me?" she
asked, "nothing easier, we start to-morrow morning at six o'clock for
Nevers, you could take the train back."
Never perhaps in our lives had myself and my companion received an
invitation so out of the way, so bewilderingly tempting! And we felt
too, with a pang, that never again in all probability should we receive
such another. But on this especial day we were not staying at Moret, only
running over for the afternoon from our headquarters at Bourron.
Acceptance was thus hemmed round with small impediments. And by way of
consolation, next morning the glorious weather broke. A downpour recalling
our own lakeland would anyhow have kept us ashore.

"Another time then!" had said the kind hostess of the barge at
parting.
She seemed as sorry as ourselves that the little project she had mooted
so cordially could not be carried out.

The Loing canal joins the Seine at Saint Mammes, a few kilomètres lower
down, continuing its course of thirty kilomètres to Bleneau in the Nièvre.
Canal life in Eastern France is a characteristic feature, the whole
region being intersected by a network of waterways, those _chemins
qui marchent_, or walking roads as Michelet picturesquely calls them.
And strolling on the banks of the canal here you may be startled by
an astonishing sight, you see folks walking, or apparently walking, on
water. Standing bolt upright on a tiny raft, carefully maintaining their
balance, country people are towed from one side to the other.

These suburban and riverside quarters are full of charm. The soft
reds and browns of the houses, the old-world architecture and romantic
sites, tempt an artist at every turn. And all in love with a Venetian
existence may here find it nearer home.

A few villas let furnished during the summer months have little lawns
winding down to the water's edge and a boat moored alongside. Thus
their happy inmates can spend hot, lazy days on the river.

Turning our backs on the canal, by way of ivy-mantled walls, ancient mills
and tumbledown houses, we reach the Porte du Pont or Gate of the
Bridge. With other towns of the period, Moret was fortified. The
girdle of walls is broken and dilapidated, whilst firm as when
erected in the fourteenth century still stand the city gates.
Of the two the Porte du Pont is the least imposing and ornamental,
but it possesses a horrifying interest. In an upper storey is
preserved one of those man-cages said to have been invented for the
gratification of Louis XI, that strange tyrant to whose ears were
equally acceptable the shrieks of his tortured victims and the apt
repartee of ready-witted subjects.The pacha, eager to finish, and finding his
hands insufficient, caught a burning log from the hearth, struck his
nephew in the face with it, felled him to the ground, and completed his
bloody task.  This accomplished, Ali called for help with loud cries, and
when his guards entered he showed the bruises he had received and the
blood with which he was covered, declaring that he had killed in
self-defence a villain who endeavoured to assassinate him.  He ordered
the body to be searched, and a letter was found in a pocket which Ali had
himself just placed there, which purported to give the details of the
pretended conspiracy.

As Murad's brother was seriously compromised by this letter, he also was
immediately seized, and strangled without any pretence of trial. The
whole palace rejoiced, thanks were rendered to Heaven by one of those
sacrifices of animals still occasionally made in the East to celebrate an
escape from great danger, and Ali released some prisoners in order to
show his gratitude to Providence for having protected him from so
horrible a crime.  He received congratulatory visits, and composed an
apology attested by a judicial declaration by the cadi, in which the
memory of Murad and his brother was declared accursed.  Finally,
commissioners, escorted by a strong body of soldiers, were sent to seize
the property of the two brothers, because, said the decree, it was just
that the injured should inherit the possessions of his would-be
assassins.

Thus was exterminated the only family capable of opposing the Pacha of
Janina, or which could counterbalance his influence over the weak Ibrahim
of Berat.  The latter, abandoned by his brave defenders, and finding
himself at the mercy of his enemy, was compelled to submit to what he
could not prevent, and protested only by tears against these crimes,
which seemed to herald a terrible future for himself.

As for Emineh, it is said that from the date of this catastrophe she
separated herself almost entirely from her blood-stained husband, and
spent her life in the recesses of the harem, praying as a Christian both
for the murderer and his victims.  It is a relief, in the midst of this
atrocious saturnalia to encounter this noble and gentle character, which
like a desert oasis, affords a rest to eyes wearied with the
contemplation of so much wickedness and treachery.

Ali lost in her the guardian angel who alone could in any way restrain
his violent passions.  Grieved at first by the withdrawal of the wife
whom hitherto he had loved exclusively, he endeavoured in vain to regain
her affection; and then sought in new vices compensation for the
happiness he had lost, and gave himself up to sensuality.  Ardent in
everything, he carried debauchery to a monstrous extent, and as if his
palaces were not large enough for his desires, he assumed various
disguises; sometimes in order to traverse the streets by night in search
of the lowest pleasures; sometimes penetrating by day into churches and
private houses seeking for young men and maidens remarkable for their
beauty, who were then carried off to his harem.

whispered my brother.

"Sees you; yes, not being blind he couldn't help it. Everybody in the
Cathedral sees you; and they very naturally resent the sight. Come away;
you're making the Bishop nervous."
It really was most annoying. There he stood, so close that we could almost
touch him, and yet separated from us by a gulf only to be bridged by the
end of his burial service.

The Doctor became illogical and childish about it. When I had dragged him
away from these last sad rites, he gave it as his opinion that any other
bishop would have stopped, just for a moment at least, and been
friendly and enthusiastic, if only in an undertone.

"He may get thousands of opportunities to bury people, but he will
never have a chance of seeing you again," said my brother. Then he
added, as an afterthought, "And very probably you will never get
another opportunity of talking to an Irish bishop."
[Illustration: "WE MET PODBURY."]

After that he sneered at the local medical practitioner, and said that
likely enough the deceased would not have died at all in proper
hands.

Then a thought struck me, the horror of which reduced my brother to absolute
despair. I said:

"Perhaps the Bishop is interring Podbury. In that case everybody you know
on this island will be busy, and we shan't get any hospitality, or
punch, or anything."
"Just my luck if he is," answered the Doctor gloomily. He then kept
absolute silence for half-an-hour, during which time we walked to the
Roseau River and beheld many black laundresses out in mid-stream
washing clothes. Turning from this spectacle, he spoke again and said:

"Our present state of suspense is destroying me.

I've a terrible presentiment that they _were_ burying Podbury. If so,
we're done all round. I'm going right away to Podbury's now. I shall see
in a moment by the blinds if the worst has happened."
We sought out Podbury's desolate home, and the Doctor asked bitterly
why Providence should have snatched away one whose skill in the
matter of rum punch was a household word. I said:
"Try and feel hopeful. We cannot yet be absolutely certain that he
has gone."
And then we met Podbury in the Market Place. He was thoroughly
alive, and apparently in good health.
"Ah, Doctor!" he exclaimed, "back again. Glad to see you. How are
the boys on the 'Rhine?' Who's your friend?"
I was made known to Podbury, and explained how the sight of him had
turned our mourning into joy, and how I had come out from England
as much to taste his celebrated rum punch as anything else. He
appeared gratified at this, and led the way to his house.
[Illustration: "'MAGNIFICENT!'"]
We asked him who the Bishop was burying, and he did not even know.
He said:

"A nigger, for certain.Terrified by the
noise; and at the sight of her infuriated husband, Emineh fell into
violent convulsions, and shortly expired.  Thus perished the daughter of
Capelan Pacha, wife of Ali Tepeleni, and mother of Mouktar and Veli, who,
doomed to live surrounded by evil, yet remained virtuous and good.

Her death caused universal mourning throughout Albania, and produced a
not less deep impression on the mind of her murderer.  Emineh's spectre
pursued him in his pleasures, in the council chamber, in the hours of
night.  He saw her, he heard her, and would awake, exclaiming, "my wife!
my wife!--It is my wife!--Her eyes are angry; she threatens me!--Save me!
Mercy!"  For more than ten years Ali never dared to sleep alone.


CHAPTER IV

In December, the Suliots, decimated by battle, worn by famine,
discouraged by treachery, were obliged to capitulate.  The treaty gave
them leave to go where they would, their own mountains excepted. The
unfortunate tribe divided into two parts, the one going towards Parga,
the other towards Prevesa.  Ali gave orders for the destruction of both,
notwithstanding the treaty.

The Parga division was attacked in its march, and charged by a numerous
body of Skipetars.  Its destruction seemed imminent, but instinct
suddenly revealed to the ignorant mountaineers the one manoeuvre which
might save them.  They formed a square, placing old men, women, children,
and cattle in the midst, and, protected by this military formation,
entered Parga in full view of the cut-throats sent to pursue them.

Less fortunate was the Prevesa division, which, terrified by a sudden and
unexpected attack, fled in disorder to a Greek convent called Zalongos.
But the gate was soon broken down, and the unhappy Suliots massacred to
the last man.

The women, whose tents had been pitched on the summit of a lofty rock,
beheld the terrible carnage which destroyed their defenders. Henceforth
their only prospect was that of becoming the slaves of those who had just
slaughtered their husbands and brothers.  An heroic resolution spared
them this infamy; they joined hands, and chanting their national songs,
moved in a solemn dance round the rocky platform.  As the song ended,
they uttered a prolonged and piercing cry, and cast themselves and their
children down into the profound abyss beneath.

There were still some Suliots left in their country when Ali Pacha took
possession of it.  These were all taken and brought to Janina, and their
sufferings were the first adornments of the festival made for the army.
Every soldier's imagination was racked for the discovery of new tortures,
and the most original among them had the privilege of themselves carrying
out their inventions.

There were some who, having had their noses and ears cut off, were
compelled to eat them raw, dressed as a salad.  One young man was scalped
until the skin fell back upon his shoulders, then beaten round the court
of the seraglio for the pacha's entertainment, until at length a lance
was run through his body and he was cast on the funeral pile.  Many were
boiled alive and their flesh then thrown to the dogs.

From this time the Cross has disappeared from the Selleid mountains, and
the gentle prayer of Christ no longer wakes the echoes of Suli.

During the course of this war, and shortly after the death of Emineh,
another dismal drama was enacted in the pacha's family, whose active
wickedness nothing seemed to weary.  The scandalous libertinism of both
father and sons had corrupted all around as well as themselves. This
demoralisation brought bitter fruits for all alike: the subjects endured
a terrible tyranny; the masters sowed among themselves distrust, discord,
and hatred.  The father wounded his two sons by turns in their tenderest
affections, and the sons avenged themselves by abandoning their father in
the hour of danger.

There was in Janina a woman named Euphrosyne, a niece of the archbishop,
married to one of the richest Greek merchants, and noted for wit and
beauty.  She was already the mother of two children, when Mouktar became
enamoured of her, and ordered her to come to his palace.  The unhappy
Euphrosyne, at once guessing his object, summoned a family council to
decide what should be done.  All agreed that there was no escape, and
that her husband's life was in danger, on account of the jealousy of his
terrible rival.  He fled the city that same night, and his wife
surrendered herself to Mouktar, who, softened by her charms, soon
sincerely loved her, and overwhelmed her with presents and favours.
Things were in this position when Mouktar was obliged to depart on an
important expedition.

Scarcely had he started before his wives complained to Ali that
Euphrosyne usurped their rights and caused their husband to neglect them.
Ali, who complained greatly of his sons' extravagance, and regretted the
money they squandered, at once struck a blow which was both to enrich
himself and increase the terror of his name.

One night he appeared by torchlight, accompanied by his guards, at
Euphrosyne's house.  Knowing his cruelty and avarice, she sought to
disarm one by gratifying the other: she collected her money and jewels
and laid them at Ali's feet with a look of supplication.

"These things are only my own property, which you restore," said he,
taking possession of the rich offering.  "Can you give back the heart of
Mouktar, which you have stolen?"

Euphrosyne besought him by his paternal feelings, for the sake of his son
whose love had been her misfortune and was now her only crime, to spare a
mother whose conduct had been otherwise irreproachable.  But her tears
and pleadings produced no effect on Ali, who ordered her to be taken,
loaded with fetters and covered with a piece of sackcloth, to the prison
of the seraglio.

If it were certain that there was no hope for the unhappy Euphrosyne, one
trusted that she might at least be the only victim.  But Ali, professing
to follow the advice of some severe reformers who wished to restore
decent morality, arrested at the same time fifteen ladies belonging to
the best Christian families in Janina.  A Wallachian, named Nicholas
Janco, took the opportunity to denounce his own wife, who was on the
point of becoming a mother, as guilty of adultery, and handed her also
over to the pacha.  These unfortunate women were brought before Ali to
undergo a trial of which a sentence of death was the foregone conclusion.
Neither the Bishop nor Podbury has invited us, or knows we are here
at all; but that is a sort of detail which counts for nothing in foreign
parts.

Dominica is very beautiful, with the same beauty as many other islands
already mentioned. Great wooded hills rise, peak upon peak, to the
clouds, and between them lie deep gorges and fertile ravines. The margins
of the sea are fringed with palms; Roseau itself lies glimmering
upon the shore, with white walls and red and grey roofs.Mouktar was returning from his expedition when a courier from his brother
Veli brought him a letter informing him of these events.  He opened it.
"Euphrosyne!" he cried, and, seizing one of his pistols, fired it at the
messenger, who fell dead at his feet,--"Euphrosyne, behold thy first
victim!"  Springing on his horse, he galloped towards Janina.  His guards
followed at a distance, and the inhabitants of all the villages he passed
fled at his approach.  He paid no attention to them, but rode till his
horse fell dead by the lake which had engulfed Euphrosyne, and then,
taking a boat, he went to hide his grief and rage in his own palace.

Ali, caring little for passion which evaporated in tears and cries, sent
an order to Mouktar to appear before him at once.  "He will not kill
you," he remarked to his messenger, with a bitter smile.  The Treasure
dropped in too. He knew Podbury well, and Podbury regarded him as an
authority on punch. The liquid was presently placed before us.
Podbury showed pleasure when I said what I thought about it; but
he did not feel quite contented until he had expert's opinion.

"Magnificent!" the Treasure presently declared; "why it's equal to the
1890 brew--you remember."
Podbury's eye brightened at this allusion to one of his greatest past
triumphs. He tasted the punch himself, and admitted that it certainly
seemed "about right."Go, remember
what I have said."

Mouktar retired as submissively as if he had just received pardon for
some serious crime, and found no better consolation than to spend the
night with Veli in drinking and debauchery.  But a day was to come when
the brothers, alike outraged by their father, would plot and carry out a
terrible vengeance.

However, the Porte began to take umbrage at the continual aggrandisement
of the Pacha of Janina.  Not daring openly to attack so formidable a
vassal, the sultan sought by underhand means to diminish his power, and
under the pretext that Ali was becoming too old for the labour of so many
offices, the government of Thessaly was withdrawn from him, but, to show
that this was not done in enmity, the province was entrusted to his
nephew, Elmas Bey, son of Suleiman and Chainitza.

