                   [Footnote 115: At the place also where he encamped,
                   he solemnly celebrated the festival of the
                   Assumption [so called] of the Virgin Mary, a feast
                   observed, in the countries on the Continent in
                   communion with Rome, with great rejoicings and
                   religious ceremonies, in the present day.]

                   [Footnote 116: See Chronicler A, and St. Remy, p.
                   82, quoted in Nicolas' Agincourt.]

Henry resolved on laying siege to Harfleur, the inhabitants of which
seemed equally determined to resist him. The siege of Harfleur, which
commenced on Sunday, August 18, is described with great minuteness by
several writers. His brother, the Duke of Clarence, appears to have
held the most prominent place among Henry's officers; and much praise
is ascribed to him for his prowess and military talent. Stonewall Jackson
had seventeen thousand soldiers at his command.
The Yankees were fortified at Bath.

An attack was ordered, our regiment marched upon top of a mountain
overlooking the movements of both armies in the valley below. About 4 o'clock
one grand charge and rush was made, and the Yankees were routed
and skedaddled.

By some circumstance or other, Lieutenant J. Lee Bullock came in command
of the First Tennessee Regiment. But Lee was not a graduate of West
Point, you see.

The Federals had left some spiked batteries on the hill side, as we
were informed by an old citizen, and Lee, anxious to capture a battery,
gave the new and peculiar command of, "Soldiers, you are ordered
to go forward and capture a battery; just piroute up that hill; piroute,
march.
Forward, men; piroute carefully." The boys "pirouted" as best they could.
It may have been a new command, and not laid down in Hardee's or
Scott's tactics; but Lee was speaking plain English, and we understood
his meaning perfectly, and even at this late day I have no doubt
that every soldier who heard the command thought it a legal and
technical term used by military graduates to go forward and capture a
battery.

At this place (Bath), a beautiful young lady ran across the street.
I have seen many beautiful and pretty women in my life, but she was
the prettiest one I ever saw. Were you to ask any member of the First
Tennessee Regiment who was the prettiest woman he ever saw, he would
unhesitatingly answer that he saw her at Berkly Springs during the
war, and he would continue the tale, and tell you of Lee Bullock's
piroute and Stonewall Jackson's charge.

We rushed down to the big spring bursting out of the mountain side, and
it was hot enough to cook an egg. Never did I see soldiers more surprised.
The water was so hot we could not drink it.

The snow covered the ground and was still falling.

That night I stood picket on the Potomac with a detail of the Third
Arkansas Regiment. I remember how sorry I felt for the poor fellows,
because they had enlisted for the war, and we for only twelve months.

Before nightfall I took in every object and commenced my weary
vigils.
I had to stand all night. I could hear the rumblings of the Federal
artillery and wagons, and hear the low shuffling sound made by troops
on the march. The snow came pelting down as large as goose eggs. About
midnight the snow ceased to fall, and became quiet. Now and then the snow
would fall off the bushes and make a terrible noise. While I was
peering through the darkness, my eyes suddenly fell upon the outlines
of a man. The more I looked the more I was convinced that it was a
Yankee picket. I could see his hat and coat--yes, see his gun. I
was sure that it was a Yankee picket. What was I to do? The relief
was several hundred yards in the rear. The more I looked the more
sure I was.
At last a cold sweat broke out all over my body. Turkey bumps rose.
I summoned all the nerves and bravery that I could command, and
said:
"Halt! who goes there?" There being no response, I became resolute.
I did not wish to fire and arouse the camp, but I marched right up
to it and stuck my bayonet through and through it. It was a stump.Having enjoyed the satisfaction and benefit of his
society in life, now, when he was on the point of quitting this world
for ever, Henry never withdrew from his bed; but, watching him with
tender anxiety till the ministers of religion had solemnized the last
rite according to the prevailing practice of the church in those days,
even then, "in his own person," he continued to supply the wants of
sinking mortality, "with his own hands[118] wiping the chilled feet"
of his dying friend. The manuscript proceeds to say, that, when life
was extinct, with pious regard for his memory, Henry caused his body
to be conveyed to England, and to be honourably buried among the royal
corpses in Westminster.

                   [Footnote 117: Sloane MS. 1776.]

                   [Footnote 118: A very curious turn has been given
                   inadvertently to this circumstance by the
                   translation of the ecclesiastic's sentence, and the
                   comment upon it, now found in the Appendix to the
                   "Battle of Agincourt." "Rege præsente, pedes ejus
                   tergente post extremam unctionem propriis
                   manibus,"--words which can only be translated so as
                   to represent the King, "after extreme unction,
                   wiping the feet" of the Bishop,--the Editor of that
                   work, by the careless blunder of an amanuensis, or
                   some unaccountable accident, is made to render by
                   the strange sentence, "_covering_ his feet _with_
                   extreme unction;" and he is then led, as a comment
                   upon that text, to observe, that "the Bishop
                   received from Henry's own hand the last offices of
                   _religion_." Extreme unction, the last of the seven
                   sacraments of the see of Rome, was administered
                   doubtless by an attendant priest.]

Three days after this prelate's death, on Wednesday, September 18th,
an agreement to surrender on the following Sunday was entered      (p. 149)
into; the inhabitants of the town pledging themselves by a most solemn
oath to abide by the terms of the agreement. The ceremony on this
occasion must have had a very imposing effect. The King's chaplain,
Benedict Bishop of Bangor, in his pontifical dress, carried the
consecrated Host to the walls of the town, preceded by thirty-two
chaplains, each in full canonicals, and attended by as many esquires,
one of whom bore a lighted taper before each priest. I tell the above,
because it illustrates a part of many a private's recollections of
the war; in fact, a part of the hardships and suffering that they
go through.

One secret of Stonewall Jackson's success was that he was such a
strict disciplinarian.At the appointed hour, Henry, being dressed
in the robes of royalty, ascended a throne erected under a silk
pavilion on the top of the hill opposite to the town. All his peers
and great men were assembled around him. "Our King"[119] (says a
writer who was probably an eye-witness) "sat in his estate as royal as
did ever any King; and, as it is said, there never was a Christian
King so royal, neither so lordly, sat in his seat as did he." From
this seat to the town a passage was formed by the English soldiers,
through which the late governor, Sir Lionel Braquemont, the Lord de
Gaucourt, and others, with the Host borne before them, attended by (p. 150)
those who had sworn to observe the treaty, and by thirty-four of the
chief inhabitants, passed to Henry's presence, "who forgave them their
injustice in keeping his own town from him; and, having hospitably
entertained them, dismissed them courteously." The earth and hills and
trees were covered with snow, and the lightnings seemed to be playing
"King, King Canico" along its crusted surface. If it thundered
at all, it seemed to be between a groaning and a rumbling sound.

                   The trees and hills seemed white with livid fire.

                   I can remember that storm now as the grandest
                   picture that has ever made any impression on my
                   memory. As soon as it quit lightning, the
                   most blinding snow storm fell that I ever saw. It
                   fell so thick and fast that I got hot. I felt like
                   pulling off my coat. I was freezing. The winds
                   sounded like sweet music. I felt grand, glorious,
                   peculiar; beautiful things began to play and dance
                   around my head, and I supposed I must have dropped
                   to sleep or something, when I felt Schwartz grab
                   me, and give me a shake, and at the same time raised
                   his gun and fired, and yelled out at the top
                   of his voice, "Here is your mule."

The next instant a volley of minnie balls was scattering the snow all
around us. I tried to walk, but my pants and boots were stiff and
frozen, and the blood had ceased to circulate in my lower limbs.
But Schwartz kept on firing, and at every fire he would yell out,
"Yer is yer mool!" Pfifer could not speak English, and I reckon
he said "Here is your mule" in Dutch. About the same time we were hailed
from three Confederate officers, at full gallop right toward us, not
to shoot. And as they galloped up to us and thundered right across
the bridge, we discovered it was Stonewall Jackson and two of his
staff.
At the same time the Yankee cavalry charged us, and we, too, ran
back across the bridge.

STANDING PICKET ON THE POTOMAC
Leaving Winchester, we continued up the valley.
The night before the attack on Bath or Berkly Springs, there fell
the largest snow I ever saw.They were escorted by the English; and all   (p. 151)
persons belonging to the church, and the women and children, had a
present of five sous for their journey, and were permitted to dress
themselves in their best apparel, and carry each a moderate bundle
with them. It was forbidden to search the priests, and also the heads
or the bosoms of the women. At St. Aubon, about four miles from
Harfleur, they were entreated to refresh themselves with bread and
cheese and wine; at Lislebone the Marshal Boucicault received them,
and they were forwarded by water to Rouen. At Henry's invitation, many
tradesmen and others came over from England, and became inhabitants of
Harfleur; the King, with the desire of strengthening the place, having
guaranteed, by a proclamation through England, a house of inheritance
to all who would settle there.

About this time Henry sent a message to the Dauphin, challenging him
to single combat, and so to decide the dreadful struggle in which the
two kingdoms were engaged, without the further effusion of blood.
Occasion has been taken to reflect on this act of Henry's, as a stain
both on his personal valour and on his principles of justice: the
first, because he was twenty-seven years old, and the Dauphin not
twenty; the latter, because it were unjust "to expect that so
important a stake should be hazarded on the result of such a meeting."
To enhance Henry's guilt of cowardice, we are told that he challenged
"a mere youth, of whose prowess or bodily strength there is not    (p. 152)
the slightest evidence, and who died _in the December following_."
This is not the first time we have had occasion to remark on this same
writer's injustice towards Henry's memory. Why mention the Dauphin's
death in the following December, except to insinuate that Henry _knew_
he was then in a weak state of bodily health? Of this, however, there
is not the shadow of reason for suspecting Henry. On the contrary, the
evidence tends to the directly opposite conclusion. The Dauphin died
on the 25th December following; but so sudden was his decease, that a
suspicion was excited of his having been poisoned. Shuddering humanity
asks--"Who are these?
And what their sin?"--They fell by _one_ disease!
(Not by the Proteus maladies, that strike Man into nothingness--not
twice alike;) By the blue pest, whose gripe no art can shun, No force
unwrench--out-singled one by one; When like a timeless birth,
the womb of Fate Bore a new death, of unrecorded date, And
doubtful name. Far east its race begun, Thence round the world pursued
the westering sun; The ghosts of millions following at its back, Whose
desecrated graves betray'd their track; On Albion's shore, unseen, the
invader stept; Secret, and swift, and terrible it crept; At noon, at
midnight, seized the weak, the strong, Asleep, awake, alone, amidst the
throng, Kill'd like a murder; fix'd its icy hold, And wrung out life
with agony of cold; Nor stay'd its vengeance where it crush'd the prey,
But set a mark, like Cain's, upon their clay, And this tremendous seal
impress'd on all, "Bury me out of sight, and out of call."
Wherefore no filial foot this turf may tread, No kneeling mother
clasp her baby's bed; No maiden unespoused, with widow'd sighs,
Seek her soul's treasure where her true-love lies; --All stand
aloof, and gazing from afar, Look on this mount as on some baleful
star, Strange to the heavens, that with bewildering light, Like a
lost spirit, wanders through the night.

                   

                   We have proved that there could have been no
grounds for Henry's supposing that he was sending a challenge to a
youth enervated by sickness; and the difference of age alleged now, at
length, in disparagement of Henry's valour, would have been scouted by
all the good knights of Christendom, had it been pleaded as an apology
for the Dauphin declining the challenge. Surely it indicates a
conviction that the points in which the character of a man, famed for
bravery and justice, is assailable, are few and unimportant, when such
frivolous attacks as this are made on his fair fame.

HENRY'S CHALLENGE TO THE DAUPHIN may be thus translated:--         (p. 154)

     Henry, by the grace of God, King of France and England, Lord of
     Ireland, to the high and mighty Prince, the Dauphin of Vienne,
     our cousin, eldest son of the most mighty Prince, our cousin and
     adversary of France. Whereas, from reverence to God, and to avoid
     the shedding of human blood, we have many times and in many ways
     followed and sought for peace, and have not been able to possess
     it, yet our desire to secure it increases more and more; and well
     considering that our wars are followed by the death of men, the
     destruction of countries, the wailings of women and children, and
     so many evils generally as every good Christian must lament and
     pity, especially ourselves, whom this affair most affects, as it
     does, to take all pains and diligence to find every means within
     our knowledge to avoid the above-mentioned evils and distresses,
     and to acquire the grace of God and the praise of the world. And,
     since we have thought and advised, it has seemed to us,
     considering it has pleased God to visit our cousin with
     infirmity, that the remedy rests upon us and you. And to the end
     that every one might know that we withdraw not ourselves from it,
     nor from our part in it, we offer you to put our whole quarrel,
     with God's grace, between our person and yours. And if it should
     seem to you that you cannot agree to this, because of the
     interest which you conceive our cousin, your father, has in it,
     we declare to you in this our intention, that if you will
     entertain it, and engage in it, we are well pleased that our said
     cousin, for our reverence to God, and because he is a sacred
     person, shall have and enjoy all he has at present for the term
     of his life, whatever shall happen by the will of God between us
     and you, as it shall be agreed between his council, ours,     (p. 155)
     and yours.

     So that if God shall give us the victory, the crown of France
     with its appurtenances, as our right, shall be immediately
     rendered to us without difficulty after his decease. And to this
     all the lords and estates of France shall be bound, as it shall
     be agreed between us.

     For it is better for us, cousin, thus to decide this war for ever
     between our two persons, than to suffer the misbelievers, by
     occasion of our wars, to destroy Christianity, our holy mother
     the church to remain in divisions, and the people of God to
     destroy one another. We pray much that you may have as strong a
     desire to avoid that, and to come to peace, and seek all means of
     finding it. And let us trust in God that no better way than this
     can be found. I'll show your Grace the strangest sight--
     KING.
     What's that, Butts?

     BUTTS.
     I think your Highness saw this many a day.
     
     KING.
     Body o' me, where is it?
     
     BUTTS.
     There, my lord, The high promotion of his Grace of Canterbury;
     Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants, Pages, and
     footboys.
     

                   KING.
                   Ha! 'tis he, indeed.
                   Is this the honour they do one another?
                   'Tis well there's one above 'em yet.

I had thought They had parted so much honesty among 'em, At least,
good manners, as not thus to suffer A man of his place, and so near
our favour, To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures, And
at the door too, like a post with packets.

By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery.
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close; We shall hear more
anon.

[Exeunt.]

SCENE III. The council-chamber.

[A council-table brought in with chairs and stools, and placed under
the state.

Enter Lord Chancellor; places himself at the upper end of the table
on the left hand, a seat being left void above him, as for Canterbury's
seat.

Duke of Suffolk, Duke of Norfolk, Surrey, Lord Chamberlain, Gardiner,
seat themselves in order on each side. Cromwell at lower end, as
secretary. Keeper at the door.]
CHANCELLOR.
Speak to the business, master secretary.
Why are we met in council?

CROMWELL.
Please your honours, The chief cause concerns his Grace of
Canterbury.

GARDINER.
Has he had knowledge of it?

CROMWELL.
Yes.

NORFOLK.
Who waits there?

KEEPER.
Without, my noble lords?

GARDINER.
Yes.

KEEPER.
My Lord Archbishop; And has done half an hour, to know your
pleasures.

CHANCELLOR.
Let him come in.
KEEPER. Your Grace may enter now.
[Cranmer approaches the council-table.] 
CHANCELLOR.
My good Lord Archbishop, I'm very sorry To sit here at this present,
and behold That chair stand empty; but we all are men, In our own
natures frail, and capable Of our flesh; few are angels: out of
which frailty And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little, Toward the King first,
then his laws, in filling The whole realm, by your teaching and
your chaplains, For so we are inform'd, with new opinions Divers
and dangerous, which are heresies And, not reform'd, may prove
pernicious.

GARDINER.
Which reformation must be sudden too, My noble lords; for those
that tame wild horses Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
But stop their mouth with stubborn bits and spur 'em Till they obey
the manage. If we suffer, Out of our easiness and childish pity To
one man's honour, this contagious sickness, Farewell all physic!
And what follows then?
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint Of the whole state; as,
of late days, our neighbours, The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.

CRANMER.
My good lords, hitherto in all the progress Both of my life and
office, I have labour'd, And with no little study, that my teaching
And the strong course of my authority Might go one way, and safely;
and the end Was ever, to do well; nor is there living, I speak it
with a single heart, my lords, A man that more detests, more stirs
against, Both in his private conscience and his place, Defacers of
a public peace, than I do.
Pray Heaven, the King may never find a heart With less allegiance
in it! Men that make Envy and crooked malice nourishment Dare bite
the best. I do beseech your lordships, That, in this case of justice,
my accusers, Be what they will, may stand forth face to face And
freely urge against me.

SUFFOLK.
Nay, my lord, That cannot be. You are a counsellor, And, by that
virtue, no man dare accuse you.

GARDINER.
My lord, because we have business of more moment, We will be short
with you. 'Tis his Highness' pleasure And our consent, for better
trial of you, From hence you be committed to the Tower; Where, being
but a private man again, You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
More than, I fear, you are provided for.

CRANMER.
Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you.The
fact is beyond doubt, that, having garrisoned Harfleur, he quitted
that town about the 8th of October; leaving there all the heavy
articles and carriages, with whatever would be an impediment to his
progress, and conveying all the baggage of the army on horseback.
Henry issued a proclamation, forbidding his soldiers, on pain of
death, to be guilty of any kind of injustice or cruelty towards the
inhabitants as they passed along.

The King of France had collected an army from all sides: he had more
than 14,000 men-at-arms under valiant generals, with the greater part
of whom he remained at Rouen, watching the motions of the English. On
the 20th of October it was resolved in his council, by a large
majority, that the English should be resisted in a regular and pitched
battle. The King had received the celebrated standard, the Oriflamme,
with much solemnity: and war had been declared by unfurling that
consecrated ensign. There seemed at length to have spread through King
and princes, and nobles and people alike, an enthusiastic spirit,
determined to crush the invaders. The Dauphin himself could scarcely
be prevailed upon to obey his father's injunctions, and to abstain
from joining the army; his life being considered too precious to be
exposed to such danger.

Henry meanwhile, after leaving Harfleur,[124] proceeded without    (p. 159)
any important interruption through Montevilliers, Fecamp, Arques, a
town about four miles inland from Dieppe; and on Saturday, October 12,
he passed about half a mile to the right of the town of Eu, where part
of the French troops were quartered. These sallied out on the English
in great numbers, and very fiercely, but were soon repulsed; and a
treaty was agreed upon between Henry and the inhabitants, who supplied
refreshments to his army. He was now informed that the French would
offer him battle in a day or two, whilst he was passing the river
Somme. Undaunted by these tidings, he resolved to advance; and to
cross that river at Blanchetache, the very spot at which Edward III.
had passed it before the battle of Cressy. The field of Cressy was
only ten English miles in advance; and it may be safely inferred that
the remembrance of the struggle and victory of that day filled both
Henry himself and his men with additional zeal and resolution. By the
false assurance of a prisoner,[125] that the passage there was
defended by many noblemen with a strong force, Henry was induced to
change his route, and to proceed up the Somme on its left bank. He
reached Abbeville on Sunday the 13th of October; but, to his sad   (p. 160)
disappointment, he found all the bridges broken down, and the enemy
stationed on the opposite bank to resist his passage. At this time
Henry's situation was most perilous and dispiriting. His provisions
were nearly exhausted,--the enemy had laid waste their own country to
deprive his army of all sustenance; and no prospect was before them
but famine at once, and annihilation from the overwhelming forces of
the French. His army proceeded next day, and passed within a league of
Amiens, and were much refreshed with plenty of provisions; wine was
found in such abundance that the King was obliged to issue a
proclamation prohibiting excess. On the Thursday they reached a plain
near Corbie, from which town the French made a sally against them, but
were repulsed after a brief but spirited engagement. Heaven, from thy
endless goodness, send prosperous life, long and ever happy, to the
high and mighty Princess of England, Elizabeth!

[Flourish. Enter King and Guard.]
CRANMER.
[Kneeling.] And to your royal Grace, and the good queen, My noble
partners, and myself, thus pray:
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady, Heaven ever laid up to make
parents happy, May hourly fall upon ye!

                   KING.
                   Thank you, good Lord Archbishop.
                   What is her name?
                   

                   CRANMER.
                   Elizabeth.
                   
                   KING.

                   Stand up, lord.
                   

[The King kisses the child.]
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
Into whose hand I give thy life.

CRANMER.
Amen.

KING.
My noble gossips, ye have been too prodigal.
I thank ye heartily; so shall this lady, When she has so much
English.

CRANMER.
Let me speak, sir, For Heaven now bids me; and the words I utter Let
none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
This royal infant--Heaven still move about her!-- Though in her
cradle, yet now promises Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
Which time shall bring to ripeness. She shall be-- But few now
living can behold that goodness-- A pattern to all princes living
with her, And all that shall succeed. Saba was never More covetous
of wisdom and fair virtue Than this pure soul shall be. All princely
graces, That mould up such a mighty piece as this is, With all the
virtues that attend the good, Shall still be doubled on her. Truth
shall nurse her, Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her.
She shall be lov'd and fear'd: her own shall bless her; Her foes
shake like a field of beaten corn, And hang their heads with sorrow.
Good grows with her.
In her days every man shall eat in safety, Under his own vine, what
he plants, and sing The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.
God shall be truly known; and those about her From her shall read
the perfect ways of honour, And by those claim their greatness, not
by blood.
Nor shall this peace sleep with her; but as when The bird of wonder
dies, the maiden phoenix, Her ashes new create another heir As great
in admiration as herself; So shall she leave her blessedness to
one, When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness, Who
from the sacred ashes of her honour Shall star-like rise as great
in fame as she was, And so stand fix'd.But on the following day
two heralds came to announce to Henry the resolution of the French (p. 162)
to give him battle, and to take vengeance on him for invading their
country. Henry, without any change of countenance, with much
gentleness replied, "All would be done according to the will of God."
On the heralds then asking him by what route he proposed to proceed,
"Straight to Calais" was the reply. He then advised them not to
attempt to interrupt his march, but to avoid the shedding of Christian
blood. The heralds fell down upon their knees as they first approached
him; and on dismissing them, he gave them a hundred golden crowns.
From the hour of these heralds departing, Henry and his men always
wore their warrior-dress, in readiness for battle; and he spoke to his
army with much tenderness and spirit, and evidently with a powerful
effect. To his surprise, next morning none appeared to oppose him, and
he proceeded on his journey. Many circumstances happened from day to
day, and hour to hour, calculated to dispirit the English, by exciting
an assurance that the French army was near, and waiting their own time
to seize upon their prey; delaying only in order to make their utter
demolition more certain. Henry's route probably was taken through
Peronne, Albert, Bonnieres,[128] Frevent; and he reached the river
Ternoise (called the River of Swords) without any remarkable       (p. 163)
occurrence. No sooner, however, had he passed the Ternoise, and
mounted the hill not far from Maisoncelle, than a man came, breathless,
and told the Duke of York that the enemy was approaching in countless
numbers. Henry forthwith commanded the main body to halt, and setting
spurs to his horse hastened to view the enemy, who seemed to him like
an immense forest covering the whole country. Nothing dismayed, he
ordered his troops to dismount and prepare for battle; animating them
by his calm, intrepid bearing, and by his language of kindness and
encouragement. 'Tis woeful.
We are too open here to argue this; Let's think in private more.

                   [Exeunt.]
                   
                   SCENE II. An ante-chamber in the palace.
                   
                   [Enter the Lord Chamberlain, reading this
                   letter:.]

                   CHAMBERLAIN.
                   "My lord, the horses your lordship sent for, with
                   all the care had, I saw well chosen, ridden,
                   and furnish'd.
                   They were young and handsome, and of the best
                   breed in the north.
                   When they were ready to set out for London, a man
                   of my Lord Cardinal's, by commission and main power,
                   took 'em from me, with this reason: His master
                   would be serv'd before a subject, if not before
                   the King; which stopp'd our mouths, sir." I fear
                   he will indeed. Well, let him have them:
                   He will have all, I think.

[Enter to the Lord Chamberlain the Dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk.]
NORFOLK.
Well met, my Lord Chamberlain.

CHAMBERLAIN.
Good day to both your Graces.
SUFFOLK.
How is the King employ'd?

CHAMBERLAIN.
I left him private, Full of sad thoughts and troubles.

NORFOLK.
What's the cause?

CHAMBERLAIN.
It seems the marriage with his brother's wife Has crept too near
his conscience.

SUFFOLK.
No, his conscience Has crept too near another lady.

NORFOLK.
'Tis so.
This is the Cardinal's doing, the king-cardinal.
That blind priest, like the eldest son of Fortune, Turns what he
list. The King will know him one day.

SUFFOLK.
Pray God he do! he'll never know himself else.

NORFOLK.
How holily he works in all his business!
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league Between us
and the Emperor, the Queen's great nephew, He dives into the King's
soul, and there scatters Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
Fears, and despairs; and all these for his marriage.Sir Walter
Hungerford having expressed his sorrow that they had not ten thousand
of those gallant archers who would be most desirous of aiding their
King in his hour of need, the King rebuked him, saying, "He spoke
idly, for, as his hope was in God, in whom he trusted for victory, he
would not, if he could, increase his forces even by a single person;
for, if it was the pleasure of the Almighty, few as were his
followers, they were sufficient to chastise the confidence of the
enemy, who relied on their numbers."

