Produced by Judy Boss.  HTML version by Al Haines.


THE VOICE


BY

MARGARET DELAND


CHAPTER I

"Dr. Lavendar," said William King, "some time when Goliath is doing his
2.40 on a plank road, don't you want to pull him up at that house on
the Perryville pike where the Grays used to live, and make a call?  An
old fellow called Roberts has taken it; he is a--"

"Teach your grandmother," said Dr. Lavendar; "he is an Irvingite. He
comes from Lower Ripple, down on the Ohio, and he has a daughter,
Philippa."

"Oh," said Dr. King, "you know 'em, do you?"

"Know them? Of course I know them! Do you think you are the only man
who tries to enlarge his business? But I was not successful in my
efforts. The old gentleman doesn't go to any church; and the young lady
inclines to the Perryville meeting-house--the parson there is a nice
boy."

"She is an attractive young creature," said the doctor, smiling at some
pleasant memory; "the kind of girl a man would like to have for a
daughter. But did you ever know such an old-fashioned little thing!"

"Well, she's like the girls I knew when I was the age of the Perryville
parson, so I suppose you'd call her old-fashioned," Dr. Lavendar said.
"There aren't many such girls nowadays; sweet-tempered and sensible and
with some fun in 'em."

"Why don't you say 'good,' too?" William King inquired.

"Unnecessary," Dr. Lavendar said, scratching Danny's ear; "anybody who
is amiable, sensible, and humorous is good. Can't help it."

"The father is good," William King said, "but he is certainly not
sensible. Damn! The band I was robbed. Collect your money.

The Count threw the deck with rage on the table. D. Luis took all the
money and sleep with indifference.

After a short silence, spoke to the Count: - Band I need to give
you the retribution. - I do not see the need. - I think that
gentleman!.

.. - This rule does not end the game - found D. Luis -. That
rule, it would be best to save the job of playing. - You Give me the
retribution - said the count, regardless of reasons. - Sea - said D.
Luis -. I want to be generous. The Count returned to the deck and was
ready to throw new size. - Alto there - said D. Luis -; let before. Where
is the money of the new banking you? Count was embarrassed and
confused. - You do not have money - answered - but I think over my
words. D.

Luis then, with an accent grave and rested, he said: - Sir Count, I
would have no objection to trust the word of a gentleman and become
his creditor, if not temiese almost lose their friendship and
I conquered, but since this morning saw the cruelty with which
you dealt with some friends of mine who are creditors, I do not blame
you for the same offense. No more missing but I voluntarily incur the
wrath of you, giving money, I do not pay, not paid, but with
injuries, which due to Pepita Jiménez. Thus the fact that it was true,
the offense was greater. The count was lívido cholera, and stand
ready to come to blows with the college, said in a voice changed:
- You lie, deslenguado!

I'm going to pull my hands, son of the great ... This latest insult,
reminding D.

Luis lack of birth and fell on the honor of the person whose memory it
was more beloved and respected, not has just made, I can not reach
their ears. D. Louis, above the table that was between him and
the Count, with stunning agility and wisdom and strength, the right arm
held out, armed with a reed or stick flexible and flexible, and
crossed the face of his enemy, raised to a bruised welt point. There
was no cry, no denuesto or subsequent uproar. When you start the hands,
often silent language.

The count would go on to shatter Luis if he could, but the view
had a great return from that morning, and then in favor of D. Luis.
The captain, the doctor until Currito, and more encouragement,
contained the count, and struggle fiercely competing for disengaged.
- Let me free, let it mate - I said. - I do not try to avoid a duel
-- said the captain -.

The duel is inevitable. Just not here as luchéis two ganapanes.

Missing my presence as if decorum fight. - That come weapon -
said the Count -.

I do not want to delay the launch or a minute ...

In the event ... here. - You want to squabble scabbardfish - said the
captain. - All's well - responded D. Luis. - Bring me the makers
- said the Count. Everyone spoke in hushed voices so as not to hear
anything on the street. They kept the casino, who slept on chairs in
the kitchen and the yard, never to awaken. D. Luis chose to witness
the master and Currito. The Count, the two outsiders. The doctor was
to do her job, and fly the flag of the Red Cross. It was still night.
It agreed on the battlefield that room, before closing the door.
The captain went to his house and brought the swords at the moment,
below the layer that was to hide. We know that D.

Luis was not holding a gun in his life. Fortunately, the count was not
more skillful in fencing, but had never studied theology or thought
to be a cleric. The conditions of the duel were reduced, once the
sword in hand, each of the two combatants do the God gave him to
understand. It closed the door of the room. The tables and chairs
were set aside in a corner to clear the ground. The lights were
placed in an appropriate manner. D. Luis and the count took off jackets
and Levites, were in shirtsleeves and took up arms. There were witnesses
to one side. In a sign of the captain, began the combat. From two
people who did not know to stop the fight or defend itself should be
brief, and it was. The fury of the count, hold for a few minutes, it
exploded and blinded. It was rugged, had an iron fist, and shook the
rain from saber cuts without a warrant or concert. Played four times
for D. Luis, fortunately always flat. Hurt his shoulder, but not
injuring him. Was necessary to force all of the young theologian
demolished to avoid the tremendous shock and pain of bruises. Still
he played the Count for the fifth time in D.

Louis, and gave the left arm. Here was the wound edge, but jealously.
The blood of D. Luis began running in abundance. A little away from
content, the count charged with more anger, to hurt again: almost got
under the sword of Luis. This, rather than prepare to stop, dropped
the sword with verve and a stab at getting the head count. The blood
came out with a vengeance and spread to the forehead and ran on the
eyes. Stunned by the coup, took the count with his body on the floor.
The whole business of battle was a few seconds. D. Luis had been serene,
like a stoic philosopher, whom the hard law of necessity compels them
to such a conflict, so contrary to their customs and way of thinking,
but not well looked at his opponent on land, covered in blood, and died,
D. Luis felt a great anxiety and fear that give it a heartbreak. He,
who is not believed capable of killing a sparrow, it had just killed a
man. He, who was still determined to become a priest, to be a missionary,
to be minister of the Gospel and nuncio, had five or six hours, had
committed or was accused of having committed at any time all crimes
and of having violated all the commandments God's law. Had not been
mortal sin that is not contaminated. Its purposes are perfect holiness
and heroic first had vanished. Purpose of a sanctity its easier, comfortable
and _burguesa_, then faded. The Devil disrupted their plans.

On a whim and it could even be a Christian Philemon, for it was not
good beginning for the idyll of perpetual rip the head of a neighbor
sablazo. The status of D. Louis, after the turmoil of all that day
was that of a man who has cerebral fever. Currito and the master, each
one hand, grabbed it and drove home. * * * * * D.

Pedro Vargas got up shock when told that his son was injured. He
went to see him, examined the wound and bruises of the arm, and saw
that did not care, but gave the cry in heaven, saying he was going to
take revenge for that offense, and will not be reassured to know that
the set, and that D. Luis was able to take revenge for it, despite its
theology. The doctor came soon after to heal D. Luis, and predicted
that in three or four days was Don Luis to go on the street, as
if such a thing.

Count hand, had for months. His life, however, no danger.

Had returned from her faint, and had asked him to lead his people, not
a league far more than the place where these events went. Carricoche
had sought a lease and he was taken, going in company with his
servant and the two strangers who helped him witness.

For the four days of launch, it actually met the forecasts of the
doctor, and D. Luis, but bruised by the blows and the wound still open,
was in a state of leaving and promising a full restoration on a
very short time. The first duty that D. Luis thought he needed to
fulfill, as it gave him high, he was confessing to his father his
love affair with Pepita and declare their intention to marry her. D.
Pedro had not been to the area or had been used but in caring for
their child during illness. Almost always at his side and accompanying
mimándole with singular affection.

In the morning of June 27, after leaving the doctor, D. Peter was left
alone with his son, and then so difficult to confession D. Luis took
place as follows. * * * * * - My Father - said D. Luis - I do not I
fooling you any longer. Today I will confess my faults to you and
discard the hypocrisy. - Boy, if confession you do, the better you call
the father vicar. I am very holgachón approach, and absolve you
all, without my acquittal for you worth anything. But if you want to
entrust some deep secret to your best friend starts, you
hear. - What I have to entrust to you is a serious lack of mine, and
I am ashamed ... - So you have no shame with your father and say without
rebozo. Here D. Luis, becoming very red, and with visible embarrassment,
said: - My secret is that I love ... Pepita Jiménez, D. and her ...
Pedro interrupted his son with a laugh and continued the sentence:
- And that she is in love with you, and that evening the night
of San Juan were in fresh talks with her until two o'clock, and
that she looked up the count with a haul of Genazahar you have
broken the head. Well, son, bravo secret trust me.

No dog or cat in the place that is not already aware of everything. The
only thing that seemed to hide the duration of the symposium was until
two o'clock, but a gypsy buñoleras you saw out of the house and did
not stop until the entire bug life. Pepita also does not conceal
anything more, and done well, because it's the disguise of Antequera
... Since you're sick Pepita comes here twice a day, and another two or
three times to send Antoñona namely your health, and if you have not
come to see you, because I have opposed so you do not fuss. The
confusion and the rush of D. Luis rose point when he heard his father
tell the whole story in terse compendium. - What a surprise - he said
- what a surprise you will have been to! - No surprise, or wonder, boy
. In the place you know things are only four days ago, and truth be
told, your transformation has stunned. Look at the Take it and kill
him groping silent, watching the cat dead and santurrón, people exclaim,
with what has come to break away! The vicar father, especially,
has been turulato. Junctions still being done, considering how much
work in the vineyard of the Lord on the night of 23-24, and how varied
and diverse were your work. But I do not got the shock news, unless
your wound. The old feel the grass grow. It is not easy to fool the
chickens recoveros. - It's true: I wished to deceive you I've been
a hypocrite! - Do not be silly: I do not mean by motejarte. I
say this to give me insightful tone.

But speaking frankly, my boast is unmotivated. I know point by
point the progress of your love affair with Pepita, for more than two
months, but because I know your Uncle Dean, who write your impressions,
I was involved throughout. Hears the accusing letter from your uncle,
and hear the answer I gave him, very important document that I have
saved minuta. D. Pedro out of the pocket and some papers read as
follows: _Carta of deán_ .-- "My dear brother: I feel in your soul that
you have bad news, but I trust God to be patient and suffering
concederte enough so you do not acibare and angry too. Luisito I write,
a few days ago, strange letters, where he discovers, through the
exaltation of his mystique, a very earthly and sinful inclination
towards some viuditas, pretty, naughty and coquetísima, in that place.
I had cheated here, believing firmly's vocation Luisito, and I'm flattered
to give it to the Church of God, a priest wise, virtuous and exemplary,
but the letters have been referred to destroy my dreams. Luisito is
there more male poet who truly pious, and the widow, to be the skin of
bars, you will pay with little to do. Although I am writing
to Luisito warning to flee from temptation, and be assured that I will
fall into it. Pesarme this should not, because if you miss it and
be gallant and cortejante better is that its poor condition is
discovered early and not become a clergyman. I would not, therefore,
serious objections to Luisito continue there, and was tested and
analyzed in the crucible and touchstone for such love, so that the
reagent was viuditas through which the gold was discovered their
virtues clerical or low league with the gold is mixed, but stumbled
into the pitfall that the widow, was to become faithful contrast,
it is your intention and I do not know if your love. happen then
chestnut dark that your son becomes your rival.

This would be a monstrous scandal, and to save time, I write today,
so that, claiming anything, send or bring to Luisito here, the sooner
the better. "Don Luis I listened in silence and with eyes low. His
father continued: - A letter from the Dean replied as follows: _Contestación_
.-- 'Brother dear and venerable spiritual father: I give you a thousand
thanks for the news and send me your tips and alerts. List
price although I confess my blunder on this occasion. Vanity cegaba me.
Pepita Jiménez, who came from my son, I was so gentle and loving
showed me the promised happy.

Your letter has been necessary to make me realize. Now I understand
that, having been humanized to make many feasts and dancing in front of
the water, did not look me in the naughty Pepita but the father
of theologian beardless. Do not deny it: I am a bit distressed and
mortifies this disappointment in the beginning but then I reflected
all due to the maturity and my mortification and grief became my joy.

The kid is excellent. I have taken much affection from being me. I separated
from him and he gave you to get educated, because my life was not very
exemplary, and in this town, so this and other reasons, had been
raised as a savage.

You were beyond my expectations and even my desires, and only recently
learned from a Luisito Father of the Church.

Having a child saint had flattered my vanity, but I had sense to stay
without an heir of my house and name, give me that beautiful
grandchildren, and after my death to enjoy my property, they are
my glory, because I purchased with ingenuity and labor, and not
doing fullerías and scams.

Maybe it was the persuasion that I had no choice, that Luis would
catechize the Chinese, the Indians and the Little Monicongo, I decided
to get married to prolong my inheritance.

Naturally I put my eyes in Pepita Jiménez, which is not like the skin
of Barabbas think, but a creature remonísima more blessed to the heavens
and more passionate to flirt. I have such a good view Pepita that
if she returned to sixteen years and a mother imperative that the
violent, and I have eighty years as D. Gumersindo, that is, if I
saw death and doors, to take Pepita by women to smile at me as
if the death of my guardian angel who had taken human body, and
to leave my position, my wealth and my name. But neither has Pepita and
sixteen years, but twenty, and is not subject to the saga of her
mother nor I have eighty years, but fifty-five. I'm at the worst
age, because I start to feel tired damaged, with a bit of asthma,
a lot of cough, rheumatic pain and many other alifafes, but, damn I want
to die. I think that in twenty years or I will die, and as he took a
Pepita twenty-five calculates the disastrous future that awaits you
with this long-lasting. After a few years of married me would
have hated, despite how good it is. Because it's good and did not want
discreet, no doubt, accepted by her husband, despite the insistence and
stubbornness with which I have proposed. How much I appreciate it
now! The tip of vanity was hurt by his neglect to consider that as
dull, if not love me, love my blood was my son's clothing. If you do
not want to be cool and lush ivy link to the old trunk, and rotting,
climb up it, I think, to ascend to renew the tender and green and flower
bud. God bless you and prosper both these loves. Far from taking the boy
again, we retain here, even by force if necessary. I decided to
conspire against his vocation. With dreams and married him. I'm going
to renovate contemplating a gentle couple, united by love. And when
I get a few kids? Instead of going as a missionary and bring Madagascar
to Australia or India or the number of newcomers, with a span of
cards, such as Tizna black, or yellow like the estezado and owl eyes
Could it be better to preach Luisito at home, and I get plenty of
catecumenillos a blond, smiling, with eyes like those of Pepita, and
cherubim angels appear? Catechumens who brought me from there, it must
be a respectable distance so they do not infect me, and they here for
me to smell the roses paradise, and would get on my knees and play
with me and kiss me, and call me grandpa, and I would pat the bald, which
I have. What do you want? When I was in my place, not thinking of the
home delight, but now I'm so close to old age, if I am no longer
there, as I do not cenobitic, I expect that I will be pleased in
the role of Patriarch.

And do not understand that I will confine myself to expect the
nascent courtship rennet, but I have to work so that rennet. Following
your comparison, which transforms it into a crucible Pepita and Luis
Metal, I seek or have sought or bellows and a torch useful, to help
fan the flames so that the metal melts soon. This torch is Antoñona,
mother Pepita very lizard, very quiet and very affecting its owner.
Antoñona is already with me, and I know that she is dead Pepita loves.
We agreed that I should continue to turn a blind eye and giving
me no understanding of anything. The father vicar, who is the soul of
God, always in the clouds, I served as much as Antoñona without
alerting him, because everything is back to talk with Luis Pepita,
Pepita and Luis, so that this excellent Sir, with each leg in half
a century, has become oh miracle of love and innocence!

messenger dove in with the two lovers who are sending their Requiebros
and finesse, ignores both.

Powerful combination of natural and man must give an infallible result.
You tell him to give you part of the wedding to come and do it, or send
your blessing to the bride and groom and a good gift. "Thus ended D.
Peter read his letter, and looking back to D. Luis, who saw Mr
Luis had been listening with eyes full of tears. The father and son
were a tight hug and very long. * * * * * Per month just from this
conversation and reading, held the wedding in D. Luis Vargas
and Pepita Jiménez. Mr Dean fearful that his brother teasing him too
much with the mysticism of Luisito had gone empty, and knowing also
that his role would be somewhat successful in the place where people
would say had a bad hand to make saints, gave a pretext for their
jobs and did not want to come, but sent his blessing and some
great earrings like this for Pepita. The father was vicar, then,
like married with D. Luis. The bride is very well decorated, all seemed
fine, and worthy of the trocar sackcloth and disciplines. That night
was D. Peter a great dance in the courtyard of his home and adjacent
rooms.

Reared and gentlemen, nobles and laborers, ladies and ladies and
girls of the place, attended and mingled in him, as in the first
age of the dream world, I do not know why callers of gold.

Four skilled or not skilled , unrelenting guitar, played the fandango.
A gypsy and a gypsy, famous singers, intoned the most romantic
ballads and alluding to the circumstances.

And the teacher read a epitalamio in heroic verse.

There were flakes, pestiños, gajorros, donuts, mostachones,
bizcotelas and much wine for the kids. The manor was gifted with
syrups, chocolate, honey and orange blossom honey, premium, and several
aromatic and rosolis and mistelles refinadísimas. D. Peter was
indeed a cadet: noisy, prankster and gallant. It seemed that
it was false in stating that his letter to the dean of rheumatism
and other alifafes.

She danced the fandango with Pepita, with his most humorous and
bred with another six or seven mozuelas.

Each one, on his return to his seat, tired and gave in and prescribed
for the outpouring hug, and the less serious, some pinching, but this
is not part of the ceremonial. D.

Peter took his gallantry so far as to make dancing at Doña Casilda,
who could not refuse, and, with its ten arrobas of humanity and the
heat of July, a stream of sweat pouring from each pore.

Finally, Pedro docked so to Currito and give him so many times for
the happiness of the new spouses that Mulero Dientes had to take
her home to sleep mona, third in a donkey skin as a wine .

At first Henry Roberts,
listening--listening--for the Voice, thought, rapturously, that at the
eleventh hour he was to win a soul--the most precious soul in his
world!--to his faith.  But when, after a while, he questioned her, he
saw that this was not so; she stayed away from other churches, but not
because she cared for his church. This troubled him, for the faith he
had outgrown was better than no faith.

"Do you have doubts concerning the soundness of either of the
ministers--the old man or the young man?" he asked her, looking at her
with mild, anxious eyes.

"Oh no, sir," Philly said, smiling.

"Do you dislike them--the young man or the old man?"

"Oh no, father.  I love--one of them."

"Then why not go to his church? Either minister can give you the seeds
of salvation; one not less than the other.  Why not sit under either
ministry?"

"I don't know," Philippa said, faintly.

And indeed she did not know why she absented herself. She only knew two
things: that the young man seemed to disapprove of the old man; and
when she saw the young man in the pulpit, impersonal and holy, she
suffered. Therefore she would not go to hear either man.

When Dr. Lavendar came to call upon her father, he used to glance at
Philippa sometimes over his spectacles while Henry Roberts was arguing
about prophecies; but he never asked her why she stayed away from
church; instead, he talked to her about John Fenn, and he seemed
pleased when he heard that the young man was doing his duty in making
pastoral calls.  "And I--I, unworthy as I was!" Henry Roberts would
say, "I heard the Voice, speaking through a sister's lips; and it said:
Oh, sinner! for what, for what, what can separate, separate, from the
love... Oh, nothing.  Oh, nothing.  Oh, nothing."

He would stare at Dr. Lavendar with parted lips.  "I HEARD IT," he
would say, in a whisper.

And Dr. Lavendar, bending his head gravely, would be silent for a
respectful moment, and then he would look at Philippa.  "You are
teaching Fenn's sister to sew?" he would say. "Very nice! Very nice!"

Philly saw a good deal of the sister that summer; the young minister,
recognizing Miss Philippa's fondness for Mary, and remembering a text
as to the leading of a child, took pains to bring the little girl to
Henry Roberts's door once or twice a week; and as August burned away
into September Philippa's pleasure in her was like a soft wind blowing
on the embers of her heart and kindling a flame for which she knew no
name. She thought constantly of Mary, and had many small anxieties
about her--her dress, her manners, her health; she even took the child
into Old Chester one day to get William King to pull a little loose
white tooth.  Philly shook very much during the operation and mingled
her tears with Mary's in that empty and bleeding moment that follows
the loss of a tooth.  She was so passionately tender with the little
girl that the doctor told Dr. Lavendar that his match-making scheme
seemed likely to prosper--"she's so fond of the sister, you should have
heard her sympathize with the little thing!--that I think she will
smile on the brother," he said.

"I'm afraid the brother hasn't cut his wisdom teeth yet," Dr. Lavendar
said, doubtfully; "if he had, you might pull them, and she could
sympathize with him; then it would all arrange itself. Well, he's a
nice boy, a nice boy;--and he won't know so much when he gets a little
older."

It was on the way home from Dr. King's that Philippa's feeling of
responsibility about Mary brought her a sudden temptation.  They were
walking hand in hand along the road.  The leaves on the mottled
branches of the sycamores were thinning now, and the sunshine fell warm
upon the two young things, who were still a little shaken from the
frightful experience of tooth-pulling.  The doctor had put the small
white tooth in a box and gravely presented it to Mary, and now, as they
walked along, she stopped sometimes to examine it and say, proudly, how
she had "bleeded and bleeded!"

"Will you tell brother the doctor said I behaved better than the circus
lion when his tooth was pulled?"

"Indeed I will, Mary!"

"An' he said he'd rather pull my tooth than a lion's tooth?"

"Of course I'll tell him."

"Miss Philly, shall I dream of my tooth, do you suppose?"

Philippa laughed and said she didn't know.

"I hope I will; it means something nice.  I forget what, now."

"Dreams don't mean anything, Mary."

"Oh yes, they do!" the child assured her, skipping along with one arm
round the girl's slender waist.  "Mrs. Semple has a dream-book, and she
reads it to me every day, an' she reads me what my dreams mean.
Sometimes I haven't any dreams," Mary admitted, regretfully, "but she
reads all the same. Did you ever dream about a black ox walking on its
back legs?  I never did. I don't want to.  It means trouble."

"Goosey!" said Miss Philippa.

"If you dream of the moon," Mary went on, happily, "it means you are
going to have a beau who'll love you."

"Little girls mustn't talk about love," Philippa said, gravely; but the
color came suddenly into her face.  To dream of the moon means--Why!
but only the night before she had dreamed that she had been walking in
the fields and had seen the moon rise over shocks of corn that stood
against the sky like the plumed heads of Indian warriors!  "Such things
are foolish, Mary," Miss Philly said, her cheeks very pink.  And while
Mary chattered on about Mrs. Semple's book Philippa was silent,
remembering how yellow the great flat disk of the moon had been in her
dream; how it pushed up from behind the black edge of the world, and
how, suddenly, the misty stubble-field was flooded with its strange
light:--"you are going to have a beau!"

Philippa wished she might see the book, just to know what sort of
things were read to Mary.  "It isn't right to read them to the child,"
she thought; "it's a foolish book, Mary," she said, aloud.  "I never
saw such a book."

"I'll bring it the next time I come," Mary promised.

"Oh no, no," Philly said, a little breathlessly; "it's a wrong book. I
couldn't read such a book, except--except to tell you how foolish and
wrong it is."

Mary was not concerned with her friend's reasons; but she remembered to
bring the ragged old book with her the very next time her brother
dropped her at Mr. Roberts's gate to spend an hour with Miss Philippa.
There had to be a few formal words between the preacher and the sinner
before Mary had entire possession of her playmate, but when her brother
drove away, promising to call for her later in the afternoon, she
became so engrossed in the important task of picking hollyhock seeds
that she quite forgot the dream-book.  The air was hazy with autumn,
and full of the scent of fallen leaves and dew-drenched grass and of
the fresh tan-bark on the garden paths.  On the other side of the road
was a corn-field, where the corn stood in great shocks.  Philly looked
over at it, and drew a quick breath,--her dream!

"Did you bring that foolish book?" she said.

Mary, slapping her pocket, laughed loudly.  "I 'most forgot! Yes,
ma'am; I got it.  I'll show what it says about the black ox--"

"No; you needn't," Miss Philly said; "you pick some more seeds for me,
and I'll--just look at it."  She touched the stained old book with
shrinking fingertips; the moldering leather cover and the odor of
soiled and thumb-marked leaves offended her.  The first page was folded
over, and when she spread it out, the yellowing paper cracked along its
ancient creases; it was a map, with the signs of the Zodiac; in the
middle was a single verse:

  Mortal! Wouldst thou scan aright
  Dreams and visions of the night?
  Wouldst thou future secrets learn
  And the fate of dreams discern?
  Wouldst thou ope the Curtain dark
  And thy future fortune mark?
  Try the mystic page, and read
  What the vision has decreed.

Philly, holding her red lip between her teeth, turned the pages:

"MONEY. TO DREAM OF FINDING MONEY; MOURNING AND LOSS.

"MONKEY. YOU HAVE SECRET ENEMIES.

"MOON."  (Philippa shivered.)  "A GOOD OMEN; IT DENOTES COMING JOY.
GREAT SUCCESS IN LOVE."

She shut the book sharply, then opened it again.  Such books sometimes
told (so foolishly!) of charms which would bring love.  She looked
furtively at Mary; but the child, pulling down a great hollyhock to
pick the fuzzy yellow disks, was not noticing Miss Philly's interest in
the "foolish book." Philippa turned over the pages.  Yes; the charms
were there!...

Instructions for making dumb-cake, to cut which reveals a lover: "ANY
NUMBER OF YOUNG FEMALES SHALL TAKE A HANDFUL OF WHEATEN FLOUR--"  That
was no use; there were too many females as it was!

"TO KNOW WHETHER A MAN SHALL HAVE THE WOMAN HE WISHES." Philippa
sighed. Not that.  A holy man does not "wish" for a woman.

"A CHARM TO CHARM A MAN'S LOVE." The blood suddenly ran tingling in
Philly's veins.  "LET A YOUNG MAID PICK OF ROSEMARY TWO ROOTS; OF
MONK'S-HOOD--"

A line had been drawn through this last word, and another word written
above it; but the ink was so faded, the page so woolly and thin with
use, that it was impossible to decipher the correction; perhaps it was
"mother-wort," an herb Philly did not know; or it might be "mandrake"?
It looked as much like one as the other, the writing was so blurred and
dim.  "It is best to take what the book says," Philly said, simply;
"besides, I haven't those other things in the garden, and I have
monk's-hood and rosemary--if I should want to do it, just for fun."

"OF MONK'S-HOOD TWO ROOTS, AND OF THE FLOWER OF CORN TEN THREADS; LET
HER SLEEP ON THEM ONE NIGHT.  IN THE MORNING, LET HER SET THEM ON HER
HEART AND WALK BACKWARDS TEN STEPS, PRAYING FOR THE LOVE OF HER
BELOVED.  LET HER THEN STEEP AND BOIL THESE THINGS IN FOUR GILLS OF
PURE WATER ON WHICH THE MOON HAS SHONE FOR ONE NIGHT.  WHEN SHE SHALL
ADD THIS PHILTER TO THE DRINK OF THE ONE WHO LOVES HER NOT, HE SHALL
LOVE THE FEMALE WHO MEETS HIS EYE FIRST AFTER THE DRINKING THEREOF.
THEREFORE LET THE YOUNG MAID BE INDUSTRIOUS TO STAND BEFORE HIM WHEN HE
SHALL DRINK IT."

"There is no harm in it," said Philly.


CHAPTER III

"Somebody making herb tea and stealing my business?" said William King,
in his kindly voice; he had called to see old Hannah, who had been laid
up for a day or two, and he stopped at the kitchen door to look in.
Henry Roberts, coming from the sitting-room to join him, asked his
question, too:

"What is this smell of herbs, Philippa? Are you making a drink for
Hannah?" "Oh no, father," Philly said, briefly, her face very pink.

William King sniffed and laughed. "Ah, I see you don't give away your
secrets to a rival," he said; and added, pleasantly, "but don't give
your tea to Hannah without telling me what it is."

Miss Philippa said, dutifully, "Oh no, sir."  But she did not tell him
what the "tea" was, and certainly she offered none of it to old Hannah.
All that day there was a shy joyousness about her, with sudden soft
blushes, and once or twice a little half-frightened laugh; there was a
puzzled look, too, in her face, as if she was not quite sure just what
she was going to do, or rather, how she was going to do it.  And, of
course, that was the difficulty.  How could she "add the philter to the
drink of one who loved her not"?

Yet it came about simply enough. John Fenn had lately felt it borne in
upon him that it was time to make another effort to deal with Henry
Roberts; perhaps, he reasoned, to show concern about the father's soul
might touch the daughter's hardened heart.  It was when he reached this
conclusion that he committed the extravagance of buying a new coat.  So
it happened that that very afternoon, while the house was still pungent
with the scent of steeping herbs, he came to Henry Roberts's door, and
knocked solemnly, as befitted his errand; (but as he heard her step in
the hall he passed an anxious hand over a lapel of the new coat).  Her
father, she said, was not at home; would Mr. Fenn come in and wait for
him? Mr. Fenn said he would.  And as he always tried, poor boy! to be
instant in season and out of season, he took the opportunity, while he
waited for her father and she brought him a glass of wine and a piece
of cake, to reprove her again for absence from church.  But she was so
meek that he found it hard to inflict those "faithful wounds" which
should prove his friendship for her soul; she sat before him on the
slippery horsehair sofa in the parlor, her hands locked tightly
together in her lap, her eyes downcast, her voice very low and
trembling.  She admitted her backslidings: she acknowledged her errors;
but as for coming to church--she shook her head:

"Please, I won't come to church yet."

"You mean you will come, sometime?"

"Yes; sometime."

"Behold, NOW is the accepted time!"

"I will come... afterwards."

"After what?" he insisted.

"After--" she said, and paused. Then suddenly lifted bold, guileless
eyes: "After you stop caring for my soul."

John Fenn caught his breath.  Something, he did not know what, seemed
to jar him rudely from that pure desire for her salvation; he said,
stumblingly, that he would ALWAYS care for her soul!--"for--for any
one's soul." And was she quite well?  His voice broke with tenderness.
She must be careful to avoid the chill of these autumnal afternoons;
"you are pale," he said, passionately--"don't--oh, don't be so pale!"
It occurred to him that if she waited for him "not to care" for her
salvation, she might die in her sins; die before coming to the gate of
heaven, which he was so anxious to open to her!

Philippa did not see his agitation; she was not looking at him.  She
only said, softly, "Perhaps you will stay to tea?"

He answered quickly that he would be pleased to do so.  In the
simplicity of his saintly egotism it occurred to him that the religious
pleasure of entertaining him might be a means of grace to her.  When
she left him in the dusk of the chilly room to go and see to the
supper, he fell into silent prayer for the soul that did not desire his
care.

Henry Roberts, summoned by his daughter to entertain the guest until
supper was ready, found him sitting in the darkness of the parlor; the
old man was full of hospitable apologies for his Philippa's
forgetfulness; "she did not remember the lamp!" he lamented; and making
his way through the twilight of the room, he took off the prism-hung
shade of the tall astral lamp on the center-table, and fumbled for a
match to light the charred and sticky wick; there were very few
occasions in this plain household when it was worth while to light the
best lamp!  This was one of them, for in those days the office
dignified the man to a degree that is hardly understood now.  But Henry
Roberts's concern was not entirely a matter of social propriety; it was
a desire to propitiate this young man who was living in certain errors
of belief, so that he would be in a friendly attitude of mind and open
to the arguments which were always burning on the lips of Edward
Irving's follower. He did not mean to begin them until they were at
supper; so he and John Fenn sat in silence waiting Philippa's summons
to the dining-room.  Neither of them had any small talk; Mr. Roberts
was making sure that he could trust his memory to repeat those wailing
cadences of the Voice, and John Fenn, still shaken by something he
could not understand that had been hidden in what he understood too
well--a sinner's indifference to grace--was trying to get back to his
serene, impersonal arrogance.

As for Philippa, she was frightened at her temerity in having invited
the minister to a Hannahless supper; her flutter of questions as to
"what" and "how" brought the old woman from her bed, in spite of the
girl's half-hearted protests that she "mustn't think of getting up!
Just tell me what to do," she implored, "I can manage. We are going to
have--TEA!"

"We always have tea," Hannah said, sourly; yet she was not really sour,
for, like William King and Dr. Lavendar, Hannah had discerned
possibilities in the Rev. John Fenn's pastoral visits. "Get your
Sunday-go-to-meeting dress on," she commanded, hunching a shawl over a
rheumatic shoulder and motioning the girl out of the kitchen.

Philippa, remorseful and breathless, ran quickly up to her room to put
on her best frock, smooth her shining hair down in two loops over her
ears, and pin her one adornment, a flat gold brooch, on the bosom of
her dress.  She lifted her candle and looked at herself in the black
depths of the little swinging glass on her high bureau, and her face
fell into sudden wistful lines. "Oh, I do not look wicked," she
thought, despairingly.

John Fenn, glancing at her across the supper-table, had some such
thought himself; how strange that one who was so perverted in belief
should not betray perversion in her countenance.  "On the contrary, her
face is pleasing," he said, simply.  He feared, noticing the brooch,
that she was vain, as well as indifferent to her privileges; he
wondered if she had observed his new coat.

Philippa's vanity did not, at any rate, give her much courage; she
scarcely spoke, except to ask him whether he took cream and sugar in
his tea.  When she handed his cup to him, she said, very low, "Will you
taste it, and see if it is right?"

He was so conscious of the tremor of her voice and hand that he made
haste to reassure her, sipping his tea with much politeness of manner;
as he did so, she said, suddenly, and with compelling loudness, "Is
it--agreeable?"

John Fenn, startled, looked at her over the rim of his cup.  "Very;
very indeed," he said, quickly.  But he instantly drank some water. "It
is, perhaps, a little strong," he said, blinking. Then, having
qualified his politeness for conscience' sake, he drank all the bitter
tea for human kindness' sake--for evidently Miss Philippa had taken
pains to give him what he might like.  After that she did not speak,
but her face grew very rosy while she sat in silence listening to her
father and their guest. Henry Roberts forgot to eat, in the passion of
his theological arguments, but as supper proceeded he found his
antagonist less alert than usual; the minister defended his own
doctrines instead of attacking those of his host; he even admitted, a
little listlessly, that if the Power fell upon him, if he himself spoke
in a strange tongue, then perhaps he would believe--"that is, if I
could be sure I was not out of my mind at the time," he qualified,
dully.  Philippa took no part in the discussion; it would not have been
thought becoming in her to do so; but indeed, she hardly heard what the
two men were saying. She helped old Hannah carry away the dishes, and
then sat down by the table and drew the lamp near her so that she could
sew; she sat there smiling a little, dimpling even, and looking down at
her seam; she did not notice that John Fenn was being worsted, or that
once he failed altogether to reply, and sat in unprotesting silence
under Henry Roberts's rapt remembrances. A curious blackness had
settled under his eyes, and twice he passed his hand across his lips.

"They are numb," he said, in surprised apology to his host.  A moment
later he shivered violently, beads of sweat burst out on his forehead,
and the color swept from his face. He started up, staring wildly about
him; he tried to speak, but his words stumbled into incoherent
babbling. It was all so sudden, his rising, then falling back into his
chair, then slipping sidewise and crumpling up upon the floor, all the
while stammering unmeaning words--that Henry Roberts sat looking at him
in dumb amazement. It was Philippa who cried out and ran forward to
help him, then stopped midway, her hands clutched together at her
throat, her eyes dilating with a horror that seemed to paralyze her so
that she was unable to move to his assistance.  The shocked silence of
the moment was broken by Fenn's voice, trailing on and on, in totally
unintelligible words.

Henry Roberts, staring open-mouthed, suddenly spoke: "The VOICE!" he
said. But Philippa, as though she were breaking some invisible bond
that held her, groaning even with the effort of it, said, in a whisper:
"No. Not that. He is dying.  Don't you see? That's what it is.  He is
dying."

Her father, shocked from his ecstasy, ran to John Fenn's side, trying
to lift him and calling upon him to say what was the matter.

"He is going to die," said Philippa, monotonously.

Henry Roberts, aghast, calling loudly to old Hannah, ran to the kitchen
and brought back a great bowl of hot water. "Drink it!" he said. "Drink
it, I tell ye! I believe you're poisoned!"

And while he and Hannah bent over the unconscious young man, Philippa
seemed to come out of her trance; slowly, with upraised hands, and head
bent upon her breast, she stepped backward, backward, out of the room,
out of the house.  On the doorstep, in the darkness, she paused and
listened for several minutes to certain dreadful sounds in the house.
Then, suddenly, a passion of purpose swept the daze of horror away.

"HE SHALL NOT DIE," she said.

She flung her skirt across her arm that her feet might not be hampered,
and fled down the road toward Old Chester.  It was very dark. At first
her eyes, still blurred with the lamplight, could not distinguish the
footpath, and she stumbled over the grassy border into the wheel-ruts;
then, feeling the loose dust under her feet, she ran and ran and ran.
The blood began to sing in her ears; once her throat seemed to close so
that she could not breathe, and for a moment she had to walk,--but her
hands, holding up her skirts, trembled with terror at the delay. The
road was very dark under the sycamore-trees; twice she tripped and fell
into the brambles at one side or against a gravelly bank on the other.
But stumbling somehow to her feet, again she ran and ran and ran.  The
night was very still; she could hear her breath tearing her throat;
once she felt something hot and salty in her mouth; it was then she had
to stop and walk for a little space--she must walk or fall down!  And
she could not fall down, no! no! no! he would die if she fell down!
Once a figure loomed up in the haze, and she caught the glimmer of an
inquisitive eye.  "Say," a man's voice said, "where are you bound for?"
There was something in the tone that gave her a stab of fright; for a
minute or two her feet seemed to fly, and she heard a laugh behind her
in the darkness:  "What's your hurry?" the voice called after her.  And
still she ran.  But she was saying to herself that she must STOP; she
must stand still just for a moment.  "Oh, just for a minute?" her body
whimperingly entreated; she would not listen to it!  She must not
listen, even though her heart burst with the strain.  But her body had
its way, and she fell into a walk, although she was not aware of it.
In a gasping whisper she was saying, over and over: "Doctor, hurry;
he'll die; hurry; I killed him."  She tried to be silent, but her lips
moved mechanically. "Doctor, hurry; he'll--Oh, I MUSTN'T talk!" she
told herself, "it takes my breath"--but still her lips moved. She began
to run, heavily.  "I can't talk--if--I--run--"  It was then that she
saw a glimmer of light and knew that she was almost in Old Chester.
Very likely she would have fallen if she had not seen that far-off
window just when she did.

At William King's house she dropped against the door, her fingers still
clinging to the bell.  She was past speaking when the doctor lifted her
and carried her into the office.  "No; don't try to tell me what it
is," he said; "I'll put Jinny into the buggy, and we'll get back in a
jiffy. I understand; Hannah is worse."

"Not... Hannah--"

"Your father?" he said, picking up his medicine-case.

"Not father; Mr.--Fenn--"

As the doctor hurried out to the stable to hitch up he bade his wife
put certain remedies into his bag,--"and look after that child," he
called over his shoulder to his efficient Martha. She was so efficient
that when he had brought Jinny and the buggy to the door, Philly was
able to gasp out that Mr. Fenn was sick. "Dying."

"Don't try to talk," he said again, as he helped her into the buggy.
But after a while she was able to tell him, hoarsely:

"I wanted him to love me."  William King was silent.  "I used a charm.
It was wicked."

"Come, come; not wicked," said the doctor; "a little foolish, perhaps.
A new frock, and a rose in your hair, and a smile at another man, would
be enough of a charm, my dear."

Philippa shook her head.  "It was not enough. I wore my best frock, and
I went to Dr. Lavendar's church--"

"Good gracious!" said William King.

"They were not enough. So I used a charm.  I made a drink--"

"Ah!" said the doctor, frowning. "What was in the drink, Miss Philly?"

"Perhaps it was not the right herb," she said; "it may have been
'mother-wort'; but the book said 'monk's-hood,' and I--"

William King reached for his whip and cut Jinny across the flanks.
"ACONITE!" he said under his breath, while Jinny leaped forward in
shocked astonishment.

"Will he live?" said Philippa. Dr. King, flecking Jinny again, and
letting his reins hang over the dashboard, could not help putting a
comforting arm around her.  "I hope so," he said; "I hope so!"  After
all, there was no use telling the child that probably by this time her
lover was either dead or getting better.  "It's his own fault," William
King thought, angrily. "Why in thunder didn't he fall in love like a
man, instead of making the child resort to--G'on, Jinny!  G'on!" He
still had the whip in his hand when they drew up at the gate.


CHAPTER IV

When Philippa Roberts had fled out into the night for help, her father
and old Hannah were too alarmed to notice her absence.  They went
hurrying back and forth with this remedy and that.  Again and again
they were ready to give up; once Henry Roberts said, "He is gone!" and
once Hannah began to cry, and said, "Poor lad, poor boy!"  Yet each
made one more effort, their shadows looming gigantic against the walls
or stretching across the ceiling, bending and sinking as they knelt
beside the poor young man, who by that time was beyond speech.  So the
struggle went on.  But little by little life began to gain.  John
Fenn's eyes opened.  Then he smiled. Then he said something-they could
not hear what.

"Bless the Lord!" said Henry Roberts.

"He's asking for Philly," said old Hannah.  By the time the doctor and
Philippa reached the house the shadow of death had lifted.

"It must have been poison," Mr. Roberts told the doctor.  "When he gets
over it he will tell us what it was."

"I don't believe he will," said William King; he was holding Fenn's
wrist between his firm fingers, and then he turned up a fluttering
eyelid and looked at the still dulled eye.

Philippa, kneeling on the other side of John Fenn, said loudly:  "I
will tell HIM--and perhaps God will forgive me."

The doctor, glancing up at her, said: "No, you won't--anyhow at
present. Take that child up-stairs, Hannah," he commanded, "and put her
to bed. She ran all the way to Old Chester to get me," he explained to
Henry Roberts.

Before he left the house that night he sat for a few minutes at
Philippa's bedside. "My dear little girl," he said, in his kind,
sensible voice, "the best thing to do is to forget it.  It was a
foolish thing to do--that charm business; but happily no harm is done.
Now say nothing about it, and never do it again."

Philippa turned her shuddering face away. "Do it again? OH!"

As William King went home he apologized to Jinny for that cut across
her flanks by hanging the reins on the overhead hook, and letting her
plod along at her own pleasure.  He was saying to himself that he hoped
he had done right to tell the child to hold her tongue. "It was just
tomfoolery," he argued; "there was no sin about it, so confession
wouldn't do her any good; on the contrary, it would hurt a girl's
self-respect to have a man know she had tried to catch him. But what a
donkey he was not to see....  Oh yes; I'm sure I'm right," said William
King. "I wonder how Dr. Lavendar would look at it?"

Philippa, at any rate, was satisfied with his advice.  Perhaps the
story of what she had done might have broken from her pale lips had her
father asked any questions; but Henry Roberts had retreated into
troubled silence. There had been one wonderful moment when he thought
that at last his faith was to be justified and by the unbeliever
himself! and he had cried out, with a passion deferred for more than
thirty years: "The VOICE!"  But behold, the voice, babbling and
meaningless, was nothing but sickness.  No one could guess what the
shock of that disappointment was.  He was not able even to speak of it.
So Philippa was asked no awkward questions, and her self-knowledge
burned deep into her heart.

In the next few days, while the minister was slowly recovering in the
great four-poster in Henry Roberts's guest-room, she listened to
Hannah's speculations as to the cause of his attack, and expressed no
opinion.  She was dumb when John Fenn tried to tell her how grateful he
was to her for that terrible run through the darkness for his sake.

"You should not be grateful," she said, at last, in a whisper.

But he was grateful; and, furthermore, he was very happy in those days
of slow recovery.  The fact was that that night, when he had been so
near death, he had heard Philippa, in his first dim moments of
returning consciousness, stammering out those distracted words:
"Perhaps God will forgive me." To John Fenn those words meant the
crowning of all his efforts: she had repented!

"Truly," he said, lying very white and feeble on his pillow and looking
into Philly's face when she brought him his gruel, "truly,

  "He moves in a mysterious way
  His wonders to perform!"

The "mysterious way" was the befalling of that terrible illness in
Henry Roberts's house, so that Philippa should be impressed by it.  "If
my affliction has been blessed to any one else, I am glad to have
suffered it," he said.

Philippa silently put a spoonful of gruel between his lips; he
swallowed it as quickly as he could. "I heard you call upon God for
forgiveness; the Lord is merciful and gracious!"

Philly said, very low, "Yes; oh YES." So John Fenn thanked God and took
his gruel, and thought it was very good. He thought, also, that Miss
Philippa was very good to be so good to him. In those next few days,
before he was strong enough to be moved back to his own house, he
thought more of her goodness and less of her salvation.  It was then
that he had his great moment, his revealing moment!  All of a sudden,
at the touch of Life, his honest artificiality had dropped from him,
and he knew that he had never before known anything worth knowing!  He
knew he was in love.  He knew it when he realized that he was not in
the least troubled about her soul.  "That is what she meant!" he
thought; "she wanted me to care for her, before I cared for her soul."
He was so simple in his acceptance of the revelation that she loved
him, that when he went to ask her to be his wife the blow of her reply
almost knocked him back into his ministerial affectations:

"No."

When John Fenn got home that evening he went into his study and shut
the door. Mary came and pounded on it, but he only said, in a muffled
voice:

"No, Mary. Not now. Go away."

He was praying for resignation to what he told himself was the will of
God. "The Lord is unwilling that my thoughts should be diverted from
His service by my own personal happiness."  Then he tried to put his
thoughts on that service by deciding upon a text for his next sermon.
But the texts which suggested themselves were not steadying to his
bewildered mind:

"LOVE ONE ANOTHER."  ("I certainly thought she loved me.")

"MARVEL NOT, MY BRETHREN, IF THE WORLD HATE YOU." ("I am, perhaps,
personally unattractive to her; and yet I wonder why?") He was not a
conceited man; but, like all his sex, he really did "marvel" a little
at the lack of feminine appreciation.  He marveled so much that a week
later he took Mary and walked out to Mr. Roberts's house. This time
Mary, to her disgust, was left with Miss Philly's father, while her
brother and Miss Philly walked in the frosted garden.  Later, when that
walk was over, and the little sister trudged along at John Fenn's side
in the direction of Perryville, she was very fretful because he would
not talk to her.  He was occupied, poor boy, in trying again not to
"marvel," and to be submissive to the divine will.

After that, for several months, he refused Mary's plea to be taken to
visit Miss Philly.  He had, he told himself, "submitted"; but
submission left him very melancholy and solemn, and also a little
resentful; indeed, he was so low in his mind, that once he threw out a
bitter hint to Dr. Lavendar,--who, according to his wont, put two and
two together.

"Men in our profession, sir," said John Fenn, "must not expect personal
happiness."

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, meditatively, "perhaps if we don't expect
it, the surprise of getting it makes it all the better. I expected it;
but I've exceeded my expectations!"

"But you are not married," the young man said, impulsively.

Dr. Lavendar's face changed; "I hope you will marry, Fenn," he said,
quietly. At which John Fenn said, "I am married to my profession; that
is enough for any minister."

"You'll find your profession a mighty poor housekeeper," said Dr.
Lavendar.

It was shortly after this that Mr. Fenn and his big roan broke through
the snow-drifts and made their way to Henry Roberts's house. "I must
speak to you alone, sir," he said to the Irvingite, who, seeing him
approaching, had hastened to open the door for him and draw him in out
of the cold sunshine.

What the caller had to say was brief and to the point: Why was his
daughter so unkind?  John Fenn did not feel now that the world--which
meant Philippa--hated him.  He felt--he could not help feeling--that
she did not even dislike him; "on the contrary...."  So what reason had
she for refusing him? But old Mr. Roberts shook his head. "A young
female does not have 'reasons,'" he said.  But he was sorry for the
youth, and he roused himself from his abstraction long enough to
question his girl:

"He is a worthy young man, my Philippa.  Why do you dislike him?"

"I do not dislike him."

"Then why--?" - Is you to put out another sermon - exclaimed the count. - Nothing
sermons - answered D.

Luis very calm -.

The evil effects which had preached to me that the last evidence
has proven that God does not call me on this path, and I have chosen
another.

You, Mr Count has made my conversion.

He hanged habits, I amuse myself, I'm in the prime of mocedad and
I enjoy it. - Come on, I'm glad - interrupted the count - but
careful, boy, that if the flower is delicate and can fade defoliated
early. - I will take care of it myself - retorted D.

Luis -. I see a play. I feel inspired. You size. Do you, count, which
would have driven me to joke - would joke, huh?

You! has dined strong! - I dined what has given me the win. - Respondonzuelo
becomes the boy. - I do what I want. - ...-- vote will count said, and
felt coming storm, when the captain was made and peace was restored
completely. - Ea - said the count, relaxed and friendly - you
desembaúle and try the dinerillos fortune.

Don Luis sat at the table and pulled out all his pocket money. His
look calmly finished the count, because they almost exceeded that
amount to the bank that he had, and figured that would earn the
rookie. - There must be very hot head in the game - said D.

Luis -. I seem to understand. I put money into a letter, and if you leave
the letter, I win, and if it goes the other way, you win - That's
right, buddy, you have an understanding male.

Lavendar admitted; "but it's better
than--well, I don't know the terms of your trade, Willy-but I guess you
know what I mean?"

"I guess I do," said William King, thoughtfully.  "Do you suppose it's
too late now?"

"It will be more of an operation," Dr. Lavendar conceded.

"Could I tell him?" William said, after a while.

"I don't see why not," Dr. Lavendar said.

"I suppose I'd have to ask her permission?"

"Nonsense!" said Dr. Lavendar.

That talk between the physician of the soul and the physician of the
body happened on the very night when John Fenn, in his study in
Perryville, with Mary dozing on his knee, threw over, once and for all,
what he had called "submission" and made up his mind to get his girl!
The very next morning he girded himself and walked forth upon the Pike
toward Henry Roberts's house. He did not take Mary with him,--but not
because he meant to urge salvation on Miss Philly!  As it happened, Dr.
This time, however, was now over. The situation had changed. The Vladika
knew that his people after so much bloodshed and so many hostilities
with the French are not happy with the same heart now an alliance would
close. He knew too well the character of this simple people, not his
feelings after diplomatic considerations, but after an inborn justice
scale regulated. These people could not now be someone's friend,
the enemy had been there yesterday. III. The struggles to Tilsit peace
8. Preparing for the new challenge.

In Slavic camp Castelnuovo awaited with impatience the answer of
the Czar on the grounds of non-delivery of the petition sent Bocca,
Lauriston negotiations failed everywhere. He gave it to, or better
said, he handed them to the just-arrived Generalissimo of the
French army for Dalmatia, the General Marmont.

On 2 August reached on this in Ragusa. He found, as he himself claimed,
[37] the army in a very miserable condition. The French troops in
Dalmatia from the funds should be allocated to them from the military
camp in Italy got. The support, however, was flawed and irregular.
The commissioners of war, the food from Italy expedierten and those
who received the same in Dalmatia, the Army provided the spoiled grain.

The doctor looked at him wonderingly; it occurred to him that if he had
a daughter he would understand her better than Philly's father
understood her.  "I think the child cares for him," he said; then,
hesitatingly, he referred to John Fenn's sickness.  "I suppose you know
about it?" he said.

Philly's father bent his head; he knew, he thought, only too well; no
divine revelation in a disordered digestion!

"Don't you think," William King said, smiling, "you might try to make
her feel that she is wrong not to accept him, now that the charm has
worked, so to speak?"

"The charm?" the old man repeated, vaguely.

"I thought you understood," the doctor said, frowning; then, after a
minute's hesitation, he told him the facts.

Henry Roberts stared at him, shocked and silent; his girl, his
Philippa, to have done such a thing!  "So great a sin--my little
Philly!" he said, faintly. He was pale with distress.

"My dear sir," Dr. King protested, impatiently, "don't talk about SIN
in connection with that child. I wish I'd held my tongue!"

Henry Roberts was silent.  Philippa's share in John Fenn's mysterious
illness removed it still further from that revelation, waited for
during all these years with such passionate patience. He paid no
attention to William King's reassurances; and his silence was so
silencing that by and by the doctor stopped talking and looked down
into the garden again.  He observed that those two heads had not drawn
any nearer together.  It was not John Fenn's fault....

"There can be no good reason," he was saying to Philippa. "If it is a
bad reason, I will overcome it! Tell me why?"

She put her hand up to her lips and trembled.

"Come," he said; "it is my due, Philippa.  I WILL know!"

Philippa shook her head.  He took her other hand and stroked it, as one
might stroke a child's hand to comfort and encourage it.

"You must tell me, beloved," he said. Philippa looked at him with
scared eyes; then, suddenly pulling her hands from his and turning
away, she covered her face and burst into uncontrollable sobbing.  He,
confounded and frightened, followed her and tried to soothe her.

"Never mind, Philly, never mind! if you don't want to tell me--"

"I do want to tell you.  I will tell you!  You will despise me.  But I
will tell you.  I DID A WICKED DEED.  It was this very plant-here,
where we stand, monk's-hood!  It was poison.  I didn't know--oh, I
didn't know.  Without being seen, the bustle does not die as they were
in the game, D.

Luis saw, and just saw them again to leave the casino, and went quickly
to his house. A servant opened the door, asked D. Luis by his father,
and knowing that sleep, for you do not feel nor woke, jumped D. Luis on
tiptoe to his room with a light, collected about three thousand
who had his real unusual, gold, and are stored in your pocket.

He then raised it to re-open, and went to the casino again.

Then D. Luis played in the room, giving taconazos rices with estruendo
taco and air, as the saying goes. The players were stunned to see
him. - You here at this hour!

- Currito said. - Where did you leave, bandaid?
she said, heavily.

"It makes much difference to me," he answered; he put his hand on her
soft hair and tried to press her head down again on his shoulder.  But
she drew away.

"No; no."

"But--" he began.  She interrupted him.

"Listen," she said; and then, sometimes in a whisper, sometimes
breaking into a sob, she told him the story of that November night.  He
could hardly hear it through.

"Love, you loved me! You will marry me."

"No; I am a wicked girl--a--a--an immodest girl--"

"My beloved, you meant no wrong--" He paused, seeing that she was not
listening.

Her father and the doctor were coming down the garden path; William
King, beaming with satisfaction at the proximity of those two heads,
had summoned Henry Roberts to "come along and give 'em your blessing!"

Curro tell you: here in this pile of money, is there not only
in banking? Currito looked, and replied: - There is no doubt. -
How do you explain - asked D. Luis - who hit a game that is in the
bank against the same - things are explained - Currito responded -
saying: copo!

- Well, copo - said D.

Luis going to count -; going the codend and the net in this king
of spades, which will make sure your partner before your enemy
epiphany three.

"You
see?" she said.

"No!  No, I don't see--or if I do, never mind."

Just for a moment her face cleared. (Yes, truly, he was not thinking of
her soul now!)  But the gleam faded.  "Oh, father, I am a great
sinner," she whispered.

"No, you're not!" William King said.

"Yes, my Philippa, you are," Henry Roberts agreed, solemnly.

The lover made a despairing gesture: "Doctor King! tell her 'no!' 'no!'"

"Yes," her father went on, "it was a sin. Therefore, Philippa, SIN NO
MORE. Did you pray that this young man's love might be given to you?"

Philippa said, in a whisper, "Yes."

"And it was given to you?"

"Yes."

"Philippa, was it the foolish weed that moved him to love?" She was
silent. "My child, my Philly, it was your Saviour who moved the heart
of this youth, because you asked Him. Will you do such despite to your
Lord as to reject the gift he has given in answer to your prayer?"
Philippa, with parted lips, was listening intently: "The gift He had
given!"

Dr. King dared not speak.  These were forced to leave the promontory
and moved to Molonta strong attachment to their back. But even in the
evening the same day they had to even the Montenegrins soft, with
up to 38 guns and numerous other war material behind, which was
Vladika welcome. The French were always on the edge of the sea coast
and moved slowly back. Only on the _Debeli Breg_, they dared to resist
them, but only for a short time, they continued their flight to
continue.

Add not sin to sin.  Oh, add not sin to sin by
making prayer of no avail!  Behold, He has set before thee an open
door.  Oh, let no man shut it.  Oh, let no man shut it...."

The last word fell into a low, wailing note.  No one spoke.  The bird
rustled in the leaves above them; a butterfly wavered slowly down to
settle on a purple flag in the sunshine.  Philly's eyes filled with
blessed tears.  - If I plucked the boy - he said - God protects the
innocent. While the Count is amostazaba, D. Luis felt tired and wanted
to stop and annoyance at once. - The end of all this - he said - is
to see if I was wearing these funds or if you is mine.

Lavendar--"I just wanted to say 'the voice of COMMON SENSE!'"

"My dear William," said the old man, gently, "the most beautiful thing
in the world is the knowledge that comes to you, when you get to be as
old as I am, that they are the same thing."