E-text prepared by R. W. Jones <rwj@freeshell.org>


Transcriber's note: This file was proofed, using a text-to-speech reader,
                    against the hard copy 2nd. edition published in 1819.
                    No attempt has been made to change the text of any of
                    the quoted verse to reflect later editors' amendments.
                    _Italics_ are indicated thus.  The footnotes are
                    serially numbered from the first to the last Lecture,
                    unlike in the original.


LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH POETS

Delivered at the Surrey Institution

by

WILLIAM HAZLITT


CONTENTS.


   LECTURE I.
   INTRODUCTORY.--ON POETRY IN GENERAL.

   LECTURE II.
   ON CHAUCER AND SPENSER.

   LECTURE III.
   ON SHAKSPEARE AND MILTON.

   LECTURE IV.
   ON DRYDEN AND POPE.

   LECTURE V.
   ON THOMSON AND COWPER.

   LECTURE VI.
   ON SWIFT, YOUNG, GRAY, COLLINS &c.

   LECTURE VII.
   ON BURNS, AND THE OLD ENGLISH BALLADS.

   LECTURE VIII.
   ON THE LIVING POETS.


LECTURE I.--INTRODUCTORY
ON POETRY IN GENERAL.


The best general notion which I can give of poetry is, that it is the
natural impression of any object or event, by its vividness exciting an
involuntary movement of imagination and passion, and producing, by
sympathy, a certain modulation of the voice, or sounds, expressing it.

In treating of poetry, I shall speak first of the subject-matter of
it, next of the forms of expression to which it gives birth, and
afterwards of its connection with harmony of sound.

Poetry is the language of the imagination and the passions.  It
relates to whatever gives immediate pleasure or pain to the human mind.
It comes home to the bosoms and businesses of men; for nothing but what
so comes home to them in the most general and intelligible shape, can be
a subject for poetry.  Poetry is the universal language which the heart
holds with nature and itself.  He who has a contempt for poetry, cannot
have much respect for himself, or for any thing else.  It is not a mere
frivolous accomplishment, (as some persons have been led to imagine) the
trifling amusement of a few idle readers or leisure hours--it has been
the study and delight of mankind in all ages.  Many people suppose that
poetry is something to be found only in books, contained in lines of ten
syllables, with like endings: but wherever there is a sense of beauty,
or power, or harmony, as in the motion of a wave of the sea, in the
growth of a flower that "spreads its sweet leaves to the air, and
dedicates its beauty to the sun,"--_there_ is poetry, in its birth.  If
history is a grave study, poetry may be said to be a graver: its
materials lie deeper, and are spread wider.  History treats, for the most
part, of the cumbrous and unwieldly masses of things, the empty cases in
which the affairs of the world are packed, under the heads of intrigue
or war, in different states, and from century to century: but there is
no thought or feeling that can have entered into the mind of man, which
he would be eager to communicate to others, or which they would listen
to with delight, that is not a fit subject for poetry.  It is not a
branch of authorship: it is "the stuff of which our life is made." The
rest is "mere oblivion," a dead letter: for all that is worth
remembering in life, is the poetry of it.  Fear is poetry, hope is
poetry, love is poetry, hatred is poetry; contempt, jealousy, remorse,
admiration, wonder, pity, despair, or madness, are all poetry.  Poetry is
that fine particle within us, that expands, rarefies, refines, raises
our whole being: without it "man's life is poor as beast's." Man is a
poetical animal: and those of us who do not study the principles of
poetry, act upon them all our lives, like Moliere's _Bourgeois
Gentilhomme_, who had always spoken prose without knowing it.  The child
is a poet in fact, when he first plays at hide-and-seek, or repeats the
story of Jack the Giant-killer; the shepherd-boy is a poet, when he
first crowns his mistress with a garland of flowers; the countryman,
when he stops to look at the rainbow; the city-apprentice, when he gazes
after the Lord-Mayor's show; the miser, when he hugs his gold; the
courtier, who builds his hopes upon a smile; the savage, who paints his
idol with blood; the slave, who worships a tyrant, or the tyrant, who
fancies himself a god;--the vain, the ambitious, the proud, the
choleric man, the hero and the coward, the beggar and the king, the rich
and the poor, the young and the old, all live in a world of their own
making; and the poet does no more than describe what all the others
think and act.  If his art is folly and madness, it is folly and madness
at second hand.  "There is warrant for it." Poets alone have not "such
seething brains, such shaping fantasies, that apprehend more than cooler
reason" can.

      "The lunatic, the lover, and the poet
      Are of imagination all compact.
      One sees more devils than vast hell can hold;
      The madman.  While the lover, all as frantic,
      Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt.
      The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
      Doth glance from heav'n to earth, from earth to heav'n;
      And as imagination bodies forth
      The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
      Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing
      A local habitation and a name.
      Such tricks hath strong imagination."

If poetry is a dream, the business of life is much the same.  If it is
a fiction, made up of what we wish things to be, and fancy that they
are, because we wish them so, there is no other nor better reality.
Ariosto has described the loves of Angelica and Medoro: but was not
Medoro, who carved the name of his mistress on the barks of trees, as
much enamoured of her charms as he? Homer has celebrated the anger of
Achilles: but was not the hero as mad as the poet? Plato banished the
poets from his Commonwealth, lest their descriptions of the natural man
should spoil his mathematical man, who was to be without passions and
affections, who was neither to laugh nor weep, to feel sorrow nor anger,
to be cast down nor elated by any thing.  This was a chimera, however,
which never existed but in the brain of the inventor; and Homer's
poetical world has outlived Plato's philosophical Republic.

Poetry then is an imitation of nature, but the imagination and the
passions are a part of man's nature.  We shape things according to our
wishes and fancies, without poetry; but poetry is the most emphatical
language that can be found for those creations of the mind "which
ecstacy is very cunning in." Neither a mere description of natural
objects, nor a mere delineation of natural feelings, however distinct or
forcible, constitutes the ultimate end and aim of poetry, without the
heightenings of the imagination.  The light of poetry is not only a
direct but also a reflected light, that while it shews us the object,
throws a sparkling radiance on all around it: the flame of the passions,
communicated to the imagination, reveals to us, as with a flash of
lightning, the inmost recesses of thought, and penetrates our whole
being.  Poetry represents forms chiefly as they suggest other forms;
feelings, as they suggest forms or other feelings.  Poetry puts a spirit
of life and motion into the universe.  It describes the flowing, not the
fixed.  It does not define the limits of sense, or analyze the
distinctions of the understanding, but signifies the excess of the
imagination beyond the actual or ordinary impression of any object or
feeling.  The poetical impression of any object is that uneasy, exquisite
sense of beauty or power that cannot be contained within itself; that is
impatient of all limit; that (as flame bends to flame) strives to link
itself to some other image of kindred beauty or grandeur; to enshrine
itself, as it were, in the highest forms of fancy, and to relieve the
aching sense of pleasure by expressing it in the boldest manner, and by
the most striking examples of the same quality in other instances.
Poetry, according to Lord Bacon, for this reason, "has something divine
in it, because it raises the mind and hurries it into sublimity, by
conforming the shows of things to the desires of the soul, instead of
subjecting the soul to external things, as reason and history do." It is
strictly the language of the imagination; and the imagination is that
faculty which represents objects, not as they are in themselves, but as
they are moulded by other thoughts and feelings, into an infinite
variety of shapes and combinations of power.  This language is not the
less true to nature, because it is false in point of fact; but so much
the more true and natural, if it conveys the impression which the object
under the influence of passion makes on the mind.  Let an object, for
instance, be presented to the senses in a state of agitation or fear--
and the imagination will distort or magnify the object, and convert it
into the likeness of whatever is most proper to encourage the fear.  "Our
eyes are made the fools" of our other faculties.  This is the universal
law of the imagination,

      "That if it would but apprehend some joy,
      It comprehends some bringer of that joy:
      Or in the night imagining some fear,
      How easy is each bush suppos'd a bear!"

When Iachimo says of Imogen,

            "------The flame o' th' taper
      Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids
      To see the enclosed lights"--

this passionate interpretation of the motion of the flame to accord with
the speaker's own feelings, is true poetry.  The lover, equally with the
poet, speaks of the auburn tresses of his mistress as locks of shining
gold, because the least tinge of yellow in the hair has, from novelty
and a sense of personal beauty, a more lustrous effect to the
imagination than the purest gold.  We compare a man of gigantic stature
to a tower: not that he is any thing like so large, but because the
excess of his size beyond what we are accustomed to expect, or the usual
size of things of the same class, produces by contrast a greater feeling
of magnitude and ponderous strength than another object of ten times the
same dimensions.  The intensity of the feeling makes up for the
disproportion of the objects.  Things are equal to the imagination, which
have the power of affecting the mind with an equal degree of terror,
admiration, delight, or love.  When Lear calls upon the heavens to avenge
his cause, "for they are old like him," there is nothing extravagant or
impious in this sublime identification of his age with theirs; for there
is no other image which could do justice to the agonising sense of his
wrongs and his despair!

Poetry is the high-wrought enthusiasm of fancy and feeling.  As in
describing natural objects, it impregnates sensible impressions with the
forms of fancy, so it describes the feelings of pleasure or pain, by
blending them with the strongest movements of passion, and the most
striking forms of nature.  Tragic poetry, which is the most impassioned
species of it, strives to carry on the feeling to the utmost point of
sublimity or pathos, by all the force of comparison or contrast; loses
the sense of present suffering in the imaginary exaggeration of it;
exhausts the terror or pity by an unlimited indulgence of it; grapples
with impossibilities in its desperate impatience of restraint; throws us
back upon the past, forward into the future; brings every moment of our
being or object of nature in startling review before us; and in the
rapid whirl of events, lifts us from the depths of woe to the highest
contemplations on human life.  When Lear says of Edgar, "Nothing but his
unkind daughters could have brought him to this;" what a bewildered
amazement, what a wrench of the imagination, that cannot be brought to
conceive of any other cause of misery than that which has bowed it down,
and absorbs all other sorrow in its own! His sorrow, like a flood,
supplies the sources of all other sorrow.  Again, when he exclaims in the
mad scene, "The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanche, and Sweetheart, see,
they bark at me!" it is passion lending occasion to imagination to make
every creature in league against him, conjuring up ingratitude and
insult in their least looked-for and most galling shapes, searching
every thread and fibre of his heart, and finding out the last remaining
image of respect or attachment in the bottom of his breast, only to
torture and kill it! In like manner, the "So I am" of Cordelia gushes
from her heart like a torrent of tears, relieving it of a weight of love
and of supposed ingratitude, which had pressed upon it for years.  What a
fine return of the passion upon itself is that in Othello--with what a
mingled agony of regret and despair he clings to the last traces of
departed happiness--when he exclaims,

                     ------"Oh now, for ever
      Farewel the tranquil mind.  Farewel content;
      Farewel the plumed troops and the big war,
      That make ambition virtue!  Oh farewel!
      Farewel the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
      The spirit-stirring drum, th' ear-piercing fife,
      The royal banner, and all quality,
      Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war:
      And O you mortal engines, whose rude throats
      Th' immortal Jove's dread clamours counterfeit,
      Farewel! Othello's occupation's gone!"

How his passion lashes itself up and swells and rages like a tide in
its sounding course, when in answer to the doubts expressed of his
returning love, he says,

      "Never, Iago.  Like to the Pontic sea,
      Whose icy current and compulsive course
      Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
      To the Propontic and the Hellespont:
      Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
      Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
      Till that a capable and wide revenge
      Swallow them up."--

The climax of his expostulation afterwards with Desdemona is at that
line [sic],

      "But there where I had garner'd up my heart,
      To be discarded thence!"--

One mode in which the dramatic exhibition of passion excites our
sympathy without raising our disgust is, that in proportion as it
sharpens the edge of calamity and disappointment, it strengthens the
desire of good.  It enhances our consciousness of the blessing, by making
us sensible of the magnitude of the loss.  The storm of passion lays bare
and shews us the rich depths of the human soul: the whole of our
existence, the sum total of our passions and pursuits, of that which we
desire and that which we dread, is brought before us by contrast; the
action and re-action are equal; the keenness of immediate suffering only
gives us a more intense aspiration after, and a more intimate
participation with the antagonist world of good; makes us drink deeper
of the cup of human life; tugs at the heart-strings; loosens the
pressure about them; and calls the springs of thought and feeling into
play with tenfold force.

Impassioned poetry is an emanation of the moral and intellectual part
of our nature, as well as of the sensitive--of the desire to know, the
will to act, and the power to feel; and ought to appeal to these
different parts of our constitution, in order to be perfect.  The
domestic or prose tragedy, which is thought to be the most natural, is
in this sense the least so, because it appeals almost exclusively to one
of these faculties, our sensibility.  The tragedies of Moore and Lillo,
for this reason, however affecting at the time, oppress and lie like a
dead weight upon the mind, a load of misery which it is unable to throw
off: the tragedy of Shakspeare, which is true poetry, stirs our inmost
affections; abstracts evil from itself by combining it with all the
forms of imagination, and with the deepest workings of the heart, and
rouses the whole man within us.

The pleasure, however, derived from tragic poetry, is not any thing
peculiar to it as poetry, as a fictitious and fanciful thing.  It is not
an anomaly of the imagination.  It has its source and ground-work in the
common love of strong excitement.  As Mr. Burke observes, people flock to
see a tragedy; but if there were a public execution in the next street,
the theatre would very soon be empty.  It is not then the difference
between fiction and reality that solves the difficulty.  Children are
satisfied with the stories of ghosts and witches in plain prose: nor do
the hawkers of full, true, and particular accounts of murders and
executions about the streets, find it necessary to have them turned into
penny ballads, before they can dispose of these interesting and
authentic documents.  The grave politician drives a thriving trade of
abuse and calumnies poured out against those whom he makes his enemies
for no other end than that he may live by them.  The popular preacher
makes less frequent mention of heaven than of hell.  Oaths and nicknames
are only a more vulgar sort of poetry or rhetoric.  We are as fond of
indulging our violent passions as of reading a description of those of
others.  We are as prone to make a torment of our fears, as to luxuriate
in our hopes of good.  If it be asked, Why we do so? the best answer will
be, Because we cannot help it.  The sense of power is as strong a
principle in the mind as the love of pleasure.  Objects of terror and
pity exercise the same despotic control over it as those of love or
beauty.  It is as natural to hate as to love, to despise as to admire, to
express our hatred or contempt, as our love or admiration.

      "Masterless passion sways us to the mood
      Of what it likes or loathes."

Not that we like what we loathe; but we like to indulge our hatred
and scorn of it; to dwell upon it, to exasperate our idea of it by every
refinement of ingenuity and extravagance of illustration; to make it a
bugbear to ourselves, to point it out to others in all the splendour of
deformity, to embody it to the senses, to stigmatise it by name, to
grapple with it in thought, in action, to sharpen our intellect, to arm
our will against it, to know the worst we have to contend with, and to
contend with it to the utmost.  Poetry is only the highest eloquence of
passion, the most vivid form of expression that can be given to our
conception of any thing, whether pleasurable or painful, mean or
dignified, delightful or distressing.  It is the perfect coincidence of
the image and the words with the feeling we have, and of which we cannot
get rid in any other way, that gives an instant "satisfaction to the
thought." This is equally the origin of wit and fancy, of comedy and
tragedy, of the sublime and pathetic.  When Pope says of the Lord Mayor's
shew,--

      "Now night descending, the proud scene is o'er,
      But lives in Settle's numbers one day more!"

--when Collins makes Danger, "with limbs of giant mould,"

           ------"Throw him on the steep
      Of some loose hanging rock asleep:"

when Lear calls out in extreme anguish,

      "Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
      How much more hideous shew'st in a child
      Than the sea-monster!"

--the passion of contempt in the one case, of terror in the other, and
of indignation in the last, is perfectly satisfied.  We see the thing
ourselves, and shew it to others as we feel it to exist, and as, in
spite of ourselves, we are compelled to think of it.  The imagination, by
thus embodying and turning them to shape, gives an obvious relief to the
indistinct and importunate cravings of the will.--We do not wish the
thing to be so; but we wish it to appear such as it is.  For knowledge is
conscious power; and the mind is no longer, in this case, the dupe,
though it may be the victim of vice or folly.

Poetry is in all its shapes the language of the imagination and the
passions, of fancy and will.  Nothing, therefore, can be more absurd than
the outcry which has been sometimes raised by frigid and pedantic
critics, for reducing the language of poetry to the standard of common
sense and reason: for the end and use of poetry, "both at the first and
now, was and is to hold the mirror up to nature," seen through the
medium of passion and imagination, not divested of that medium by means
of literal truth or abstract reason.  The painter of history might as
well be required to represent the face of a person who has just trod
upon a serpent with the still-life expression of a common portrait, as
the poet to describe the most striking and vivid impressions which
things can be supposed to make upon the mind, in the language of common
conversation.  Let who will strip nature of the colours and the shapes of
fancy, the poet is not bound to do so; the impressions of common sense
and strong imagination, that is, of passion and indifference, cannot be
the same, and they must have a separate language to do justice to
either.  Our ambassador did not hear any such reply, and understood Lord
Salisbury to consent.

In the mean while, the representatives of Russia and Japan have arrived
in this country, and are waiting for the conference to begin.

The English papers express themselves as being very pleased that England
has refused to be present at the meeting. They insist that
we were setting a trap for England, and trying to get her to say or
do something at the conference which would let us out of paying the
$425,000 of the Paris award.

This is unkind of them, and not quite fair to us. By looking at page
926, you will see that it was agreed that about $425,000 should be
paid to Canada as damages for keeping her out of the Bering Sea. This
sum was to be paid subject to the approval of Congress.

When Congress came to look into the matter, it was found that Canada was
not dealing quite fairly with us. A number of false claims were set up,
and we were asked to pay for damage we had never done. A committee was
appointed to look into the various claims, and is still at work on
them.
As soon as these matters are thoroughly sifted, the just claims will be
paid.

It does not seem right to accuse us of trying to avoid paying our debts
because we want the items of every bill we are asked to pay. Every business
man throughout the country likes to know what he is paying for before
he parts with his good money, and why should a nation be less careful
than an individual?

* * * * *
Since the Greek Boulé accepted the terms of the treaty of peace,
the business of settling these unfortunate affairs has been proceeding
without any further hitch.

      The new Prime Minister declared on
      his accepting office that his first act should be to secure the
evacuation of Thessaly, that is, the removal of the Turkish troops.

He has set himself a task that would seem to be very difficult to perform,
for it is reported that the Sultan has sent twenty thousand fresh troops
into the territory within the last few days.

The explanation he gives for this act, which looks very like a
breach of faith with the Powers, is that he has sent these men to
replace the invalid and disabled soldiers who are among his troops.

The necessity for such action is not apparent to the European governments,
as the terms of peace had been agreed on, and Greece had accepted them,
so it did not seem as though the Sultan needed to keep a strong fighting
force in Thessaly.

People in Europe are daily growing more fearful that the Sultan does not
mean to keep his promises, and that he will force Greece to pay the large
war indemnity, while he keeps possession of Thessaly, and rules the
Cretans in exactly the same cruel manner that he did before the war.

A French journal has published an interesting account of the Sultan as a
man.

      The writer describes Abdul Hamid as a man
      who has so many sides that it is impossible to say just what he
is or is not.

He is kind, amiable, and even attentive to those he likes, and takes
pleasure in showering them with gifts, going to the trouble of
finding out what present will be most acceptable to the recipients of
his favors. At the same time he has such a frightful temper that his
ministers are afraid of him.

Abdul Hamid seems to be a very vain man, and likes to create an immense
impression on his visitors. Any one who is to be admitted to the
presence of the Sultan is therefore conducted through beautiful gardens
and pavilions, past lines of fierce-looking soldiers, and on into a
palace blazing with gold and splendor. Gradually his imagination is
wrought up to such a pitch that he pictures the sovereign he is about
to meet as a person robed in all the gorgeousness of the East, glittering
with jewels, and a sort of Arabian-Nights figure of such splendor
that he will hardly be able to rest his dazzled eyes upon him.

Instead, he is finally conducted into an apartment more beautiful
and gilded than any of the others.

      Mirrors reflect the light and splendor
      from side to side, until it appears to
      be a veritable fairyland. And here,
      waiting for the brilliant Sultan to appear
      in all his pomp and majesty, he is suddenly
      confronted by a slight, pale-faced man, dressed entirely in black,
who stands motionless before him, and gazes at him with stony,
expressionless eyes.

The effect is said to be tremendous. Every one who has seen the Sultan
says that this sudden contrast gives an awe-inspiring impression
which it is impossible to describe. One Frenchman whom the Sultan wished
to decorate almost fainted at the sight of the great man.

Those of you who have never approached royalty may fancy this description
is exaggerated. But it is an absolute fact that there is something about
the approach of majesty that stirs your blood, and makes your heart beat
and then stand still, if for one moment the royal gaze rests on
you.

In that moment you understand why men were glad to give up their lives
and their fortunes for the sake of their kings, and you would be glad to
drop on your knee or perform some act of self-abasement to relieve your own
feelings. If these are the sensations that attack men when
ordinary-looking people in ordinary-looking costumes come into the
apartment, how much greater must the effect be after the long theatrical
preparation which the Sultan makes his visitors pass through before they
reach the presence.

The writer we have quoted from thus sums up the character of the
Sultan:

"He is audacious and a coward, a dreamer and a man of business, a miser
and a prodigal, a loving father and a sanguinary monster. In one
day he condemned a nation to be slaughtered, signed a decree about
decorating some ladies, and speculated in stocks, all with the
same peaceful and contented manner

       ."
      * * * * *

There is a report in South Africa that Dr. Jameson, the leader of
the Transvaal Kid, will run for a seat in the Cape Town Assembly at
the next election, and that the chances are that he will be elected by a
large majority.

The Boers are likely to have more trouble with such a firebrand as that
helping to direct the affairs of a neighboring state.

      At the same time the news comes that Mr. Cecil
         Rhodes, the man who is accused of having
      planned the raid, is seriously ill in his
         home in Cape Town, and not expected to live.
      
         * * * * *
      The Government of Siam has looked into the matter of the assault
on Vice-Consul Kellet, and has decided to express regret to our
Government that the trouble occurred.

      We told you about this affair last spring.
       Vice-Consul Kellet went into the interior
      of Siam to settle the estate of Mr. Cheek, an
       American who had died in Siam, and who had
      left directions that Mr. Kellet was to
         arrange his affairs for him.
                                   

While in the performance of this duty, Mr. Kellet was attacked and
beaten by Siamese soldiers.

One of our gunboats, the _Raleigh_, was sent out to Bangkok to investigate
the matter, and to protect the interests of our citizens there.

At the time the trouble occurred, the then Secretary of State,
Mr.
Olney, thought that perhaps Mr. Kellet had been over-hasty, and the
soldiers were not to blame.

The message from Bangkok which now reaches us shows that Mr. Olney was
wrong.

The Siamese Government has decided that the soldiers were in the wrong,
and a lieutenant and four privates who took part in the affair have been
severely reprimanded, and suspended from their regiments without pay
for several months.

The Siamese Government has offered to make the fullest amends for the
outrage, and Consul-General Barret, in his despatches, says that
Mr.
Kellet's conduct throughout was all that could be desired.

The commission sent up to inquire into the matter declared that the
viceroy of the district should have been able to check the ill-feeling
of the soldiers, and he, too, has been reprimanded.

The story of the affair, as it now reaches us, is that Mr. Kellet's
servant was arrested by the native troops who act as police in the town
of Chang Mai, where the Vice-Consul had gone to look into the Cheek
claim. Mr. Kellet's interference on behalf of his servant enraged the
soldiers, who set upon him and beat him severely.

      The Siamese Government has taken
      such a determined stand, and has offered such complete apologies
for the offence, that there is now no ill-feeling about the matter,
and the relations that exist between the two countries are more
friendly than ever.

The king of Siam, Chulalongkorn, who has been travelling through Europe
since the jubilee celebrations, and of whose visit to Italy we told you
in a former number, has made many friends for himself and his country by
his intelligence and his charming manners.

This king has manifested a close interest in the progress of civilization
throughout his travels, and his country will certainly benefit from
his broadened views when he returns home. His two sons are being
educated at Harrow, which is one of the great English public schools,
and the rival of the famous Eton, of which you must have heard.

Public school in England does not mean free school for the benefit
of the public, as it does with us, but a high-class school where
the classics are taught, and which is patronized principally by the
wealthy and titled classes, because the fees are so high that they
are beyond the reach of ordinary people

.

* * * * *
Reports are coming in from various sections of the country of the disastrous
forest fires that are raging.

In Michigan and Indiana, the smoke from these fires is so dense that
it lies over the surface of Lake Michigan like a thick fog, and
the sailors have difficulty in finding their way through it.

      In the southern part of Canada the losses have been terrible from
these fires.

Thousands of dollars' worth of timber has been destroyed, and many persons
have lost their homes and their crops.

In Manitoba the flames are said to be spreading, and there is great fear
that the fire will reach the more thickly populated districts.

Every effort is being made to prevent the fire from getting a start on
the Minnesota side of the boundary, but it is feared that it will be
impossible to do so.

Settlers have been fighting the flames day and night for over a week,
but have made little progress.

Some two thousand Canadians have been rendered homeless and ten
persons have been burned to death.

In their advance the terrible flames have destroyed the towns and
villages that lay in their path, and the report from Ontario alone
states that farms, dwellings, stores, churches, and schools have been
swept away by this dreadful scourge.

The fall of the year is always the time when forest fires are to be
dreaded. In dry seasons like the present, there is always a danger
that some chance spark may light on the fallen leaves and the grass dried
out by the heat of summer, and thus set the forests on fire.

The latter part of this year has been particularly dry. In the
Western and Middle States they say that rain has not been so badly
needed in years. In many sections of the country there has been no
rain for months. Water-courses and wells are reported as dried up, and
many of the live stock are dying, for want of water.

The grass has become so parched and dry that the farmers are having to
feed their stock two months ahead of the usual time, and drive them
miles to water. It is feared that later in the year there will be a
fodder famine.

As a regular thing, the cattle graze in the fields and feed themselves
until the frost comes, when the farmers begin to feed them. Enough
fodder is raised during the season to carry the stock comfortably
through until the grass is up again; but as the corn and roots
are liable to rot or mould, little more is grown than is necessary. You
can see that it is a serious business for the farmers to have had to
touch their winter supplies two months ahead of time.

It is this drought which has caused the forest fires.

      In those sections of the country that have as yet escaped the
fire, the prairies are as dry as tinder, and the owners of the fields
are in constant fear that a spark from a passing locomotive may set
fire to them. Men are kept on the watch night and day to prevent such
a calamity.

The Tonawanda Swamp is also on fire.

Tonawanda is in the northern part of New York State, in the neighborhood
of Buffalo, and is a great lumber town.

The swamp covers twenty-five thousand acres, and adjoining it are many
rich farm lands and valuable buildings.

The underbrush grows so thickly in this swamp that it has always been
necessary to clear it out every little while, and so the people have
been in the habit of setting it on fire every year a few days before the
equinoctial storms were due. They had found from experience that by the
time the storms came the fires had burnt out enough of the undergrowth
for their purpose, and the heavy rains which usually accompany the storms
put the fires out for them.

This year, however, the equinox brought no storm with it, and the lighted
fires have continued to burn with such fierceness that not only the
swamp, but the surrounding country, is in danger of being laid waste.

The equinox is that period in which the sun, in its yearly course, crosses
the equator, and makes the day and the night of equal length.
This occurs twice in the year,--about March 21st and September 22d,--and,
as we have told you, is usually attended by high winds and severe
storms.

In Virginia there is also a serious forest fire. The Dismal Swamp, as it
is called, is on fire. The smoke has become so dense that the people
on the trains which run through are forced to keep all the windows
closed, and even then the smoke is almost unbearable.

The train hands report that the game and wild animals that have
made their homes in the swamp are deserting it and fleeing in all
directions.

              All over these sections
      of the country the constant prayer is for rain, rain,
      rain!
      

Curious, is it not, that in one year we should have had a period of
such heavy rain that dams were burst, rivers overflowed their banks,
and the farmers lost their hay crops, and that this wet season should
have been followed by such a severe drought that the forests have
taken fire!

* * * * *
The latest news from Guatemala is that the government troops who are
supporting Dictator Barrios have succeeded in recapturing the important
city which the rebels had previously taken by storm.

It
is necessary that you know the name of this city, but it is one of the
hardest we have had to encounter so far. Quezaltenango is its name.

(Strange, isn't it, that foreign names should sound so funny
to us, and be so difficult to pronounce? In many foreign tongues the
_e_ is pronounced _a_, and the _a_, _ah_. If you remember this it will
help you to a correct pronunciation of many names and places.)
Quezaltenango being once more in the hands of the Government, Barrios has
plucked up fresh courage, and attacked the insurgents with such vigor
that one wing of their army has been defeated and driven into Mexico.

President Diaz does not, however, intend to allow the
rebels to use his country as a refuge, and he is sending forces
to the frontier to drive them back into Guatemala, to be captured
by Barrios

.
* * * * *
An interesting sham fight took place in Van Cortland Park last
week.
The soldiers were divided into two forces, the attacking and the
defending, and the object of the fight was to see what the commander's
idea of defence would be, in case an enemy attacked the city.
A number of officers from the regular army attended the fight, and
praised our citizen soldiers in high terms for the excellent work
they did during the action.
The attacking party came up from the banks of the Hudson River at
Riverdale, and endeavored to steal down the high-road to Kingsbridge,
where they could cross over the Harlem River, and so find themselves
on Manhattan Island, with the upper part of New York city at their
mercy.
The defenders divided their forces into two divisions,--the army
of the West and the army of the East: the one to check the invaders
if it was their intention to march across the country to New Rochelle,
and the other to prevent any attempt to reach New York city.
The general of the defending army took up his position on Woodlawn
Heights, where he could see just which way the attacking army was
going to move; and finding that the attempt was to be made on New
York, sent troops to the roads and the fields through which the
invaders must try to pass.
So well did he lay his plans that the invaders found themselves
checked at every point. There was not a loophole left unguarded for
them to creep through, and at last, after much good generalship had
been displayed on both sides, the invaders were driven back, and
the defenders claimed the victory.
The sham battle was followed by a review of the troops engaged, and
when it was all over the citizen soldiers returned to the city,
tired and dusty, but proud of their good day's work.
G.H. ROSENFELD.

INVENTION AND DISCOVERY.
An interesting advance in the postal system of our country was made
recently when the first of the pneumatic tubes which are to carry
mail underground from one office to another was declared ready for
use.
Some three hundred prominent men were present to see the first
package of mail matter sent.
[Illustration: Self-Registering Mail Box]
This tube extends from the Produce Exchange to the Post-Office
Building, and the trip can be made from one office to the other in
one minute and a quarter.
Mr. Chauncey Depew was present at the opening ceremonies, and having
made an appropriate speech, sent off the first carrier of mail
matter that passed through the tube.
In less time than it takes to tell the story the carrier returned,
bringing a receipt for the mail that had been sent, and a pretty
little kitten which arrived breathless from its spin through the
tube.
The carriers are two feet long and seven inches round, and are made
to fit the tube closely.
Other tubes are to be laid throughout the city, and before very
long every post-office in the city will be connected with the general
post-office by pneumatic tube, and letters will be posted in Harlem
and sent flying down the seven miles to the City Hall in a few
minutes.
Another ingenious postal device which has just been put on trial
is the scheme for registering letters yourself.
The first thing to do is to put a ten-cent piece in the slot. The
coin opens a small registering window, and reveals a pad on which
you write the address of the registered letter, and also an aperture
through which the letter is to be dropped. The letter must first
have been stamped with a two-cent stamp.
After the letter is mailed the sender pulls a handle until a gong
rings, and a receipt is then pushed out toward the sender. This
receipt is in fact the second half of the order which he himself
has written. As soon as the receipt is given the machine locks
itself, and nothing will unlock it but a fresh dime in the slot.
Worn coins, or those that are not full size and weight, are instantly
rejected by the machine.
The coin, after entering the machine, passes over a very delicate
balance, and if it is found to be light or bad when it is weighed,
the machine throws it out on the floor in front of the would-be
registerer.He describes his heroes going to battle
with a prodigality of life, arising from an exuberance of animal
spirits: we see them before us, their number, and their order of battle,
poured out upon the plain "all plumed like estriches, like eagles newly
bathed, wanton as goats, wild as young bulls, youthful as May, and
gorgeous as the sun at midsummer," covered with glittering armour, with
dust and blood; while the Gods quaff their nectar in golden cups, or
mingle in the fray; and the old men assembled on the walls of Troy rise
up with reverence as Helen passes by them.  The multitude of things in
Homer is wonderful; their splendour, their truth, their force, and
variety.  His poetry is, like his religion, the poetry of number and
form: he describes the bodies as well as the souls of men.

The poetry of the Bible is that of imagination and of faith: it is
abstract and disembodied: it is not the poetry of form, but of power;
not of multitude, but of immensity.  It does not divide into many, but
aggrandizes into one.  Its ideas of nature are like its ideas of God.  It
is not the poetry of social life, but of solitude: each man seems alone
in the world, with the original forms of nature, the rocks, the earth,
and the sky.  It is not the poetry of action or heroic enterprise, but of
faith in a supreme Providence, and resignation to the power that governs
the universe.  As the idea of God was removed farther from humanity, and
a scattered polytheism, it became more profound and intense, as it
became more universal, for the Infinite is present to every thing: "If
we fly into the uttermost parts of the earth, it is there also; if we
turn to the east or the west, we cannot escape from it." Man is thus
aggrandised in the image of his Maker.  The history of the patriarchs is
of this kind; they are founders of a chosen race of people, the
inheritors of the earth; they exist in the generations which are to come
after them.  Their poetry, like their religious creed, is vast, unformed,
obscure, and infinite; a vision is upon it--an invisible hand is
suspended over it.  The spirit of the Christian religion consists in the
glory hereafter to be revealed; but in the Hebrew dispensation,
Providence took an immediate share in the affairs of this life.  Jacob's
dream arose out of this intimate communion between heaven and earth: it
was this that let down, in the sight of the youthful patriarch, a golden
ladder from the sky to the earth, with angels ascending and descending
upon it, and shed a light upon the lonely place, which can never pass
away.  The story of Ruth, again, is as if all the depth of natural
affection in the human race was involved in her breast.  There are
descriptions in the book of Job more prodigal of imagery, more intense
in passion, than any thing in Homer, as that of the state of his
prosperity, and of the vision that came upon him by night.  The metaphors
in the Old Testament are more boldly figurative.  Things were collected
more into masses, and gave a greater _momentum_ to the imagination.

Dante was the father of modern poetry, and he may therefore claim a
place in this connection.  His poem is the first great step from Gothic
darkness and barbarism; and the struggle of thought in it to burst the
thraldom in which the human mind had been so long held, is felt in every
page.  He stood bewildered, not appalled, on that dark shore which
separates the ancient and the modern world; and saw the glories of
antiquity dawning through the abyss of time, while revelation opened its
passage to the other world.  He was lost in wonder at what had been done
before him, and he dared to emulate it.  Dante seems to have been
indebted to the Bible for the gloomy tone of his mind, as well as for
the prophetic fury which exalts and kindles his poetry; but he is
utterly unlike Homer.  His genius is not a sparkling flame, but the
sullen heat of a furnace.  He is power, passion, self-will personified.
In all that relates to the descriptive or fanciful part of poetry, he
bears no comparison to many who had gone before, or who have come after
him; but there is a gloomy abstraction in his conceptions, which lies
like a dead weight upon the mind; a benumbing stupor, a breathless awe,
from the intensity of the impression; a terrible obscurity, like that
which oppresses us in dreams; an identity of interest, which moulds
every object to its own purposes, and clothes all things with the
passions and imaginations of the human soul,--that make amends for all
other deficiencies.  The immediate objects he presents to the mind are
not much in themselves, they want grandeur, beauty, and order; but they
become every thing by the force of the character he impresses upon them.
His mind lends its own power to the objects which it contemplates,
instead of borrowing it from them.  He takes advantage even of the
nakedness and dreary vacuity of his subject.  His imagination peoples the
shades of death, and broods over the silent air.  He is the severest of
all writers, the most hard and impenetrable, the most opposite to the
flowery and glittering; who relies most on his own power, and the sense
of it in others, and who leaves most room to the imagination of his
readers.  Dante's only endeavour is to interest; and he interests by
exciting our sympathy with the emotion by which he is himself possessed.
He does not place before us the objects by which that emotion has been
created; but he seizes on the attention, by shewing us the effect they
produce on his feelings; and his poetry accordingly gives the same
thrilling and overwhelming sensation, which is caught by gazing on the
face of a person who has seen some object of horror.  The improbability
of the events, the abruptness and monotony in the Inferno, are
excessive: but the interest never flags, from the continued earnestness
of the author's mind.  Dante's great power is in combining internal
feelings with external objects.  Thus the gate of hell, on which that
withering inscription is written, seems to be endowed with speech and
consciousness, and to utter its dread warning, not without a sense of
mortal woes.  This author habitually unites the absolutely local and
individual with the greatest wildness and mysticism.  In the midst of the
obscure and shadowy regions of the lower world, a tomb suddenly rises up
with the inscription, "I am the tomb of Pope Anastasius the Sixth": and
half the personages whom he has crowded into the Inferno are his own
acquaintance.  All this, perhaps, tends to heighten the effect by the
bold intermixture of realities, and by an appeal, as it were, to the
individual knowledge and experience of the reader.  He affords few
subjects for picture.  There is, indeed, one gigantic one, that of Count
Ugolino, of which Michael Angelo made a bas-relief, and which Sir Joshua
Reynolds ought not to have painted.

Another writer whom I shall mention last, and whom I cannot persuade
myself to think a mere modern in the groundwork, is Ossian.  He is a
feeling and a name that can never be destroyed in the minds of his
readers.  As Homer is the first vigour and lustihed, Ossian is the decay
and old age of poetry.  He lives only in the recollection and regret of
the past.  There is one impression which he conveys more entirely than
all other poets, namely, the sense of privation, the loss of all things,
of friends, of good name, of country--he is even without God in the
world.  He converses only with the spirits of the departed; with the
motionless and silent clouds.  The cold moonlight sheds its faint lustre
on his head; the fox peeps out of the ruined tower; the thistle waves
its beard to the wandering gale; and the strings of his harp seem, as
the hand of age, as the tale of other times, passes over them, to sigh
and rustle like the dry reeds in the winter's wind! The feeling of
cheerless desolation, of the loss of the pith and sap of existence, of
the annihilation of the substance, and the clinging to the shadow of all
things as in a mock-embrace, is here perfect.  In this way, the
lamentation of Selma for the loss of Salgar is the finest of all.  If it
were indeed possible to shew that this writer was nothing, it would only
be another instance of mutability, another blank made, another void left
in the heart, another confirmation of that feeling which makes him so
often complain, "Roll on, ye dark brown years, ye bring no joy on your
wing to Ossian!"


LECTURE II.
ON CHAUCER AND SPENSER.


Having, in the former Lecture, given some account of the nature of
poetry in general, I shall proceed, in the next place, to a more
particular consideration of the genius and history of English poetry.  I
shall take, as the subject of the present lecture, Chaucer and Spenser,
two out of four of the greatest names in poetry, which this country has
to boast.  Both of them, however, were much indebted to the early poets
of Italy, and may be considered as belonging, in a certain degree, to
the same school.  The freedom and copiousness with which our most
original writers, in former periods, availed themselves of the
productions of their predecessors, frequently transcribing whole
passages, without scruple or acknowledgment, may appear contrary to the
etiquette of modern literature, when the whole stock of poetical
common-places has become public property, and no one is compelled to
trade upon any particular author.  But it is not so much a subject of
wonder, at a time when to read and write was of itself an honorary
distinction, when learning was almost as great a rarity as genius, and
when in fact those who first transplanted the beauties of other
languages into their own, might be considered as public benefactors, and
the founders of a national literature.--There are poets older than
Chaucer, and in the interval between him and Spenser; but their genius
was not such as to place them in any point of comparison with either of
these celebrated men; and an inquiry into their particular merits or
defects might seem rather to belong to the province of the antiquary,
than be thought generally interesting to the lovers of poetry in the
present day.

Chaucer (who has been very properly considered as the father of
English poetry) preceded Spenser by two centuries.  He is supposed to
have been born in London, in the year 1328, during the reign of Edward
III.  and to have died in 1400, at the age of seventy-two.  He received a
learned education at one, or at both of the universities, and travelled
early into Italy, where he became thoroughly imbued with the spirit and
excellences of the great Italian poets and prose-writers, Dante,
Petrarch, and Boccace; and is said to have had a personal interview with
one of these, Petrarch.  He was connected, by marriage, with the famous
John of Gaunt, through whose interest he was introduced into several
public employments.  Chaucer was an active partisan, a religious
reformer, and from the share he took in some disturbances, on one
occasion, he was obliged to fly the country.  On his return, he was
imprisoned, and made his peace with government, as it is said, by a
discovery of his associates.  Fortitude does not appear, at any time, to
have been the distinguishing virtue of poets.--There is, however, an
obvious similarity between the practical turn of Chaucer's mind and
restless impatience of his character, and the tone of his writings.  Yet
it would be too much to attribute the one to the other as cause and
effect: for Spenser, whose poetical temperament was an effeminate as
Chaucer's was stern and masculine, was equally engaged in public
affairs, and had mixed equally in the great world.  So much does native
disposition predominate over accidental circumstances, moulding them to
its previous bent and purposes! For while Chaucer's intercourse with the
busy world, and collision with the actual passions and conflicting
interests of others, seemed to brace the sinews of his understanding,
and gave to his writings the air of a man who describes persons and
things that he had known and been intimately concerned in; the same
opportunities, operating on a differently constituted frame, only served
to alienate Spenser's mind the more from the "close-pent up" scenes of
ordinary life, and to make him "rive their concealing continents," to
give himself up to the unrestrained indulgence of "flowery tenderness."

It is not possible for any two writers to be more opposite in this
respect.  Spenser delighted in luxurious enjoyment; Chaucer, in severe
activity of mind.  As Spenser was the most romantic and visionary,
Chaucer was the most practical of all the great poets, the most a man of
business and the world.  His poetry reads like history.  Every thing has a
downright reality; at least in the relator's mind.  A simile, or a
sentiment, is as if it were given in upon evidence.  Thus he describes
Cressid's first avowal of her love.

      "And as the new abashed nightingale,
      That stinteth first when she beginneth sing,
      When that she heareth any herde's tale,
      Or in the hedges any wight stirring,
      And after, sicker, doth her voice outring;
      Right so Cresseide, when that her dread stent,
      Open'd her heart, and told him her intent."

This is so true and natural, and beautifully simple, that the two things
seem identified with each other.  Again, it is said in the Knight's
Tale--

      "Thus passeth yere by yere, and day by day,
      Till it felle ones in a morwe of May,
      That Emelie that fayrer was to sene
      Than is the lilie upon his stalke grene;
      And fresher than the May with floures newe,
      For with the rose-colour strof hire hewe:
      I n'ot which was the finer of hem two."

This scrupulousness about the literal preference, as if some question of
matter of fact was at issue, is remarkable.  I might mention that other,
where he compares the meeting between Palamon and Arcite to a hunter
waiting for a lion in a gap;--

      "That stondeth at a gap with a spere,
      Whan hunted is the lion or the bere,
      And hereth him come rushing in the greves,
      And breking both the boughes and the leves:"--

or that still finer one of Constance, when she is condemned to death:--

      "Have ye not seen somtime a pale face
      (Among a prees) of him that hath been lad
      Toward his deth, wheras he geteth no grace,
      And swiche a colour in his face hath had,
      Men mighten know him that was so bestad,
      Amonges all the faces in that route;
      So stant Custance, and loketh hire aboute."

The beauty, the pathos here does not seem to be of the poet's seeking,
but a part of the necessary texture of the fable.  He speaks of what he
wishes to describe with the accuracy, the discrimination of one who
relates what has happened to himself, or has had the best information
from those who have been eye-witnesses of it.  The strokes of his pencil
always tell.  He dwells only on the essential, on that which would be
interesting to the persons really concerned: yet as he never omits any
material circumstance, he is prolix from the number of points on which
he touches, without being diffuse on any one; and is sometimes tedious
from the fidelity with which he adheres to his subject, as other writers
are from the frequency of their digressions from it.  The chain of his
story is composed of a number of fine links, closely connected together,
and rivetted by a single blow.  There is an instance of the minuteness
which he introduces into his most serious descriptions in his account of
Palamon when left alone in his cell:

      "Swiche sorrow he maketh that the grete tour
      Resouned of his yelling and clamour:
      The pure fetters on his shinnes grete
      Were of his bitter salte teres wete."

The mention of this last circumstance looks like a part of the
instructions he had to follow, which he had no discretionary power to
leave out or introduce at pleasure.  He is contented to find grace and
beauty in truth.  He exhibits for the most part the naked object, with
little drapery thrown over it.  His metaphors, which are few, are not for
ornament, but use, and as like as possible to the things themselves.  He
does not affect to shew his power over the reader's mind, but the power
which his subject has over his own.  The readers of Chaucer's poetry feel
more nearly what the persons he describes must have felt, than perhaps
those of any other poet.  His sentiments are not voluntary effusions of
the poet's fancy, but founded on the natural impulses and habitual
prejudices of the characters he has to represent.  There is an inveteracy
of purpose, a sincerity of feeling, which never relaxes or grows vapid,
in whatever they do or say.  There is no artificial, pompous display, but
a strict parsimony of the poet's materials, like the rude simplicity of
the age in which he lived.  His poetry resembles the root just springing
from the ground, rather than the full-blown flower.  His muse is no
"babbling gossip of the air," fluent and redundant; but, like a
stammerer, or a dumb person, that has just found the use of speech,
crowds many things together with eager haste, with anxious pauses, and
fond repetitions to prevent mistake.  His words point as an index to the
objects, like the eye or finger.  There were none of the common-places of
poetic diction in our author's time, no reflected lights of fancy, no
borrowed roseate tints; he was obliged to inspect things for himself, to
look narrowly, and almost to handle the object, as in the obscurity of
morning we partly see and partly grope our way; so that his descriptions
have a sort of tangible character belonging to them, and produce the
effect of sculpture on the mind.  Chaucer had an equal eye for truth of
nature and discrimination of character; and his interest in what he saw
gave new distinctness and force to his power of observation.  The
picturesque and the dramatic are in him closely blended together, and
hardly distinguishable; for he principally describes external
appearances as indicating character, as symbols of internal sentiment.
There is a meaning in what he sees; and it is this which catches his eye
by sympathy.  Thus the costume and dress of the Canterbury Pilgrims--of
the Knight--the Squire--the Oxford Scholar--the Gap-toothed Wife
of Bath, and the rest, speak for themselves.  To take one or two of these
at random:

      "There was also a nonne, a Prioresse,
      That of hire smiling was ful simple and coy;
      Hire gretest othe n'as but by seint Eloy:
      And she was cleped Madame Eglentine.
      Ful wel she sange the service divine
      Entuned in hire nose ful swetely;
      And Frenche she spake ful fayre and fetisly,
      After the scole of Stratford atte Bowe,
      For Frenche of Paris was to hire unknowe.
      At mete was she wel ytaughte withalle;
      She lette no morsel from hire lippes falle,
      Ne wette hire fingres in hire sauce depe.

      *   *   *   *   *   *

      And sikerly she was of great disport,
      And ful plesant, and amiable of port,
      And peined hire to contrefeten chere
      Of court, and ben estatelich of manere,
      And to ben holden digne of reverence.
        But for to speken of hire conscience,
      She was so charitable and so pitous,
      She wolde wepe if that she saw a mous
      Caughte in a trappe, if it were ded or bledde.
      Of smale houndes hadde she, that she fedde
      With rosted flesh, and milk, and wastel brede.
      But sore wept she if on of hem were dede,
      Or if men smote it with a yerde smert:
      And all was conscience and tendre herte.
        Ful semely hire wimple ypinched was;
      Hire nose tretis; hire eyen grey as glas;
      Hire mouth ful smale; and therto soft and red;
      But sickerly she hadde a fayre forehed.
      It was almost a spanne brode, I trowe."

      "A Monk there was, a fayre for the maistrie,
      An out-rider, that loved venerie:
      A manly man, to ben an abbot able.
      Ful many a deinte hors hadde he in stable:
      And whan he rode, men mighte his bridel here,
      Gingeling in a whistling wind as clere,
      And eke as loude, as doth the chapell belle,
      Ther as this lord was keper of the celle.
        The reule of Seint Maure and of Seint Beneit,
      Because that it was olde and somdele streit,
      This ilke monk lette olde thinges pace,
      And held after the newe world the trace. [*]
      He yave not of the text a pulled hen,
      That saith, that hunters ben not holy men;--
      Therfore he was a prickasoure a right:
      Greihoundes he hadde as swift as foul of flight:
      Of pricking and of hunting for the hare
      Was all his lust, for no cost wolde he spare.
        I saw his sleves purfiled at the hond
      With gris, and that the finest of the lond.
      And for to fasten his hood under his chinne,
      He had of gold ywrought a curious pinne:
      A love-knotte in the greter end ther was.
      His hed was balled, and shone as any glas,
      And eke his face, as it hadde ben anoint.
      He was a lord ful fat and in good point.
      His eyen stepe, and rolling in his hed,
      That stemed as a forneis of a led.
      His botes souple, his hors in gret estat,
      Now certainly he was a fayre prelat.
      He was not pale as a forpined gost.
      A fat swan loved he best of any rost.
      His palfrey was as broune as is a bery."

___
[*] PG transcriber's note:
"space" instead of "trace" in some editions.
___

The Serjeant at Law is the same identical individual as Lawyer
Dowling in Tom Jones, who wished to divide himself into a hundred
pieces, to be in a hundred places at once.

      "No wher so besy a man as he ther n'as,
      And yet he semed besier than he was."

The Frankelein, in "whose hous it snewed of mete and drinke"; the
Shipman, "who rode upon a rouncie, as he couthe"; the Doctour of
Phisike, "whose studie was but litel of the Bible"; the Wif of Bath, in

      "All whose parish ther was non,
      That to the offring before hire shulde gon,
      And if ther did, certain so wroth was she,
      That she was out of alle charitee;"

--the poure Persone of a toun, "whose parish was wide, and houses fer
asonder"; the Miller, and the Reve, "a slendre colerike man," are all of
the same stamp.  They are every one samples of a kind; abstract
definitions of a species.  Chaucer, it has been said, numbered the
classes of men, as Linnaeus numbered the plants.  Most of them remain to
this day: others that are obsolete, and may well be dispensed with,
still live in his descriptions of them.  Such is the Sompnoure:

      "A Sompnoure was ther with us in that place,
      That hadde a fire-red cherubinnes face,
      For sausefleme he was, with eyen narwe,
      As hote he was, and likerous as a sparwe,
      With scalled browes blake, and pilled berd:
      Of his visage children were sore aferd.
      Ther n'as quicksilver, litarge, ne brimston,
      Boras, ceruse, ne oile of tartre non,
      Ne oinement that wolde clense or bite,
      That him might helpen of his whelkes white,
      Ne of the knobbes sitting on his chekes.
      Wel loved he garlike, onions, and lekes,
      And for to drinke strong win as rede as blood.
      I doubt it: they are finishers, not inventors.
      They _preserve_ by means of this beautiful
      completion and adornment.
      
      
      128
        It is exceedingly doubtful whether
      we should draw any conclusion in
      regard to nationality and relationship with
      other nations from languages. A victorious
      language is nothing but a frequent
      (and not always regular) indication of
      a successful campaign. Where could there
      have been autochthonous peoples!

It shows a very hazy conception of things to talk about Greeks who
never lived in Greece. That which is really Greek is much less the
result of natural aptitude than of adapted institutions, and also
of an acquired language.

129
To live on mountains, to travel a great deal, and to move quickly from
one place to another . in these ways we can now begin to compare
ourselves with the Greek gods. We know the past, too, and we almost
know the future.

What would a Greek say, if only he could see us!

      130
      The gods make men still more evil; this is
      the nature of man. If we do not like a man,
      we wish that he may become worse
      than he is, and then we are glad. This
      forms part of the obscure philosophy
      of hate--a philosophy which has never
      yet been written, because it is everywhere the
      _pudendum_ that every one feels.
      
      
      131
      The pan-Hellenic Homer finds his delight
      in the frivolity of the gods; but it is
      astounding how he can also give them dignity
      again. This amazing ability to raise one's
      self again, however, is Greek.
      
      
      132
      What, then, is the origin of the envy of
      the gods? people did not believe in
      a calm, quiet happiness, but only
      in an exuberant one. This must have caused
        some displeasure to the Greeks; for
      their soul was only too easily wounded:
      it embittered them to see a happy
      man. That is Greek. If a man of distinguished
      talent appeared, the flock of envious
      people must have become astonishingly
      large. If any one met with a misfortune, they
      would say of him: "Ah! no wonder! he
      was too frivolous and too well off."
      And every one of them would have behaved
      exuberantly if he had possessed the
      requisite talent, and would willingly have
      played the role of the god who sent the
      unhappiness to men.
      
      
      133
      The Greek gods did not demand any complete
      changes of character, and were, generally
      speaking, by no means burdensome or
      importunate . it was thus possible to
      take them seriously and to believe in
      them. At the time of Homer, indeed,
      the nature of the Greek was formed
      · flippancy of images and imagination
      was necessary to lighten the weight of its passionate disposition
and to set it free.

134
Every religion has for its highest images an analogon in the spiritual
condition of those who profess it.

The God of Mohammed . the solitariness of the desert, the
distant roar of the lion, the vision of a formidable warrior. The God of
the Christians . everything that men and women think of when they hear
the word "love". The God of the Greeks: a beautiful apparition
in a dream.

135
A great deal of intelligence must have gone to the making up of a Greek
polytheism . the expenditure of intelligence is much less lavish when
people have only _one_ God.

136
Greek morality is not based on religion, but on the _polis_.

There were only priests of the individual gods; not representatives
of the whole religion . _i.e._, no guild of priests. Likewise no Holy
Writ.

137
The "lighthearted" gods · this is the highest adornment which has
ever been bestowed upon the world--with the feeling, How difficult
it is to live!

      138
      If the Greeks let their "reason" speak,
      their life seems to them bitter and
      terrible. They are not deceived. But
      they play round life with lies:
      Simonides advises them to treat life as they
      would a play; earnestness was only too well known to them in the
form of pain.

      The misery of men is a pleasure to the
      gods when they hear the poets singing of
      it. Well did the Greeks know that
      only through art could even misery itself
      become a source of pleasure, _vide
      tragoediam_.
      

      
      139
      It is quite untrue to say that the
      Greeks only took _this_ life into
      their consideration--they suffered
      also from thoughts of death and Hell.
      But no "repentance" or contrition.

      
      
      140
      The incarnate appearance of gods, as
      in Sappho's invocation to Aphrodite,
      must not be taken as poetic licence · they
      are frequently hallucinations.

      We conceive of a great many things,
      including the will to die, too
      superficially as rhetorical.
      
      
      141
      The "martyr" is Hellenic: Prometheus, Hercules.

      The hero-myth became pan-Hellenic:
      a poet must have had a hand in
      that!
      
      
      142
      How _realistic_ the Greeks were even in the domain of pure
inventions!

      They poetised reality, not yearning to
      lift themselves out of it. The raising
      of the present into the colossal
      and eternal, _e.g._, by Pindar.
      
      
      143

      What condition do the Greeks premise
      as the model of their life in Hades?
      Anæmic, dreamlike, weak . it is the
      continuous accentuation of old age, when
      the memory gradually becomes weaker
      and weaker, and the body still more
      so.

      The senility of senility . this would
      be our state of life in the eyes of the
      Hellenes.
      
      
      144
      The naive character of the Greeks observed by the Egyptians.
145
The truly scientific people, the literary people, were the Egyptians
and not the Greeks.

That which has the appearance of science among the Greeks, originated
among the Egyptians and later on returned to them to mingle again with
the old current. Alexandrian culture is an amalgamation of Hellenic and
Egyptian . and when our world again founds its culture upon the Alexandrian
culture, then....[12]

146
The Egyptians are far more of a literary people than the Greeks. I
maintain this against Wolf.

      The first grain in Eleusis, the first vine in Thebes, the first
olive-tree and fig-tree.

The Egyptians had lost a great part of their mythology.

147
The unmathematical undulation of the column in Paestum is analogous
to the modification of the _tempo_: animation in place of a mechanical
movement.

        
      148
      The desire to find something certain
      and fixed in æsthetic led to the
      worship of Aristotle: I think, however,
      that we may gradually come to see from his works
      that he understood nothing about art, and that
      it is merely the intellectual conversations
      of the Athenians, echoing in his pages,
      which we admire.
      
      
      149
      In Socrates we have as it were lying open
      before us a specimen of the consciousness
      out of which, later on, the instincts
      of the theoretic man originated: that one would rather die than
grow old and weak in mind.

150
At the twilight of antiquity there were still wholly unchristian
figures, which were more beautiful, harmonious, and pure than those
of any Christians: _e.g._, Proclus.

His mysticism and syncretism were things that precisely Christianity
cannot reproach him with. In any case, it would be my desire to live
together with such people. In comparison with them Christianity looks like
some crude brutalisation, organised for the benefit of the mob and the
criminal classes.

        
      Proclus, who solemnly invokes the rising
      moon.
      
      
      151
      With the advent of Christianity a religion
      attained the mastery which corresponded
      to a pre-Greek condition of mankind: belief in witchcraft in
connection with all and everything, bloody sacrifices, superstitious
fear of demoniacal punishments, despair in one's self, ecstatic
brooding and hallucination, man's self become the arena of good and
evil spirits and their struggles.

152
All branches of history have experimented with antiquity · critical
consideration alone remains.

By this term I do not mean conjectural and literary-historical
criticism.

153
Antiquity has been treated by all kinds of historians and their
methods.
We have now had enough experience, however, to turn the history of
antiquity to account without being shipwrecked on antiquity
itself.

154
We can now look back over a fairly long period of human existence
· what will the humanity be like which is able to look back at us
from an equally long distance?

      which finds us lying intoxicated among the
      débris of old culture! which finds its
      only consolation in "being good" and in
      holding out the "helping hand," and turns
      away from all other consolations!--Does
      beauty, too, grow out of the ancient
      culture? I think that our ugliness arises
      from our metaphysical remnants . our confused
      morals, the worthlessness of our
      marriages, and so on, are the cause. The
      beautiful man, the healthy, moderate, and
      enterprising man, moulds the objects around him into beautiful
shapes after his own image.

155
Up to the present time all history has been written from the
standpoint of success, and, indeed, with the assumption of a certain
reason in this success.

This remark applies also to Greek history: so far we do not possess
any.

      It is the same all round, however: where
      are the historians who can survey things
      and events without being humbugged by
      stupid theories? I know of only one, Burckhardt.

Everywhere the widest possible optimism prevails in science. The
question: "What would have been the consequence if so and so had not
happened?" is almost unanimously thrust aside, and yet it is the
cardinal question. Thus everything becomes ironical. Let us only
consider our own lives. If we examine history in accordance with a
preconceived plan, let this plan be sought in the purposes of a great
man, or perhaps in those of a sex, or of a party.
Everything else is a chaos.--Even in natural science we find this deification
of the necessary.

Germany has become the breeding-place of this historical optimism; Hegel
is perhaps to blame for this. Nothing, however, is more responsible
for the fatal influence of German culture.

      Everything that has been kept down by success gradually rears itself
up: history as the scorn of the conqueror; a servile sentiment and
a kneeling down before the actual fact--"a sense for the State,"
they now call it, as if _that_ had still to be propagated!

He who does not understand how brutal and unintelligent history is
will never understand the stimulus to make it intelligent.

      Just think how rare it is to find a man
      with as great an intelligent knowledge
      of his own life as Goethe had . what amount
      of rationality can we expect to find
      arising out of these other veiled and
      blind existences as they work chaotically
      with and in opposition to each other?

      
      And it is especially naive when Hellwald,
      the author of a history of culture,
      warns us away from all "ideals,"
      simply because history has killed them
      off one after the other.
      

      
      156
      To bring to light without reserve
      the stupidity and the want of reason in
      human things · that is the aim of _our_
      brethren and colleagues.
      People will then have to distinguish what is essential in them,
what is incorrigible, and what is still susceptible of further
improvement.

      But "Providence" must be kept out of the
      question, for it is a conception
      that enables people to take things too
      easily. I wish to breathe the breath
      of _this_ purpose into science. Let
      us advance our knowledge of mankind! The
      good and rational in man is accidental or apparent, or the contrary
of something very irrational.

      There will come a time when _training_ will
      be the only thought.
      
      
      157
      Surrender to necessity is exactly
      what I do not teach--for one must first know this necessity to be
necessary.

      There may perhaps be many necessities;
      but in general this inclination is simply a bed
      of idleness.
      
      
      158
      To know history now means · to recognise how all those who believed
in a Providence took things too easily.

      There is no such thing. If human affairs
      are seen to go forward in a loose and
      disordered way, do not think that a god
      has any purpose in view by letting them do
      so or that he is neglecting them.
      We can now see in a general way that the
      history of Christianity on earth has been one of the most dreadful
chapters in history, and that a stop _must_ be put to it.

      True, the influence of antiquity has been
      observed in Christianity even in our own
      time, and, as it diminishes, so will
      our knowledge of antiquity diminish also
      to an even greater extent. Now is the best
      time to recognise it: we are no longer
      prejudiced in favour of Christianity, but we still understand it,
and also the antiquity that forms part of it, so far as this antiquity
stands in line with Christianity.

159
Philosophic heads must occupy themselves one day with the collective
account of antiquity and make up its balance-sheet.

      If we have this, antiquity will be overcome.
      All the shortcomings which now vex us have
      their roots in antiquity, so that we
      cannot continue to treat this account
      with the mildness which has been
      customary up to the present.
      The atrocious crime of mankind which rendered Christianity possible,
as it actually became possible, is the _guilt_ of antiquity.

      With Christianity antiquity will also
      be cleared away.--At the present time it
      is not so very far behind us, and
      it is certainly not possible to do
      justice to it. It has been availed of in
      the most dreadful fashion for purposes
      of repression, and has acted as a support for religious oppression
by disguising itself as "culture."

It was common to hear the saying, "Antiquity has been conquered by
Christianity."
This was a historical fact, and it was thus thought that no harm could come
of any dealings with antiquity. Yes, it is so plausible to say that
we find Christian ethics "deeper" than Socrates! Plato was easier to
compete with!

We are at the present time, so to speak, merely chewing the cud of
the very battle which was fought in the first centuries of the Christian
era--with the exception of the fact that now, instead of the clearly
perceptible antiquity which then existed, we have merely its pale
ghost; and, indeed, even Christianity itself has become rather ghostlike.
It is a battle fought _after_ the decisive battle, a post-vibration.
In the end, all the forces of which antiquity consisted have reappeared
in Christianity in the crudest possible form: it is nothing new, only
quantitatively extraordinary.

160
What severs us for ever from the culture of antiquity is the fact that
its foundations have become too shaky for us. A criticism of the Greeks
is at the same time a criticism of Christianity; for the bases of the
spirit of belief, the religious cult, and witchcraft, are the same in
both--There are many rudimentary stages still remaining, but they are
by this time almost ready to collapse.

This would be a task . to characterise Greek antiquity as irretrievably
lost, and with it Christianity also and the foundations upon which,
up to the present time, our society and politics have been based.

161
Christianity has conquered antiquity--yes; that is easily said. In the
first place, it is itself a piece of antiquity, in the second place, it
has preserved antiquity, in the third place, it has never been in combat
with the pure ages of antiquity. Or rather: in order that Christianity
itself might remain, it had to let itself be overcome by the spirit of
antiquity--for example, the idea of empire, the community, and so
forth.
We are suffering from the uncommon want of clearness and uncleanliness
of human things; from the ingenious mendacity which Christianity has
brought among men.

162
It is almost laughable to see how nearly all the sciences and arts of
modern times grow from the scattered seeds which have been wafted
towards us from antiquity, and how Christianity seems to us here to be
merely the evil chill of a long night, a night during which one is almost
inclined to believe that all is over with reason and honesty among
men. The battle waged against the natural man has given rise to the unnatural
man.

163
With the dissolution of Christianity a great part of antiquity has
become incomprehensible to us, for instance, the entire religious
basis of life. On this account an imitation of antiquity is a false tendency
.
the betrayers or the betrayed are the philologists who still think of
such a thing. We live in a period when many different conceptions of life
are to be found: hence the present age is instructive to an unusual
degree; and hence also the reason why it is so ill, since it
suffers from the evils of all its tendencies at once. The man of the
future .
the European man.

      164
      The German Reformation widened the gap
      between us and antiquity: was it necessary
      for it to do so? It once again introduced
      the old contrast of "Paganism" and
      "Christianity"; and it was at the same time
      a protest against the decorative culture
      of the Renaissance--it was a victory gained
      over the same culture as had formerly
      been conquered by early Christianity.
      
      In regard to "worldly things," Christianity preserved the grosser
views of the ancients.

All the nobler elements in marriage, slavery, and the State are
unchristian. It _required_ the distorting characteristics of
worldliness to prove itself.

165
The connection between humanism and religious rationalism was emphasised
as a Saxonian trait by Kochly: the type of this philologist is
Gottfried Hermann.[13]

166
I understand religions as narcotics: but when they are given to such
nations as the Germans, I think they are simply rank poison.
167
All religions are, in the end, based upon certain physical assumptions,
which are already in existence and adapt the religions to their
needs .
for example, in Christianity, the contrast between body and soul,
the unlimited importance of the earth as the "world," the marvellous
occurrences in nature. If once the opposite views gain the mastery--for
instance, a strict law of nature, the helplessness and superfluousness
of all gods, the strict conception of the soul as a bodily process--all
is over. But all Greek culture is based upon such views.

168
When we look from the character and culture of the Catholic Middle
Ages back to the Greeks, we see them resplendent indeed in the rays
of higher humanity; for, if we have anything to reproach these
Greeks with, we must reproach the Middle Ages with it also to a
much greater extent. The worship of the ancients at the time of the
Renaissance was therefore quite honest and proper. We have carried
matters further in one particular point, precisely in connection
with that dawning ray of light. We have outstripped the Greeks in
the clarifying of the world by our studies of nature and men. Our
knowledge is much greater, and our judgments are more moderate and
just.
In addition to this, a more gentle spirit has become widespread,
thanks to the period of illumination which has weakened mankind--but
this weakness, when turned into morality, leads to good results and
honours us. Man has now a great deal of freedom: it is his own fault
if he does not make more use of it than he does; the fanaticism of
opinions has become much milder. Finally, that we would much rather
live in the present age than in any other is due to science, and
certainly no other race in the history of mankind has had such a
wide choice of noble enjoyments as ours--even if our race has not
the palate and stomach to experience a great deal of joy. But one
can live comfortably amid all this "freedom" only when one merely
understands it and does not wish to participate in it--that is the
modern crux. The participants appear to be less attractive than
ever · how stupid they must be!
Thus the danger arises that knowledge may avenge itself on us, just
as ignorance avenged itself on us during the Middle Ages. It is all
over with those religions which place their trust in gods, Providences,
rational orders of the universe, miracles, and sacraments, as is
also the case with certain types of holy lives, such as ascetics;
for we only too easily conclude that such people are the effects
of sickness and an aberrant brain. There is no doubt that the
contrast between a pure, incorporeal soul and a body has been almost
set aside. Who now believes in the immortality of the soul! Everything
connected with blessedness or damnation, which was based upon certain
erroneous physiological assumptions, falls to the ground as soon
as these assumptions are recognised to be errors. Our scientific
assumptions admit just as much of an interpretation and utilisation
in favour of a besotting philistinism--yea, in favour of bestiality--as
also in favour of "blessedness" and soul-inspiration. As compared
with all previous ages, we are now standing on a new foundation,
so that something may still be expected from the human race.
As regards culture, we have hitherto been acquainted with only one
complete form of it, _i.e._, the city-culture of the Greeks, based
as it was on their mythical and social foundations; and one incomplete
form, the Roman, which acted as an adornment of life, derived from
the Greek.
Now all these bases, the mythical and the politico-social, have
changed; our alleged culture has no stability, because it has been
erected upon insecure conditions and opinions which are even now
almost ready to collapse.--When we thoroughly grasp Greek culture,
then, we see that it is all over with it. The philologist is thus
a great sceptic in the present conditions of our culture and training
· that is his mission.
Happy is he if, like Wagner and Schopenhauer, he has a dim presentiment
of those auspicious powers amid which a new culture is stirring.
169
Those who say: "But antiquity nevertheless remains as a subject of
consideration for pure science, even though all its educational
purposes may be disowned," must be answered by the words, What is
pure science here! Actions and characteristics must be judged; and
those who judge them must stand above them: so you must first devote
your attention to overcoming antiquity. If you do not do that, your
science is not pure, but impure and limited . as may now be
perceived.

170
To overcome Greek antiquity through our own deeds: this would be
the right task. But before we can do this we must first _know_
it!--There is a thoroughness which is merely an excuse for inaction.
Let it be recollected how much Goethe knew of antiquity: certainly
not so much as a philologist, and yet sufficient to contend with
it in such a way as to bring about fruitful results. One _should_
not even know more about a thing than one could create. Moreover,
the only time when we can actually _recognise_ something is when
we endeavour to _make_ it. Let people but attempt to live after the
manner of antiquity, and they will at once come hundreds of miles
nearer to antiquity than they can do with all their erudition.The treatment he received from Burleigh is well known.
Spenser, as well as Chaucer, was engaged in active life; but the genius
of his poetry was not active: it is inspired by the love of ease, and
relaxation from all the cares and business of life.  Of all the poets, he
is the most poetical.  Though much later than Chaucer, his obligations to
preceding writers were less.  He has in some measure borrowed the plan of
his poem (as a number of distinct narratives) from Ariosto; but he has
engrafted upon it an exuberance of fancy, and an endless voluptuousness
of sentiment, which are not to be found in the Italian writer.  Farther,
Spenser is even more of an inventor in the subject-matter.  There is an
originality, richness, and variety in his allegorical personages and
fictions, which almost vies with the splendor of the ancient mythology.
If Ariosto transports us into the regions of romance, Spenser's poetry
is all fairy-land.  In Ariosto, we walk upon the ground, in a company,
gay, fantastic, and adventurous enough.  In Spenser, we wander in another
world, among ideal beings.  The poet takes and lays us in the lap of a
lovelier nature, by the sound of softer streams, among greener hills and
fairer valleys.  He paints nature, not as we find it, but as we expected
to find it; and fulfils the delightful promise of our youth.  He waves
his wand of enchantment--and at once embodies airy beings, and throws
a delicious veil over all actual objects.  The two worlds of reality and
of fiction are poised on the wings of his imagination.  His ideas,
indeed, seem more distinct than his perceptions.  He is the painter of
abstractions, and describes them with dazzling minuteness.  In the Mask
of Cupid he makes the God of Love "clap on high his coloured winges
_twain_": and it is said of Gluttony, in the Procession of the Passions,

      "In green vine leaves he was right fitly clad."

At times he becomes picturesque from his intense love of beauty; as
where he compares Prince Arthur's crest to the appearance of the almond
tree:

      "Upon the top of all his lofty crest,
        A bunch of hairs discolour'd diversely
      With sprinkled pearl and gold full richly drest
        Did shake and seem'd to daunce for jollity;
      Like to an almond tree ymounted high
        On top of green Selenis all alone,
      With blossoms brave bedecked daintily;
        Her tender locks do tremble every one
      At every little breath that under heav'n is blown."

The love of beauty, however, and not of truth, is the moving principle
of his mind; and he is guided in his fantastic delineations by no rule
but the impulse of an inexhaustible imagination.  He luxuriates equally
in scenes of Eastern magnificence; or the still solitude of a hermit's
cell--in the extremes of sensuality or refinement.

In reading the Faery Queen, you see a little withered old man by a
wood-side opening a wicket, a giant, and a dwarf lagging far behind, a
damsel in a boat upon an enchanted lake, wood-nymphs, and satyrs, and
all of a sudden you are transported into a lofty palace, with tapers
burning, amidst knights and ladies, with dance and revelry, and song,
"and mask, and antique pageantry." What can be more solitary, more shut
up in itself, than his description of the house of Sleep, to which
Archimago sends for a dream:

      "And more to lull him in his slumber soft
        A trickling stream from high rock tumbling down,
      And ever-drizzling rain upon the loft,
        Mix'd with a murmuring wind, much like the sound
      Of swarming Bees, did cast him in a swound.
        No other noise, nor people's troublous cries.
      That still are wont t' annoy the walled town
        Might there be heard; but careless Quiet lies
      Wrapt in eternal silence, far from enemies."

It is as if "the honey-heavy dew of slumber" had settled on his pen in
writing these lines.  How different in the subject (and yet how like in
beauty) is the following description of the Bower of Bliss:

      "Eftsoones they heard a most melodious sound
        Of all that mote delight a dainty ear;
      Such as at once might not on living ground,
        Save in this Paradise, be heard elsewhere:
      Right hard it was for wight which did it hear,
        To tell what manner musicke that mote be;
      For all that pleasing is to living eare
        Was there consorted in one harmonee:
      Birds, voices, instruments, windes, waters, all agree.

      The joyous birdes shrouded in chearefull shade
        Their notes unto the voice attempred sweet:
      The angelical soft trembling voices made
        To th' instruments divine respondence meet.
      The silver sounding instruments did meet
        With the base murmur of the water's fall;
      The water's fall with difference discreet,
        Now soft, now loud, unto the wind did call;
      The gentle warbling wind low answered to all."

The remainder of the passage has all that voluptuous pathos, and languid
brilliancy of fancy, in which this writer excelled:

      "The whiles some one did chaunt this lovely lay;
        Ah! see, whoso fayre thing dost thou fain to see,
      In springing flower the image of thy day!
        Ah! see the virgin rose, how sweetly she
      Doth first peep forth with bashful modesty,
        That fairer seems the less ye see her may!
      Lo! see soon after, how more bold and free
        Her bared bosom she doth broad display;
      Lo! see soon after, how she fades and falls away!

      So passeth in the passing of a day
        Of mortal life the leaf, the bud, the flower;
      Ne more doth flourish after first decay,
        That erst was sought to deck both bed and bower
      Of many a lady and many a paramour!
        Gather therefore the rose whilst yet is prime,
      For soon comes age that will her pride deflower;
        Gather the rose of love whilst yet is time,
      Whilst loving thou mayst loved be with equal crime. [2]

      He ceased; and then gan all the quire of birds
        Their divers notes to attune unto his lay,
      As in approvance of his pleasing wordes.
        The constant pair heard all that he did say,
      Yet swerved not, but kept their forward way
        Through many covert groves and thickets close,
      In which they creeping did at last display [3]
        That wanton lady with her lover loose,
      Whose sleepy head she in her lap did soft dispose.

      Upon a bed of roses she was laid
        As faint through heat, or dight to pleasant sin;
      And was arrayed or rather disarrayed,
        All in a veil of silk and silver thin,
      That hid no whit her alabaster skin,
        But rather shewed more white, if more might be:
      More subtle web Arachne cannot spin;
        Nor the fine nets, which oft we woven see
      Of scorched dew, do not in the air more lightly flee.

      Her snowy breast was bare to greedy spoil
        Of hungry eyes which n' ote therewith be fill'd,
      And yet through languor of her late sweet toil
        Few drops more clear than nectar forth distill'd,
      That like pure Orient perles adown it trill'd;
        And her fair eyes sweet smiling in delight
      Moisten'd their fiery beams, with which she thrill'd
        Frail hearts, yet quenched not; like starry light,
      Which sparkling on the silent waves does seem more bright."

___
[2] Taken from Tasso.
[3] This word is an instance of those unwarrantable freedoms which
Spenser sometimes took with language.
___

The finest things in Spenser are, the character of Una, in the first
book; the House of Pride; the Cave of Mammon, and the Cave of Despair;
the account of Memory, of whom it is said, among other things,

      "The wars he well remember'd of King Nine,
      Of old Assaracus and Inachus divine";

the description of Belphoebe; the story of Florimel and the Witch's son;
the Gardens of Adonis, and the Bower of Bliss; the Mask of Cupid; and
Colin Clout's vision, in the last book.  But some people will say that
all this may be very fine, but that they cannot understand it on account
of the allegory.  They are afraid of the allegory, as if they thought it
would bite them: they look at it as a child looks at a painted dragon,
and think it will strangle them in its shining folds.  This is very idle.
If they do not meddle with the allegory, the allegory will not meddle
with them.  Without minding it at all, the whole is as plain as a
pike-staff.  It might as well be pretended that we cannot see Poussin's
pictures for the allegory, as that the allegory prevents us from
understanding Spenser.  For instance, when Britomart, seated amidst the
young warriors, lets fall her hair and discovers her sex, is it
necessary to know the part she plays in the allegory, to understand the
beauty of the following stanza?

      "And eke that stranger knight amongst the rest
        Was for like need enforc'd to disarray.
      Tho when as vailed was her lofty crest,
        Her golden locks that were in trammels gay
      Upbounden, did themselves adown display,
        And raught unto her heels like sunny beams
      That in a cloud their light did long time stay;
        Their vapour faded, shew their golden gleams,
      And through the persant air shoot forth their azure streams."

Or is there any mystery in what is said of Belphoebe, that her hair was
sprinkled with flowers and blossoms which had been entangled in it as
she fled through the woods? Or is it necessary to have a more distinct
idea of Proteus, than that which is given of him in his boat, with the
frighted Florimel at his feet, while

      "------the cold icicles from his rough beard
      Dropped adown upon her snowy breast!"

Or is it not a sufficient account of one of the sea-gods that pass by
them, to say--

      "That was Arion crowned:--
      So went he playing on the watery plain."

Or to take the Procession of the Passions that draw the coach of Pride,
in which the figures of Idleness, of Gluttony, of Lechery, of Avarice,
of Envy, and of Wrath speak, one should think, plain enough for
themselves; such as this of Gluttony:

      "And by his side rode loathsome Gluttony,
        Deformed creature, on a filthy swine;
      His belly was up blown with luxury;
        And eke with fatness swollen were his eyne;
      And like a crane his neck was long and fine,
        With which he swallowed up excessive feast,
    For want whereof poor people oft did pine.

      In green vine leaves he was right fitly clad;
        For other clothes he could not wear for heat:
      And on his head an ivy garland had,
        From under which fast trickled down the sweat:
      Still as he rode, he somewhat still did eat.
        And in his hand did bear a bouzing can,
      Of which he supt so oft, that on his seat
        His drunken corse he scarce upholden can;
    In shape and size more like a monster than a man."

Or this of Lechery:

      "And next to him rode lustfull Lechery
        Upon a bearded goat, whose rugged hair
      And whaly eyes (the sign of jealousy)
        Was like the person's self whom he did bear:
      Who rough and black, and filthy did appear.
        Unseemly man to please fair lady's eye:
      Yet he of ladies oft was loved dear,
        When fairer faces were bid standen by:
    O! who does know the bent of woman's fantasy?

      In a green gown he clothed was full fair,
        Which underneath did hide his filthiness;
      And in his hand a burning heart he bare,
        Full of vain follies and new fangleness;
      For he was false and fraught with fickleness;
        And learned had to love with secret looks;
      And well could dance; and sing with ruefulness;
        And fortunes tell; and read in loving books;
    And thousand other ways to bait his fleshly hooks.

      Inconstant man that loved all he saw,
        And lusted after all that he did love;
      Ne would his looser life be tied to law;
        But joyed weak women's hearts to tempt and prove,
    If from their loyal loves he might them move."

This is pretty plain-spoken.  Mr. Southey says of Spenser:

                "------Yet not more sweet
      Than pure was he, and not more pure than wise;
      High priest of all the Muses' mysteries!"

On the contrary, no one was more apt to pry into mysteries which do not
strictly belong to the Muses.

Of the same kind with the Procession of the Passions, as little
obscure, and still more beautiful, is the Mask of Cupid, with his train
of votaries:

      "The first was Fancy, like a lovely boy
        Of rare aspect, and beauty without peer;

      His garment neither was of silk nor say,
        But painted plumes in goodly order dight,
      Like as the sun-burnt Indians do array
        Their tawny bodies in their proudest plight:
      As those same plumes so seem'd he vain and light,
        That by his gait might easily appear;
      For still he far'd as dancing in delight,
        And in his hand a windy fan did bear
    That in the idle air he mov'd still here and there.

      And him beside march'd amorous Desire,
        Who seem'd of riper years than the other swain,
      Yet was that other swain this elder's sire,
        And gave him being, common to them twain:
      His garment was disguised very vain,
        And his embroidered bonnet sat awry;
      Twixt both his hands few sparks he close did strain,
        Which still he blew, and kindled busily,
    That soon they life conceiv'd and forth in flames did fly.

      Next after him went Doubt, who was yclad
        In a discolour'd coat of strange disguise,
      That at his back a broad capuccio had,
        And sleeves dependant _Albanese-wise_;
      He lookt askew with his mistrustful eyes,
        And nicely trod, as thorns lay in his way,
      Or that the floor to shrink he did avise;
        And on a broken reed he still did stay
    His feeble steps, which shrunk when hard thereon he lay.

      With him went Daunger, cloth'd in ragged weed,
        Made of bear's skin, that him more dreadful made;
      Yet his own face was dreadfull, ne did need
        Strange horror to deform his grisly shade;
      A net in th' one hand, and a rusty blade
        In th' other was; this Mischiefe, that Mishap;
      With th' one his foes he threat'ned to invade,
        With th' other he his friends meant to enwrap;
    For whom he could not kill he practiz'd to entrap.

      Next him was Fear, all arm'd from top to toe,
        Yet thought himselfe not safe enough thereby,
      But fear'd each shadow moving to and fro;
        And his own arms when glittering he did spy
      Or clashing heard, he fast away did fly,
        As ashes pale of hue, and winged-heel'd;
      And evermore on Daunger fixt his eye,
        'Gainst whom he always bent a brazen shield,
    Which his right hand unarmed fearfully did wield.

      With him went Hope in rank, a handsome maid,
        Of chearfull look and lovely to behold;
      In silken samite she was light array'd,
        And her fair locks were woven up in gold;
      She always smil'd, and in her hand did hold
        An holy-water sprinkle dipt in dew,
      With which she sprinkled favours manifold
        On whom she list, and did great liking shew,
    Great liking unto many, but true love to few.

      Next after them, the winged God himself
        Came riding on a lion ravenous,
      Taught to obey the menage of that elfe
        That man and beast with power imperious
      Subdueth to his kingdom tyrannous:
        His blindfold eyes he bade awhile unbind,
      That his proud spoil of that same dolorous
        Fair dame he might behold in perfect kind;
    Which seen, he much rejoiced in his cruel mind.

      Of which full proud, himself uprearing high,
        He looked round about with stern disdain,
      And did survey his goodly company:
        And marshalling the evil-ordered train,
      With that the darts which his right hand did strain,
        Full dreadfully he shook, that all did quake,
      And clapt on high his colour'd winges twain,
        That all his many it afraid did make:
    Tho, blinding him again, his way he forth did take."

The description of Hope, in this series of historical portraits, is one
of the most beautiful in Spenser: and the triumph of Cupid at the
mischief he has made, is worthy of the malicious urchin deity.  In
reading these descriptions, one can hardly avoid being reminded of
Rubens's allegorical pictures; but the account of Satyrane taming the
lion's whelps and lugging the bear's cubs along in his arms while yet an
infant, whom his mother so naturally advises to "go seek some other
play-fellows," has even more of this high picturesque character.  Nobody
but Rubens could have painted the fancy of Spenser; and he could not
have given the sentiment, the airy dream that hovers over it! With all
this, Spenser neither makes us laugh nor weep.  The only jest in his poem
is an allegorical play upon words, where he describes Malbecco as
escaping in the herd of goats, "by the help of his fayre hornes on
hight." But he has been unjustly charged with a want of passion and of
strength.  He has both in an immense degree.  He has not indeed the pathos
of immediate action or suffering, which is more properly the dramatic;
but he has all the pathos of sentiment and romance--all that belongs
to distant objects of terror, and uncertain, imaginary distress.  His
strength, in like manner, is not strength of will or action, of bone and
muscle, nor is it coarse and palpable--but it assumes a character of
vastness and sublimity seen through the same visionary medium, and
blended with the appalling associations of preternatural agency.  We need
only turn, in proof of this, to the Cave of Despair, or the Cave of
Mammon, or to the account of the change of Malbecco into Jealousy.  The
following stanzas, in the description of the Cave of Mammon, the grisly
house of Plutus, are unrivalled for the portentous massiness of the
forms, the splendid chiaro-scuro, and shadowy horror.

      "That house's form within was rude and strong,
        Like an huge cave hewn out of rocky clift,
      From whose rough vault the ragged breaches hung,
        Embossed with massy gold of glorious gift,
      And with rich metal loaded every rift,
        That heavy ruin they did seem to threat:
      And over them Arachne high did lift
        Her cunning web, and spread her subtle net,
    Enwrapped in foul smoke, and clouds more black than jet.

      Both roof and floor, and walls were all of gold,
        But overgrown with dust and old decay, [4]
      And hid in darkness that none could behold
        The hue thereof: for view of cheerful day
      Did never in that house itself display,
        But a faint shadow of uncertain light;
      Such as a lamp whose life doth fade away;
        Or as the moon clothed with cloudy night
    Does shew to him that walks in fear and sad affright.

      *   *   *   *   *   *   *

      And over all sad Horror with grim hue
        Did always soar, beating his iron wings;
      And after him owls and night-ravens flew,
        The hateful messengers of heavy things,
      Of death and dolour telling sad tidings;
        Whiles sad Celleno, sitting on a clift,
      A song of bitter bale and sorrow sings,
        That heart of flint asunder could have rift;
    Which having ended, after him she flieth swift."

___
[4]    "That all with one consent praise new-born gauds,
   Tho' they are made and moulded of things past,
   And give to Dust, that is a little gilt,
   More laud than gold o'er-dusted."
                                       _Troilus and Cressida_.
___


The Cave of Despair is described with equal gloominess and power of
fancy; and the fine moral declamation of the owner of it, on the evils
of life, almost makes one in love with death.  In the story of Malbecco,
who is haunted by jealousy, and in vain strives to run away from his own
thoughts--

      "High over hill and over dale he flies"--

the truth of human passion and the preternatural ending are equally
striking.--It is not fair to compare Spenser with Shakspeare, in point
of interest.  A fairer comparison would be with Comus; and the result
would not be unfavourable to Spenser.  There is only one work of the same
allegorical kind, which has more interest than Spenser (with scarcely
less imagination): and that is the Pilgrim's Progress.  The three first
books of the Faery Queen are very superior to the three last.  One would
think that Pope, who used to ask if any one had ever read the Faery
Queen through, had only dipped into these last.  The only things in them
equal to the former, are the account of Talus, the Iron Man, and the
delightful episode of Pastorella.

The language of Spenser is full, and copious, to overflowing; it is
less pure and idiomatic than Chaucer's, and is enriched and adorned with
phrases borrowed from the different languages of Europe, both ancient
and modern.  He was, probably, seduced into a certain license of
expression by the difficulty of filling up the moulds of his complicated
rhymed stanza from the limited resources of his native language.  This
stanza, with alternate and repeatedly recurring rhymes, is borrowed from
the Italians.  It was peculiarly fitted to their language, which abounds
in similar vowel terminations, and is as little adapted to ours, from
the stubborn, unaccommodating resistance which the consonant endings of
the northern languages make to this sort of endless sing-song.--Not
that I would, on that account, part with the stanza of Spenser.  We are,
perhaps, indebted to this very necessity of finding out new forms of
expression, and to the occasional faults to which it led, for a poetical
language rich and varied and magnificent beyond all former, and almost
all later example.  His versification is, at once, the most smooth and
the most sounding in the language.  It is a labyrinth of sweet sounds,
"in many a winding bout of linked sweetness long drawn out"--that
would cloy by their very sweetness, but that the ear is constantly
relieved and enchanted by their continued variety of modulation--
dwelling on the pauses of the action, or flowing on in a fuller tide of
harmony with the movement of the sentiment.  It has not the bold dramatic
transitions of Shakspeare's blank verse, nor the high-raised tone of
Milton's; but it is the perfection of melting harmony, dissolving the
soul in pleasure, or holding it captive in the chains of suspense.
Spenser was the poet of our waking dreams; and he has invented not only
a language, but a music of his own for them.  The undulations are
infinite, like those of the waves of the sea: but the effect is still
the same, lulling the senses into a deep oblivion of the jarring noises
of the world, from which we have no wish to be ever recalled.


LECTURE III.
ON SHAKSPEARE AND MILTON.


In looking back to the great works of genius in former times, we are
sometimes disposed to wonder at the little progress which has since been
made in poetry, and in the arts of imitation in general.  But this is
perhaps a foolish wonder.  Nothing can be more contrary to the fact, than
the supposition that in what we understand by the _fine arts_, as
painting, and poetry, relative perfection is only the result of repeated
efforts in successive periods, and that what has been once well done,
constantly leads to something better.  What is mechanical, reducible to
rule, or capable of demonstration, is progressive, and admits of gradual
improvement: what is not mechanical, or definite, but depends on
feeling, taste, and genius, very soon becomes stationary, or retrograde,
and loses more than it gains by transfusion.  The contrary opinion is a
vulgar error, which has grown up, like many others, from transferring an
analogy of one kind to something quite distinct, without taking into the
account the difference in the nature of the things, or attending to the
difference of the results.  For most persons, finding what wonderful
advances have been made in biblical criticism, in chemistry, in
mechanics, in geometry, astronomy, &c. _i.e._ in things depending on
mere inquiry and experiment, or on absolute demonstration, have been led
hastily to conclude, that there was a general tendency in the efforts of
the human intellect to improve by repetition, and, in all other arts and
institutions, to grow perfect and mature by time.  We look back upon the
theological creed of our ancestors, and their discoveries in natural
philosophy, with a smile of pity: science, and the arts connected with
it, have all had their infancy, their youth, and manhood, and seem to
contain in them no principle of limitation or decay: and, inquiring no
farther about the matter, we infer, in the intoxication of our pride,
and the height of our self-congratulation, that the same progress has
been made, and will continue to be made, in all other things which are
the work of man.  The fact, however, stares us so plainly in the face,
that one would think the smallest reflection must suggest the truth, and
overturn our sanguine theories.  The greatest poets, the ablest orators,
the best painters, and the finest sculptors that the world ever saw,
appeared soon after the birth of these arts, and lived in a state of
society which was, in other respects, comparatively barbarous.  Those
arts, which depend on individual genius and incommunicable power, have
always leaped at once from infancy to manhood, from the first rude dawn
of invention to their meridian height and dazzling lustre, and have in
general declined ever after.  This is the peculiar distinction and
privilege of each, of science and of art:--of the one, never to attain
its utmost limit of perfection; and of the other, to arrive at it almost
at once.  Homer, Chaucer, Spenser, Shakspeare, Dante, and Ariosto,
(Milton alone was of a later age, and not the worse for it)--Raphael,
Titian, Michael Angelo, Correggio, Cervantes, and Boccaccio, the Greek
sculptors and tragedians,--all lived near the beginning of their arts
--perfected, and all but created them.  These giant-sons of genius stand
indeed upon the earth, but they tower above their fellows; and the long
line of their successors, in different ages, does not interpose any
object to obstruct their view, or lessen their brightness.  In strength
and stature they are unrivalled; in grace and beauty they have not been
surpassed.  In after-ages, and more refined periods, (as they are called)
great men have arisen, one by one, as it were by throes and at
intervals; though in general the best of these cultivated and artificial
minds were of an inferior order; as Tasso and Pope, among poets; Guido
and Vandyke, among painters.  But in the earlier stages of the arts, as
soon as the first mechanical difficulties had been got over, and the
language was sufficiently acquired, they rose by clusters, and in
constellations, never so to rise again!

The arts of painting and poetry are conversant with the world of
thought within us, and with the world of sense around us--with what we
know, and see, and feel intimately.  They flow from the sacred shrine of
our own breasts, and are kindled at the living lamp of nature.  But the
pulse of the passions assuredly beat as high, the depths and soundings
of the human heart were as well understood three thousand, or three
hundred years ago, as they are at present: the face of nature, and "the
human face divine" shone as bright then as they have ever done.  But it
is _their_ light, reflected by true genius on art, that marks out its
path before it, and sheds a glory round the Muses' feet, like that which

               "Circled Una's angel face,
      And made a sunshine in the shady place."

The four greatest names in English poetry, are almost the four first
we come to--Chaucer, Spenser, Shakspeare, and Milton.  There are no
others that can really be put in competition with these.  The two last
have had justice done them by the voice of common fame.  Their names are
blazoned in the very firmament of reputation; while the two first
(though "the fault has been more in their stars than in themselves that
they are underlings") either never emerged far above the horizon, or
were too soon involved in the obscurity of time.  The three first of
these are excluded from Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets (Shakspeare
indeed is so from the dramatic form of his compositions): and the
fourth, Milton, is admitted with a reluctant and churlish welcome.

In comparing these four writers together, it might be said that
Chaucer excels as the poet of manners, or of real life; Spenser, as the
poet of romance; Shakspeare as the poet of nature (in the largest use of
the term); and Milton, as the poet of morality.  Chaucer most frequently
describes things as they are; Spenser, as we wish them to be;
Shakspeare, as they would be; and Milton as they ought to be.  As poets,
and as great poets, imagination, that is, the power of feigning things
according to nature, was common to them all: but the principle or moving
power, to which this faculty was most subservient in Chaucer, was habit,
or inveterate prejudice; in Spenser, novelty, and the love of the
marvellous; in Shakspeare, it was the force of passion, combined with
every variety of possible circumstances; and in Milton, only with the
highest.  The characteristic of Chaucer is intensity; of Spenser,
remoteness; of Milton, elevation; of Shakspeare, every thing.--It has
been said by some critic, that Shakspeare was distinguished from the
other dramatic writers of his day only by his wit; that they had all his
other qualities but that; that one writer had as much sense, another as
much fancy, another as much knowledge of character, another the same
depth of passion, and another as great a power of language.  This
statement is not true; nor is the inference from it well-founded, even
if it were.  This person does not seem to have been aware that, upon his
own shewing, the great distinction of Shakspeare's genius was its
virtually including the genius of all the great men of his age, and not
his differing from them in one accidental particular.  But to have done
with such minute and literal trifling.

The striking peculiarity of Shakspeare's mind was its generic
quality, its power of communication with all other minds--so that it
contained a universe of thought and feeling within itself, and had no
one peculiar bias, or exclusive excellence more than another.  He was
just like any other man, but that he was like all other men.  He was the
least of an egotist that it was possible to be.  He was nothing in
himself; but he was all that others were, or that they could become.  He
not only had in himself the germs of every faculty and feeling, but he
could follow them by anticipation, intuitively, into all their
conceivable ramifications, through every change of fortune or conflict
of passion, or turn of thought.  He had "a mind reflecting ages past,"
and present:--all the people that ever lived are there.  There was no
respect of persons with him.  His genius shone equally on the evil and on
the good, on the wise and the foolish, the monarch and the beggar: "All
corners of the earth, kings, queens, and states, maids, matrons, nay,
the secrets of the grave," are hardly hid from his searching glance.  He
was like the genius of humanity, changing places with all of us at
pleasure, and playing with our purposes as with his own.  He turned the
globe round for his amusement, and surveyed the generations of men, and
the individuals as they passed, with their different concerns, passions,
follies, vices, virtues, actions, and motives--as well those that they
knew, as those which they did not know, or acknowledge to themselves.
The dreams of childhood, the ravings of despair, were the toys of his
fancy.  Airy beings waited at his call, and came at his bidding.  Harmless
fairies "nodded to him, and did him curtesies": and the night-hag
bestrode the blast at the command of "his so potent art." The world of
spirits lay open to him, like the world of real men and women: and there
is the same truth in his delineations of the one as of the other; for if
the preternatural characters he describes could be supposed to exist,
they would speak, and feel, and act, as he makes them.  He had only to
think of any thing in order to become that thing, with all the
circumstances belonging to it.  When he conceived of a character, whether
real or imaginary, he not only entered into all its thoughts and
feelings, but seemed instantly, and as if by touching a secret spring,
to be surrounded with all the same objects, "subject to the same skyey
influences," the same local, outward, and unforeseen accidents which
would occur in reality.  Thus the character of Caliban not only stands
before us with a language and manners of its own, but the scenery and
situation of the enchanted island he inhabits, the traditions of the
place, its strange noises, its hidden recesses, "his frequent haunts and
ancient neighbourhood," are given with a miraculous truth of nature, and
with all the familiarity of an old recollection.  The whole "coheres
semblably together" in time, place, and circumstance.  In reading this
author, you do not merely learn what his characters say,--you see their
persons.  By something expressed or understood, you are at no loss to
decypher their peculiar physiognomy, the meaning of a look, the
grouping, the bye-play, as we might see it on the stage.  A word, an
epithet paints a whole scene, or throws us back whole years in the
history of the person represented.  So (as it has been ingeniously
remarked) when Prospero describes himself as left alone in the boat with
his daughter, the epithet which he applies to her, "Me and thy _crying_
self," flings the imagination instantly back from the grown woman to the
helpless condition of infancy, and places the first and most trying
scene of his misfortunes before us, with all that he must have suffered
in the interval.  How well the silent anguish of Macduff is conveyed to
the reader, by the friendly expostulation of Malcolm--"What! man,
ne'er pull your hat upon your brows!" Again, Hamlet, in the scene with
Rosencrans and Guildenstern, somewhat abruptly concludes his fine
soliloquy on life by saying, "Man delights not me, nor woman neither,
though by your smiling you seem to say so." Which is explained by their
answer--"My lord, we had no such stuff in our thoughts.  But we smiled
to think, if you delight not in man, what lenten entertainment the
players shall receive from you, whom we met on the way":--as if while
Hamlet was making this speech, his two old schoolfellows from Wittenberg
had been really standing by, and he had seen them smiling by stealth, at
the idea of the players crossing their minds.  It is not "a combination
and a form" of words, a set speech or two, a preconcerted theory of a
character, that will do this: but all the persons concerned must have
been present in the poet's imagination, as at a kind of rehearsal; and
whatever would have passed through their minds on the occasion, and have
been observed by others, passed through his, and is made known to the
reader.--I may add in passing, that Shakspeare always gives the best
directions for the costume and carriage of his heroes.  Thus to take one
example, Ophelia gives the following account of Hamlet; and as Ophelia
had seen Hamlet, I should think her word ought to be taken against that
of any modern authority.

          "_Ophelia_.    My lord, as I was reading in my closet,
      Prince Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
      No hat upon his head, his stockings loose,
      Ungartred, and down-gyved to his ancle,
      Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
      And with a look so piteous,
      As if he had been sent from hell
      To speak of horrors, thus he comes before me.
          _Polonius_.    Mad for thy love!
          _Oph_.    My lord, I do not know,
      But truly I do fear it.
          _Pol_.    What said he?
          _Oph_.    He took me by the wrist, and held me hard,
      Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
      And with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
      He falls to such perusal of my face,
      As he would draw it: long staid he so;
      At last, a little shaking of my arm,
      And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
      He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound,
      As it did seem to shatter all his bulk,
      And end his being.  He allowed an American armed
      liner to capture, off the port, a steamer
      that was bringing him 3000 tons of much-needed
      coal, though he might have saved her by sending
      one of his cruisers outside the headlands.
                                                He allowed an inferior force to blockade the entrance for some
days, without bringing out his cruisers by day to engage them, or
sending out his destroyers by night to torpedo them.

He waited until there was an overwhelming force assembled off the
harbour.

Then came a month of deadlock. He was blockaded by a vastly
superior force that watched the narrow pass through which, if he left
the harbour, his fleet must come out one by one.

      But so long as he was within the headlands
      he was unassailable.

Admiral Sampson declined to risk his ships in an attempt to force the
narrow entrance and destroy the Spanish squadron inside. An attempt to
"bottle up" Cervera, by sinking a tramp steamer, the "Merrimac," in the
entrance, proved a failure. Long-ranging bombardments produced no
effect on the Spaniards. All the plans formed at Washington for the Cuban
campaign were disorganized. The blockade of the island had become the
blockade of the one port of Santiago. If the United States Government
had known how short of supplies were the city and garrison of Santiago
and Cervera's fleet, it might have trusted to the blockade by sea and
the operations of the insurgents by land, with the help of a few regulars,
to force the Spanish admiral either to surrender or come out and fight.
But it was decided to abandon for the present the projected attack on
Havana, and send the army, collected for this purpose at Tampa, to
attack Santiago by land, and so deprive Cervera of his refuge in the
harbour.

Santiago was defended by lines of entrenchments with some improvised outworks,
and garrisoned by a division under General Linares. The American
transports from Tampa began to arrive on 20 June, and the expeditionary
force, under General Shafter, was disembarked during the following days
some miles east of the city. There was then an advance over mere forest
tracks through hilly country covered with dense bush. Cervera landed
seamen gunners with machine-guns and light quick-firers to strengthen
the defence, and anchored one of his cruisers so that her heavy artillery
could enfilade an attack on the entrenchments nearest the
harbour.

On 1 July Shafter made his attack. The Spaniards defended themselves
with such obstinate energy that after fighting through a long summer
day only two outposts had been taken by the Americans, and at the cost
of heavy loss. Next day there was desultory fighting along the front,
but no progress. It was difficult to bring up supplies along the forest
tracks, now sodden with tropical rains. Sickness had broken
out in the American lines. The resistance of the Spaniards showed a
dogged determination that was a surprise to the invaders.

Shafter himself was ill. Late on Saturday, 2 July, he appealed to Admiral
Sampson to help him by forcing the narrows at all costs, and in the
early hours of Sunday, the 3rd, he sent off to his Government a dispatch
which was a confession of failure.

This discouraging report was cabled to Washington early on the Sunday
morning, and caused deep dismay at the White House, but before
evening news arrived of events that had changed the whole situation.

The evening before (2 July) Mr. Ramsden, the British Consul at Santiago,
had written in his diary:--
"It seems incredible that the Americans with their large force
have not yet taken the place. The defence of the Spaniards has
been really heroic, the more so when you consider that they are half-starved
and sick. It was affirmed to-day that the squadron would leave this
evening, but they have not done so, though the pilots are on board. I
will believe it when I see them get out, and I wish they would. If they
do, they will fare badly outside."
During the Saturday Cervera had re-embarked the seamen landed for the
defence of the city, and had got up steam. He was going out because the
presence of his crews now only added to the difficulty of feeding the
half-starved garrison and population of the place. He had a short supply
of inferior coal, and the most he hoped for was that some of his ships
would elude, or fight their way past, the blockading squadron, and
reach Havana.
It is impossible to understand why, having decided to go out, he did
not make the attempt in the darkness of Saturday night, instead of waiting
for broad daylight next day.

In one respect he was fortunate. His coming out was a complete surprise
for the Americans, and found them quite unprepared, with some of their
best ships far from the scene of action. Admiral Sampson had steamed
off to the eastward in his flagship, the "New York," intending to land
at Siboney for his interview with General Shafter.

The battleship "Massachusetts" had gone with two of the lighter cruisers
to coal at Guantanamo. But there were quite enough ships left off the
seaward opening of the narrows, where four battleships, an armoured
cruiser, and two light craft were keeping up the blockade.

It was a bright summer day, with a light wind and a smooth sea. Due south
of the harbour entrance, and about 5 1/2 miles from it, lay the
battleship "Iowa." To the east of her lay the "Oregon," with the "Indiana"
between her and the land, and about two miles nearer in, west of the
"Iowa," was the battleship "Texas," with the armoured cruiser
"Brooklyn," Commodore Schley's flagship, lying between her and the
land, and still nearer in the small armed revenue cruiser "Vixen," lying
about three miles south-west of Morro Castle. On the other side of
the entrance, close in to the land, was a small armed steamer, the
"Gloucester." She had been purchased by the Navy Department on the outbreak
of the war from Mr. Pierpont Morgan, the banker, and renamed. Before
this she had been known as the steam yacht "Gloucester."

      She was commanded by one of the best officers of
      the United States Navy, Captain Wainwright,
      who had been second in command of the "Maine"
      when she was blown up in Havana harbour.

Wainwright was to show this day that even an armed steam yacht may do good
service in a modern naval action. All the ships except the "Oregon"
and the little "Gloucester" had let their fires burn low, and had hardly
any steam pressure on their boilers. At half-past nine the order was
given for the crews to fall in for general inspection. A few minutes
later an apprentice on board the "Iowa" called attention to a mass of
black smoke rising over the headlands of the harbour mouth. And then between
the cliffs of Morro and Socapa Points appeared the bows of Cervera's
flagship. An alarm gun rang out from the "Iowa," the signal, "Enemy
escaping--clear for action," fluttered out from the halyards of the
"Brooklyn," and on every ship the bugles sounded, the men rushed to their
battle stations, and the stokers worked madly to get steam on the
boilers.

Admiral Cervera, guided by a local pilot, Miguel Lopez, had led his
fleet down the harbour, the "Maria Teresa" being followed in
succession by the cruisers "Vizcaya," "Cristobal Colon," and "Oquendo,"
and the destroyers "Pluton" and "Furor." As the flagship entered the
ravine of the narrows Cervera signalled to his captains, "I wish you a
speedy victory!" Miguel Lopez, who was with him in the
conning-tower, remarked that the admiral gave his orders very deliberately,
and showed no sign of anxiety or excitement. He had asked Lopez to tell
him how soon he could turn to the westward. On a sign from the pilot, he
gave the order, "Starboard!" to the helmsman, put the engine-room
indicator to "Full speed," and told his captain to open fire. As
the guns roared out Cervera turned with a smile to Lopez and said, "You
have done your part well, pilot; I hope you will come out of this safe
and be well rewarded. You have deserved it."
The cruisers had run out with an interval of about 600 yards between the
ships. There was a longer gap between the last of them and the destroyers,
but the "Furor" was out within a quarter of an hour of the "Maria
Teresa's" appearance between the headlands. That quarter of an hour had
been a busy time for the Americans. The "Brooklyn" and the four
battleships had at once headed for the opening of the harbour, the
"Oregon" making the best speed till the steam pressure rose on the boilers
of her consorts. They were no sooner moving than they opened fire with
their forward guns, the Spanish cruisers and the batteries of Socapa
and Morro replying with shots, every one of which fell short.

As Cervera turned westward the American ships also altered their course
in the same direction. And now as the huge ships of the blockading
squadron, each wrapped in a fog of smoke from her guns, converged upon
the same course, there was a momentary danger of disastrous collision
between them, a danger accentuated by an unexpected manoeuvre of
Commodore Schley's ship, the "Brooklyn."

               The "Texas" and the "Iowa" just
      cleared each other in the smoke-cloud. As
      they sheered off from each other, the
      "Oregon," which had been following the "Iowa," came rushing between
the two ships, and the "Brooklyn" circled past their bows, suddenly
crossing their course.

Schley, in the first dash towards the Spaniards, had brought his
great cruiser within 3000 yards of the "Maria Teresa," then seeing
the Spanish flagship turning, as if to ram, he swung round to
starboard, bringing his broadside to bear on the enemy, but at the
same time heading for his own battleships.

He cleared them by completing a circle, coming back thus to the
westward course, which had at the same time been resumed by the Spanish
flagship. As the "Brooklyn" turned the battleships swept up between
her and the enemy, masking her fire, the "Oregon" leading, but the
speed of Schley's ship soon enabled him to secure a forward place in the
chase near the "Oregon."
While the giants were thus manoeuvring the little "Gloucester" had come
pluckily into action. Running in close under the Morro batteries,
Commander Wainwright had fired some shots at the enemy's cruisers. Then
realizing that his light guns could do them no vital harm, he almost
stopped the way on his ship, and waited to engage the destroyers. Out
came the "Furor" and "Pluton," turning eastward as they cleared the
entrance, and dashing for the "Gloucester" with a mass of foam piling
up over their bows. The "Indiana," the rearmost of the battleships, fired
some long-range shots at them, but it was a stream of small shells
from the "Gloucester's" quick-firers that stopped their rush.
The "Furor" was soon drifting towards the cliffs, enveloped in clouds
of escaping steam. The "Gloucester's" fire had killed her helmsman,
wrecked her steering gear, and cut up several of her steam-pipes,
making her engine-room uninhabitable. The "Pluton," not so badly
crippled, but with her hull penetrated in several places, was next turned
back.

The "New York," hurrying up from the eastward at the sound of
the firing, escorted by the torpedo-boat "Ericsson," fired on her at
long range. The "Pluton" kept her engines going just long enough to drive
her ashore under the Socapa cliffs. The "Furor" sank before she could
reach the land.

[Illustration: BATTLE OF SANTIAGO SHOWING PLACES WHERE THE SPANISH
SHIPS WERE DESTROYED & DOTTED LINE SHOWING GENERAL DIRECTION OF
THE RUNNING FIGHT, THUS-----]
There was now a running fight, the four Spanish cruisers steaming
westward close to the wooded shore, the American ships following them up
and pouring in a deadly fire from every gun that could be brought to
bear. It was soon evident that the Spaniards could not get up anything
like their trial speed, and their gunnery was so defective that there was
small chance of their stopping any of their pursuers by well-aimed
fire, or even of inflicting any appreciable loss or damage on them. The
"Maria Teresa" was the first to succumb. As she led the line out of the
harbour she had received the converging fire of the American ships, but
she had not suffered any serious injury.

      Until the American ships got up full
      steam the Spaniards had gained a little
      on them. An Englishman, Mr. Mason, who
      watched the cruisers from a hill near Morro, till at ten o'clock
the curve of the coast westward hid them from view, thought they
were successfully escaping.

So far as he could see they had not been badly hit, and none of the
Americans were yet abreast of them.

      But soon after the ships disappeared
      from the point of view near Morro, and
      when the "Maria Teresa" was only some six
      miles from the entrance, she suffered a
      series of injuries in rapid succession that put her out
      of action.
      
      It was the secondary armament of the American ships, the guns of
medium calibre, that proved most effective in the running fight.

It appears that the big 13 and 12-inch barbette and turret guns
only made two hits in the whole day.

      Two 12-inch shells fired simultaneously from
      a pair of guns struck the "Maria Teresa" just
      above the waterline on the port side, aft
      and below her stern turret.

They burst in the torpedo-room, killing and wounding every one there, blowing
a jagged hole in the starboard side, and setting the ship on fire. An
8-inch shell came into the after battery and exploded between decks,
causing many casualties. A 5-inch shell burst in the coal-bunkers
amidships, blew up the deck, and started a second fire.
Another destructive hit was made by an 8-inch shell a few feet forward
of the point where the pair of 12-inch shells had come in. The
official report thus describes its course:--
"An 8-inch shell struck the gun-deck just under the after-barbette, passed
through the side of the ship, and exploded, ranging aft. The damage done
by this shell was very great. All the men in the locality must have been
killed or badly wounded. The beams were torn and ripped. The fragments of
the shell passed across the deck and cut through the starboard side.
This shell also cut the fire main."
Shells from the lighter artillery of the American ships riddled the
funnels, and cut up the deck-houses. One of these shells, bursting near
the forward bridge, wounded Admiral Cervera slightly in the arm. He had
come outside the conning-tower the better to watch the progress of his
squadron.

                     The armour belt had kept
      the water-line of the ship intact, and her barbettes and heavy
guns were also protected efficiently by the local armour, but the
enemy's shell fire had told on the unarmoured structure, inflicted
heavy loss, and started two serious fires.

All efforts to get these under failed. The blazing tropic heat had
scorched the woodwork of the ship into tinder, the movement of
the vessel produced a draught that made the burning bunkers and decks
roaring masses of flame. The men were driven by the heat from battery
and engine-room. The "Maria Teresa," with silent guns and masses of black
smoke ascending to the sky, was headed for the land. At a quarter-past
ten she drove ashore at Nimanima, 6 1/2 miles west of Morro Castle.
Some of the men swam ashore, others were taken off by the boats of the
"Gloucester," which came up just in time to help in saving life. Commander
Wainwright had to land a party to drive off a mob of Cuban guerillas,
who came down to the shore, and were murdering the hapless Spaniards as
they swam to the land. One of the "Gloucester's" boats took out
of the water Admiral Cervera and his son, Lieutenant Cervera.
They were brought on board the yacht, where Wainwright chivalrously
greeted the unfortunate admiral with the words: "I congratulate
you, sir, on having made as gallant a fight as was ever witnessed
on the sea."

               At half-past ten another of the
      Spanish cruisers was a helpless wreck only
      half a mile westward of the stranded and burning flagship.

This was the "Almirante Oquendo," whose station had been last in the
line. This drew upon her a converging fire from the guns of the pursuing
battleships and cruisers. The destruction was terrible. Two guns of the
secondary battery were disabled.

      A shell came through the roof of the forward
      turret, killed and wounded all the gun crew, and put the gun
permanently out of action.

Ventilators and deck-fittings were swept away, the funnels cut up, and
the unarmoured part of the sides repeatedly pierced by shells that
started several fires amidships. It was these that made further
effort to keep up the fight hopeless. After her captain, Juan
Lazaga, had been killed by a bursting shell, the "Oquendo," now
on fire in a dozen places, was driven ashore to save life. She blew up
on the beach, the explosion of her magazines nearly cutting the wreck in
two.

Of the Spanish squadron only the "Cristobal Colon" and the "Vizcaya"
still survived. The "Colon," best and newest of the cruisers, was making
good speed, and was furthest ahead. The "Vizcaya" lagged behind her,
hard pressed by several American ships, led by the "Iowa." The "Vizcaya"
had suffered severely from the fire of the pursuit. Her coal-bunkers
were ablaze on one side, and there was another fire making steady progress
in the gun-deck. Schley, in the "Brooklyn," urging his engines to the
utmost, rushed past the "Iowa," and attempted to head off the "Vizcaya."
Her gallant captain, Antonio Eulate, realized that the "Brooklyn" was
the swiftest ship in the pursuit, and that her destruction would
materially increase the chance of the "Colon" escaping. So he made
a last effort to ram or torpedo the "Brooklyn" before his own
ship succumbed. He headed for Schley with a torpedo ready in his bow
over-water tube. A shell from the "Brooklyn's" battery struck it fair,
exploded the torpedo in the tube, and blew up and set fire to the
forepart of the "Vizcaya." Eulate then headed his ship for the land, and
she struck the shore under the cliffs at Asseradores, fifteen miles
west of Morro, at a quarter-past eleven. The "Brooklyn," the "Iowa,"
and the "Oregon" were pouring their fire into her as she ran aground.
Another explosion blew up part of her burning decks, and Eulate hauled
down his flag. The Americans cheered as they saw the flag come down
amid the clouds of smoke, but Captain Robley Evans, of the "Iowa,"
called out from the bridge to stop the cheers of his men.

"Don't cheer, boys. Those poor fellows are dying," he said. Evans,
with the "Iowa," stood by the burning ship to rescue the survivors.

The "Colon" alone remained. She had a lead of a good six miles, and many
thought she would escape. The "Brooklyn" led the pursuit, followed
closely by the battleships "Oregon" and "Texas," and the small
cruiser "Vixen," with Sampson's flagship, the "New York," far astern,
too far off to have any real share in the action. On her trials the
"Colon" had done 23 knots.
If she could have done anything like this in the rush out of Santiago,
she would have simply walked away from the Americans, but she never
did more than fourteen. For some time, even at this reduced speed,
she was so far ahead that there was no firing. It was not until ten
minutes past one that the "Brooklyn" and "Oregon" at last got within
range and opened fire with their forward heavy guns.Shakspeare discovers in his writings little religious enthusiasm, and
an indifference to personal reputation; he had none of the bigotry of
his age, and his political prejudices were not very strong.  In these
respects, as well as in every other, he formed a direct contrast to
Milton.  Milton's works are a perpetual invocation to the Muses; a hymn
to Fame.  He had his thoughts constantly fixed on the contemplation of
the Hebrew theocracy, and of a perfect commonwealth; and he seized the
pen with a hand just warm from the touch of the ark of faith.  His
religious zeal infused its character into his imagination; so that he
devotes himself with the same sense of duty to the cultivation of his
genius, as he did to the exercise of virtue, or the good of his country.
The spirit of the poet, the patriot, and the prophet, vied with each
other in his breast.  His mind appears to have held equal communion with
the inspired writers, and with the bards and sages of ancient Greece and
Rome;--

      "Blind Thamyris, and blind Maeonides,
      And Tiresias, and Phineus, prophets old."

He had a high standard, with which he was always comparing himself,
nothing short of which could satisfy his jealous ambition.  He thought of
nobler forms and nobler things than those he found about him.  He lived
apart, in the solitude of his own thoughts, carefully excluding from his
mind whatever might distract its purposes or alloy its purity, or damp
its zeal.  "With darkness and with dangers compassed round," he had the
mighty models of antiquity always present to his thoughts, and
determined to raise a monument of equal height and glory, "piling up
every stone of lustre from the brook," for the delight and wonder of
posterity.  He had girded himself up, and as it were, sanctified his
genius to this service from his youth.  "For after," he says, "I had from
my first years, by the ceaseless diligence and care of my father, been
exercised to the tongues, and some sciences as my age could suffer, by
sundry masters and teachers, it was found that whether aught was imposed
upon me by them, or betaken to of my own choice, the style by certain
vital signs it had, was likely to live; but much latelier, in the
private academies of Italy, perceiving that some trifles which I had in
memory, composed at under twenty or thereabout, met with acceptance
above what was looked for; I began thus far to assent both to them and
divers of my friends here at home, and not less to an inward prompting
which now grew daily upon me, that by labour and intense study (which I
take to be my portion in this life), joined with the strong propensity
of nature, I might perhaps leave something so written to after-times as
they should not willingly let it die.  The accomplishment of these
intentions, which have lived within me ever since I could conceive
myself anything worth to my country, lies not but in a power above man's
to promise; but that none hath by more studious ways endeavoured, and
with more unwearied spirit that none shall, that I dare almost aver of
myself, as far as life and free leisure will extend.  Neither do I think
it shame to covenant with any knowing reader, that for some few years
yet, I may go on trust with him toward the payment of what I am now
indebted, as being a work not to be raised from the heat of youth or the
vapours of wine; like that which flows at waste from the pen of some
vulgar amourist, or the trencher fury of a rhyming parasite, nor to be
obtained by the invocation of Dame Memory and her Siren daughters, but
by devout prayer to that eternal spirit who can enrich with all
utterance and knowledge, and sends out his Seraphim with the hallowed
fire of his altar, to touch and purify the lips of whom he pleases: to
this must be added industrious and select reading, steady observation,
and insight into all seemly and generous arts and affairs.  Although it
nothing content me to have disclosed thus much beforehand; but that I
trust hereby to make it manifest with what small willingness I endure to
interrupt the pursuit of no less hopes than these, and leave a calm and
pleasing solitariness, fed with cheerful and confident thoughts, to
embark in a troubled sea of noises and hoarse disputes, from beholding
the bright countenance of truth in the quiet and still air of delightful
studies."

So that of Spenser:

      "The noble heart that harbours virtuous thought,
        And is with child of glorious great intent,
      Can never rest until it forth have brought
        The eternal brood of glory excellent."

Milton, therefore, did not write from casual impulse, but after a
severe examination of his own strength, and with a resolution to leave
nothing undone which it was in his power to do.  He always labours, and
almost always succeeds.  He strives hard to say the finest things in the
world, and he does say them.  He adorns and dignifies his subject to the
utmost: he surrounds it with every possible association of beauty or
grandeur, whether moral, intellectual, or physical.  He refines on his
descriptions of beauty; loading sweets on sweets, till the sense aches
at them; and raises his images of terror to a gigantic elevation, that
"makes Ossa like a wart." In Milton, there is always an appearance of
effort: in Shakespeare, scarcely any.

Milton has borrowed more than any other writer, and exhausted every
source of imitation, sacred or profane; yet he is perfectly distinct
from every other writer.  He is a writer of centos, and yet in
originality scarcely inferior to Homer.  The power of his mind is stamped
on every line.  The fervour of his imagination melts down and renders
malleable, as in a furnace, the most contradictory materials.  In reading
his works, we feel ourselves under the influence of a mighty intellect,
that the nearer it approaches to others, becomes more distinct from
them.  The quantity of art in him shews the strength of his genius: the
weight of his intellectual obligations would have oppressed any other
writer.  Milton's learning has the effect of intuition.  He describes
objects, of which he could only have read in books, with the vividness
of actual observation.  His imagination has the force of nature.  He makes
words tell as pictures.

      "Him followed Rimmon, whose delightful seat
      Was fair Damascus, on the fertile banks
      Of Abbana and Pharphar, lucid streams."

The word _lucid_ here gives to the idea all the sparkling effect of the
most perfect landscape.

And again:

      "As when a vulture on Imaus bred,
      Whose snowy ridge the roving Tartar bounds,
      Dislodging from a region scarce of prey,
      To gorge the flesh of lambs and yeanling kids
      On hills where flocks are fed, flies towards the springs
      Of Ganges or Hydaspes, Indian streams;
      But in his way lights on the barren plains
      Of Sericana, where Chineses [sic] drive
      With sails and wind their cany waggons light."

If Milton had taken a journey for the express purpose, he could not have
described this scenery and mode of life better.  Such passages are like
demonstrations of natural history.  Instances might be multiplied without
end.

We might be tempted to suppose that the vividness with which he
describes visible objects, was owing to their having acquired an unusual
degree of strength in his mind, after the privation of his sight; but we
find the same palpableness and truth in the descriptions which occur in
his early poems.  In Lycidas he speaks of "the great vision of the
guarded mount," with that preternatural weight of impression with which
it would present itself suddenly to "the pilot of some small
night-foundered skiff": and the lines in the Penseroso, describing "the
wandering moon,"

      "Riding near her highest noon,
      Like one that had been led astray
      Through the heaven's wide pathless way,"

are as if he had gazed himself blind in looking at her.  There is also
the same depth of impression in his descriptions of the objects of all
the different senses, whether colours, or sounds, or smells--the same
absorption of his mind in whatever engaged his attention at the time.  It
has been indeed objected to Milton, by a common perversity of criticism,
that his ideas were musical rather than picturesque, as if because they
were in the highest degree musical, they must be (to keep the sage
critical balance even, and to allow no one man to possess two qualities
at the same time) proportionably deficient in other respects.  But
Milton's poetry is not cast in any such narrow, common-place mould; it
is not so barren of resources.  His worship of the Muse was not so simple
or confined.  A sound arises "like a steam of rich distilled perfumes";
we hear the pealing organ, but the incense on the altars is also there,
and the statues of the gods are ranged around! The ear indeed
predominates over the eye, because it is more immediately affected, and
because the language of music blends more immediately with, and forms a
more natural accompaniment to, the variable and indefinite associations
of ideas conveyed by words.  But where the associations of the
imagination are not the principal thing, the individual object is given
by Milton with equal force and beauty.  The strongest and best proof of
this, as a characteristic power of his mind, is, that the persons of
Adam and Eve, of Satan, &c. are always accompanied, in our imagination,
with the grandeur of the naked figure; they convey to us the ideas of
sculpture.  As an instance, take the following:

                   "------He soon
      Saw within ken a glorious Angel stand,
      The same whom John saw also in the sun:
      His back was turned, but not his brightness hid;
      Of beaming sunny rays a golden tiar
      Circled his head, nor less his locks behind
      Illustrious on his shoulders fledge with wings
      Lay waving round; on some great charge employ'd
      He seem'd, or fix'd in cogitation deep.
      Glad was the spirit impure, as now in hope
      To find who might direct his wand'ring flight
      To Paradise, the happy seat of man,
      His journey's end, and our beginning woe.
      But first he casts to change his proper shape,
      Which else might work him danger or delay:
      And now a stripling cherub he appears,
      Not of the prime, yet such as in his face
      Youth smiled celestial, and to every limb
      Suitable grace diffus'd, so well he feign'd:
      Under a coronet his flowing hair
      In curls on either cheek play'd; wings he wore
      Of many a colour'd plume sprinkled with gold,
      His habit fit for speed succinct, and held
      Before his decent steps a silver wand."

The figures introduced here have all the elegance and precision of a
Greek statue; glossy and impurpled, tinged with golden light, and
musical as the strings of Memnon's harp!

Again, nothing can be more magnificent than the portrait of
Beelzebub:

      "With Atlantean shoulders fit to bear
      The weight of mightiest monarchies:"

Or the comparison of Satan, as he "lay floating many a rood," to "that
sea beast,"

      "Leviathan, which God of all his works
      Created hugest that swim the ocean-stream!"

What a force of imagination is there in this last expression! What an
idea it conveys of the size of that hugest of created beings, as if it
shrunk up the ocean to a stream, and took up the sea in its nostrils as
a very little thing? Force of style is one of Milton's greatest
excellences.  Hence, perhaps, he stimulates us more in the reading, and
less afterwards.  The way to defend Milton against all impugners, is to
take down the book and read it.

Milton's blank verse is the only blank verse in the language (except
Shakspeare's) that deserves the name of verse.  Dr. Johnson, who had
modelled his ideas of versification on the regular sing-song of Pope,
condemns the Paradise Lost as harsh and unequal.  I shall not pretend to
say that this is not sometimes the case; for where a degree of
excellence beyond the mechanical rules of art is attempted, the poet
must sometimes fail.  But I imagine that there are more perfect examples
in Milton of musical expression, or of an adaptation of the sound and
movement of the verse to the meaning of the passage, than in all our
other writers, whether of rhyme or blank verse, put together, (with the
exception already mentioned).  Purity of form. Authors likewise.

The preference for antiquity as an abbreviation of the history of the human
race, as if there were an autochthonous creation here by which all
becoming might be studied.

The fact actually is that the foundations of this preference are being
removed one by one, and if this is not remarked by philologists themselves,
it is certainly being remarked as much as it can possibly be by
people outside their circle.

First of all history had its effect, and then linguistics brought
about the greatest diversion among philologists themselves, and
even the desertion of many of them.

                   They have still the schools
      in their hands: but for how long! In the form
      in which it has existed up to the
      present philology is dying out; the ground
      has been swept from under its feet. Whether
      philologists may still hope to maintain their
      status is doubtful; in any case they are a dying
      race.
      
      
      30
      The peculiarly significant situation of philologists: a class of
people to whom we entrust our youth, and who have to investigate
quite a special antiquity.

            The highest value is obviously
      attached to this antiquity. But if this antiquity
      has been wrongly valued, then the whole foundation
      upon which the high position of the philologist
      is based suddenly collapses. In any case this
      antiquity has been very differently valued, and
      our appreciation of the philologists has
      constantly been guided by it. These people
      have borrowed their power from the strong
      prejudices in favour of antiquity,--this must
      be made clear.
      
      Philologists now feel that when these
      prejudices are at last refuted, and antiquity
      depicted in its true colours, the favourable
      prejudices towards them will diminish
      considerably. _It is thus to the interest
      of their profession not to let a clear
      impression of antiquity come to light; in
      particular the impression that antiquity
      in its highest sense renders one "out of season?"_
      i.e., _an enemy to one's own time._
      It is also to the interest of philologists as a class not to let
their calling as teachers be regarded from a higher standpoint than
that to which they themselves can correspond.

31
It is to be hoped that there are a few people who look upon it as
a problem why philologists should be the teachers of our noblest
youths.

Perhaps the case will not be always so--It would be much more natural
_per se_ if our children were instructed in the elements of
geography, natural science, political economy, and sociology, if
they were gradually led to a consideration of life itself, and if
finally, but much later, the most noteworthy events of the past
were brought to their knowledge.

      A knowledge of antiquity should be among the last
      subjects which a student would
      take up; and would not this position of antiquity
      in the curriculum of a school be more
      honourable for it than the present
      one?--Antiquity is now used merely as a
      propædeutic for thinking, speaking, and writing;
      but there was a time when it was the essence of
      earthly knowledge, and people at that time
      wished to acquire by means of practical
      learning what they now seek to acquire
      merely by means of a detailed plan of study--a
      plan which, corresponding to the more advanced knowledge of the
age, has entirely changed.

Thus the inner purpose of philological teaching has been entirely altered;
it was at one time material teaching, a teaching that taught how to
live, but now it is merely formal.[2] 

32
If it were the task of the philologist to impart formal education,
it would be necessary for him to teach walking, dancing, speaking,
singing, acting, or arguing · and the so-called formal teachers did
impart their instruction this way in the second and third centuries.

      But only the training of a scientific
      man is taken into account, which
      results in "formal" thinking and writing, and hardly any speaking
at all.

33
If the gymnasium is to train young men for science, people now say
there can be no more preliminary preparation for any particular
science, so comprehensive have all the sciences become.

As a consequence teachers have to train their students generally, that
is to say for all the sciences--for scientificality in other words;
and for that classical studies are necessary! What a wonderful jump!
a most despairing justification! Whatever is, is right,[3] even
when it is clearly seen that the "right" on which it has been based
has turned to wrong.

34
It is accomplishments which are expected from us after a study of
the ancients: formerly, for example, the ability to write and speak.

But what is expected now! Thinking and deduction . but these things
are not learnt _from_ the ancients, but at best _through_ the ancients,
by means of science. Moreover, all historical deduction is very
limited and unsafe, natural science should be preferred.

35
It is the same with the simplicity of antiquity as it is with the simplicity
of style: it is the highest thing which we recognise and must imitate;
but it is also the last. Let it be remembered that the classic prose
of the Greeks is also a late result.

36

What a mockery of the study of the "humanities" lies in the fact that
they were also called "belles lettres" (bellas litteras)!

37
Wolf's[4] reasons why the Egyptians, Hebrews, Persians, and other Oriental
nations were not to be set on the same plane with the Greeks and Romans:
"The former have either not raised themselves, or have raised
themselves only to a slight extent, above that type of culture which
should be called a mere civilisation and bourgeois acquirement, as opposed
to the higher and true culture of the mind." He then explains
that this culture is spiritual and literary: "In a well-organised
nation this may be begun earlier than order and peacefulness in the outward
life of the people (enlightenment)."
He then contrasts the inhabitants of easternmost Asia ("like such
individuals, who are not wanting in clean, decent, and comfortable
dwellings, clothing, and surroundings; but who never feel the
necessity for a higher enlightenment") with the Greeks ("in the
case of the Greeks, even among the most educated inhabitants of
Attica, the contrary often happens to an astonishing degree; and
the people neglect as insignificant factors that which we, thanks
to our love of order, are in the habit of looking upon as the
foundations of mental culture itself").

38
Our terminology already shows how prone we are to judge the ancients
wrongly: the exaggerated sense of literature, for example, or, as
Wolf, when speaking of the "inner history of ancient erudition,"
calls it, "the history of learned enlightenment." 

39
According to Goethe, the ancients are "the despair of the emulator."

                       Voltaire said. "If the admirers
      of Homer were honest, they would acknowledge the boredom which
their favourite often causes them." 

40
The position we have taken up towards classical antiquity is at
bottom the profound cause of the sterility of modern culture; for
we have taken all this modern conception of culture from the
Hellenised Romans.

We must distinguish within the domain of antiquity itself: when we come
to appreciate its purely productive period, we condemn at the same time
the entire Romano-Alexandrian culture. But at the same time also we
condemn our own attitude towards antiquity, and likewise our philology.

41

      There has been an age-long battle between
      the Germans and antiquity, _i.e._, a
      battle against the old culture. It is
      certain that precisely what is best and deepest in the German
resists it.

The main point, however, is that such resistance is only justifiable in
the case of the Romanised culture; for this culture, even at that
time, was a falling-off from something more profound and noble. It is
this latter that the Germans are wrong in resisting.

42
Everything classic was thoroughly cultivated by Charles the Great, whilst
he combated everything heathen with the severest possible measures of
coercion. Ancient mythology was developed, but German mythology was
treated as a crime. The feeling underlying all this, in my opinion, was
that Christianity had already overcome the old religion ·
people no longer feared it, but availed themselves of the culture that
rested upon it. But the old German gods were feared.

A great superficiality in the conception of antiquity--little else than
an appreciation of its formal accomplishments and its knowledge--must
thereby have been brought about. We must find out the forces that stood
in the way of increasing our insight into antiquity. First of all, the
culture of antiquity is utilised as an incitement towards the
acceptance of Christianity · it became, as it were, the premium for
conversion, the gilt with which the poisonous pill was coated before
being swallowed.
Secondly, the help of ancient culture was found to be necessary as a weapon
for the intellectual protection of Christianity. Even the Reformation
could not dispense with classical studies for this purpose.

The Renaissance, on the other hand, now begins, with a clearer
sense of classical studies, which, however, are likewise looked
upon from an anti-Christian standpoint: the Renaissance shows an
awakening of honesty in the south, like the Reformation in the north.
They could not but clash; for a sincere leaning towards antiquity renders
one unchristian.

On the whole, however, the Church succeeded in turning classical
studies into a harmless direction . the philologist was invented,
representing a type of learned man who was at the same time a priest
or something similar. Even in the period of the Reformation people
succeeded in emasculating scholarship. It is on this account that
Friedrich August Wolf is noteworthy he freed his profession from the
bonds of theology.
This action of his, however, was not fully understood; for an aggressive,
active element, such as was manifested by the poet-philologists of
the Renaissance, was not developed. The freedom obtained benefited
science, but not man.

43
It is true that both humanism and rationalism have brought antiquity into
the field as an ally; and it is therefore quite comprehensible
that the opponents of humanism should direct their attacks against
antiquity also.

      Antiquity, however, has been misunderstood and
      falsified by humanism · it must rather be
      considered as a testimony against humanism, against
      the benign nature of man, &c. The opponents
      of humanism are wrong to combat antiquity
      as well; for in antiquity they have a strong
      ally.
      
      
      44
      It is so difficult to understand the ancients.
      We must wait patiently until the spirit
      moves us. The human element which antiquity
      shows us must not be confused with humanitarianism.
      This contrast must be strongly emphasised:
      philology suffers by endeavouring to
      substitute the humanitarian, young men are
      brought forward as students of philology in
      order that they may thereby become humanitarians.
      A good deal of history, in my opinion, is
      quite sufficient for that purpose. The brutal
      and self-conscious man will be humbled when he sees things and
values changing to such an extent.

The human element among the Greeks lies within a certain _naiveté_,
through which man himself is to be seen--state, art, society, military
and civil law, sexual relations, education, party. It is precisely the
human element which may be seen everywhere and among all peoples,
but among the Greeks it is seen in a state of nakedness and inhumanity
which cannot be dispensed with for purposes of instruction. In addition
to this, the Greeks have created the greatest number of individuals,
and thus they give us so much insight into men,--a Greek cook is more
of a cook than any other.

45
I deplore a system of education which does not enable people to understand
Wagner, and as the result of which Schopenhauer sounds harsh and
discordant in our ears . such a system of education has missed its aim.

46
(THE FINAL DRAFT OF THE FIRST CHAPTER.)

Il faut dire la vérité et s'immoler--VOLTAIRE.

Let us suppose that there were freer and more superior spirits who were
dissatisfied with the education now in vogue, and that they summoned
it to their tribunal, what would the defendant say to them? In all
probability something like this: "Whether you have a right to summon
anyone here or not, I am at all events not the proper person to be called.
It is my educators to whom you should apply. It is their duty to
defend me, and I have a right to keep silent. I am merely what they
have made me."
These educators would now be hauled before the tribunal, and among
them an entire profession would be observed · the philologists.

This profession consists in the first place of those men who make use
of their knowledge of Greek and Roman antiquity to bring up youths
of thirteen to twenty years of age, and secondly of those men whose task
it is to train specially-gifted pupils to act as future teachers--_i.e._,
as the educators of educators. Philologists of the first type are teachers
at the public schools, those of the second are professors at
the universities.

The first-named philologists are entrusted with the care of certain
specially-chosen youths, those who, early in life, show signs of talent
and a sense of what is noble, and whose parents are prepared to allow
plenty of time and money for their education. If other boys, who do not
fulfil these three conditions, are presented to the teachers, the
teachers have the right to refuse them. Those forming the second
class, the university professors, receive the young men who feel themselves
fitted for the highest and most responsible of callings, that of teachers
and moulders of mankind; and these professors, too, may refuse to have
anything to do with young men who are not adequately equipped or gifted
for the task.

If, then, the educational system of a period is condemned, a heavy
censure on philologists is thereby implied: either, as the consequence
of their wrong-headed view, they insist on giving bad education in
the belief that it is good; or they do not wish to give this bad
education, but are unable to carry the day in favour of education
which they recognise to be better.

      In other words, their fault is either due
      to their lack of insight or to their lack of will.
      In answer to the first charge they
      would say that they knew no better, and in answer to the second
that they could do no better.

As, however, these philologists bring up their pupils chiefly with
the aid of Greek and Roman antiquity, their want of insight in the
first case may be attributed to the fact that they do not understand
antiquity, and again to the fact that they bring forward antiquity into
the present age as if it were the most important of all aids to instruction,
while antiquity, generally speaking, does not assist in training, or at
all events no longer does so.

On the other hand, if we reproach our professors with their lack of
will, they would be quite right in attributing educational significance
and power to antiquity; but they themselves could not be said to be the
proper instruments by means of which antiquity could exhibit such power.

In other words, the professors would not be real teachers and would be
living under false colours, but how, then, could they have reached such
an irregular position? Through a misunderstanding of themselves and their
qualifications. In order, then, that we may ascribe to philologists
their share in this bad educational system of the present time, we may
sum up the different factors of their innocence and guilt in the
following sentence: the philologist, if he wishes for a verdict of
acquittal, must understand three things antiquity, the present time,
and himself · his fault lies in the fact that he either does not
understand antiquity, or the present time, or himself.

47
It is not true to say that we can attain culture through antiquity alone.
We may learn something from it, certainly; but not culture as the word
is now understood. Our present culture is based on an emasculated and
mendacious study of antiquity. In order to understand how ineffectual
this study is, just look at our philologists · they, trained upon
antiquity, should be the most cultured men. Are they?

48
Origin of the philologist. When a great work of art is exhibited there
is always some one who not only feels its influence but wishes to
perpetuate it.

      The same remark applies to a great state--to
      everything, in short, that man produces.
      Philologists wish to perpetuate the influence
      of antiquity and they can set about it
      only as imitative artists. Why not as men who
      form their lives after antiquity?
      
      
      49
      The decline of the poet-scholars is due in great
      part to their own corruption: their type is continually arising
again; Goethe and Leopardi, for example, belong to it.

Behind them
plod the philologist-savants.

This type has its origin in the sophisticism of the second
century.

50
Ah, it is a sad story, the story of philology! The disgusting erudition,
the lazy, inactive passivity, the timid submission.--Who was ever free?

51
When we examine the history of philology it is borne in upon us how few
really talented men have taken part in it. Among the most celebrated
philologists are a few who ruined their intellect by acquiring a
smattering of many subjects, and among the most enlightened of them
were several who could use their intellect only for childish tasks.
It is a sad story · no science, I think, has ever been so poor
in talented followers. Those whom we might call the intellectually
crippled found a suitable hobby in all this hair-splitting.

52
The teacher of reading and writing, and the reviser, were the first
types of the philologist.

53
Friedrich August Wolf reminds us how apprehensive and feeble were the
first steps taken by our ancestors in moulding scholarship--how even
the Latin classics, for example, had to be smuggled into the university
market under all sorts of pretexts, as if they had been contraband
goods. In the "Gottingen Lexicon" of 1737, J. M. Gesner tells us of the
Odes of Horace: "ut imprimis, quid prodesse _in severioribus studiis_
possint, ostendat."

54
I was pleased to read of Bentley "non tam grande pretium emendatiunculis
meis statuere soleo, ut singularem aliquam gratiam inde sperem aut exigam."

Newton was surprised that men like Bentley and Hare should quarrel
about a book of ancient comedies, since they were both theological
dignitaries.

55
Horace was summoned by Bentley as before a judgment seat, the authority
of which he would have been the first to repudiate. The admiration which
a discriminating man acquires as a philologist is in proportion to the
rarity of the discrimination to be found in philologists. Bentley's
treatment of Horace has something of the schoolmaster about it It would
appear at first sight as if Horace himself were not the object of discussion,
but rather the various scribes and commentators who have handed down
the text: in reality, however, it is actually Horace who is being
dealt with. It is my firm conviction that to have written a single
line which is deemed worthy of being commented upon by scholars of
a later time, far outweighs the merits of the greatest critic. There
is a profound modesty about philologists. The improving of texts is
an entertaining piece of work for scholars, it is a kind of riddle-solving;
but it should not be looked upon as a very important task. It would be
an argument against antiquity if it should speak less clearly to us
because a million words stood in the way!
56
A school-teacher said to Bentley, "Sir, I will make your grandchild
as great a scholar as you are yourself." "How can you do that,"
replied Bentley, "when I have forgotten more than you ever knew?"
57
Bentley's clever daughter Joanna once lamented to her father that
he had devoted his time and talents to the criticism of the works
of others instead of writing something original. Bentley remained
silent for some time as if he were turning the matter over in his
mind. At last he said that her remark was quite right; he himself
felt that he might have directed his gifts in some other channel.
Earlier in life, nevertheless, he had done something for the glory
of God and the improvement of his fellow-men (referring to his
"Confutation of Atheism"), but afterwards the genius of the pagans
had attracted him, and, _despairing of attaining their level in any
other way_, he had mounted upon their shoulders so that he might
thus be able to look over their heads.

58
Bentley, says Wolf, both as man of letters and individual, was
misunderstood and persecuted during the greater part of his life,
or else praised maliciously.
Markland, towards the end of his life--as was the case with so many
others like him--became imbued with a repugnance for all scholarly
reputation, to such an extent, indeed, that he partly tore up and
partly burnt several works which he had long had in hand.
Wolf says: "The amount of intellectual food that can be got from
well-digested scholarship is a very insignificant item."
In Winckelmann's youth there were no philological studies apart
from the ordinary bread-winning branches of the science--people
read and explained the ancients in order to prepare themselves for
the better interpretation of the Bible and the Corpus Juris.
59
In Wolf's estimation, a man has reached the highest point of
historical research when he is able to take a wide and general view
of the whole and of the profoundly conceived distinctions in the
developments in art and the different styles of art.He sees things in their eternal beauty, for
he sees them as they are; he feels them in their universal interest, for
he feels them as they affect the first principles of his and our common
nature.  Such was Homer, such was Shakspeare, whose works will last as
long as nature, because they are a copy of the indestructible forms and
everlasting impulses of nature, welling out from the bosom as from a
perennial spring, or stamped upon the senses by the hand of their maker.
The power of the imagination in them, is the representative power of all
nature.  It has its centre in the human soul, and makes the circuit of
the universe.

Pope was not assuredly a poet of this class, or in the first rank of
it.  He saw nature only dressed by art; he judged of beauty by fashion;
he sought for truth in the opinions of the world; he judged of the
feelings of others by his own.  The capacious soul of Shakspeare had an
intuitive and mighty sympathy with whatever could enter into the heart
of man in all possible circumstances: Pope had an exact knowledge of all
that he himself loved or hated, wished or wanted.  Milton has winged his
daring flight from heaven to earth, through Chaos and old Night.  Pope's
Muse never wandered with safety, but from his library to his grotto, or
from his grotto into his library back again.  His mind dwelt with greater
pleasure on his own garden, than on the garden of Eden; he could
describe the faultless whole-length mirror that reflected his own
person, better than the smooth surface of the lake that reflects the
face of heaven--a piece of cut glass or a pair of paste buckles with
more brilliance and effect, than a thousand dew-drops glittering in the
sun.  He would be more delighted with a patent lamp, than with "the pale
reflex of Cynthia's brow," that fills the skies with its soft silent
lustre, that trembles through the cottage window, and cheers the
watchful mariner on the lonely wave.  In short, he was the poet of
personality and of polished life.  That which was nearest to him, was the
greatest; the fashion of the day bore sway in his mind over the
immutable laws of nature.  He preferred the artificial to the natural in
external objects, because he had a stronger fellow-feeling with the
self-love of the maker or proprietor of a gewgaw, than admiration of
that which was interesting to all mankind.  He preferred the artificial
to the natural in passion, because the involuntary and uncalculating
impulses of the one hurried him away with a force and vehemence with
which he could not grapple; while he could trifle with the conventional
and superficial modifications of mere sentiment at will, laugh at or
admire, put them on or off like a masquerade-dress, make much or little
of them, indulge them for a longer or a shorter time, as he pleased; and
because while they amused his fancy and exercised his ingenuity, they
never once disturbed his vanity, his levity, or indifference.  His mind
was the antithesis of strength and grandeur; its power was the power of
indifference.  He had none of the enthusiasm of poetry; he was in poetry
what the sceptic is in religion.

It cannot be denied, that his chief excellence lay more in
diminishing, than in aggrandizing objects; in checking, not in
encouraging our enthusiasm; in sneering at the extravagances of fancy or
passion, instead of giving a loose to them; in describing a row of pins
and needles, rather than the embattled spears of Greeks and Trojans; in
penning a lampoon or a compliment, and in praising Martha Blount.

Shakspeare says,

         "------In Fortune's ray and brightness
      The herd hath more annoyance by the brize
      Than by the tyger: but when the splitting wind
      Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks,
      And flies fled under shade, why then
      The thing of courage,
      As roused with rage, with rage doth sympathise;
      And with an accent tuned in the self-same key,
      Replies to chiding Fortune."

There is none of this rough work in Pope.  His Muse was on a
peace-establishment, and grew somewhat effeminate by long ease and
indulgence.  He lived in the smiles of fortune, and basked in the favour
of the great.  In his smooth and polished verse we meet with no prodigies
of nature, but with miracles of wit; the thunders of his pen are
whispered flatteries; its forked lightnings pointed sarcasms; for "the
gnarled oak," he gives us "the soft myrtle": for rocks, and seas, and
mountains, artificial grass-plats, gravel-walks, and tinkling rills; for
earthquakes and tempests, the breaking of a flower-pot, or the fall of a
china jar; for the tug and war of the elements, or the deadly strife of
the passions, we have

      "Calm contemplation and poetic ease."

Yet within this retired and narrow circle how much, and that how
exquisite, was contained! What discrimination, what wit, what delicacy,
what fancy, what lurking spleen, what elegance of thought, what pampered
refinement of sentiment! It is like looking at the world through a
microscope, where every thing assumes a new character and a new
consequence, where things are seen in their minutest circumstances and
slightest shades of difference; where the little becomes gigantic, the
deformed beautiful, and the beautiful deformed.  The wrong end of the
magnifier is, to be sure, held to every thing, but still the exhibition
is highly curious, and we know not whether to be most pleased or
surprised.  Such, at least, is the best account I am able to give of this
extraordinary man, without doing injustice to him or others.  It is time
to refer to particular instances in his works.--The Rape of the Lock is
the best or most ingenious of these.  It is the most exquisite specimen
of _fillagree_ work ever invented.  It is admirable in proportion as it
is made of nothing.

      "More subtle web Arachne cannot spin,
      Nor the fine nets, which oft we woven see
      Of scorched dew, do not in th' air more lightly flee."

It is made of gauze and silver spangles.  The most glittering appearance
is given to every thing, to paste, pomatum, billet-doux, and patches.
Airs, languid airs, breathe around;--the atmosphere is perfumed with
affectation.  A toilette is described with the solemnity of an altar
raised to the Goddess of vanity, and the history of a silver bodkin is
given with all the pomp of heraldry.  No pains are spared, no profusion
of ornament, no splendour of poetic diction, to set off the meanest
things.  The balance between the concealed irony and the assumed gravity,
is as nicely trimmed as the balance of power in Europe.  The little is
made great, and the great little.  You hardly know whether to laugh or
weep.  It is the triumph of insignificance, the apotheosis of foppery and
folly.  It is the perfection of the mock-heroic! I will give only the two
following passages in illustration of these remarks.  Can any thing be
more elegant and graceful than the description of Belinda, in the
beginning of the second canto?

        "Not with more glories, in the ethereal plain,
      The sun first rises o'er the purpled main,
      Than, issuing forth, the rival of his beams
      Launch'd on the bosom of the silver Thames.
      Fair nymphs, and well-drest youths around her shone,
      But ev'ry eye was fix'd on her alone.
      On her white breast a sparkling cross she wore,
      Which Jews might kiss, and infidels adore.
      Her lively looks a sprightly mind disclose,
      Quick as her eyes, and as unfix'd as those:
      Favours to none, to all she smiles extends;
      Oft she rejects, but never once offends.
      Bright as the sun, her eyes the gazers strike;
      And like the sun, they shine on all alike.
      Yet graceful ease, and sweetness void of pride,
      Might hide her faults, if belles had faults to hide:
      If to her share some female errors fall,
      Look on her face, and you'll forget 'em all.

        This nymph, to the destruction of mankind,
      Nourish'd two locks, which graceful hung behind
      In equal curls, and well conspir'd to deck
      With shining ringlets the smooth iv'ry neck."

The following is the introduction to the account of Belinda's assault
upon the baron bold, who had dissevered one of these locks "from her
fair head for ever and for ever."

        "Now meet thy fate, incens'd Belinda cry'd,
      And drew a deadly bodkin from her side.
      (The same his ancient personage to deck,
      Her great, great grandsire wore about his neck,
      In three seal-rings; which after, melted down,
      Form'd a vast buckle for his widow's gown:
      Her infant grandame's whistle next it grew,
      The bells she jingled, and the whistle blew;
      Then in a bodkin grac'd her mother's hairs,
      Which long she wore, and now Belinda wears)."

I do not know how far Pope was indebted for the original idea, or the
delightful execution of this poem, to the Lutrin of Boileau.

The Rape of the Lock is a double-refined essence of wit and fancy, as
the Essay on Criticism is of wit and sense.  The quantity of thought and
observation in this work, for so young a man as Pope was when he wrote
it, is wonderful: unless we adopt the supposition, that most men of
genius spend the rest of their lives in teaching others what they
themselves have learned under twenty.  The conciseness and felicity of
the expression are equally remarkable.  Thus in reasoning on the variety
of men's opinion, he says--

      " 'Tis with our judgments, as our watches; none
      Go just alike, yet each believes his own."

Nothing can be more original and happy than the general remarks and
illustrations in the Essay; the critical rules laid down are too much
those of a school, and of a confined one.  There is one passage in the
Essay on Criticism in which the author speaks with that eloquent
enthusiasm of the fame of ancient writers, which those will always feel
who have themselves any hope or chance of immortality.  I have quoted the
passage elsewhere, but I will repeat it here.

      "Still green with bays each ancient altar stands,
      Above the reach of sacrilegious hands;
      Secure from flames, from envy's fiercer rage,
      Destructive war, and all-involving age.
      Hail, bards triumphant, born in happier days,
      Immortal heirs of universal praise!
      Whose honours with increase of ages grow,
      As streams roll down, enlarging as they flow."

These lines come with double force and beauty on the reader, as they
were dictated by the writer's despair of ever attaining that lasting
glory which he celebrates with such disinterested enthusiasm in others,
from the lateness of the age in which he lived, and from his writing in
a tongue, not understood by other nations, and that grows obsolete and
unintelligible to ourselves at the end of every second century.  But he
needed not have thus antedated his own poetical doom--the loss and
entire oblivion of that which can never die.  If he had known, he might
have boasted that "his little bark" wafted down the stream of time,

               "------With _theirs_ should sail,
      Pursue the triumph and partake the gale"--

if those who know how to set a due value on the blessing, were not the
last to decide confidently on their own pretensions to it.

There is a cant in the present day about genius, as every thing in
poetry: there was a cant in the time of Pope about sense, as performing
all sorts of wonders.  It was a kind of watchword, the shibboleth of a
critical party of the day.  As a proof of the exclusive attention which
it occupied in their minds, it is remarkable that in the Essay on
Criticism (not a very long poem) there are no less than half a score
successive couplets rhyming to the word _sense_.  This appears almost
incredible without giving the instances, and no less so when they are
given.

      "But of the two, less dangerous is the offence,
      To tire our patience than mislead our sense."--_lines_ 3, 4.

      "In search of wit these lose their common sense,
      And then turn critics in their own defence."--_l._ 28, 29.

      "Pride, where wit fails, steps in to our defence,
      And fills up all the mighty void of sense."--_l._ 209, 10.

      "Some by old words to fame have made pretence,
      Ancients in phrase, mere moderns in their sense."--_l._ 324, 5.

      " 'Tis not enough no harshness gives offence;
      The sound must seem an echo to the sense."--_l._ 364, 5.

      "At every trifle scorn to take offence;
      That always shews great pride, or little sense."--_l._ 386, 7.

      "Be silent always, when you doubt your sense,
      And speak, though sure, with seeming diffidence."--_l._ 366, 7.

      "Be niggards of advice on no pretence,
      For the worst avarice is that of sense."--_l._ 578, 9.

      "Strain out the last dull dropping of their sense,
      And rhyme with all the rage of impotence."--_l._ 608, 9.

      "Horace still charms with graceful negligence,
      And without method talks us into sense."--_l._ 653, 4.

I have mentioned this the more for the sake of those critics who are
bigotted idolisers of our author, chiefly on the score of his
correctness.  These persons seem to be of opinion that "there is but one
perfect writer, even Pope." This is, however, a mistake: his excellence
is by no means faultlessness.  If he had no great faults, he is full of
little errors.  His grammatical construction is often lame and imperfect.
In the Abelard and Eloise, he says--

      "There died the best of passions, Love and Fame."

This is not a legitimate ellipsis.  Fame is not a passion, though love
is: but his ear was evidently confused by the meeting of the sounds
"love and fame," as if they of themselves immediately implied "love, and
love of fame." Pope's rhymes are constantly defective, being rhymes to
the eye instead of the ear; and this to a greater degree, not only than
in later, but than in preceding writers.  The praise of his versification
must be confined to its uniform smoothness and harmony.  In the
translation of the Iliad, which has been considered as his masterpiece
in style and execution, he continually changes the tenses in the same
sentence for the purposes of the rhyme, which shews either a want of
technical resources, or great inattention to punctilious exactness.  But
to have done with this.

The epistle of Eloise to Abelard is the only exception I can think
of, to the general spirit of the foregoing remarks; and I should be
disingenuous not to acknowledge that it is an exception.  The foundation
is in the letters themselves of Abelard and Eloise, which are quite as
impressive, but still in a different way.  It is fine as a poem: it is
finer as a piece of high-wrought eloquence.  No woman could be supposed
to write a better love-letter in verse.  Besides the richness of the
historical materials, the high _gusto_ of the original sentiments which
Pope had to work upon, there were perhaps circumstances in his own
situation which made him enter into the subject with even more than a
poet's feeling.  The tears shed are drops gushing from the heart: the
words are burning sighs breathed from the soul of love.  Perhaps the poem
to which it bears the greatest similarity in our language, is Dryden's
Tancred and Sigismunda, taken from Boccaccio.  Pope's Eloise will bear
this comparison; and after such a test, with Boccaccio for the original
author, and Dryden for the translator, it need shrink from no other.
There is something exceedingly tender and beautiful in the sound of the
concluding lines:

      "If ever chance two wandering lovers brings
      To Paraclete's white walls and silver springs," &c.

The Essay on Man is not Pope's best work.  It is a theory which
Bolingbroke is supposed to have given him, and which he expanded into
verse.  But "he spins the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple
of his argument." All that he says, "the very words, and to the
self-same tune," would prove just as well that whatever is, is _wrong_,
as that whatever is, is _right_.  The Dunciad has splendid passages, but
in general it is dull, heavy, and mechanical.  The sarcasm already quoted
on Settle, the Lord Mayor's poet, (for at that time there was a city as
well as a court poet)

      "Now night descending, the proud scene is o'er,
      But lives in Settle's numbers one day more"--

is the finest inversion of immortality conceivable.  It is even better
than his serious apostrophe to the great heirs of glory, the triumphant
bards of antiquity!

The finest burst of severe moral invective in all Pope, is the
prophetical conclusion of the epilogue to the Satires:

        "Virtue may chuse the high or low degree,
      'Tis just alike to virtue, and to me;
      Dwell in a monk, or light upon a king,
      She's still the same belov'd, contented thing.
      Vice is undone if she forgets her birth,
      And stoops from angels to the dregs of earth.
      But 'tis the Fall degrades her to a whore:
      Let Greatness own her, and she's mean no more.
      Her birth, her beauty, crowds and courts confess,
      Chaste matrons praise her, and grave bishops bless;
      In golden chains the willing world she draws,
      And hers the gospel is, and hers the laws;
      Mounts the tribunal, lifts her scarlet head,
      And sees pale Virtue carted in her stead.
      Lo! at the wheels of her triumphal car,
      Old England's Genius, rough with many a scar,
      Dragged in the dust! his arms hang idly round,
      His flag inverted trains along the ground!
      Our youth, all livery'd o'er with foreign gold,
      Before her dance; behind her, crawl the old!
      See thronging millions to the Pagod run,
      And offer country, parent, wife, or son!
      Hear her black trumpet through the land proclaim,
      That _not to be corrupted is the shame_.
      In soldier, churchman, patriot, man in pow'r,
      'Tis av'rice all, ambition is no more!
      See all our nobles begging to be slaves!
      See all our fools aspiring to be knaves!
      The wit of cheats, the courage of a whore,
      Are what ten thousand envy and adore;
      All, all look up with reverential awe,
      At crimes that 'scape or triumph o'er the law;
      While truth, worth, wisdom, daily they decry:
      Nothing is sacred now but villainy.
      Yet may this verse (if such a verse remain)
      Show there was one who held it in disdain."

His Satires are not in general so good as his Epistles.  His enmity is
effeminate and petulant from a sense of weakness, as his friendship was
tender from a sense of gratitude.  I do not like, for instance, his
character of Chartres, or his characters of women.  His delicacy often
borders upon sickliness; his fastidiousness makes others fastidious.  But
his compliments are divine; they are equal in value to a house or an
estate.  Take the following.  In addressing Lord Mansfield, he speaks of
the grave as a scene,

      "Where Murray, long enough his country's pride,
      Shall be no more than Tully, or than Hyde."

To Bolingbroke he says--

         "Why rail they then if but one wreath of mine,
      Oh all-accomplish'd St. John, deck thy shrine?"

Again, he has bequeathed this praise to Lord Cornbury--

      "Despise low thoughts, low gains:
      Disdain whatever Cornbury disdains;
      Be virtuous and be happy for your pains."

One would think (though there is no knowing) that a descendant of this
nobleman, if there be such a person living, could hardly be guilty of a
mean or paltry action.

The finest piece of personal satire in Pope (perhaps in the world) is
his character of Addison; and this, it may be observed, is of a mixed
kind, made up of his respect for the man, and a cutting sense of his
failings.  The other finest one is that of Buckingham, and the best part
of that is the pleasurable.

               "------Alas! how changed from him,
      That life of pleasure and that soul of whim:
      Gallant and gay, in Cliveden's proud alcove,
      The bower of wanton Shrewsbury and love!"

Among his happiest and most inimitable effusions are the Epistles to
Arbuthnot, and to Jervas the painter; amiable patterns of the delightful
unconcerned life, blending ease with dignity, which poets and painters
then led.  Thus he says to Arbuthnot--

        "Why did I write?  What sin to me unknown
      Dipp'd me in ink, my parents' or my own?
      As yet a child, nor yet a fool to fame,
      I lisped in numbers, for the numbers came.
      I left no calling for this idle trade,
      No duty broke, no father disobey'd:
      The muse but serv'd to ease some friend, not wife;
      To help me through this long disease, my life?
      To second, Arbuthnot! thy art and care,
      And teach the being you preserv'd to bear.

        But why then publish?  Granville the polite,
      And knowing Walsh, would tell me I could write;
      Well-natur'd Garth inflam'd with early praise,
      And Congreve lov'd, and Swift endur'd my lays;
      The courtly Talbot, Somers, Sheffield read;
      E'en mitred Rochester would nod the head;
      And St. John's self (great Dryden's friend before)
      With open arms receiv'd one poet more.
      Happy my studies, when by these approv'd!
      Happier their author, when by these belov'd!
      From these the world will judge of men and books,
      Not from the Burnets, Oldmixons, and Cooks."

I cannot help giving also the conclusion of the Epistle to Jervas.

        "Oh, lasting as those colours may they shine,
      Free as thy stroke, yet faultless as thy line;
      New graces yearly like thy works display,
      Soft without weakness, without glaring gay;
      Led by some rule, that guides, but not constrains;
      And finish'd more through happiness than pains.
      The kindred arts shall in their praise conspire,
      One dip the pencil, and one string the lyre.
      Yet should the Graces all thy figures place,
      And breathe an air divine on ev'ry face;
      Yet should the Muses bid my numbers roll
      Strong as their charms, and gentle as their soul;
      With Zeuxis' Helen thy Bridgewater vie,
      And these be sung till Granville's Myra die:
      Alas! how little from the grave we claim!
      Thou but preserv'st a face, and I a name."

And shall we cut ourselves off from beauties like these with a
theory? Shall we shut up our books, and seal up our senses, to please
the dull spite and inordinate vanity of those "who have eyes, but they
see not--ears, but they hear not--and understandings, but they
understand not,"--and go about asking our blind guides, whether Pope
was a poet or not? It will never do.  Such persons, when you point out to
them a fine passage in Pope, turn it off to something of the same sort
in some other writer.  Thus they say that the line, "I lisp'd in numbers,
for the numbers came," is pretty, but taken from that of Ovid--_Et
quum conabar scribere, versus erat_.  They are safe in this mode of
criticism: there is no danger of any one's tracing their writings to the
classics.

Pope's letters and prose writings neither take away from, nor add to
his poetical reputation.  There is, occasionally, a littleness of manner,
and an unnecessary degree of caution.  He appears anxious to say a good
thing in every word, as well as every sentence.  They, however, give a
very favourable idea of his moral character in all respects; and his
letters to Atterbury, in his disgrace and exile, do equal honour to
both.  If I had to choose, there are one or two persons, and but one or
two, that I should like to have been better than Pope!

Dryden was a better prose-writer, and a bolder and more varied
versifier than Pope.  He was a more vigorous thinker, a more correct and
logical declaimer, and had more of what may be called strength of mind
than Pope; but he had not the same refinement and delicacy of feeling.
Dryden's eloquence and spirit were possessed in a higher degree by
others, and in nearly the same degree by Pope himself; but that by which
Pope was distinguished, was an essence which he alone possessed, and of
incomparable value on that sole account.  Dryden's Epistles are
excellent, but inferior to Pope's, though they appear (particularly the
admirable one to Congreve) to have been the model on which the latter
formed his.  His Satires are better than Pope's.  His Absalom and
Achitophel is superior, both in force of invective and discrimination of
character, to any thing of Pope's in the same way.  The character of
Achitophel is very fine; and breathes, if not a sincere love for virtue,
a strong spirit of indignation against vice.

Mac Flecknoe is the origin of the idea of the Dunciad; but it is less
elaborately constructed, less feeble, and less heavy.  The difference
between Pope's satirical portraits and Dryden's, appears to be this in a
good measure, that Dryden seems to grapple with his antagonists, and to
describe real persons; Pope seems to refine upon them in his own mind,
and to make them out just what he pleases, till they are not real
characters, but the mere driveling effusions of his spleen and malice.
Pope describes the thing, and then goes on describing his own
description till he loses himself in verbal repetitions.  Dryden recurs
to the object often, takes fresh sittings of nature, and gives us new
strokes of character as well as of his pencil.  The Hind and Panther is
an allegory as well as a satire; and so far it tells less home; the
battery is not so point-blank.  But otherwise it has more genius,
vehemence, and strength of description than any other of Dryden's works,
not excepting the Absalom and Achitophel.  It also contains the finest
examples of varied and sounding versification.  I will quote the
following as an instance of what I mean.  He is complaining of the
treatment which the Papists, under James II. received from the church of
England.

        "Besides these jolly birds, whose corpse impure
      Repaid their commons with their salt manure,
      Another farm he had behind his house,
      Not overstocked, but barely for his use;
      Wherein his poor domestic poultry fed,
      And from his pious hand "received their bread."
      Our pampered pigeons, with malignant eyes,
      Beheld these inmates, and their nurseries;
      Though hard their fare, at evening, and at morn,
      (A cruise of water, and an ear of corn,)
      Yet still they grudged that _modicum,_ and thought
      A sheaf in every single grain was brought.
      Fain would they filch that little food away,
      While unrestrained those happy gluttons prey;
      And much they grieved to see so nigh their hall,
      The bird that warned St. Peter of his fall;
      That he should raise his mitred crest on high,
      And clap his wings, and call his family
      To sacred rites; and vex the ethereal powers
      With midnight mattins at uncivil hours;
      Nay more, his quiet neighbours should molest,
      Just in the sweetness of their morning rest.
      Beast of a bird! supinely when he might
      Lie snug and sleep, to rise before the light!
      What if his dull forefathers us'd that cry,
      Could he not let a bad example die?
      The world was fallen into an easier way:
      This age knew better than to fast and pray.
      Good sense in sacred worship would appear,
      So to begin as they might end the year.
      Such feats in former times had wrought the falls
      Of crowing chanticleers in cloister'd walls.
      Expell'd for this, and for their lands they fled;
      And sister Partlet with her hooded head
      Was hooted hence, because she would not pray a-bed."


There is a magnanimity of abuse in some of these epithets, a fearless
choice of topics of invective, which may be considered as the heroical
in satire.

The _Annus Mirabilis_ is a tedious performance; it is a tissue of
far-fetched, heavy, lumbering conceits, and in the worst style of what
has been denominated metaphysical poetry.  His Odes in general are of the
same stamp; they are the hard-strained offspring of a meagre,
meretricious fancy.  The famous Ode on St. Cecilia deserves its
reputation; for, as piece of poetical mechanism to be set to music, or
recited in alternate strophe and antistrophe, with classical allusions,
and flowing verse, nothing can be better.  It is equally fit to be said
or sung; it is not equally good to read.  It is lyrical, without being
epic or dramatic.  For instance, the description of Bacchus,

      "The jolly god in triumph comes,
      Sound the trumpets, beat the drums;
      Flush'd with a purple grace,
      He shews his honest face"--

does not answer, as it ought, to our idea of the God, returning from the
conquest of India, with satyrs and wild beasts, that he had tamed,
following in his train; crowned with vine leaves, and riding in a
chariot drawn by leopards--such as we have seen him painted by Titian
or Rubens! Lyrical poetry, of all others, bears the nearest resemblance
to painting: it deals in hieroglyphics and passing figures, which depend
for effect, not on the working out, but on the selection.  It is the
dance and pantomime of poetry.  In variety and rapidity of movement, the
Alexander's Feast has all that can be required in this respect; it only
wants loftiness and truth of character.

Dryden's plays are better than Pope could have written; for though he
does not go out of himself by the force of imagination, he goes out of
himself by the force of common-places and rhetorical dialogue.  On the
other hand, they are not so good as Shakspeare's; but he has left the
best character of Shakspeare that has ever been written. [5]

His alterations from Chaucer and Boccaccio shew a greater knowledge
of the taste of his readers and power of pleasing them, than
acquaintance with the genius of his authors.  He ekes out the lameness of
the verse in the former, and breaks the force of the passion in both.
The Tancred and Sigismunda is the only general exception, in which, I
think, he has fully retained, if not improved upon, the impassioned
declamation of the original.  The Honoria has none of the bewildered,
dreary, preternatural effect of Boccaccio's story.  Nor has the Flower
and the Leaf any thing of the enchanting simplicity and concentrated
feeling of Chaucer's romantic fiction.  Dryden, however, sometimes seemed
to indulge himself as well as his readers, as in keeping entire that
noble line in Palamon's address to Venus:

      "Thou gladder of the mount of Cithaeron!"

His Tales have been, upon the whole, the most popular of his works;
and I should think that a translation of some of the other serious tales
in Boccaccio and Chaucer, as that of Isabella, the Falcon, of Constance,
the Prioress's Tale, and others, if executed with taste and spirit,
could not fail to succeed in the present day.

___
[5] "To begin then with Shakspeare: he was the man who of all modern,
and perhaps ancient poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul.
All the images of nature were still present to him, and he drew them not
laboriously, but luckily: when he describes any thing, you more than see
it, you feel it too.  Those who accuse him to have wanted learning, give
him the greater commendation: he was naturally learned: he needed not
the spectacles of books to read nature; he looked inwards and found her
there.  I cannot say, he is every where alike; were he so, I should do
him injury to compare him with the greatest of mankind.  He is many times
flat, and insipid; his comic wit degenerating into clenches, his serious
swelling into bombast.  But he is always great, when some great occasion
is presented to him.  No man can say, he ever had a fit subject for his
wit, and did not then raise himself as high above the rest of poets,
      _Quantum lenta solent inter Viburna Cupressi_."
___

It should appear, in tracing the history of our literature, that
poetry had, at the period of which we are speaking, in general declined,
by successive gradations, from the poetry of imagination, in the time of
Elizabeth, to the poetry of fancy (to adopt a modern distinction) in the
time of Charles I.; and again from the poetry of fancy to that of wit,
as in the reign of Charles II. and Queen Anne.  It degenerated into the
poetry of mere common places, both in style and thought, in the
succeeding reigns: as in the latter part of the last century, it was
transformed, by means of the French Revolution, into the poetry of
paradox.

Of Donne I know nothing but some beautiful verses to his wife,
dissuading her from accompanying him on his travels abroad, and some
quaint riddles in verse, which the Sphinx could not unravel.

Waller still lives in the name of Sacharissa; and his lines on the
death of Oliver Cromwell shew that he was a man not without genius and
strength of thought.

Marvel is a writer of nearly the same period, and worthy of a better
age.  Some of his verses are harsh, as the words of Mercury; others
musical, as is Apollo's lute.  Of the latter kind are his boat-song, his
description of a fawn, and his lines to Lady Vere.  His lines prefixed to
Paradise Lost are by no means the most favourable specimen of his
powers.

Butler's Hudibras is a poem of more wit than any other in the
language.  The rhymes have as much genius in them as the thoughts; but
there is no story in it, and but little humour.  He adds that Señor
Bartolome Maso is the favorite, and it is supposed that he will be the
successful candidate. The news of the election of Señor Capote
may not have been true, after all.

This messenger, who is named Aguirre, says he is the bearer of some
important messages and papers to the Cubans in America, but he will not
say what they are until he has laid them before the proper authorities.

It is thought that they may have something to do with the exchange of
prisoners, and the recognition of the belligerency of the Cubans
by the Spanish army.

There has been great rejoicing during the last few days over the
escape from prison of a young Cuban, Evangelina Cisneros.

This girl displeased the Spanish commanders, and in revenge they accused
her of being a dangerous rebel, and had her thrown into prison.

She is a very young girl, but a little over fifteen years of age, but
the Spaniards thrust her into the prison where all the worst women
criminals were kept, and she had for her companions tipsy negresses
and all the roughest and worst kinds of women, white and colored.

Every one who heard of this thought it such a shameful thing for a delicate
young girl to be forced to spend her days in the society of such
terrible companions that the women of this country got up a monster
petition, thousands signing it, and sent it to the Queen of Spain.

This petition urged the Queen to have little Miss Cisneros removed to
a more suitable prison, and to order that she be given a speedy trial,
so that she might have an opportunity of proving her innocence.

Her Majesty, Queen Christine, did order that the girl should be less hardly
used, but General Weyler saw fit to disregard the royal instructions, and
the child was kept locked up in this horrid prison.

Finding that Weyler did not mean to help Señorita Cisneros, nor yet
to give her a proper trial, some friends went to her rescue.
Hiring a room opposite to her prison, two young men built a bridge of
planks by which they were enabled to reach the window of her prison,
and, as the story goes, after sending her drugged candies to give
to her room-mates so that they might sleep heavily and not hear
what was going on, these men sawed through the bars of her prison,
lifted her out on the roof beside them, and hurried her away over
the bridge to freedom.

        She was kept in concealment for a
      day or two, and then, disguised
      as a boy, passed under the nose
      of the police officer who
      was watching the steamers to
      prevent her escape to this
      country. Once on board and
      safely out of sight of Cuba, she
      confessed her secret to the
      stewardess, who gave her some
      woman's clothes, and took care of
      her until she was safely landed in
      New York.
      
      One of the New York papers, _The
      Journal_, claims the credit
      for the young girl's
      rescue, and states that the
      two men who freed her from her
      prison were reporters
      sent out from the paper
      to do the work. It is to be
      hoped that this is not true, for while
      we must sympathize with all
      unfortunate prisoners, we have no
      right to break open the jails of
      another country and free her
      criminals. If this story is
      true, Spain has a just cause of
      complaint against us.
      
      * * * * *
      Señor Sagasta has published
      the contents of the note
      presented to him by General Woodford,
      and which was said by so
      many people to be practically a
      declaration of war. It turns
      out to have been merely a polite
      inquiry as to how much longer
      the war was going to last, and
      whether Spain saw a possibility
      of bringing it to a speedy close.
      
      The Spanish Cabinet has not yet
      decided what answer shall be made
      to this note, but it is
      thought that Señor Sagasta
      will make a statement about the reforms
      that are about to be instituted
      in Cuba, and will ask that we
      wait and see the effect of these
      changes before we demand a positive
      answer to our letter.
      
      The dry-dock has been heard from.

The builders of the dock have
received a letter from the captain of the steamer that is towing
it.

The letter was written at Madeira, an island off the western coast
of Africa. In it the captain says that the dry-dock has excellent
seagoing qualities, and that he has no further fear of being able
to tow it safely into port.
Up to the time of writing, the captain had made eleven hundred miles
with his tow, and as he considered the worst part of the voyage
over, he expected to be able to increase the speed a little, and
arrive in Cuba about the 8th of November.ON THOMSON AND COWPER.


Thomson, the kind-hearted Thomson, was the most indolent of mortals
and of poets.  But he was also one of the best both of mortals and of
poets.  Dr. Johnson makes it his praise that he wrote "no line which
dying he would wish to blot." Perhaps a better proof of his honest
simplicity, and inoffensive goodness of disposition, would be that he
wrote no line which any other person living would wish that he should
blot.  Indeed, he himself wished, on his death-bed, formally to expunge
his dedication of one of the Seasons to that finished courtier, and
candid biographer of his own life, Bub Doddington.  As critics, however,
not as moralists, we might say on the other hand--"Would he had
blotted a thousand!"--The same suavity of temper and sanguine warmth
of feeling which threw such a natural grace and genial spirit of
enthusiasm over his poetry, was also the cause of its inherent vices and
defects.  He is affected through carelessness: pompous from unsuspecting
simplicity of character.  He is frequently pedantic and ostentatious in
his style, because he had no consciousness of these vices in himself.  He
mounts upon stilts, not out of vanity, but indolence.  He seldom writes a
good line, but he makes up for it by a bad one.  He takes advantage of
all the most trite and mechanical common-places of imagery and diction
as a kindly relief to his Muse, and as if he thought them quite as good,
and likely to be quite as acceptable to the reader, as his own poetry.
He did not think the difference worth putting himself to the trouble of
accomplishing.  He had too little art to conceal his art: or did not even
seem to know that there was any occasion for it.  His art is as naked and
undisguised as his nature; the one is as pure and genuine as the other
is gross, gaudy, and meretricious.--All that is admirable in the
Seasons, is the emanation of a fine natural genius, and sincere love of
his subject, unforced, unstudied, that comes uncalled for, and departs
unbidden.  But he takes no pains, uses no self-correction; or if he seems
to labour, it is worse than labour lost.  His genius "cannot be
constrained by mastery." The feeling of nature, of the changes of the
seasons, was in his mind; and he could not help conveying this feeling
to the reader, by the mere force of spontaneous expression; but if the
expression did not come of itself, he left the whole business to chance;
or, willing to evade instead of encountering the difficulties of his
subject, fills up the intervals of true inspiration with the most vapid
and worthless materials, pieces out a beautiful half line with a
bombastic allusion, or overloads an exquisitely natural sentiment or
image with a cloud of painted, pompous, cumbrous phrases, like the
shower of roses, in which he represents the Spring, his own lovely,
fresh, and innocent Spring, as descending to the earth.

      "Come, gentle Spring! ethereal Mildness! come,
      And from the bosom of yon dropping cloud,
      While music wakes around, veil'd in a shower
      Of shadowing roses, on our plains descend."

Who, from such a flimsy, round-about, unmeaning commencement as this,
would expect the delightful, unexaggerated, home-felt descriptions of
natural scenery, which are scattered in such unconscious profusion
through this and the following cantos? For instance, the very next
passage is crowded with a set of striking images.

      "And see where surly Winter passes off
      Far to the north, and calls his ruffian blasts:
      His blasts obey, and quit the howling hill,
      The shatter'd forest, and the ravag'd vale;
      While softer gales succeed, at whose kind touch
      Dissolving snows in livid torrents lost,
      The mountains lift their green heads to the sky.
      As yet the trembling year is unconfirmed,
      And Winter oft at eve resumes the breeze,
      Chills the pale morn, and bids his driving sleets
      Deform the day delightless; so that scarce
      The bittern knows his time with bill ingulpht
      To shake the sounding marsh, or from the shore
      The plovers when to scatter o'er the heath,
      And sing their wild notes to the list'ning waste."

Thomson is the best of our descriptive poets: for he gives most of
the poetry of natural description.  Others have been quite equal to him,
or have surpassed him, as Cowper for instance, in the picturesque part
of his art, in marking the peculiar features and curious details of
objects;--no one has yet come up to him in giving the sum total of
their effects, their varying influences on the mind.  He does not go into
the _minutiae_ of a landscape, but describes the vivid impression which
the whole makes upon his own imagination; and thus transfers the same
unbroken, unimpaired impression to the imagination of his readers.  The
colours with which he paints seem yet wet and breathing, like those of
the living statue in the Winter's Tale.  Nature in his descriptions is
seen growing around us, fresh and lusty as in itself.  We feel the effect
of the atmosphere, its humidity or clearness, its heat or cold, the glow
of summer, the gloom of winter, the tender promise of the spring, the
full overshadowing foliage, the declining pomp and deepening tints of
autumn.  He transports us to the scorching heat of vertical suns, or
plunges us into the chilling horrors and desolation of the frozen zone.
We hear the snow drifting against the broken casement without, and see
the fire blazing on the hearth within.  The first scattered drops of a
vernal shower patter on the leaves above our heads, or the coming storm
resounds through the leafless groves.  In a word, he describes not to the
eye alone, but to the other senses, and to the whole man.  He puts his
heart into his subject, writes as he feels, and humanises whatever he
touches.  He makes all his descriptions teem with life and vivifying
soul.  His faults were those of his style--of the author and the man;
but the original genius of the poet, the pith and marrow of his
imagination, the fine natural mould in which his feelings were bedded,
were too much for him to counteract by neglect, or affectation, or false
ornaments.  It is for this reason that he is, perhaps, the most popular
of all our poets, treating of a subject that all can understand, and in
a way that is interesting to all alike, to the ignorant or the refined,
because he gives back the impression which the things themselves make
upon us in nature.  "That," said a man of genius, seeing a little shabby
soiled copy of Thomson's Seasons lying on the window-seat of an obscure
country alehouse--"That is true fame!"

It has been supposed by some, that the Castle of Indolence is
Thomson's best poem; but that is not the case.  He has in it, indeed,
poured out the whole soul of indolence, diffuse, relaxed, supine,
dissolved into a voluptuous dream; and surrounded himself with a set of
objects and companions, in entire unison with the listlessness of his
own temper.  Nothing can well go beyond the descriptions of these inmates
of the place, and their luxurious pampered way of life--of him who
came among them like "a burnished fly in month of June," but soon left
them on his heedless way; and him,

      "For whom the merry bells had rung, I ween,
      If in this nook of quiet, bells had ever been."

The in-door quiet and cushioned ease, where "all was one full-swelling
bed"; the out-of-door stillness, broken only by "the stock-dove's plaint
amid the forest deep,"

      "That drowsy rustled to the sighing gale"--

are in the most perfect and delightful keeping.  But still there are no
passages in this exquisite little production of sportive ease and fancy,
equal to the best of those in the Seasons.  Warton, in his Essay on Pope,
was the first to point out and do justice to some of these; for
instance, to the description of the effects of the contagion among our
ships at Carthagena--"of the frequent corse heard nightly plunged amid
the sullen waves," and to the description of the pilgrims lost in the
deserts of Arabia.  This last passage, profound and striking as it is, is
not free from those faults of style which I have already noticed.

                    "------Breath'd hot
      From all the boundless furnace of the sky,
      And the wide-glitt'ring waste of burning sand,
      A suffocating wind the pilgrim smites
      With instant death.  Patient of thirst and toil,
      Son of the desert, ev'n the camel feels
      Shot through his wither'd heart the fiery blast.
      Or from the black-red ether, bursting broad,
      Sallies the sudden whirlwind.  Straight the sands,
      Commov'd around, in gath'ring eddies play;
      Nearer and nearer still they dark'ning come,
      Till with the gen'ral all-involving storm
      Swept up, the whole continuous wilds arise,
      And by their noon-day fount dejected thrown,
      Or sunk at night in sad disastrous sleep,
      Beneath descending hills the caravan
      Is buried deep.  In Cairo's crowded streets,
      Th' impatient merchant, wond'ring, waits in vain;
      And Mecca saddens at the long delay."

There are other passages of equal beauty with these; such as that of
the hunted stag, followed by "the inhuman rout,"

          "------That from the shady depth
      Expel him, circling through his ev'ry shift.
      He sweeps the forest oft, and sobbing sees
      The glades mild op'ning to the golden day,
      Where in kind contest with his butting friends
      He wont to struggle, or his loves enjoy."

The whole of the description of the frozen zone, in the Winter, is
perhaps even finer and more thoroughly felt, as being done from early
associations, than that of the torrid zone in his Summer.  Any thing more
beautiful than the following account of the Siberian exiles is, I think,
hardly to be found in the whole range of poetry.

      "There through the prison of unbounded wilds,
      Barr'd by the hand of nature from escape,
      Wide roams the Russian exile.  Nought around
      Strikes his sad eye but deserts lost in snow,
      And heavy-loaded groves, and solid floods,
      That stretch athwart the solitary vast
      Their icy horrors to the frozen main;
      And cheerless towns far distant, never bless'd,
      Save when its annual course the caravan
      Bends to the golden coast of rich Cathay,
      With news of human kind."

The feeling of loneliness, of distance, of lingering, slow-revolving
years of pining expectation, of desolation within and without the heart,
was never more finely expressed than it is here.

The account which follows of the employments of the Polar night--of
the journeys of the natives by moonlight, drawn by rein-deer, and of the
return of spring in Lapland--

      "Where pure Niemi's fairy mountains rise,
      And fring'd with roses Tenglio rolls his stream,"

is equally picturesque and striking in a different way.  The traveller
lost in the snow, is a well-known and admirable dramatic episode.  I
prefer, however, giving one example of our author's skill in painting
common domestic scenery, as it will bear a more immediate comparison
with the style of some later writers on such subjects.  But such inquiry
has no place in God; wherefore in this respect it is not ascribed
to God: in which sense Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 22): "God
takes not counsel: those only take counsel who lack knowledge."

      Reply Obj. 3: It may happen that things which are most
      certainly good in the opinion of wise and spiritual
      men are not certainly good in the opinion of
      many, or at least of carnal-minded men.
      Consequently in such things counsel may
      be given.
      ________________________
      SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 14, Art. 2]
      Whether Counsel Is of the End, or Only of the
      Means?
      
      Objection 1: It would seem that counsel is
      not only of the means but also of the end. For
      whatever is doubtful, can be the subject of
      inquiry. Now in things to be done by man
      there happens sometimes a doubt as to the end
      and not only as to the means. Since therefore
      inquiry as to what is to be done is counsel,
      it seems that counsel can be of the
      end.
      
      Obj. 2: Further, the matter of counsel is
      human actions. But some human actions are ends,
      as stated in _Ethic._ i, 1. Therefore counsel can
      be of the end.
      
      _On the contrary,_ Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius,
      De Nat. Hom. xxxiv.] says that "counsel is not
      of the end, but of the means."
      _I answer that,_ The end is the principle
      in practical matters:
      because the reason of the means is to be
      found in the end. Now the principle cannot be called
      in question, but must be presupposed in every inquiry.
      Since therefore counsel is an inquiry, it is not
      of the end, but only of the means.

Nevertheless it may happen that what is the end in regard to some
things, is ordained to something else; just as also what is the
principle of one demonstration, is the conclusion of another: and
consequently that which is looked upon as the end in one inquiry,
may be looked upon as the means in another; and thus it will become
an object of counsel.

Reply Obj. 1: That which is looked upon as an end, is already
fixed:
consequently as long as there is any doubt about it, it is not looked
upon as an end. Wherefore if counsel is taken about it, it will be counsel
not about the end, but about the means.

Reply Obj. 2: Counsel is about operations, in so far as they are ordained
to some end. Consequently if any human act be an end, it will
not, as such, be the matter of counsel.

________________________
THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 14, Art. 3]
Whether Counsel Is Only of Things That We Do?

Objection 1: It would seem that counsel is not only of things that
we do. For counsel implies some kind of conference. But it is possible
for many to confer about things that are not subject to movement,
and are not the result of our actions, such as the nature of various things.
Therefore counsel is not only of things that we do.

Obj. 2: Further, men sometimes seek counsel about things that are laid
down by law; hence we speak of counsel at law.

And yet those who seek counsel thus, have nothing to do in making the
laws. Therefore counsel is not only of things that we do.

Obj. 3: Further, some are said to take consultation about future events;
which, however, are not in our power. Therefore counsel is not only
of things that we do.

Obj. 4: Further, if counsel were only of things that we do, no one
would take counsel about what another does. But this is clearly untrue.
Therefore counsel is not only of things that we do.

_On the contrary,_ Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xxxiv.] says:
"We take counsel of things that are within our competency and that
we are able to do."
_I answer that,_ Counsel properly implies a conference held between
several; the very word (_consilium_) denotes this, for it means a
sitting together (_considium_), from the fact that many sit together in
order to confer with one another. Now we must take note that in
contingent particular cases, in order that anything be known for certain,
it is necessary to take several conditions or circumstances into
consideration, which it is not easy for one to consider, but are
considered by several with greater certainty, since what one takes
note of, escapes the notice of another; whereas in necessary and universal
things, our view is brought to bear on matters much more absolute
and simple, so that one man by himself may be sufficient to consider
these things. Wherefore the inquiry of counsel is concerned, properly
speaking, with contingent singulars. Now the knowledge of the truth in
such matters does not rank so high as to be desirable of itself, as is
the knowledge of things universal and necessary; but it is desired
as being useful towards action, because actions bear on things singular
and contingent. Consequently, properly speaking, counsel is about
things done by us.

Reply Obj. 1: Counsel implies conference, not of any kind, but about
what is to be done, for the reason given above.

Reply Obj. 2: Although that which is laid down by the law is not due
to the action of him who seeks counsel, nevertheless it directs him
in his action: since the mandate of the law is one reason for doing
something.

Reply Obj. 3: Counsel is not only about what is done, but also about
whatever has relation to what is done. And for this reason we speak of
consulting about future events, in so far as man is induced to do or
omit something, through the knowledge of future events.

Reply Obj. 4: We seek counsel about the actions of others, in so far
as they are, in some way, one with us; either by union of affection--thus
a man is solicitous about what concerns his friend, as though it
concerned himself; or after the manner of an instrument, for the principal
agent and the instrument are, in a way, one cause, since one acts through
the other; thus the master takes counsel about what he would do through
his servant.
________________________
FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 14, Art. 4]
Whether Counsel Is About All Things That We Do?

Objection 1: It would seem that counsel is about all things that we
have to do. For choice is the "desire of what is counselled" as stated
above (A. 1). But choice is about all things that we do.
Therefore counsel is too.

      Obj. 2: Further, counsel implies the reason's
      inquiry. But, whenever we do not act through
      the impulse of passion, we act in virtue
      of the reason's inquiry. Therefore there is counsel
      about everything that we do.
      
      Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic.
      iii, 3) that "if it appears that something
      can be done by more means than one, we
      take counsel by inquiring whereby it may be done
      most easily and best; but if it can be
      accomplished by one means, how it can be done
      by this." But whatever is done, is
      done by one means or by several. Therefore
      counsel takes place in all things that we
      do.
      
      _On the contrary,_ Gregory of Nyssa
      [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xxxiv.] says that
      "counsel has no place in things that are done
      according to science or art."
      _I answer that,_ Counsel is a kind of inquiry, as
      stated above (A. 1). But we are wont to inquire
      about things that admit of doubt; hence the process
      of inquiry, which is called an argument,
      "is a reason that attests something that
      admitted of doubt" [*Cicero, _Topic._ ad
      Trebat.]. Now, that something in relation
      to human acts admits of no doubt, arises from a
      twofold source. First, because certain
      determinate ends are gained by certain
      determinate means: as happens in the arts
      which are governed by certain fixed rules of
      action; thus a writer does not take counsel
      how to form his letters, for this is
      determined by art. Secondly, from the fact
      that it little matters whether it is
      done this or that way; this occurs in
      minute matters, which help or
      hinder but little with regard to the end aimed
      at; and reason looks upon small things as
      mere nothings. Consequently there are two
      things of which we do not take counsel,
      although they conduce to the end, as
      the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 3): namely,
      minute things, and those which have a
      fixed way of being done, as in works produced
      by art, with the exception of those arts
      that admit of conjecture such as medicine,
      commerce, and the like, as Gregory of Nyssa
      says [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xxiv.].
      
      Reply Obj. 1: Choice presupposes counsel
      by reason of its judgment or decision.
      Consequently when the judgment or decision is evident without
inquiry, there is no need for the inquiry of counsel.

Reply Obj. 2: In matters that are evident, the reason makes no inquiry,
but judges at once. Consequently there is no need of counsel in all
that is done by reason.

Reply Obj. 3: When a thing can be accomplished by one means, but in
different ways, doubt may arise, just as when it can be accomplished by
several means: hence the need of counsel. But when not only the means,
but also the way of using the means, is fixed, then there is no need
of counsel.
________________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 14, Art. 5]
Whether the Process of Counsel Is One of Analysis?

Objection 1: It would seem that the process of counsel is not one of
analysis.

        For counsel is about things that we do. But
      the process of our actions is not one of
      analysis, but rather one of synthesis, viz.
      from the simple to the composite. Therefore
      counsel does not always proceed by way of
      analysis.
      
      Obj. 2: Further, counsel is an inquiry
      of the reason. But reason proceeds from things
      that precede to things that follow, according
      to the more appropriate order. Since then, the
      past precedes the present, and the present
      precedes the future, it seems that in taking
      counsel one should proceed from the past and present to the future:
which is not an analytical process.

        Therefore the process of counsel is
      not one of analysis.
      
      Obj. 3: Further, counsel is only of such
      things as are possible to us, according
      to _Ethic._ iii, 3.

But the question as to whether a certain thing is possible to us,
depends on what we are able or unable to do, in order to gain such
and such an end.

        Therefore the inquiry of counsel should
      begin from things present.
      
      _On the contrary,_ The Philosopher says
      (Ethic. iii, 3) that "he who takes counsel
      seems to inquire and analyze."
      _I answer that,_ In every inquiry
      one must begin from some principle.
      And if this principle precedes both
      in knowledge and in being, the process is not
      analytic, but synthetic: because to proceed
      from cause to effect is to proceed
      synthetically, since causes are more simple than effects.

But if that which precedes in knowledge is later in the order of being,
the process is one of analysis, as when our judgment deals with effects,
which by analysis we trace to their simple causes. Now the principle
in the inquiry of counsel is the end, which precedes indeed in intention,
but comes afterwards into execution.
Hence the inquiry of counsel must needs be one of analysis, beginning
that is to say, from that which is intended in the future, and continuing
until it arrives at that which is to be done at once.

Reply Obj. 1: Counsel is indeed about action. But actions take their reason
from the end; and consequently the order of reasoning about actions
is contrary to the order of actions.

Reply Obj. 2: Reason begins with that which is first according to reason;
but not always with that which is first in point of time.

Reply Obj. 3: We should not want to know whether something to be
done for an end be possible, if it were not suitable for gaining that
end.
Hence we must first inquire whether it be conducive to the end,
before considering whether it be possible.
________________________
SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 14, Art. 6]
Whether the Process of Counsel Is Indefinite?

Objection 1: It would seem that the process of counsel is
indefinite.
For counsel is an inquiry about the particular things with which
action is concerned. But singulars are infinite. Therefore the
process of counsel is indefinite.

Obj. 2: Further, the inquiry of counsel has to consider not only
what is to be done, but how to avoid obstacles. But every human action
can be hindered, and an obstacle can be removed by some human reason.
Therefore the inquiry about removing obstacles can go on indefinitely.

Obj. 3: Further, the inquiry of demonstrative science does not go on
indefinitely, because one can come to principles that are self-evident,
which are absolutely certain. But such like certainty is not to be had
in contingent singulars, which are variable and uncertain. Therefore the
inquiry of counsel goes on indefinitely.

_On the contrary,_ "No one is moved to that which he cannot possibly reach"
(De Coelo i, 7). But it is impossible to pass through the infinite. If
therefore the inquiry of counsel is infinite, no one would begin to take
counsel. Which is clearly untrue.

_I answer that,_ The inquiry of counsel is actually finite on both
sides, on that of its principle and on that of its term. For a twofold
principle is available in the inquiry of counsel. One is proper
to it, and belongs to the very genus of things pertaining to
operation: this is the end which is not the matter of counsel, but
is taken for granted as its principle, as stated above (A. 2). The
other principle is taken from another genus, so to speak; thus in
demonstrative sciences one science postulates certain things from
another, without inquiring into them. Now these principles which
are taken for granted in the inquiry of counsel are any facts
received through the senses--for instance, that this is bread or
iron: and also any general statements known either through speculative
or through practical science; for instance, that adultery is forbidden
by God, or that man cannot live without suitable nourishment. Of
such things counsel makes no inquiry. But the term of inquiry is
that which we are able to do at once. For just as the end is
considered in the light of a principle, so the means are considered
in the light of a conclusion. Wherefore that which presents itself
as to be done first, holds the position of an ultimate conclusion
whereat the inquiry comes to an end. Nothing however prevents counsel
from being infinite potentially, for as much as an infinite number
of things may present themselves to be inquired into by means of
counsel.
Reply Obj. 1: Singulars are infinite; not actually, but only
potentially.
Reply Obj. 2: Although human action can be hindered, the hindrance
is not always at hand. Consequently it is not always necessary to
take counsel about removing the obstacle.
Reply Obj. 3: In contingent singulars, something may be taken for
certain, not simply, indeed, but for the time being, and as far as
it concerns the work to be done. Thus that Socrates is sitting is
not a necessary statement; but that he is sitting, as long as he
continues to sit, is necessary; and this can be taken for a certain
fact.
________________________ 
QUESTION 15
OF CONSENT, WHICH IS AN ACT OF THE WILL IN REGARD TO THE MEANS (In
Four Articles)
We must now consider consent; concerning which there are four points
of inquiry:
(1) Whether consent is an act of the appetitive or of the apprehensive
power?

(2) Whether it is to be found in irrational animals?--It
should seem from this and other instances that have occurred within the
last century, that we cannot expect from original genius alone, without
education, in modern and more artificial periods, the same bold and
independent results as in former periods.  And one reason appears to be,
that though such persons, from whom we might at first expect a
restoration of the good old times of poetry, are not encumbered and
enfeebled by the trammels of custom, and the dull weight of other men's
ideas; yet they are oppressed by the consciousness of a want of the
common advantages which others have; are looking at the tinsel finery of
the age, while they neglect the rich unexplored mine in their own
breasts; and instead of setting an example for the world to follow,
spend their lives in aping, or in the despair of aping, the hackneyed
accomplishments of their inferiors.  Another cause may be, that original
genius alone is not sufficient to produce the highest excellence,
without a corresponding state of manners, passions, and religious
belief: that no single mind can move in direct opposition to the vast
machine of the world around it; that the poet can do no more than stamp
the mind of his age upon his works; and that all that the ambition of
the highest genius can hope to arrive at, after the lapse of one or two
generations, is the perfection of that more refined and effeminate style
of studied elegance and adventitious ornament, which is the result, not
of nature, but of art.  In fact, no other style of poetry has succeeded,
or seems likely to succeed, in the present day.  The public taste hangs
like a millstone round the neck of all original genius that does not
conform to established and exclusive models.  The writer is not only
without popular sympathy, but without a rich and varied mass of
materials for his mind to work upon and assimilate unconsciously to
itself; his attempts at originality are looked upon as affectation, and
in the end, degenerate into it from the natural spirit of contradiction,
and the constant uneasy sense of disappointment and undeserved ridicule.
But to return.

Crabbe is, if not the most natural, the most literal of our descriptive
poets.  He exhibits the smallest circumstances of the smallest
things.  He gives the very costume of meanness; the nonessentials
of every trifling incident.  He is his own landscape-painter,
and engraver too.  His pastoral scenes seem pricked on paper
in little dotted lines.  He describes the interior of a cottage
like a person sent there to distrain for rent.  He has an eye to the
number of arms in an old worm-eaten chair, and takes care to inform
himself and the reader whether a joint-stool stands upon three legs or
upon four.  If a settle by the fire-side stands awry, it gives him as
much disturbance as a tottering world; and he records the rent in a
ragged counterpane as an event in history.  He is equally curious in his
back-grounds and in his figures.  You know the Christian and surnames of
every one of his heroes,--the dates of their achievements, whether on a
Sunday or a Monday,--their place of birth and burial, the colour of
their clothes, and of their hair, and whether they squinted or not.  He
takes an inventory of the human heart exactly in the same manner as of
the furniture of a sick room: his sentiments have very much the air of
fixtures; he gives you the petrifaction of a sigh, and carves a tear, to
the life, in stone.  Almost all his characters are tired of their lives,
and you heartily wish them dead.  They remind one of anatomical
preservations; or may be said to bear the same relation to actual life
that a stuffed cat in a glass-case does to the real one purring on the
hearth: the skin is the same, but the life and the sense of heat is
gone.  Crabbe's poetry is like a museum, or curiosity-shop: every thing
has the same posthumous appearance, the same inanimateness and identity
of character.  If Bloomfield is too much of the Farmer's Boy, Crabbe is
too much of the parish beadle, an overseer of the country poor.  He has
no delight beyond the walls of a workhouse, and his officious zeal would
convert the world into a vast infirmary.  He is a kind of Ordinary, not
of Newgate, but of nature.  His poetical morality is taken from Burn's
Justice, or the Statutes against Vagrants.  He sets his own imagination
in the stocks, and his Muse, like Malvolio, "wears cruel garters." He
collects all the petty vices of the human heart, and superintends, as in
a panopticon, a select circle of rural malefactors.  He makes out the
poor to be as bad as the rich--a sort of vermin for the others to hunt
down and trample upon, and this he thinks a good piece of work.  With him
there are but two moral categories, riches and poverty, authority and
dependence.  His parish apprentice, Richard Monday, and his wealthy
baronet, Sir Richard Monday, of Monday-place, are the same individual--
the extremes of the same character, and of his whole system.  "The latter
end of his Commonwealth does not forget the beginning." But his parish
ethics are the very worst model for a state: any thing more degrading
and helpless cannot well be imagined.  He exhibits just the contrary view
of human life to that which Gay has done in his Beggar's Opera.  In a
word, Crabbe is the only poet who has attempted and succeeded in the
_still life_ of tragedy: who gives the stagnation of hope and fear--
the deformity of vice without the temptation--the pain of sympathy
without the interest--and who seems to rely, for the delight he is to
convey to his reader, on the truth and accuracy with which he describes
only what is disagreeable.

The best descriptive poetry is not, after all, to be found in our
descriptive poets.  There are set descriptions of the flowers, for
instance, in Thomson, Cowper, and others; but none equal to those in
Milton's Lycidas, and in the Winter's Tale.

We have few good pastorals in the language.  Our manners are not
Arcadian; our climate is not an eternal spring; our age is not the age
of gold.  We have no pastoral-writers equal to Theocritus, nor any
landscapes like those of Claude Lorraine.  The best parts of Spenser's
Shepherd's Calendar are two fables, Mother Hubberd's Tale, and the Oak
and the Briar; which last is as splendid a piece of oratory as any to be
found in the records of the eloquence of the British senate! Browne, who
came after Spenser, and Withers, have left some pleasing allegorical
poems of this kind.  Pope's are as full of senseless finery and trite
affectation, as if a peer of the realm were to sit for his picture with
a crook and cocked hat on, smiling with an insipid air of no-meaning,
between nature and fashion.  Sir Philip Sidney's Arcadia is a lasting
monument of perverted power; where an image of extreme beauty, as that
of "the shepherd boy piping as though he should never be old," peeps out
once in a hundred folio pages, amidst heaps of intricate sophistry and
scholastic quaintness.  It is not at all like Nicholas Poussin's picture,
in which he represents some shepherds wandering out in a morning of the
spring, and coming to a tomb with this inscription--"I also was an
Arcadian!" Perhaps the best pastoral in the language is that prose-poem,
Walton's Complete Angler.  That well-known work has a beauty and romantic
interest equal to its simplicity, and arising out of it.  In the
description of a fishing-tackle, you perceive the piety and humanity of
the author's mind.  It is to be doubted whether Sannazarius's Piscatory
Eclogues are equal to the scenes described by Walton on the banks of the
river Lea.  He gives the feeling of the open air: we walk with him along
the dusty road-side, or repose on the banks of the river under a shady
tree; and in watching for the finny prey, imbibe what he beautifully
calls "the patience and simplicity of poor honest fishermen." We
accompany them to their inn at night, and partake of their simple, but
delicious fare; while Maud, the pretty milk-maid, at her mother's
desire, sings the classical ditties of the poet Marlow; "Come live with
me, and be my love." Good cheer is not neglected in this work, any more
than in Homer, or any other history that sets a proper value on the good
things of this life.  The prints in the Complete Angler give an
additional reality and interest to the scenes it describes.  While
Tottenham Cross shall stand, and longer, thy work, amiable and happy old
man, shall last!--It is in the notes to it that we find that character
of "a fair and happy milkmaid," by Sir Thomas Overbury, which may vie in
beauty and feeling with Chaucer's character of Griselda.

      "A fair and happy milk-maid is a country wench that is so far from
making herself beautiful by art, that one look of her's is able to put
all face-physic out of countenance.  She knows a fair look is but a dumb
orator to commend virtue, therefore minds it not.  All her excellences
stand in her so silently, as if they had stolen upon her without her
knowledge.  The lining of her apparel (which is herself) is far better
than outsides of tissue; for though she be not arrayed in the spoil of
the silkworm, she is decked in innocency, a far better wearing.  She doth
not, with lying long in bed, spoil both her complexion and conditions.
Nature hath taught her, too immoderate sleep is rust to the soul: she
rises therefore with chanticleer, her dame's cock, and at night makes
the lamb her curfew.  Her breath is her own, which scents all the year
long of June, like a new-made haycock.  She makes her hand hard with
labour, and her heart soft with pity; and when winter evenings fall
early (sitting at her merry wheel) she sings a defiance to the giddy
wheel of Fortune.  She doth all things with so sweet a grace, it seems
ignorance will not suffer her to do ill, being her mind is to do well.
She bestows her year's wages at next fair; and in choosing her garments,
counts no bravery in the world like decency.  The garden and bee-hive are
all her physic and chirurgery, and she lives the longer for't.  She dares
go alone, and unfold sheep in the night, and fears no manner of ill,
because she means none: yet, to say the truth, she is never alone, for
she is still accompanied with old songs, honest thoughts, and prayers,
but short ones; yet they have their efficacy, in that they are not
palled with ensuing idle cogitations.  Lastly, her dreams are so chaste,
that she dare tell them; only a Friday's dream is all her superstition;
that she conceals for fear of anger.  Thus lives she; and all her care is
she may die in the spring-time, to have store of flowers stuck upon her
winding-sheet."

The love of the country has been sung by poets, and echoed by
philosophers; but the first have not attempted, and the last have been
greatly puzzled to account for it.  I do not know that any one has ever
explained, satisfactorily, the true source of this feeling, or of that
soothing emotion which the sight of the country, or a lively description
of rural objects hardly ever fails to infuse into the mind.  Some have
ascribed this feeling to the natural beauty of the objects themselves;
others to the freedom from care, the silence and tranquillity which
scenes of retirement afford; others to the healthy and innocent
employments of a country life; others to the simplicity of country
manners, and others to a variety of different causes; but none to the
right one.  All these, indeed, have their effect; but there is another
principal one which has not been touched upon, or only slightly glanced
at.  I will not, however, imitate Mr. Horne Tooke, who after enumerating
seventeen different definitions of the verb, and laughing at them all as
deficient and nugatory, at the end of two quarto volumes does not tell
us what the verb really is, and has left posterity to pluck out "the
heart of his mystery." I will say at once what it is that distinguishes
this interest from others, and that is its _abstractedness_.  The
interest we feel in human nature is exclusive, and confined to the
individual; the interest we feel in external nature is common, and
transferable from one object to all others of the same class.  Thus.

Rousseau in his Confessions relates, that when he took possession of
his room at Annecy, he found that he could see "a little spot of green"
from his window, which endeared his situation the more to him, because,
he says, it was the first time he had had this object constantly before
him since he left Boissy, the place where he was at school when a child.
[7] Some such feeling as that here described will be found lurking at
the bottom of all our attachments of this sort.  Were it not for the
recollections habitually associated with them, natural objects could not
interest the mind in the manner they do.  No doubt, the sky is beautiful,
the clouds sail majestically along its bosom; the sun is cheering; there
is something exquisitely graceful in the manner in which a plant or tree
puts forth its branches; the motion with which they bend and tremble in
the evening breeze is soft and lovely; there is music in the babbling of
a brook; the view from the top of a mountain is full of grandeur; nor
can we behold the ocean with indifference.  Or, as the Minstrel sweetly
sings,

      "Oh, how canst thou renounce the boundless store
        Of charms which Nature to her votary yields!
      The warbling woodland, the resounding shore,
        The pomp of groves, and garniture of fields;
      All that the genial ray of morning gilds,
        And all that echoes to the song of even,
      All that the mountain's sheltering bosom shields,
        And all the dread magnificence of heaven,
      Oh, how canst thou renounce, and hope to be forgiven!"

___
[7] Pope also declares that he had a particular regard for an old post
which stood in the court-yard before the house where he was brought up.
___

It is not, however, the beautiful and magnificent alone that we
admire in Nature; the most insignificant and rudest objects are often
found connected with the strongest emotions; we become attached to the
most common and familiar images, as to the face of a friend whom we have
long known, and from whom we have received many benefits.  It is because
natural objects have been associated with the sports of our childhood,
with air and exercise, with our feelings in solitude, when the mind
takes the strongest hold of things, and clings with the fondest interest
to whatever strikes its attention; with change of place, the pursuit of
new scenes, and thoughts of distant friends; it is because they have
surrounded us in almost all situations, in joy and in sorrow, in
pleasure and in pain; because they have been one chief source and
nourishment of our feelings, and a part of our being, that we love them
as we do ourselves.

There is, generally speaking, the same foundation for our love of
Nature as for all our habitual attachments, namely, association of
ideas.  But this is not all.  That which distinguishes this attachment
from others is the transferable nature of our feelings with respect to
physical objects; the associations connected with any one object
extending to the whole class.  Our having been attached to any particular
person does not make us feel the same attachment to the next person we
may chance to meet; but, if we have once associated strong feelings of
delight with the objects of natural scenery, the tie becomes
indissoluble, and we shall ever after feel the same attachment to other
objects of the same sort.  I remember when I was abroad, the trees, and
grass, and wet leaves, rustling in the walks of the Thuilleries, seemed
to be as much English, to be as much the same trees and grass, that I
had always been used to, as the sun shining over my head was the same
sun which I saw in England; the faces only were foreign to me.  Whence
comes this difference? It arises from our always imperceptibly
connecting the idea of the individual with man, and only the idea of the
class with natural objects.  In the one case, the external appearance or
physical structure is the least thing to be attended to; in the other,
it is every thing.  The springs that move the human form, and make it
friendly or adverse to me, lie hid within it.  There is an infinity of
motives, passions, and ideas, contained in that narrow compass, of which
I know nothing, and in which I have no share.  Each individual is a world
to himself, governed by a thousand contradictory and wayward impulses.  I
can, therefore, make no inference from one individual to another; nor
can my habitual sentiments, with respect to any individual, extend
beyond himself to others.  A crowd of people presents a disjointed,
confused, and unsatisfactory appearance to the eye, because there is
nothing to connect the motley assemblage into one continuous or general
impression, unless when there is some common object of interest to fix
their attention, as in the case of a full pit at the play-house.  The
same principle will also account for that feeling of littleness,
vacuity, and perplexity, which a stranger feels on entering the streets
of a populous city.  Every individual he meets is a blow to his personal
identity.  Every new face is a teazing, unanswered riddle.  He feels the
same wearisome sensation in walking from Oxford Street to Temple Bar, as
a person would do who should be compelled to read through the first leaf
of all the volumes in a library.  But it is otherwise with respect to
nature.  A flock of sheep is not a contemptible, but a beautiful sight.
The greatest number and variety of physical objects do not puzzle the
will, or distract the attention, but are massed together under one
uniform and harmonious feeling.  The heart reposes in greater security on
the immensity of Nature's works, "expatiates freely there," and finds
elbow room and breathing space.  We are always at home with Nature.  There
is neither hypocrisy, caprice, nor mental reservation in her favours.
Our intercourse with her is not liable to accident or change, suspicion
or disappointment: she smiles on us still the same.  A rose is always
sweet, a lily is always beautiful: we do not hate the one, nor envy the
other.  If we have once enjoyed the cool shade of a tree, and been lulled
into a deep repose by the sound of a brook running at its foot, we are
sure that wherever we can find a shady stream, we can enjoy the same
pleasure again; so that when we imagine these objects, we can easily
form a mystic personification of the friendly power that inhabits them,
Dryad or Naiad, offering its cool fountain or its tempting shade.  Hence
the origin of the Grecian mythology.  All objects of the same kind being
the same, not only in their appearance, but in their practical uses, we
habitually confound them together under the same general idea; and
whatever fondness we may have conceived for one, is immediately placed
to the common account.  The most opposite kinds and remote trains of
feeling gradually go to enrich the same sentiment; and in our love of
nature, there is all the force of individual attachment, combined with
the most airy abstraction.  It is this circumstance which gives that
refinement, expansion, and wild interest, to feelings of this sort, when
strongly excited, which every one must have experienced who is a true
lover of nature.

It is the same setting sun that we see and remember year after year,
through summer and winter, seed-time and harvest.  The moon that shines
above our heads, or plays through the checquered shade, is the same moon
that we used to read of in Mrs. Radcliffe's romances.  We see no
difference in the trees first covered with leaves in the spring.  As there
were only two parties to the Paris conference, herself and the United
States, she declared that she could not see what business Russia
or Japan had in the matter at all.

The Paris award, if you remember (see page 976), had to do with
the right of the United States to prevent other ships from entering the
Bering Sea.

The United States has called the attention of Great Britain to the
fact that the Washington conference is in no way connected with the
Paris award.

      It has been repeatedly stated that its object
      is to be merely to discover whether the seal herds are decreasing,
and if so to decide upon a means of preserving them.

Any decision that shall be arrived at at the Washington conference is to
be binding on all nations interested in the sealing industry.

Great Britain will not listen to this. She takes the stand that by the
terms of the Paris award the code of laws governing the sealing fisheries
will have to be revised every five years anyhow, and as the first five
years will be up in 1898, she does not see the use of entering
into the matter now.

      She therefore positively declines
      to take part in the
      conference.
      
      Those who are in a position to know say
      that England has been forced into
      this position by Canada.
      

When Prof. D'Arcy Thompson returned from his trip to the seal islands
this year, he brought with him information that completely upset
his former statements and theories, and showed that the seals are
decreasing rapidly.

Canada became convinced that Russia, Japan, and the United States would
combine in an effort to have the seals carefully preserved, and
therefore she urged England to refuse to take part in the conference,
and thus give her time to consider what may be the best course for her to
take under the circumstances.

Experts who have been in London examining the year's take of seal-skins
are ready to state before the conference that eighty per cent of the
skins sold by the Canadian companies are those of the mother seals,
and that most of these animals have been shot.
This latter point is important, because it is in this way that the
seals are killed in the deep-sea or pelagic sealing, which the
United States is so anxious to put a stop to.
The conference will be held with or without England, but, feeling
that Russia and Japan may also have cause for offence if England
refuses to meet them, it is said that the State Department has
written once more to the British Government, urging it to send some
one to be present at the meetings.The cuckoo, "that wandering
voice," that comes and goes with the spring, mocks our ears with one
note from youth to age; and the lapwing, screaming round the traveller's
path, repeats for ever the same sad story of Tereus and Philomel!


LECTURE VI.
ON SWIFT, YOUNG, GRAY, COLLINS, &c.


I shall in the present Lecture go back to the age of Queen Anne, and
endeavour to give a cursory account of the most eminent of our poets, of
whom I have not already spoken, from that period to the present.

The three principal poets among the wits of Queen Anne's reign, next
to Pope, were Prior, Swift, and Gay.  Parnell, though a good-natured,
easy man, and a friend to poets and the Muses, was himself little more
than an occasional versifier; and Arbuthnot, who had as much wit as the
best of them, chose to shew it in prose, and not in verse.  He had a very
notable share in the immortal History of John Bull, and the inimitable
and praiseworthy Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus.  There has been a great
deal said and written about the plagiarisms of Sterne; but the only real
plagiarism he has been guilty of (if such theft were a crime), is in
taking Tristram Shandy's father from Martin's, the elder Scriblerus.  The
original idea of the character, that is, of the opinionated, captious
old gentleman, who is pedantic, not from profession, but choice, belongs
to Arbuthnot.--Arbuthnot's style is distinguished from that of his
contemporaries, even by a greater degree of terseness and conciseness.
He leaves out every superfluous word; is sparing of connecting
particles, and introductory phrases; uses always the simplest forms of
construction; and is more a master of the idiomatic peculiarities and
internal resources of the language than almost any other writer.  There
is a research in the choice of a plain, as well as of an ornamented or
learned style; and, in fact, a great deal more.  Among common English
words, there may be ten expressing the same thing with different degrees
of force and propriety, and only one of them the very word we want,
because it is the only one that answers exactly with the idea we have in
our minds.  Each word in familiar use has a different set of associations
and shades of meaning attached to it, and distinguished from each other
by inveterate custom; and it is in having the whole of these at our
command, and in knowing which to choose, as they are called for by the
occasion, that the perfection of a pure conversational prose-style
consists.  But in writing a florid and artificial style, neither the same
range of invention, nor the same quick sense of propriety--nothing but
learning is required.  If you know the words, and their general meaning,
it is sufficient: it is impossible you should know the nicer inflections
of signification, depending on an endless variety of application, in
expressions borrowed from a foreign or dead language.  They all impose
upon the ear alike, because they are not familiar to it; the only
distinction left is between the pompous and the plain; the
_sesquipedalia verba_ have this advantage, that they are all of one
length; and any words are equally fit for a learned style, so that we
have never heard them before.  Themistocles thought that the same
sounding epithets could not suit all subjects, as the same dress does
not fit all persons.  The style of our modern prose writers is very fine
in itself; but it wants variety of inflection and adaptation; it hinders
us from seeing the differences of the things it undertakes to describe.

What I have here insisted on will be found to be the leading
distinction between the style of Swift, Arbuthnot, Steele, and the other
writers of the age of Queen Anne, and the style of Dr. Johnson, which
succeeded to it.  The one is English, and the other is not.  The writers
first mentioned, in order to express their thoughts, looked about them
for the properest word to convey any idea, that the language which they
spoke, and which their countrymen understood, afforded: Dr. Johnson
takes the first English word that offers, and by translating it at a
venture into the first Greek or Latin word he can think of, only
retaining the English termination, produces an extraordinary effect upon
the reader, by much the same sort of mechanical process that Trim
converted the old jack-boots into a pair of new mortars.

Dr. Johnson was a lazy learned man, who liked to think and talk,
better than to read or write; who, however, wrote much and well, but too
often by rote.  His long compound Latin phrases required less thought,
and took up more room than others.  What shews the facilities afforded by
this style of imposing generalization, is, that it was instantly adopted
with success by all those who were writers by profession, or who were
not; and that at present, we cannot see a lottery puff or a quack
advertisement pasted against a wall, that is not perfectly Johnsonian in
style.  Formerly, the learned had the privilege of translating their
notions into Latin; and a great privilege it was, as it confined the
reputation and emoluments of learning to themselves.  Dr. Johnson may be
said to have naturalised this privilege, by inventing a sort of jargon
translated half-way out of one language into the other, which raised the
Doctor's reputation, and confounded all ranks in literature.

In the short period above alluded to, authors professed to write as
other men spoke; every body now affects to speak as authors write; and
any one who retains the use of his mother tongue, either in writing or
conversation, is looked upon as a very illiterate character.

Prior and Gay belong, in the characteristic excellences of their
style, to the same class of writers with Suckling, Rochester, and
Sedley: the former imbibed most of the licentious levity of the age of
Charles II. and carried it on beyond the Revolution under King William.
Prior has left no single work equal to Gay's Fables, or the Beggar's
Opera.  But in his lyrical and fugitive pieces he has shown even more
genius, more playfulness, more mischievous gaiety.  No one has exceeded
him in the laughing grace with which he glances at a subject that will
not bear examining, with which he gently hints at what cannot be
directly insisted on, with which he half conceals, and half draws aside
the veil from some of the Muses' nicest mysteries.  His Muse is, in fact,
a giddy wanton flirt, who spends her time in playing at snap-dragon and
blind-man's buff, who tells what she should not, and knows more than she
tells.  She laughs at the tricks she shews us, and blushes, or would be
thought to do so, at what she keeps concealed.  Prior has translated
several of Fontaine's Tales from the French; and they have lost nothing
in the translation, either of their wit or malice.  I need not name them:
but the one I like the most, is that of Cupid in search of Venus's
doves.  No one could insinuate a knavish plot, a tender point, a loose
moral, with such unconscious archness, and careless raillery, as if he
gained new self-possession and adroitness from the perplexity and
confusion into which he throws scrupulous imaginations, and knew how to
seize on all the ticklish parts of his subject, from their involuntarily
shrinking under his grasp.  They thought only of returning as soon as
might be to the Mediterranean.

King Edward went on to Ghent, after landing his fighting-men, and
sending his fleet to bring further forces from England.

      Henceforth for many a long year he
      might regard the Channel as a safe highway for men and supplies
for the war in France.

The victory of the English had cost them a relatively trifling loss.
The French losses are said to have been nearly 30,000 men. Strange
to say, among the English dead were four ladies who had embarked
on the King's ship to join the Queen's Court at Ghent. How they were
killed is not stated.
Probably they were courageous dames whose curiosity led them to watch the
fight from the tall poop of the flagship as they would have watched a
tournament from the galleries of the lists, and there the cross-bow bolts
of the Genoese found them.

There is an old story that men feared to tell King Philip the news of the
disaster, and the Court jester broke the tidings with a casual
remark that the French must be braver than the English, for they
jumped into the sea by scores, while the islanders stuck to their
ships.

The defeat at sea prepared the way for other defeats by land,
and in these campaigns there appeared a new weapon of war--rudely
fashioned cannon of short range and slow, inaccurate fire--the
precursors of heavier artillery that was to change the whole
character of naval warfare.

It was the coming of the cannon that inaugurated the modern period.
But before telling of battles in which artillery played the chief part,
we must tell of a decisive battle that was a link between old and new.
Lepanto--the battle that broke the Turkish power in the Mediterranean--saw,
like the sea-fights of later days, artillery in action, and at the
same time oar-driven galleys fighting with the tactics that had been
employed at Salamis and Actium, and knights in armour storming the enemy's
ships like Erik Jarl at Svold and King Edward at Sluys.

[Illustration: A GALLEY _From an engraving by J. P. le Bas_]
[Illustration: A CARRACK OR FRIGATE _From an engraving by Tomkins_
MEDITERRANEAN CRAFT OF THE 16TH CENTURY]

CHAPTER V
LEPANTO
1571

The Turk has long been known as the "sick man of Europe," and the story
of the Ottoman Empire for a hundred years has been a tale of gradual
dismemberment. Thus it is no easy matter for us to realize that for
centuries the Ottoman power was the terror of the civilized world.

It was in 1358 that the Ottomans seized Gallipoli, on the Dardanelles,
and thus obtained their first footing in Europe. They soon made themselves
masters of Philippopolis and Adrianople. A crusading army, gathered
to drive the Asiatic horde from Europe, was cut to pieces by the Sultan
Bajazet at Nicopolis in 1396. On the day after the battle ten thousand
Christian prisoners were massacred before the Sultan, the slaughter
going on from daybreak till late in the afternoon. The Turk had become
the terror of Europe.

Constantinople was taken by Mahomet II in 1453, and the Greek Empire
came to an inglorious end. Then for more than a century Austrians,
Hungarians, and Poles formed a barrier to the advance of the Asiatic
power into Central Europe.

But the Turks during this century became a maritime power. They had
conquered the Crimea and were masters of the Black Sea. They had overrun
Greece and most of the islands of the Archipelago. They had threatened
Venice with their fleets, and had for a while a foothold in Southern
Italy.
They took Rhodes from the Knights of St. John, annexed Syria and Egypt,
and the Sultan of Constantinople was acknowledged as the Khalifa of
Islam, the representative of the Prophet by the Mohammedan states of
North Africa--Tripoli, Tunis, and Morocco. In 1526 the victory of
Mohacs made the Turks masters of Hungary. They had driven a wedge deep
into Europe, and there was danger that their fleets would soon hold
the command of the Mediterranean.

These fleets were composed chiefly of large galleys--lineal descendants
(so to say) of the ancient triremes. There was a row of long oars on
either side, but sail power had so far developed that there were also
one, two, even three tall masts, each crossed by a long yard that carried
a triangular lateen sail. The base of the triangle lay along the yard,
and the apex was the lower corner of the triangular sail, which could be
hauled over to either side of the ship, one end of the yard being
hauled down on the other side. The sail thus lay at an angle with the line
of the keel, with one point of the yard high above the masthead, and by
carrying the sheet tackle of the point of the sail across the ship, and
reversing the position of the yard, the galley was put on one tack
or the other. Forward, pointing ahead, was a battery of two or
more guns, and there was sometimes a second but lighter battery astern,
to be used when the galley was escaping from a ship of superior force.
Turks, in the Eastern Mediterranean, Moors in the West, recruited their
crews of rowers by capturing Christian ships and raiding Christian villages,
to carry off captives who could be trained to the oar. This piracy,
plundering, and slave-hunting went on in the Mediterranean up to the
first years of the nineteenth century, when, after the Turks
themselves had long abandoned it, the sea rovers of the Barbary
States in the western waters of the inland sea still kept it up,
and European nations paid blackmail to the Beys of Tripoli, Tunis,
and Algiers to secure immunity for their ships and sailors.

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries no part of the Mediterranean
was free from the raids of the Moslem pirates. Such was the peril of the
sea that ships used to carry two sets of sails, one white for use by day,
the other black, in order to conceal their movements in the darkness.

        Thousands of Christian slaves were always
      wearing out their miserable lives in the
      galleys and prisons of the Mohammedan
      ports. Isolated expeditions were sometimes
      made by this or that Christian power
      for their deliverance. Two religious orders
      were founded to collect
      alms for their ransom, to minister
      to them in their captivity, and to negotiate
      for their deliverance. But all this
      was only a mitigation of the evil, and year
      after year there went on the enslavement
      of Europeans, men for the galleys,
      women for the harems.
      
      One would have thought that all
      Europe would have banded itself
      together to drive back the
      Turk from the Danube and sweep
      the corsairs from the Mediterranean.
      To their honour be it said that
      successive Popes endeavoured to arouse
      the old crusading spirit, and
      band civilized and Christian
      Europe together for an enterprise that was
      to the advantage of all, and the neglect of which was a lasting
disgrace.

But their efforts were long defeated by the mutual quarrels and jealousies
and the selfish policy of the European powers. Venice and Genoa long
preferred to maintain peace with the Sultans, in order to have the
undisturbed monopoly of the Eastern trade.

France was too often the ally of the Turk, thanks to her traditional
rivalry with the House of Austria, the rulers of the German Empire.
The pressure of Turkish armies on the Eastern frontiers of the Empire
made it impossible for the Emperors to use their full strength on the
Rhine or in North Italy.

Again and again Rome uttered the cry of alarm, and the warning passed
unheeded. But at last it was listened to, when a new outburst of
aggressive activity on the part of the Turks for a while roused the
maritime nations of the Mediterranean from their lethargy, and then
a glorious page was added to the story of naval warfare.

In the year 1566 Suleiman the Magnificent died. He had conquered at
Mohacs and besieged Vienna, enlarged the boundaries of the Ottoman
Empire on land, and made its fleets the terror of the Mediterranean;
but the year before he died his pashas had failed disastrously in their
attempt on Malta, and his successor, Selim II (whom Ottoman historians
surname "the Drunkard"), was reported to be a half-imbecile wretch,
devoid of either intelligence or enterprise. So Europe breathed more
freely. But while the "Drunkard" idled in his seraglio by the Golden Horn,
the old statesmen, generals, and admirals, whom Suleiman had formed, were
still living, and Europe had lulled itself with false hopes of
peace.

For the sake of their Eastern trade interests the Venetians had as far
as possible stood neutral in the wars between Turk and Christian, and
had long been in undisturbed possession of Cyprus. For eighty years they
had held it under a treaty that recognized certain rights of the Sultan
to the island as a dependency of Egypt. They had stood neutral while
Suleiman took Rhodes and besieged Malta, though on either occasion the
intervention of the Venetian fleet would have been a serious
blow to the Ottoman power. The Venetian Senate was therefore disagreeably
surprised when an envoy from Constantinople demanded the evacuation
of Cyprus, and announced that the Sultan intended to exercise his full
rights as sovereign of the island. The armaments of the Republic were
at a low ebb, but Doge and Senate rejected the Ottoman demand, and defied
the menace of war that accompanied it.

The neutrality of Venice had been the chief obstacle to the efforts of
Pius V to form a league of the maritime powers of Southern Europe against
the common enemy of Christendom. When, therefore, the Venetian
ambassadors applied to the Vatican for help, the Pope put the limited
resources of his own states at their disposal, and exerted his influence
to procure for them help from other countries. Pius saw the possibility
of at last forming a league against the Turk, and was statesman enough
to perceive that a more effective blow would be struck against them
by attacking them on the sea than by gathering a crusading army on the
Theiss and the Danube.

His own galleys were prepared for service under the orders of Prince
Colonna, and a subsidy was sent to Venice from the papal treasury
to aid in the equipment of the Venetian fleet. The papal envoys appealed
to the Genoese Republic, the Knights of Malta, and the Kings of France
and Spain to reinforce the fleets of Rome and Venice. But France and
Spain were more interested in their own local ambitions and jealousies,
and even Philip II gave at first very limited help. With endless difficulty
a fleet of galleys was at last assembled, Maltese, Genoese, Roman, Venetian,
united under the command of Colonna. By the time the Christian armament
was ready a larger Turkish fleet had appeared in the waters of Cyprus
and landed an army, which, under its protection, began the siege of
Nicosia. After long delays Colonna's fleet reached Suda Bay in Crete,
and joined a squadron of Venetian galleys kept for guardship duties in
Cretan waters.

Though Colonna was in nominal command, the fleet was really controlled
by a committee of the chiefs of its various squadrons. There were
endless councils of war, and it is a trite saying that "councils of war
do not fight." Prudent caution is oftener the outcome of such
debates than daring enterprises. There was a time, in the first days
of September, when, if the Suda fleet had gone boldly to the relief of
Nicosia, it might have raised the siege, for the Venetian
garrison was making such a vigorous defence that in order to press the
siege the Turkish pashas had stripped their fleet of thousands of
fighting-men to employ them in the trenches. But the golden opportunity
passed by, and when at last Colonna took his galleys across to the coast
of Asia Minor, Nicosia had fallen, and the Turks had begun the siege
of the other Cypriote fortress, Famagusta.

Again there were divided counsels and pitiful irresolution. The commanders
of the various contingents were brave men, veterans of the Mediterranean
wars. But the coalition lacked one determined leader who could
dominate the rest, decide upon a definite plan of action, and put
it into energetic execution.

Time was wasted till the bad weather began. Then the various
squadrons made their way to the ports where they were to pass the winter.
A squadron of the Venetians remained in the Cretan ports. The rest dispersed
to the harbours of Italy and the Ionian islands.

The aged pontiff heard with bitter disappointment that nothing had been
accomplished. The news might well have made even a younger man
lose heart.
But with undaunted courage he devoted himself to forming a more powerful
combination for the great effort of the coming summer.

It was all-important to secure the alliance of the King of Spain, who
was also ruler of Naples and Sicily. But it was only after long negotiations
and smoothing away of endless jealousies between Spain and
Venice, that at last the treaty of the "Holy League" was signed by the
Republic of Venice, the King of Spain, and the Pope, Pius V undertaking
to bring in help from the minor Princes and Republics of Italy and the
Knights of Malta.

It was proposed that there should be a fleet of three hundred ships, of
which two hundred were to be galleys and a hundred _navi_, that is
full-rigged sailing-ships. It was the first time that the sailing-ship
had been given so important a place in naval projects in the Mediterranean,
and this shows the change that was rapidly coming into naval methods.
The allies were jointly to raise a force of 50,000 fighting-men, including
500 gunners.

Once the treaty was arranged preparations were pushed forward, but again
there were wearisome delays. It was easy enough to build galleys. The
arsenal of Venice had once laid a keel at sunrise and launched the
galley before sunset. But to recruit the thousands of oarsmen was a
longer business. It was not till well into the summer of 1571 that
the armada of the Holy League began to assemble at the appointed
rendezvous, Messina.
Meanwhile, the Turks were pressing the siege of Famagusta, blockading
it by land and sea, and sapping slowly up to its walls. The heroic
commandant of the place, Antonio Bragadino, a worthy son of Venice,
made an active defence, retarding by frequent sorties the progress
of the enemy's siege works.
By the month of June the Turks had lost nearly 30,000 men, including
those who fell victims to the fever that raged in their camps.
Bragadino's garrison had been thinned by the enemy's fire, by
sickness, and by semi-starvation, and at the same time the magazines
of ammunition were nearly empty. Behind the yawning breaches of the
rampart an inner line of improvised defences had been erected, and
the citadel was still intact. If he had had a little more flour and
gunpowder, Bragadino would have held out as stubbornly as ever. But
with starving men, empty magazines, and no sign of relief, he had
to accept the inevitable. He sent a flag of truce to Mustapha Pasha,
the Ottoman general, and relying on the impression made by his
stubborn defence, asked for generous terms.
Mustapha professed a chivalrous admiration for the heroism of the
Venetians. It was agreed that the garrison should march out with
the honours of war, and be transported under a flag of truce to
Crete and there set at liberty. The Ottoman general pledged himself
to protect the people of Famagusta, and secure for them the free
exercise of their religion.
The war-worn soldiers marched out. Bragadino, with the Venetian
nobles, were received at Mustapha's tent with every mark of honour.
But no sooner had the officers been separated from their men, and
these divided into small parties, than all were made prisoners,
bound, and robbed of all their personal property. The Turks had
often shown remorseless cruelty after victory, but they generally
observed the terms of a capitulation honourably.His occasional disposition to trifling (already noticed) was
a relaxation from the excessive earnestness of his mind.  _Indignatio
facit versus_.  His better genius was his spleen.  It was the biting
acrimony of his temper that sharpened his other faculties.  The truth of
his perceptions produced the pointed coruscations of his wit; his
playful irony was the result of inward bitterness of thought; his
imagination was the product of the literal, dry, incorrigible
tenaciousness of his understanding.  He endeavoured to escape from the
persecution of realities into the regions of fancy, and invented his
Lilliputians and Brobdingnagians, Yahoos, and Houynhyms, as a diversion
to the more painful knowledge of the world around him: _they_ only made
him laugh, while men and women made him angry.  His feverish impatience
made him view the infirmities of that great baby the world, with the
same scrutinizing glance and jealous irritability that a parent regards
the failings of its offspring; but, as Rousseau has well observed,
parents have not on this account been supposed to have more affection
for other people's children than their own.  In other respects, and
except from the sparkling effervescence of his gall, Swift's brain was
as "dry as the remainder biscuit after a voyage." He hated absurdity--
Rabelais loved it, exaggerated it with supreme satisfaction, luxuriated
in its endless varieties, rioted in nonsense, "reigned there and
revelled." He dwelt on the absurd and ludicrous for the pleasure they
gave him, not for the pain.  He lived upon laughter, and died laughing.
He indulged his vein, and took his full swing of folly.  He did not baulk
his fancy or his readers.  His wit was to him "as riches fineless"; he
saw no end of his wealth in that way, and set no limits to his
extravagance: he was communicative, prodigal, boundless, and
inexhaustible.  His were the Saturnalia of wit, the riches and the
royalty, the health and long life.  He is intoxicated with gaiety, mad
with folly.  His animal spirits drown him in a flood of mirth: his blood
courses up and down his veins like wine.  His thirst of enjoyment is as
great as his thirst of drink: his appetite for good things of all sorts
is unsatisfied, and there is a never-ending supply.  _Discourse is dry_;
so they moisten their words in their cups, and relish their dry jests
with plenty of Botargos and dried neats' tongues.  It is like Camacho's
wedding in Don Quixote, where Sancho ladled out whole pullets and fat geese
from the soup-kettles at a pull.  The flagons are setting a running,
their tongues wag at the same time, and their mirth flows as a river.
How Friar John roars and lays about him in the vineyard! How Panurge
whines in the storm, and how dexterously he contrives to throw the
sheep overboard! How much Pantagruel behaves like a wise king! How
Gargantua mewls, and pules [sic], and slabbers his nurse, and demeans
himself most like a royal infant! what provinces he devours! what seas
he drinks up! How he eats, drinks, and sleeps--sleeps, eats, and
drinks! The style of Rabelais is no less prodigious than his matter.  His
words are of marrow, unctuous, dropping fatness.  He was a mad wag, the
king of good fellows, and prince of practical philosophers!

Rabelais was a Frenchman of the old school--Voltaire of the new.
The wit of the one arose from an exuberance of enjoyment--of the
other, from an excess of indifference, real or assumed.  Voltaire had no
enthusiasm for one thing or another: he made light of every thing.  In
his hands all things turn to chaff and dross, as the pieces of silver
money in the Arabian Nights were changed by the hands of the enchanter
into little dry crumbling leaves! He is a Parisian.  He never
exaggerates, is never violent: he treats things with the most provoking
_sang froid_; and expresses his contempt by the most indirect hints, and
in the fewest words, as if he hardly thought them worth even his
contempt.  He retains complete possession of himself and of his subject.
He does not effect his purpose by the eagerness of his blows, but by the
delicacy of his tact.  The poisoned wound he inflicted was so fine, as
scarcely to be felt till it rankled and festered in its "mortal
consequences." His callousness was an excellent foil for the antagonists
he had mostly to deal with.  He took knaves and fools on his shield well.
He stole away its cloak from grave imposture.  If he reduced other things
below their true value, making them seem worthless and hollow, he did
not degrade the pretensions of tyranny and superstition below their true
value, by making them seem utterly worthless and hollow, as contemptible
as they were odious.  This was the service he rendered to truth and
mankind! His _Candide_ is a masterpiece of wit.  It has been called "the
dull product of a scoffer's pen"; it is indeed the "product of a
scoffer's pen"; but after reading the Excursion, few people will think
it _dull_.  It is in the most perfect keeping, and without any appearance
of effort.  Every sentence tells, and the whole reads like one sentence.
There is something sublime in Martin's sceptical indifference to moral
good and evil.  It is the repose of the grave.  It is better to suffer
this living death, than a living martyrdom.  "Nothing can touch him
further." The moral of Candide (such as it is) is the same as that of
Rasselas: the execution is different.  Voltaire says, "A great book is a
great evil." Dr. Johnson would have laboured this short apophthegm into
a voluminous common-place.  Voltaire's traveller (in another work) being
asked "whether he likes black or white mutton best," replies that "he is
indifferent, provided it is tender." Dr. Johnson did not get at a
conclusion by so short a way as this.  If Voltaire's licentiousness is
objected to me, I say, let it be placed to its true account, the manners
of the age and court in which he lived.  The lords and ladies of the
bedchamber in the reign of Louis XV. found no fault with the immoral
tendency of his writings.  Why then should our modern _purists_ quarrel
with them?--But to return.

Young is a gloomy epigrammatist.  He has abused great powers both of
thought and language.  His moral reflections are sometimes excellent; but
he spoils their beauty by overloading them with a religious horror, and
at the same time giving them all the smart turns and quaint expression
of an enigma or repartee in verse.  The well-known lines on
Procrastination are in his best manner:

        "Be wise to-day; 'tis madness to defer;
      Next day the fatal precedent will plead;
      Thus on, till wisdom is push'd out of life.
      Procrastination is the thief of time;
      Year after year it steals, till all are fled,
      And to the mercies of a moment leaves
      The vast concerns of an eternal scene.

        Of man's miraculous mistakes, this bears
      The palm, "That all men are about to live,"
      For ever on the brink of being born.
      All pay themselves the compliment to think
      They, one day, shall not drivel; and their pride
      On this reversion takes up ready praise;
      At least, their own; their future selves applauds;
      How excellent that life they ne'er will lead!
      Time lodg'd in their own hands is Folly's vails:
      That lodg'd in Fate's, to Wisdom they consign;
      The thing they can't but purpose, they postpone.
      'Tis not in Folly, not to scorn a fool;
      And scarce in human Wisdom to do more.
      All Promise is poor dilatory man,
      And that through every stage.  When young, indeed,
      In full content we, sometimes, nobly rest,
      Un-anxious for ourselves; and only wish,
      As duteous sons, our fathers were more wise.
      At thirty man suspects himself a fool;
      Knows it at forty, and reforms his plan;
      At fifty chides his infamous delay,
      Pushes his prudent purpose to Resolve;
      In all the magnanimity of thought
      Resolves, and re-resolves; then dies the same.

        And why?  Because he thinks himself immortal.
      All men think all men mortal, but themselves;
      Themselves, when some alarming shock of fate
      Strikes through their wounded hearts the sudden dread;
      But their hearts wounded, like the wounded air,
      Soon close; where past the shaft, no trace is found.
      As from the wing no scar the sky retains;
      The parted wave no furrow from the keel;
      So dies in human hearts the thought of death.
      Ev'n with the tender tear which nature sheds
      O'er those we love, we drop it in their grave."

His Universal Passion is a keen and powerful satire; but the effort
takes from the effect, and oppresses attention by perpetual and violent
demands upon it.  His tragedy of the Revenge is monkish and scholastic.
Zanga is a vulgar caricature of Iago.  The finest lines in it are the
burst of triumph at the end, when his revenge is completed:

      "Let Europe and her pallid sons go weep,
      Let Afric on her hundred thrones rejoice," &c.

Collins is a writer of a very different stamp, who had perhaps less
general power of mind than Young; but he had that true _vivida vis_,
that genuine inspiration, which alone can give birth to the highest
efforts of poetry.  He leaves stings in the minds of his readers, certain
traces of thought and feelings which never wear out, because nature had
left them in his own mind.  He is the only one of the minor poets of
whom, if he had lived, it cannot be said that he might not have done the
greatest things.  The germ is there.  He is sometimes affected, unmeaning,
and obscure; but he also catches rich glimpses of the bowers of
Paradise, and has lofty aspirations after the highest seats of the
Muses.  With a great deal of tinsel and splendid patch-work, he has not
been able to hide the solid sterling ore of genius.  In his best works
there is an attic simplicity, a pathos, and fervour of imagination,
which make us the more lament that the efforts of his mind were at first
depressed by neglect and pecuniary embarrassment, and at length buried
in the gloom of an unconquerable and fatal malady.  How many poets have
gone through all the horrors of poverty and contempt, and ended their
days in moping melancholy or moody madness!

      "We poets in our youth begin in gladness,
      But thereof comes in the end despondency and madness."

Is this the fault of themselves, of nature in tempering them of too fine
a clay, or of the world, that spurner of living, and patron of dead
merit? Read the account of Collins--with hopes frustrated, with
faculties blighted, at last, when it was too late for himself or others,
receiving the deceitful favours of relenting Fortune, which served only
to throw their sunshine on his decay, and to light him to an early
grave.  He was found sitting with every spark of imagination
extinguished, and with only the faint traces of memory and reason left
--with only one book in his room, the Bible; "but that," he said, "was
the best." A melancholy damp hung like an unwholesome mildew upon his
faculties--a canker had consumed the flower of his life.  He produced
works of genius, and the public regarded them with scorn: he aimed at
excellence that should be his own, and his friends treated his efforts
as the wanderings of fatuity.  The proofs of his capacity are, his Ode on
Evening, his Ode on the Passions (particularly the fine personification
of Hope), his Ode to Fear, the Dirge in Cymbeline, the Lines on
Thomson's Grave, and his Eclogues, parts of which are admirable.  But
perhaps his Ode on the Poetical Character is the best of all.  A rich
distilled perfume emanates from it like the breath of genius; a golden
cloud envelopes it; a honeyed paste of poetic diction encrusts it, like
the candied coat of the auricula.  His Ode to Evening shews equal genius
in the images and versification.  The sounds steal slowly over the ear,
like the gradual coming on of evening itself:

      "If aught of oaten stop or pastoral song
      May hope, chaste Eve, to soothe thy modest ear,
          Like thy own solemn springs,
          Thy springs and dying gales,

      O nymph reserv'd, while now the bright-haired sun
      Sits on yon western tent, whose cloudy skirts
          With brede ethereal wove,
          O'erhang his wavy bed:

      Now air is hush'd, save where the weak-ey'd bat,
      With short shrill shriek flits by on leathern wing,
          Or where the beetle winds
          His small but sullen horn,

      As oft he rises midst the twilight path,
      Against the pilgrim borne in heedless hum.
          Now teach me, maid compos'd,
          To breathe some soften'd strain,

      Whose numbers stealing through thy darkling vale
      May not unseemly with its stillness suit,
          As musing slow, I hail
          Thy genial, lov'd return!

      For when thy folding star arising shews
      His paly circlet, at his warning lamp
          The fragrant Hours and Elves
          Who slept in flow'rs the day,

      And many a nymph who wreathes her brows with sedge,
      And sheds the fresh'ning dew, and lovelier still,
          The pensive Pleasures sweet
          Prepare thy shadowy car;

      Then lead, calm Votress, where some sheety lake
      Cheers the lone heath, or some time-hallow'd pile,
          Or upland fallows grey
          Reflect its last cool gleam.

      But when chill blust'ring winds, or driving rain,
      Forbid my willing feet, be mine the hut,
          That from the mountain's side
          Views wilds and swelling floods,

      And hamlets brown, and dim discover'd spires,
      And hears their simple bell, and marks o'er all
          Thy dewy fingers draw
          The gradual dusky veil.

      While Spring shall pour his show'rs, as oft he wont,
      And bathe thy breathing tresses, meekest Eve!
          While Summer loves to sport
          Beneath thy lingering light;

      While sallow Autumn fills thy lap with leaves;
      Or Winter yelling through the troublous air,
          Affrights thy shrinking train,
          And rudely rends thy robes;

      So long, sure-found beneath the sylvan shed,
      Shall Fancy, Friendship, Science, rose-lipp'd Health,
          Thy gentlest influence own,
          And hymn thy favourite name."

Hammond, whose poems are bound up with Collins's, in Bell's pocket
edition, was a young gentleman, who appears to have fallen in love about
the year 1740, and who translated Tibullus into English verse, to let
his mistress and the public know of it.

I should conceive that Collins had a much greater poetical genius
than Gray: he had more of that fine madness which is inseparable from
it, of its turbid effervescence, of all that pushes it to the verge of
agony or rapture.  Gray's Pindaric Odes are, I believe, generally given
up at present: they are stately and pedantic, a kind of methodical
borrowed phrenzy.  But I cannot so easily give up, nor will the world be
in any haste to part with his Elegy in a Country Church-yard: it is one
of the most classical productions that ever was penned by a refined and
thoughtful mind, moralising on human life.  Mr. Coleridge (in his
Literary Life) says, that his friend Mr. Wordsworth had undertaken to
shew that the language of the Elegy is unintelligible: it has, however,
been understood! The Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College is more
mechanical and common-place; but it touches on certain strings about the
heart, that vibrate in unison with it to our latest breath.  No one ever
passes by Windsor's "stately heights," or sees the distant spires of
Eton College below, without thinking of Gray.  He deserves that we should
think of him; for he thought of others, and turned a trembling,
ever-watchful ear to "the still sad music of humanity."--His Letters
are inimitably fine.  If his poems are sometimes finical and pedantic,
his prose is quite free from affectation.  He pours his thoughts out upon
paper as they arise in his mind; and they arise in his mind without
pretence, or constraint, from the pure impulse of learned leisure and
contemplative indolence.  He is not here on stilts or in buckram; but
smiles in his easy chair, as he moralises through the loopholes of
retreat, on the bustle and raree-show of the world, or on "those
reverend bedlams, colleges and schools!" He had nothing to do but to
read and to think, and to tell his friends what he read and thought.  His
life was a luxurious, thoughtful dream.  "Be mine," he says in one of his
Letters, "to read eternal new romances of Marivaux and Crebillon." And
in another, to shew his contempt for action and the turmoils of
ambition, he says to someone, "Don't you remember Lords ------ and ------,
who are now great statesmen, little dirty boys playing at cricket? For
my part, I do not feel a bit wiser, or bigger, or older than I did
then." What an equivalent for not being wise or great, to be always
young! What a happiness never to lose or gain any thing in the game of
human life, by being never any thing more than a looker-on!

How different from Shenstone, who only wanted to be looked at: who
withdrew from the world to be followed by the crowd, and courted
popularity by affecting privacy! His Letters shew him to have lived in a
continual fever of petty vanity, and to have been a finished literary
coquet.  He seems always to say, "You will find nothing in the world so
amiable as Nature and me: come, and admire us." His poems are
indifferent and tasteless, except his Pastoral Ballad, his Lines on
Jemmy Dawson, and his School-mistress, which last is a perfect piece of
writing.

Akenside had in him the materials of poetry, but he was hardly a
great poet.  He improved his Pleasures of the Imagination in the
subsequent editions, by pruning away a great many redundances of style
and ornament.  Armstrong is better, though he has not chosen a very
exhilarating subject--The Art of Preserving Health.  Churchill's
Satires on the Scotch, and Characters of the Players, are as good as the
subjects deserved--they are strong, coarse, and full of an air of
hardened assurance.  I ought not to pass over without mention Green's
Poem on the Spleen, or Dyer's Grongar Hill.

The principal name of the period we are now come to is that of
Goldsmith, than which few names stand higher or fairer in the annals of
modern literature.  One should have his own pen to describe him as he
ought to be described--amiable, various, and bland, with careless
inimitable grace touching on every kind of excellence--with manners
unstudied, but a gentle heart--performing miracles of skill from pure
happiness of nature, and whose greatest fault was ignorance of his own
worth.  As a poet, he is the most flowing and elegant of our versifiers
since Pope, with traits of artless nature which Pope had not, and with a
peculiar felicity in his turns upon words, which he constantly repeated
with delightful effect: such as--

        "------His lot, though small,
      He sees that little lot, the lot of all."

      *   *   *   *   *

      "And turn'd and look'd, and turn'd to look again."

As a novelist, his Vicar of Wakefield has charmed all Europe.  What
reader is there in the civilised world, who is not the better for the
story of the washes which the worthy Dr. Primrose demolished so
deliberately with the poker--for the knowledge of the guinea which the
Miss Primroses kept unchanged in their pockets--the adventure of the
picture of the Vicar's family, which could not be got into the house--
and that of the Flamborough family, all painted with oranges in their
hands--or for the story of the case of shagreen spectacles and the
cosmogony?

As a comic writer, his Tony Lumpkin draws forth new powers from Mr.
Liston's face.  That alone is praise enough for it.  Poor Goldsmith! how
happy he has made others! how unhappy he was in himself! He never had
the pleasure of reading his own works! He had only the satisfaction of
good-naturedly relieving the necessities of others, and the consolation
of being harassed to death with his own! He is the most amusing and
interesting person, in one of the most amusing and interesting books in
the world, Boswell's Life of Johnson.  His peach-coloured coat shall
always bloom in Boswell's writings, and his fame survive in his own!--
His genius was a mixture of originality and imitation: he could do
nothing without some model before him, and he could copy nothing that he
did not adorn with the graces of his own mind.  Almost all the latter
part of the Vicar of Wakefield, and a great deal of the former, is taken
from Joseph Andrews; but the circumstances I have mentioned above are
not.

The finest things he has left behind him in verse are his character
of a country school-master, and that prophetic description of Burke in
the Retaliation.  His moral Essays in the Citizen of the World, are as
agreeable chit-chat as can be conveyed in the form of didactic
discourses.

Warton was a poet and a scholar, studious with ease, learned without
affectation.  He had a happiness which some have been prouder of than he,
who deserved it less--he was poet-laureat.

      "And that green wreath which decks the bard when dead,
      That laurel garland crown'd his living head."

But he bore his honours meekly, and performed his half-yearly task
regularly.  I should not have mentioned him for this distinction alone
(the highest which a poet can receive from the state), but for another
circumstance; I mean his being the author of some of the finest sonnets
in the language--at least so they appear to me; and as this species of
composition has the necessary advantage of being short (though it is
also sometimes both "tedious and brief"), I will here repeat two or
three of them, as treating pleasing subjects in a pleasing and
philosophical way.

      _Written in a blank leaf of Dugdale's Monasticon_

      "Deem not, devoid of elegance, the sage,
      By Fancy's genuine feelings unbeguil'd,
      Of painful pedantry the poring child;
      Who turns of these proud domes the historic page,
      Now sunk by Time, and Henry's fiercer rage.
      Think'st thou the warbling Muses never smil'd
      On his lone hours?  Ingenuous views engage
      His thoughts, on themes unclassic falsely styl'd,
      Intent.  While cloister'd piety displays
      Her mouldering roll, the piercing eye explores
      New manners, and the pomp of elder days,
      Whence culls the pensive bard his pictur'd stores.
      Not rough nor barren are the winding ways
      Of hoar Antiquity, but strewn with flowers."

      _Sonnet.  Written at Stonehenge._

      "Thou noblest monument of Albion's isle,
      Whether, by Merlin's aid, from Scythia's shore
      To Amber's fatal plain Pendragon bore,
      Huge frame of giant hands, the mighty pile,
      T'entomb his Britons slain by Hengist's guile:
      Or Druid priests, sprinkled with human gore,
      Taught mid thy massy maze their mystic lore:
      Or Danish chiefs, enrich'd with savage spoil,
      To victory's idol vast, an unhewn shrine,
      Rear'd the rude heap, or in thy hallow'd ground
      Repose the kings of Brutus' genuine line;
      Or here those kings in solemn state were crown'd;
      Studious to trace thy wondrous origin,
      We muse on many an ancient tale renown'd."

Nothing can be more admirable than the learning here displayed, or the
inference from it, that it is of no use but as it leads to interesting
thought and reflection.

That written after seeing Wilton House is in the same style, but I
prefer concluding with that to the river Lodon, which has a personal as
well as poetical interest about it.

      "Ah! what a weary race my feet have run,
      Since first I trod thy banks with alders crown'd,
      And thought my way was all through fairy ground,
      Beneath the azure sky and golden sun:
      When first my Muse to lisp her notes begun!
      While pensive memory traces back the round
      Which fills the varied interval between;
      Much pleasure, more of sorrow, marks the scene.--
      Sweet native stream! those skies and suns so pure
      No more return, to cheer my evening road!
      Yet still one joy remains, that not obscure
      Nor useless, all my vacant days have flow'd
      From youth's gay dawn to manhood's prime mature,
      Nor with the Muse's laurel unbestow'd."

I have thus gone through all the names of this period I could think
of, but I find that there are others still waiting behind that I had
never thought of.  Here is a list of some of them--Pattison, Tickell,
Hill, Somerville, Browne, Pitt, Wilkie, Dodsley, Shaw, Smart, Langhorne,
Bruce, Greame, Glover, Lovibond, Penrose, Mickle, Jago, Scott,
Whitehead, Jenyns, Logan, Cotton, Cunningham, and Blacklock.--I think
it will be best to let them pass and say nothing about them.  It will be
hard to persuade so many respectable persons that they are dull writers,
and if we give them any praise, they will send others.

But here comes one whose claims cannot be so easily set aside: they
have been sanctioned by learning, hailed by genius, and hallowed by
misfortune--I mean Chatterton.  Yet I must say what I think of him, and
that is not what is generally thought.  I pass over the disputes between
the learned antiquaries, Dr. Mills, Herbert Croft, and Dr. Knox, whether
he was to be placed after Shakspeare and Dryden, or to come after
Shakspeare alone.  A living poet has borne a better testimony to him--

      "I thought of Chatterton, the marvellous boy,
         The sleepless soul that perished in his pride;
      And him [8] who walked in glory and in joy
         Beside his plough along the mountain side."

I am loth to put asunder whom so great an authority has joined together;
but I cannot find in Chatterton's works any thing so extraordinary as
the age at which they were written.  They have a facility, vigour, and
knowledge, which were prodigious in a boy of sixteen, but which would
not have been so in a man of twenty.  He did not shew extraordinary
powers of genius, but extraordinary precocity.  Nor do I believe he would
have written better, had he lived.  He knew this himself, or he would
have lived.  Great geniuses, like great kings, have too much to think of
to kill themselves; for their mind to them also "a kingdom is." With an
unaccountable power coming over him at an unusual age, and with the
youthful confidence it inspired, he performed wonders, and was willing
to set a seal on his reputation by a tragic catastrophe.  He had done his
best; and, like another Empedocles, threw himself into AEtna, to ensure
immortality.  The brazen slippers alone remain!--

___
[8] Burns.--These lines are taken from the introduction to Mr.
Wordsworth's poem of the LEECH-GATHERER.
___


LECTURE VII.
ON BURNS, AND THE OLD ENGLISH BALLADS.


I am sorry that what I said in the conclusion of the last Lecture
respecting Chatterton, should have given dissatisfaction to some
persons, with whom I would willingly agree on all such matters.  What I
meant was less to call in question Chatterton's genius, than to object
to the common mode of estimating its magnitude by its prematureness.  The
lists of fame are not filled with the dates of births or deaths; and the
side-mark of the age at which they were done, wears out in works
destined for immortality.  Had Chatterton really done more, we should
have thought less of him, for our attention would then have been fixed
on the excellence of the works themselves, instead of the singularity of
the circumstances in which they were produced.  But because he attained
to the full powers of manhood at an early age, I do not see that he
would have attained to more than those powers, had he lived to be a man.
He was a prodigy, because in him the ordinary march of nature was
violently precipitated; and it is therefore inferred, that he would have
continued to hold on his course, "unslacked of motion." On the contrary,
who knows but he might have lived to be poet-laureat? It is much better
to let him remain as he was.  Of his actual productions, any one may
think as highly as he pleases; I would only guard against adding to the
account of his _quantum meruit_, those possible productions by which the
learned rhapsodists of his time raised his gigantic pretensions to an
equality with those of Homer and Shakspeare.  It is amusing to read some
of these exaggerated descriptions, each rising above the other in
extravagance.  In Anderson's Life, we find that Mr. Warton speaks of him
"as a prodigy of genius," as "a singular instance of prematurity of
abilities": that may be true enough, and Warton was at any rate a
competent judge; but Mr. Malone "believes him to have been the greatest
genius that England has produced since the days of Shakspeare." Dr.
Gregory says, "he must rank, as a universal genius, above Dryden, and
perhaps only second to Shakspeare." Mr. Herbert Croft is still more
unqualified in his praises; he asserts, that "no such being, at any
period of life, has ever been known, or possibly ever will be known." He
runs a parallel between Chatterton and Milton; and asserts, that "an
army of Macedonian and Swedish mad butchers fly before him," meaning, I
suppose, that Alexander the Great and Charles the Twelfth were nothing
to him; "nor," he adds, "does my memory supply me with any human being,
who at such an age, with such advantages, has produced such
compositions.  Under the heathen mythology, superstition and admiration
would have explained all, by bringing Apollo on earth; nor would the God
ever have descended with more credit to himself."--Chatterton's
physiognomy would at least have enabled him to pass _incognito_.  It is
quite different from the look of timid wonder and delight with which
Annibal Caracci has painted a young Apollo listening to the first sounds
he draws from a Pan's pipe, under the tutelage of the old Silenus! If
Mr. Croft is sublime on the occasion, Dr. Knox is no less pathetic.  "The
testimony of Dr. Knox," says Dr. Anderson, (Essays, p. 144.), "does equal
credit to the classical taste and amiable benevolence of the writer, and
the genius and reputation of Chatterton."  "When I read," says the
Doctor, "the researches of those learned antiquaries who have
endeavoured to prove that the poems attributed to Rowley were really
written by him, I observe many ingenious remarks in confirmation of
their opinion, which it would be tedious, if not difficult, to
controvert."

Now this is so far from the mark, that the whole controversy might
have been settled by any one but the learned antiquaries themselves, who
had the smallest share of their learning, from this single circumstance,
that the poems read as smooth as any modern poems, if you read them as
modern compositions; and that you cannot read them, or make verse of
them at all, if you pronounce or accent the words as they were spoken at
the time when the poems were pretended to have been written.  The whole
secret of the imposture, which nothing but a deal of learned dust,
raised by collecting and removing a great deal of learned rubbish, could
have prevented our laborious critics from seeing through, lies on the
face of it (to say nothing of the burlesque air which is scarcely
disguised throughout) in the repetition of a few obsolete words, and in
the mis-spelling of common ones.

"No sooner," proceeds the Doctor, "do I turn to the poems, than the
labour of the antiquaries appears only waste of time; and I am
involuntarily forced to join in placing that laurel, which he seems so
well to have deserved, on the brow of Chatterton.  The poems bear so many
marks of superior genius, that they have deservedly excited the general
attention of polite scholars, and are considered as the most remarkable
productions in modern poetry.  We have many instances of poetical
eminence at an early age; but neither Cowley, Milton, nor Pope, ever
produced any thing while they were boys, which can justly be compared to
the poems of Chatterton.  The learned antiquaries do not indeed dispute
their excellence.  They extol it in the highest terms of applause.  They
raise their favourite Rowley to a rivalry with Homer: but they make the
very merits of the works an argument against their real author.  Is it
possible, say they, that a boy should produce compositions so beautiful
and masterly? That a common boy should produce them is not possible,"
rejoins the Doctor; "but that they should be produced by a boy of an
extraordinary genius, such as was that of Homer or Shakspeare, though a
prodigy, is such a one as by no means exceeds the bounds of rational
credibility."

Now it does not appear that Shakspeare or Homer were such early
prodigies; so that by this reasoning he must take precedence of them
too, as well as of Milton, Cowley, and Pope.  The reverend and classical
writer then breaks out into the following melancholy raptures:--

      "Unfortunate boy! short and evil were thy days, but thy fame shall
be immortal.  Hadst thou been known to the munificent patrons of
genius . . .
      "Unfortunate boy! poorly wast thou accommodated during thy short
sojourning here among us;--rudely wast thou treated--sorely did thy
feelings suffer from the scorn of the unworthy; and there are at last
those who wish to rob thee of thy only meed, thy posthumous glory.
Severe too are the censures of thy morals.  In the gloomy moments of
despondency, I fear thou hast uttered impious and blasphemous thoughts.
But let thy more rigid censors reflect, that thou wast literally and
strictly but a boy.  Let many of thy bitterest enemies reflect what were
their own religious principles, and whether they had any at the age of
fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen.  Surely it is a severe and an unjust
surmise that thou wouldst probably have ended thy life as a victim to
the laws, if thou hadst not ended it as thou didst."

Enough, enough, of the learned antiquaries, and of the classical and
benevolent testimony of Dr. Knox. [Illustration: LEPANTO. COURSE OF
ALLIED FLEET FROM ITHACA CHANNEL TO SCENE OF BATTLE]
The signal was sent back, "Enemy in sight," for the number of sails told
it must be a fleet, and could be none other than that of Ali Pasha. The
allied squadrons began to clear for action, and Don Juan displayed
for the first time the consecrated banner sent him by Pius V, a large
square flag embroidered with the crucifix and the figures of Saints
Peter and Paul.

It was an anxious time for the Christian admiral. His fleet, now straggling
for miles along the coast, had to close up, issue from the channel,
round Cape Scropha, and form in battle array in the open water to the
eastward.
If the Turks, who had the wind to help them, came up before this complex
operation was completed, he risked being beaten in detail.

While the fleet was still working its way through the channel, Don Juan
had sent one of the Roman pilots, Cecco Pisani forward in a swift galley
to reconnoitre. Pisani landed on Oxia, climbed one of its crags, and
from this lofty outlook counted 250 sail in the enemy's fleet, which
was coming out along the north shore of the gulf, the three main
squadrons abreast, the reserve astern of them.

      Returning to the "Reale,"[6] the
      pilot gave a guarded report to Don
      Juan, fearing to discourage the
      young commander now that
          battle was inevitable,
          but to his own admiral, the
          veteran Colonna, he spoke freely.

      "Signor," he said, "you must put out
      all your claws, for it will be a
      hard fight."
      [6] The flagship.
          
          Then the wind suddenly fell
          and the sea became calm as a lake.

      The Turks were seen to be furling their
      now useless sails. The rapidity with
      which the manoeuvre was simultaneously
      executed by hundreds of ships
          excited the admiration
          of the Christians. It showed
          the enemy had well-disciplined and practised crews.

      But at the same time the fact that at
      a crisis, when every moment
      gained was priceless, the Turks had lost
      the fair wind, convinced the allies
          that Heaven was
          aiding them, and gave them
          confidence in the promises of their chaplains, grey-cowled Franciscans
and black-robed Dominicans, who were telling them that the prayers
of Christendom would assure them a victory.

      Their young chief, Don Juan, left the
      "Reale" and embarked in a swift
      brigantine, in which he rowed along
      the forming line of the fleet. Clad
          in complete armour
          he stood in the bow holding
          up a crucifix, and as he passed each galley he called on officers
and men to spare no effort in the holy cause for which they were
about to fight.

      Then he returned to his post on the
      poop of the "Reale," which was in
      the centre of the line, with
      several other large galleys
          grouped around her.
          As each ship was pulled
          into her fighting position, the Christian galley-slaves were freed
from the oar and given weapons with which to fight for the common
cause and their own freedom.

      It was intended that the galleys of the
      left, centre, and right should
      form one long line, with the six
      galleasses well out in front of them,
          two before each
          division. These were to
          break the force of the Turkish onset with their cannon.

      But when the long line of the enemy's
      galleys came rushing to the
      onset, Don Juan's battle array was
      still incomplete.
          Barbarigo's flagship
          was on the extreme left
          under the land.

      His division had formed upon this mark,
      "dressing by the left," as a
      soldier would say.
      The tall galleasses of two gallant brothers, the Venetians Ambrogio
and Antonio Bragadino, kinsmen of the hero of Famagusta, lay well
out in front of the left division.

All the ships had their sails furled and the long yards hauled fore
and aft. Don Juan had formed up the centre division, two more galleasses
out in front, the "Reale" in the middle of the line, the galleys of
Veniero and Colonna to right and left, and two selected galleys lying
astern, covering the intervals between them and the flagship. Only a
few oars were being used to keep the ships in their stations. So far
so good, but the rest of the allied fleet was still coming up. The reserve
was only issuing from the channel behind Cape Scropha, and Doria was
leading the right division into line, with his two galleasses working
up astern, where their artillery would be useless. Thus when the battle
began not much more than half of the Christian armada was actually in
line. But for the sudden calm the position would have been even
worse.

[Illustration: LEPANTO 1. ALLIES FORMING LINE OF BATTLE. TURKS
ADVANCING TO ATTACK]
It was almost noon when the battle began. The first shots were fired by
the four galleasses, as the long line of Ottoman galleys came sweeping
on into range of their guns. Heavy cannon, such as they carried,
were still something of a novelty in naval war, and the Turks had a dread
of these tall floating castles that bristled with guns, from which fire,
smoke, and iron were now hurled against them. One of the first shots crashed
into the deck of Ali Pasha's flagship, scattering destruction as it
came. The Turkish line swayed and lost its even array. Some ships
hesitated, others crowded together in order to pass clear of the galleasses.
Daring captains, who ventured to approach with an idea of boarding them,
shrank back under the storm of musketry that burst from their lofty
bulwarks. The Turkish fleet surged past the galleasses, broken into
confused masses of ships, with wide intervals between each squadron,
as a stream is divided by the piles of a bridge.

This disarray of the Turkish attack diminished the fire their bow-guns
could bring to bear on the Christian line, for the leading
galleys masked the batteries of those that followed. Along the allied
left and centre, lying in even array bows to the attack, the guns
roared out in a heavy cannonade.

But then as the Ottoman bows came rushing through the smoke, and the
fleets closed on each other, the guns of the galleys were silent.
For a few moments the fight had been like a modern battle, with
hundreds of guns thundering over the sea. Now it was a fight like
Salamis or Actium, except for the sharp reports of musketry in the mêlée
and the cannon of the galleasses making the Turkish galleys their mark
when they could fire into the mass without danger to their friends.

The first to meet in close conflict were Barbarigo's division on the allied
left and Mohammed Scirocco's squadron, which was opposed to it on the
Turkish right. The Egyptian Pasha brought his own galley into action
on the extreme flank bow to bow with the Venetian flagship, and some of
the lighter Turkish galleys, by working through the shallows between
Barbarigo and the land, were able to fall on the rear of the extreme
left of the line, while the larger galleys pressed the attack in
front. The Venetian flagship was rushed by a boarding-party of
Janissaries, and her decks cleared as far as the mainmast. Barbarigo,
fighting with his visor open, was mortally wounded with an arrow in
his face, and was carried below. But his nephew Contarini restored the
fight, and with the help of reinforcements from the next galley drove the
boarders from the decks of the flagship. Contarini was mortally
wounded in the midst of his success.
But two of his comrades, Nani and Porcia, led a rush of Venetians and
Spaniards on to Mohammed Scirocco's flagship, whose decks were swept
by the fire of the arquebusiers before the charge of swords and pikes
burst over her bows. The onset was irresistible. The Turks were cut
down, stabbed, hurled overboard, Mohammed himself being killed in the
mêlée.

By the time the great galley of Alexandria was thus captured the landward
wings of the two fleets were mingled together in a confused fight, in
which there was little left of the original order. There was more trace
of a line on the allied or Christian side. The Turks had not broken
through them, but they had swung round, somewhat forcing Mohammed's
galleys towards the shore.

      When the standard of the Egyptian
      admiral was hauled down by the victorious Venetians, and the rowers
suddenly ceased to be slaves and fraternized with the conquerors,
some of the captains on the Turkish right lost heart, drove their
galleys aground in the shallows and deserted them for the shore,
where they hoped to find refuge among friends.

On Don Juan's left, though the fighting continued in a fierce mêlée
of ships locked together, and with crews doing wild work with loud
arquebuse and clashing sword, the battle was practically won.

      [Illustration: LEPANTO 2. BEGINNING
      OF THE BATTLE (NOON, OCT 7 1571)]

Meanwhile there had been close and deadly fighting in the centre. The
main squadron of the Turks had, like their right division, suffered
from the fire of the advanced galleasses. Several shots had struck the
huge galley that flew the flag of the Capitan-Pasha, Ali, a white pennon
sent from Mecca, embroidered in gold with verses of the Koran.
Ali steered straight for the centre of the Christian line, where the group
of large galleys, the "Reale" with the embroidered standard of the
Holy League, Colonna's ship with its ensign of the Papal Keys, and
Veniero's with the Lion-flag of St.

      Mark, told him he was striking at the heart of the confederacy.

He chose Don Juan's "Reale" for his adversary, relying on the Seraskier
Pertev Pasha, and the Pasha of Mitylene on his left and right, to support
him by attacking the other two flagships.

Ali held the fire of his bow-guns till he was within a short musket-shot
of his enemy, and then fired at point-blank. One of his cannon-balls
crashed through the bow barrier of the "Reale," and raked the rowers'
benches, killing several oarsmen. As the guns of the "Reale" thundered
out their reply, the bow of the Turkish flagship, towering over the
forecastle of Don Juan's vessel, came through the smoke-cloud
and struck the Spanish ship stem to stem with a grinding crash and
a splintering of timber, throwing down many of the crew. The Turkish
bow dug deep into the Spanish ship, and in the confusion of the
collision it was thought for a moment she was sinking, but a forward
bulkhead kept her afloat. Ali's ship rebounded from the shock, then
glided alongside the "Reale" with much mutual smashing of oars. The
two ships grappled, and the hand-to-hand fight began. At the same
time Pertev Pasha grappled Veniero's flagship, and another Turkish
galley, commanded by Ali's two sons, forced its way through the
line and engaged the two galleys that lay astern of the flagship. Then
the Pasha of Mitylene closed upon Colonna's ship, and all along the centre
the galleys came dashing together. The crash of broken oars, the rattling
explosions of arquebuses and grenades, the war-notes of the Christian
trumpets and the Turkish drums, the clash of swords, the shouts and yells
of the combatants, rose in a deafening din.

Froissart wrote in an earlier day that sea-fights were always
murderous. This last great battle of the medieval navies had the character
of its predecessors. In this fight at close quarters on the narrow
space afforded by the galleys' decks there was no question of
surrender on either side, no thought but of which could strike
the hardest and kill the most. Nor could men, striving hand to hand in
the confusion of the floating mêlée, know anything of what was being
done beyond their limited range of view, so that even the admirals
became for the moment only leaders of small groups of fighting-men.
On the poop and forecastle of the "Reale" were gathered men whose
names recalled all that was greatest in the annals of Spanish chivalry,
veterans who had fought the Moor and voyaged the western ocean, and young
cavaliers eager to show themselves worthy sons of the lines of
Guzman and Mendoza, Benavides and Salazar. Don Juan, arrayed in complete
steel, stood by the flagstaff of the consecrated standard. Along the
bulwarks four hundred Castilian arquebusiers in corselet and
head-piece represented the pick of the yet unconquered Spanish
infantry.

The three hundred rowers had left the oars, and, armed with pike and
sword, were ready to second them, when the musketry ceased and the
storming of the Turkish galleys began. From Ali's ship a hundred archers
and three hundred musketeers of the Janissary corps replied to the fire
of the Spaniards. The range was a few feet. Men were firing in each other's
faces, and at such close quarters the arquebuse with its heavy ball was
a more death-dealing weapon than the modern rifle. Such slaughter could
not last, and the _caballeros_ were eager to end it by closing on the
Turks with cold steel.

[Illustration: LEPANTO 3. THE MÊLÉE (ABOUT 12.30 P.M.)]
Twice they dashed through the smoke over Ali's bulwarks, and for a while
gained a footing on the deck of the enemy's flagship. Twice they
were driven back by the reinforcements that Ali drew from the crews
of galleys that had crowded to his aid.

                         Then the Turks
      came clambering over the bows of the "Reale," and nearly cleared
the forecastle.

Don Bernardino de Cardenas brought up a reserve from the waist of the
ship and attacked the Turkish boarders in the bows. He was struck by a
musket-ball. It dinted his steel helmet, but failed to penetrate.

Cardenas fell, stunned by the shock of the blow, and died next day,
"though he showed no sign of a wound."
Don Juan himself was going forward sword in hand to assist in the fight in
the bows of the "Reale," and Ali was hurrying up reinforcements to the
attack. It was a critical moment. But Colonna just then struck a decisive
blow. He had boarded and stormed the ship that attacked him, a long
galley commanded by the Bey of Negropont.

      Having thus disposed of his immediate
      adversary, he saw the peril of the "Reale."

Manning all his oars, he drove the bow of his flagship deep into the stern
of Ali's ship, swept her decks with a volley of musketry, and sent a
storming-party on to her poop. The diversion saved the "Reale." The
Spaniards hustled the Turks over her bows at point of pike, and Ali,
attacked on two sides, had now to fight on the defensive.

On the other side of the "Reale" Veniero's flagship was making a splendid
fight. It is the details of those old battles that bring home to us
the changes of three centuries. A modern admiral stands sheltered in his
conning tower, amid voice tubes and electrical transmitters. Veniero, a
veteran of seventy years, stood by the poop-rail of his galley, thinking
less of commanding than of doing his own share of the killing.
Balls and arrows whistled around him, along the bulwarks amidships his
men were fighting hand to hand with the Seraskier's galley that lay lashed
alongside. There were no orders to give for the moment, so he occupied
himself with firing a blunderbuss into the crowd on the Turkish deck,
and handing it to a servant to reload with half a dozen balls, and
then firing again and again.

      Here, too, in the main squadron were fighting the galleys of Spinola
of Genoa, of the young Duke of Urbino, of the Prince of Parma, of
Bonelli, the nephew of Pius V, of Sforza of Milan, and Gonzaga of
Solferino, and the young heirs of the Roman houses of Colonna and
Orsini.

Venice had not all the glory of Lepanto. All Italy still remembers
that every noble family, every famous city, from the Alps to Sicily,
had its part in the battle.

Colonna's timely aid to the "Reale" was the turning-point of the
fight in the centre. Led by Vasquez Coronada and Gil d'Andrada, the Spanish
infantry poured into Ali's ship, and winning their way foot by foot
cleared her decks. Not one of her four hundred fighting-men survived. Ali
himself was one of the last to fall. One account says that when all was
lost he cut his throat with his dagger, another that he was shot down at
close quarters.

His head was cut off, placed on a pike, and carried to Don Juan
with the captured standard of Mecca. The chivalrous young admiral turned
with disgust from the sight of the blood-dripping head, and ordered
it to be thrown into the sea.

      The battle had lasted an hour and a half.
      Don Juan saw in the capture of the enemy's flagship the assurance
of victory.

Like all great commanders, he knew the value of moral effect. He hoisted
the consecrated banner of the League at the tall mast-head of the
conquered galley, and bade his trumpeters blow a flourish and
his men shout victory. In the confusion and uproar of the mêlée not
many of the ships would see what was happening round the "Reale," but
this demonstration would attract the attention of friends and foes
in the centre of the fight. It was just one of the moments when, both
parties becoming exhausted by the prolonged struggle, success would
belong to the side that could put forth even for a while the more
vigorous effort, and the sight of the papal standard fluttering
from the Turkish mast, instead of the banner of Mecca, inspired
this effort on the part of the Christians, and depressed and
discouraged their adversaries.

        Pertev Pasha had lost heavily under the
      fire of the Venetian flagship, and
      had failed in an effort to board
      her. He cut his galley adrift.
      Veniero let her go, and turned to
      attack other enemies. Pertev's
      ship drifted down on two Christian
      galleys, and was promptly boarded and
      taken. The Seraskier slipped on
      board of a small craft he was towing
      astern, reached another ship, and, giving
      up all hope of victory, fled with her from the fight.

        Veniero had meanwhile rammed and sunk
      two other galleys. He was wounded
      with a bullet in the leg, but he had the
      wound bandaged and remained on deck.

        The old man gave Venice good reason
      to be proud of her admiral.
      
      Along the left and centre of the Christian
      armada there was now victory.
      Admirals and captains were busy
      storming or sinking such of the
      enemy's ships as still maintained the
      fight. On the left Barbarigo had
      been mortally wounded, and the losses
      had been heavy, but the success was so
      pronounced that large numbers of men had
      been landed to hunt down the Turkish
      fugitives on the shore. In the centre
      there was still some hard fighting.
      Here it was that Miguel Cervantes, leading the stormers to the
capture of a Turkish galley, received three wounds, one of which
cost him his left hand.

        When the battle began at noon, first
      on the allied left, then in the
      centre, Doria, the Genoese admiral
      who commanded the right, was not yet in position.

        His orders were to mark with his
      flagship the extreme right of
      the line of battle so that the rest
      of his division could form on this point.
      But it was soon seen that he was
      keeping away, steering southward
      into the open sea, with his division
      trailing after him in a long line, the
      galleasses that should have been out in
      front coming slowly up behind the
      squadron. Ulugh Ali with the left
      wing of the Turkish fleet had also altered
      his course, and was steering on a
      parallel line to that taken by the
      Genoese. Some of the Christian captains
      who watched these movements from the right centre thought that
Doria was deserting the armada, and even that he was in flight,
pursued by Ulugh Ali.

        Doria afterwards explained that,
      as he steered out from behind the
      centre to take up his position in the
      battle line, he saw that Ulugh Ali, instead
      of forming on Ali Pasha's flank, was working
      out to seaward, and he therefore believed that the Algerine was
trying to get upon the flank of the allied line, in order to envelop
it and attack from both front and rear, so as to crush the extreme
right with a local superiority of force.

        His plan was, therefore, to confine
      himself to observing Ulugh Ali's movements,
      steering on a parallel course in the
      hope of eventually closing and meeting
      him fairly ship to ship.
      Doria was an old sailor, perhaps the most
      experienced leader in the fleet,
      except the veteran Veniero.
      If he had been less of a tactician,
      perhaps he would have come into
      action sooner.
      And it is strange that, while playing for
      position against Ulugh Ali, he did
      not realize that if, instead of continually increasing his own
distance from the centre, he had at any moment turned back towards
it, he could thus force the Algerine admiral either to close with
him or leave him free to overwhelm the Turkish main squadron by
enveloping its left.

        It was Ulugh Ali, not Doria, who turned
      back and ventured on a stroke like this.
      
      Weel mounted on his grey mare, Meg,
      A better never lifted leg,
      Tam skelpit on thro' dub and mire,
      Despising wind, and rain, and fire;
      Whiles haulding fast his gude blue bonnet;
      Whiles crooning o'er some auld Scots sonnet;
      Whiles glowring round wi' prudent cares,
      Lest bogles catch him unawares;
      Kirk-Alloway was drawing nigh,
      Whare ghaists and houlets nightly cry.--

        By this time Tam was cross the ford,
      Whare in the snaw, the chapman smoor'd;
      And past the birks and meikle stane,
      Whare drunken Charlie brak's neck-bane;
      And thro' the whins, and by the cairn,
      Where hunters fand the murder'd bairn;
      And near the thorn, aboon the well,
      Whare Mungo's mither hang'd hersel.--
      Before him Doon pours all his floods;
      The doubling storm roars thro' the woods;
      The lightnings flash from pole to pole;
      Near and more near the thunders roll:
      Whan, glimmering thro' the groaning trees,
      Kirk-Alloway seem'd in a bleeze;
      Thro' ilka bore the beams were glancing;
      And loud resounded mirth and dancing.

        Inspiring bold John Barleycorn!
      What dangers thou canst make us scorn!
      Wi' Tippenny, we fear nae evil,
      Wi' Usqueba, we'll face the devil!
      The swats sae ream'd in Tammie's noddle,
      Fair play, he car'd na de'ils a boddle.
      But Maggie stood right sair astonish'd,
      Till by the heel and hand admonish'd,
      She ventur'd forward on the light,
      And, vow! Tam saw an unco sight!
      Warlocks and witches in a dance,
      Nae light cotillion new frae France,
      But hornpipes, jigs, strathspeys, and reels,
      Put life and mettle in their heels.
      As winnock-bunker, in the east,
      There sat auld Nick, in shape o' beast;
      A touzie tyke, black, grim, and large,
      To gie them music was his charge;
      He screw'd the pipes, and gart them skirl,
      Till roof and rafters a' did dirl.--
      Coffins stood round like open presses,
      That shaw'd the dead in their last dresses;
      And, by some devilish cantrip slight,
      Each in its cauld hand held a light--
      By which heroic Tam was able
      To note upon the haly table,
      A murderer's banes in gibbet-airns;
      Twa span-lang, wee, unchristen'd bairns;
      A thief, new cutted frae a rape,
      Wi' his last gasp his gab did gape;
      Five tomahawks, wi' bluid red rusted;
      Five scimitars, wi' murder crusted;
      A garter, which a babe had strangled;
      A knife, a father's throat had mangled,
      Whom his ain son o' life bereft,
      The grey hairs yet stack to the heft;
      Wi' mair, o' horrible and awfu',
      Which e'en to name wad be unlawfu'.

        As Tammie glowr'd amaz'd, and curious,
      The mirth and fun grew fast and furious:
      The Piper loud and louder blew;
      The dancers quick and quicker flew;
      They reel'd, they set, they cross'd, they cleekit,
      Till ilka Carlin swat and reekit,
      And coost her duddies to the wark,
      And linket at it in her sark!

        Now Tam, O Tam! had they been queans
      A' plump and strapping in their teens;
      Their sarks, instead o' creeshie flannen,
      Been snaw-white seventeen hundred linen!
      Thir breeks o' mine, my only pair,
      That ance were plush, o' guid blue hair,
      I wad hae gi'en them aff my hurdies,
      For ae blink o' the bonnie burdies!

        But wither'd beldams, auld and droll,
      Rigwoodie hags wad spean a foal,
      Louping and flinging on a crummock,
      I wonder did na turn thy stomach.

        But Tam ken'd what was what fu' brawly,
      There was ae winsome wench and waly,
      That night enlisted in the core,
      (Lang after ken'd on Carrick shore;
      For mony a beast to dead she shot,
      And perish'd mony a bonnie boat,
      And shook baith meikle corn and bear,
      And kept the country-side in fear--)
      Her cutty sark o' Paisley harn,
      That while a lassie she had worn,
      In longitude tho' sorely scanty,
      It was her best, and she was vaunty.--
      Ah! little ken'd thy reverend grannie,
      That sark she coft for her wee Nannie,
      Wi' twa pund Scots ('twas a' her riches),
      Wad ever grac'd a dance of witches!

        But here my Muse her wing maun cour;
      Sic flights are far beyond her power:
      To sing how Nannie lap and flang,
      (A souple jade she was, and strang)
      And how Tam stood like ane bewitch'd,
      And thought his very een enrich'd;
      Ev'n Satan glowr'd and fidg'd fu' fain,
      And hotch't, and blew wi' might and main;
      Till first ae caper, syne anither,
      Tam tint his reason a' thegither,
      And roars out, "Weel done, Cutty Sark!"
      And in an instant all was dark;
      And scarcely had he Maggie rallied,
      When out the hellish legion sallied.

        As bees biz out wi' angry fyke
      When plundering herds assail their byke;
      As open pussie's mortal foes,
      When, pop! she starts before their nose;
      As eager rins the market-crowd,
      When "Catch the thief!" resounds aloud;
      So Maggie rins--the witches follow,
      Wi' mony an eldritch skreech and hollow,

        Ah, Tam! ah, Tam! thou 'll get thy fairin'!
      In hell they'll roast thee like a herrin'!
      In vain thy Kate awaits thy comin'!
      Kate soon will be a waefu' woman!
      Now, do thy speedy utmost, Meg,
      And win the key-stane o' the brig;
      There, at them thou thy tail may toss,
      A running stream they dare na cross;
      But ere the key-stane she could make,
      The fient a tail she had to shake!
      For Nannie, far before the rest,
      Hard upon noble Maggie prest,
      And flew at Tam wi' furious ettle;
      But little wist she Maggie's mettle--
      Ae spring brought off her master hale,
      But left behind, her ain grey tail:
      The Carlin claught her by the rump,
      And left poor Maggie scarce a stump.

        Now, wha this tale o' truth shall read,
      Ilk man and mother's son tak heed:
      Whane'er to drink you are inclin'd,
      Or Cutty Sarks rin in your mind,
      Think, ye may buy the joys owre dear;
      Remember Tam o' Shanter's mare."

Burns has given the extremes of licentious eccentricity and convivial
enjoyment, in the story of this scape-grace, and of patriarchal
simplicity and gravity in describing the old national character of the
Scottish peasantry.  The Cotter's Saturday Night is a noble and pathetic
picture of human manners, mingled with a fine religious awe.  It comes
over the mind like a slow and solemn strain of music.  The soul of the
poet aspires from this scene of low-thoughted care, and reposes, in
trembling hope, on "the bosom of its Father and its God." Hardly any
thing can be more touching than the following stanzas, for instance,
whether as they describe human interests, or breathe a lofty devotional
spirit.

      "The toil-worn Cotter frae his labour goes,
        This night his weekly moil is at an end,
      Collects his spades, his mattocks, and his hoes,
        Hoping the morn in ease and rest to spend,
      And weary, o'er the moor, his course does hameward bend.

      At length his lonely cot appears in view,
        Beneath the shelter of an aged tree;
      Th' expectant wee-things, toddlin, stacher through
        To meet their dad, wi' flichterin noise and glee.
      His wee-bit ingle, blinkin bonilie,
        His clean hearth-stane, his thriftie wifie's smile,
      The lisping infant, prattling on his knee,
        Does a' his weary carking cares beguile,
      And makes him quite forget his labour and his toil.

      Belyve, the elder bairns come drapping in,
        At service out, amang the farmers roun',
      Some ca' the pleugh, some herd, some tentie rin
        A cannie errand to a neebor town;
      Their eldest hope, their Jenny, woman-grown,
        In youthfu' bloom, love sparkling in her e'e,
      Comes hame, perhaps, to shew a braw new gown,
        Or deposit her sair-won penny-fee,
      To help her parents dear, if they in hardship be.

      Wi' joy unfeign'd, brothers and sisters meet,
        An' each for other's welfare kindly spiers;
      The social hours, swift-winged, unnotic'd fleet;
        Each tells the uncos that he sees or hears:
      The parents, partial, eye their hopeful years;
        Anticipation forward points the view;
      The mither, wi' her needle an' her shears,
        Gars auld claes look amaist as weel's the new;
      The father mixes a' wi' admonition due.

      *   *   *   *   *   *   *

      But, hark! a rap comes gently to the door;
        Jenny, wha kens the meaning o' the same,
      Tells how a neebor lad cam o'er the moor,
        To do some errands, and convoy her hame.
      The wily mother sees the conscious flame
        Sparkle in Jenny's e'e, and flush her cheek;
      With heart-struck, anxious care, inquires his name,
        While Jenny hafflins is afraid to speak;
      Weel pleas'd the mother hears it's nae wild, worthless rake.

      Wi' kindly welcome, Jenny brings him ben;
        A strappan youth; he taks the mother's eye;
      Blithe Jenny sees the visit's no ill ta'en;
        The father craks of horses, pleughs, and kye.
      The youngster's artless heart o'erflows wi' joy,
        But blate an' laithfu', scarce can weel behave;
      The mother, wi' a woman's wiles, can spy
        What makes the youth sae bashfu' an' sae grave;
      Weel-pleas'd to think her bairn's respected like the lave.

      But now the supper crowns their simple board,
        The halesome parritch, chief o' Scotia's food:
      The soupe their only hawkie does afford,
        That 'yont the hallan snugly chows her cood:
      The dame brings forth, in complimental mood,
        To grace the lad, her weel-hain'd kebbuck, fell,
      An' aft he's prest, an' aft he ca's it guid;
        The frugal wifie, garrulous, will tell,
      How 'twas a towmond auld, sin' lint was i' the bell.

      The cheerfu' supper done, wi' serious face,
        They, round the ingle, form a circle wide;
      The sire turns o'er, with patriarchal grace,
        The big ha'-Bible, ance his father's pride:
      His bonnet rev'rently is laid aside,
        His lyart haffets wearing thin an' bare;
      Those strains that once did sweet in Zion glide,
        He wales a portion wi' judicious care;
      And "Let us worship God!" he says, with solemn air.

      They chant their artless notes in simple guise;
        They tune their hearts, by far the noblest aim:
      Perhaps Dundee's wild-warbling measures rise,
        Or plaintive Martyrs, worthy of the name;
      Or noble Elgin beets the heav'n-ward flame,
        The sweetest far of Scotia's holy lays:
      Compar'd with these, Italian trills are tame;
        The tickled ears no heart-felt raptures raise;
      Nae unison hae they with our Creator's praise."--

Burns's poetical epistles to his friends are admirable, whether for
the touches of satire, the painting of character, or the sincerity of
friendship they display.  Those to Captain Grose, and to Davie, a brother
poet, are among the best:--they are "the true pathos and sublime of
human life." His prose-letters are sometimes tinctured with affectation.
They seem written by a man who has been admired for his wit, and is
expected on all occasions to shine.  Those in which he expresses his
ideas of natural beauty in reference to Alison's Essay on Taste, and
advocates the keeping up the remembrances of old customs and seasons,
are the most powerfully written.  His English serious odes and moral
stanzas are, in general, failures, such as The Lament, Man was made to
Mourn, &c. nor do I much admire his "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled." In
this strain of didactic or sentimental moralising, the lines to
Glencairn are the most happy, and impressive.  His imitations of the old
humorous ballad style of Ferguson's songs are no whit inferior to the
admirable originals, such as "John Anderson, my Joe," and many more.  But
of all his productions, the pathetic and serious love-songs which he has
left behind him, in the manner of the old ballads, are perhaps those
which take the deepest and most lasting hold of the mind.  Such are the
lines to Mary Morison, and those entitled Jessy.

      "Here's a health to ane I lo'e dear--
      Here's a health to ane I lo'e dear--
      Thou art sweet as the smile when fond lovers meet,
        And soft as their parting tear--Jessy!

      Altho' thou maun never be mine,
        Altho' even hope is denied;
      'Tis sweeter for thee despairing,
        Than aught in the world beside--Jessy!"

The conclusion of the other is as follows.

      "Yestreen, when to the trembling string
        The dance gaed through the lighted ha',
      To thee my fancy took its wing,
        I sat, but neither heard nor saw.
      Tho' this was fair, and that was bra',
        And yon the toast of a' the town,
      I sighed and said among them a',
        Ye are na' Mary Morison."

That beginning, "Oh gin my love were a bonny red rose," is a piece of
rich and fantastic description.  One would think that nothing could
surpass these in beauty of expression, and in true pathos: and nothing
does or can, but some of the old Scotch ballads themselves.  There is in
them a still more original cast of thought, a more romantic imagery--
the thistle's glittering down, the gilliflower on the old garden-wall,
the horseman's silver bells, the hawk on its perch--a closer intimacy
with nature, a firmer reliance on it, as the only stock of wealth which
the mind has to resort to, a more infantine simplicity of manners, a
greater strength of affection, hopes longer cherished and longer
deferred, sighs that the heart dare hardly heave, and "thoughts that
often lie too deep for tears." We seem to feel that those who wrote and
sung them (the early minstrels) lived in the open air, wandering on from
place to place with restless feet and thoughts, and lending an ever-open
ear to the fearful accidents of war or love, floating on the breath of
old tradition or common fame, and moving the strings of their harp with
sounds that sank into a nation's heart.  How fine an illustration of this
is that passage in Don Quixote, where the knight and Sancho, going in
search of Dulcinea, inquire their way of the countryman, who was driving
his mules to plough before break of day, "singing the ancient ballad of
Roncesvalles." Sir Thomas Overbury describes his country girl as still
accompanied with fragments of old songs.  One of the best and most
striking descriptions of the effects of this mixture of national poetry
and music is to be found in one of the letters of Archbishop Herring,
giving an account of a confirmation-tour in the mountains of Wales.

      "That pleasure over, our work became very arduous, for we were to
mount a rock, and in many places of the road, over natural stairs of
stone.  I submitted to this, which they told me was but a taste of the
country, and to prepare me for worse things to come.  However, worse
things did not come that morning, for we dined soon after out of our own
wallets; and though our inn stood in a place of the most frightful
solitude, and the best formed for the habitation of monks (who once
possessed it) in the world, yet we made a cheerful meal.  The novelty of
the thing gave me spirits, and the air gave me appetite much keener than
the knife I ate with.  We had our music too; for there came in a harper,
who soon drew about us a group of figures that Hogarth would have given
any price for.  The harper was in his true place and attitude; a man and
woman stood before him, singing to his instrument wildly, but not
disagreeably; a little dirty child was playing with the bottom of the
harp; a woman in a sick night-cap hanging over the stairs; a boy with
crutches fixed in a staring attention, and a girl carding wool in the
chimney, and rocking a cradle with her naked feet, interrupted in her
business by the charms of the music; all ragged and dirty, and all
silently attentive.  These figures gave us a most entertaining picture,
and would please you or any man of observation; and one reflection gave
me a particular comfort, that the assembly before us demonstrated, that
even here, the influential sun warmed poor mortals, and inspired them
with love and music."

I could wish that Mr. Wilkie had been recommended to take this group
as the subject of his admirable pencil; he has painted a picture of
Bathsheba, instead.

In speaking of the old Scotch ballads, I need do no more than mention
the name of Auld Robin Gray.  The effect of reading this old ballad is as
if all our hopes and fears hung upon the last fibre of the heart, and we
felt that giving way.  What silence, what loneliness, what leisure for
grief and despair!

      "My father pressed me sair,
        Though my mother did na' speak;
      But she looked in my face
        Till my heart was like to break."

The irksomeness of the situations, the sense of painful dependence, is
excessive; and yet the sentiment of deep-rooted, patient affection
triumphs over all, and is the only impression that remains.  Lady Ann
Bothwell's Lament is not, I think, quite equal to the lines beginning--

      "O waly, waly, up the bank,
        And waly, waly, down the brae,
      And waly, waly, yon burn side,
        Where I and my love wont to gae.
      I leant my back unto an aik,
        I thought it was a trusty tree;
      But first it bow'd, and syne it brak,
        Sae my true-love's forsaken me.

      O waly, waly, love is bonny,
        A little time while it is new;
      But when its auld, it waxeth cauld,
        And fades awa' like the morning dew.
      When cockle-shells turn siller bells,
        And muscles grow on every tree,
      Whan frost and snaw sall warm us aw,
        Then sall my love prove true to me.

      Now Arthur seat sall be my bed,
        The sheets sall ne'er be fyld by me:
      Saint Anton's well sall be my drink,
        Since my true-love's forsaken me.
      Martinmas wind, when wilt thou blaw,
        And shake the green leaves aff the tree?
      O gentle death, whan wilt thou cum,
        And tak' a life that wearies me!

      'Tis not the frost that freezes sae,
        Nor blawing snaw's inclemencie,
      'Tis not sic cauld, that makes me cry,
        But my love's heart grown cauld to me.
      Whan we came in by Glasgow town,
        We were a comely sight to see,
      My love was clad in black velvet,
        And I myself in cramasie.

      But had I wist before I kist,
        That love had been sae hard to win;
      I'd lockt my heart in case of gowd,
        And pinn'd it with a siller pin.
      And oh! if my poor babe were born,
        And set upon the nurse's knee,
      And I mysel in the cold grave!
        Since my true-love 's forsaken me."

The finest modern imitation of this style is the Braes of Yarrow; and
perhaps the finest subject for a story of the same kind in any modern
book, is that told in Turner's History of England, of a Mahometan woman,
who having fallen in love with an English merchant, the father of Thomas
a Becket, followed him all the way to England, knowing only the word
London, and the name of her lover, Gilbert.

But to have done with this, which is rather too serious a subject.--
The old English ballads are of a gayer and more lively turn.
They are adventurous and romantic; but they relate chiefly to good
living and good fellowship, to drinking and hunting scenes.  Robin Hood
is the chief of these, and he still, in imagination, haunts Sherwood
Forest.  The archers green glimmer under the waving branches; the print
on the grass remains where they have just finished their noon-tide meal
under the green-wood tree; and the echo of their bugle-horn and twanging
bows resounds through the tangled mazes of the forest, as the tall slim
deer glances startled by.

      "The trees in Sherwood Forest are old and good;
        The grass beneath them now is dimly green:
        Are they deserted all?  Is no young mien,
      With loose-slung bugle, met within the wood?

      No arrow found--foil'd of its antler'd food--
        Struck in the oak's rude side?--Is there nought seen
        To mark the revelries which there have been,
      In the sweet days of merry Robin Hood?

      Go there with summer, and with evening--go
        In the soft shadows, like some wand'ring man--
        And thou shalt far amid the forest know
      The archer-men in green, with belt and bow,
        Feasting on pheasant, river-fowl, and swan,
        With Robin at their head, and Marian." [9]

___
[9] Sonnet on Sherwood Forest, by J.H. Reynolds, Esq.
___


LECTURE VIII.
ON THE LIVING POETS.


      "No more of talk where God or Angel guest
      With man, as with his friend, familiar us'd
      To sit indulgent."------

Genius is the heir of fame; but the hard condition on which the
bright reversion must be earned is the loss of life.  Fame is the
recompense not of the living, but of the dead.  The temple of fame stands
upon the grave: the flame that burns upon its altars is kindled from the
ashes of great men.  Fame itself is immortal, but it is not begot till
the breath of genius is extinguished.  For fame is not popularity, the
shout of the multitude, the idle buzz of fashion, the venal puff, the
soothing flattery of favour or of friendship; but it is the spirit of a
man surviving himself in the minds and thoughts of other men, undying
and imperishable.  It is the power which the intellect exercises over the
intellect, and the lasting homage which is paid to it, as such,
independently of time and circumstances, purified from partiality and
evil-speaking.  Fame is the sound which the stream of high thoughts,
carried down to future ages, makes as it flows--deep, distant,
murmuring evermore like the waters of the mighty ocean.  He who has ears
truly touched to this music, is in a manner deaf to the voice of
popularity.--The love of fame differs from mere vanity in this, that
the one is immediate and personal, the other ideal and abstracted.  It is
not the direct and gross homage paid to himself, that the lover of true
fame seeks or is proud of; but the indirect and pure homage paid to the
eternal forms of truth and beauty as they are reflected in his mind,
that gives him confidence and hope.  The love of nature is the first
thing in the mind of the true poet: the admiration of himself the last.
Its effect is one more illusion of the modern man.
Philologists are nothing but a guild of sky-pilots who are not
known as such · this is why the State takes an interest in them.
The utility of classical education is completely used up, whilst, for
example, the history of Christianity still shows its power.

68
Philologists, when discussing their science, never get down to the
root of the subject . they never set forth philology itself as a
problem. Bad conscience? or merely thoughtlessness?

69
We learn nothing from what philologists say about philology: it is all mere
tittle-tattle--for example, Jahn's[6] "The Meaning and Place of the Study
of Antiquity in Germany." There is no feeling for what should be
protected and defended: thus speak people who have not even thought of
the possibility that any one could attack them.

70
Philologists are people who exploit the vaguely-felt dissatisfaction of
modern man, and his desire for "something better," in order that
they may earn their bread and butter.

I know them--I myself am one of them.

71
Our philologists stand in the same relation to true educators as the
medicine-men of the wild Indians do to true physicians What astonishment
will be felt by a later age!

72
What they lack is a real taste for the strong and powerful characteristics
of the ancients. They turn into mere panegyrists, and thus become
ridiculous.

73
They have forgotten how to address other men; and, as they cannot speak
to the older people, they cannot do so to the young.

74
When we bring the Greeks to the knowledge of our young students, we are
treating the latter as if they were well-informed and matured men.
What, indeed, is there about the Greeks and their ways which is
suitable for the young? In the end we shall find that we can do nothing
for them beyond giving them isolated details. Are these observations
for young people? What we actually do, however, is to introduce our young
scholars to the collective wisdom of antiquity. Or do we not? The
reading of the ancients is emphasised in this way.

My belief is that we are forced to concern ourselves with antiquity at
a wrong period of our lives. At the end of the twenties its meaning
begins to dawn on one.

75
There is something disrespectful about the way in which we make our young
students known to the ancients: what is worse, it is unpedagogical;
or what can result from a mere acquaintance with things which a youth
cannot consciously esteem! Perhaps he must learn to "_believe_" and this
is why I object to it.

76
There are matters regarding which antiquity instructs us, and about which
I should hardly care to express myself publicly.

77
All the difficulties of historical study to be elucidated by great
examples.

Why our young students are not suited to the Greeks.

The consequences of philology.
Arrogant expectation.
Culture-philistinism.
Superficiality.
Too high an esteem for reading and writing.
Estrangement from the nation and its needs.

The philologists themselves, the historians, philosophers, and jurists
all end in smoke.

Our young students should be brought into contact with real sciences.

Likewise with real art.

In consequence, when they grew older, a desire for _real_ history would
be shown.

78

Inhumanity: even in the "Antigone," even in Goethe's "Iphigenia."
The want of "rationalism" in the Greeks.

Young people cannot understand the political affairs of antiquity.

The poetic element: a bad expectation.

79

Do the philologists know the present time? Their judgments on it as
Periclean, their mistaken judgments when they speak of Freytag's[7]
genius as resembling that of Homer, and so on; their following in the
lead of the littérateurs, their abandonment of the pagan sense, which was
exactly the classical element that Goethe discovered in Winckelmann.

80
The condition of the philologists may be seen by their indifference
at the appearance of Wagner. They should have learnt even more through
him than through Goethe, and they did not even glance in his direction.
That shows that they are not actuated by any strong need, or else they
would have an instinct to tell them where their food was to be
found.

81
Wagner prizes his art too highly to go and sit in a corner with it,
like Schumann.

He either surrenders himself to the public ("Rienzi") or he makes the
public surrender itself to him. He educates it up to his music.

Minor artists, too, want their public, but they try to get it by
inartistic means, such as through the Press, Hanslick,[8] &c.

82
Wagner perfected the inner fancy of man . later generations will see a
renaissance in sculpture. Poetry must precede the plastic art.

83
I observe in philologists ·

1. Want of respect for antiquity.

2. Tenderness and flowery oratory; even an apologetic tone.

3. Simplicity in their historical comments.

4. Self-conceit.

5. Under-estimation of the talented philologists.

84
Philologists appear to me to be a secret society who wish to train our
youth by means of the culture of antiquity · I could well understand
this society and their views being criticised from all sides. A great
deal would depend upon knowing what these philologists understood by
the term "culture of antiquity"--If I saw, for example, that they were
training their pupils against German philosophy and German music, I
should either set about combating them or combating the culture of
antiquity, perhaps the former, by showing that these philologists had
not understood the culture of antiquity. Now I observe:

1.

A great indecision in the valuation of the culture of antiquity on the
part of philologists.

2. Something very non-ancient in themselves; something non-free.

3. Want of clearness in regard to the particular type of ancient culture
they mean.

4. Want of judgment in their methods of instruction, _e.g._, scholarship.

5. Classical education is served out mixed up with Christianity.

85
It is now no longer a matter of surprise to me that, with such teachers,
the education of our time should be worthless. I can never avoid
depicting this want of education in its true colours, especially in regard
to those things which ought to be learnt from antiquity if possible,
for example, writing, speaking, and so on.

86
The transmission of the emotions is hereditary: let that be recollected
when we observe the effect of the Greeks upon philologists.

87

      Even in the best of cases, philologists
      seek for no more than mere "rationalism" and Alexandrian culture--not
Hellenism.

88
Very little can be gained by mere diligence, if the head is dull.

Philologist after philologist has swooped down on Homer in the mistaken
belief that something of him can be obtained by force. Antiquity speaks
to us when it feels a desire to do so, not when we do.

89
The inherited characteristic of our present-day philologists · a
certain sterility of insight has resulted, for they promote the
science, but not the philologist.

90
The following is one way of carrying on classical studies, and a
frequent one: a man throws himself thoughtlessly, or is thrown,
into some special branch or other, whence he looks to the right and
left and sees a great deal that is good and new.

Then, in some unguarded moment, he asks himself: "But what the
devil has all this to do with me?" In the meantime he has grown old
and has become accustomed to it all; and therefore he continues in his
rut--just as in the case of marriage.

91

      In connection with the training of the modern
      philologist the influence of the science of linguistics should be
mentioned and judged; a philologist should rather turn aside from
it . the question of the early beginnings of the Greeks and Romans
should be nothing to him . how can they spoil their own subject in
such a way?

92
A morbid passion often makes its appearance from time to time in
connection with the oppressive uncertainty of divination, a passion for
believing and feeling sure at all costs: for example, when dealing with
Aristotle, or in the discovery of magic numbers, which, in Lachmann's case,
is almost an illness.

             93
      The consistency which is prized in a savant is pedantry if applied
to the Greeks.

94 
(THE GREEKS AND THE PHILOLOGISTS.)

THE GREEKS. THE PHILOLOGISTS are ·

render homage to beauty, babblers and triflers, develop the body,
ugly-looking creatures, speak clearly, stammerers, are religious
transfigurers filthy pedants, of everyday occurrences, are listeners
and observers, quibblers and scarecrows, have an aptitude for the
unfitted for the symbolical, symbolical, are in full possession of
ardent slaves of the State, their freedom as men, can look innocently out
Christians in disguise, into the world, are the pessimists of
philistines.
thought.

95
Bergk's "History of Literature": Not a spark of Greek fire or Greek
sense.

96
People really do compare our own age with that of Pericles, and congratulate
themselves on the reawakening of the feeling of patriotism:
I remember a parody on the funeral oration of Pericles by G. Freytag,[9]
in which this prim and strait-laced "poet" depicted the happiness now
experienced by sixty-year-old men.--All pure and simple caricature!
So this is the result! And sorrow and irony and seclusion are all that
remain for him who has seen more of antiquity than this.

97
If we change a single word of Lord Bacon's we may say . infimarum Græcorum
virtutum apud philologos laus est, mediarum admiratio, supremarum sensus
nullus.

98

      How can anyone glorify and venerate a whole people!

It is the individuals that count, even in the case of the Greeks.

99
There is a great deal of caricature even about the Greeks · for example,
the careful attention devoted by the Cynics to their own happiness.

100
The only thing that interests me is the relationship of the people
considered as a whole to the training of the single individuals · and in
the case of the Greeks there are some factors which are very favourable
to the development of the individual. They do not, however, arise from
the goodwill of the people, but from the struggle between the
evil instincts.

By means of happy inventions and discoveries, we can train the individual
differently and more highly than has yet been done by mere chance
and accident. There are still hopes . the breeding of superior men.

101

                            The Greeks are
      interesting and quite disproportionately important because they
had such a host of great individuals.

How was that possible? This point must be studied.

102
The history of Greece has hitherto always been written optimistically.

103
Selected points from antiquity: the power, fire, and swing of the
feeling the ancients had for music (through the first Pythian Ode), purity
in their historical sense, gratitude for the blessings of culture, the
fire and corn feasts.

The ennoblement of jealousy: the Greeks the most jealous
nation.

Suicide, hatred of old age, of penury. Empedocles on sexual love.

      
      104

Nimble and healthy bodies, a clear and deep sense for the observation
of everyday matters, manly freedom, belief in good racial descent
and good upbringing, warlike virtues, jealousy in the [Greek:
aristeyein], delight in the arts, respect for leisure, a sense for
free individuality, for the symbolical.

105
The spiritual culture of Greece an aberration of the amazing political
impulse towards [Greek: aristeyein]. The [Greek: polis] utterly
opposed to new education; culture nevertheless existed.

106
When I say that, all things considered, the Greeks were more moral
than modern men what do I mean by that? From what we can perceive
of the activities of their soul, it is clear that they had no shame,
they had no bad conscience. They were more sincere, open-hearted,
and passionate, as artists are; they exhibited a kind of child-like
_naiveté_. It thus came about that even in all their evil actions
they had a dash of purity about them, something approaching the
holy. A remarkable number of individualities: might there not have
been a higher morality in that?
When we recollect that character develops slowly, what can it be
that, in the long run, breeds individuality? Perhaps vanity,
emulation?
Possibly. Little inclination for conventional things.
107 
The Greeks as the geniuses among the nations.
Their childlike nature, credulousness.
Passionate. Quite unconsciously they lived in such a way as to
procreate genius. Enemies of shyness and dulness. Pain. Injudicious
actions. The nature of their intuitive insight into misery, despite
their bright and genial temperament. Profoundness in their apprehension
and glorifying of everyday things (fire, agriculture). Mendacious,
unhistorical. The significance of the [Greek: polis] in culture
instinctively recognised, favourable as a centre and periphery for
great men (the facility of surveying a community, and also the
possibility of addressing it as a whole). Individuality raised to
the highest power through the [Greek:
polis]. Envy, jealousy, as among gifted people.

108
The Greeks were lacking in sobriety and caution. Over-sensibility,
abnormally active condition of the brain and the nerves; impetuosity
and fervour of the will.

109
"Invariably to see the general in the particular is the distinguishing
characteristic of genius," says Schopenhauer. Think of Pindar,
&c.--"[Greek: Sophrosynae]," according to Schopenhauer, has its
roots in the clearness with which the Greeks saw into themselves
and into the world at large, and thence became conscious of
themselves.
The "wide separation of will and intellect" indicates the genius,
and is seen in the Greeks.
"The melancholy associated with genius is due to the fact that the
will to live, the more clearly it is illuminated by the contemplating
intellect, appreciates all the more clearly the misery of its
condition," says Schopenhauer. _Cf._ the Greeks.

110
The moderation of the Greeks in their sensual luxury, eating, and
drinking, and their pleasure therein; the Olympic plays and their
worship . that shows what they were.
In the case of the genius, "the intellect will point out the faults
which are seldom absent in an instrument that is put to a use for
which it was not intended."
"The will is often left in the lurch at an awkward moment: hence
genius, where real life is concerned, is more or less unpractical--its
behaviour often reminds us of madness." 

111
We contrast the Romans, with their matter-of-fact earnestness, with
the genial Greeks! Schopenhauer: "The stern, practical, earnest
mode of life which the Romans called _gravitas_ presupposes that
the intellect does not forsake the service of the will in order to
roam far off among things that have no connection with the will."
112
It would have been much better if the Greeks had been conquered by
the Persians instead of by the Romans.

113
The characteristics of the gifted man who is lacking in genius are
to be found in the average Hellene--all the dangerous characteristics
of such a disposition and character.

114
Genius makes tributaries of all partly-talented people: hence the
Persians themselves sent their ambassadors to the Greek oracles.
115
The happiest lot that can fall to the genius is to exchange doing
and acting for leisure; and this was something the Greeks knew how
to value.
The blessings of labour! _Nugari_ was the Roman name for all the
exertions and aspirations of the Greeks.
No happy course of life is open to the genius, he stands in
contradiction to his age and must perforce struggle with it. Thus
the Greeks . they instinctively made the utmost exertions to secure
a safe refuge for themselves (in the _polis_). Finally, everything
went to pieces in politics. They were compelled to take up a stand
against their enemies . this became ever more and more difficult,
and at last impossible.

116
Greek culture is based on the lordship of a small class over four
to nine times their number of slaves. Judged by mere numbers, Greece
was a country inhabited by barbarians. How can the ancients be
thought to be humane? There was a great contrast between the genius
and the breadwinner, the half-beast of burden. The Greeks believed
in a racial distinction. Schopenhauer wonders why Nature did not
take it into her head to invent two entirely separate species of
men.
The Greeks bear the same relation to the barbarians "as free-moving
or winged animals do to the barnacles which cling tightly to the
rocks and must await what fate chooses to send them"--Schopenhauer's
simile.

117
The Greeks as the only people of genius in the history of the
world.
Such they are even when considered as learners; for they understand
this best of all, and can do more than merely trim and adorn
themselves with what they have borrowed, as did the Romans.
The constitution of the _polis_ is a Phoenician invention, even
this has been imitated by the Hellenes. For a long time they dabbled
in everything, like joyful dilettanti. Aphrodite is likewise
Phoenician.
Neither do they disavow what has come to them through immigration
and does not originally belong to their own country.

118
The happy and comfortable constitution of the politico-social
position must not be sought among the Greeks . that is a goal which
dazzles the eyes of our dreamers of the future! It was, on the
contrary, dreadful; for this is a matter that must be judged according
to the following standard: the more spirit, the more suffering (as
the Greeks themselves prove). Whence it follows, the more stupidity,
the more comfort. The philistine of culture is the most comfortable
creature the sun has ever shone upon: and he is doubtless also in
possession of the corresponding stupidity.

119
The Greek _polis_ and the [Greek: aien aristeyein] grew up out of
mutual enmity. Hellenic and philanthropic are contrary adjectives,
although the ancients flattered themselves sufficiently.
Homer is, in the world of the Hellenic discord, the pan-Hellenic
Greek.
The [Greek: "agon"] of the Greeks is also manifested in the Symposium
in the shape of witty conversation.

120
Wanton, mutual annihilation inevitable: so long as a single _polis_
wished to exist--its envy for everything superior to itself, its
cupidity, the disorder of its customs, the enslavement of the women,
lack of conscience in the keeping of oaths, in murder, and in cases
of violent death.
Tremendous power of self-control: for example in a man like Socrates,
who was capable of everything evil.

121
Its noble sense of order and systematic arrangement had rendered
the Athenian state immortal--The ten strategists in Athens! Foolish!
Too big a sacrifice on the altar of jealousy.

122
The recreations of the Spartans consisted of feasting, hunting, and
making war · their every-day life was too hard. On the whole,
however, their state is merely a caricature of the polls, a corruption
of Hellas.
The breeding of the complete Spartan--but what was there great about
him that his breeding should have required such a brutal state!Moore is an exuberance of involuntary power.  His
facility of production lessens the effect of, and hangs as a dead weight
upon, what he produces.  His levity at last oppresses.  The infinite
delight he takes in such an infinite number of things, creates
indifference in minds less susceptible of pleasure than his own.  He
exhausts attention by being inexhaustible.  His variety cloys; his
rapidity dazzles and distracts the sight.  The graceful ease with which
he lends himself to every subject, the genial spirit with which he
indulges in every sentiment, prevents him from giving their full force
to the masses of things, from connecting them into a whole.  He wants
intensity, strength, and grandeur.  His mind does not brood over the
great and permanent; it glances over the surfaces, the first impressions
of things, instead of grappling with the deep-rooted prejudices of the
mind, its inveterate habits, and that  "perilous stuff that weighs upon
the heart." His pen, as it is rapid and fanciful, wants momentum and
passion.  It requires the same principle to make us thoroughly like
poetry, that makes us like ourselves so well, the feeling of continued
identity.  The impressions of Mr. Moore's poetry are detached, desultory,
and physical.  Its gorgeous colours brighten and fade like the rainbow's.
Its sweetness evaporates like the effluvia exhaled from beds of flowers!
His gay laughing style, which relates to the immediate pleasures of love
or wine, is better than his sentimental and romantic vein.  His Irish
melodies are not free from affectation and a certain sickliness of
pretension.  His serious descriptions are apt to run into flowery
tenderness.  His pathos sometimes melts into a mawkish sensibility, or
crystallizes into all the prettinesses of allegorical language, and
glittering hardness of external imagery.  But he has wit at will, and of
the first quality.  His satirical and burlesque poetry is his best: it is
first-rate.  His Twopenny Post-Bag is a perfect "nest of spicery"; where
the Cayenne is not spared.  The politician there sharpens the poet's pen.
In this too, our bard resembles the bee--he has its honey and its
sting.

Mr. Moore ought not to have written Lalla Rookh, even for three
thousand guineas.  His fame is worth more than that.  He should have
minded the advice of Fadladeen.  It is not, however, a failure, so much
as an evasion and a consequent disappointment of public expectation.  He
should have left it to others to break conventions with nations, and
faith with the world.  He should, at any rate, have kept his with the
public.  Lalla Rookh is not what people wanted to see whether Mr. Moore
could do; namely, whether he could write a long epic poem.  It is four
short tales.  The interest, however, is often high-wrought and tragic,
but the execution still turns to the effeminate and voluptuous side.
Fortitude of mind is the first requisite of a tragic or epic writer.
Happiness of nature and felicity of genius are the pre-eminent
characteristics of the bard of Erin.  If he is not perfectly contented
with what he is, all the world beside is.  He had no temptation to risk
any thing in adding to the love and admiration of his age, and more than
one country.

      "Therefore to be possessed with double pomp,
      To guard a title that was rich before,
      To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
      To throw a perfume on the violet,
      To smooth the ice, or add another hue
      Unto the rainbow, or with taper light
      To seek the beauteous eye of heav'n to garnish,
      Is wasteful and ridiculous excess."

The same might be said of Mr. Moore's seeking to bind an epic crown, or
the shadow of one, round his other laurels.

If Mr. Moore has not suffered enough personally, Lord Byron (judging
from the tone of his writings) might be thought to have suffered too
much to be a truly great poet.  If Mr. Moore lays himself too open to all
the various impulses of things, the outward shews of earth and sky, to
every breath that blows, to every stray sentiment that crosses his
fancy; Lord Byron shuts himself up too much in the impenetrable gloom of
his own thoughts, and buries the natural light of things in "nook
monastic." The Giaour, the Corsair, Childe Harold, are all the same
person, and they are apparently all himself.  The everlasting repetition
of one subject, the same dark ground of fiction, with the darker colours
of the poet's mind spread over it, the unceasing accumulation of horrors
on horror's head, steels the mind against the sense of pain, as
inevitably as the unwearied Siren sounds and luxurious monotony of Mr.
Moore's poetry make it inaccessible to pleasure.  Lord Byron's poetry is
as morbid as Mr. Moore's is careless and dissipated.  He has more depth
of passion, more force and impetuosity, but the passion is always of the
same unaccountable character, at once violent and sullen, fierce and
gloomy.  It is not the passion of a mind struggling with misfortune, or
the hopelessness of its desires, but of a mind preying upon itself, and
disgusted with, or indifferent to all other things.  There is nothing
less poetical than this sort of unaccommodating selfishness.  There is
nothing more repulsive than this sort of ideal absorption of all the
interests of others, of the good and ills of life, in the ruling passion
and moody abstraction of a single mind, as if it would make itself the
centre of the universe, and there was nothing worth cherishing but its
intellectual diseases.  It is like a cancer, eating into the heart of
poetry.  But still there is power; and power rivets attention and forces
admiration.  "He hath a demon:" and that is the next thing to being full
of the God.  His brow collects the scattered gloom: his eye flashes livid
fire that withers and consumes.  But still we watch the progress of the
scathing bolt with interest, and mark the ruin it leaves behind with
awe.  Within the contracted range of his imagination, he has great unity
and truth of keeping.  He chooses elements and agents congenial to his
mind, the dark and glittering ocean, the frail bark hurrying before the
storm, pirates and men that "house on the wild sea with wild usages." He
gives the tumultuous eagerness of action, and the fixed despair of
thought.  In vigour of style and force of conception, he in one sense
surpasses every writer of the present day.  His indignant apothegms are
like oracles of misanthropy.  He who wishes for "a curse to kill with,"
may find it in Lord Byron's writings.  Yet he has beauty lurking
underneath his strength, tenderness sometimes joined with the phrenzy of
despair.  A flash of golden light sometimes follows from a stroke of his
pencil, like a falling meteor.  The flowers that adorn his poetry bloom
over charnel-houses and the grave!

There is one subject on which Lord Byron is fond of writing, on which
I wish he would not write--Buonaparte.  Not that I quarrel with his
writing for him, or against him, but with his writing both for him and
against him.  What right has he to do this? Buonaparte's character, be it
what else it may, does not change every hour according to his Lordship's
varying humour.  He is not a pipe for Fortune's finger, or for his
Lordship's Muse, to play what stop she pleases on.  Why should Lord Byron
now laud him to the skies in the hour of his success, and then peevishly
wreak his disappointment on the God of his idolatry? The man he writes
of does not rise or fall with circumstances: but "looks on tempests and
is never shaken." Besides, he is a subject for history, and not for
poetry.

      "Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,
        But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
      And in themselves their pride lies buried;
        For at a frown they in their glory die.
      The painful warrior, famoused for fight,
        After a thousand victories once foil'd,
      Is from the book of honour razed quite,
        And all the rest forgot for which he toil'd."

If Lord Byron will write any thing more on this hazardous theme, let him
take these lines of Shakspeare for his guide, and finish them in the
spirit of the original--they will then be worthy of the subject.

Walter Scott is the most popular of all the poets of the present day,
and deservedly so.  He describes that which is most easily and generally
understood with more vivacity and effect than any body else.  He has no
excellences, either of a lofty or recondite kind, which lie beyond the
reach of the most ordinary capacity to find out; but he has all the good
qualities which all the world agree to understand.  His style is clear,
flowing, and transparent: his sentiments, of which his style is an easy
and natural medium, are common to him with his readers.  He has none of
Mr. Wordsworth's _idiosyncracy_.  He differs from his readers only in a
greater range of knowledge and facility of expression.  His poetry
belongs to the class of _improvisatori_ poetry.  It has neither depth,
height, nor breadth in it; neither uncommon strength, nor uncommon
refinement of thought, sentiment, or language.  It has no originality.
But if this author has no research, no moving power in his own breast,
he relies with the greater safety and success on the force of his
subject.  He selects a story such as is sure to please, full of
incidents, characters, peculiar manners, costume, and scenery; and he
tells it in a way that can offend no one.  He never wearies or
disappoints you.  He is communicative and garrulous; but he is not his
own hero.  He never obtrudes himself on your notice to prevent your
seeing the subject.  What passes in the poem, passes much as it would
have done in reality.  The author has little or nothing to do with it.
Mr. Scott has great intuitive power of fancy, great vividness of pencil
in placing external objects and events before the eye.  The force of his
mind is picturesque, rather than _moral_.  He gives more of the features
of nature than the soul of passion.  He conveys the distinct outlines and
visible changes in outward objects, rather than "their mortal
consequences." He is very inferior to Lord Byron in intense passion, to
Moore in delightful fancy, to Mr. Wordsworth in profound sentiment: but
he has more picturesque power than any of them; that is, he places the
objects themselves, about which _they_ might feel and think, in a much
more striking point of view, with greater variety of dress and attitude,
and with more local truth of colouring.  His imagery is Gothic and
grotesque.  The manners and actions have the interest and curiosity
belonging to a wild country and a distant period of time.  Few
descriptions have a more complete reality, a more striking appearance of
life and motion, than that of the warriors in the Lady of the Lake, who
start up at the command of Rhoderic Dhu, from their concealment under
the fern, and disappear again in an instant.  The Lay of the Last
Minstrel and Marmion are the first, and perhaps the best of his works.
The Goblin Page, in the first of these, is a very interesting and
inscrutable little personage.  In reading these poems, I confess I am a
little disconcerted, in turning over the page, to find Mr. Westall's
pictures, which always seem _fac-similes_ of the persons represented,
with ancient costume and a theatrical air.  This may be a compliment to
Mr. Westall, but it is not one to Walter Scott.  The truth is, there is a
modern air in the midst of the antiquarian research of Mr. Scott's
poetry.  It is history or tradition in masquerade.  Not only the crust of
old words and images is worn off with time,--the substance is grown
comparatively light and worthless.  The forms are old and uncouth; but
the spirit is effeminate and frivolous.  This is a deduction from the
praise I have given to his pencil for extreme fidelity, though it has
been no obstacle to its drawing-room success.  He has just hit the town
between the romantic and the fashionable; and between the two, secured
all classes of readers on his side.  In a word, I conceive that he is to
the great poet, what an excellent mimic is to a great actor.  There is no
determinate impression left on the mind by reading his poetry.  It has no
results.  The reader rises up from the perusal with new images and
associations, but he remains the same man that he was before.  A great
mind is one that moulds the minds of others.  Mr. Scott has put the
Border Minstrelsy and scattered traditions of the country into easy,
animated verse.  But the Notes to his poems are just as entertaining as
the poems themselves, and his poems are only entertaining.

Mr. Wordsworth is the most original poet now living.  He is the
reverse of Walter Scott in his defects and excellences.  He has nearly
all that the other wants, and wants all that the other possesses.  His
poetry is not external, but internal; it does not depend upon tradition,
or story, or old song; he furnishes it from his own mind, and is his own
subject.  He is the poet of mere sentiment.  Of many of the Lyrical
Ballads, it is not possible to speak in terms of too high praise, such
as Hart-leap Well, the Banks of the Wye, Poor Susan, parts of the
Leech-gatherer, the lines to a Cuckoo, to a Daisy, the Complaint,
several of the Sonnets, and a hundred others of inconceivable beauty, of
perfect originality and pathos.  They open a finer and deeper vein of
thought and feeling than any poet in modern times has done, or
attempted.  He has produced a deeper impression, and on a smaller circle,
than any other of his contemporaries.  His powers have been mistaken by
the age, nor does he exactly understand them himself.  He cannot form a
whole.  He has not the constructive faculty.  He can give only the fine
tones of thought, drawn from his mind by accident or nature, like the
sounds drawn from the AEolian harp by the wandering gale.--He is
totally deficient in all the machinery of poetry.  His _Excursion_, taken
as a whole, notwithstanding the noble materials thrown away in it, is a
proof of this.  The line labours, the sentiment moves slow, but the poem
stands stock-still.  The reader makes no way from the first line to the
last.  It is more than any thing in the world like Robinson Crusoe's
boat, which would have been an excellent good boat, and would have
carried him to the other side of the globe, but that he could not get it
out of the sand where it stuck fast.  I did what little I could to help
to launch it at the time, but it would not do.  I am not, however, one of
those who laugh at the attempts or failures of men of genius.  It is not
my way to cry "Long life to the conqueror." Success and desert are not
with me synonymous terms; and the less Mr. Wordsworth's general merits
have been understood, the more necessary is it to insist upon them.  This
is not the place to repeat what I have already said on the subject.  The
reader may turn to it in the Round Table.  I do not think, however, there
is any thing in the larger poem equal to many of the detached pieces in
the Lyrical Ballads.  As Mr. Wordsworth's poems have been little known to
the public, or chiefly through garbled extracts from them, I will here
give an entire poem (one that has always been a favourite with me), that
the reader may know what it is that the admirers of this author find to
be delighted with in his poetry.  Those who do not feel the beauty and
the force of it, may save themselves the trouble of inquiring farther.

HART-LEAP WELL.

      The knight had ridden down from Wensley moor
        With the slow motion of a summer's cloud;
      He turned aside towards a vassal's door,
        And, "Bring another horse!" he cried aloud.

      "Another horse!"--That shout the vassal heard,
        And saddled his best steed, a comely gray;
      Sir Walter mounted him; he was the third
        Which he had mounted on that glorious day.

      Joy sparkled in the prancing courser's eyes:
        The horse and horseman are a happy pair;
      But, though Sir Walter like a falcon flies,
        There is a doleful silence in the air.

      A rout this morning left Sir Walter's hall,
        That as they galloped made the echoes roar;
      But horse and man are vanished, one and all;
        Such race, I think, was never seen before.

      Sir Walter, restless as a veering wind,
        Calls to the few tired dogs that yet remain:
      Brach, Swift, and Music, noblest of their kind,
        Follow, and up the weary mountain strain.

      The knight hallooed, he chid and cheered them on
        With suppliant gestures and upbraidings stern;
      But breath and eye-sight fail; and, one by one,
        The dogs are stretched among the mountain fern.

      Where is the throng, the tumult of the race?
        The bugles that so joyfully were blown?
        --This chase it looks not like an earthly chase;
        Sir Walter and the hart are left alone.

      The poor hart toils along the mountain side;
        I will not stop to tell how far he fled,
      Nor will I mention by what death he died;
        But now the knight beholds him lying dead.

      Dismounting then, he leaned against a thorn;
        He had no follower, dog, nor man, nor boy:
      He neither smacked his whip, nor blew his horn,
        But gazed upon the spoil with silent joy.

      Close to the thorn on which Sir Walter leaned,
        Stood his dumb partner in this glorious act;
      Weak as a lamb the hour that it is yeaned;
        And foaming like a mountain cataract.

      Upon his side the hart was lying stretched:
        His nose half-touched a spring beneath a hill,
      And with the last deep groan his breath had fetched
        The waters of the spring were trembling still.

      And now, too happy for repose or rest,
        (Was never man in such a joyful case!)
      Sir Walter walked all round, north, south, and west,
        And gazed, and gazed upon that darling place.

      And climbing up the hill--(it was at least
        Nine roods of sheer ascent) Sir Walter found,
      Three several hoof-marks which the hunted beast
        Had left imprinted on the verdant ground.

      Sir Walter wiped his face and cried, "Till now
        Such sight was never seen by living eyes:
      Three leaps have borne him from this lofty brow,
        Down to the very fountain where he lies.

      I'll build a pleasure-house upon this spot,
        And a small arbour, made for rural joy;
      'Twill be the traveller's shed, the pilgrim's cot,
        A place of love for damsels that are coy.

      A cunning artist will I have to frame
        A bason for that fountain in the dell;
      And they, who do make mention of the same
        From this day forth, shall call it HART-LEAP WELL.

      And, gallant brute! to make thy praises known,
        Another monument shall here be raised;
      Three several pillars, each a rough-hewn stone,
        And planted where thy hoofs the turf have grazed.

      And, in the summer-time when days are long,
        I will come hither with my paramour;
      And with the dancers, and the minstrel's song,
        We will make merry in that pleasant bower.

      Till the foundations of the mountains fail,
        My mansion with its arbour shall endure;--
      The joy of them who till the fields of Swale,
        And them who dwell among the woods of Ure!"

      Then home he went, and left the hart, stone-dead,
        With breathless nostrils stretched above the spring.
      --Soon did the knight perform what he had said,
        And far and wide the fame thereof did ring.

      Ere thrice the moon into her port had steered,
        A cup of stone received the living well;
      Three pillars of rude stone Sir Walter reared,
        And built a house of pleasure in the dell.

      And near the fountain, flowers of stature tall
        With trailing plants and trees were intertwined,--
      Which soon composed a little sylvan hall,
        A leafy shelter from the sun and wind.

      And thither, when the summer-days were long,
        Sir Walter journeyed with his paramour;
      And with the dancers and the minstrel's song
        Made merriment within that pleasant bower.

      The knight, Sir Walter, died in course of time,
        And his bones lie in his paternal vale.--
      But there is matter for a second rhyme,
        And I to this would add another tale."

PART SECOND.

      "The moving accident is not my trade:
        To freeze the blood I have no ready arts:
      'Tis my delight, alone in summer shade,
        To pipe a simple song for thinking hearts.

      As I from Hawes to Richmond did repair,
        It chanced that I saw standing in a dell
      Three aspens at three corners of a square,
        And one, not four yards distant, near a well.

      What this imported I could ill divine:
        And, pulling now the rein my horse to stop,
      I saw three pillars standing in a line,
        The last stone pillar on a dark hill-top.

      The trees were gray, with neither arms nor head;
        Half-wasted the square mound of tawny green;
      So that you just might say, as then I said,
        "Here in old time the hand of man hath been."

      I looked upon the hill both far and near,
        More doleful place did never eye survey;
      It seemed as if the spring-time came not here,
        And Nature here were willing to decay.

      I stood in various thoughts and fancies lost,
        When one, who was in shepherd's garb attired,
      Came up the hollow:--Him did I accost,
        And what this place might be I then inquired.

      The shepherd stopped, and that same story told
        Which in my former rhyme I have rehearsed.
      "A jolly place," said he, "in times of old!
        But something ails it now; the spot is curst.

      You see these lifeless stumps of aspen wood--
        Some say that they are beeches, others elms--
      These were the bower; and here a mansion stood,
        The finest palace of a hundred realms!

      The arbour does its own condition tell;
        You see the stones, the fountain, and the stream;
      But as to the great lodge! you might as well
        Hunt half a day for a forgotten dream.

      There's neither dog nor heifer, horse nor sheep,
        Will wet his lips within that cup of stone;
      And oftentimes, when all are fast asleep,
        This water doth send forth a dolorous groan.

      Some say that here a murder has been done,
        And blood cries out for blood: but, for my part,
      I've guessed, when I've been sitting in the sun,
        That it was all for that unhappy hart.

      What thoughts must through the creature's brain have passed!
        Even from the top-most stone, upon the steep,
      Are but three bounds--and look, Sir, at this last--
        --O Master! it has been a cruel leap.

      For thirteen hours he ran a desperate race;
        And in my simple mind we cannot tell
      What cause the hart might have to love this place,
        And come and make his death-bed near the well.

      Here on the grass perhaps asleep he sank,
        Lulled by this fountain in the summer-tide;
      This water was perhaps the first he drank
        When he had wandered from his mother's side.

      In April here beneath the scented thorn
        He heard the birds their morning carols sing;
      And he, perhaps, for aught we know, was born
        Not half a furlong from that self-same spring.

      But now here's neither grass nor pleasant shade;
        The sun on drearier hollow never shone;
      So will it be, as I have often said,
        Till trees, and stones, and fountain all are gone."

      "Gray-headed Shepherd, thou hast spoken well;
        Small difference lies between thy creed and mine:
      This beast not unobserved by Nature fell;
        His death was mourned by sympathy divine.

      The Being, that is in the clouds and air,
        That is in the green leaves among the groves,
      Maintains a deep, and reverential care
        For the unoffending creatures whom he loves.

      The pleasure-house is dust:--behind, before,
        This is no common waste, no common gloom;
      But Nature, in due course of time, once more
        Shall here put on her beauty and her bloom.

      She leaves these objects to a slow decay,
        That what we are, and have been, may be known;
      But at the coming of the milder day,
        These monuments shall all be overgrown.

      One lesson, Shepherd, let us two divide,
        Taught both by what she shews, and what conceals,
      Never to blend our pleasure or our pride
        With sorrow of the meanest thing that feels."

Mr. Wordsworth is at the head of that which has been denominated the
Lake school of poetry; a school which, with all my respect for it, I do
not think sacred from criticism or exempt from faults, of some of which
faults I shall speak with becoming frankness; for I do not see that the
liberty of the press ought to be shackled, or freedom of speech
curtailed, to screen either its revolutionary or renegado extravagances.
Señor Sagasta seems to be a man of his word. He stated that if he were
called to take charge of the affairs of Spain his first act should
be to recall Weyler, and he has not swerved from his determination.

As we told you last week, General Weyler sent a despatch to Señor Sagasta
announcing that he would not resign his office, and offering his services
to the new Government.

The day after the despatch was received, a cabinet meeting was held, at
which it was decided that General Weyler must be recalled.

The matter was therefore arranged with the utmost politeness on both
sides.

General Weyler in his message stated that it was impossible for him to
offer his resignation to the ministry, because he was not merely acting
as the Governor of Cuba, but as Commander-in-Chief of an army engaged
in war, and in the last capacity he could never allow it to be said of
him that he had offered to resign while in the face of an enemy.

He added that he knew that he had the approval of the people of
Spain and of some of the parties in power, but that he would also like
to feel that he had the confidence of the ministers. This confidence, he
declared, would enable him to finish the war, which he stated to be
almost at an end.

This very artful letter had no effect on either Sagasta or the Government.
The sentence about the approval of the people of Spain and of some of
the parties in power was undoubtedly meant as a hint to the Prime
Minister that the General had powerful friends, and that it would not be
a wise thing to interfere with him.

Sagasta, however, replied to him, that while the ministry recognized
and valued the work he had done for Spain, a change was considered
desirable, and so he had decided to recall him.

When the news of Sagasta's action reached the people, there was much
excitement both in Spain and Cuba.

In Spain it was reported that General Weyler meant to defy the
Government, and keep his post in spite of Sagasta's orders, and
that he had threatened that he would use his influence with the soldiers,
and carry them with him over to the Carlists, if Sagasta did not
instantly withdraw the recall.

The Cubans, on their part, were panic-stricken. They have such a dread
of Weyler that they expected he would revenge himself on them for
his disgrace.

In Havana some of the Cubans hired armed men to protect them from
attack, and others crowded the steamship offices in an endeavor to escape
from the country before the catastrophe came.

The fears of the people were, however, set at rest by a statement from
the Captain-General that he would never be guilty of any act which
could cause his Government trouble. He therefore hastened to assure Señor
Sagasta of his willingness to obey the wishes of the Government, and
gave up his command in Cuba.

He asked permission to leave the island at once, but Sagasta cabled
to him that he must remain where he was until Oct. 20th.
General Ramon Blanco will sail for Cuba on Oct. 15th.
The newly appointed commander of the forces in Cuba was Governor-General
of the Philippine Islands at the outbreak of the war there, but was
recalled for political reasons.
Unfortunately, his record for cruelty is not far behind Weyler's,
and so the savage character of the war in Cuba is not likely to be
changed by the change of commanders.
The Cubans know Barman Blanco well. He was Captain-General of the
island in 1879, when the second insurrection against the Spaniards
started.
Under him was Camilo Polavieja, who as Governor of the Philippines
has made for himself an unenviable reputation for cruelty.
To these two men was intrusted the task of suppressing the revolt.
The insurrection of 1879 was not a very serious affair; the Cubans
as a body took no part in it; but notwithstanding this fact, which
was well known to the authorities, fully fifteen hundred men of
position in Cuba were arrested, and many of them put to death without
being tried or given an opportunity to prove their innocence.
The Cubans have not forgotten this, and they have little to hope
from General Blanco, especially as he has announced his intention
of dealing with the present trouble in the same manner that he did
with the revolt of 1879.
He will find, however, that matters have changed considerably since
1879.They scorned "degrees, priority, and place,
insisture, course, proportion, season, form, office, and custom in all
line of order":--the distinctions of birth, the vicissitudes of
fortune, did not enter into their abstracted, lofty, and levelling
calculation of human nature.  He who was more than man, with them was
none.  They claimed kindred only with the commonest of the people:
peasants, pedlars, and village-barbers were their oracles and bosom
friends.  Their poetry, in the extreme to which it professedly tended,
and was in effect carried, levels all distinctions of nature and
society; has "no figures nor no fantasies," which the prejudices of
superstition or the customs of the world draw in the brains of men; "no
trivial fond records" of all that has existed in the history of past
ages; it has no adventitious pride, pomp, or circumstance, to set it
off; "the marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe;" neither tradition,
reverence, nor ceremony, "that to great ones 'longs": it breaks in
pieces the golden images of poetry, and defaces its armorial bearings,
to melt them down in the mould of common humanity or of its own upstart
self-sufficiency.  They took the same method in their new-fangled "metre
ballad-mongering" scheme, which Rousseau did in his prose paradoxes--
of exciting attention by reversing the established standards of opinion
and estimation in the world.  They were for bringing poetry back to its
primitive simplicity and state of nature, as he was for bringing society
back to the savage state: so that the only thing remarkable left in the
world by this change, would be the persons who had produced it.  A
thorough adept in this school of poetry and philanthropy is jealous of
all excellence but his own.  He does not even like to share his
reputation with his subject; for he would have it all proceed from his
own power and originality of mind.  Such a one is slow to admire any
thing that is admirable; feels no interest in what is most interesting
to others, no grandeur in any thing grand, no beauty in anything
beautiful.  He tolerates only what he himself creates; he sympathizes
only with what can enter into no competition with him, with "the bare
trees and mountains bare, and grass in the green field." He sees nothing
but himself and the universe.  He hates all greatness and all pretensions
to it, whether well or ill-founded.  His egotism is in some respects a
madness; for he scorns even the admiration of himself, thinking it a
presumption in any one to suppose that he has taste or sense enough to
understand him.  He hates all science and all art; he hates chemistry, he
hates conchology; he hates Voltaire; he hates Sir Isaac Newton; he hates
wisdom; he hates wit; he hates metaphysics, which he says are
unintelligible, and yet he would be thought to understand them; he hates
prose; he hates all poetry but his own; he hates the dialogues in
Shakespeare; he hates music, dancing, and painting; he hates Rubens, he
hates Rembrandt; he hates Raphael, he hates Titian; he hates Vandyke; he
hates the antique; he hates the Apollo Belvidere; he hates the Venus of
Medicis.  This is the reason that so few people take an interest in his
writings, because he takes an interest in nothing that others do!--The
effect has been perceived as something odd; but the cause or principle
has never been distinctly traced to its source before, as far as I know.
The proofs are to be found every where--in Mr. Southey's Botany Bay
Eclogues, in his book of Songs and Sonnets, his Odes and Inscriptions,
so well parodied in the Anti-Jacobin Review, in his Joan of Arc, and
last, though not least, in his Wat Tyler:

      "When Adam delved, and Eve span,
      Where was then the gentleman?"

(--or the poet laureat either, we may ask?)--In Mr. Coleridge's Ode to
an Ass's Foal, in his Lines to Sarah, his Religious Musings; and in his
and Mr. Wordsworth's Lyrical Ballads, _passim_.

Of Mr. Southey's larger epics, I have but a faint recollection at
this distance of time, but all that I remember of them is mechanical and
extravagant, heavy and superficial.  His affected, disjointed style is
well imitated in the Rejected Addresses.  The difference between him and
Sir Richard Blackmore seems to be, that the one is heavy and the other
light, the one solemn and the other pragmatical, the one phlegmatic and
the other flippant; and that there is no Gay in the present time to give
a Catalogue Raisonne of the performances of the living undertaker of
epics.  Kehama is a loose sprawling figure, such as we see cut out of
wood or paper, and pulled or jerked with wire or thread, to make sudden
and surprising motions, without meaning, grace, or nature in them.  By
far the best of his works are some of his shorter personal compositions,
in which there is an ironical mixture of the quaint and serious, such as
his lines on a picture of Gaspar Poussin, the fine tale of Gualberto,
his Description of a Pig, and the Holly-tree, which is an affecting,
beautiful, and modest retrospect on his own character.  (_c_) His
intention of earning a living.

In short, ninety-nine philologists out of a hundred _should_ not be
philologists at all.

3

The
more
      strict religions require that men shall
            look upon their
      activity simply as one means of carrying out
            a metaphysical
      scheme: an unfortunate choice of
      calling may then be explained as a test of the individual.

      Religions keep their eyes fixed only upon the
            salvation of the
      individual . whether he is a slave or a free
            man, a merchant or
      a scholar, his aim in life has nothing to
      do with his calling, so that a wrong choice is not such a very
great piece of unhappiness.

      Let this serve as a crumb of comfort for
            philologists
      in general; but true philologists
            stand in need
      of a better understanding: what will result
      from a science which is "gone in for" by ninety-nine such people?

      The thoroughly unfitted majority draw up the
            rules of the science
      in accordance with their own capacities
            and inclinations;
      and in this way they tyrannise over the
      hundredth, the only capable one among them.

      If they have the training of others in their
            hands they will train
      them consciously or unconsciously
            after their own
      image . what then becomes of the classicism
      of the Greeks and Romans?

      
            The points to be proved
      are--
            (_a_) The disparity
      between philologists and the ancients.
      

      (_b_) The inability of the philologist
            to train his pupils,
      even with the help of the ancients.
            
      (_c_) The falsifying of the science by
      the (incapacity of the) majority, the wrong
requirements held in view; the renunciation of the real aim of
this science.

4
All this affects the sources of our present philology: a sceptical
and melancholy attitude.

But how otherwise are philologists to be produced?

The imitation of antiquity: is not this a principle which has been
refuted by this time?

The flight from actuality to the ancients: does not this tend to
falsify our conception of antiquity?

5
We are still behindhand in one type of contemplation: to understand how
the greatest productions of the intellect have a dreadful and evil background
. the sceptical type of contemplation. Greek antiquity is now
investigated as the most beautiful example of life.

        
      As man assumes a sceptical and melancholy
      attitude towards his life's calling,
      so we must sceptically examine the
      highest life's calling of a nation:
      in order that we may understand what
      life is.
      6
My words of consolation apply particularly to the single tyrannised
individual out of a hundred: such exceptional ones should simply
treat all the unenlightened majorities as their subordinates; and
they should in the same way take advantage of the prejudice, which
is still widespread, in favour of classical instruction--they need
many helpers.
But they must have a clear perception of what their actual goal
is.

7
Philology as the science of antiquity does not, of course, endure
for ever; its elements are not inexhaustible. What cannot be
exhausted, however, is the ever-new adaptation of one's age to
antiquity; the comparison of the two. If we make it our task to
understand our own age better by means of antiquity, then our task
will be an everlasting one.--This is the antinomy of philology:
people have always endeavoured to understand antiquity by means of
the present--and shall the present now be understood by means of
antiquity? Better: people have explained antiquity to themselves
out of their own experiences; and from the amount of antiquity thus
acquired they have assessed the value of their experiences.Each spake words of high disdain
      And insult to his heart's best brother,
      And parted ne'er to meet again!
      But neither ever found another
      To free the hollow heart from paining--

        They stood aloof, the scars remaining,
      Like cliffs which had been rent asunder:
      A dreary sea now flows between,
      But neither heat, nor frost, nor thunder,
      Shall wholly do away I ween
      The marks of that which once hath been.

        Sir Leoline a moment's space
      Stood gazing on the damsel's face;
      And the youthful lord of Tryermaine
      Came back upon his heart again."

It might seem insidious if I were to praise his ode entitled Fire,
Famine, and Slaughter, as an effusion of high poetical enthusiasm, and
strong political feeling.  His Sonnet to Schiller conveys a fine
compliment to the author of the Robbers, and an equally fine idea of the
state of youthful enthusiasm in which he composed it.

      "Schiller! that hour I would have wish'd to die,
        If through the shudd'ring midnight I had sent
        From the dark dungeon of the tower time-rent,
      That fearful voice, a famish'd father's cry--

      That in no after moment aught less vast
        Might stamp me mortal!  A triumphant shout
        Black Horror scream'd, and all her goblin rout
      From the more with'ring scene diminish'd pass'd.

      Ah! Bard tremendous in sublimity!
        Could I behold thee in thy loftier mood,
      Wand'ring at eve, with finely frenzied eye,
        Beneath some vast old tempest-swinging wood!
        Awhile, with mute awe gazing, I would brood,
      Then weep aloud in a wild ecstacy!"--

His _Conciones ad Populum_, Watchman, &c. are dreary trash.  Of his
Friend, I have spoken the truth elsewhere.  But I may say of him here,
that he is the only person I ever knew who answered to the idea of a man
of genius.  He is the only person from whom I ever learnt any thing.
There is only one thing he could learn from me in return, but _that_ he
has not.  He was the first poet I ever knew.  His genius at that time had
angelic wings, and fed on manna.  He talked on for ever; and you wished
him to talk on for ever.  His thoughts did not seem to come with labour
and effort; but as if borne on the gusts of genius, and as if the wings
of his imagination lifted him from off his feet.  His voice rolled on the
ear like the pealing organ, and its sound alone was the music of
thought.  His mind was clothed with wings; and raised on them, he lifted
philosophy to heaven.  In his descriptions, you then saw the progress of
human happiness and liberty in bright and never-ending succession, like
the steps of Jacob's ladder, with airy shapes ascending and descending,
and with the voice of God at the top of the ladder.  And shall I, who
heard him then, listen to him now?  Not I! . . . That spell is broke; that
time is gone for ever; that voice is heard no more: but still the
recollection comes rushing by with thoughts of long-past years, and
rings in my ears with never-dying sound.

        Reply Obj. 2: The things that we say of God must be
      understood without any of the defects
      which are to be found in us: thus in
      us science is of conclusions derived by reasoning
        from causes to effects: but science
        when said of God means sure
        knowledge of all effects
        in the First Cause, without any
        reasoning process. In like manner we
        ascribe counsel to God,
      as to the certainty of His knowledge or judgment, which certainty
in us arises from the inquiry of counsel.--

I have thus gone through the task I intended, and have come at last
to the level ground.  I have felt my subject gradually sinking from under
me as I advanced, and have been afraid of ending in nothing.  The
interest has unavoidably decreased at almost every successive step of
the progress, like a play that has its catastrophe in the first or
second act.  This, however, I could not help.  I have done as well as I
could.