Transcribed from the 1903 John Lane edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


Poems by Alice Meynell


Contents:

SONNET--MY HEART SHALL BE THY GARDEN
SONNET--THOUGHTS IN SEPARATION
TO A POET
SONG OF THE SPRING TO THE SUMMER
TO THE BELOVED
MEDITATION
TO THE BELOVED DEAD--A LAMENT
SONNET
IN AUTUMN
A LETTER FROM A GIRL TO HER OWN OLD AGE
SONG
BUILDERS OF RUINS
SONNET
SONG OF THE DAY TO THE NIGHT
'SOEUR MONIQUE'
IN EARLY SPRING
PARTED
REGRETS
SONG
SONNET--IN FEBRUARY
SAN LORENZO GIUSTINIANI'S MOTHER
SONNET--THE LOVE OF NARCISSUS
TO A LOST MELODY
SONNET--THE POET TO NATURE
THE POET TO HIS CHILDHOOD
SONNET
AN UNMARKED FESTIVAL
SONNET--THE NEOPHYTE
SONNET--SPRING ON THE ALBAN HILLS
SONG OF THE NIGHT AT DAYBREAK
SONNET--TO A DAISY
SONNET--TO ONE POEM IN A SILENT TIME
FUTURE POETRY
THE POET SINGS TO HER POET
A POET'S SONNET
THE MODERN POET
AFTER A PARTING
RENOUNCEMENT
VENI CREATOR


DEDICATION


TO W. M.

_Most of these verses were written in the author's early youth, and were
published in a volume called 'Preludes,' now out of print.  Other poems,
representing the same transitory and early thoughts, which appeared in
that volume, are now omitted as cruder than the rest; and their place is
taken by the few verses written in maturer years_.


SONNET--MY HEART SHALL BE THY GARDEN


My heart shall be thy garden.  Come, my own,
   Into thy garden; thine be happy hours
   Among my fairest thoughts, my tallest flowers,
From root to crowning petal, thine alone.

Thine is the place from where the seeds are sown
   Up to the sky enclosed, with all its showers.
   But ah, the birds, the birds!  Who shall build bowers
To keep these thine?  O friend, the birds have flown.

For as these come and go, and quit our pine
   To follow the sweet season, or, new-comers,
       Sing one song only from our alder-trees.

My heart has thoughts, which, though thine eyes hold mine,
   Flit to the silent world and other summers,
      With wings that dip beyond the silver seas.


SONNET--THOUGHTS IN SEPARATION


We never meet; yet we meet day by day
   Upon those hills of life, dim and immense:
   The good we love, and sleep--our innocence.
O hills of life, high hills!  And higher than they,

Our guardian spirits meet at prayer and play.
   Beyond pain, joy, and hope, and long suspense,
   Above the summits of our souls, far hence,
An angel meets an angel on the way.

Beyond all good I ever believed of thee
   Or thou of me, these always love and live.
And though I fail of thy ideal of me,

My angel falls not short.  They greet each other.
   Who knows, they may exchange the kiss we give,
Thou to thy crucifix, I to my mother.


TO A POET


Thou who singest through the earth,
   All the earth's wild creatures fly thee,
Everywhere thou marrest mirth.
   Dumbly they defy thee.
There is something they deny thee.

Pines thy fallen nature ever
For the unfallen Nature sweet.
But she shuns thy long endeavour,
   Though her flowers and wheat
Throng and press thy pausing feet.

Though thou tame a bird to love thee,
Press thy face to grass and flowers,
All these things reserve above thee
   Secrets in the bowers,
Secrets in the sun and showers.

Sing thy sorrow, sing thy gladness.
In thy songs must wind and tree
Bear the fictions of thy sadness,
   Thy humanity.
For their truth is not for thee.

Wait, and many a secret nest,
Many a hoarded winter-store
Will be hidden on thy breast.
   Things thou longest for
Will not fear or shun thee more.

Thou shalt intimately lie
In the roots of flowers that thrust
Upwards from thee to the sky,
   With no more distrust,
When they blossom from thy dust.

Silent labours of the rain
Shall be near thee, reconciled;
Little lives of leaves and grain,
    All things shy and wild
Tell thee secrets, quiet child.

Earth, set free from thy fair fancies
And the art thou shalt resign,
Will bring forth her rue and pansies
   Unto more divine
Thoughts than any thoughts of thine.

Nought will fear thee, humbled creature.
There will lie thy mortal burden
Pressed unto the heart of Nature,
   Songless in a garden,
With a long embrace of pardon.

Then the truth all creatures tell,
And His will whom thou entreatest,
Shall absorb thee; there shall dwell
    Silence, the completest
Of thy poems, last, and sweetest.


SONG OF THE SPRING TO THE SUMMER


THE POET SINGS TO HER POET

O poet of the time to be,
   My conqueror, I began for thee.
Enter into thy poet's pain,
   And take the riches of the rain,
And make the perfect year for me.

Thou unto whom my lyre shall fall,
Whene'er thou comest, hear my call.
   O, keep the promise of my lays,
   Take the sweet parable of my days;
I trust thee with the aim of all.

And if thy thoughts unfold from me,
Know that I too have hints of thee,
   Dim hopes that come across my mind
   In the rare days of warmer wind,
And tones of summer in the sea.

And I have set thy paths, I guide
Thy blossoms on the wild hillside.
   And I, thy bygone poet, share
   The flowers that throng thy feet where
I led thy feet before I died.


TO THE BELOVED


Oh, not more subtly silence strays
   Amongst the winds, between the voices,
Mingling alike with pensive lays,
   And with the music that rejoices,
Than thou art present in my days.

My silence, life returns to thee
   In all the pauses of her breath.
Hush back to rest the melody
   That out of thee awakeneth;
And thou, wake ever, wake for me.

Full, full is life in hidden places,
   For thou art silence unto me.
Full, full is thought in endless spaces.
   Full is my life.  A silent sea
Lies round all shores with long embraces.

Thou art like silence all unvexed
   Though wild words part my soul from thee.
Thou art like silence unperplexed,
   A secret and a mystery
Between one footfall and the next.

Most dear pause in a mellow lay!
   Thou art inwoven with every air.
With thee the wildest tempests play,
   And snatches of thee everywhere
Make little heavens throughout a day.

Darkness and solitude shine, for me.
   For life's fair outward part are rife
The silver noises; let them be.
   It is the very soul of life
Listens for thee, listens for thee.

O pause between the sobs of cares!
   O thought within all thought that is;
Trance between laughters unawares!
   Thou art the form of melodies,
And thou the ecstasy of prayers.


MEDITATION


_Rorate Coeli desuper, et nubes pluant Justum_.
_Aperiatur Terra, et germinet Salvatorem_.

No sudden thing of glory and fear
   Was the Lord's coming; but the dear
Slow Nature's days followed each other
To form the Saviour from his Mother
--One of the children of the year.

The earth, the rain, received the trust,
--The sun and dews, to frame the Just.
   He drew his daily life from these,
   According to his own decrees
Who makes man from the fertile dust.

Sweet summer and the winter wild,
These brought him forth, the Undefiled.
   The happy Springs renewed again
   His daily bread, the growing grain,
The food and raiment of the Child.


TO THE BELOVED DEAD--A LAMENT


Beloved, thou art like a tune that idle fingers
   Play on a window-pane.
The time is there, the form of music lingers;
   But O thou sweetest strain,
Where is thy soul?  Thou liest i' the wind and rain.

Even as to him who plays that idle air,
   It seems a melody,
For his own soul is full of it, so, my Fair,
   Dead, thou dost live in me,
And all this lonely soul is full of thee.

Thou song of songs!--not music as before
   Unto the outward ear;
My spirit sings thee inly evermore,
   Thy falls with tear on tear.
I fail for thee, thou art too sweet, too dear.

Thou silent song, thou ever voiceless rhyme,
   Is there no pulse to move thee,
At windy dawn, with a wild heart beating time,
   And falling tears above thee,
O music stifled from the ears that love thee?

Oh, for a strain of thee from outer air!
   Soul wearies soul, I find.
Of thee, thee, thee, I am mournfully aware,
   --Contained in one poor mind,
Who wert in tune and time to every wind.

Poor grave, poor lost beloved! but I burn
   For some more vast To be.
As he that played that secret tune may turn
   And strike it on a lyre triumphantly,
I wait some future, all a lyre for thee.


SONNET


Your own fair youth, you care so little for it,
   Smiling towards Heaven, you would not stay the advances
   Of time and change upon your happiest fancies.
I keep your golden hour, and will restore it.

If ever, in time to come, you would explore it--
   Your old self whose thoughts went like last year's pansies,
   Look unto me; no mirror keeps its glances;
In my unfailing praises now I store it.

To keep all joys of yours from Time's estranging,
   I shall be then a treasury where your gay,
      Happy, and pensive past for ever is.

I shall be then a garden charmed from changing,
   In which your June has never passed away.
      Walk there awhile among my memories.


IN AUTUMN


The leaves are many under my feet,
   And drift one way.
Their scent of death is weary and sweet.
   A flight of them is in the grey
Where sky and forest meet.

The low winds moan for dead sweet years;
   The birds sing all for pain,
Of a common thing, to weary ears,--
   Only a summer's fate of rain,
And a woman's fate of tears.

I walk to love and life alone
   Over these mournful places,
Across the summer overthrown,
   The dead joys of these silent faces,
To claim my own.

I know his heart has beat to bright
   Sweet loves gone by.
I know the leaves that die to-night
   Once budded to the sky,
And I shall die from his delight.

O leaves, so quietly ending now,
   You have heard cuckoos sing.
And I will grow upon my bough
   If only for a Spring,
And fall when the rain is on my brow.

O tell me, tell me ere you die,
   Is it worth the pain?
You bloomed so fair, you waved so high;
   Now that the sad days wane,
Are you repenting where you lie?

I lie amongst you, and I kiss
   Your fragrance mouldering.
O dead delights, is it such bliss,
   That tuneful Spring?
Is love so sweet, that comes to this?

O dying blisses of the year,
   I hear the young lambs bleat,
The clamouring birds i' the copse I hear,
   I hear the waving wheat,
Together laid on a dead-leaf bier.

Kiss me again as I kiss you;
   Kiss me again;
For all your tuneful nights of dew,
   In this your time of rain,
For all your kisses when Spring was new.

You will not, broken hearts; let be.
   I pass across your death
To a golden summer you shall not see,
   And in your dying breath
There is no benison for me.

* * * * *
   
Manners & Customs of all Nations.
   
* * * * *

THE CURFEW BELL.

(_For the Mirror_.)

Hark! the curfews solemn sound; Silence, darkness,
spreads around.

There are now but few places in which this ancient custom--the
memento of the iron sway of William the Conqueror--is retained.

Its impression when I heard it for the first
time, will never be effaced from my
memory.

Let not the reader suppose that it was
merely the _sound_ of the bell to which I allude; to
use the language of Thomas Moore, I may justly say, "Oh!

no, it was something more exquisite still."
It was during the autumn of last year, that
I had occasion to visit the eastern coast of Kent.

Accustomed to an inland county, the prospect of wandering
by the sea shore, and inhaling the sea breezes,
afforded me no trifling degree of pleasure.

The most frequented road to the sea, was through
a succession of meadows and pastures; the ground
becoming more irregular and broken as it advanced, till at last
it was little better than an accumulation of sand-hills.

I have since been informed by a veteran tar,
that these sand-hills bear a striking resemblance
to those on that part of the coast of Egypt, where the British
troops under the gallant Abercrombie were landed.

The evening was beautifully calm, not a sound disturbed
its tranquillity; and the sun was just sinking to
repose in all his dying glory.

At this part of the coast, the sands are hard and
firm to walk upon; and on arriving at their
extremity, where the waves were gently breaking at my feet, "forming
sweet music to the thoughtful ear," I looked around, and gazed on
the various objects that presented themselves to my view, with
feelings of deep interest and pleasure.

The evening was too far advanced to discern clearly
the coast of France, but its dim outline might
just be traced, bounding the view.

Every now and then a vessel might be seen making her
silent way round the foreland, her form
gradually lessening, till at last it was entirely lost in the
distance.

As it grew darker, the strong, red glare of
the light-house shedding its lurid
gleams on the waves, added a novel effect to the scene.

At the very moment I was turning from the
shore, to retrace my steps, the deep
tone of a distant bell fell on my ear.

It was the Curfew Bell--which had been tolled
regularly at eight o'clock in the evening,
since the days of the despotic William.

The vast changes that had taken place in society, in
fact, in every thing, since the institution of this custom, occupied
my thoughts during my walk; and I felt no little gratification in
the assurance that what was originally the edict of a barbarous and
despotic age, was now merely retained as a relic of ancient times.

It may be thought romantic, but the first hearing
of the Curfew Bell often occurs to my
memory; and there are times when I fancy myself walking on that
lone shore, and the objects that I then thought so beautiful, are
as distinctly and vividly seen as if I were actually there.

SONG


As the inhastening tide doth roll,
Dear and desired, along the whole
   Wide shining strand, and floods the caves,
   Your love comes filling with happy waves
The open sea-shore of my soul.

But inland from the seaward spaces,
None knows, not even you, the places
   Brimmed, at your coming, out of sight,
   --The little solitudes of delight
This tide constrains in dim embraces.

You see the happy shore, wave-rimmed,
But know not of the quiet dimmed
   Rivers your coming floods and fills,
   The little pools 'mid happier hills,
My silent rivulets, over-brimmed.

What, I have secrets from you?  Yes.
But, visiting Sea, your love doth press
   And reach in further than you know,
   And fills all these; and when you go,
There's loneliness in loneliness.


BUILDERS OF RUINS


We build with strength the deep tower-wall
   That shall be shattered thus and thus.
And fair and great are court and hall,
   But _how_ fair--this is not for us,
Who know the lack that lurks in all.

We know, we know how all too bright
   The hues are that our painting wears,
And how the marble gleams too white;--
   We speak in unknown tongues, the years
Interpret everything aright,

And crown with weeds our pride of towers,
   And warm our marble through with sun,
And break our pavements through with flowers,
   With an Amen when all is done,
Knowing these perfect things of ours.

O days, we ponder, left alone,
   Like children in their lonely hour,
And in our secrets keep your own,
   As seeds the colour of the flower.
To-day they are not all unknown,

The stars that 'twixt the rise and fall,
   Like relic-seers, shall one by one
Stand musing o'er our empty hall;
   And setting moons shall brood upon
The frescoes of our inward wall.

And when some midsummer shall be,
   Hither will come some little one
(Dusty with bloom of flowers is he),
   Sit on a ruin i' the late long sun,
And think, one foot upon his knee.

And where they wrought, these lives of ours,
   So many-worded, many-souled,
A North-west wind will take the towers,
   And dark with colour, sunny and cold,
Will range alone among the flowers.

And here or there, at our desire,
   The little clamorous owl shall sit
Through her still time; and we aspire
   To make a law (and know not it)
Unto the life of a wild briar.

Our purpose is distinct and dear,
   Though from our open eyes 'tis hidden.
Thou, Time-to-come, shalt make it clear,
   Undoing our work; we are children chidden
With pity and smiles of many a year.

Who shall allot the praise, and guess
   What part is yours and what is ours?--
O years that certainly will bless
   Our flowers with fruits, our seeds with flowers,
With ruin all our perfectness.

Be patient, Time, of our delays,
   Too happy hopes, and wasted fears,
Our faithful ways, our wilful ways,
   Solace our labours, O our seers
The seasons, and our bards the days;

And make our pause and silence brim
   With the shrill children's play, and sweets
Of those pathetic flowers and dim,
   Of those eternal flowers my Keats
Dying felt growing over him.


SONNET


I touched the heart that loved me as a player
   Touches a lyre; content with my poor skill
   No touch save mine knew my beloved (and still
I thought at times: Is there no sweet lost air
Old loves could wake in him, I cannot share?).
   Oh, he alone, alone could so fulfil
   My thoughts in sound to the measure of my will.
He is gone, and silence takes me unaware.

The songs I knew not he resumes, set free
From my constraining love, alas for me!
   His part in our tune goes with him; my part
Is locked in me for ever; I stand as mute
   As one with full strong music in his heart
Whose fingers stray upon a shattered lute.


SONG OF THE DAY TO THE NIGHT


THE POET SINGS TO HIS POET

From dawn to dusk, and from dusk to dawn,
   We two are sundered always, sweet.
A few stars shake o'er the rocky lawn
   And the cold sea-shore when we meet.
   The twilight comes with thy shadowy feet.

We are not day and night, my Fair,
   But one.  It is an hour of hours.
And thoughts that are not otherwhere
   Are thought here 'mid the blown sea-flowers,
   This meeting and this dusk of ours.

Delight has taken Pain to her heart,
   And there is dusk and stars for these.
Oh, linger, linger!  They would not part;
   And the wild wind comes from over-seas
   With a new song to the olive trees.

And when we meet by the sounding pine
   Sleep draws near to his dreamless brother.
And when thy sweet eyes answer mine,
   Peace nestles close to her mournful mother,
   And Hope and Weariness kiss each other.


'SOEUR MONIQUE'


A RONDEAU BY COUPERIN

Quiet form of silent nun,
What has given you to my inward eyes?
What has marked you, unknown one,
In the throngs of centuries
That mine ears do listen through?
This old master's melody
That expresses you,
This admired simplicity,
Tender, with a serious wit,
And two words, the name of it,
'Soeur Monique.'

And if sad the music is,
It is sad with mysteries
Of a small immortal thing
That the passing ages sing,--
Simple music making mirth
Of the dying and the birth
Of the people of the earth.

No, not sad; we are beguiled,
Sad with living as we are;
Ours the sorrow, outpouring
Sad self on a selfless thing,
As our eyes and hearts are mild
With our sympathy for Spring,
With a pity sweet and wild
For the innocent and far,
With our sadness in a star,
Or our sadness in a child.

But two words, and this sweet air.
      Soeur Monique,
Had he more, who set you there?
Was his music-dream of you
Of some perfect nun he knew,
Or of some ideal, as true?

And I see you where you stand
With your life held in your hand
As a rosary of days.
And your thoughts in calm arrays,
And your innocent prayers are told
On your rosary of days.
And the young days and the old
With their quiet prayers did meet
When the chaplet was complete.

Did it vex you, the surmise
Of this wind of words, this storm of cries,
   Though you kept the silence so
   In the storms of long ago,
   And you keep it, like a star?
   --Of the evils triumphing,
Strong, for all your perfect conquering,
   Silenced conqueror that you are?
And I wonder at your peace, I wonder.
Would it trouble you to know,
Tender soul, the world and sin
By your calm feet trodden under
      Long ago,
Living now, mighty to win?
And your feet are vanished like the snow.

Vanished; but the poet, he
In whose dream your face appears,
He who ranges unknown years
With your music in his heart,
Speaks to you familiarly
Where you keep apart,
And invents you as you were.
And your picture, O my nun!
Is a strangely easy one,
For the holy weed you wear,
For your hidden eyes and hidden hair,
And in picturing you I may
Scarcely go astray.

O the vague reality!
The mysterious certainty!
O strange truth of these my guesses
In the wide thought-wildernesses!
--Truth of one divined of many flowers;
Of one raindrop in the showers
Of the long-ago swift rain;
Of one tear of many tears
In some world-renowned pain;
Of one daisy 'mid the centuries of sun;
Of a little living nun
In the garden of the years.

Yes, I am not far astray;
But I guess you as might one
Pausing when young March is grey,
In a violet-peopled day;
All his thoughts go out to places that he knew,
To his child-home in the sun,
To the fields of his regret,
To one place i' the innocent March air,
By one olive, and invent
The familiar form and scent
Safely; a white violet
Certainly is there.

Soeur Monique, remember me.
'Tis not in the past alone
I am picturing you to be;
But my little friend, my own,
In my moment, pray for me.
For another dream is mine,
And another dream is true,
      Sweeter even,
Of the little ones that shine
Lost within the light divine,--
Of some meekest flower, or you,
      In the fields of Heaven.


IN EARLY SPRING


O Spring, I know thee!  Seek for sweet surprise
   In the young children's eyes.
But I have learnt the years, and know the yet
   Leaf-folded violet.
Mine ear, awake to silence, can foretell
   The cuckoo's fitful bell.
I wander in a grey time that encloses
   June and the wild hedge-roses.
A year's procession of the flowers doth pass
   My feet, along the grass.
And all you sweet birds silent yet, I know
   The notes that stir you so,
Your songs yet half devised in the dim dear
   Beginnings of the year.
In these young days you meditate your part;
   I have it all by heart.

I know the secrets of the seeds of flowers
   Hidden and warm with showers,
And how, in kindling Spring, the cuckoo shall
   Alter his interval.
But not a flower or song I ponder is
   My own, but memory's.
I shall be silent in those days desired
   Before a world inspired.
O dear brown birds, compose your old song-phrases
   Earth, thy familiar daisies.

The poet mused upon the dusky height,
   Between two stars towards night,
His purpose in his heart.  I watched, a space,
   The meaning of his face:
There was the secret, fled from earth and skies,
   Hid in his grey young eyes.
My heart and all the Summer wait his choice,
   And wonder for his voice.
Who shall foretell his songs, and who aspire
   But to divine his lyre?
Sweet earth, we know thy dimmest mysteries,
   But he is lord of his.


PARTED


Farewell to one now silenced quite,
Sent out of hearing, out of sight,--
   My friend of friends, whom I shall miss.
   He is not banished, though, for this,--
Nor he, nor sadness, nor delight.

Though I shall walk with him no more,
A low voice sounds upon the shore.
   He must not watch my resting-place
   But who shall drive a mournful face
From the sad winds about my door?

I shall not hear his voice complain,
But who shall stop the patient rain?
   His tears must not disturb my heart,
   But who shall change the years, and part
The world from every thought of pain?

Although my life is left so dim,
The morning crowns the mountain-rim;
   Joy is not gone from summer skies,
   Nor innocence from children's eyes,
And all these things are part of him.

He is not banished, for the showers
Yet wake this green warm earth of ours.
   How can the summer but be sweet?
   I shall not have him at my feet,
And yet my feet are on the flowers.


REGRETS


As, when the seaward ebbing tide doth pour
   Out by the low sand spaces,
The parting waves slip back to clasp the shore
   With lingering embraces,--

So in the tide of life that carries me
   From where thy true heart dwells,
Waves of my thoughts and memories turn to thee
   With lessening farewells;

Waving of hands; dreams, when the day forgets;
   A care half lost in cares;
The saddest of my verses; dim regrets;
   Thy name among my prayers.

I would the day might come, so waited for,
   So patiently besought,
When I, returning, should fill up once more
   Thy desolated thought;

And fill thy loneliness that lies apart
   In still, persistent pain.
Shall I content thee, O thou broken heart,
   As the tide comes again,

And brims the little sea-shore lakes, and sets
   Seaweeds afloat, and fills
The silent pools, rivers and rivulets
   Among the inland hills?


SONG


My Fair, no beauty of thine will last
   Save in my love's eternity.
   Thy smiles, that light thee fitfully,
Are lost for ever--their moment past--
   Except the few thou givest to me.

Thy sweet words vanish day by day,
   As all breath of mortality;
   Thy laughter, done, must cease to be,
And all thy dear tones pass away,
   Except the few that sing to me.

Hide then within my heart, oh, hide
   All thou art loth should go from thee.
   Be kinder to thyself and me.
My cupful from this river's tide
   Shall never reach the long sad sea.


SONNET--IN FEBRUARY


Rich meanings of the prophet-Spring adorn,
   Unseen, this colourless sky of folded showers,
   And folded winds; no blossom in the bowers.
A poet's face asleep is this grey morn.

Now in the midst of the old world forlorn
   A mystic child is set in these still hours.
   I keep this time, even before the flowers,
Sacred to all the young and the unborn;

To all the miles and miles of unsprung wheat,
   And to the Spring waiting beyond the portal,
      And to the future of my own young art,

And, among all these things, to you, my sweet,
   My friend, to your calm face and the immortal
      Child tarrying all your life-time in your heart.


SAN LORENZO GIUSTINIANI'S MOTHER


I had not seen my son's dear face
(He chose the cloister by God's grace)
   Since it had come to full flower-time.
   I hardly guessed at its perfect prime,
That folded flower of his dear face.

Mine eyes were veiled by mists of tears
When on a day in many years
   One of his Order came.  I thrilled,
   Facing, I thought, that face fulfilled.
I doubted, for my mists of tears.

His blessing be with me for ever!
My hope and doubt were hard to sever.
   --That altered face, those holy weeds.
   I filled his wallet and kissed his beads,
And lost his echoing feet for ever.

If to my son my alms were given
I know not, and I wait for Heaven.
   He did not plead for child of mine,
   But for another Child divine,
And unto Him it was surely given.

There is One alone who cannot change;
Dreams are we, shadows, visions strange;
   And all I give is given to One.
   I might mistake my dearest son,
But never the Son who cannot change.


SONNET--THE LOVE OF NARCISSUS


Like him who met his own eyes in the river,
   The poet trembles at his own long gaze
   That meets him through the changing nights and days
From out great Nature; all her waters quiver
With his fair image facing him for ever;
   The music that he listens to betrays
   His own heart to his ears; by trackless ways
His wild thoughts tend to him in long endeavour.

His dreams are far among the silent hills;
   His vague voice calls him from the darkened plain
With winds at night; strange recognition thrills
   His lonely heart with piercing love and pain;
He knows his sweet mirth in the mountain rills,
   His weary tears that touch him with the rain.


TO A LOST MELODY


Thou art not dead, O sweet lost melody,
   Sung beyond memory,
When golden to the winds this world of ours
   Waved wild with boundless flowers;
Sung in some past when wildernesses were,--
   Not dead, not dead, lost air!
Yet in the ages long where lurkest thou,
   And what soul knows thee now?
Wert thou not given to sweeten every wind
   From that o'erburdened mind
That bore thee through the young world, and that tongue
   By which thou first wert sung?
Was not the holy choir the endless dome,
   And nature all thy home?
Did not the warm gale clasp thee to his breast.
   Lulling thy storms to rest?
And is the June air laden with thee now,
   Passing the summer-bough?
And is the dawn-wind on a lonely sea
   Balmy with thoughts of thee?
To rock on daybreak winds dost thou rejoice,
   As first on his strong voice
Whose radiant morning soul did give thee birth,
   Gave thee to heaven and earth?
Or did each bird win one dear note of thee
   To pipe eternally?
Art thou the secret of the small field-flowers
   Nodding thy time for hours,
--Blown by the happy winds from hill to hill,
   And such a secret still?
Wielded entire by a Jeff.
   Davis, with all the Southern
spirit of aggression, it would be to them a
   more desirable object of an
_entente cordiale_.
   
But why should we not accept the proffered
   aid, though the offer
be prompted by selfish motives?
   Threatened by a wicked interference
in our affairs, which might prove
   dangerous to our national
existence, why refuse additional means
   to guard it, though these
be derived from an impure source? Will an innocent
   man, attacked by
assassins, repulse the aid of one hastening to
   save him, on the ground
that he, too, is a murderer? Certainly not. History,
   too, proves it by noble examples.

Pelopidas, the Theban hero, invokes the aid of the Persian king,
the natural enemy of the Greeks; Cato, who prefers a free death by
his own hand to life under a Cæsar, fights side by side with Juba,
a king of barbarians; Gustavus Adolphus, the champion of Protestantism
in Germany, acts in concert with Richelieu, the reducer of La
Rochelle, its last stronghold in France; Pulaski, who fights for
freedom in Poland and dies for it in America, accepts the aid of
the sultan; Franklin calls upon the master of the Bastille to defend
the Declaration of Independence; Ypsilanti raises the standard of
Neo-Grecian liberty in hope of aid from Czar Alexander I, and happier
Hellenes obtain it from Czar Nicholas, and conquer; the heroic
defender of Rome in 1849, Garibaldi, fights in 1859, so to say,
under the lead of Louis Napoleon, the destroyer of that republic.

But what has all this to do with the question
   before us? Has it come to this?
   Is the cause of this great republic reduced to
such extremities?

Is this nation of twenty millions of freemen,
   so richly endowed with all the faculties,
   resources, and artificial means which
constitute power, unable to preserve its national existence,
independence, and liberty, without help from the contaminating hand
of tyranny, without sacrificing its honor by basely singing hosannas
to the imperial butcher of Poland, at the very moment when the blood
of the people of Kosciuszko and Pulaski cries to Heaven and mankind
for vengeance?

Is the peril so great? so imminent? Is Hannibal _ante
   portas_? Has the French fleet dispersed
      Secretary Welles's five hundred and eighty-eight vessels of war,
broken the Southern blockade, and appeared before our Northern
harbors?

Are all Jeff. Davis's bitter complaints against the
   English cabinet but a sham, covering a
      deep-laid conspiracy with treacherous Albion?

Is Emperor Maximilian quietly seated on the throne of Montezuma,
and already marching his armies upon the Rio Grande?

The talk of foreign intervention has been going on for
years, and not a threatening cloud is yet to be seen on our
horizon. Both England and France deprecate the idea of hostile interference
   in American affairs.

It is _Russia_ that is _menaced_, an alliance with her can
serve only herself, and her artifices have caused all the foolish
clamor that threatens to disgrace this country.
   

And then, accepting aid is not forming an alliance, still less
an alliance _defensive_ and _offensive_. Not to speak of examples
too remote, every one familiar with the historical characters
   of the men, will know that neither Pulaski, Franklin, Ypsilanti,
or Garibaldi would ever have so degraded his cause--the cause of
liberty--as to promise to the despot, whose aid he desired, a
compensatory assistance in trampling down a people rising for
freedom.

No _innocent_ man attacked by assassins will promise, with honest
intent, to one who offers to save him, his assistance in continuing
a work of murder and resisting the arm of justice.
   

I rebel _not_, child gone by, but obey you wonderingly,
For you knew not, young rash speaker, all you spoke, and now will I,
With the life, and all the loneliness revealed that you thought fit,
   Sing the Amen, knowing it.


SONNET


A poet of one mood in all my lays,
   Ranging all life to sing one only love,
   Like a west wind across the world I move,
Sweeping my harp of floods mine own wild ways.

The countries change, but not the west-wind days
   Which are my songs.  My soft skies shine above,
   And on all seas the colours of a dove,
And on all fields a flash of silver greys.

I make the whole world answer to my art
   And sweet monotonous meanings.  In your ears
I change not ever, bearing, for my part,
   One thought that is the treasure of my years,
A small cloud full of rain upon my heart
   And in mine arms, clasped, like a child in tears.


AN UNMARKED FESTIVAL


There's a feast undated yet:
   Both our true lives hold it fast,--
The first day we ever met.
   What a great day came and passed!
   --Unknown then, but known at last.

And we met: You knew not me,
   Mistress of your joys and fears;
Held my hands that held the key
   Of the treasure of your years,
   Of the fountain of your tears.

For you knew not it was I,
    And I knew not it was you.
We have learnt, as days went by.
    But a flower struck root and grew
    Underground, and no one knew.

Days of days!  Unmarked it rose,
   In whose hours we were to meet;
And forgotten passed.  Who knows,
   Was earth cold or sunny, Sweet,
   At the coming of your feet?

One mere day, we thought; the measure
   Of such days the year fulfils.
Now, how dearly would we treasure
   Something from its fields, its rills,
   And its memorable hills;

--But one leaf of oak or lime,
    Or one blossom from its bowers
No one gathered at the time.
    Oh, to keep that day of ours
   By one relic of its flowers!


SONNET--THE NEOPHYTE


Who knows what days I answer for to-day:
   Giving the bud I give the flower.  I bow
   This yet unfaded and a faded brow;
Bending these knees and feeble knees, I pray.

Thoughts yet unripe in me I bend one way,
   Give one repose to pain I know not now,
   One leaven to joy that comes, I guess not how.
I dedicate my fields when Spring is grey.

Oh, rash! (I smile) to pledge my hidden wheat.
   I fold to-day at altars far apart
Hands trembling with what toils?  In their retreat
   I seal my love to-be, my folded art.
I light the tapers at my head and feet,
   And lay the crucifix on this silent heart.


SONNET--SPRING ON THE ALBAN HILLS


O'er the Campagna it is dim warm weather;
   The Spring comes with a full heart silently,
   And many thoughts; a faint flash of the sea
Divides two mists; straight falls the falling feather.

With wild Spring meanings hill and plain together
   Grow pale, or just flush with a dust of flowers.
   Rome in the ages, dimmed with all her towers,
Floats in the midst, a little cloud at tether.

I fain would put my hands about thy face,
   Thou with thy thoughts, who art another Spring,
      And draw thee to me like a mournful child.

Thou lookest on me from another place;
   I touch not this day's secret, nor the thing
      That in the silence makes thy sweet eyes wild.


SONG OF THE NIGHT AT DAYBREAK


All my stars forsake me,
And the dawn-winds shake me.
Where shall I betake me?

Whither shall I run
Till the set of sun,
Till the day be done?

To the mountain-mine,
To the boughs o' the pine,
To the blind man's eyne,

To a brow that is
Bowed upon the knees,
Sick with memories.


SONNET--TO A DAISY


Slight as thou art, thou art enough to hide,
   Like all created things, secrets from me,
   And stand a barrier to eternity.
And I, how can I praise thee well and wide?

The system is a vicious one. The lad needs
   developed masculinity. If he gets it
   neither in school nor in the home he will
find it on the street corner, through the vicious boy-leader of
the degrading poolroom or the alleys.

The boy who finds his father eager to talk over
   the game, to discuss the merits of
      peg-tops, to walk, row, play, and work with him, finds it as simple
and natural to talk with him over his moral and religious questionings
as it is to talk over the daily happenings.

   This winter of a silent poet's heart
   Is suddenly sweet with thee, but what thou art,
Mid-winter flower, I would I could divine.

Art thou a last one, orphan of thy line?
   Did the dead summer's last warmth foster thee?
   Or is Spring folded up unguessed in me,
And stirring out of sight,--and thou the sign?

Where shall I look--backwards or to the morrow
   For others of thy fragrance, secret child?
      Who knows if last things or if first things claim thee?

--Whether thou be the last smile of my sorrow,
   Or else a joy too sweet, a joy too wild?
      How, my December violet, shall I name thee?


FUTURE POETRY


No new delights to our desire
   The singers of the past can yield.
   I lift mine eyes to hill and field,
And see in them your yet dumb lyre,
   Poets unborn and unrevealed.

Singers to come, what thoughts will start
   To song? what words of yours be sent
   Through man's soul, and with earth be blent?
These worlds of nature and the heart
   Await you like an instrument.

Who knows what musical flocks of words
   Upon these pine-tree tops will light,
   And crown these towers in circling flight
And cross these seas like summer birds,
   And give a voice to the day and night?

Something of you already is ours;
   Some mystic part of you belongs
   To us whose dreams your future throngs,
Who look on hills, and trees, and flowers,
   Which will mean so much in your songs.

I wonder, like the maid who found,
   And knelt to lift, the lyre supreme
   Of Orpheus from the Thracian stream.
She dreams on its sealed past profound;
   On a deep future sealed I dream.

She bears it in her wanderings
   Within her arms, and has not pressed
   Her unskilled fingers, but her breast
Upon those silent sacred strings;
   I, too, clasp mystic strings at rest.

The seeming ocean is the first table
   land, whose soft, green undulations
   fill the horizon, though, when the
sky is clear, the snowy mountains
   may be seen far away, dazzling the heavens and the earth with their
brightness.

Spring and autumn here join hands, consecrating the double seedtime
and the double harvest of the year.

Yonder is a field of ripened grain.

And there is the Indian laborer,
near his cabin of thatch and
clay, guiding the rude
ploughshare through the
fertile soil.
   

All thy secrets that I treasure
I translate them at my pleasure.
I am crowned with glory of thine.
   Thine, not thine.

I make pensive thy delight,
And thy strong gold silver-white.
Though all beauty of nine thou makest,
Yet to earth which thou forsakest
I have made thee fair all night,
   Day all night.


A POET'S SONNET


If I should quit thee, sacrifice, forswear,
   To what, my art, shall I give thee in keeping?
   To the long winds of heaven?  Shall these come sweeping
My songs forgone against my face and hair?

Or shall the mountain streams my lost joys bear,
   My past poetic pain in the rain be weeping?
   No, I shall live a poet waking, sleeping,
And I shall die a poet unaware.

From me, my art, thou canst not pass away;
   And I, a singer though I cease to sing,
      Shall own thee without joy in thee or woe.

Through my indifferent words of every day,
   Scattered and all unlinked the rhymes shall ring
      And make my poem; and I shall not know.


THE MODERN POET


A SONG OF DERIVATIONS

I come from nothing; but from where
Come the undying thoughts I bear?
   Down, through long links of death and birth,
   From the past poets of the earth.
My immortality is there.

I am like the blossom of an hour.
But long, long vanished sun and shower
   Awoke my breath i' the young world's air.
   I track the past back everywhere
Through seed and flower and seed and flower.

Or I am like a stream that flows
Full of the cold springs that arose
   In morning lands, in distant hills;
   And down the plain my channel fills
With melting of forgotten snows.

Voices, I have not heard, possessed
My own fresh songs; my thoughts are blessed
   With relics of the far unknown.
   And mixed with memories not my own
The sweet streams throng into my breast.

Before this life began to be,
The happy songs that wake in me
   Woke long ago and far apart.
   Heavily on this little heart
Presses this immortality.




AFTER A PARTING


Farewell has long been said; I have forgone thee;
   I never name thee even.
But how shall I learn virtues and yet shun thee?
   But I will answer for it that
so long as M.

Bernier is at home no mortal shall breathe
   a syllable of it.'
'What of that?' sighed Hortense. 'He will
   not be with me ten minutes without
guessing it.'
'Oh, as for that,' said her companion, dryly, 'that's your own
affair.'How shall I thrust thee apart
   Since all my growth tends to thee night and day--
To thee faith, hope, and art?
   Swift are the currents setting all one way;
They draw my life, my life, out of my heart.




RENOUNCEMENT


I must not think of thee; and, tired yet strong,
   I shun the thought that lurks in all delight--
   The thought of thee--and in the blue Heaven's height,
And in the sweetest passage of a song.

Oh, just beyond the fairest thoughts that throng
   This breast, the thought of thee waits, hidden yet bright;
   But it must never, never come in sight;
I must stop short of thee the whole day long.

But when sleep comes to close each difficult day,
   When night gives pause to the long watch I keep,
      And all my bonds I needs must loose apart,

Must doff my will as raiment laid away,--
   With the first dream that comes with the first sleep
      I run, I run, I am gathered to thy heart.




A new edition of a work first published in 1846.

Mr. Calvert is a writer of considerable vigor,
but we think these 'Scenes and Thoughts'
seriously injured by the hatred of Catholicity
which breathes everywhere through them.
The time has come.  At last we hapless men
Know all our haplessness all through.  Come, then,
Endure undreamed humility: Lord of Heaven,
Come to our ignorant hearts and be forgiven.