"'We will force them to eat their own words.  Indeed, they shall be
made to give us a different answer.  And it will come soon, too, if
you will only leave the matter with me.'

"'Do as you please,' said the other councillors.  They went back to
their own houses, while the young man hurried home, rushed out into
the kitchen and picked out the largest kettle there.

"'Wife, cook as much oatmeal as this pot will hold,' he commanded.

"The woman wondered what in the world her husband could be thinking
of.  But she lost no time in guessing.  She ordered her servants to
make a big fire, while she herself stirred and cooked the great
kettleful of oatmeal.

"In the meanwhile, her husband hurried down to the pier, and got his
swiftest boat ready for a trip down the river.  Then he gathered the
best rowers in the town.

"'Come with me,' he said to two of them, when everything had been
made ready for a trip.  They hastened home with him, as he commanded.

"'Is the oatmeal ready?' he cried, rushing breathless into the
kitchen,

"His wife had just finished her work.  The men lifted the kettle from
the fire and ran with it to the waiting boat.  It was placed in the
stern and the oarsmen sprang to their places.

"'Pull, men!  Pull with all the strength you have, and we will go to
Strasburg in time to show those stupid people that, if it should be
necessary, we live near enough to them to give them a hot supper.'

"How the men worked!  They rowed as they had never rowed before.

"They passed one village after another.  Still they moved onward
without stopping, till they found themselves at the pier of Strasburg.

"The councillor jumped out of the boat, telling two of his men to
follow with the great pot of oatmeal.  He led the way to the
council-house, where he burst in with his strange present.

"'I bring you a warm answer to your cold words,' he told the
surprised councillors.  He spoke truly, for the pot was still
steaming.  How amused they all were!

"'What a clever fellow he is,' they said among themselves.  'Surely
we will agree to make the bond with Zurich, if it holds many men like
him.'

"The bond was quickly signed and then, with laughter and good-will,
the councillors gathered around the kettle with spoons and ate every
bit of the oatmeal.

"'It is excellent,' they all cried.  And indeed it was still hot
enough to burn the mouths of those who were not careful."

"Good!  Good!" cried the children, and they laughed heartily, even
though it was a joke against their own people.

Their father and mother had also listened to the story and enjoyed it
as much as the children.

"Another story, please, dear Uncle Fritz," they begged.

But their father pointed to the clock.  "Too late, too late, my
dears," he said.  "If you sit up any longer, your mother will have to
call you more than once in the morning.  So, away to your beds, every
one of you."


CHAPTER IV.

THE COFFEE-PARTY

"How would you like to be a wood-cutter, Hans?"

"I think it would be great sport.  I like to hear the thud of the axe
as it comes down on the trunk.  Then it is always an exciting time as
the tree begins to bend and fall to the ground.  Somehow, it seems
like a person.  I can't help pitying it, either."

Hans had come over to the next village on an errand for his father.
A big sawmill had been built on the side of the stream, and all the
men in the place were kept busy cutting down trees in the Black
Forest, or working in the sawmill.

After the logs had been cut the right length, they were bound into
rafts, and floated down the little stream to the Rhine.

"The rafts themselves seem alive," said Hans to his friend.  By the
way, old girl, let us cut out the reception. I want to call at the
bank, and at a shop in the Rua Grande. You will be interested."
Well, being a good and loving wife, she was interested deeply.

Ten thousand pounds was Dom Corria's financial estimate of the
services rendered by Philip, and Iris was absolutely dumfounded by
the total in milreis. But her voice came back when Philip took her
to a jeweler's, and the man produced a gold cross on which blazed
four glorious diamonds.

"Certainly.  They set up tents, or little huts, on the rafts, so
their wives and children can have a comfortable place to eat and
sleep.  Then, too, if it rains, they can be sheltered from the storm."

"I'd like to go with you sometime.  You pass close to Strasburg, and
I could stop and visit Uncle Fritz.  Wouldn't it be fun!"

"Hans!  Hans!" called a girl's voice just then.

"I don't see her, but I know that's Bertha.  She came over to the
village with me this afternoon.  One of her friends has a
coffee-party and she invited us to it.  So, good-bye."

"Good-bye, my lad.  Come and see me again.  Perhaps I can manage
sometime to take you with me on a trip down the river."

"Thank you ever so much."

Hans hurried away, and was soon entering the house of a little friend
who was celebrating her birthday with a coffee-party.

There were several other children there.  They were all dressed in
their best clothes and looked very neat and nice.  The boys wore long
trousers and straight jackets.  They looked like little old men.  The
girls had bright-coloured skirts and their white waists were fresh
and stiff.

Their shoes were coarse and heavy, and made a good deal of noise as
the children played the different games.  But they were all so plump
and rosy, it was good to look at them.

"They are a pretty sight," said one of the neighbours, as she poured
out the coffee.

"They deserve to have a good time," said another woman with a kind,
motherly face.  "They will soon grow up, and then they will have to
work hard to get a living."

The coffee and cakes were a great treat to these village children.
They did not get such a feast every day in the year.  Their mothers
made cakes only for festivals and holidays, and coffee was seldom
seen on their tables oftener than once a week.

In the great cities and fine castles, where the rich people of
Germany had their homes, they could eat sweet dainties and drink
coffee as often as they liked.  But in the villages of the Black
Forest, it was quite different.

"Good night, good night," said Hans and Bertha, as they left their
friends and trudged off on a path through the woods.  It was the
shortest way home, and they knew their mother must be looking for
them by this time.

It was just sunset, but the children could not see the beautiful
colours of the evening sky, after they had gone a short distance into
the thick woods.

"Do you suppose there are any bears around?" whispered Bertha.

The trees looked very black.  It seemed to the little girl as though
she kept seeing the shadow of some big animal hiding behind them.

"I've got plenty of money, an' you'll 'ave a tidy bit now, but there's
one thing neether of us can buy, and that's youth."
"I don't want to be young again," said David, "but I'd like to go
back just a year or so--no more.

"Why?"Isn't he a
big fellow?"

"See!  Hans, he has noticed us.  There he goes as fast as his legs
can carry him."

By this time, the children had reached the top of a hill.  The trees
grew very thick and close.  On one side a torrent came rushing down
over the rocks and stones.  It seemed to say:

"I cannot stop for any one.  But come with me, come with me, and I
will take you to the beautiful Rhine.  I will show you the way to
pretty bridges, and great stone castles, and rare old cities.  Oh,
this is a wonderful world, and you children of the Black Forest have
a great deal to see yet."

"I love to listen to running water," said Bertha.  "It always has a
story to tell us."

