Produced by Al Haines


The Religious Situation


BY

GOLDWIN SMITH


TORONTO

WM. But now everything was finally arranged, the daughter had made
wedding, and he himself should be in the next few days, the champion
right in the strange city to acquire.

Then, he invited them, too, because he could not continue to make
them here.

It was split into a separate e-book because it
had its own title and verso page.]


THE RELIGIOUS SITUATION.

(From the _North American Review_.)


"I express myself," says Bishop Butler, "with caution, lest I should be
mistaken to vilify reason, which is, indeed, the only faculty which we
have to judge concerning anything, even revelation itself; or be
misunderstood to assert that a supposed revelation cannot be proved
false from internal characters."  "The faculty of reason," he says, "is
the candle of the Lord within us against vilifying which we must be
very cautious."

"Once I have your answer," these were the last words of the letter, "I
am sending you a travel allowance, it is already concluded and
eingesiegelt. The house you will easily recognize, beside the green
bank, in front of the door, there is also an Linde, as at home in front
of your parents house, a chamber, which I own for the young people
prepared masters, is quite shady. "- I had folded the letter and
passed it back. But Lore shook his head. "Write to him, Mr. Philip!"
she said, while a tear after another dripped on her cheeks, and quietly
and with difficulty she added: "He has good intentions."

"And you do not want to come himself?" I asked. She looked at me,
with a look so full of despair, imploring that I regretted, at
this question they did. "Lore," I said, "because nobody can help?"
She lowered her head, by linking it to the forehead of a window washer
refused, the White Rose was still fragrant on the glossy black hair.
"He was, as he was still alive, just a poor foolish man," she said,
her voice broke and almost restrained sobs, "but he was my father,
and it has me but nobody else loved it - it would be me still not
infringed. "When she had said, we both fell silent, and only I
had not that I knew took her two hands, and they let me. - Since I
heard from the other side of the house, forth from the hall, the voice
of the Raugrafen call their names.

They went together. "Lore," I said, "because you can not get rid of that
man?" Her eyes looked big and I am sad to. "Oh doch!" she said softly,
and I was when I saw a smile around her mouth, but a smile, as in
veiled malice .-- By once again and more in our close call. They
hastily dried her eyes. "Farewell, Philipp, leb wohl!" She whispered. I
felt the pressure of the two little hands, then she continued. As
long as I still under the trees have gone up and down, I do not
know. I came back to consciousness of things around me, inside the halls
as the music suddenly stopped and I instead of the large owls cries
heard, the deeper in the forest, drove their essence. When I order on
the stone stairs to the footpath to arrive at the front of the house
passed, I saw Lore again. She stood under the hall, his arm around one
of the pillars slung, and looked through the trees down to the lake,
where just a weather note dazzling shone over the water .

On the beach I had a long sleepless on a cushion located on a
Plane sinnend how I Lore with the help of my mother another shelter
would like to open up and, perhaps the most difficult was that I could
talk about it, to accept such.
Rousseau was a
sentimental theist; Voltaire erected a church to God.  This vast
"Modernism," as the poor, quaking Pope rather happily calls the
ascendancy of science and criticism, has changed all.  It is
conceivable that, now as on some former occasions, the range of
discovery may have been overrated and the pendulum of opinion may
consequently have swung too far.  Evolution, apparently, has still a
wide space to traverse, even in what may be assumed to be the material
sphere.  What can it make of the marvellous stores of memory or of the
apparently boundless play of the imagination, which by its working in
sleep, sometimes with no assignable materials for the fancy, seems
almost to show creative power?

Has Deity directly revealed itself to man?  It has if the Bible is
inspired.  Otherwise, apparently, it has not.  About the Koran or the
Zendavesta it is hardly necessary to speak.  "The Bible" we call the
Old Testament and the New bound up together, as though they contained
the two halves of the same dispensation and the moral ideal of both
were the same.  The historical importance of the Old Testament can
hardly be overrated; nor can the literary grandeur of parts of it, or
the advance made in social character and in law.  When in connection
with the question of American slavery attention was specially directed
to the social law of Moses, no careful reader could fail to be greatly
struck by its advanced humanity and civilization.  Nevertheless, the
morality of the Old Testament is tribal, while that of the New
Testament is universal.  The tribal character of the Old Testament
morality is seen in the destruction of the first-born in Egypt in order
to force Pharaoh to let the Chosen People go; in the invasion of Canaan
and the slaughter of the Canaanites; in the murder of Sisera; in the
approval of the treason of Rahab; in David's putting to torture the
inhabitants of a captured city.  The attempt to reconcile all this with
universal morality by styling it the course of "Evolution" can hardly
avail, since the spirit of tribal separatism dominates in the latest
books of the Old Testament, Ezra and Nehemiah, where Israelites are not
only forbidden for the future to marry with Gentiles, but bidden to put
away Gentile wives.  It is true there are glimpses of a universal
dominion of the God of Israel, and of the happiness to be enjoyed by
all nations under it.  Still, Jehovah is Israel's God.

Were the Old Testament a Divine revelation it would certainly be free
from error concerning the works of Deity, which plainly it is not.  The
narrative in Genesis of creation, compared with other primitive
cosmogonies, is rational as well as sublime.  But if Professor Buckland
could persuade his hearers he could not persuade himself.

Oh, how soon they shall be cut at all this bitterness Mutileder when
he heard what was said in Jerusalem on public streets and squares! To
find out what was said should take things back and enter into some
explanations. The palace of Solomon was huge, and society in the
very entertaining.

Plenty of poets and players of harps, timpani and psaltery,
we rejoiced continuous. There were skilled dancers, which made ingenious
artists elegant furniture and other works extremely paramount, and the
best cooks were known then. That was in superlative degree,
rising to the fifth power, perpetual wedding of Camacho. Solomon and
his wives and servants devoured every thirty days fattened oxen, a
hundred sheep and a multitude of deer, buffalo, gazelles and birds.
And do not think that just because comiesen pan. The daily consumption
of flour used in bread, cakes, muffins and pasta _frolla or flora_
was ninety choirs, or forty-five cahíces, twelve bushels means.
So in the palace of Solomon to the last click was gave mouth to
ask for and was fat and pike.

The women, both in terms of nature, which used shavings seemed heavenly
and varied merit. At that time did not have names put on Ventura, but
his most significant names egregia qualities, for which only minds can
be colleagues, so valuable. So not a bad name Doña Sol, a White or black,
or a Dolores rejoice, which Rosa and smelled bad or was it as rough
thistle ajonjero. The favorite of Solomon had been wearing and
bearing the names because they deserved. The daughter of Pharaoh, who
was, no doubt, Meneftá II, was called anhet UOM-ie-Vandalize hearts.

One
adds that there was preternatural darkness; a third that the earth
quaked, that the rocks were rent, that the graves opened, and many
bodies of the saints which slept arose, came out of the graves after
the resurrection of Jesus, went into the holy city, and appeared to
many.  Such apparitions plainly must have produced an immense
sensation; such a sensation, it may be assumed, as would have brought
scepticism to its knees.  This surely must be legendary, and the legend
must have had time to grow.

Though grafts on the same original stock, the Gospels are often at
variance with each other; as in the case of the genealogy of Jesus,
upon which the harmonists labor in vain; in that of the marvels
attending his birth; in that of his Last Supper; in that of the
resurrection, which again baffles the skill of the harmonists.  Here,
surely, is proof that the pens of the narrators were not guided by
Omniscience.

Concerning the miracles of the casting out of devils generally, and in
particular of the casting out of a legion of devils into a herd of two
thousand swine at Gadara, what is to be said?  Are these not clearly
cases of human imagination set at work by a Jewish superstition?  Is it
possible that they should have had a place in a divine narrative of the
life of the Saviour of the world?  The Fourth Gospel omits them.
Orthodoxy would fain persuade itself that this was to avoid unnecessary
repetition.

Satan from the top of a mountain shows Jesus all the kingdoms of the
earth.  This seems to imply belief that the earth is a plane.  The
movement of the star of the Nativity seems to imply belief in the
rotation of the heavens.

About the authorship of the Fourth Gospel, and, consequently, about its
title to belief, there has been endless controversy among the learned.
But there are pretty plain indications, in the shape of the omission of
demoniac miracles and some lack of local knowledge, that it is not the
work of a Palestinian Jew.  Opening with a reference to the Logos, it
strikes the key of Alexandrian philosophy.  It is, indeed, rather
theological than historical, so that it has been not inaptly compared
to the Platonic, in contrast to the Xenophontic, account of Socrates,
the theology seems like that of a post-evangelical era.  Martineau's
conclusion is that "the only Gospel which is composed and not merely
compiled and edited, and for which, therefore, a single writer is
responsible, has its birthday in the middle of the second century, and
is not the work of a witness at all."  Historically, this Gospel is at
variance with the others in its narrative of the Last Supper.  "The
incidents," says the highly orthodox Speaker's Commentary, "are
parallel with sections of the Synoptic Gospels; but there are very few
points of actual correspondence in detail between the narratives of the
Synoptists and of St. John."  There appears to have been much
disputation among critics and commentators, but no room for disputation
surely would have been left concerning narratives, equally authentic
and inspired, of a momentous crisis in the life of the Saviour.

Solomon was very young when he married her, and she brought a dowry at
Gezer and twelve thousand horses to the back of his cavalry. After
Solomon loved to madness with Anahid, Lucero in the morning, the
daughter of the King of Armenia. Referred to, rejected it, had to
return to their homeland, where he was a son of Solomon, from whom the
famous Abagaro, whom Christ wrote a letter and sent his effigy.
After Solomon loved to madness with no less Leliti, Night,
princess of Ethiopia. Then Vahar loved passionately, who brought to
India the first Hebrew-Tiri ships were there. This Vahar or Tell
Spring, was the family of Saki, Kapilavastu kings, and therefore the
illustrious kinswoman Sakiamúni, which was to be the Buddha, and to
found a religion that believed in almost half of the human lineage.
For Finally, more durable than any passion he had conceived,
nurtured and kept the Sulamita Solomon, whose praise was composed
amatory poems more beautiful than had come so far in human tongue.

But Solomon, in the midst of so many delights and triumphs, I was jaded
. Nothing satisfied him. All was vanity of vanities for him and
affliction of spirit. Even had the enjoyment of self-esteem and pride,
because they claimed that their greatness was due to it and not
his character or his understanding and wisdom. Solomon had reconsidered
and had seen that, under the sun, the race was not the light, the war
was neither strong nor well-prepared, and of prudent wealth or the
favor of telling, but that everything was the result of blind
capricious fortune.

And being in his soul so painful state, when Adherbal was presented to
Echeloría. The people of Jerusalem said that Solomon had been known and
loved. And that was found Saron Rose and lily of the valley. And
he had compared his blonde head, the majesty, the Caramel, and the
smell of his clothes smell of musk and wild flowers that grow in the
Lebanon. The tenderness of Echeloría Solomon ensured that exceeded
that of Rachel and Jacob by Isaac by Rebekah. It was certainly a thousand
times that he loved more than he had loved other women, that she felt
for all sorts of affection, than with the pure spirit and felt like
he wanted his father David had found and wanted to Jonathan, who
died in Gelboé heights by the Philistines, and that in a stormy idolatrada
as the Prince had even idolatrada to Dina.
The Sermon on the Mount would appear, by the strong impress of
character it bears, to have special claims to authenticity.  So may the
Parables habitually employed as instruments of teaching and wearing
apparently the stamp of a single imagination.

That with Jesus of Nazareth there came into the world, and by his
example and teaching was introduced and propagated a moral ideal which,
embodied in Christendom, and surviving through all these centuries the
action of hostile forces the most powerful, not only from without, but
from within, has uplifted, purified, and blessed humanity is a
historical fact.  With the civilization of Christendom no other
civilization can compare.  But we have been accustomed to believe that
there was a miraculous revelation of the Deity.  A revelation of the
Deity, though not miraculous, Christianity may be believed to have been.

Revelation, direct and assured, of the nature, will, designs, or
relation to us of the Deity through the Bible or in any other way we
cannot be truly said to have.  All that we apparently can be said to
have, besides the religious instinct in ourselves, is the evidence of
beneficent design in the universe; balanced, we must sadly admit, by
much that with our present imperfect knowledge appears to us at
variance with beneficence; by plagues, earthquakes, famines, torturing
diseases, infant deaths; by the sufferings of animals preyed on by
other animals or breeding beyond the means of subsistence; by
inevitable accidents of all kinds; by the Tower of Siloam everywhere
falling on the just as well as on the sinner.  It was a long letter;
Christoph gave an account of his silence. He had the business of his
uncle over, but the relationships were long in limbo, since everything
from a marriage with the daughter of a wealthy abgehangen master
chimney sweep, he had already, since it is a curious Schneider
from the home he had visited, with the device to their wedding
chamber employed, as the whole thing again in question had been.

There is no absolutely distinct
line between good and evil.  The shades of character are numberless.

Another great change, rather of impression than of conviction, has been
creeping over the religious scene.  We have hitherto, largely, perhaps,
under the influence of the Bible, been fancying rather than thinking
that this little earth of ours was the centre of all things, the
special object of interest to the Creator; and that the grand drama of
existence was that enacted on this terrestrial stage and culminating in
Redemption.  Mutileder was too monarchical, and King, as King and his
science Infus and other virtues, he gave respect. Solomon also was
not any fault or had offended Mutileder. Had accepted that he had
brought, and had given proof of good taste to accept it. Sometimes
Mutileder conceived somewhat flattering hope. Echeloría had imagined
that mourn for him and had said to Solomon, with all miramiento and
finesse, not because he loved loved another, and gave out that
Solomon, who was kind to women, and so condescending that gallant and
consenting to take the idols from the land of each should not be
ferocious with Echeloría, but not well knew that his idol was Mutileder,
had to cede its claim. Mutileder reached columbrar as likely to make
the King seek to deliver the girl, and even that may be paving the
godfather of the wedding.

The courage, steadfastness and resistance Echeloría had to move all
this and more, the generous spirit of Solomon. What matters to this
great King a woman more or less, when he was in his harem queens seven
hundred, eight hundred concubines and infinite number of princesses?
So it was natural that, seeing Solomon Echeloría to love another,
grieving and weeping, and rejected by style and Arisco ranger, had to
show off. In making this assumption very plausible, it became Mutileder
red with shame.
For these unhappy ones would it be well,
as Mr. Chamberlain holds it was for him, that there should be no
hereafter?  Is their being brought into existence only to suffer
compatible with our faith in supreme benevolence?  Is confidence in
supreme justice compatible with the conviction that the tyrant and the
tortured victims of his tyranny, alike, repose forever in the grave?
Such, it is true, was the belief of the Hebrew; indication of any other
belief, at all events, he has left us none, unless it be a faint
glimpse of Sheol.  The philosophy of Job halts accordingly.  The Hebrew
believed that he would be rewarded or punished in his posterity.

Bishop Butler's grand argument for belief in the possibility of a
future life goes upon the supposition that our conscious personality is
distinct and separable from our perishable frame, and is in itself
"indiscerptible," so that there is no reason why it should not survive
the death of the body.  To prove that it ever has survived the death of
the body, or to show the mode of its survival, the Bishop does not
attempt.  But Butler lived long before Evolution and the general
advance of physiology in these later days.  Johnson, who was no
sceptic, owned that he yearned for more light on the "spiritual world,"
by which he apparently meant immortality.

Positivism tenders us endless existence as particles in a collective
humanity, the "colossal man."  But would there be much satisfaction in
existence when individuality and personal consciousness had been lost?
He was, finally, Solomon interested in trading with the Phoenicians
or Tarshish Iberia, Mutileder homeland, and even further, towards the
West and North of the world, far beyond, because the ships came to the
Baltic Tiri. Hence refluía on Jerusalem that God raised from temporal
goods. The silver was so common, that looked with contempt. Everything
was made of pure gold, even the kitchen junk.

Arabian perfumes were, of Egypt, linen cloth, horses and carts, ivory and
slaves from Nubia and especierías and sandalwood, and pearls, and
diamonds, and parrots and peacocks and Jimios, and cotton fabrics
and of silk, and above the mouth of the Indus.
It may explain our aesthetic nature with our music and art.
It may explain even our social and political frame and our habit of
conformity to law.  But beyond conformity to law, social or political,
is there not, in the highest specimens of our race at least, a
conception of an ideal of character and an effort to rise to it which
seem to point to a more spiritual sphere?