     [Monsieur Bousquet was called to Neuilly (residence of the
     Princess Pauline) in order to examine the beautiful teeth of her
     Imperial Highness.  Presented to her, he prepared to begin work.
     "Monsieur," said a charming young man in a wrapper, negligently
     lying on a sofa, "take care, I pray, what you do.  I feel a great
     interest in the teeth of my Paulette, and I hold you responsible for
     any accident."--" Be tranquil, my Prince; I can assure your Imperial
     Highness that there is no danger."  During all the time that
     Bousquet was engaged in working on the pretty mouth, these
     recommendations continued.  At length, having finished what he had
     to do, he passed into the waiting-room, where he found assembled the
     ladies of the palace, the chamberlains, etc., who were awaiting to
     enter the apartments of the Princess.

     They hastened to ask Bousquet news of the princess, "Her Imperial
     Highness is very well, and must be happy in the tender attachment
     her august husband feels for her, which he has shown in my presence
     in so touching a manner.  His anxiety was extreme.  It was only with
     difficulty I could reassure him as to the result of the simplest
     thing in the world; I shall tell everywhere what I have just
     witnessed.  It is pleasant to be able to cite such an example of
     conjugal tenderness in so high a rank.  I am deeply impressed with
     it."  They did not try to stop good M. Bousquet in these expressions
     of his enthusiasm.  The desire to laugh prevented a single word; and
     he left convinced that nowhere existed a better household than that
     of the Prince and Princess Borghese.  The latter was in Italy, and
     the handsome young man was M. de Canouville.

     I borrow this curious anecdote from the "Memoirs of Josephine," the
     author of which, who saw and described the Court of Navarre and
     Malmaison with so much truth and good judgment, is said to be a
     woman, and must be in truth a most intellectual one, and in a better
     position than any other person to know the private affairs of her
     Majesty, the Empress.--CONSTANT.

     He was slain by a ball from a French cannon, which was discharged
     after the close of an action in which he had shown the most
     brilliant courage.--CONSTANT.]

Moreover, however great may have been the frailty of Princess Pauline in
regard to her lovers, and although most incredible instances of this can
be related without infringing on the truth, her admirable devotion to the
person of the Emperor in 1814 should cause her faults to be treated with
indulgence.

On innumerable occasions the effrontery of her conduct, and especially
her want of regard and respect for the Empress Marie Louise, irritated
the Emperor against the Princess Borghese, though he always ended by
pardoning her; notwithstanding which, at the time of the fall of her
august brother she was again in disgrace, and being informed that the
island of Elba had been selected as a prison for the Emperor, she
hastened to shut herself up there with him, abandoning Rome and Italy,
whose finest palaces were hers.  Before the battle of Waterloo, his
Majesty at the critical moment found the heart of his sister Pauline
still faithful.  Fearing lest he might be in need of money, she sent him
her handsomest diamonds, the value of which was enormous; and they were
found in the carriage of the Emperor when it was captured at Waterloo,
and exhibited to the curiosity of the inhabitants of London.  But the
diamonds have been lost; at least, to their lawful owner.


CHAPTER XIV.

On the day of General Moreau's arrest the First Consul was in a state of
great excitement.

     [Jean Victor Moreau, born at Morlaix in Brittany, 1763, son of a
     prominent lawyer.  At one time he rivaled Bonaparte in reputation.
     He was general-in-chief of the army of the Rhine, 1796, and again in
     1800, in which latter year he gained the battle of Hohenlinden.
     Implicated in the conspiracy of Pichegru, he was exiled, and went to
     the United States.  He returned to Europe in 1813, and, joining the
     allied armies against France, was killed by a cannon-shot in the
     attack on Dresden in August of that year.]

The morning was passed in interviews with his emissaries, the agents of
police; and measures had been taken that the arrest should be made at the
specified hour, either at Gros-Bois, or at the general's house in the
street of the Faubourg Saint-Honore.  The First Consul was anxiously
walking up and down his chamber, when he sent for me, and ordered me to
take position opposite General Moreau's house (the one in Paris), to see
whether the arrest had taken place, and if there was any tumult, and to
return promptly and make my report.  I obeyed; but nothing extraordinary
took place, and I saw only some police spies walking along the street,
and watching the door of the house of the man whom they had marked for
their prey.  Thinking that my presence would probably be noticed, I
retired; and, as I learned while returning to the chateau that General
Moreau had been arrested on the road from his estate of Gros-Bois, which
he sold a few months later to Marshal Berthier, before leaving for the
United States, I quickened my pace, and hastened to announce to the First
Consul the news of the arrest.  He knew this already, made no response,
and still continued thoughtful, and in deep reflection, as in the
morning.

Since I have been led to speak of General Moreau, I will recall by what
fatal circumstances he was led to tarnish his glory.  Madame Bonaparte
had given to him in marriage Mademoiselle Hulot, her friend, and, like
herself, a native of the Isle of France.  This young lady, gentle,
amiable, and possessing those qualities which make a good wife and
mother, loved her husband passionately, and was proud of that glorious
name which surrounded her with respect and honor; but, unfortunately, she
had the greatest deference for her mother, whose ambition was great, and
who desired nothing short of seeing her daughter seated upon a throne.
The influence which she exercised over Madame Moreau soon extended to the
general himself, who, ruled by her counsels, became gloomy, thoughtful,
melancholy, and forever lost that tranquillity of mind which had
distinguished him.  From that time the general's house was open to
intrigues and conspiracies; and it was the rendezvous of all the
discontented, of which there were many.  The general assumed the task of
disapproving all the acts of the First Consul; he opposed the
reestablishment of public worship, and criticised as childish and
ridiculous mummery the institution of the Legion of Honor.  These grave
imprudences, and indeed many others, came to the ears of the First
Consul, who refused at first to believe them; but how could he remain
deaf to reports which were repeated each day with more foundation, though
doubtless exaggerated by malice?

