We have learned that each day is given to rapid preparations for
the Grand Ceremony; and it is now true that, internally, public
opinion has been slighted, and, externally, occasions have been
offered to foreigners to encroach on our rights. Our blood runs
cold when we face the dangers at the door. Not once but twice hath
the President taken the oath to observe and obey the Constitution
and protect and maintain the Republic. The oath was sworn before
Heaven and Earth; and it is on record in the hearts of millions of
people and the words thereof still echo in the ears of the people
of all nations. In the Classics it is said that "in dealing with
the people of the country, faith is of the essence of great rule."
Again it is written that "without faith a people cannot endure as
a nation." How then can one rule the people when he "eats" his own
words and tears his own oath? Principle has now been cast to the
winds and the Kuo-ti has been changed. We know not how the country
can be administered.

Since the suspension of the National Assembly and the revision of
the Constitution, the powers of Government have been centred in
one person, with the implied freedom to do whatever seems meet
without let or hindrance. On the next morning was Alaeddin, the love
for the princess did not sleep in all morning, and immediately
released the spirit. "Sir," he said to him, "your palace is finished,
come and see whether you are satisfied." Alaeddin everything
was so far beyond his expectation that he could not wonder
enough.

The Spirit led him around, and everywhere he found wealth, beauty
and magnificence, to servants and slaves, all the range
and services under dressed for which they were intended. Also
he has not failed him as a treasure to the main show, whose door
was opened by the Treasurer, and Alaeddin saw this whole bunch
of gold bags of various sizes, depending on the amounts that they
contained up to the vault up, and everything in so beautiful order,
the heart that he laughed for joy.

When you go beyond the mind assured him that he is on the
fidelity of the treasurer should totally leave. This led him into
the stables and showed him the most beautiful horses in the
world, and the grooms who were eagerly employed them to cultivate
and maintain. Finally, he went with him through the pantries, where
all kinds of supplies, mainly food for the horses and horse
jewelry, aufgehäuft beaten. Alaeddin After all the palace from top
to bottom, from room to room, from chamber to chamber, particularly
the room with the windows patterned twenty-four and is more
pomp and glory, as he had ever hoped, and all imaginable conveniences
had encountered, he said to the spirit, "spirit, it can be nobody
happier than I am, and it would be very wrong of me if I
wanted to complain in the least. But something is still missing,
what I have said nothing to you because I thought not. I wish
from the palace gates of the sultan until the entrance of the
room, in this palace for the princess are a carpet of velvet
spread to the nicest, so they go on the same, if they come from
the palaces of the sultan comes. " - "I come back for the
moment," said the ghost and disappeared. A little while later
Alaeddin saw with great amazement his wish fulfilled, without
that he knew how it was received. The spirit appeared again and
helped Alaeddin in his apartment, while at the gate of the
sultan's palace has been opened. The gatekeeper of the palace,
which opened the gate and after the side, where now splendid
buildings Alaeddin was, always had a free prospect had were very
surprised when they blocked this view and from there to the palace
gate of the sultan saw a velvet spread.

My astonishment grew when she quite clearly the magnificent palace
Alaeddin saw. The news of this strange miracle spread like wildfire
throughout the palace. The Großvezier, who immediately after
opening the gate in the palaces einfand, was equally surprised,
like all others, and immediately informed the matter with the
Sultan, but she said for a work of magic. »Vezi," replied the
sultan, "why should it work its magic? You know so well as I
do, that the palace is the means of Alaeddin the permission that
I put to him in your presence there, as housing for the princess,
my daughter has built.

After the rehearsals, which he gave us from his wealth, where, it
is not so strange that he had this palace in such a short time has
completed.

He has made us so surprised and want to show that with equivalent
money over night can do wonders.

Only admit that if you slightly undermined by jealousy when you
talk of magic.

"However, it was time to go to the council, and they broke
from the conversation. Alaeddin As in his apartment had been
brought back and the spirit was released, He found his mother
on the legs and with the tightening employs one of the dresses,
which he had to leave her.
If any one
shall hereafter dare to advance strange doctrines and misconstrue
the meaning of the Constitution, he will be punished severely in
accordance with the law of sedition."

Yang Tu for having publicly organized the said Society and Chu
Chi-chien for having directly plotted by telegram are the
principal offenders in the present flagrant case of sedition. As
their crimes are obvious and the subject of abundant proof, we
hereby ask the President to carry out at once the terms of the
said mandate and publicly execute Yang Tu, Sun Yu-yun, Yen Fu, Liu
Shih-pei, Li Hsieh-ho, Hu Ying, Chu Chi-chien, Tuan Chih-kuei,
Chow Tze-chi, Liang Shih-yi, Chang Cheng-fang and Yuan Nai-kuan
to the end that the whole nation may be pacified. Then, and not
till then, will the world believe in the sincerity of the
President, in his love for the country and his intention to abide
by the law. All the troops and people here are in anger; and
unless a substantial proof from the Central Authorities is
forthcoming, guaranteeing the maintenance of the Republic, it will
be impossible to suppress or pacify them. We await a reply within
twenty-four hours.

(Signed) THE GOVERNORS OF YUNNAN PROVINCE.

It was evident from the beginning that pride prevented Yuan Shih-
kai from retreating from the false position he had taken up. Under
his instructions the State Department sent a stream of powerful
telegraphic messages to Yunnan attempting to dissuade the
Republican leaders from revolt. But the die had been cast and very
gravely the standard of rebellion was raised in the capital city
of Yunnan and the people exhorted to shed their blood. Everything
pointed to the fact that this rising was to be very different from
the abortive July outbreak of 1913. There was a soberness and a
deliberation about it all which impressed close observers with a
sense of the ominous end which was now in sight.

Still Peking remained purblind. During the month of January the
splendour of the dream empire, which was already dissolving into
thin air, filled the newspapers. It was reported that an Imperial
Edict printed on Yellow Paper announcing the enthronement was
ready for universal distribution: that twelve new Imperial Seals
in jade or gold were being manufactured: that a golden chair and a
magnificent State Coach in the style of Louis XV were almost
ready. Homage to the portrait of Yuan Shih-kai by all officials
throughout the country was soon to be ordered; sycophantic
scholars were busily preparing a volume poetically entitled "The
Golden Mirror of the Empire," in which the virtues of the new
sovereign were extolled in high-sounding language. A recondite
significance, it was said, was to be given to the old ceremonial
dress, which was to be revived, from the fact that every official
would carry a Hu or Ivory Tablet to be held against the breast.
The very mention of this was sufficient to make the local price of
ivory leap skywards! In the privacy of drawing-rooms the story
went the rounds that Yuan Shih-kai, now completely deluded into
believing in the success of his great scheme, had held a full-
dress rehearsal of a ceremony which would be the first one at his
new Court when he would invest the numerous ladies of his
establishment with royal rank. Seated on his Throne he had been
engaged in instructing these interested females, already robed in
magnificent costumes, in the parts they were to play, when he had
noticed the absence of the Korean Lady--a consort he had won, it
is said, in his Seoul days in competition against the Japanese
Envoy accredited to Korea, thereby precipitating the war of 1894-
95. [Footnote: This story is firmly believed by many, namely that
a beautiful woman caused the loss of Korea.] The Korean Lady had
refused to enter the Throne-room, he was told, because she was
dissatisfied with the rank he proposed to confer on her. Sternly
he sent for her and told her to take her place in the circle. But
no sooner had she arrived than hysterically she screamed, "You
told me when you wedded me that no wife would be my superior: now
I am counted only a secondary consort." With that she hurled
herself at the eldest wife who was occupying the post of honour
and assailed her bitterly. Amidst the general confusion the would-
be-Emperor hastily descended from his Throne and vainly
intervened, but the women were not to be parted until their robes
were in tatters.

In such childishnesses did Peking indulge when a great disaster
was preparing. To explain what had occurred in Yunnan it is
necessary to go back and tell the story of a remarkable young
Chinese-General Tsao-ao, the soul of the new revolt.

In the revolution of 1911 each province had acted on the
assumption that it possessed inherent autonomous rights and could
assume sovereignty as soon as local arrangements had allowed the
organization of a complete provisional government. Yunnan had been
one of the earliest provinces to follow the lead of the Wu-chang
rebels and had virtually erected itself into a separate republic,
which attracted much attention because of the iron discipline
which was preserved. Possessing a fairly well-organized military
system, largely owing to the proximity of the French frontier and
the efforts which a succession of Viceroys had made to provide
adequate frontier defence, it was amply able to guarantee its
newly won autonomy. General Tsao-ao, then in command of a division
of troops had been elected Generalissimo of the province; and
bending himself to his task in very few weeks he had driven into
exile all officials who adhered to the Imperialist cause and made
all local institutions completely self-supporting. Even in 1911 it
had been reported that this young man dreamed of founding a
dynasty for himself in the mountains of South China--an ambition
by no means impossible of realization since he had received a
first-class military education in the Tokio Military Schools and
was thoroughly up-to-date and conversant with modern theories of
government.

These reports had at the time greatly concerned Yuan Shih-kai who
heard it stated by all who knew him that the Yunnan leader was a
genius in his own way. In conformity with his policy of bringing
to Peking all who might challenge his authority, he had induced
General Tsao-ao, since the latter had played no part in the
rebellion of 1913, to lay down his office of Yunnan Governor-
General and join him in the capital at the beginning of 1914--
another high provincial appointment being held out to him as a
bait.

Once in Peking, however, General Tsao-ao had been merely placed in
charge of an office concerned with the reorganization of the land-
tax, nominally a very important piece of work long advocated by
foreign critics. But as there were no funds available, and as the
purpose was plainly merely to keep him under observation, he
fretted at the restraint, and became engaged in secret political
correspondence with men who had been exiled abroad. As he was soon
an open suspect, in order to avoid arrest he had taken the bold
step at the very inception of the monarchy movement of heading the
list of Generals in residence in Peking who petitioned the Senate
to institute a Monarchy, this act securing him against summary
treatment. And if I love him, I must be frank and say then,
because he loves me. Although a low estimate it as easy and as
soon I have to give them that. - I'm all in your mind. Give them
this: that you hear from your mouth and be the happiest of mortals.
- When?

And what luck? No: do not tell him anything. I am ashamed. Shut up,
shut up out of pity. To be quiet and leave me in my retirement.
- C'mon, woman, do not be unreasonable. How did you go unanswered,
after the step that has - And I replied, if I do not know what
to answer? Do not you think that you will not regret it either say
yes? Do you think that you really love me, be with all of his
life as I need to be loved, as I would love if you love me? -
Go if you think so. His words instill the belief in understanding
more inclined to doubt. Oyelaran, and be convinced. I dare to tell
you. By God, Light, do not be mad. I have not managed to resist
their entreaties. I've brought in my company. Is waiting at the
high block. I'll call you flying. Before they consented Doña Luz,
her friend, as a slight Corza, had gone in search of the deputy
brigadier. Doña Luz did not know what was wrong. Was agitadísima.
It was the first time you went to see alone with a young
lover, in that pudica retreat, where he had lived more years flower
of their youth.

All the vague dreams of love, all the sweet words, all the gifts
of the soul is suddenly offered his imagination, and not be
encrypted in an ideal and air, creating imaginary, but applied and
dedicated to the love of a real person and full Life, whose
excellent garments was pleased to recognize and whose affection
for her flattered her pride. The shade of melancholy P. Henry crossed
his mind, sad. He looked the image of Christ dead and on a whim
that resembled the P. Enrique. Was clear day. The sun came
through the window, and yet felt a tremor while watching the
Christ. He hastily went to him and covered with another box. As
for removing all of them are grim picture then looked in the mirror.

It was beautiful, gallant, any freshness, elegance and youth,
and found natural, almost forced, D. Jaime love her. Then he thought
again Fr Enrique, but in another way. The same love of it to D.
Jaime clarify what is their inclination towards the Father could
have been caused by a questionable interpretation. This encourages
people to think and feel in love with D. Jaime. Jaime loving your
eyes away everything that could have taken his unusual
friendship with the missionary. How ridiculous that such
relations had come to believe and sometimes disappear, and
everything was explained. This series of thoughts happened in an
instant for the soul of Doña Luz. A moment was no more what it
took D. James to appear at the door of the lounge that doña
Manolita had left open. He had no D. Jaime speak the word to get
permission to enter the lounge. She looked, she saw him coming
and he received no compliance or ceremony. Manolita Doña stayed
outside and D. James went solo. Doña Luz where He hastily stood;
drive ashore both knees, and touched with an accent said:
- I know V. V. that depends on me or my unhappiness. Look here my
sentence. Any more lengthy speech was absurd at the time, all
art in vain, all precautionary shocking.

The door of the lounge had been wide and D. Jaime was kneeling at
the feet of Doña Luz. It seems that just surrender discretion,
particularly for his part was said, and she just talking and playing
conditions. The pride of Doña Luz keenly felt flattered. That
_dandy_, one brave man of the future and career, was there prostrate
before her beauty, without resort to much more performance than
the sudden and passionate love she had been able to inspire you.

But during this movement General Feng Kuo-chang had
expressed himself in such contemptuous terms of the would-be
Emperor that orders had been given to another high official--
Admiral Tseng, Garrison Commissioner at Shanghai--to have him
assassinated. Instead of obeying his instructions, Admiral Tseng
had conveyed a warning to his proposed victim, the consequence
being that the unfortunate admiral was himself brutally murdered
on the streets of Shanghai by revolver-shots for betraying the
confidence of his master. After this denouement it was not very
strange that General Feng Kuo-chang should have intimated to the
Republican Party that as soon as they entered the Yangtsze Valley
he would throw his lot with them together with all his troops. Of
this Yuan Shih-kai became aware through his extraordinary system
of intelligence; and following his usual practice he had ordered
General Feng Kuo-chang to Peking as Chief of the General Staff--an
appointment which would place him under direct surveillance. First
on one excuse, then on another, General Feng Kuo-chang had managed
to delay his departure from day to day without actually coming
under the grave charge of refusing to obey orders. But finally the
position was such that he telegraphed to General Tsao-ao that
unless the Yunnan arrangements were hastened he would have to
leave Nanking--and abandon this important centre to one of Yuan
Shih-kai's own henchmen--which meant the end of all hopes of the
Yangtsze Valley rising EN MASSE.

It was to save Feng Kuo-chang, then, that the young patriot Tsao-
ao caused the ultimatum to be dispatched fourteen days too soon
i.e., before the Yunnan troops had marched over the mountain-
barrier into the neighbouring province of Szechuan and seized the
city of Chungking--which would have barred the advance of the
Northern troops permanently as the river defiles even when lightly
defended are impassable here to the strongest force. So he
came from town to town, and from country to country, without
stopping en route for more than his horse needed time to rest, to
China and soon in the capital of the sultan. He went into a public
inn and rented a room.Lancaster.
This procedure of the king like me, it is noble. He wants to have
its usual partners with all Nöthiger Seyn be supplied, but they
are banished to a better performance with the world they have
reconciled.
This veiled threat was understood by Yuan Shih-kai. Grimly he
accepted the checkmate.

