  For my ward, it is another matter; I had promised her
before to a gentleman, a kinsman of my house, one Hamley; the promise is
old--"

"Ay, my lord, and now Sir Daniel hath promised her to my Lord Shoreby,"
interrupted Dick.  "And his promise, for all it is but young, is still
the likelier to be made good."

"'Tis the plain truth," returned his lordship.  "And considering,
moreover, that I am your prisoner, upon no better composition than my
bare life, and over and above that, that the maiden is unhappily in other
hands, I will so far consent.  Aid me with your good fellows"--

"My lord," cried Dick, "they are these same outlaws that ye blame me for
consorting with."

"Let them be what they will, they can fight," returned Lord Foxham.
"Help me, then; and if between us we regain the maid, upon my knightly
honour, she shall marry you!"

Dick bent his knee before his prisoner; but he, leaping up lightly from
the cross, caught the lad up and embraced him like a son.

"Come," he said, "an y' are to marry Joan, we must be early friends."


CHAPTER IV--THE GOOD HOPE


An hour thereafter, Dick was back at the Goat and Bagpipes, breaking his
fast, and receiving the report of his messengers and sentries.  Duckworth
was still absent from Shoreby; and this was frequently the case, for he
played many parts in the world, shared many different interests, and
conducted many various affairs.  He had founded that fellowship of the
Black Arrow, as a ruined man longing for vengeance and money; and yet
among those who knew him best, he was thought to be the agent and
emissary of the great King-maker of England, Richard, Earl of Warwick.

In his absence, at any rate, it fell upon Richard Shelton to command
affairs in Shoreby; and, as he sat at meat, his mind was full of care,
and his face heavy with consideration.  It had been determined, between
him and the Lord Foxham, to make one bold stroke that evening, and, by
brute force, to set Joanna free.  The obstacles, however, were many; and
as one after another of his scouts arrived, each brought him more
discomfortable news.

Sir Daniel was alarmed by the skirmish of the night before.  He had
increased the garrison of the house in the garden; but not content with
that, he had stationed horsemen in all the neighbouring lanes, so that he
might have instant word of any movement.  Meanwhile, in the court of his
mansion, steeds stood saddled, and the riders, armed at every point,
awaited but the signal to ride.

The adventure of the night appeared more and more difficult of execution,
till suddenly Dick's countenance lightened.

"Lawless!" he cried, "you that were a shipman, can ye steal me a ship?"

"Master Dick," replied Lawless, "if ye would back me, I would agree to
steal York Minster."

Presently after, these two set forth and descended to the harbour.  It
was a considerable basin, lying among sand hills, and surrounded with
patches of down, ancient ruinous lumber, and tumble-down slums of the
town.  Many decked ships and many open boats either lay there at anchor,
or had been drawn up on the beach.  A long duration of bad weather had
driven them from the high seas into the shelter of the port; and the
great trooping of black clouds, and the cold squalls that followed one
another, now with a sprinkling of dry snow, now in a mere swoop of wind,
promised no improvement but rather threatened a more serious storm in the
immediate future.

The seamen, in view of the cold and the wind, had for the most part slunk
ashore, and were now roaring and singing in the shoreside taverns.  Many
of the ships already rode unguarded at their anchors; and as the day wore
on, and the weather offered no appearance of improvement, the number was
continually being augmented.  It was to these deserted ships, and, above
all, to those of them that lay far out, that Lawless directed his
attention; while Dick, seated upon an anchor that was half embedded in
the sand, and giving ear, now to the rude, potent, and boding voices of
the gale, and now to the hoarse singing of the shipmen in a neighbouring
tavern, soon forgot his immediate surroundings and concerns in the
agreeable recollection of Lord Foxham's promise.

He was disturbed by a touch upon his shoulder.  It was Lawless, pointing
to a small ship that lay somewhat by itself, and within but a little of
the harbour mouth, where it heaved regularly and smoothly on the entering
swell.  A pale gleam of winter sunshine fell, at that moment, on the
vessel's deck, relieving her against a bank of scowling cloud; and in
this momentary glitter Dick could see a couple of men hauling the skiff
alongside.

"There, sir," said Lawless, "mark ye it well!  There is the ship for
to-night."

Presently the skiff put out from the vessel's side, and the two men,
keeping her head well to the wind, pulled lustily for shore.  Lawless
turned to a loiterer.

"How call ye her?" he asked, pointing to the little vessel.

"They call her the Good Hope, of Dartmouth," replied the loiterer.  "Her
captain, Arblaster by name.  He pulleth the bow oar in yon skiff."

This was all that Lawless wanted.  Hurriedly thanking the man, he moved
round the shore to a certain sandy creek, for which the skiff was
heading.  There he took up his position, and as soon as they were within
earshot, opened fire on the sailors of the Good Hope.

"What!  Gossip Arblaster!" he cried.  "Why, ye be well met; nay, gossip,
ye be right well met, upon the rood!  And is that the Good Hope?  Ay, I
would know her among ten thousand!--a sweet shear, a sweet boat!  But
marry come up, my gossip, will ye drink?  I have come into mine estate
which doubtless ye remember to have heard on.  I am now rich; I have left
to sail upon the sea; I do sail now, for the most part, upon spiced ale.
Come, fellow; thy hand upon 't!  Come, drink with an old shipfellow!"

Skipper Arblaster, a long-faced, elderly, weather-beaten man, with a
knife hanging about his neck by a plaited cord, and for all the world
like any modern seaman in his gait and bearing, had hung back in obvious
amazement and distrust.  But the name of an estate, and a certain air of
tipsified simplicity and good-fellowship which Lawless very well
affected, combined to conquer his suspicious jealousy; his countenance
relaxed, and he at once extended his open hand and squeezed that of the
outlaw in a formidable grasp.

"Nay," he said, "I cannot mind you.  But what o' that?  I would drink
with any man, gossip, and so would my man Tom.  Man Tom," he added,
addressing his follower, "here is my gossip, whose name I cannot mind,
but no doubt a very good seaman.  Let's go drink with him and his shore
friend."

Lawless led the way, and they were soon seated in an alehouse, which, as
it was very new, and stood in an exposed and solitary station, was less
crowded than those nearer to the centre of the port.  It was but a shed
of timber, much like a blockhouse in the backwoods of to-day, and was
coarsely furnished with a press or two, a number of naked benches, and
boards set upon barrels to play the part of tables.  In the middle, and
besieged by half a hundred violent draughts, a fire of wreck-wood blazed
and vomited thick smoke.

"Ay, now," said Lawless, "here is a shipman's joy--a good fire and a good
stiff cup ashore, with foul weather without and an off-sea gale a-snoring
in the roof!  Here's to the Good Hope!  May she ride easy!"

"Ay," said Skipper Arblaster, "'tis good weather to be ashore in, that is
sooth.  Man Tom, how say ye to that?  Gossip, ye speak well, though I can
never think upon your name; but ye speak very well.  May the Good Hope
ride easy!  Amen!"

"Friend Dickon," resumed Lawless, addressing his commander, "ye have
certain matters on hand, unless I err?  Well, prithee be about them
incontinently.  For here I be with the choice of all good company, two
tough old shipmen; and till that ye return I will go warrant these brave
fellows will bide here and drink me cup for cup.  We are not like
shore-men, we old, tough tarry-Johns!"

"It is well meant," returned the skipper.  "Ye can go, boy; for I will
keep your good friend and my good gossip company till curfew--ay, and by
St. Mary, till the sun get up again!  For, look ye, when a man hath been
long enough at sea, the salt getteth me into the clay upon his bones; and
let him drink a draw-well, he will never be quenched."

Thus encouraged upon all hands, Dick rose, saluted his company, and going
forth again into the gusty afternoon, got him as speedily as he might to
the Goat and Bagpipes.  Thence he sent word to my Lord Foxham that, so
soon as ever the evening closed, they would have a stout boat to keep the
sea in.  And then leading along with him a couple of outlaws who had some
experience of the sea, he returned himself to the harbour and the little
sandy creek.

The skiff of the Good Hope lay among many others, from which it was
easily distinguished by its extreme smallness and fragility.  Indeed,
when Dick and his two men had taken their places, and begun to put forth
out of the creek into the open harbour, the little cockle dipped into the
swell and staggered under every gust of wind, like a thing upon the point
of sinking.

The Good Hope, as we have said, was anchored far out, where the swell was
heaviest.  No other vessel lay nearer than several cables' length; those
that were the nearest were themselves entirely deserted; and as the skiff
approached, a thick flurry of snow and a sudden darkening of the weather
further concealed the movements of the outlaws from all possible espial.
In a trice they had leaped upon the heaving deck, and the skiff was
dancing at the stern.  The Good Hope was captured.

She was a good stout boat, decked in the bows and amidships, but open in
the stern.  She carried one mast, and was rigged between a felucca and a
lugger.  It would seem that Skipper Arblaster had made an excellent
venture, for the hold was full of pieces of French wine; and in the
little cabin, besides the Virgin Mary in the bulkhead which proved the
captain's piety, there were many lockfast chests and cupboards, which
showed him to be rich and careful.

A dog, who was the sole occupant of the vessel, furiously barked and bit
the heels of the boarders; but he was soon kicked into the cabin, and the
door shut upon his just resentment.  A lamp was lit and fixed in the
shrouds to mark the vessel clearly from the shore; one of the wine pieces
in the hold was broached, and a cup of excellent Gascony emptied to the
adventure of the evening; and then, while one of the outlaws began to get
ready his bow and arrows and prepare to hold the ship against all comers,
the other hauled in the skiff and got overboard, where he held on,
waiting for Dick.

"Well, Jack, keep me a good watch," said the young commander, preparing
to follow his subordinate.  "Ye will do right well."

"Why," returned Jack, "I shall do excellent well indeed, so long as we
lie here; but once we put the nose of this poor ship outside the
harbour--See, there she trembles!  Nay, the poor shrew heard the words,
and the heart misgave her in her oak-tree ribs.  But look, Master Dick!
how black the weather gathers!"

The darkness ahead was, indeed, astonishing.  Great billows heaved up out
of the blackness, one after another; and one after another the Good Hope
buoyantly climbed, and giddily plunged upon the further side.  A thin
sprinkle of snow and thin flakes of foam came flying, and powdered the
deck; and the wind harped dismally among the rigging.

