http://www.pgdp.net. (This book was produced from scanned
images of public domain material from the Google Print
project.)


LADIES' HOME JOURNAL
LIBRARY OF FICTION

THE SPIRIT OF
SWEETWATER

BY

HAMLIN GARLAND

AUTHOR OF
WAYSIDE COURTSHIPS
MAIN-TRAVELED ROADS
PRAIRIE SONGS, ETC.

PHILADELPHIA
CURTIS PUBLISHING
COMPANY

NEW YORK
DOUBLEDAY &
McCLURE CO.

Copyright, 1898, by
HAMLIN GARLAND


TO
JESSIE VIOLA
AND
HARRIET EDITH GARLAND

[Illustration: Hamlin Garland]


_THE MYSTERY OF MOUNTAINS_


       _As the sun sinks
    And the cañons deepening in color
      Add mystery to silence
    Then the lone traveller lying out-stretched
    Beneath the silent pines on some high range
    Watches and listens in ecstasy of fear
      And timorous admiration._

   _In the roar of the stream he catches
    The reminiscent echo of colossal cataracts;
      In the cry of the cliff-bird
    He thinks he hears the eagle's scream
    Or yowl of far-off mountain-lion;
      In the fall of a loose rock
    He fancies the menacing footfall of the grizzly bear;
    And in the black deeps of the lower cañon
      His dreaming eyes detect once more
    Prodigious lines of buffalo crawling snake-wise
        Athwart the stream,
      Or files of Indian warriors
    Winding downward to the distant plain,
      Where camp-fires gleam like stars._


Part I


The Spirit of Sweetwater

CHAPTER I


One spring day a young man of good mental furnishing and very slender
purse walked over the shoulder of Mount Mogallon and down the trail to
Gold Creek. He walked because the stage fare seemed too high.

Two years and four months later he was pointed out to strangers by the
people of Sweetwater Springs. "That is Richard Clement, the sole owner
of 'The Witch,' a mine valued at three millions of dollars." This in
itself was truly an epic.

Sweetwater Springs was a village in a cañon, out of which rose two
wonderful springs of water whose virtues were known throughout the
land. The village was wedged in the cañon which ran to the mighty
breast of Mogallon like a fold in a king's robe.

The village and its life centered around the pavilion which roofed the
spring, and Clement spent his evenings there in order to see the
people, at least, as they joyously thronged about the music-stand and
sipped the beautiful water which the Utes long, long ago called "sweet
water," and visited with reverence and hope of returning health.

Since the coming of his great wealth Clement had not allowed himself a
day's vacation, and he had grown ten years older in that time. There
were untimely signs of age in his hair and in the troubled lines of
his face. He was a young man, but he looked a strong and stern and
careworn man to those whose attention was called to him. He was a
conscientious man, and the possession of great wealth was not without
its gravities.

For the first time he felt it safe to leave his mine in other hands.
He had a longing to mix with his kind once more, and in his heart was
the secret hope that somewhere among the women of the Springs he might
find a girl to take to wife. He arranged his vacation for July, not
because it was ever hot at the Creek, but because he knew the Springs
swarmed at that time with girls from the States. It would have
troubled him had any one put these ideas into words and accused him of
really seeking a bride.

He was a self-unconscious man naturally, and he hardly realized yet
how widely his name had gone as the possessor of millions. He supposed
himself an unnoticed atom as he stood at the spring on the second
night of his stay in the village. Of a certainty many did not know
him, but they saw him, for he was a striking figure--a handsome
figure--though that had never concerned him. He was, in fact, feeling
his own insignificance.

He was standing there in shadow looking out somberly upon the streams
of people as they came to take their evening draught at the wonderful
water of the effervescing spring. The sun had gone behind the high
peaks to the west, and a delicious, dry coolness was in the cañon.

It seemed to Clement to be a very fashionable and leisurely throng--so
long had he been absent from people either modish or easeful. He felt
himself to be hopelessly outside all this youth and brilliancy and
merriment, and he looked upon it all with a certain wistfulness.

He perceived at length that the strollers were not all of the same
conditions. There were rough, brown cow-boys from La Junta and Cajon,
and miners in rough dress down from the gulches for a night, but
mainly the promenaders appealed to him with elegance of dress and
manner.

Many of the ladies came without hats, which added to the charm of
their eyes and hair. Some of them looked twice at the tall man with
the big mustache and broad hat, who seemed to be watching for some
tardy friend.

As he studied them his memory freshened and he came to understand them
better. He analyzed them into familiar types. This was a banker and
his wife from some small town--the wife fussy and consequential, the
husband coldly dignified. This group was composed of a doctor and his
daughters. Behind them came a merchant from some Nebraska town--he
rough of exterior, his children dainty of dress and very pretty.
Occasionally a group of college-bred girls came up without
escort--alert, self-helpful and serene. They saw Clement at once, and
studied him carefully as they drank their beauty cup at the circular
bench before the spring. All good-looking men had interest to them.

All classes came, a varied stream, yet they were Western, and of the
well-to-do condition for the larger part.

The deft boy swung the glasses of water on his tripartite dipper with
ceaseless splash and clink. There was a pleasant murmur of talk in
which an Eastern listener would have heard the "r" sound
well-defined. There were many couples seated about the pavilion on the
benches and railings. It was all busy yet tranquil. Each loiterer had
fed, had taken his draught of healing water--and this was the hour of
pleasant gossip and repose. Clement fell at last to analyzing the
action of the boy who supplied the water at the pool. He slammed the
glasses into the pool, and set them on the bench with a click as
regular as a pump. Occasionally, however, he was indifferent. With
some of his customers he handled the glasses as if they contained
nectar, thus indicating his generous patrons. Once he stopped and
dipped the glass into the pool with his own hand--a doubtful
action--and extended it with a bow to a young lady who said "thank
you" so sweetly that he blushed and stammered in reply.

All this fixed Clement's attention, and as the young girl lifted the
glass in her slim hand he wondered how she had escaped his notice for
a single moment. A woman at his side said sighfully, "There is that
consumptive girl again, she hasn't long to stay." She was as pale, as
fragile, and as lovely as the mountain columbine. Her face was thin,
and her head shapely, but her eyes! They burned like rarest
topaz--deep, dark and sad. Clement shivered as he felt them fixed upon
him, and yet he could not turn away as he should have done.

He gazed at her with a sudden feeling which was not awe, nor
compassion, nor love, but was all of these. He felt in his soul the
subtlest sadness in all the world--the sadness of a strong man who
looks upon a beautiful young girl who is dying.

Extremest languor was in every movement. She was dressed in dark, soft
garments--very simple and graceful in effect, and her bearing was that
of one accustomed to willing service from others. Her smile was as sad
as her eyes which had in them the death-shadow.

Clement's action, the unwavering self-forgetful intentness of his
look, arrested her attention, and she returned his gaze for an
instant, and then turned away and took the arm of an elderly gentleman
who stood beside her. She moved slowly, as an invalid walks when for
the first time she is permitted a short walk in the outdoor air,
leaning heavily on her companion.

The big miner roused himself and stood straight and tall, hesitating
whether to follow or not--a sudden singular pain in his heart, as if
he were losing something very close to his life.

He obeyed the impulse to follow, and moved down the path, just out of
reach of observation, he fancied. As he made way through the crowd he
grew aware again of his heavy limbs, of his great height, of his
swinging, useless hands. It had been so long since he had mingled with
a holiday company, he appeared as self-conscious as a boy.

Once the fair invalid turned and looked back, but she was too far away
for him to discern the expression of her face. He was not possessed
of self-esteem enough to believe she had turned to look for him.

He followed them in their slow pace till they turned in at the doorway
of the principal hotel of the village. They entered at the ladies'
door while he kept on to the main entrance and rotunda. There was no
elevator in the house, and the invalid paused a moment before
attempting the stairway. It was pitiful to see her effort to make
light of it all to her companion, who was quite evidently her father.
She smiled at him even while she pressed one slim hand against her
bosom.

Clement longed to take her in his arms and carry her up the
stairway--it seemed the thing most worth doing in all the world--but
he could only lean against the desk and see them go slowly stair by
stair out of sight.

"Who are they?" he asked of the clerk whom he detected also watching
them with almost the same breathless interest.

"Chicago merchant, G. B. Ross. That's his daughter. She's pretty far
gone--consumption, I reckon. It looks tough to see a girl like that go
off. You'd think now----"

Clement did not remain to hear the clerk moralize further; he went
immediately to his own hotel, paid his bill, and ordered his baggage
sent to the other house. He wondered at himself for this overpowering
interest in a sick girl, and at his plan to see her again.

He reasoned that he would be able to see her at breakfast time,
provided she came down to breakfast, and provided he hit upon the same
hour of eating. He began to calculate upon the probable hour when she
would come down. It was astounding how completely she occupied his
thought already.

He struck off up the cañon where no sound was, other than the roar of
the wild little stream which seemed to lift its voice in wilder clamor
as the night fell. Its presence helped him to think out his situation.
He had grown self-analytical during his life in the camp, where he
was alone so far as his finer feelings were concerned, and he had come
to believe in many strange things which he said nothing about to any
friend he had.

He had come to believe in fate and also in intuition. A powerful
impulse to do he counted higher than reason. That is to say, if he had
a powerful impulse to run a shaft in a certain direction he would so
act, no matter if his reason declared dead against it. The hidden and
uncontrollable processes of his mind had given him the secret of "The
Witch's" gold, had led him right in his shafting and in his selection
of friends and assistants--and had made him a millionaire at
thirty-seven years of age. He was prone to over-value the intuitional
side of his nature, probably--an error common among practical men.

Fate was, with him, luck raised to a higher power. What was to be
would be; the unexpected happened; the expected, hoped for, labored
for, did not always happen. All around him men stumbled upon mines,
while other men, more skilful, more observant, failed. The luck was
against them.

It was quite in harmony with his nature that he should be absorbed in
the singular and powerful impulse he had to seek an acquaintance with
that poor dying girl.

Dying! At that word he rebelled. God would not take so beautiful a
creature away from earth; men needed her to teach them gentleness and
submission. More than this, he had an almost uncontrollable impulse to
go to her, and putting aside doctors say to her:

"I am the one to heal you."

He had never had an impulse to heal before, but the fact that it was
unaccountable and powerful and definite, fitted in with his successes.
He gave it careful thought. It must mean something because it had
never come to him before, and because it rose out of the mysterious
depths of his brain.

She must not die! The wind, the mountains, the clear air, the good,
sweet water, the fragrant pines, the splendid sun--these things must
help her. "And I, perhaps I, too, can help her?"

Back in the glare of the hotel rotunda, with its rows of bored men
sitting stolidly smoking, idly talking, his impulse and his resolution
seemed very unmanly and preposterous. It is so easy to lose faith in
the elemental in the midst of the superficial and ephemeral of daily
habit.


CHAPTER II


Clement was an early riser, and, notwithstanding his restless night,
was astir at six. The whole world had changed for him. It was no
longer a question of ore and amalgams, it was a question of when he
should see again that sad, slender woman with the hopeless smile.

He had now a great fear that she would not be able to come down to
breakfast at all, but as her coming was his only hope of seeing her he
clung to it. Eight o'clock seemed to him to be the latest hour that
any one not absolutely bedridden would think of breakfasting, and at
four minutes past the hour he entered the dining-room.

The negro waiter tried to seat him near the door, but he pushed on
down the hall toward a little group near one of the sunny windows,
which he took to be the sick girl and her father, and so it proved.

His seat at a table next to theirs brought her profile between him
and the window, and the light around her head seemed to glorify her
till she shone like a figure in a church window. She seemed not
concerned with earth. He was more deeply moved than ever before in his
life, but he concealed it--the only sign of emotion was in the tremor
of his hands.

He studied the sick girl as closely as he could without seeming to
stare. She was even more lovely than he had thought. His eyes,
accustomed only to rough women, found in her beauty that which was
flower-like, seraphic.

Her face was very thin, and her neck too slender to uphold the heavy
masses of her brown hair. Her hands were only less expressive of
suffering than her face. The father was as bluff and portly and
irascible as she was patient and gentle. He bullied the waiter because
he did not know how else to express his anxiety.

"Waiter, this steak is burned--it's hard as sole leather. Take it back
and bring me----"

"Please don't, father; the trouble is with me. I have no desire for
food." She smiled at the waiter so sweetly that he nodded as if to
say, "I don't mind him, miss."

The father turned his attention to the country.

"Yes, there is another fraud. I was told it would help your appetite,
and here you are with less than when you left Hot Springs. If I'd had
my way----"

She laid a hand on his arm, and when he turned toward her his eyes
were dim with tears. He blew his nose and coughed, and looked away
after the manner of men, and suffered in silence.

"I know I love in vain, and strive against hope; yet into this
_insatiable_ and _unretaining_ sieve I still pour in the waters of my
love, and fail not to lose still."
I said that the sense of _fallacious_ seemed to be too refined and
recondite. To believe that Shakspeare borrowed his _captious_ in
this sense, from the Latin _captiosus_, we must suppose that he was
well acquainted with the exact sense of the Latin word; a supposition
which, in regard to a man who had _small Latin_, we can scarcely
be justified in entertaining.

This interpretation is, therefore, too recondite: and to imagine Helena
as applying the word to Bertram as being "_incapable of receiving_
her love," and "truly _captious_" (or deceitful and ensnaring) "in
that respect," is surely to indulge in too much refinement of
exposition.

That Shakspeare had in his mind, as MR. SINGER {66} suggests, the
punishment of the Danaides, is extremely probable; but this only makes
the explanation of _captious_ in the sense of _absorbent_ more
applicable to the passage, with which that of Seneca, quoted above,
may be aptly compared.

I am sorry that Johnson was so unfortunate as to propose _carious_
as an emendation; but even in doing this, he had, according to my notion
of the lines, the right sense in view, viz., that of _letting through_
or _swallowing up_, like a rotten tub or a quicksand.

I hope that MR.

SINGER will take these remarks in good part, as being offered, not
from a wish to oppose his opinion, but from a conviction that
the interpretation now given is right, and from a desire that to every
word in Shakspeare should be assigned its true signification.

J.S.W.

Stockwell.

* * * * *
SWORD OF WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR.

(Vol. iii., p. 24.)
There can be little doubt that the sword respecting which P. inquires
is in the armoury at Goodrich Court.

It was presented by Lord Viscount Gage to the late Sir Samuel Meyrick,
and exhibited by Dr. Meyrick to the Society of Antiquaries, Nov.
23. 1826. The Doctor's letter is to be found in the Appendix to
the _Archæologia_ of that date, with an engraving of the sword.

He states that the arms on the pommel are those of Battle Abbey, that
its date is about A.D. 1430, and that it was the symbol of the criminal
jurisdiction of the abbot.

At the dissolution of the abbey it fell into the hands of Sir John
Gage, who was one of the commissioners for taking the surrender of
religious houses.

Its entire length is 3 feet 5 inches, and the breadth of the blade at
the guard 2 inches. The Doctor considers it to be "the oldest
perfect sword in England." The arms are a cross, with a crown in the
first and last quarters, and a sword in the second and third.

There are also the letters T.L., the initials of the Abbot,
Thomas de Lodelow, who held that office from 1417 to 1437. This fixes
its date in the reign of Henry V., though the fact of the first
William having been the founder of Battle Abbey has given colour
to the tradition of its having been his property.

W.J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

I much doubt the fact of the Conqueror's sword ever having been in the
possession of the monks of Battle. Nor am I aware of any writer
contemporary with the dissolution of that famous abbey who asserts
it.
William's royal robe, adorned with precious gems, and a feretory
in the form of an altar, inclosing 300 relics of the saints, were
bequeathed by him to the monastery; and Rufus transmitted them to
Battle, where they were duly received on the 8th of the calends of
November, 1088.

This information is furnished by the _Chronicle of Battel Abbey_, which
I have just translated for the press; but not one word is said of
the sword.

Though I have always lived within a few miles of Firle Place, the
seat of the Gages, and though I am tolerably well acquainted with
the history and traditions of that noble family, I never heard of
the sword mentioned by P.

Had that relic really been preserved at Battle till the time of
Henry VIII., it is not improbable that it might have come into Sir
John Gage's hands with the manor of Aleiston, of which he was
grantee, while his son-in-law, Sir Anthony Browne, became possessor
of the abbey itself.

Will P. have the goodness to mention the source from which he obtained
his statement?

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

In reply to the Query respecting the sword of William the Conqueror
(Vol.
iii., p. 24.), I am enabled to inform you that the sword, and also
the coronation robes, of William the Conqueror, were, together with
the original "Roll of Battel," kept in the church or chapel of
Battel Abbey until it was dismantled at the Reformation; when they
were transferred to the part of the abbey which remained, and which
became the possession and habitation of Sir Anthony Browne, Master
of the Horse to Henry VIII.

These precious relics continued in the possession of his descendants,
who were created Lords Mountacute; and when Battel Abbey was sold
by them to the ancestor of the present owner, they conveyed them
to Cowdray Park, Sussex, where they remained until they were destroyed
in the lamentable fire which burned down that mansion; and which,
by a singular coincidence, took place on the same day that its
owner, the last male representative of the Brownes Lords Mountacute,
was drowned in a rash attempt to descend the falls of Schaffhausen
in a boat.

E.H.Y.

* * * * *
MEANING OF EISELL.

(Vol. ii., pp. 241. 286. 315. 329)

After all that has been written on this subject in "NOTES AND QUERIES,"
from MR. SINGER'S proposition of wormwood in No. 46., to MR. HICKSON'S
approval of it in No. 51., the question remains substantially where
Steevens and Malone had left it so many years agone.

It is not necessary to discuss whether vinegar, verjuice, or wormwood
be the preferable translation of the Shakspearian word; for before
either of them can be received, the advocate is bound to {67} accommodate
his exposition to Shakspeare's sentence, and to "get over the _drink
up_," which still stands in his way as it did in that of Malone.

MR. SINGER get over the difficulty by simply saying "to _drink up_
was commonly used for simply to _drink_." The example he quotes,
however,--

"I will drink Potions of eysell,"--
is not to his purpose; it is only an equivalent by the addition of the
words "_potions of_" to give it the same definite character. Omit those
words, and the question remains as before.

MR.

HICKSON (Vol. ii., p. 329.) has laid down "a canon of criticism for
the guidance of commentators in questions of this nature," so
appropriate and valuable, that I cannot except to be bound by it
in these remarks; and if in the sequel his own argument (and his
friend's proposition to boot) shall be blown up by his own petard,
it will show the instability of the cause he has espoused.

"Master the _grammatical construction_ of the passage in question
(if from a drama, in it dramatic and scenic application), deducing
therefrom the general sense, before you attempt to amend or fix
the meaning of a doubtful word."

Such is the canon; and Mr. HICKSON proceeds to observe, in language that
must meet the approval of every student of the immortal bard,
that--
"Of all writers, none exceed Shakspeare in _logical correctness_
and nicety of expression.

With a vigour of though and command of language attained by no man
besides, it is fair to conclude, that _he would not be guilty of
faults of construction such as would disgrace a schoolboy's
composition_."

With this canon so ably laid down, and these remarks so apposite,
MR.

HICKSON, taking up the weak point which Mr. SINGER had slurred over,
observes--
"_Drink up_ is synonymous with _drink off_, _drink to the dregs_.

A child taking medicine is urged to 'drink it up.'"
Ay, exactly so; drink up what?

_the_ medicine; again a defined quantity; dregs and all,--still a
_definite_ quantity.

MR. HICKSON proceeds:

"The idea of the passage appears to be that each of the acts should
go beyond the last preceding in extravagance.

'Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Woo't drink up eisell?'
and then comes the climax--'eat a crocodile?' Here is a regular
succession of feats, the last but one of which is sufficiently
wild, though not unheard of, and leading to the crowning extravagance.

The notion of drinking up a river would be both unmeaning and out of
place."

From this argument two conclusions are the natural consequences: first,
that from _drinking up_ wormwood,--a feat "sufficiently wild
but not unheard of," to eating a crocodile, is only a "regular
succession of events;" and, secondly, that the "crowning extravagance,"
to eat a crocodile, is, after all, neither "unmeaning" nor "out of
place;" but, on the contrary, quite in keeping and in orderly
succession to a "drink up" of the bitter infusion.

MR. SINGER (vol. ii., p. 241.) says:

"Numerous passages of our old dramatic writers show that it was a fashion
with the gallants of the time to do some extravagant feat as proof of
their love."
I quite agree with him, if he mean to say that the early dramatists
ascribe to their gallants a fashion which in reality belongs to the
age of Du Gueslin and the Troubadours. But Hamlet himself, in
the context of the passage in question, gives the key to his whole
purport, when, after some further extravagance, he says:
"Nay, an thoul't mouth, I'll rant as well as thou."

That being so, why are we to conclude that each feat of daring is to
be a tame possibility, save only the last--the crowning extravagance?
Why not also the one preceding? Why not a feat equally of mere verbiage
and rant?
Why not a river?

Adopting MR.

HICKSON'S canon of criticism, the grammatical construction of the
passage requires that a definite substantive shall be employed to
explain the definite something that is to be done. Shakspeare says--

"Woul't drink up esile?"[9]
--a totality in itself, without the expression of quantity to make
it definite.

If we read "drink up wormwood," what does it imply? It may be the
smallest possible quantity,--an ordinary dose of bitters; or a pailful,
which would perhaps meet the "madness" of Hamlet's daring. Thus the
little monosyllable "up" must be disposed of, or a quantity must be
expressed to reconcile MR. SINGER'S proposition with Mr. HICKSON'S
canon and the grammatical sense of Shakspeare's line.

If with Steevens we understand _esile_ to be a river, "the Danish
river _Oesil_, which empties itself into the Baltic," the _Yssel_,
_Wessel_, or any other river, real or fictitious, the sense is clear.
Rather let Shakspeare have committed a geographical blunder on the
information of his day, than break {68} Priscian's head by modern
interpretation of his words.

If we read "_drink up esile_" as one should say, "_woul't drink up
Thames?

_"--a task as reasonably impossible as setting it on fire (nevertheless
a proverbial expression of a thirsty soul, "He'll drink the Thames
dry"),--the task is quite in keeping with the whole tenor of
Hamlet's extravagant rant.

H.K.S.C.

Brixton.

[Footnote 6: So the folio, according to my copy.

It would be advantageous, perhaps, to note the spelling in the earliest
edition of the sonnet whence MR. SINGER quotes "_potions of eysell_:"
a difference, if there be any, would mark the distinction between
Hamlet's river and the Saxon derivative.]
* * * * *

ALTAR LIGHTS, ETC.

(Vol. ii., p. 495. Vol. iii., p. 30.)
The following passage from the works of a deeply pious and learned
Caroline Divine, which I have never before seen quoted, merits, I
think, a place in "NOTES AND QUERIES:"--
"As our Lord himself, so his Gospel also, is called Light, and was
therefore anciently never read without a burning taper, '_etiam
Sole rutilante_' ('tis Saint Hierome's testimony), though it were
lighted in the sun....

The careful Church, perceiving that God was so much taken with this
outward symbol of the Light, could do no less than go on with the
ceremony. Therefore, the day of Our Lord's nativity was to be called
[Greek: epiphania], or, appearing of the Light; and so many tapers
were to be set up the night before, as might give name to the vigil,
'_Vigilia Luminum_'. And the ancients did well to send lights one to
another, whatsoever some think of the Christmas candle. The receiving
of this Light in Baptism, though called not usually so, but [Greek:
phôtismos], Illumination, which further to betoken the rites, were
to celebrate this sacrament [Greek: haptomenôn pantôn tôn kêrôn],
etc., with all the tapers lighted, etc., as the order in the
Euchologus.

The Neophytus, also, or new convert, received a Taper lighted and
delivered by the Mystagogus, which for the space of seven days after,
he was to hold in his hand at Divine service, sitting in the Baptistery.

"Who perceiveth not that by this right way the Tapers came into the
Church, mysteriously placed with the Gospel upon the altar as an
emblem of the Truer Light?...

"The Funeral Tapers (however thought of by some) are of the same
harmless import. Their meaning is, to show that the departed souls
are not quite put out, but having walked here as the Children of the
Light, are now going to walk before God in the Light of the Living.
The sun never rose to the ancients, no, not so much as a candle was
lighted, but of this signification. '_Vincamus_' was their word,
whensoever the Lights came in; [Greek: phôs gar tên Nikên], etc.,
for Light (saith Phavorinus) betokeneth victory.

It was to show what trust they put in the Light, in whom we are
more than conquerors.

Our meaning is the same when, at the bringing in of a candle, we use
to put ourselves in mind of the Light of Heaven: which those who
list to call superstition do but 'darken counsel by words without
knowledge.'

_Job_ xxxviii.

2."--Gregorie's _Works_, 4th ed. p. 110. Lond. 1684.

I believe it is a fact, that in some churches (I hope not many)
lamps or candles are placed on the altar _unlighted_ during divine
service.

Now I would not quarrel with persons who have objections to altar lights,
&c., but I have no patience with that worse than superstition which
would place _unlighted_ candles on the altar,--if they symbolize
any thing, it is damnation, excommunication, misery, and dark woe.

Coming out of a church one time in which unlighted candles were
ostentatiously displayed, I was forcibly reminded of an hieroglyphical
of Quarles--an extinguished taper,--and under it the words, "_Sine
lumine inane_."

"How canst thou be useful to the sight?
What is the taper not endued with light?"
I can hardly refrain from quoting here a beautiful passage from
Wordsworth:

"Our ancestors within the still domain Of vast cathedral, or
conventual gloom, Their vigils kept: when tapers day and night On
the dim altar burn'd continually, In token that the house was
evermore Watching to God.

Religious men were they, Nor would their reason, tutor'd to aspire
Above this transitory world, allow That there should pass a moment
of the year When in their land the Almighty's service ceased."

    Any communication of interest of
    the above subject will much oblige
    JARLTZBERG.
    
        * * * * *

    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.
    
    _Handbell before a Corpse_ (Vol. ii., p.
    478.).--It is usual, at the funeral
        of any member of the University of Oxford, for the University
marshal and bellman to attend in the character of _mutes_.

    As the procession moves along, the latter
    rings his bell at about half-minute time.
    I have witnessed it also when the deceased
    has been one of the family of a member
        of the University, and when he has been a matriculated person.

               I have never considered it as anything but _a cast of the bellman's
office_, to add more solemnity to the occasion.

[Hebrew: b].

L---- Rectory. Somerset.

_Sir George Downing_ (Vol. ii., pp. 464. 497.).--It may assist
your querist "ALPHA," to be informed that among the monuments to the
family of Pengelly, in the church of Whitchurch near Tavistock,
in the county of Devon, is one to the memory of Ann, wife of Francis
Pengelly, and daughter of Sir George Downing of East Hatley in the
county of Cambridge, who died the 23rd of November, 1702; with the
arms of Pengelly impaling Barry of six argent and gules, over all
a wyvern or--for Downing. {69}
Nicholas Downing of Exeter College, vicar of Kingsteignton, in
Devon, who died in 1666, and was buried there, seems to have been
of another family, as he bore a very different coat of arms.

A Lieut. Downing was buried in Charles church, Plymouth, in 1799,
but the arms on his monument are not the same as either of the
above.

Other than these, I know of none of the name, ancient or recent, in
the county, and I shall be glad to learn on what ground Sir George
Downing's family is said to be of most ancient origin in Devonshire.
The name does not appear in Westcote, Pole, Prince, Risdon, or the
Heralds' visitations, and the modern authorities state that the
family was from Essex or Norfolk.

J.D.S.

The following memorandum I found accidentally on the margin of a
MS.
pedigree of Downing, but I am sorry I cannot recall the source from
whence I obtained it.

Possibly, however, it may assist "ALPHA" in his enquiry.

"Sir George Downing was not the son of Calibut Downing, rector of
Hackney, but of Emmanuel Downing, a London merchant, who went to New
England. Governor Hutchinson, in his _History of Massachusetts_, gives
the true account of Downing's affiliation, which has been further
confirmed by Mr.

Savage, of Boston, from the public records of New England."
J.P.C.

_Hulls, the Inventor of Steam-boats_ (Vol. iii., p. 23.).

--Your facetious correspondent, NOCAB, may gain some information
relative to his friend Jonathan Hulls, by going to the British
Museum, and asking for the following book from Mr.

Grenville's library.

I will give the full title and Mr. Grenville's note, as it stands in my
Catalogue of the library.

GRENVILLE CATALOGUE (Vol. i. p. 351.)
"Hulls, Jonathan. A Description and Draught of a new-invented Machine
for carrying vessels or ships out of, or into any harbour, port,
or river, against wind and tide, or in a calm.

For which his Majesty has granted letters patent, for the sole benefit
of the Author, for the space of Fourteen years. London, 1737, folding
plate.[10] 8vo.

R.[11]
"This new invented machine is a steam-boat.

As they walked side by side slowly--she, not
without considerable effort--up toward the spring, he said abruptly,
but tenderly:

"You must think you're better--that's half the battle. See that
stream? Some day I'm going to show you where it starts. Do you know if
you drink of that water up at its source above timber-line it will
cure you?"

She saw his intent and said, "I'm afraid I'll be cured before I get to
the spring."

"I'm going to make it my aim in life to see you drink at that pool."
His directness and simplicity stimulated her like some mediæval
elixir. He made her forget her pain. They did not talk much until they
were seated on one of the benches near the fountain.

"Sit in the sun," he commanded. "Don't be afraid of the sun. You hear
people talk about the sun's rays breeding disease. The sun never does
that. It gives life. Beware of the shadow," he added, and she knew he
meant her mental indifference. They had a long talk on the bench. He
told her of his family, of himself.

"You see," he said, "father had only a small business, though he
managed to educate me, and, later, my brother. But when he died it had
less value, for I couldn't hold the trade he had and times were
harder. I kept brother at college during his last two years, and when
he came out I gave the business to him and got out. He was about to
marry, and the business wouldn't support us both. I was always
inclined to adventure anyway. Gold Creek was in everybody's mouth, so
I came here.

"Oh, that was a wonderful time; the walk across the mountains was like
a story to me. I liked the newness of everything in the camp. It was
glorious to hear the hammers ringing, and see the new pine buildings
going up--and the tent and shanties. It was rough here then, but I had
little to do with that. I staked out my claim and went to digging. I
knew very little about mining, but they were striking it all around
me, and so I kept on. Besides"--here he looked at her in a curiously
shy way--"I've always had a superstition that just when things were
worst with me they were soonest to turn to the best, so I dug away. My
tunnel went into the hill on a slight upraise, and I could do the work
alone. You see I had so little money I didn't want to waste a cent.

"But it all went at last for powder and the sharpening of picks, and
for assaying--till one morning in August I found myself without money
and without food."

He paused there, and his face grew dark with remembered despair, and
she shuddered.

"It must be terrible to be without food and money."

"No one knows what it means till he experiences it. I worked all day
without food. It seemed as if I must strike it then. Besides, I took a
sort of morbid pleasure in abusing myself--as if I were to blame. I
had been living on canned beans, and flapjacks, and coffee without
milk or sugar, and I was weak and sick--but it all had to end. About
four o'clock I dropped my pick and staggered out to the light. It was
impossible to do anything more."

There were tears in her eyes now, for his voice unconsciously took on
the anguish of that despair.

"I sat there looking out toward the mountains and down on the camp.
The blasts were booming from all hills--the men were going home with
their dinner-pails flashing red in the setting sun's light. It was
terrible to think of them going home to supper. It seemed impossible
that I should be sitting there starving, and the grass so green, the
sunset so beautiful. I can see it all now as it looked then, the old
Sangre de Christo range! It was like a wall of glistening marble that
night.

"Well, I sat there till my hunger gnawed me into action. Then I
staggered down the trail. I saw how foolish I had been to go on day
after day hoping, hoping until the last cent was gone. I hadn't money
enough to pay the extra postage on a letter which was at the office.
The clerk gave me the letter and paid the shortage himself. The letter
was from my sister, telling me how peaceful and plentiful life was at
home, and it made me crazy. She asked me how many nuggets I had found.
You can judge how that hurt me. I reeled down the street, for I must
eat or die, I knew that."

"Oh, how horrible!" the girl said softly.

"There was one eating-house at which I always took my supper. It was
kept by an Irish woman, a big, hearty woman whose husband was a
prospector--or had been. 'Biddy Kelly's' was famous for its 'home
cooking.' I went by the door twice, for I couldn't bring myself to go
in and ask for a meal. You don't know how hard that is--it's very
queer, if a man has money he can ask for credit or a meal, but if he
is broke he'll starve first. I could see Biddy waiting on the
tables--the smell that came out was the most delicious, yet
tantalizing, odor of beef-stew--it made me faint with hunger."

His voice grew weak and his throat dry as he spoke.

"When I did enter, Dan looked up and said respectfully, 'Good-evenin',
Mr. Clement,' and I felt so ashamed of my errand I turned to run.
Everything whirled then--and when I got my bearings again Dan had me
on one arm and Biddy was holding a bowl of soup to my lips."

The girl sighed. "Oh, she was good, wasn't she?"

"They fed me, for they could see I was starving, and I told them
about the mine--and, well, some way I got them to 'grub-stake' me that
night."

"What is that?"

"That is, they agreed to furnish me food and money for tools and share
in profits. Dan went to work with me, and do you know, it ended in
ruining them both. We organized a company called the 'Biddy Mining
Company.' I was president, and Dan was vice-president, and Biddy was
treasurer. Biddy kept us going by her eating-house, but eventually we
wanted machinery, and we mortgaged the eating-house, and the money
went into that hole in the ground. But I knew we would succeed. I
could hear voices call me, 'Come, come!'--whenever I was alone I could
hear them plainly."

His eyes, turned upon her, were full of mystery.

"I have always felt the stir of life around me in the dark, and there
in that mine--after we struck the spring of water--I thought I heard
voices all the time in the plash of the water. I suppose it seemed
like insanity, for I ruined Dan and Biddy without mercy. I couldn't
stop. I was sure if we could only hold out a little while we would
reach it. But we didn't. Biddy had to go to work as a cook, and Dan
and I went out to try to borrow some money. I couldn't bear to let in
somebody else after all the heat and toil Dan and Biddy and I had
endured, but it had to be done. We took in a fellow from Iowa by the
name of Eldred and went to work again.

"One day after our blast I was the first to enter, and the moment that
I saw the heap of rock I knew we had opened the vein. My wildest
dreams were realized!"

"And then your troubles ended," the girl said tenderly.

"No--for now a strange thing happened. The assayer tried our ore again
and again and found it very rich, but when we shipped to the mills we
got almost no returns. We tried every process, but the gold seemed to
slip away from us. Finally I took a carload and went with it to see
what was the matter. I followed it till it came out on the
plates--that is where they catch the gold by the use of quicksilver
spread on copper plates--and it seemed all right. I scraped some of it
up and put it into a small vial to take home with me. When I got home
the company assembled to hear my report, and when I took out the
amalgam to show it to them it had turned to a queer yellow-green
liquid. I was astounded, but Dan and Biddy crossed themselves. 'It's
witch's gold,' Biddy said. 'Dan, have no more to do with it.' And
witch's gold it was. They gave up right there and went back to work in
the camp. Eldred cursed me for getting him into it, and so they left
me to fight it out alone. I was like a monomaniac--I never thought of
giving up. I begged a little money from my brother and bought in all
the stock of the 'Biddy Mining Company,' and went to work to solve the
mystery of the amalgam. I was a good pupil in chemistry at college,
and I put my whole life and brain into that mystery and I solved it. I
found a way to treat it so all the gold was saved. That made me rich.
I called the mine 'The Witch,' and it has made me what you see."

"It is like a fairy tale! What became of your faithful friends, Dan
and Biddy?"

"I made Dan my foreman of the mine, and I built an eating-house and
hotel for Biddy. They are with me yet. Eldred I bought out on the same
terms as the rest."

He had a sudden sensation of heat in his face as he passed the chasm
between the withdrawal of Dan and Biddy from the firm and his solution
of the amalgam. He did not care to dwell upon that, because Eldred had
sued him to recover his stock, claiming that it was bought in under
false pretenses. Neither did he care to enter into the stormy time
which followed the sudden leap of "The Witch" from a haunted hole in
the ground to a cave of diamonds. He hurried on to the end while she
listened in absorbed interest like a child to a wonder story.

She sighed in the world-old manner of women and said:

"And I--I have done nothing worth telling. I ruined my health by
careless living at school, and here I am, a cumberer of the earth."

Some men would have hastened to be complimentary, but Clement remained
silent. He was trying to understand her mood that he might meet it in
a helpful way.

"But if I am permitted to live I shall be different. I will do
something."

"First of all, get well," he said, and his words had the force of a
command. "Give me your hand."

She complied, and he took it in a firm clasp. "Now I want you to
promise me you'll turn your mind from darkness to the light, from the
cañons to the peaks--that you will determine to live. Do you
promise?"

"I promise."

"Very well. I shall see that you keep that promise."


CHAPTER II


It was rather curious to see that as she grew in strength Clement lost
in assertiveness--in his feeling of command. He began to comprehend
that with returning health the girl was not altogether pitiable. She
had culture, social position and wealth.

The distinction of his readily-acquired millions grew to be a very
poor possession in his own mind--in fact, he came at last to such
self-confessed utter poverty of mind and body that he wondered at her
continued toleration. He ceased to plead any special worthiness on his
own part and began to throw himself on her mercy.

As the time came on when she no longer needed his arm for support he
found it hard to offer it as an act of gallantry. In fact, in that
small act was typified the change which he came ultimately to assume.
At first she had seemed to him like an angelic child. Death's shadows
had made him bold--but now he could not deceive himself: he was coming
to love her in a very human and definite fashion. He dared not refer
to the past in any way, and his visits grew more and more formal and
carefully accounted for.

She thought she understood all this, and was serenely untroubled by
it. She brooded over the problem with dreamful lips and half-shut
eyes. She was drifting back to life on a current of mountain air
companioned by splendid clouds, and her content was like to the
lotus-eater's languor--it held no thought of time or tide.

That she idealized him was true, but he grew richly in grace. All the
small amenities of conduct which he once possessed came back to him.
He studied to please her, and succeeded in that as in his other
ventures. He did not exactly abandon his business, but he came to
superintend his superintendents.

However, he attached a telephone to his mine in order to be able to
direct his business from the Springs. He still roomed at the hotel,
though Ellice was living in a private house farther up the cañon. His
rooms were becoming filled with books and magazines, and he was
struggling hard to "catch up" with the latest literature.

If Ellice referred to any book, even in the most casual way, he made
mental note of it, and if he had read it he re-read it, and if he had
not read it he secured it at once.

"I know something of chemistry and mineralogy, and geology and milling
processes, but of art and literature very little," he said to her
once. "But give me time."

The highest peaks were white with September snows before she felt able
to mount a horse. Each day she had been able to go a little farther
and climb a little higher. Her gain was slow, very slow, but it was
almost perceptible from day to day.

Mr. Ross had been to Chicago, and was once more at the Springs. He
had brought a couple of nieces, very lively young creatures, who
annoyed Clement exceedingly by their impertinence--at least, that is
what he called their excessive interest in his affairs. Without the
co-operation of Ellice he would have found little chance to see her
alone, but she had a quiet way of letting them know when she found
them a burden, which they respected.

One day he said to her, "Have you forgotten what I said to you about
the spring up there?"

"No, I have not forgotten. Do you think I can go now? Am I really well
enough to go?"

"The time has come."

"What would the doctor say?"

"The doctor--do you still heed what he says?"

"Must I walk?"

"Yes, to have the water heal you. But I will lead old Wisconse for you
to ride down."

"After I am healed?"

"One can be cured and yet be tired."

They set off in such spirits as children have, old Wisconse leading
soberly behind.

Clement was obliged to check the girl.

"Now don't go too fast. It is a long way up there. I warn you it is
almost at timber-line."

But she paid small heed to his warning. She felt so light, so active,
it seemed she could not tire.

For a time they followed the wide road which climbed steadily, but at
last he stopped.

"Now here we strike the trail," he said. "You must go ahead, for I am
to lead the horse."

"Not far ahead," she exclaimed, a little bit alarmed.

"Only two steps." He was a little amused at her. "Just so I will not
tread on your heels."

"You needn't laugh. I know they hunt bears up here."

They climbed for some time in comparative silence.

"Oh, how much greener it is up here!" she exclaimed at last, looking
around, her eyes bright with excitement.

He smiled indulgently. "You tourists think you know Colorado when
you've crossed it once on the railway. This is the Colorado which you
seldom see."

She was in rapture over the glory of color, the waving grasses of
smooth hillsides, and the radiant dapple of light and shadow beneath
the groves of vivid yellow aspens. The cactus and Spanish dagger, and
the ever-present sage bush of the lower levels, had disappeared,
crow's-foot and blue-joint grasses swung in the wind. The bright flame
of the painted cup and the purple of the asters still lighted up the
aisles of the pines in sheltered places.

"There are many more in August," he explained. "The frost has swept
them all away."

"Is this our stream?" she asked.

"Yes, we cross it many times."

"How small it is."

"Are you tired?"

"Not at all."

He came close to her to listen to her breathing. "You must not do too
much. If you find yourself out of breath stop and ride."

"I want to be cured."

He laughed. "By the way you lead up this trail I don't think you need
medicine. I never finish wondering whether you are the same girl I met
first----"

She flashed a glance back at him. "I'm not. I'm another person."

"That shows what three months of this climate will do."

"Climate did not do it."

"What did?"

"You did." She kept marching steadily forward, her head held very
straight indeed.

"I wish you would wait a moment," he pleaded.

"I am very thirsty--I want to reach the spring."

"But, dear girl, you can't keep this up."

"Can't I? Watch me and see."

She seemed possessed of some miraculous staff, for she mounted the
steep trail as lightly as a fawn. Clement was in an agony of
apprehension lest she should overdo and fall fainting in the path.
This ecstasy of activity was most dangerously persistent.

It was past noon when they came out of the aspens and pines into the
little smooth slope of meadow which lay between the low peaks which
were already crusted with snow. In the midst of the orange and purple
and red of the grasses lay a deep, dark pool of water--as beautiful as
her eyes, it seemed to him.

"Here is the spring," Clement called to the girl.

"I knew it," she said.

"Wait," he called again. "I must drink with you."

He hastened up and dipped a cup into the water and handed it to her.

"Now drink confusion to disease."

"Confusion!" She drank. "Oh, isn't it sweet? I never knew before how
good water was. But here, drink. You are dying of thirst, too." She
handed him the cup.

"I want to drink to some purpose also," he said, and there was no need
of further words, but he went on, his full heart giving eloquence to
his lips, "I want to pledge my life to your service--my life and all I
am."

She grew a little pale. This intensity of emotion awed her as the
majestic in Nature affects great souls. "I don't think you ought. I
don't think I am quite worthy."

"Let me be judge of that." He spoke quickly and almost sharply. "Shall
I drink?"

She had walked on while Clement was speaking, and stood leaning
against the browsing horse. After a little hesitation she answered,
"If you are thirsty."

[Illustration]

The words were light, but he understood her. He drank and then came
straight toward her.

She shrank from him in sudden timidity and said a little hurriedly,
"Help me into the saddle. I shall need to ride back."


_WESTWARD VISTA_


        _The half-sunk sun
    Burns through the dusty-crimson sky;
    Streamers of gold and green soar
    In radiating splendor, like the spokes
    Of God's unmeasurable chariot-wheels
    Half-hid and vanishing.
    Around me is coolness, ripeness and repose;
    The smell of gathered grain and fruits,
    And the musky breath of melons fills the air.
    The very dust is fruity, and the click
    Of locusts' wings is like the close
    Of gates upon great stores of wheat.
    The gathered barley bleaches in shock,
    The corn breathes on me from the west,
    And the sky-line widens on and on
    Until I see the waves of yellow-green
    Break on the hills that face the snow and lilac peaks
    Of Colorado's mountains._


CHAPTER I


At first Clement's happiness had no further base of uneasiness than
the lover's fear of loss. It all seemed too good to be true, and he
had a hidden fear that something might happen to set him back where he
was before she came. It was quite like his feeling about his mine--it
took him a certain length of time before he ceased to dream of its
sudden loss, and now it seemed (when absent from her) that it would be
easy for something to rob him of this love which was his life.

This feeling was mixed, too, with a feeling of his unworthiness, which
deepened the more closely he studied her. She was so free from all
bruise and stain of life's battle. There were no questionable places
in her life. Could he say as much?

Whenever he asked himself the question his dealings with the
stockholders of "The Biddy" came into his mind. Could he afford to
tell his bride all the facts in the case? This feeling of
dissatisfaction with himself led him to do many extravagant things. He
presented her with beautiful and costly jewels for which she had
little taste.

"Why, Richard. What made you think of that?" she said once after he
had slipped away to the city to buy her something.

"Is it so very pretty?"

"It is beautiful! But can we afford such things?"

"We can afford anything that will make you happy."

He made a similar answer when she drew back a little startled at the
cost of the house he had contracted for.

"Why, it is a palace!"

"The best is scarcely good enough for you." After a moment he added,
"You see, I know you can never live East again, and I want you to
have all the comforts of a palace out here. And so long as 'The Witch'
holds out you shall have your heart's desire."

Mr. Ross had come to have a profound respect for his future
son-in-law. "I can't say that he don't make as much of a fool of
himself as any prospective bridegroom, but he is a business man at the
same time. He don't lose his head, by any means." He was telling his
son about Clement. "He is devoted to your sister, but I went over to
his mine with him the other day and it is perfectly certain that he
understands his business. He is only reckless when buying things for
Ellice. He'll take care of her and the mine, too."

Clement felt a certain incongruity every time he put on his miner's
dress and went through the mine. "I'm too rough for her, too old," he
kept thinking--trying to conceal the real cause of his growing fear.

He was not honest with himself. He fought round the real point of
danger. He gave a generous sum to the library, aided a hospital, and
did other things which should ease a bad conscience, and yet do not.
He hastened the house forward, and passed to and fro between his mine,
the Springs and the city in ceaseless activity.

The marriage was set for July, just a year from the time he first saw
her, and the winter passed quickly, so busied was he in building and
planning the home. He grew less and less buoyant and more careworn as
spring wore on, and Ellice could not understand the change. He was
moody and changeable even in her presence. This troubled her, and she
often asked:

"What is the matter, Richard? Is your business going wrong?"

"No, oh no. Business is all right. Nothing is the matter." And ended
by convincing her that something was very much wrong indeed. And she
grieved in silence, not daring to question him further.

The self-revealing touch came to him in a curious way only a few days
before their wedding day. He was in camp on a final inspection of his
mine, and was walking the streets at night, silent, self-absorbed and
gloomy. He had grown morbid and unwholesome in his thought, and the
wreck of his happiness seemed already complete. He spent a great deal
of time in long and lonely walks.

The street swarmed with rough, noisy miners. A band of evangelists,
with drums and tambourines, occupied the central corner. A low,
continuous hum of talk could be heard at the base of all other noises.

Being in no mood for companionship Clement stood aside from it all,
thinking how far above all this life his beautiful bride was.

There had been in the camp for some weeks a certain sensational
evangelist--a man of some power, but of unhappy disposition
apparently. At any rate he had been in much trouble with the city
authorities. He had been called a "hypocrite and fake" in the public
press, and had been prosecuted for disturbance of the peace. But he
seemed to thrive on such treatment.

Clement had paid very little attention to the man and his troubles,
but as he looked down the street at the crowd around the speakers on
the corner it occurred to him to wonder if they were the fighting
evangelists.

He was about to move that way when he observed near him in the dark
middle of the street a man and a woman.

"This will do as well as anywhere," the man said, putting down a small
box. He wore a broad cowboy hat, and a long coat which hung unbuttoned
down his powerful figure. The woman was tall and slender, and neatly
dressed in gray. Clement understood that these were the persecuted
ones.

The man mounted the box, and in a powerful but not very musical voice
began to sing a hymn full of cowboy slang. His singing had a quality
not usual in street singers, and a crowd quickly gathered about him.
His song was long and not without a rude poetry. He began his address
at last by issuing a defiance to his enemies. This would mean little
in an Eastern village, perhaps, but in a mining camp, even a
degenerate mining camp, it might mean a great deal--life or death, in
fact.

"Now, gentlemen, I want to say something as a preface in order to know
just where we stand. Some citizens of the town have vilified me in
private and in the public press--over an assumed name, however. It
wouldn't be healthy for any man to do it openly. The man is a
liar--but I don't care about myself. It is a little difference of
opinion among men, but some miscreant has reflected upon the good name
of my wife. Now let me say that the man that says my wife is not a
lady and a woman of the highest character, insults the mother of my
children and will answer to me for every word he utters."

A little thrill of interest and awe ran through the crowd. The man's
voice meant battle, and battle to the hilt of the bowie. It was so
easy to prove a mark for desperate men, but there was no fear in the
attitude of the speaker. He had come up through a wild life, and knew
his audience, his accuser and himself.

His voice took a sudden change--it grew tender and reverent. "I am
here to preach the gospel of Christ and Him crucified. I may not do it
in the best way always, but I do it as well as I know how." Here his
tone grew severely earnest and savage again, as he added: "But I shall
defend the honor of my wife with my life."

His voice and pose were magnificent--lion-like.

His manner changed again with dramatic suddenness. He took the whole
street into his confidence.

"I love my wife, gentlemen. She has borne three children to me. She is
a good woman. A mighty sight smarter and better than I am, but she
can't defend herself against sneaks and reptilious liars. I can.
That's part of my business. I tell you, boys," he added in a low voice
very sincere and winning, "they ain't no man good enough to marry a
good woman; it's just her good, pure, kind heart gives him any show at
all."

A sudden lump rose in Clement's throat. The man's deep humility and
loyalty and apparent sincerity had gone straight to his own heart and
touched him in a very sensitive place. He turned away and sought the
deeper shadow with his head bowed in black despair.

He thought of the eyes of his bride with a shudder almost of fear.
Could he ever face her again?

"Oh, God! How pure and dainty and unspotted she is, and I--I am
unclean."

He saw as clearly as if a light had been turned in upon his secret
thought, that the ownership of "The Witch" was in question. He had not
been candid with her--he had been dishonest. He had not dared to let
her know how he had secured control of that stock.

All the way back to the Springs he wrestled with himself about it. He
ended by reasserting the justice of his position, and resolved to tell
her at once the whole story and let her judge. He had in his pocket
the deed to the house and lot, which he determined now to give her at
once, and to make explanations at the same time.

This he did. He called to see her the following afternoon and found
her surrounded with women and gowns and flowers. The women fled when
he approached, but the gowns and flowers remained, and there was talk
upon them till at last, in sheer desperation, Clement said:

"Ellice, here is something that I want to give you now. It is my
wedding gift."

He placed in her hand the deed. She looked at it.

"Oh, there's so much fine print. I can't read it now. What is it?"

"It is the deed to the new home."

Her eyes misted with quick emotion.

"How good you are to me, Richard."

"No, it's precaution," he replied as lightly as he could. "We will
have a home always if you don't lose it in some wild speculation."

She put her arms about his neck, an infrequent caress with her.

"How rich we are. God is good to us. And is it not good to think that
our wealth does not come from anybody's misery? It comes out of the
earth like a spring--like the spring that made me well."

As he looked down into her face it seemed lit from within by some
Heavenly light, and her voice made his head grow dizzy. He could not
tell her his story then.

He sat down and listened to her talk. She wanted to know what troubled
him, and he was forced to lie.

"Oh, nothing. I'm a little worried about a--new piece of machinery."
This gave him a thought. "I must be away this evening. I can't take
dinner with you."

She was not one of those who worry with expostulations or
complainings. She had a mind of her own, and she granted the same
decision to others.

"Very well," she said, and she flashed a sudden roguish look at him.
"Don't forget to breakfast with me."

He had the grace to return her smile as he said:

"Oh, I'll not forget. I've charged my mind with it."

His going was like a flight. His inner cry was this:

"My God! I am absolutely unworthy of her. I am big, coarse and
dishonest--unfit to touch her hand."

His gloomy face and bent head was a subject of joke for the
acquaintances he met on the street.

"Saddle Susanna," he called sharply to his Mexican hostler. He had
made up his mind to radical measures.

As he sat in his room with his face buried in his hands shutting out
the light of the splendid sunset, he saw her as she sat among her soft
silks and dainty flowers. Her lovely eyes and the exquisite texture of
her skin grew more and more wonderful to him. The touch of his lips to
hers came to seem an act of pollution, almost of envenoming, as he
brooded on his unworthiness.

He wrote a note to her on the impulse of the moment. The missive read:

     "I am not fit to see you, to touch you. I am going away
     across the divide to make restitution for a great wrong I
     have done. If I do not I can never face you again. When I
     see you again I will be an honest man, or I--if you think me
     worthy of forgiveness I will see you and ask it to-morrow.
                                                  RICHARD."

He added as a postscript:

     "I am well. I am not crazy, but I am not an honest man. I
     can't kiss you again till I am."

Upon reading this note he saw it would frighten her, and keep her in
agony of suspense, therefore he tore it up, and rushing out of the
house leaped into the saddle.

The spirited little broncho was fresh and mettlesome, and went off in
a series of sheeplike bounds which her rider seemed not to notice.

He drew rein at the telegraph office, and there sent three telegrams.
They were all alike:

     "Meet me at the office at midnight. Important."

As he turned Susanna's head up the trail the mountains stood deep
purple silhouettes against the cloudlessness of the sky. The wind blew
from the heights cool and fragrant, and the little horse set nostril
to it as if she anticipated and welcomed the hard ride.

The way lay over forbidding mountain passes ten thousand feet above
the sea, and her rider was a heavy man. But Susanna was of broncho
strain with a blooded sire, which makes the hardiest and swiftest
mountain horse in the world.

Clement's mind cleared as he began the ascent--cleared but did not
rest. Over and over the problem came, each time clearer and more
difficult. He must that night give away a hundred and thirty-five
thousand dollars--terrible ordeal! Ninety thousand dollars to go to an
old Irishman and his wife--both ignorant, careless.

What would they do with it? It might drive them crazy. As they now
lived they were comfortable. He had made Dan sub-superintendent of the
mine, and he had rebuilt the eating-house for Biddy. Could they take
care of the big fortune he was about to give them?

Ought he not to give them a few thousands--such sum as they could
comprehend and take care of? Would it not be better for them?

Then there was forty-five thousand dollars to be given to a cheap
little man--that was hardest of all, for he had come to hate the sight
of the sleek black head of Arthur Eldred. Yes, but he had saved the
day. He had put in six hundred dollars when every dollar was a ducat.
True, but the reward was too great. A hundred thousand dollars for six
hundred.

Oh, this was familiar ground! He had gone over it in a sort of
sub-conscious way a hundred times, each time apparently the final one.
It had been quite settled when this slender little woman first lifted
her face to him, and now nothing was settled.

It was very still and cold. There was no stream to sing up through the
pines, and no wind in the pines to answer should the stream call.
Nothing seemed to be stirring save the pensive man and his faithful
pony.

Reaching the upper levels he spurred on at a gallop, finding some
relief in the pounding action of the saddle and in the rush of air
past his ears. The moon was late, but when it came it seemed to help
him, lightening his mood as it lightened the trail. The big ledges and
lowering, lesser peaks lifted into the dark sky weirdly translucent,
and their upper edges seemed smooth and graceful as the rims of
bubbles. Solid rock seemed melted and transfused with light and air.
It was all miraculously beautiful, and the sore-hearted man lifted his
eyes to the heights seeing the face of a girl in every moonlit rock
and in every wayside pool.

As he entered the office he found them all waiting for him--Dan and
Biddy in their best dress, and Eldred with a supercilious half-grin,
half-scowl on his face.

Clement nodded at him, but said "Hello" to Dan and "Good-evening" to
Biddy. Conly, his trusted, discreet cashier, was at his desk, and the
office was dimly lit with a single electric bulb.

Dan and Biddy greeted him cautiously, for Eldred had filled their
simple souls with suspicion. "He wants to compromise. He's afraid of
our suit against him."

As a matter of fact Dan would never put a dollar into the plan for a
suit, and it had never gone beyond Eldred's talk--and yet he had made
them suspicious. Dan was forced to confess that Clement was becoming
an "a-ristocrat." And Biddy acknowledged that he "sildom dairkened her
dure these days." They had always felt his superiority and refinement,
and they rose as he entered.

He wasted no time in preliminaries. "Sit down," he said imperiously,
and his face, when he turned to the light, was knotted with trouble.
He sat for a moment with bent head while he strengthened his heart to
a bitter and humiliating task. He began abruptly:

"Dan, you remember the time I brought the amalgam home in a vial and
it had turned green?"

"I do. Yis."

"You remember that you gave it up right then."

"I did. I said it's 'witch's gould.'"

"Sure such it looked like that day," said Biddy.

"All the same, the thing which scared you put a happy thought into my
head, and I felt then I could solve it." He lifted his head and looked
around defiantly. "In short, when I bought your stock in at ten cents
on the dollar I knew it was worth par, for I had solved the process."

There was a silence very awesome following the defiant ring of the
voice.

Eldred was the first to comprehend what it meant. His eyes glittered
like those of an awakened rat.

"Do you mean that? If that's true you robbed us, you thief, robbed us
cold and clean." He sprang up. "I knew you'd do something----"

"Sit down," interrupted Clement harshly. "I'm not going to have any
words with you. If I had seen fit not to tell you of this how much
would you have known of it? Sit down and keep your tongue between your
teeth." He turned to Dan and his voice was softer. "Dan, when I was
hungry you took me in and fed me. For that I've given you a good
position. Is that debt paid?"

"Sure, Clement, me boy, it was only a sup of p'taties an' bacon,
annyway."

"Biddy, I turned over two thousand dollars to you, and rebuilt your
eating-house. You thought that paid the debt I owed you?"

Biddy was slower to answer. "For all the grub an' the loikes o' that,
indade yis, Mr. Clement--but sure we wor pardners----"

Clement interrupted. "I know. I'm coming to that. Now answer me. If it
hadn't been for me wouldn't you have thrown up the sponge long before
you did?"

The silence of the little group answered him.

"Would any of you ever have worked out the mystery of that ore?
Weren't you all anxious to sell for anything you could get?"

They were all silent as before.

"I made the mine worth money. I discovered the secret, it was my
invention. I paid you four times what you had put into it. The mine
was worthless until I invented a process for saving the gold. I
claimed it as an invention like any man claims a patent right. I
believed I had a right to it--to all of it, and so I bought in your
stock after I had solved the problem of the reduction. I say I
believed I was right--to-night I believe I was wrong--it don't matter
how I came to the conclusion, but I've changed my mind. I have come
to-night to make restitution. I am ready to pay you ninety cents more
on every dollar of stock you sold me at that time."

Biddy gasped: "Howly Saints!"

Dan leaped up with a wild hurrah. "Listen to that now!" he cried, with
other incoherences. He shook Clement's hand and kissed Biddy. He
praised Clement.

"Ye're the whitest man that iver stepped green turf."

Clement sat coldly impassive and unsmiling.

"Then you're satisfied?"

"Satisfied!" shouted Dan. "Satisfied is it, man? Indade I am."

"And you, Biddy?"

Biddy was weeping and muttering wild Irish prayers. "Dan, dear, do ye
understand, it's forty-five thousand dollars apiece to the two of us.
Oh, the blessed old Ireland! I'll go back sure. Oh, it's too good to
be true--we must be dramin'."

Clement looked at the distracted woman with a flush of
self-righteousness. He had been right in his fears. It seemed like to
ruin the simple souls. He turned to Eldred, who sat in silence.

"What have you to say?"

Eldred sneered. "I say you can't fool me. These shares are worth
seventeen dollars and eighty cents each. I want their market value,
not their par value. I want one-quarter the present value of 'The
Witch.'"

Clement's brow darkened and his eyes burned with a fierce steady
light.

"Is that all you want? If I served you right I'd kick you out of the
door and let you do your worst. I know if you sue that you can't
recover one dollar from me. But I have my reasons for putting up with
your insolence. I will pay you forty-five thousand dollars and not one
cent more. The market value of 'The Witch' to-day I have made by my
management. I have gone on improving the mine day by day. As it stands
it is a new property. You were a quarter owner in 'The Biddy.' We
capitalized 'The Biddy' at your own suggestion at two hundred thousand
dollars, because we wanted it big enough to cover all values. When I
render you your share of that I am doing you justice. John, make out
three checks for forty-five thousand dollars each."

Dan and Biddy turned upon Eldred and talked him into silence, but he
was unconvinced.

Clement refused to touch the checks, and the clerk said: "Here is
yours, Biddy."

Biddy went up and took the slip in her hands. "Is that little slip o'
white paper really worth so much?"

"Call at the bank and get your money when you want it," said the
imperturbable cashier.

Dan studied his check, his face foolish with joy.

Eldred took his, saying, "This puts into my hands the means to fight."

Clement merely nodded. "You know my address." Eldred went out without
further word.

When the door closed on him Clement's face lost its sternness, and he
became sad and tender.

His struggle was not yet done. His mind was clear about the man who
came in at the eleventh hour, but it was not clear with regard to
these true-hearted old friends who had been with him from the first.
He recalled the time when Dan's big arm had helped him to a chair, and
Biddy had put the steaming soup before him--food worth all the gold in
the world at that moment. He recalled her broad, kindly face, hot and
shining from the stove; he remembered their struggles, their
sacrifices.

"Wait a moment, Biddy," he said, as they called out "Good-night," and
started to leave.

"Sit down a moment, and you, too, Dan. I want to talk over old times a
while."

They sat down in stupefaction.

"Biddy, do you remember the money you squandered on the lottery
ticket?"

A slow smile broadened her face. "I do, Mister Clement--and I remember
I won the prize sure!"

"You did, and saved all our lives. Dan, do you remember the day we
lost our last five-dollar gold piece in the grass?"

Dan slapped his knee. "Do I? I wore me hands raw as beef combin' the
grass that day."

"Ah, those were great days. We had days when forty-five cents would
have made us joyous, and here you are with ninety thousand dollars,
and wishin' for more."

Dan laughed again. "Sure, that's no lie."

"It is, Dan Kelly," said Biddy. "I have enough--too much. My heart
misgives me now. I'm afraid of it, sure. I'm scared to carry it away
wid me."

"You're safe, Biddy; nobody will steal that check." A sudden impulse
seized him. "Dan, you believed in me in those days--give me that
check." Dan slowly handed to him the check. Clement took it and
turned. "Biddy, you fed me when I was starving, and you pawned
everything you had to 'grub-stake' me--give me your check." She handed
it to him without hesitation. He tore them into small pieces.

"Dan, you are mining boss, and I make you both quarter owners in 'The
Witch' with all I have, and share and share alike, as we did when we
hadn't a dime. Now hurrah for 'The Witch.'"

Nobody shouted but the cashier. Dan sat in a stupor, and Biddy was
weeping, with one arm flung around Dan's neck. Dan was turning his hat
around on his fingers and staring at Clement's face for some solution
to the situation. It was beyond his imagination.

Clement did not speak again for some moments. When he did his voice
was husky and tremulous with emotion. "You notice I say quarter
interest--that's because there is a new member in the firm now. She
comes in to-morrow. I want you to see how she looks." He extended a
picture of Ellice to Biddy. She made a marvelous dramatic shift of
features, and a smile of admiration broke through the red of her broad
countenance.

"Oh, the swate, blessed angel. Sure, she's beautiful as one of the
saints in the church. Luk at her, Dan."

"I'm lukin'. She's none too good for him."

"Don't say that, Dan!" Clement protested in an earnest tone. "All you
have to-night you owe to her. All the best thoughts in me to-day I owe
to her."


CHAPTER II


There remained to him now all the joy of riding back to tell her of
his purification of soul. His heart was so joyous it kept time to
every happy song in the world.

The gloom and doubt of himself had passed away, but the wonder and
mystery of woman's love for man remained. He felt himself to be an
honest man, but a man big, crude and coarse compared to her beauty and
delicacy. It is astonishing, wonderful! Might I--would it be--could
you--would you, Sir, be so very kind as to allow me to paint you? I
would, of course, make every effort not to inconvenience you--I would
arrange so that your time should be mine."
"Of course I will, guvnor," said the man. "I'm a professional
model and I've been sitting for NELSON for years.

Why, I've been doing it for an artist this very afternoon."
[Illustration: OUR RESTRICTED COAST AMUSEMENTS.
_Vendor_. "ALL THE OFFICIAL 'OLIDAY FUN.Over and over again his thought ran: "Now I am an honest man. I am not
worthy of her, but at least my heart is clean."

Henceforth she was to be his altar of sacrifice. All he did would be
for her approval. All there was of his money, his inventive skill, his
command of men, should be hers. She should regulate every hour of his
coming and going, and share all the plans and purposes of his life.

"Oh, I must live right, and deal justly," he thought. "I must be a
better man from this time forth."

In the east the pale lances of the coming sun pierced the breasts of
the soaring gray clouds, and, behold, they grew to be the most
splendid orange and red and purple. The stars began to pale, and as he
came to the eastern slope where the plain stretched to dim splendor,
like a motionless sea of russet and purple, the sun was rising.

The plain seemed lonely and desolate of life, so far below was it. All
action was lost in the mist of immensity--men's stature that of the
most minute insects. And down there in the pathway of the morning was
the little woman of all the world waiting for him!

As he rode down the slope to the river level into the town the sun was
swinging, big and red, high above the horizon. His long ride had made
him look wan and pale, but he ordered coffee and a biscuit, and was
glad to find it helped him to look less wan and sorrowful. He dressed
with great care, then sat down to wait. At 7:30 o'clock he sent a note
to her:

     "I have not forgotten. When do you breakfast?"

She replied:

     "Good-morning, dearest. Breakfast is ready; come as soon as
     you can."

He entered the room with the heart of a boy, the presence of an
athlete. He was at his prime of robust manhood, and his physical pride
was unconscious.

She was proud of him, and met him more than half way in his greeting.
Her face was still slender and delicate of color, but in her eyes was
a serene brightness, and her lips were tremulous with happiness.

She led him to the little table. "Now you mustn't call this
breakfast," she explained. "This is a private cup of coffee to sustain
us through the ordeal. We all breakfast immediately after the
ceremony."

A shadow fell on his mother's face, and for several minutes she
stood and he sat in perfect silence; he not stirring his eyes from
the fire, she not moving hers from him.

When she spoke, the tone was changed, and though quiet he felt the
trouble in it.

"What sort of a somebody, Winthrop?"
"Mamma," he said, "I can't live here! I want to know more
and to be more than I can here.

I can, I am sure, if I only can find a way; and I am sure I can
find a way.

It is in me, and it will come out. I don't want anybody to give me
any help, nor to think of me; I can work my own way, if you'll
only let me and not be troubled about me."

He had risen from his chair to speak this.

His mother kept her face in the shadow and said quietly,
"What way will you take, Winthrop?"
He felt his courage oozing away, and so began abruptly:

"Ellice, I have a story to tell and a confession to make to you."

She looked a little startled. "That sounds ominous, Richard--like the
villain in the play, only he makes his confession after marriage."

He was very sober indeed now. "That's the reason I make mine now. I
want you to know just what I am before you marry me."

She leaned her chin on her clasped hands and looked at him. "Tell me
all about it."

He did. He began at the beginning, and while it would not be true to
say he did not spare himself, he told the story as it actually
happened. He concealed no essential.

"I rode there and back last night simply because I couldn't kiss you
again until I had made myself an honest man."

She reached out and clutched the hand which lay on the table near
her--a sudden convulsive embrace.

"Last night?"

"Yes, I've been to the camp since I left you last night. I couldn't
stand with you--there--before all our friends, till I could say I had
no other man's money in my pockets."

She took his hand in both of her own and bent her head and touched her
cheek to his fingers. She was very deeply moved.

And he--though his voice choked--faltered through:

"I gave it all back, dear--I mean I gave over to Biddy and Dan their
full share--they are equal owners with you and me in 'The Witch.' I
tried to withhold some of it; it was hard to give it all back; but I
did it because I believed you would approve of it. It had long been
done, and the afternoon was wearing well on, when Mrs.

Landholm came into the kitchen again. Karen had taken care of the
children meanwhile. But where was Winthrop?
The mother, now quite herself, bethought her of him.THE END