The little creature fronted him, all wilfulness and breathing hard, her
small hands clasped on her breast.

With an angry exclamation the Duke departed.

       *       *       *       *       *

At half-past eight a hansom dashed up to Crowborough House. Montresor
emerged.

He found the two ladies and Jacob Delafield just beginning dinner, and
stayed with them an hour; but it was not an hour of pleasure. The great
man was tired with work and debate, depressed also by the quarrel with
his old friend. Julie did not dare to put questions, and guiltily shrank
into herself. She divined that a great price was being paid on her
behalf, and must needs bitterly ask whether anything that she could
offer or plead was worth it--bitterly suspect, also, that the query had
passed through other minds than her own.

After dinner, as Montresor rose with the Duchess to take his leave,
Julie got a word with him in the corridor.

"You will give me ten minutes' talk?" she said, lifting her pale face to
him. "You mustn't, mustn't quarrel with Lady Henry because of me."

He drew himself up, perhaps with a touch of haughtiness.

"Lady Henry could end it in a moment. Don't, I beg of you, trouble your
head about the matter. Even as an old friend, one must be allowed one's
self-respect."

"But mayn't I--"

"Nearly ten o'clock!" he cried, looking at his watch. "I must be off
this moment. So you are going to the house in Heribert Street? I
remember Lady Mary Leicester perfectly. As soon as you are settled, tell
me, and I will present myself. Meanwhile "--he smiled and bent his black
head towards her--"look in to-morrow's papers for some interesting
news."

He sprang into his hansom and was gone.

Julie went slowly up-stairs. Of course she understood. The long intrigue
had reached its goal, and within twelve hours the _Times_ would announce
the appointment of Captain Warkworth, D.S.O., to the command of the
Mokembe military mission. He would have obtained his heart's
desire--through her.

How true were those last words, perhaps only Julie knew. She looked back
upon all the manoeuvres and influences she had brought to bear--flattery
here, interest or reciprocity there, the lures of Crowborough House, the
prestige of Lady Henry's drawing-room. Wheel by wheel she had built up
her cunning machine, and the machine had worked. If I have rightly
set forth the principles of Greek literature and art in past pages,
the nature of their influence under present conditions will
be clear.

I must venture on a parallel which seems to me very suggestive,
though some readers may regard it as risky.

There are two great standards set up in the past, to control the wayward
fanaticisms of men, and to keep them within the bounds of reason
and good sense.

The standard in religion is set by the New Testament: the standard in
art is set by Greece. As at the Renaissance the peoples of Europe went
back for their inspiration and their models to the literature and the
art of Hellas, so at the Reformation they, or at all events the Teutonic
races, went back to the early records of Christianity, appealing to
them against the venality and corruption of the dominant Church. And
ever since, at intervals, there has arisen, alike in the field of culture
and in that of religion, an echo of the appeal to the classical
past.

It is to the New Testament that Apostles like John Wesley and George Fox
made their appeal, setting up in opposition to the conventions and
worldliness of the Church in their times the spirituality and
simplicity of the apostolic age, just as Goethe and Lessing turned
men's minds from what was contrary to reason and good taste in their
surroundings to Greek beauty and simplicity.

Yet all the while
Delafield's presence haunted her--she could not forget him, and
presently she addressed him.

"Mr. Delafield!"

He heard the low voice and came.

"I have never thanked you for your goodness last night. I do thank you
now--most earnestly."

"You needn't. You know very well what I would do to serve you if I
could."

"Even when you think me in the wrong?" said Julie, with a little,
hysterical laugh.

Her conscience smote her. Why provoke this intimate talk--wantonly--with
the man she had made suffer? Yet her restlessness, which was partly
nervous fatigue, drove her on.

Delafield flushed at her words.

"How have I given you cause to say that?"

"Oh, you are very transparent. One sees that you are always troubling
yourself about the right and wrong of things."

"All very well for one's self," said Delafield, trying to laugh. "I hope
I don't seem to you to be setting up as a judge of other people's right
and wrong?"

"Yes, yes, you do!" she said, passionately. Then, as he winced, "No, I
don't mean that. But you do judge--it is in your nature--and other
people feel it."

"I didn't know I was such a prig," said Delafield, humbly. "It is true I
am always puzzling over things."

Julie was silent. She was indeed secretly convinced that he no more
approved the escapade of the night before than did Sir Wilfrid Bury.
Through the whole evening she had been conscious of a watchful anxiety
and resistance on his part. Yet he had stood by her to the end--so
warmly, so faithfully.

He sat down beside her, and Julie felt a fresh pang of remorse, perhaps
of alarm. Why had she called him to her? What had they to do with each
other? But he soon reassured her. He began to talk of Meredith, and the
work before her--the important and glorious work, as he naïvely termed
it, of the writer.

And presently he turned upon her with sudden feeling.

"You accused me, just now, of judging what I have no business to judge.
If you think that I regret the severance of your relation with Lady
Henry, you are quite, quite mistaken. It has been the dream of my life
this last year to see you free--mistress of your own life. I have no
doubt that in the development of that religion, hatred and contempt
for the idols of the surrounding nations was of inestimable value
to the race.

The struggle, ever renewed, against the invasion of idolatry was
necessary to the development of that pure prophetic religion which
it was the highest mission of the Jewish race to set forth and
propagate in the world.

I would not even speak against the echoes of it in the modern world. To
the Moslems of our days, as to the ancient Jews, it appears to be
a necessary corollary of any lofty and spiritual conception of the
divine.

And when we read of the destruction of religious images by our
Puritan ancestors we cannot withhold from them an inner sympathy.

The hatred of images was one side of the pure and passionate belief
in spiritual religion which it was the mission of the great Reformers
to revive and propagate in Europe.

But it is possible to appreciate this side of religion without being
blind to other aspects of it.

Our religion comes not only from Judaea, but also from Greece. The Jewish
passion for the divine righteousness lies at its roots. But that passion
is consistent with narrowness, bigotry, inhumanity. For the
modifications of it which come from the working of the spirit of
humanism we have to turn to the Hellenes, for the feeling of the
likeness in nature between God and man, the love of the beauty of
the created works of God, the joy in whatever is sweet, whatever
is comely, whatever is charming.

The beauty and majesty of God appealed to the Greek, as the unapproachable
transcendence of God inspired the Jew.

So it fell to the Greek artists to try to set forth in marble and
in bronze the gentler and more social side of the divine nature.

There is a sweet reasonableness in the words of Maximus of Tyre:
'The Greek custom is to represent the Gods by the most beautiful
things on earth--pure material, the human form, consummate art.

The idea of those who make divine images in human shape is quite
reasonable, since the spirit of man is nearest of all things to
God and most godlike.'

The whole history of Greek sculpture, from its rise in the sixth
century to its decline in the third, is inspired by this desire to represent
the divine by the most beautiful things on earth.

The sculpture of the great nations of the East, Egypt and Assyria, is
full of figures of the Gods, and of scenes of worship.

But these figures do not rise above the human.

The gods appear as conventional figures, mere ordinary men and women.

And to distinguish them from mortal beings, the artists of the East
proceed in the manner of symbolism: they make additions to the
human types which are to signify the divine attributes, but do not
really embody them.

They add wings to represent the swiftness of the deity, wings not meant
for actual flight, but only symbols of rapid motion.
They represent them as victoriously overthrowing wild beasts and
monsters, which stand for the powers of evil, ever bent on thwarting
their action.

In some of their most archaic works, the Greeks fall into the
imitation of this way.

They represent Apollo flanked by two vanquished griffins, Artemis
with wings, and holding in her hands captive lions.

He made no reply.
Julie, with her craving to be approved--to say what pleased--could not
leave it there.

"I wish I understood," she said, softly, after a moment, "what, or who
it was that gave you these opinions."

Getting still no answer, she must perforce meet the gray eyes bent upon
her, more expressively, perhaps, than their owner knew. "That you shall
understand," he said, after a minute, in a voice which was singularly
deep and full, "whenever you choose to ask."

Julie shrank and drew back.

"Very well," she said, trying to speak lightly. "I'll hold you to that.
Alack! I had forgotten a letter I must write."

And she pretended to write it, while Delafield buried himself in the
newspapers.


XIII

Julie's curiosity--passing and perfunctory as it was--concerning the
persons and influences that had worked upon Jacob Delafield since his
college days, was felt in good earnest by not a few of Delafield's
friends. For he was a person rich in friends, reserved as he generally
was, and crotchety as most of them thought him. The mixture of
self-evident strength and manliness in his physiognomy with something
delicate and evasive, some hindering element of reflection or doubt, was
repeated in his character. On the one side he was a robust, healthy
Etonian, who could ride, shoot, and golf like the rest of his kind, who
used the terse, slangy ways of speech of the ordinary Englishman, who
loved the land and its creatures, and had a natural hatred for a
poacher; and on another he was a man haunted by dreams and spiritual
voices, a man for whom, as he paced his tired horse homeward after a
day's run, there would rise on the grays and purples of the winter dusk
far-shining "cities of God" and visions of a better life for man. He
read much poetry, and the New Testament spoke to him imperatively,
though in no orthodox or accustomed way. Ruskin, and the earlier work of
Tolstoy, then just beginning to take hold of the English mind, had
affected his thought and imagination, as the generation before him had
been affected by Carlyle, Emerson, and George Sand.

This present phase of his life, however, was the outcome of much that
was turbulent and shapeless in his first youth. He seemed to himself to
have passed through Oxford under a kind of eclipse. All that he could
remember of two-thirds of his time there was an immoderate amount of
eating, drinking, and sleeping. A heavy animal existence, disturbed by
moments of unhappiness and remorse, or, at best, lightened by intervals
and gleams of friendship with two or three men who tried to prod him out
of his lethargy, and cherished what appeared, to himself in particular,
a strange and unreasonable liking for him. Such, to his own thinking,
had been his Oxford life, up to the last year of his residence there.

Then, when he was just making certain of an ignominious failure in the
final schools, he became more closely acquainted with one of the college
tutors, whose influence was to be the spark which should at last fire
the clay. This modest, heroic, and learned man was a paralyzed invalid,
owing to an accident in the prime of life. He had lost the use of his
lower limbs--"dead from the waist down." Yet such was the strength of
his moral and intellectual life that he had become, since the
catastrophe, one of the chief forces of his college. The invalid-chair
on which he wheeled himself, recumbent, from room to room, and from
which he gave his lectures, was, in the eyes of Oxford, a symbol not of
weakness, but of touching and triumphant victory. He gave himself no
airs of resignation or of martyrdom. He simply lived his life--except
during those crises of weakness or pain when his friends were shut
out--as though it were like any other life, save only for what he made
appear an insignificant physical limitation. Scholarship, college
business or college sports, politics and literature--his mind, at
least, was happy, strenuous, and at home in them all. To have pitied him
would have been a mere impertinence. While in his own heart, which never
grieved over himself, there were treasures of compassion for the weak,
the tempted, and the unsuccessful, which spent themselves in secret,
simple ways, unknown to his most intimate friends.

This man's personality it was which, like the branch of healing on
bitter waters, presently started in Jacob Delafield's nature obscure
processes of growth and regeneration. The originator of them knew little
of what was going on. He was Delafield's tutor for Greats, in the
ordinary college routine; Delafield took essays to him, and occasionally
lingered to talk. But they never became exactly intimate. A few
conversations of "pith and moment"; a warm shake of the hand and a keen
look of pleasure in the blue eyes of the recumbent giant when, after one
year of superhuman but belated effort, Delafield succeeded in obtaining
a second class; a little note of farewell, affectionate and regretful,
when Delafield left the university; an occasional message through a
common friend--Delafield had little more than these to look back upon,
outside the discussions of historical or philosophical subjects which
had entered into their relation as pupil and teacher.

And now the paralyzed tutor was dead, leaving behind him a volume of
papers on classical subjects, the reputation of an admirable scholar,
and the fragrance of a dear and honored name. His pupils had been many;
they counted among the most distinguished of England's youth; and all of
them owed him much. Few people thought of Delafield when the list of
them was recited; and yet, in truth, Jacob's debt was greater than any;
for he owed this man nothing less than his soul.

No doubt the period at Oxford had been rather a period of obscure
conflict than of mere idleness and degeneracy, as it had seemed to be.
But it might easily have ended in physical and moral ruin, and, as it
was--thanks to Courtenay--Delafield went out to the business of life, a
man singularly master of himself, determined to live his own life for
his own ends.

In the first place, he was conscious, like many other young men of his
time, of a strong repulsion towards the complexities and artificialities
of modern society. As in the forties, a time of social stir was rising
out of a time of stagnation. Social settlements were not yet founded,
but the experiments which led to them were beginning. Jacob looked at
the life of London, the clubs and the country-houses, the normal life of
his class, and turned from it in aversion. He thought, sometimes, of
emigrating, in search of a new heaven and a new earth, as men emigrated
in the forties.

But his mother and sister were alone in the world--his mother a somewhat
helpless being, his sister still very young and unmarried. He could not
reconcile it to his conscience to go very far from them.

He tried the bar, amid an inner revolt that only increased with time.
And the bar implied London, and the dinners and dances of London, which,
for a man of his family, the probable heir to the lands and moneys of
the Chudleighs, were naturally innumerable. He was much courted, in
spite, perhaps because, of his oddities; and it was plain to him that
with only a small exercise of those will-forces he felt accumulating
within him, most of the normal objects of ambition were within his
grasp. The English aristocratic class, as we all know, is no longer
exclusive. It mingles freely with the commoner world on apparently equal
terms. But all the while its personal and family cohesion is perhaps
greater than ever. The power of mere birth, it seemed to Jacob, was
hardly less in the England newly possessed of household suffrage than in
the England of Charles James Fox's youth, though it worked through other
channels. And for the persons in command of this power, a certain
_appareil de vie_ was necessary, taken for granted. So much income, so
many servants, such and such habits--these things imposed themselves.
Life became a soft and cushioned business, with an infinity of layers
between it and any hard reality--a round pea in a silky pod.

And he meanwhile found himself hungry to throw aside these tamed and
trite forms of existence, and to penetrate to the harsh, true, simple
things behind. His imagination and his heart turned towards the
primitive, indispensable labors on which society rests--the life of the
husbandman, the laborer, the smith, the woodman, the builder; he dreamed
the old, enchanted dream of living with nature; of becoming the brother
not of the few, but of the many. He was still reading in chambers,
however, when his first cousin, the Duke, a melancholy semi-invalid, a
widower, with an only son tuberculous almost from his birth, arrived
from abroad. Jacob was brought into new contact with him. The Duke liked
him, and offered him the agency of his Essex property. Jacob accepted,
partly that he might be quit of the law, partly that he might be in the
country and among the poor, partly for reasons, or ghosts of reasons,
unavowed even to himself. There are two essential parts in the Doric
column, the shaft and the capital (the Greeks did not use any base
for this order). The Minoan columns taper downwards instead of upwards,
an utterly unconstructional form, and though in the palace of Knossos
and at Tiryns columns of this shape appear to have been used to carry
lintels, the stone columns on either side of the entrance to the
Treasury of Atreus at Mycenae were used for decorative and not for
structural purposes. On the other hand columns of great massiveness
tapering upwards had been used long before in Egypt; and though there is
evidence against it, it still seems probable that the suggestion
of the shaft of the Doric column may have come from Egypt.

We first find it in Greece in the seventh century B. C. at the period
when Psammetichus I (671-617 B. C.) opened Egypt to Greek trade and
settlement. The Greek colony of Naukratis on the west side of the Nile
delta was founded by Milesians about 650 B. C. and by the middle of the
sixth century B. C. definite trade relations were established between
Naukratis and the mainland of Greece. The Greek settlement at Daphnae
on the eastern arm of the Nile appears to have been founded at about
the same time as Naukratis, in both cases with the sanction and
encouragement of the Egyptian king.

The earliest Doric temples in Greece, Sicily, and Magna Graecia date
from the end of the seventh century and early part of the sixth century.
The nearness of date makes it probable that the shaft of the Doric order
had its origin in the Egyptian column seen by some quick-witted Greek
when trading in Egypt.
When we come to the capital of the column, the rôles seem to be reversed,
for we find nothing in Egyptian architecture to suggest the echinus
moulding under the square abacus of the Doric column; whereas the
Mycenaean column had a rudimentary capital which may have suggested
the idea of the Doric capital.

But the notable thing about it is that when we first come across the
Doric capital in Sicily and Greece, it is already far in advance of
anything that had gone before it in Greece, and it is quite different
from the columns of Egypt. In the Doric temple of Corinth (650-600
B. C.) the columns have already reached the type form, the tapered
shaft with its entasis or slight convex curvature in outline, its massive
solidity (the ratio is one of diameter to four and a quarter of height),
and the bold parabolic curve of the echinus moulding under the abacus of
its cap. In this form, the Doric column was an absolutely fresh note
in architecture. Archaic though they were, these columns at Corinth show
that the Greeks were already on the track of those refinements of
form, those optical corrections and compensations, which differentiate
Greek architecture from that of any other race.

The exaggeration in the entasis of the archaic column disappears, its
tapering was diminished, its height increased, and the overhang of the
capitals reduced, till in the Theseion (465 B. C.) and the Parthenon
(450-438 B. C.) we reach the final inimitable type.
Meanwhile his obligation, his relationship, and
her age made it natural, or rather imperative, that he should be often
in her house; but when he was with her the touch of arrogant brutality
in her nature, especially towards servants and dependants, roused him
almost to fury. She knew it, and would often exercise her rough tongue
merely for the pleasure of tormenting him.

No sooner, therefore, had he come to know the fragile, distinguished
creature whom Lady Henry had brought back with her one autumn as her
companion than his sympathies were instantly excited, first by the mere
fact that she was Lady Henry's dependant, and then by the confidence, as
to her sad story and strange position, which she presently reposed in
him and his cousin Evelyn. On one or two occasions, very early in his
acquaintance with her, he was a witness of some small tyranny of Lady
Henry's towards her. He saw the shrinking of the proud nature, and the
pain thrilled through his own nerves as though the lash had touched
himself. Presently it became a joy to him whenever he was in town to
conspire with Evelyn Crowborough for her pleasure and relief. It was the
first time he had ever conspired, and it gave him sometimes a slight
shock to see how readily these two charming women lent themselves, on
occasion, to devices that had the aspect of intrigue, and involved a
good deal of what, in his own case, he would have roundly dubbed lying.
And, in truth, if he had known, they did not find him a convenient ally,
and he was by no means always in their confidence.

Once, about six months after Julie's arrival in Bruton Street, he met
her on a spring morning crossing Kensington Gardens with the dogs. She
looked startlingly white and ill, and when he spoke to her with eager
sympathy her mouth quivered and her dark eyes clouded with tears. The
sight produced an extraordinary effect on a man large-hearted and
simple, for whom women still moved in an atmosphere of romance. His
heart leaped within him as she let herself be talked with and comforted.
And when her delicate hand rested in his as they said good-bye, he was
conscious of feelings--wild, tumultuous feelings--to which, in his walk
homeward through the spring glades of the park, he gave
impetuous course.

Romantic, indeed, the position was, for romance rests on contrast.
C. we see the inevitable result of such studies in a more precise and
learned rendering of the muscles and the skin. And artists no
longer hesitated to represent bodies wasted with toil and exposure to
the weather, or emaciated with fasting. There are many such figures
in our museums, showing a marvellously close study of the forms of
peasants and old women and children. I figure one of these, preserved
in the museum of the Conservatori of the Capitol at Rome, an aged
shepherdess carrying a lamb (Fig. 10).The more clearly he saw the specks in her
glory, the more vividly did she appear to him a princess in distress,
bound by physical or moral fetters not of her own making. None of the
well-born, well-trained damsels who had been freely thrown across his
path had so far beguiled him in the least. Only this woman of doubtful
birth and antecedents, lonely, sad, and enslaved amid what people called
her social triumphs, stole into his heart--beautified by what he chose
to consider her misfortunes, and made none the less attractive by the
fact that as he pursued, she retreated; as he pressed, she grew cold.

When, indeed, after their friendship had lasted about a year, he
proposed to her and she refused him, his passion, instead of cooling,
redoubled. It never occurred to him to think that she had done a strange
thing from the worldly point of view--that would have involved an
appreciation of himself, as a prize in the marriage market, he would
have loathed to make. Write as soon as possible. Is she at Radom?
Have you thrown up redoubts? My poor parents! How are my friends faring?

I could die for you, for you all!

Why am I doomed to be here so lonely and forsaken? You can at least
open your hearts to each other and comfort each other. Your flute will
have enough to lament! How much more will my piano have to weep!

You write that you and your regiment are going to take the field;
how will you forward the note?Thus the
touches of falsity that repelled Wilfrid Bury were to Delafield's
passion merely the stains of rough travel on a fair garment.

But she refused him, and for another year he said no more. Then, as
things got worse and worse for her, he spoke again--ambiguously--a word
or two, thrown out to sound the waters. Her manner of silencing him on
this second occasion was not what it had been before. His suspicions
were aroused, and a few days later he divined the Warkworth affair.

When Sir Wilfrid Bury spoke to him of the young officer's relations to
Mademoiselle Le Breton, Delafield's stiff defence of Julie's
prerogatives in the matter masked the fact that he had just gone through
a week of suffering, wrestling his heart down in country lanes; a week
which had brought him to somewhat curious results.

In the colonies in Asia Minor, the supremacy of the Ionic order had
long been recognized. The Ionic temple of Hera at Samos, 368 ft. long
by 178 ft. wide, is supposed to have been built at the end of the sixth
or early in the fifth century B.
