"More than two-thirds of the army will be without officers." On being
called upon to take the new oath in which the King's name is purposely
omitted, "six thousand officers send in their resignation."

Brannock is said to have been commanded in a dream to build a church on
the spot where he should first meet a sow. He pressed the deer into
the service of God, and yoked them, making them draw timber from the
woods to build the church.The treatment of the nobles by the Assembly is the same as the treatment
of the Protestants by Louis XIV.[2236] In both cases the oppressed are a
superior class of men. In both cases France has been made uninhabitable
for them. In both cases they are reduced to exile, and they are
punished because they exiled them selves. In both cases it ended in a
confiscation of their property, and in the penalty of death to all who
should harbor them. In both cases, by dint of persecution, they are
driven to revolt. The insurrection of La Vendée corresponds with the
insurrection of the Cévennes; and the emigrants, like the refugees of
former times, will be found under the flags of Prussia and of England.
One hundred thousand Frenchmen driven out at the end of the seventeenth
century, and one hundred thousand driven out at the end of the
eighteenth century! Mark how an intolerant democracy completes the work
of an intolerant monarchy. The moral aristocracy was mowed down in the
name of uniformity; the social aristocracy is mowed down in the name of
equality. For the second time, an absolute principle, and with the same
effect, buries its blade in the heart of a living society.

The success is complete. One of the deputies of the Legislative
Assembly, early in its session, on being informed of the great increase
in emigration, joyfully exclaims,

"SO MUCH THE BETTER; FRANCE IS BEING PURGED!"

She is, in truth, being depleted of one-half of her best blood.


IV.--Abuse and lukewarmness in 1789 in the ecclesiastical bodies.

     How the State used its right of overseeing and reforming
     them.--Social usefulness of corporations.--The sound part in
     the monastic institution.--Zeal and services of nuns.--How
     ecclesiastical possessions should be employed.--Principle of
     the Assembly as to private communities, feudal rights and
     trust-funds.--Abolition and expropriation all corporations.
     --Uncompensated suppression of tithes.--Confiscation of
     ecclesiastical possessions.--Effect on the Treasury and on
     expropriated services.--The civil constitution of the
     clergy.--Rights of the Church in relation to the State.
     --Certainty and effects of a conflict.--Priests considered as
     State-functionaries.--Principal stipulations of the law.
     --Obligations of the oath.--The majority of priests refuse to
     take it.--The majority of believes on their side.
     --Persecution of believers and of priests.


There remained the corporate, ecclesiastic, and lay bodies, and,
notably, the oldest, most opulent, and most considerable of all the
regular and secular clergy.--Grave abuses existed here also, for, the
institution being founded on ancient requirements, had not accommodated
itself to new necessities.[2237] There were too many episcopal sees,
and these were arranged according to the Christian distribution of
the population in the fourth century; a revenue still more badly
apportioned--bishops and abbés with one hundred thousand livres a year,
leading the lives of amiable idlers, while curés, overburdened with
work, have but seven hundred; in one monastery nineteen monks instead
of eighty, and in another four instead of fifty;[2238] a number of
monasteries reduced to three or to two inhabitants, and even to one;
almost all the congregations of men going to decay, and many of them
dying out for lack of novices;[2239] a general lukewarmness among the
members, great laxity in many establishments, and with scandals in some
of them; scarcely one-third taking an interest in their calling, while
the remaining two-thirds wish to go back to the world,[2240]--it is
evident from all this that the primitive inspiration has been diverted
or has cooled; that the endowment only partially fulfills its ends;
that one-half of its resources are employed in the wrong way or
remain sterile; in short, that there is a need of reformation in the
body.--That this ought to be effected with the co-operation of the State
and even under its direction is not less certain. For a corporation
is not an individual like other individuals, and, in order that it may
acquire or possess the privileges of an ordinary citizen, something
supplementary must be added, some fiction, some expedient of the law.
If the law is disposed to overlook the fact that a corporation is not a
natural personage, if it gives to it a civil personality, if it declares
it to be capable of inheriting, of acquiring and of selling, if it
becomes a protected and respected proprietor, this is due to the favors
of the State which places its tribunal and gendarmes at its service, and
which, in exchange for this service, justly imposes conditions on it,
and, among others, that of being useful and remaining useful, or at
least that of never becoming harmful. Such was the rule under the
Ancient Régime, and especially since the Government has for the last
quarter of a century gradually and efficaciously worked out a reform.
Not only, in 1749, had it prohibited the Church from accepting land,
either by donation, by testament, or in exchange, without royal
letters-patent registered in Parliament; not only in 1764 had it
abolished the order of Jesuits, closed their colleges and sold their
possessions, but also, since 1766, a permanent commission, formed by
the King's order and instructed by him, had lopped off all the dying and
dead branches of the ecclesiastical tree.[2241] There was a revision of
the primitive Constitutions; a prohibition to every institution to have
more than two monasteries at Paris and more than one in other towns; a
postponement of the age for taking vows--that of sixteen being no longer
permitted--to twenty-one for men and eighteen for women; an obligatory
minimum of monks and nuns for each establishment, which varies from
fifteen to nine according to circumstances; if this is not kept up there
follows a suppression or prohibition to receive novices: owing to
these measures, rigorously executed, at the end of twelve years
"the Grammontins, the Servites, the Celestins, the ancient order of
Saint-Bénédict, that of the Holy Ghost of Montpellier, and those
of Sainte-Brigitte, Sainte-Croix-de-la-Bretonnerie, Saint-Ruff, and
Saint-Antoine,"--in short, nine complete congregations had disappeared.
At the end of twenty years three hundred and eighty-six establishments
had been suppressed, the number of monks and nuns had diminished
one-third, the larger portion of possessions which had escheated were
usefully applied, and the congregations of men lacked novices and
complained that they could not fill up their ranks. If the monks were
still found to be too numerous, too wealthy, and too indolent, it was
merely necessary to keep on in this way; before the end of the century,
merely by the application of the edict, the institution would be
brought back, without brutality or injustice, within the scope of the
development, the limitations of fortune, and the class of functions
acceptable to a modern State.

But, because these ecclesiastical bodies stood in need of reform it does
not follow that it was necessary to destroy them, nor, in general,
that independent institutions are detrimental to a nation. Organized
purposely for a public service, and possessing, nearly or remotely under
the supervision of the State, the faculty of self-administration, these
bodies are valuable organs and not malign tumors.

In the first place, through their institution, a great public benefit
is secured without any cost to the government--worship, scientific
research, primary or higher education, help for the poor, care of the
sick--all set apart and sheltered from the cuts which public financial
difficulties might make necessary, and supported by the private
generosity which, finding a ready receptacle at hand, gathers together,
century after century, its thousands of scattered springs: as an
example, note the wealth, stability, and usefulness of the English and
German universities.

In the second place, their institution furnishes an obstacle to the
omnipotence of the State; their walls provide a protection against the
leveling standardization of absolute monarchy or of pure democracy. A
man can here freely develop himself without donning the livery of
either courtier or demagogue, he can acquire wealth, consideration and
authority, without being indebted to the caprices of either royal or
popular favor; he can stand firm against established or prevailing
opinions sheltered by associates bound by their esprit de corps. Such,
at the present day (1885), is the situation of a professor at Oxford,
Göttingen, and Harvard Such, under the Ancient Régime, were a bishop, a
member of the French Parliaments, and even a plain attorney. What can
be worse than universal bureaucracy, producing a mechanical and servile
uniformity! Those who serve the public need not all be Government
clerks; in countries where an aristocracy has perished, bodies of this
kind are their last place of refuge.

In the third place, through such institutions, distinct original
societies may come to be inside the great commonplace world. "Tell
me one thing, Lord Saltire; you have travelled in many countries. Is
there any land, east or west, that can give us what this dear old England
does--settled order, in which each man knows his place and his duties?
It is so easy to be good in England."
In
this way thousands of men and women fulfill at small cost, voluntarily
and gratis, and with great effect, the least attractive and more
repulsive social needs, thus performing in human society the role which,
inside the ant-hill, we see assigned to the sexless worker-ant.[2242]

Thus, at bottom, the institution was really good, and if it had to be
cauterized it was merely essential to remove the inert or corrupted
parts and preserve the healthy and sound parts.--Now, if we take only
the monastic bodies, there were more than one-half of these entitled
to respect. I omit those monks, one-third of whom remained zealous and
exemplary-the Benedictines, who continue the "Gallia Christiana," with
others who, at sixty years of age, labor in rooms without a fire;
the Trappists, who cultivate the ground with their own hands, and the
innumerable monasteries which serve as educational seminaries, bureaus
of charity, hospices for shelter, and of which all the villages in their
neighborhood demand the conservation by the National Assembly.[2243]
I have to mention the nuns, thirty-seven thousand in fifteen hundred
convents. Here, except in the twenty-five chapters of canonesses, which
are a semi-worldly rendezvous for poor young girls of noble birth,
fervor, frugality, and usefulness are almost everywhere incontestable.
One of the members of the Ecclesiastical Committee admits in the
Assembly tribunal that, in all their letters and addresses, the nuns ask
to be allowed to remain in their cloisters; their entreaties, in fact,
are as earnest as they are affecting.[2244] One Community writes,

"We should prefer the sacrifice of our lives to that of our calling
. . . . This is not the voice of some among our sisters, but of all. The
National Assembly has established the claims of liberty-would it prevent
the exercise of these by the only disinterested beings who ardently
desire to be useful, and have renounced society solely to be of greater
service to it?"

"The little contact we have with the world," writes another "is the
reason why our contentment is so little known. But it is not the less
real and substantial. We know of no distinctions, no privileges amongst
ourselves; our misfortunes and our property are in common. One in heart
and one in soul. . . we protest before the nation, in the face of heaven
and of earth, that it is not in the power of any being to shake our
fidelity to our vows, which vows we renew with still more ardor than
when we first pronounced them."[2245]

Many of the communities have no means of subsistence other than the work
of their own hands and the small dowries the nuns have brought with
them on entering the convent. On the loneliest, loveliest day in early
summer this smacks of tourist parties, and I made haste to leave the
river path and the sheltering trees and climb the road to Brendon,
a road as steep and hot, as stony and glaring, as I have ever climbed.

If we were living in society, our expenses would
be three times as much;" and, not content with providing for themselves,
they give in charity.

Among these communities several hundreds are educational establishments;
a very great number give gratuitous primary instruction.--Now, in 1789,
there are no other schools for girls, and were these to be suppressed,
every avenue of instruction and culture would be closed to one of the
two sexes, forming one-half of the French population. Fourteen thousand
sisters of charity, distributed among four hundred and twenty convents,
look after the hospitals, attend upon the sick, serve the infirm,
bring up foundlings, provide for orphans, lying-in women, and repentant
prostitutes. The "Visitation" is an asylum for "those who are not
favored by nature,"--and, in those days, there were many more of the
disfigured than at present, since out of every eight deaths one was
caused by the smallpox. Widows are received here, as well as girls
without means and without protection, persons "worn out with the
agitation of the world," those who are too feeble to support the battle
of life, those who withdraw from it wounded or invalid, and "the rules
of the order, not very strict, are not beyond the health or strength
of the most frail and delicate." Some ingenious device of charity thus
applies to each moral or social sore, with skill and care, the proper
and proportionate dressing. And finally, far from falling off, nearly
all these communities are in a flourishing state, and whilst among the
establishments for men there are only nine, on the average, to each,
in those for women there is an average of twenty-four. Here, at
Saint-Flour, is one which is bringing up fifty boarders; another, at
Beaulieu, instructs one hundred; another, in Franche-Comté, has charge
of eight hundred abandoned children.[2246]--Evidently, in the presence
of such institutions one must pause, however little one may care for
justice and the public interest; and, moreover, because it is useless
to act rigorously against them the legislator crushes them in vain, for
they spring up again of their own accord; they are in the blood of every
Catholic nation. In France, instead of thirty-seven thousand nuns, at
the present day (1866) there are eighty-six thousand-that is to say,
forty-five in every ten thousand women instead of twenty-eight.[2247]

