Nature had indulged Descartes with a shining and strong imagination,
whence he became a very singular person both in private life and in his
manner of reasoning.  This imagination could not conceal itself even in
his philosophical works, which are everywhere adorned with very shining,
ingenious metaphors and figures.  Nature had almost made him a poet; and
indeed he wrote a piece of poetry for the entertainment of Christina,
Queen of Sweden, which however was suppressed in honour to his memory.

He embraced a military life for some time, and afterwards becoming a
complete philosopher, he did not think the passion of love derogatory to
his character.  He had by his mistress a daughter called Froncine, who
died young, and was very much regretted by him.  Thus he experienced
every passion incident to mankind.

He was a long time of opinion that it would be necessary for him to fly
from the society of his fellow creatures, and especially from his native
country, in order to enjoy the happiness of cultivating his philosophical
studies in full liberty.

Descartes was very right, for his contemporaries were not knowing enough
to improve and enlighten his understanding, and were capable of little
else than of giving him uneasiness.

He left France purely to go in search of truth, which was then persecuted
by the wretched philosophy of the schools.  However, he found that reason
was as much disguised and depraved in the universities of Holland, into
which he withdrew, as in his own country.  For at the time that the
French condemned the only propositions of his philosophy which were true,
he was persecuted by the pretended philosophers of Holland, who
understood him no better; and who, having a nearer view of his glory,
hated his person the more, so that he was obliged to leave Utrecht.
Descartes was injuriously accused of being an atheist, the last refuge of
religious scandal: and he who had employed all the sagacity and
penetration of his genius, in searching for new proofs of the existence
of a God, was suspected to believe there was no such Being.

Such a persecution from all sides, must necessarily suppose a most
exalted merit as well as a very distinguished reputation, and indeed he
possessed both.  Reason at that time darted a ray upon the world through
the gloom of the schools, and the prejudices of popular superstition.  At
last his name spread so universally, that the French were desirous of
bringing him back into his native country by rewards, and accordingly
offered him an annual pension of a thousand crowns.  Upon these hopes
Descartes returned to France; paid the fees of his patent, which was sold
at that time, but no pension was settled upon him.  Thus disappointed, he
returned to his solitude in North Holland, where he again pursued the
study of philosophy, whilst the great Galileo, at fourscore years of age,
was groaning in the prisons of the Inquisition, only for having
demonstrated the earth's motion.

At last Descartes was snatched from the world in the flower of his age at
Stockholm.  His death was owing to a bad regimen, and he expired in the
midst of some literati who were his enemies, and under the hands of a
physician to whom he was odious.

The progress of Sir Isaac Newton's life was quite different.  He lived
happy, and very much honoured in his native country, to the age of
fourscore and five years.

It was his peculiar felicity, not only to be born in a country of
liberty, but in an age when all scholastic impertinences were banished
from the world.  Reason alone was cultivated, and mankind could only be
his pupil, not his enemy.

One very singular difference in the lives of these two great men is, that
Sir Isaac, during the long course of years he enjoyed, was never sensible
to any passion, was not subject to the common frailties of mankind, nor
ever had any commerce with women--a circumstance which was assured me by
the physician and surgeon who attended him in his last moments.

We may admire Sir Isaac Newton on this occasion, but then we must not
censure Descartes.

The opinion that generally prevails in England with regard to these new
philosophers is, that the latter was a dreamer, and the former a sage.

Very few people in England read Descartes, whose works indeed are now
useless.  On the other side, but a small number peruse those of Sir
Isaac, because to do this the student must be deeply skilled in the
mathematics, otherwise those works will be unintelligible to him.  But
notwithstanding this, these great men are the subject of everyone's
discourse.  Sir Isaac Newton is allowed every advantage, whilst Descartes
is not indulged a single one.  According to some, it is to the former
that we owe the discovery of a vacuum, that the air is a heavy body, and
the invention of telescopes.  In a word, Sir Isaac Newton is here as the
Hercules of fabulous story, to whom the ignorant ascribed all the feats
of ancient heroes.

In a critique that was made in London on Mr. de Fontenelle's discourse,
the writer presumed to assert that Descartes was not a great
geometrician.  Those who make such a declaration may justly be reproached
with flying in their master's face.  Descartes extended the limits of
geometry as far beyond the place where he found them, as Sir Isaac did
after him.  The former first taught the method of expressing curves by
equations.  This geometry which, thanks to him for it, is now grown
common, was so abstruse in his time, that not so much as one professor
would undertake to explain it; and Schotten in Holland, and Format in
France, were the only men who understood it.

He applied this geometrical and inventive genius to dioptrics, which,
when treated of by him, became a new art.  And if he was mistaken in some
things, the reason of that is, a man who discovers a new tract of land
cannot at once know all the properties of the soil.  Those who come after
him, and make these lands fruitful, are at least obliged to him for the
discovery.  I will not deny but that there are innumerable errors in the
rest of Descartes' works.

Geometry was a guide he himself had in some measure fashioned, which
would have conducted him safely through the several paths of natural
philosophy.  Nevertheless, he at last abandoned this guide, and gave
entirely into the humour of forming hypotheses; and then philosophy was
no more than an ingenious romance, fit only to amuse the ignorant.  He
was mistaken in the nature of the soul, in the proofs of the existence of
a God, in matter, in the laws of motion, and in the nature of light.  He
admitted innate ideas, he invented new elements, he created a world; he
made man according to his own fancy; and it is justly said, that the man
of Descartes is, in fact, that of Descartes only, very different from the
real one.

He pushed his metaphysical errors so far, as to declare that two and two
make four for no other reason but because God would have it so.  However,
it will not be making him too great a compliment if we affirm that he was
valuable even in his mistakes.  He deceived himself; but then it was at
least in a methodical way.  He destroyed all the absurd chimeras with
which youth had been infatuated for two thousand years.  He taught his
contemporaries how to reason, and enabled them to employ his own weapons
against himself.  If Descartes did not pay in good money, he however did
great service in crying down that of a base alloy.

I indeed believe that very few will presume to compare his philosophy in
any respect with that of Sir Isaac Newton.  The former is an essay, the
latter a masterpiece.  But then the man who first brought us to the path
of truth, was perhaps as great a genius as he who afterwards conducted us
through it.

Descartes gave sight to the blind.  These saw the errors of antiquity and
of the sciences.  The path he struck out is since become boundless.
Rohault's little work was, during some years, a complete system of
physics; but now all the Transactions of the several academies in Europe
put together do not form so much as the beginning of a system.  In
fathoming this abyss no bottom has been found.  We are now to examine
what discoveries Sir Isaac Newton has made in it.


LETTER XV.--ON ATTRACTION


The discoveries which gained Sir Isaac Newton so universal a reputation,
relate to the system of the world, to light, to geometrical infinities;
and, lastly, to chronology, with which he used to amuse himself after the
fatigue of his severer studies.

I will now acquaint you (without prolixity if possible) with the few
things I have been able to comprehend of all these sublime ideas.  With
regard to the system of our world, disputes were a long time maintained,
on the cause that turns the planets, and keeps them in their orbits: and
on those causes which make all bodies here below descend towards the
surface of the earth.

The system of Descartes, explained and improved since his time, seemed to
give a plausible reason for all those phenomena; and this reason seemed
more just, as it is simple and intelligible to all capacities.  But in
philosophy, a student ought to doubt of the things he fancies he
understands too easily, as much as of those he does not understand.

Gravity, the falling of accelerated bodies on the earth, the revolution
of the planets in their orbits, their rotations round their axis, all
this is mere motion.  Now motion cannot perhaps be conceived any
otherwise than by impulsion; therefore all those bodies must be impelled.
But by what are they impelled?  All space is full, it therefore is filled
with a very subtile matter, since this is imperceptible to us; this
matter goes from west to east, since all the planets are carried from
west to east.  Thus from hypothesis to hypothesis, from one appearance to
another, philosophers have imagined a vast whirlpool of subtile matter,
in which the planets are carried round the sun: they also have created
another particular vortex which floats in the great one, and which turns
daily round the planets.  When all this is done, it is pretended that
gravity depends on this diurnal motion; for, say these, the velocity of
the subtile matter that turns round our little vortex, must be seventeen
times more rapid than that of the earth; or, in case its velocity is
seventeen times greater than that of the earth, its centrifugal force
must be vastly greater, and consequently impel all bodies towards the
earth.  This is the cause of gravity, according to the Cartesian system.
But the theorist, before he calculated the centrifugal force and velocity
of the subtile matter, should first have been certain that it existed.

Sir Isaac Newton, seems to have destroyed all these great and little
vortices, both that which carries the planets round the sun, as well as
the other which supposes every planet to turn on its own axis.

First, with regard to the pretended little vortex of the earth, it is
demonstrated that it must lose its motion by insensible degrees; it is
demonstrated, that if the earth swims in a fluid, its density must be
equal to that of the earth; and in case its density be the same, all the
bodies we endeavour to move must meet with an insuperable resistance.

With regard to the great vortices, they are still more chimerical, and it
is impossible to make them agree with Kepler's law, the truth of which
has been demonstrated.  Sir Isaac shows, that the revolution of the fluid
in which Jupiter is supposed to be carried, is not the same with regard
to the revolution of the fluid of the earth, as the revolution of Jupiter
with respect to that of the earth.  He proves, that as the planets make
their revolutions in ellipses, and consequently being at a much greater
distance one from the other in their Aphelia, and a little nearer in
their Perihelia; the earth's velocity, for instance, ought to be greater
when it is nearer Venus and Mars, because the fluid that carries it
along, being then more pressed, ought to have a greater motion; and yet
it is even then that the earth's motion is slower.

He proves that there is no such thing as a celestial matter which goes
from west to east since the comets traverse those spaces, sometimes from
east to west, and at other times from north to south.

In fine, the better to resolve, if possible, every difficulty, he proves,
and even by experiments, that it is impossible there should be a plenum;
and brings back the vacuum, which Aristotle and Descartes had banished
from the world.

Having by these and several other arguments destroyed the Cartesian
vortices, he despaired of ever being able to discover whether there is a
secret principle in nature which, at the same time, is the cause of the
motion of all celestial bodies, and that of gravity on the earth.  But
being retired in 1666, upon account of the Plague, to a solitude near
Cambridge; as he was walking one day in his garden, and saw some fruits
fall from a tree, he fell into a profound meditation on that gravity, the
cause of which had so long been sought, but in vain, by all the
philosophers, whilst the vulgar think there is nothing mysterious in it.
He said to himself; that from what height soever in our hemisphere, those
bodies might descend, their fall would certainly be in the progression
discovered by Galileo; and the spaces they run through would be as the
square of the times.  Why may not this power which causes heavy bodies to
descend, and is the same without any sensible diminution at the remotest
distance from the centre of the earth, or on the summits of the highest
mountains, why, said Sir Isaac, may not this power extend as high as the
moon?  And in case its influence reaches so far, is it not very probable
that this power retains it in its orbit, and determines its motion?  But
in case the moon obeys this principle (whatever it be) may we not
conclude very naturally that the rest of the planets are equally subject
to it?  In case this power exists (which besides is proved) it must
increase in an inverse ratio of the squares of the distances.  All,
therefore, that remains is, to examine how far a heavy body, which should
fall upon the earth from a moderate height, would go; and how far in the
same time, a body which should fall from the orbit of the moon, would
descend.  To find this, nothing is wanted but the measure of the earth,
and the distance of the moon from it.

Thus Sir Isaac Newton reasoned.  But at that time the English had but a
very imperfect measure of our globe, and depended on the uncertain
supposition of mariners, who computed a degree to contain but sixty
English miles, whereas it consists in reality of near seventy.  As this
false computation did not agree with the conclusions which Sir Isaac
intended to draw from them, he laid aside this pursuit.  A half-learned
philosopher, remarkable only for his vanity, would have made the measure
of the earth agree, anyhow, with his system.  Sir Isaac, however, chose
rather to quit the researches he was then engaged in.  But after Mr.
Picard had measured the earth exactly, by tracing that meridian which
redounds so much to the honour of the French, Sir Isaac Newton resumed
his former reflections, and found his account in Mr. Picard's
calculation.

A circumstance which has always appeared wonderful to me, is that such
sublime discoveries should have been made by the sole assistance of a
quadrant and a little arithmetic.

