    The Queen's Procureur.--The Queen's Comptroller.--Her Majesty's
             Receiver-General.--Greffier.--Sheriff.
              The Advocates of the Royal Court.
             The late Bailiff's Medical Attendants.
      The Douzeniers of each parish, headed by their respective
                  Constables, four abreast.
           Relatives, with Hat Bands, four abreast.
          The Order of Rechabites in full procession.
         A Deputation of the Total Abstinence Society,
              headed by Mr. Edmund Richards.

"The procession proceeded in solemn order down the Grange Road, until it
reached the College, when it turned to the left, and passed on to the
eastern entrance of the new burying ground, and from thence proceeded to
the grave, near the opposite extremity of the cemetery, which was
destined to be the final resting place of the aged patriot. The persons
who composed the _cortège_ having been formed in order round the grave,
the sublime and solemn ritual of the Church of England was read in a
feeling and impressive manner by the Very Reverend the Dean, the coffin
being at the proper period of the service committed to the bosom of the
earth in profound and solemn silence. When the service was concluded, a
great many persons approached the border of the grave to take a farewell
look at the narrow tenement which now contained the remains of a man
who, but a few short hours back, had occupied so prominent a position in
his native land. Many a sigh was breathed, many a tear was shed upon
that grave; and many and various were the expressions of affection and
regret which there found utterance, and which seemed to say

    'We ne'er shall look upon his like again.'

"On no similar occasion had there ever been collected so large a
concourse of persons in this island. Some pains were taken to ascertain
the number of those who entered the burial ground, and it is believed
that they considerably exceeded 4,000. An equal, or perhaps a larger
number, were dispersed, as spectators, in the Grange Road and adjacent
parts. Every house that commanded a glimpse of the procession, or the
interment, was crowded. The windows, even, to the attics, were peopled;
whilst walls, gardens, and every spot from which any thing could be
seen, were in like manner occupied. Notwithstanding the extraordinary
number of persons collected, a very creditable degree of order and
decorum was maintained throughout the whole of the proceedings."[163]

The union jack was hoisted half mast at Fort George and Castle Cornet
from the day succeeding the bailiff's death to that of his funeral, on
which days also the bells of the parish church of St. Peter-Port were
tolled, and the flags of the vessels in the two harbours and roadstead
were hoisted half mast. On the day of the interment, the shops in St.
Peter-Port were entirely closed until the mournful ceremony was
completed.

The lieutenant-governor of the island, Major-General Napier, the
celebrated historian of the Peninsular war, evinced, in a manner as
creditable to his feelings as it was gratifying to those of the family,
an anxious desire to pay every respect to the memory of the deceased,
his excellency, with the officers of his staff, and Lieut.-General
Ross, and Lieut.-General Sir James Douglas, ex-lieutenant-governors,
attending the funeral in full uniform, as did all the officers of the
garrison, and the officers of the five regiments of militia. All the
civil and military authorities, as well as the whole of the clergy of
the island, were present.

      *      *      *      *      *

The following remarks are extracted from a long and ably written article
of nearly two columns, in the Guernsey _Star_ of Monday, September 26,
1842, in which the last moments and character of Mr. Brock were
feelingly portrayed by the editor, an English gentleman:


    "Mr. Brock's career, his talents, his services, and his
    amiable qualities, are so familiar to every native and
    inhabitant of Guernsey--they have, as it were, become so much
    the common property of the community--they have been so much
    the objects of their study--so constantly the theme of their
    praise and admiration--that it may seem almost a work of
    supererogation in us to make any observation on them on the
    present melancholy occasion. We cannot, however, allow the
    grave to close upon him without strewing it with some of those
    offerings of respect and praise which spontaneously spring to
    our hand as we pen the notice of his death. We feel that we
    enjoy considerable latitude on this occasion, because, from
    having been for years the political antagonists of Mr. Brock,
    and having braved his hostility when living, our tribute to
    his memory cannot be looked on as other than the genuine
    offspring of our feeling and our judgment.

    "Mr. Brock was not an ordinary man. He was constituted of
    materials which would have led their owner to distinction in
    whatever sphere he might have been placed. Indebted but little
    to early education, he possessed within himself a faculty of
    extracting knowledge from every thing that came within his
    observation; and, gifted with a powerful memory, a reflecting
    mind, and the art of methodizing and arranging the ideas and
    information which he acquired, he was enabled at all times to
    bring a mass of well digested and pertinent knowledge to bear
    upon and illustrate any subject which he was required to
    discuss. He had a singular talent for comprehending principles
    and for seizing information, and arranging and applying it; so
    that there were few subjects upon which he entered on which he
    could not lay down sound principles, and illustrate and
    maintain them by sound arguments. Too confident of his
    strength, and perhaps over-elated with his many victories, he
    would sometimes venture on untenable ground, and expose
    himself to the inroads of an able enemy; but these
    indiscretions were of rare occurrence, and the memory of his
    temporary checks was generally cancelled by the skilfulness of
    his retreats.

    "If Mr. Brock was thus distinguished for his mental powers, he
    was no less so by the strength and felicity of his style of
    writing. He had the rare talent of putting proper words in
    their proper places. He wrote English with English plainness
    and English force. There was nothing affected or _modish_ in
    his manner. He gave his readers an impression that he was
    clear in the conception of his own meaning, and he made it
    equally so to them. He aimed at no ornament: the beauty of his
    writings consisted in their perspicuity and strength. A verbal
    critic might discover inaccuracies in his compositions, but
    the man of sense would find in them nothing unmeaning---
    nothing useless--nothing vapid. He was not a turner of fine
    periods--he was not a _fine writer_--but he wrote with
    strength, precision, and lucidity; and his compositions, even
    where they failed to produce conviction, could never be read
    without creating respect for the masculine talents of their
    author......

    "But the main ground on which the memory of Daniel De Lisle
    Brock must rest its claims on the affection, the respect, and
    the gratitude of his fellow countrymen, is the devoted--the
    engrossing love which, during his whole life, he bore to his
    native land. Every thought, every wish, every feeling of pride
    or ambition, centered in his beloved Guernsey. She was the
    idol of his affections--the object of all his solicitude--the
    glory of his inmost heart. His endeavours for her welfare may
    occasionally have been misdirected--his objections to change
    in her institutions may have been ill-founded--but his motives
    have ever been beyond the reach of suspicion or reproach. They
    were concentrated in the desire for her good. Her people, her
    soil, her laws, her customs, nay, even her prejudices, were
    dear to him--they were his household gods. He worshipped them,
    he lived for them, and he would have died for them......

    "The private character of Mr. Brock presents an embellishing
    and graceful adjunct to his public qualities. Bold even to
    temerity in his acts; firm even to obstinacy in his opinions;
    entertaining an exalted estimate of the office that he filled,
    and of the interests that he embodied or represented in his
    person, he was, at the same time, simple, courteous, and
    benevolent in his private manner, to a degree that was as
    honorable to himself, as it was gratifying to those who came
    in contact with him. Mr. Brock on the bench, and Mr. Brock in
    private, were distinct characters. In the former position,
    conscious, probably, of his talents and his authority, he was
    firm, and sometimes, though rarely, in appearance even
    imperious; in the latter, resigning himself to the feelings
    of the gentleman, he was affable, kind, and even diffident. In
    his privacy he displayed all the attributes of a superior
    mind. He was entirely devoid of pride and ostentation: his
    mind was superior to the weakness they denote. He disdained
    the conventional habits of society, for nature had created him
    a gentleman, and he needed not the aid of art. He mingled not
    in that society where he might have received the homage to
    which his talents were entitled. He spent his time in study,
    or in working for the public welfare; his relaxations being in
    his fields and garden, or in the conversation of casual
    visitors who, uninvited, occasionally resorted to his
    unceremonious and hospitable roof. Ardent as he was in
    political discussions, prone as he was to enter into
    controversy, the feelings of animosity which he expressed died
    in their utterance. The adversary of to-day was the welcome
    guest of the morrow. The hand which had distilled the gall of
    disputation at one moment, was readily extended in kind
    fellowship the next. Mr. Brock was probably not exempt from
    failings, but he had certainly nothing of littleness about
    him. He respected an honorable and open adversary, more than a
    flattering and servile friend. His hostility was strong, but
    it was shortlived: his enmity was vigorous, but it had no
    memory. In other respects, too, he evinced a generous and
    benevolent heart. At all seasons and under all circumstances,
    his time and attention were willingly devoted to those who
    sought his assistance or advice. He was the friend and
    counsellor of all. Many is the angry feeling he has
    allayed--many the lawsuit he has prevented--many the family
    division he has closed. His kind offices were at the command
    of all. No labour was too great for him, when called on for
    his assistance; but if at any time he found himself obliged to
    reject a claim which was made on him, he so softened his
    refusal with courtesy and kindness, that the disappointed
    seldom left him without experiencing a sense of obligation.

