That way is not
ours, exactly; but we have known human beings about as venomous as
this creature, and with precisely the same tendency to pierce
one. They do it with their tongues, it is true, but the perforation
is complete.But although the arts of painting and
sculpture continued to flourish until the death of the last of the
twelve Cæsars, yet they did not maintain  that perfection and
excellence which had characterised them before, as is seen as seen in
the buildings of the time. The arts declined steadily from day to
day, until at length by a gradual process they entirety lost all
perfection of design. Clear testimony to this is afforded by the
works in sculpture and architecture produced in Rome in the time of
Constantine, notably in the triumphal arch made for him by the Roman
people at the Colosseum, where we see, that for lack of good masters
not only did they make use of marble works carved in the time of
Trajan, but also of spoils brought to Rome from various places. These
bas-reliefs, statues, the columns, the cornices and other ornaments
which belong to another epoch only serve to expose the defects in
those parts of the work which are entirely due to the sculptors of
the day and which  are most rude. Very rude also are some scenes of
small figures in marble under the circles and the pediment,
representing victories, while between the side arches there are some
rivers also very crude and so poor that they leave one firmly under
the impression that the art of sculpture had been in a state of
decadence for a long while. Yet the Goths and the other barbarous and
foreign nations who combined to destroy all the superior arts in
Italy had not then appeared. It is true that architecture suffered
less than the other arts of design. The bath erected by Constantine
at the entrance of the principal portico of the Lateran contains, in
addition to its porphyry columns, capitals carved in marble and
beautifully carved double bases taken from elsewhere, the whole
composition of the building being very well ordered. On the other
hand, the stucco, the mosaic and some incrustations of the walls made
by the masters of the time are not equal to those which had been
taken away for the most part from the temples of the gods of the
heathen, and which Constantine caused to be placed in the same
building. Constantine observed the same methods, according to report,
with the garden of Æquitius in building the temple which he
afterwards endowed and gave to Christian priests. In like manner the
magnificent church of S. but so grand and wonderful as to be really
indescribable. So we find them, by their turgid and stupid
reports, which are all alike, and all dreary and silly. We have
never heard of anybody who got excited over these pictures (except
the artists themselves); and positively there is no flatter reading
anywhere than these gushing notes about big caves.

* * * * *
GEOMETRICAL.

Why is it that we hear so much of the proper "Sphere" of woman? Here
is that noble exile, the Princess Editha Montez, lecturing again,
and her subject, of course, is the Spherical one. So when Mesdames
Stanton, Dickinson, Anthony, Howe--all the lovely lecturers--discourse,
they forget the platform which is plane, and discuss the "sphere"
which is mysterious. Can it possibly be that it is because these amiable
gentlewomen are always going round? Or is it because they cannot
help reasoning in a circle? Or is there some occult relation between
spheres and hoops? Or has the wedding-ring something to do with it?
It should be understood, that these are questions addressed solely
to male mathematicians; for Mr. P. is unlike John Graham, and doesn't
care to cross-examine ladies.

* * * * *
SECRETION EXTRAORDINARY.

It is done by Mollusks. We can tell you even the precise kind--it
is the Gasteropod kind. Not only this, we know the very devil himself
that does it. (And you will say that "devil" is not a particle too
rough a term, when we come to tell what it is he "secretes.") It
is the _Dolium galea_, good friends, and we could tell you six other
kinds that are suspected of this meanness. One of 'em is the
_Pleurobranchidium_ --which, of course, you have often heard of.Who also is not aware that the font which served for the baptism of
the latter and of one of her sisters, was ornamented with fragments
of great antiquity? as were the porphyry pillar carved with beautiful
figures and some marble candelabra exquisitely carved with leaves,
and some children in bas-relief of extraordinary beauty? In short, by
these and many other signs, it is clear that sculpture was in
decadence in the time of Constantine, and with it the other superior
arts. If anything was required to complete their ruin it was supplied
by the departure of Constantine from Rome when he transferred the
seat of government to Byzantium, as he took with him to Greece not
only all the best sculptors and other artists of the age, such as
they were, but also a quantity of statues and other beautiful works
of sculpture.

After the departure of Constantine, the Caesars whom he left in
Italy, were continually building in Rome and elsewhere, endeavouring
to make these works as good as possible, but as we see, sculpture,
painting and architecture were steadily going from bad to worse. This
arose perhaps from the fact that when human affairs begin to decline,
they grow steadily worse until the time comes when they can no longer
deteriorate any further. In the time of Pope Liberius the architects
of the day took considerable pains to produce a masterpiece when they
built S. Maria Maggiore, but they were not very happy in the result,
because although the building, which is also mostly constructed of
spoils, is of very fair proportions, it cannot be denied that, not to
speak of other defects, the decoration of the church with stucco and
painting above the columns is of very poor design, and that many
other things to be seen there leave no doubt as to the degradation of
the arts. Many years later, when the Christians were suffering
persecution under Julian the Apostate, a church was erected on the
Celian Hill to SS. John and Paul, the martyrs, in so inferior a style
to the others mentioned above that it is quite clear that at that
time, art had all but entirely disappeared. The edifices erected in
Tuscany at the same time bear out this view to the fullest extent.
* * * * *
ANY MORE CAVES?

About the dreariest magazine or other reading we know of--and we get a
deal of it, too--is that which describes the visits of enthusiastic
persons to big caves underground, very dark, damp, dreary, ugly,
funereal--with winding ways and huge holes, water with eyeless fish,
and certain drippings called stalagmites and stalactites. The
enthusiasts, who always possess that priceless treasure self-satisfaction,
and a boundless capacity for wonder (which is always ready to
exercise itself with anything that is big, however ugly), and the
"Palaces," and "Halls," and "Cascades," and "Altars," and "Bridal
Wreaths" they see there are not only finer than real ones (if you
would believe them!)For my own part, I have no doubt, seeing the expense
incurred, that if the Aretines had been able to employ better
architects they would have produced something marvellous, since what
they actually accomplished proves that they spared themselves nothing
in order to make this building as magnificent and complete as
possible. But as architecture had lost less of its excellence than
the other arts, as I have often said before, some good things may be
seen there. At the same period the church of S. Maria in Grado was
enlarged in honour of St Hilarion, who had lived in the city a long
time before he accompanied Donato to receive the palm of martyrdom.
But as Fortune, when she has brought men to the top of the wheel,
either for amusement or because she repents, usually turns them to
the bottom, it came to pass after these things that almost all the
barbarian nations rose in divers parts of the world against the
Romans, the result being the abasement of that great empire in a
short time, and the destruction of everything, notably of Rome
herself. That fall involved the complete destruction of the most
excellent artists, sculptors, painters and architects who abandoned
their profession and were themselves buried and submerged under the
debris and ruins of that most celebrated city. The first to go were
painting and sculpture, as being arts which served rather for
pleasure than for utility, the other art, namely architecture, being
necessary and useful for the welfare of the body, continued in use,
but not in its perfection and purity. The very memory of painting and
sculpture would have speedily disappeared had they not represented
before the eyes of the rising generation, the distinguished men of
another age. Some of them were commemorated by effigies and by
inscriptions placed on public and private buildings, such as
amphitheatres, theatres, baths, aqueducts, temples, obelisks,
colosseums, pyramids, arches, reservoirs and treasuries, yes, and
even on the very tombs. In fact he could even tell by it when we
were going to have rain. His "blooming barometer" he called it. Here
he laughed--a hearty laugh, for he was a genial blade and liked
to hear himself talk.

The first soldier did not laugh, but was interested. He thought
it a convenient thing to have a leg that foretold the weather.

"Which one is it?" he asked.

"The left."
The first soldier was disproportionately impressed.

"The left, is it?" he said heavily, as though he would have understood
the phenomenon in the right easily enough. "The left."
Completely unconscious of the danger-signals, the second soldier
now began to unload his repertory of stories, and he started off
with that excellent one, very popular in the early days of the War,
about the wealthy private.Thus true men and
every sort of virtue perished at the same time; laws, habits, names
and tongues suffered change, and these varied misfortunes,
collectively and singly, debased and degraded every fine spirit and
every lofty soul. But the most harmful and destructive force which
operated against these fine arts was the fervent zeal of the new
Christian religion, which, after long and sanguinary strife, had at
length vanquished and abolished the old faith of the heathen, by
means of a number of miracles and by the sincerity of its acts. Under
the mellowing influence of our Curried Bully he unbent somewhat
and encouraged the Ancient on his pet subject. Under the influence
of the latter's theories he unbent still further. He discoursed upon
the true inwardness of the military method of running an
office, pausing at last for the Ancient to say a few words.
"Oh," said he, "I don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like
that. There's many a kind heart behind a Buff slip, and we all
have our little weaknesses."Besides all this, in order to build churches
for the use of the Christians, not only were the most honoured
temples of the idols destroyed, but in order to ennoble and decorate
S. Peter's with more ornaments than it then possessed, the mole of
Hadrian, now the castle of S. Angelo, was despoiled of its stone
columns, as well as of many other things which are now seen in ruins.

Now, although the Christian religion did not act thus from any hatred
for talent, but only because of its contempt for the heathen gods,
yet the utter ruin of these honourable professions, which entirely
lost their form, was none the less entirely due to this burning zeal.
He had evidently had great success with this story. His expression
indicated approaching triumph.

But no anticipatory gleam lit the face of his new friend. It was in
fact one of those faces into which words sink as into a sandbank--a
white, puffy, long face, with a moustache of obsolete bushiness.

"I thought I should have died of laughing," the other resumed,
utterly unsuspicious, wholly undeterred.
In the far corner I kept my eye on my book but my ears open. I could
see that he was rushing to his doom.The ground floors of the
palaces and other building had been adorned with paintings, stuccos
and statues, and these were buried under the debris, so that many
good things have come to light in our own day. Those who came after,
judging everything to be ruined, planted vines over them so that
these ruined chambers remained entirely underground, and the moderns
have called them grottos and the paintings found there grotesques.
The Ostrogoths being exterminated by Narses, the ruins of Rome were
inhabited in a wretched fashion when after an interval of a hundred
years there came the Emperor Constans of Constantinople, who was
received in a friendly manner by the Romans. By far the most
brilliant of the "sunbeams," for instance, published in that
journal of November 1st, is the quaint and charming little
poem there headed "Sally Salter," and written originally for
Punchinello, in the issue of which publication for Oct.
1st it made its first appearance, under the title of "The Lovers."
We congratulate the _Sun_ on having thus successfully lit its pipe
with Punchinello's fire, though we think it might have been gracious
enough to have acknowledged the favor.But as
if the troubles of Rome had not been sufficient, for the things which
had been taken away could never return, there came an army of
Saracens to ravage that island, who carried away the property of the
Sicilians and the spoils of Rome to Alexandria, to the infinite shame
and loss of Italy and of all Christendom. Thus what the popes had not
destroyed, notably St Gregory, who is said to have put under the ban
all that remained of the statues and of the spoils of the buildings,
finally perished through the instrumentality of this traitorous
Greek. Not a trace or a vestige of any good thing remained, so that
the generations which followed being rough and material, particularly
in painting and sculpture, yet feeling themselves impelled by nature
and inspired by the atmosphere of the place, set themselves to
produce things, not indeed according to the rules of art, for they
had none, but as they were instructed by their own intelligence.

