XL. Whatsoever ideas in the mind follow from ideas which are
therein adequate, are also  themselves adequate.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is self-evident.  For when we say
that an idea in the human  mind follows from ideas which are
therein adequate, we say, in other words (II. xi. Cor.),  that an
idea is in the divine intellect, whereof God is the cause, not in
so far as he is  infinite, nor in so far as he is affected by the
ideas of very many particular things, but only  in so far as he
constitutes the essence of the human mind.

*****Note I--I have thus set forth the cause of those notions,
which are common to all  men, and which form the basis of our
ratiocinations.  But there are other causes of certain  axioms or
notions, which it would be to the purpose to set forth by this
method of ours; for  it would thus appear what notions are more
useful than others, and what notions have  scarcely any use at
all.  Furthermore, we should see what notions are common to all
men,  and what notions are only clear and distinct to those who
are unshackled by prejudice, and  we should detect those which
are ill-founded.  Again we should discern whence the notions 
called "secondary" derived their origin, and consequently the
axioms on which they are  founded, and other points of interest
connected with these questions.  But I have decided  to pass over
the subject here, partly because I have set it aside for another
treatise, partly  because I am afraid of wearying the reader by
too great prolixity.  Nevertheless, in order  not to omit
anything necessary to be known, I will briefly set down the
causes, whence are  derived the terms styled "transcendental,"
such as Being, Thing, Something.  These terms  arose from the
fact, that the human body, being limited, is only capable of
distinctly  forming a certain number of images (what an image is
I explained in the II. xvii. note)  within itself at the same
time; if this number be exceeded, the images will begin to be 
confused; if this number of images, of which the body is capable
of forming distinctly  within itself, be largely exceeded, all
will become entirely confused one with another.  This  being so,
it is evident (from II. Prop. xvii. Cor., and xviii.) that the
human mind can  distinctly imagine as many things simultaneously,
as its body can form images  simultaneously.  When the images
become quite confused in the body, the mind also  imagines all
bodies confusedly without any distinction, and will comprehend
them, as it  were, under one attribute, namely, under the
attribute of Being, Thing, &c.  The same  conclusion can be drawn
from the fact that images are not always equally vivid, and from 
other analogous causes, which there is no need to explain here;
for the purpose which we  have in view it is sufficient for us to
consider one only.  All may be reduced to this, that  these terms
represent ideas in the highest degree confused.  From similar
causes arise those  notions, which we call "general," such as
man, horse, dog, &c.  They arise, to wit, from  the fact that so
many images, for instance, of men, are formed simultaneously in
the  human mind, that the powers of imagination break down, not
indeed utterly, but to the  extent of the mind losing count of
small differences between individuals (e.g. colour, size,  &c.)
and their definite number, and only distinctly imagining that, in
which all the  individuals, in so far as the body is affected by
them, agree; for that is the point, in which  each of the said
individuals chiefly affected the body; this the mind expresses by
the name  man, and this it predicates of an infinite number of
particular individuals.  For, as we have  said, it is unable to
imagine the definite number of individuals.  We must, however,
bear in  mind, that these general notions are not formed by all
men in the same way, but vary in  each individual according as
the point varies, whereby the body has been most often  affected
and which the mind most easily imagines or remembers.  For
instance, those who  have most often regarded with admiration the
stature of man, will by the name of man  understand an animal of
erect stature; those who have been accustomed to regard some 
other attribute, will form a different general image of man, for
instance, that man is a  laughing animal, a two-footed animal
without feathers, a rational animal, and thus, in other  cases,
everyone will form general images of things according to the
habit of his body.

It is thus not to be wondered at, that among philosophers, who
seek to explain things in  nature merely by the images formed of
them, so many controversies should have arisen.

*****Note II--From all that has been said above it is clear, that
we, in many cases,  perceive and form our general notions:--(1.)
From particular things represented to our  intellect
fragmentarily, confusedly, and without order through our senses
(II. xxix. Cor.);  I have settled to call such perceptions by the
name of knowledge from the mere  suggestions of experience.  (2.)
From symbols, e.g., from the fact of having read or heard 
certain words we remember things and form certain ideas
concerning them, similar to those  through which we imagine
things (II. xviii. Note).  I shall call both these ways of
regarding  things "knowledge of the first kind," "opinion," or
"imagination."  (3.) From the fact that  we have notions common
to all men, and adequate ideas of the properties of things (II. 
xxxviii. Cor., xxxix. and Cor., and xl.); this I call "reason"
and "knowledge of the second  kind."  Besides these two kinds of
knowledge, there is, as I will hereafter show, a third  kind of
knowledge, which we will call intuition.  This kind of knowledge
proceeds from an  adequate idea of the absolute essence of
certain attributes of God to the adequate  knowledge of the
essence of things.  I will illustrate all three kinds of
knowledge by a  single example.  Three numbers are given for
finding a fourth, which shall be to the third  as the second is
to the first.  Tradesmen without hesitation multiply the second
by the third,  and divide the product by the first; either
because they have not forgotten the rule which  they received
from a master without any proof, or because they have often made
trial of  it with simple numbers, or by virtue of the proof of
the nineteenth proposition of the  seventh book of Euclid,
namely, in virtue of the general property of proportionals.

But with very simple numbers there is no need of this.  For
instance, one, two, three being  given, everyone can see that the
fourth proportional is six; and this is much clearer, because 
we infer the fourth number from an intuitive grasping of the
ratio, which the first bears to  the second.

XLI.  Knowledge of the first kind is the only source of falsity,
knowledge of the second  and third kinds is necessarily true.

>>>>>Proof--To knowledge of the first kind we have (in the
foregoing note) assigned all  those ideas, which are inadequate
and confused; therefore this kind of knowledge is the  only
source of falsity (II. xxxv.).  Furthermore, we assigned to the
second and third kinds  of knowledge those ideas which are
adequate; therefore these kinds are necessarily true (II. 
xxxiv.).  Q.E.D.

XLII. Knowledge of the second and third kinds, not knowledge of
the first kind, teaches us  to distinguish the true from the
false.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is self-evident.  He, who knows how
to distinguish between  true and false, must have an adequate
idea of true and false.  That is (II. xl., note ii.), he  must
know the true and the false by the second or third kind of
knowledge.

XLIII. He, who has a true idea, simultaneously knows that he has
a true idea, and cannot  doubt of the truth of the thing
perceived.

>>>>>Proof--A true idea in us is an idea which is adequate in
God, in so far as he is  displayed through the nature of the
human mind (II. xi. Cor.).  Let us suppose that there is  in God,
in so far as he is displayed through the human mind, an adequate
idea, A.  The  idea of this idea must also necessarily be in God,
and be referred to him in the same way as  the idea A (by II.
xx., whereof the proof is of universal application).  But the
idea A is  supposed to be referred to God, in so far as he is
displayed through the human mind;  therefore, the idea of the
idea A must be referred to God in the same manner; that is (by 
II. xi. Cor.), the adequate idea of the idea A will be in the
mind, which has the adequate  idea A; therefore he, who has an
adequate idea or knows a thing truly (II. xxxiv.), must at  the
same time have an adequate idea or true knowledge of his
knowledge; that is,  obviously, he must be assured.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--I explained in the note to II. xxi. what is meant by
the idea of an idea; but we  may remark that the foregoing
proposition is in itself sufficiently plain.  No one, who has a 
true idea, is ignorant that a true idea involves the highest
certainty.  For to have a true idea  is only another expression
for knowing a thing perfectly, or as well as possible.  No one, 
indeed, can doubt of this, unless he thinks that an idea is
something lifeless, like a picture  on a panel, and not a mode of
thinking--namely, the very act of understanding.  And who,  I
ask, can know that he understands anything, unless he do first
understand it?  In other  words, who can know that he is sure of
a thing, unless he be first sure of that thing?   Further, what
can there be more clear, and more certain, than a true idea as a
standard  of truth?  Even as light displays both itself and
darkness, so is truth a standard both of  itself and of falsity.

I think I have thus sufficiently answered these
questions--namely, if a true idea is  distinguished from a false
idea, only in so far as it is said to agree with its object, a
true  idea has no more reality or perfection than a false idea
(since the two are only distinguished  by an extrinsic mark);
consequently, neither will a man who has a true idea have any 
advantage over him who has only false ideas.  Further, how comes
it that men have false  ideas?  Lastly, how can anyone be sure,
that he has ideas which agree with their objects?   These
questions, I repeat, I have, in my opinion, sufficiently
answered.  The difference  between a true idea and a false idea
is plain:  from what was said in II. xxxv., the former is 
related to the latter as being is to not-being.  The causes of
falsity I have set forth very  clearly in II. xix. and II. xxxv.
with the note.  From what is there stated, the difference 
between a man who has true ideas, and a man who has only false
ideas, is made apparent.   As for the last question--as to how a
man can be sure that he has ideas that agree with  their objects,
I have just pointed out, with abundant clearness, that his
knowledge arises  from the simple fact, that he has an idea which
corresponds with its object--in other words,  that truth is its
own standard.  We may add that our mind, in so far as it
perceives things  truly, is part of the infinite intellect of God
(II. xi. Cor.); therefore, the clear and distinct  ideas of the
mind are as necessarily true as the ideas of God.

XLIV. It is not in the nature of reason to regard things as
contingent, but as necessary.

>>>>>Proof--It is in the nature of reason to perceive things
truly (II. xli.), namely (I. Ax.  vi.), as they are in
themselves--that is (I. xxix.), not as contingent, but as
necessary.   Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary I--Hence it follows, that it is only through our
imagination that we  consider things, whether in respect to the
future or the past, as contingent.