Produced by David Widger


                           DON QUIXOTE

                            Volume II.

                             Part 27.

                     by Miguel de Cervantes


                    Translated by John Ormsby


CHAPTER XXVI.

WHEREIN IS CONTINUED THE DROLL ADVENTURE OF THE PUPPET-SHOWMAN, TOGETHER
WITH OTHER THINGS IN TRUTH RIGHT GOOD


All were silent, Tyrians and Trojans; I mean all who were watching the
show were hanging on the lips of the interpreter of its wonders, when
drums and trumpets were heard to sound inside it and cannon to go off.
At present we shall make known two other arrangements, which are based
upon the same action, and which, presenting old experiments under a new
form, rejuvenate them by giving them another interest.

The first apparatus (Fig. 1), which presents the appearance of an ordinary
round center table, permits of reproducing at will the "spirit rappings"
and sepulchral voice experiments. The table support contains a Leclanche
pile, of compact form, carefully hidden in the part that connects
the three legs.

The top of the table is in two parts,
the lower of which is hollow, and the upper forms a cover three
or four millimeters in thickness.

In the center of the hollow part is placed a vertical electro-magnet,
one of the wires of which communicates with one of the poles of the
pile, and the other with a flat metallic circle glued to the cover of the
table. Beneath this circle, and at a slight distance from it, there
is a toothed circle, F, connected with the other pole of the pile. When
the table is pressed lightly upon, the cover bends and the flat circle
touches the toothed one, closes the circuit of the pile upon the electro-magnet,
which latter attracts its armature and produces a sharp blow. On raising
the hand, the cover takes its initial position, breaks the circuit
anew, and produces another sharp blow.

Upon running the hand lightly over the table, the cover is caused
to bend successively over a certain portion of its circumference,
contacts and breakages of the circuit are produced upon a certain
number of the teeth, and the sharp blow is replaced by a quick
succession of sounds, or a tremulous one, according to the skill
of the medium whose business it is to interrogate the spirits.

As the table contains within it all the mechanism that actuates it, it may
be moved about without allowing the artifice to be suspected.

[Illustration: FIG. 2.--ELECTRIC INSECTS.]
The table may also be operated at a distance by employing conductors passing
through the legs and under the carpet and communicating with a pile whose
circuit is closed at an opportune moment by a confederate located in a
neighboring apartment.

Finally, on substituting a small telephone receiver for the electro-magnet,
and a microtelephone system for the ordinary pile, we shall convert the
rapping spirits into talking ones.
Observe, too, a new incident which now occurs,
such as, perhaps, never was seen. Do you not see that Moor, who silently
and stealthily, with his finger on his lip, approaches Melisendra from
behind? Observe now how he prints a kiss upon her lips, and what a hurry
she is in to spit, and wipe them with the white sleeve of her smock, and
how she bewails herself, and tears her fair hair as though it were to
blame for the wrong. Observe, too, that the stately Moor who is in that
corridor is King Marsilio of Sansuena, who, having seen the Moor's
insolence, at once orders him (though his kinsman and a great favourite
of his) to be seized and given two hundred lashes, while carried through
the streets of the city according to custom, with criers going before him
and officers of justice behind; and here you see them come out to execute
the sentence, although the offence has been scarcely committed; for among
the Moors there are no indictments nor remands as with us."

Here Don Quixote called out, "Child, child, go straight on with your
story, and don't run into curves and slants, for to establish a fact
clearly there is need of a great deal of proof and confirmation;" and
said Master Pedro from within, "Boy, stick to your text and do as the
gentleman bids you; it's the best plan; keep to your plain song, and
don't attempt harmonies, for they are apt to break down from being over
fine."

"I will," said the boy, and he went on to say, "This figure that you see
here on horseback, covered with a Gascon cloak, is Don Gaiferos himself,
whom his wife, now avenged of the insult of the amorous Moor, and taking
her stand on the balcony of the tower with a calmer and more tranquil
countenance, has perceived without recognising him; and she addresses her
husband, supposing him to be some traveller, and holds with him all that
conversation and colloquy in the ballad that runs--

If you, sir knight, to France are bound,
Oh! for Gaiferos ask--

which I do not repeat here because prolixity begets disgust; suffice it
to observe how Don Gaiferos discovers himself, and that by her joyful
gestures Melisendra shows us she has recognised him; and what is more, we
now see she lowers herself from the balcony to place herself on the
haunches of her good husband's horse. But ah! unhappy lady, the edge of
her petticoat has caught on one of the bars of the balcony and she is
left hanging in the air, unable to reach the ground. But you see how
compassionate heaven sends aid in our sorest need; Don Gaiferos advances,
and without minding whether the rich petticoat is torn or not, he seizes
her and by force brings her to the ground, and then with one jerk places
her on the haunches of his horse, astraddle like a man, and bids her hold
on tight and clasp her arms round his neck, crossing them on his breast
so as not to fall, for the lady Melisendra was not used to that style of
riding. You see, too, how the neighing of the horse shows his
satisfaction with the gallant and beautiful burden he bears in his lord
and lady. You see how they wheel round and quit the city, and in joy and
gladness take the road to Paris. Go in peace, O peerless pair of true
lovers! May you reach your longed-for fatherland in safety, and may
fortune interpose no impediment to your prosperous journey; may the eyes
of your friends and kinsmen behold you enjoying in peace and tranquillity
the remaining days of your life--and that they may be as many as those of
Nestor!"

Here Master Pedro called out again and said, "Simplicity, boy! None of
your high flights; all affectation is bad."

The interpreter made no answer, but went on to say, "There was no want of
idle eyes, that see everything, to see Melisendra come down and mount,
and word was brought to King Marsilio, who at once gave orders to sound
the alarm; and see what a stir there is, and how the city is drowned with
the sound of the bells pealing in the towers of all the mosques."

"Nay, nay," said Don Quixote at this; "on that point of the bells Master
Pedro is very inaccurate, for bells are not in use among the Moors; only
kettledrums, and a kind of small trumpet somewhat like our clarion; to
ring bells this way in Sansuena is unquestionably a great absurdity."

On hearing this, Master Pedro stopped ringing, and said, "Don't look into
trifles, Senor Don Quixote, or want to have things up to a pitch of
perfection that is out of reach. Are there not almost every day a
thousand comedies represented all round us full of thousands of
inaccuracies and absurdities, and, for all that, they have a successful
run, and are listened to not only with applause, but with admiration and
all the rest of it? Go on, boy, and don't mind; for so long as I fill my
pouch, no matter if I show as many inaccuracies as there are motes in a
sunbeam."

"True enough," said Don Quixote; and the boy went on: "See what a
numerous and glittering crowd of horsemen issues from the city in pursuit
of the two faithful lovers, what a blowing of trumpets there is, what
sounding of horns, what beating of drums and tabors; I fear me they will
overtake them and bring them back tied to the tail of their own horse,
which would be a dreadful sight."

Don Quixote, however, seeing such a swarm of Moors and hearing such a
din, thought it would be right to aid the fugitives, and standing up he
exclaimed in a loud voice, "Never, while I live, will I permit foul play
to be practised in my presence on such a famous knight and fearless lover
as Don Gaiferos. The engine gives off fully 15-horse power on the steepest
gradient, the total traction weight being 8½ to 9 tons; it is worked with
an average steam pressure of 5 atmospheres, and has cylinders of 180 mm.
diameter and 220 mm. stroke, cog wheel-gear of 2 to 3, and driving wheels
of 700 mm. diameter. The quantity of water evaporated during the
service time of 10½ hours was found to be about 1,600 kilogs., consequently
about 800 kilogs. steam was absorbed by one quantity of soda, the
weight of which was ascertained at about 1,100 kilogs. The averaging
heating surface is 9.8 square meters; the difference of temperature between
soda lye and water was toward the end only 3 deg. Cent.; 234 kilogs.
pitcoal were used for boiling down the lye for the 10½ hours' service,
which corresponds to a 6.6 fold evaporation.

(Signed) M.F. GUTERMUTH,
Assistant for Engineering at the Technical High School.

HASELMANN,
Manager of the Aix la Chapelle-Burtscheid Tramway.

Here are some unquestionable results. For nearly a year the first railway
engine, and for six months the first tramway engine of this new
construction, have been introduced into regular public service,
and been open to public inspection as well as to the criticism of
the scientific world.

They are worked with greater ease and simplicity than ordinary locomotive
engines; the economy of their working appears, allowing for shortcomings
unavoidably attached to small establishments, to be at least equally
great: they do not emit either steam or smoke, and their action is as
noiseless as that of stationary engines.

In view of these facts it might be expected that railway managers, who
are continually told that the smoke of their engines is a serious
annoyance to the public, would be eager to make themselves acquainted
with them; it might, in particular, be expected that the managers
of the underground and suburban railways of this metropolis would
lose no time in making experiments on their own lines--if only by
converting some of their old engines into those of the fireless
system--and assist a little in the development of an invention, in
the success of which they have a tangible interest which is much
greater than that of any railway on the Continent, but there is no
sign yet of their having done anything.

--_E., in The Engineer_.

* * * * * 

SIMPLE METHODS OF CALCULATING STRESSES IN GIRDERS.

By CHARLES LEAN, M. Inst.
C.E.

_Bowstring Girders._--Having had occasion to get out the stresses in girders
of the bowstring form, the author was not satisfied with the common
formulæ for the diagonal braces, which, owing to the difficulty of
apportioning the stresses amongst five members meeting in one point,
were to a large extent based on an assumption as to the course taken
by the stresses. As far as he could ascertain it, the ordinary method
was to assume that one set of diagonals, or those inclined, say, to the
right-hand, acted at one time, and those inclined in the opposite direction
at another time, and, in making the calculations, the apportionment
of the stresses was effected by omitting one set.

Calculations made in this way give results which would justify the common
method adopted in the construction of bowstring girders, viz., of
bracing the verticals and leaving the diagonal unbraced; but an inspection
of many existing examples of these bridges during the passing of the
live load showed that there was something defective in them.

The long unbraced ties vibrated considerably, and evidently got slack
during a part of the time that the live load was passing over the bridge.
In order to get some definite formulæ for these girders free from
any assumed conditions as to the course taken by the stresses, or
their apportionment amongst the several members meeting at each
joint, the author adopted the following method, which, he believes,
has not hitherto been used by engineers:
Let Fig. 1 represent a bowstring girder, the stresses in which it
is desired to ascertain under the loads shown on it by the circles,
the figures in the small circles representing the dead load per
bay, and that in the large circle the total of live and dead load
per bay of the main girders.

A girder, Fig. 1A, with parallel flanges, verticals, and diagonals, and
depth equal to the length of one bay, was drawn with the same
loading as the bowstring.

The stresses in the flanges were taken out, as shown in the figure, keeping
separate those caused by diagonals inclined to the left from those
caused by diagonals inclined to the right.
If the result has been the opposite
of what I intended, it is no fault of mine, but of those wicked beings
that persecute me; but, for all that, I am willing to condemn myself in
costs for this error of mine, though it did not proceed from malice; let
Master Pedro see what he wants for the spoiled figures, for I agree to
pay it at once in good and current money of Castile."

Master Pedro made him a bow, saying, "I expected no less of the rare
Christianity of the valiant Don Quixote of La Mancha, true helper and
protector of all destitute and needy vagabonds; master landlord here and
the great Sancho Panza shall be the arbitrators and appraisers between
your worship and me of what these dilapidated figures are worth or may be
worth."

The landlord and Sancho consented, and then Master Pedro picked up from
the ground King Marsilio of Saragossa with his head off, and said, "Here
you see how impossible it is to restore this king to his former state, so
I think, saving your better judgments, that for his death, decease, and
demise, four reals and a half may be given me."

"Proceed," said Don Quixote.

"Well then, for this cleavage from top to bottom," continued Master
Pedro, taking up the split Emperor Charlemagne, "it would not be much if
I were to ask five reals and a quarter."

"It's not little," said Sancho.

"Nor is it much," said the landlord; "make it even, and say five reals."

"Let him have the whole five and a quarter," said Don Quixote; "for the
sum total of this notable disaster does not stand on a quarter more or
less; and make an end of it quickly, Master Pedro, for it's getting on to
supper-time, and I have some hints of hunger."

"For this figure," said Master Pedro, "that is without a nose, and wants
an eye, and is the fair Melisendra, I ask, and I am reasonable in my
charge, two reals and twelve maravedis."

"The very devil must be in it," said Don Quixote, "if Melisendra and her
husband are not by this time at least on the French border, for the horse
they rode on seemed to me to fly rather than gallop; so you needn't try
to sell me the cat for the hare, showing me here a noseless Melisendra
when she is now, may be, enjoying herself at her ease with her husband in
France. God help every one to his own, Master Pedro, and let us all
proceed fairly and honestly; and now go on."

Master Pedro, perceiving that Don Quixote was beginning to wander, and
return to his original fancy, was not disposed to let him escape, so he
said to him, "This cannot be Melisendra, but must be one of the damsels
that waited on her; so if I'm given sixty maravedis for her, I'll be
content and sufficiently paid."

And so he went on, putting values on ever so many more smashed figures,
which, after the two arbitrators had adjusted them to the satisfaction of
both parties, came to forty reals and three-quarters; and over and above
this sum, which Sancho at once disbursed, Master Pedro asked for two
reals for his trouble in catching the ape.

BY WINSTON CHURCHHILL
On that day when I read of Mr. Davis's sudden death there came back to me
a vivid memory of another day, some eighteen years ago, when I first met
him, shortly after the publication of my first novel.

I was paying an over-Sunday visit to Marion, that quaint waterside resort
where Mr.
Davis lived for many years, and with which his name is associated. On the
Monday morning, as the stage started out for the station, a young
man came running after it, caught it, and sat down in the only empty
place--beside me.

He was Richard Harding Davis. I recognized him, nor shall I forget that
peculiar thrill I experienced at finding myself in actual, physical
contact with an author. And that this author should be none other than
the creator of Gallegher, prepossessing, vigorous, rather than a dry and
elderly recluse, made my excitement the keener.
It happened also, after entering the smoking-car, that the remaining
vacant seat was at my side, and here Mr. Davis established himself.
He looked at me, he asked if my name was Winston Churchill, he said he had
read my book. How he guessed my identity I did not discover. But the
recollection of our talk, the strong impression I then received of
Mr.
Davis's vitality and personality, the liking I conceived for him--these
have neither changed nor faded with the years, and I recall with gratitude
to-day the kindliness, the sense of fellowship always so strong in him
that impelled him to speak as he did. A month before he died, when I met
him on the train going to Mt. Kisco, he had not changed.

His enthusiasms, his vigor, his fine passions, his fondness for his
friends, these, nor the joy he found in the pursuit of his profession,
had not faded.

And there come to me now, as I think of him filled with life, flashes from
his writings that have moved me, and move me indescribably still.
"Le Style," as Rolland remarks, "c'est l'ame."

It was so in Mr. Davis's case. He had the rare faculty of stirring by a
phrase the imaginations of men, of including in a phrase a picture, an
event--a cataclysm. Such a phrase was that in which he described the entry
of German hosts into Brussels. He was not a man, when enlisted in a cause,
to count the cost to himself. Many causes will miss him, and many
friends, and many admirers, yet his personality remains with us forever,
in his work.

BY LEONARD WOOD
The death of Richard Harding Davis was a real loss to the movement
for preparedness. Mr. Davis had an extensive experience as a military
observer, and thoroughly appreciated the need of a general training
system like that of Australia or Switzerland and of thorough organization
of our industrial resources in order to establish a condition of
reasonable preparedness in this country. A few days before his death he
came to Governor's Island for the purpose of ascertaining in what line
of work he could be most useful in building up sound public opinion in
favor of such preparedness as would give us a real peace-insurance. His
mind was bent on devoting his energies and abilities to the work of public
education on this vitally important subject, and few men were
better qualified to do so, for he had served as a military observer in
many campaigns.

Throughout the Cuban campaign he was attached to the headquarters of my
regiment in Cuba as a military observer. He was with the advanced party
at the opening of the fight at Las Guasimas, and was distinguished
throughout the fight by coolness and good conduct. He also participated
in the battle of San Juan and the siege of Santiago, and as an observer
was always where duty called him. He was a delightful companion, cheerful,
resourceful, and thoughtful of the interests and wishes of others. His
reports of the campaign were valuable and among the best and most
accurate.

The Plattsburg movement took very strong hold of him. He saw in this a
great instrument for building up a sound knowledge concerning our
military history and policy, also a very practical way of training men
for the duties of junior officers. He realized fully that we should
need in case of war tens of thousands of officers with our newly raised
troops, and that it would be utterly impossible to prepare them in the
hurry and confusion of the onrush of modern war. His heart was filled
with a desire to serve his country to the best of his ability. His recent
experience in Europe pointed out to him the absolute madness of longer
disregarding the need of doing those things which reasonable preparedness
dictates, the things which cannot be accomplished after trouble is upon
us. He had in mind at the time of his death a series of articles
to be written especially to build up interest in universal military
training through conveying to our people an understanding of what
organization as it exists to-day means, and how vitally important
it is for our people to do in time of peace those things which
modern war does not permit done once it is under way.In this way he acquired a prodigious name and
all ran after him; on other occasions, being very crafty, he would answer
in such a way that the answers suited the questions; and as no one
cross-questioned him or pressed him to tell how his ape divined, he made
fools of them all and filled his pouch. The instant he entered the inn he
knew Don Quixote and Sancho, and with that knowledge it was easy for him
to astonish them and all who were there; but it would have cost him dear
had Don Quixote brought down his hand a little lower when he cut off King
Marsilio's head and destroyed all his horsemen, as related in the
preceeding chapter.

So much for Master Pedro and his ape; and now to return to Don Quixote of
La Mancha. After he had left the inn he determined to visit, first of
all, the banks of the Ebro and that neighbourhood, before entering the
city of Saragossa, for the ample time there was still to spare before the
jousts left him enough for all. With this object in view he followed the
road and travelled along it for two days, without meeting any adventure
worth committing to writing until on the third day, as he was ascending a
hill, he heard a great noise of drums, trumpets, and musket-shots. At
first he imagined some regiment of soldiers was passing that way, and to
see them he spurred Rocinante and mounted the hill. On reaching the top
he saw at the foot of it over two hundred men, as it seemed to him, armed
with weapons of various sorts, lances, crossbows, partisans, halberds,
and pikes, and a few muskets and a great many bucklers. He descended the
slope and approached the band near enough to see distinctly the flags,
make out the colours and distinguish the devices they bore, especially
one on a standard or ensign of white satin, on which there was painted in
a very life-like style an ass like a little sard, with its head up, its
mouth open and its tongue out, as if it were in the act and attitude of
braying; and round it were inscribed in large characters these two lines--

They did not bray in vain,
Our alcaldes twain.

From this device Don Quixote concluded that these people must be from the
braying town, and he said so to Sancho, explaining to him what was
written on the standard. At the same time he observed that the man who
had told them about the matter was wrong in saying that the two who
brayed were regidors, for according to the lines of the standard they
were alcaldes. To which Sancho replied, "Senor, there's nothing to stick
at in that, for maybe the regidors who brayed then came to be alcaldes of
their town afterwards, and so they may go by both titles; moreover, it
has nothing to do with the truth of the story whether the brayers were
alcaldes or regidors, provided at any rate they did bray; for an alcalde
is just as likely to bray as a regidor." They perceived, in short,
clearly that the town which had been twitted had turned out to do battle
with some other that had jeered it more than was fair or neighbourly.

Don Quixote proceeded to join them, not a little to Sancho's uneasiness,
for he never relished mixing himself up in expeditions of that sort. The
members of the troop received him into the midst of them, taking him to
be some one who was on their side. Don Quixote, putting up his visor,
advanced with an easy bearing and demeanour to the standard with the ass,
and all the chief men of the army gathered round him to look at him,
staring at him with the usual amazement that everybody felt on seeing him
for the first time. Don Quixote, seeing them examining him so
attentively, and that none of them spoke to him or put any question to
him, determined to take advantage of their silence; so, breaking his own,
he lifted up his voice and said, "Worthy sirs, I entreat you as earnestly
as I can not to interrupt an argument I wish to address to you, until you
find it displeases or wearies you; and if that come to pass, on the
slightest hint you give me I will put a seal upon my lips and a gag upon
my tongue."

They all bade him say what he liked, for they would listen to him
willingly.

With this permission Don Quixote went on to say, "I, sirs, am a
knight-errant whose calling is that of arms, and whose profession is to
protect those who require protection, and give help to such as stand in
need of it. Some days ago I became acquainted with your misfortune and
the cause which impels you to take up arms again and again to revenge
yourselves upon your enemies; and having many times thought over your
business in my mind, I find that, according to the laws of combat, you
are mistaken in holding yourselves insulted; for a private individual
cannot insult an entire community; unless it be by defying it
collectively as a traitor, because he cannot tell who in particular is
guilty of the treason for which he defies it. Of this we have an example
in Don Diego Ordonez de Lara, who defied the whole town of Zamora,
because he did not know that Vellido Dolfos alone had committed the
treachery of slaying his king; and therefore he defied them all, and the
vengeance and the reply concerned all; though, to be sure, Senor Don
Diego went rather too far, indeed very much beyond the limits of a
defiance; for he had no occasion to defy the dead, or the waters, or the
fishes, or those yet unborn, and all the rest of it as set forth; but let
that pass, for when anger breaks out there's no father, governor, or
bridle to check the tongue. The case being, then, that no one person can
insult a kingdom, province, city, state, or entire community, it is clear
there is no reason for going out to avenge the defiance of such an
insult, inasmuch as it is not one. A fine thing it would be if the people
of the clock town were to be at loggerheads every moment with everyone
who called them by that name,--or the Cazoleros, Berengeneros,
Ballenatos, Jaboneros, or the bearers of all the other names and titles
that are always in the mouth of the boys and common people! It would be a
nice business indeed if all these illustrious cities were to take huff
and revenge themselves and go about perpetually making trombones of their
swords in every petty quarrel! No, no; God forbid! There are four things
for which sensible men and well-ordered States ought to take up arms,
draw their swords, and risk their persons, lives, and properties. The
first is to defend the Catholic faith; the second, to defend one's life,
which is in accordance with natural and divine law; the third, in defence
of one's honour, family, and property; the fourth, in the service of
one's king in a just war; and if to these we choose to add a fifth (which
may be included in the second), in defence of one's country. As a
practical illustration of the operation of the motor a large platform
car, containing a number of invited guests and representatives of the
press, was propelled on a track the length of the shop. (This was in
1883.) The engine, if such it may be called, was of the size which is
intended to be used on elevated railways. As constructed, the motor
combines with a stationary shaft a series of drums, carrying springs,
and arranged so that they can be brought into use singly or in pairs. Each
spring or section has sufficient capacity to run the car, and thus as
one spring is used another is applied. There is a series of clutches by
which the drums to which the springs are attached are connected, with a
master wheel, which transmits through a train of wheels the power of the
springs to the axles, of the truck wheels. The motor will be so
constructed that it may be placed on a truck of the width of the cars at
present in use, and will be nine feet long, with four traction
wheels.

It is proposed do away with the two front wheels and platform, so that the
front of the car may rest on a spring to the truck. There will be an
engine at each end of the road, which, it is calculated, will wind
up the springs in at least two minutes' time.

While the mere construction of such a working motor involved nothing new,
the real problem involved consisted of the rolling of a piece of steel
300 feet long, 6 inches wide, and a quarter of an inch thick. Another
element was the coiling of this strip of steel preliminary to tempering.

To temper it straight was to expose the grain to unnecessary strain when
wound in a close coil. To overcome this was the most difficult part of
the work. At the exhibition the inventor gave an illustration of the
method which has been employed by the company. The strip of steel is
slowly passed through a retort heated by the admixture of gas and air at
the point of ignition in proportions to produce intense heat. When the
strip has been brought to almost a white heat, it is passed between two
rollers of the coiling machine. It is then subjected to a powerful blast
of compressed air and sprays of water, so that six inches from the machine
the steel is cold enough for the hand to be placed on it. After this
operation the spring is complete and ready to be placed on the shaft.
The use of the springs is said to be beyond estimate. They may be employed
to operate passenger elevators, the springs being wound by a hand crank.
It is understood that the French Government has applied for them for running
small yachts for harbor service. Among the advantages claimed for this
motor are its cheapness in first cost and in operating expenses.

It is estimated that an engine of twenty-five horse power will be required
at the station to wind the springs. If there be one at each end of the
line, the cost for fuel, engineer, and interest will not exceed $100 per
week. This will answer for fifty or any additional number of cars. The
company claims that by using twelve springs, each 150 feet in length, an
ordinary street car can be driven about twenty miles.--_Phil. Inquirer_.

* * * * *

CASTING CHILLED CAR WHEELS.

We show herewith the method employed by the Baltimore Car Wheel Company
in casting chilled wheels to prevent tread defects. The ordinary mode
of pouring from the ladle into the hub part of the mould, and then letting
the metal overpour down the brackets to the chill, produces cold shot,
seams, etc. In the arrangement here shown the hub core, A, has a concave
top, B, and the core seat, C, is convex, its center part being
lower than the perimeter of the top of the core. Figs. 3, 4, show the
core, A, in the side elevation and in plain. Fig. 2 is a core point
forming a space to connect the receiving chamber, E, above, with the
mould by passageways, D D, formed in the side of the top of the
core.

The combined area of these passageways being less than that of the
conduit, F, from the receiving chamber, the metal is skimmed of
impurities, and the latter are retained in the receiving chamber, E.

The entering metal flows first to the lower hub part at H H, thence by
the sprue-ways, G G, to the lower rim part at J J, being again
skimmed at the mouth of the sprue-ways.

Thus the rim fills as rapidly as the hub, and the metal is of a uniform and
high temperature when it reaches the chill.
[Illustration: CASTING OF CAR WHEELS.]This proved to be the case with
Don Quixote, who, giving way before the fury of the townsfolk and the
hostile intentions of the angry troop, took to flight and, without a
thought of Sancho or the danger in which he was leaving him, retreated to
such a distance as he thought made him safe. Sancho, lying across his
ass, followed him, as has been said, and at length came up, having by
this time recovered his senses, and on joining him let himself drop off
Dapple at Rocinante's feet, sore, bruised, and belaboured. Don Quixote
dismounted to examine his wounds, but finding him whole from head to
foot, he said to him, angrily enough, "In an evil hour didst thou take to
braying, Sancho! Where hast thou learned that it is well done to mention
the rope in the house of the man that has been hanged? To the music of
brays what harmonies couldst thou expect to get but cudgels? Give thanks
to God, Sancho, that they signed the cross on thee just now with a stick,
and did not mark thee per signum crucis with a cutlass."

In the same way the horizontal and vertical components of the stresses
in each of the other bays of the flanges of the bowstring were found; and
the stresses in the verticals and diagonals were found by addition,
subtraction, and reduction. These calculations are shown on the table,
Fig 1B.

The result of this is a complete set of stresses in all the members of
the bowstring girder--see Fig. 2--which produce a state of equilibrium
at each point. The fact that this state of equilibrium is produced proves
conclusively that the rule above described and thus applied, although
possibly it may be considered empirical, results in the correct solution
of the question, and that the stresses shown are actually those which
the girder would have to sustain under the given position of the live
load.Sancho was by this time mounted with the help of Don Quixote, who then
himself mounted Rocinante, and at a leisurely pace they proceeded to take
shelter in a grove which was in sight about a quarter of a league off.
Every now and then Sancho gave vent to deep sighs and dismal groans, and
on Don Quixote asking him what caused such acute suffering, he replied
that, from the end of his back-bone up to the nape of his neck, he was so
sore that it nearly drove him out of his senses.

"The cause of that soreness," said Don Quixote, "will be, no doubt, that
the staff wherewith they smote thee being a very long one, it caught thee
all down the back, where all the parts that are sore are situated, and
had it reached any further thou wouldst be sorer still."

"By God," said Sancho, "your worship has relieved me of a great doubt,
and cleared up the point for me in elegant style! Body o' me! is the
cause of my soreness such a mystery that there's any need to tell me I am
sore everywhere the staff hit me? That every one of the diagonals is
subjected to compression at some point or other in the passage of the
live load over the bridge, c. That the maximum horizontal component of
the stresses in each of the diagonals is a constant quantity, not only
for tension and compression, but for all the diagonals. The diagrams
also show the following facts, which are, however, recognized in the
common formulæ: d. The maximum stress in any vertical is equal to the
sum of the amounts of the live and dead loads per bay of the girder. e.
The maximum horizontal component of the stresses in any bay of the top
flange is the same for each bay, and is equal to the maximum stress in
the bottom flange. Having taken out the stresses in several forms of
bowstring girders, differing from each other in the proportion of
depth to span, the number of bays in the girder, and the amounts and
ratios of the live and dead loads, similar results were invariably
found, and a consideration of the various sets of calculations resulted
in the following empirical rule for the stresses in the diagonals: "The
horizontal component of the greatest stress in any diagonal, which will
be both compressive and tensile, and is the same for every diagonal brace
in the girder, is equal to the amount of the live load per bay multiplied
by the span of the girder, and divided by sixteen times the depth of
girder at center." The following formulæ will give all the stresses in
the bowstring girder, without the necessity of any diagrams, or basing
any calculations on the assumed action of any of the members of
the girders:

Let S = span of girder.

D = depth at center.
B = length of one bay.
N = number of bays.
L = length of any bay of top flange.
l = length of any diagonal.
w = dead load per bay of girder.
w¹= live load per bay of girder.
W = total load per bay of girder = w + w¹.

Then: S/B = N.

Bottom Flange. WNS/8D = maximum stress throughout. (1)
Top Flange.--In any bay the maximum stress =
+ WNS/8D × L/B = + WLN²/8D (2)
_Verticals._--The maximum stress = -W. (3)
_Diagonals._--The maximum stress is
± w¹lS/16DB = ± w¹lN/16D (4)
These results show that the method generally adopted in the construction
of bowstring girders is erroneous; and one consequence of the method is
the observed looseness and rattling of the long embraced ties referred
to at the commencement of the article during the passage of the live
load; the fact being that they have at such times to sustain a compressive
stress, which slightly buckles them, and sets them vibrating when they
recover their original position.
Another necessity of the common method of construction is the use
of an unnecessary quantity of metal in the diagonals; for, by leaving
them unbraced, the set of diagonals which does act is subjected to
exactly twice the stress which would be caused in it if the bridge
was properly constructed. A comparison of the results of a set of
calculations on the common plan with those given in this paper,
shows at once that this is the case; for the ordinary system of
calculation the stresses, in addition to showing compression in the
verticals, gives exactly twice the amount of tension in the diagonals
which they should have."I own, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that all thou sayest is true; how
much, thinkest thou, ought I to give thee over and above what Tom
Carrasco gave thee?"

"I think," said Sancho, "that if your worship was to add on two reals a
month I'd consider myself well paid; that is, as far as the wages of my
labour go; but to make up to me for your worship's pledge and promise to
me to give me the government of an island, it would be fair to add six
reals more, making thirty in all."

"Very good," said Don Quixote; "it is twenty-five days since we left our
village, so reckon up, Sancho, according to the wages you have made out
for yourself, and see how much I owe you in proportion, and pay yourself,
as I said before, out of your own hand."

"O body o' me!" said Sancho, "but your worship is very much out in that
reckoning; for when it comes to the promise of the island we must count
from the day your worship promised it to me to this present hour we are
at now."

"Well, how long is it, Sancho, since I promised it to you?" said Don
Quixote.

"If I remember rightly," said Sancho, "it must be over twenty years,
three days more or less."

Don Quixote gave himself a great slap on the forehead and began to laugh
heartily, and said he, "Why, I have not been wandering, either in the
Sierra Morena or in the whole course of our sallies, but barely two
months, and thou sayest, Sancho, that it is twenty years since I promised
thee the island. I believe now thou wouldst have all the money thou hast
of mine go in thy wages. If so, and if that be thy pleasure, I give it to
thee now, once and for all, and much good may it do thee, for so long as
I see myself rid of such a good-for-nothing squire I'll be glad to be
left a pauper without a rap. But tell me, thou perverter of the squirely
rules of knight-errantry, where hast thou ever seen or read that any
knight-errant's squire made terms with his lord, 'you must give me so
much a month for serving you'? Shepherd, of the United Press, "Jimmy
Hare," the veteran war photographer, and I had established ourselves
several weeks before.

The hotel was jammed, and the city, with a normal capacity of about one
hundred and seventy-five thousand, was struggling to accommodate at least
a hundred thousand more. There was not a room to be had in any of the
better hotels, and for several days we lodged Davis in our room,
a vast chamber which formerly had been the main dining-room of the
establishment, and which now was converted into a bedroom.O man more beast than human being! Now, when I was about to
raise thee to such a position, that, in spite of thy wife, they would
call thee 'my lord,' thou art leaving me? Thou art going now when I had a
firm and fixed intention of making thee lord of the best island in the
world? Well, as thou thyself hast said before now, honey is not for the
mouth of the ass. [Illustration: FIG. 1.--RAPPING AND TALKING TABLE. ]

Who has not seen, of old, Robert Houdin's heavy chest and Robert
Houdin's magic drum? These two curious experiments are, as well
known, founded upon the properties of electro-magnets.Sancho regarded Don Quixote earnestly while he was giving him this
rating, and was so touched by remorse that the tears came to his eyes,
and in a piteous and broken voice he said to him, "Master mine, I confess
that, to be a complete ass, all I want is a tail; if your worship will
only fix one on to me, I'll look on it as rightly placed, and I'll serve
you as an ass all the remaining days of my life. There was no sign of serious
trouble, abroad. That night ominous telegrams came, and at ten o'clock
on the following morning we were on a train headed for the States.

Palmer and Davis caught the Lusitania, sailing August 4 from New York, and
I followed on the Saint Paul, leaving three days later. On the 17th
of August I reached Brussels, and it seemed the most natural thing in
the world to find Davis already there. He was at the Palace Hotel, where
a number of American and English correspondents were quartered.
Sancho said he would do so, and keep up his heart as best he could. Figs.
2 to 10 inclusive show stresses arrived at in this manner for every position
of the live load. An inspection of these diagrams shows: a. That there
is no single instance of compression in a vertical member of the bowstring
girder, b.
Don Quixote passed it in his never-failing meditations; but, for
all that, they had some winks of sleep, and with the appearance of
daylight they pursued their journey in quest of the banks of the famous
Ebro, where that befell them which will be told in the following chapter.