It appeared that, unable to bear the reproach that Easton's presence
seemed to imply, or to endure the burden of her secret any longer, and
always haunted by the thought of the lake in the park, Ruth had formed
the dreadful resolution of taking her own life and the child's.  When
she arrived at the park gates they were closed and locked for the
night but she remembered that there was another means of entering -
the place at the far end of the valley where the park was not fenced
in, so she had gone there - nearly three miles - only to find that
railings had recently been erected and therefore it was no longer
possible to get into the park by that way.  And then, when she found
it impossible to put her resolve into practice, she had realized for
the first time the folly and wickedness of the act she had meant to
commit.  But although she had abandoned her first intention, she said
she could never go home again; she would take a room somewhere and get
some work to do, or perhaps she might be able to get a situation where
they would allow her to have the child with her, or failing that she
would work and pay someone to look after it; but she could never go
home any more.  If she only had somewhere to stay for a few days until
she could get something to do, she was sure she would be able to earn
her living, but she could not go back home; she felt that she would
rather walk about the streets all night than go there again.

It was arranged that Ruth should have the small apartment which had
been Frankie's playroom, the necessary furniture being obtained from a
second-hand shop close by.  Easton did not learn the real reason of
her flight until three days afterwards.  At first he attributed it to
a recurrence of the mental disorder that she had suffered from after
the birth of the child, and he had been glad to leave her at Owen's
place in Nora's care, but on the evening of the third day when he
returned home from work, he found a letter in Ruth's handwriting which
told him all there was to tell.

When he recovered from the stupefaction into which he was thrown by
the perusal of this letter, his first thought was to seek out Slyme,
but he found upon inquiring that the latter had left the town the
previous morning.  Slyme's landlady said he had told her that he had
been offered several months' work in London, which he had accepted.
The truth was that Slyme had heard of Ruth's flight - nearly everyone
knew about it as a result of the inquiries that had been made for her -
and, guessing the cause, he had prudently cleared out.

Easton made no attempt to see Ruth, but he went to Owen's and took
Freddie away, saying he would pay Mrs Linden to look after the child
whilst he was at work.  His manner was that of a deeply injured man -
the possibility that he was in any way to blame for what had happened
did not seem to occur to his mind at all.

As for Ruth she made no resistance to his taking the child away from
her, although she cried about it in secret.  She got some work a few
days afterwards - helping the servants at one of the large boarding-
houses on the Grand Parade.

Nora looked after the baby for her while she was at work, an
arrangement that pleased Frankie vastly; he said it was almost as good
as having a baby of their very own.

For the first few weeks after Ruth went away Easton tried to persuade
himself that he did not very much regret what had happened.  Mrs
Linden looked after Freddie, and Easton tried to believe that he would
really be better off now that he had only himself and the child to
provide for.

At first, whenever he happened to meet Owen, they used to speak of
Ruth, or to be more correct, Easton used to speak of her; but one day
when the two men were working together Owen had expressed himself
rather offensively.  He seemed to think that Easton was more to blame
than she was; and afterwards they avoided the subject, although Easton
found it difficult to avoid the thoughts the other man's words
suggested.

Now and then he heard of Ruth and learnt that she was still working at
the same place; and once he met her suddenly and unexpectedly in the
street.  They passed each other hurriedly and he did not see the
scarlet flush that for an instant dyed her face, nor the deathly
pallor that succeeded it.

He never went to Owen's place or sent any communication to Ruth, nor
did she ever send him any; but although Easton did not know it she
frequently saw Freddie, for when Elsie Linden took the child out she
often called to see Mrs Owen.

As time went on and the resentment he had felt towards her lost its
first bitterness, Easton began to think there was perhaps some little
justification for what Owen had said, and gradually there grew within
him an immense desire for reconciliation - to start afresh and to
forget all that had happened; but the more he thought of this the more
hopeless and impossible of realization it seemed.

Although perhaps he was not conscious of it, this desire arose solely
from selfish motives.  The money he earned seemed to melt away almost
as soon as he received it; to his surprise he found that he was not
nearly so well off in regard to personal comfort as he had been
formerly, and the house seemed to grow more dreary and desolate as the
wintry days dragged slowly by.  Sometimes - when he had the money - he
sought forgetfulness in the society of Crass and the other frequenters
of the Cricketers, but somehow or other he could not take the same
pleasure in the conversation of these people as formerly, when he had
found it - as he now sometimes wondered to remember - so entertaining
as to almost make him forget Ruth's existence.

One evening about three weeks before Christmas, as he and Owen were
walking homewards together from work, Easton reverted for the first
time to their former conversation.  He spoke with a superior air: his
manner and tone indicating that he thought he was behaving with great
generosity.  He would be willing to forgive her and have her back, he
said, if she would come: but he would never be able to tolerate the
child.  Of course it might be sent to an orphanage or some similar
institution, but he was afraid Ruth would never consent to that, and
he knew that her stepmother would not take it.

`If you can persuade her to return to you, we'll take the child,' said
Owen.

`Do you think your wife would be willing?'

`She has already suggested doing so.'

`To Ruth?'

`No: to me.  We thought it a possible way for you, and my wife would
like to have the child.'

`But would you be able to afford it?' said Easton.

`We should manage all right.'

`Of course,' said Easton, `if Slyme comes back he might agree to pay
something for its keep.'

Owen flushed.

`I wouldn't take his money.'

After a long pause Easton continued: `Would you mind asking Mrs Owen
to suggest it to Ruth?'

`If you like I'll get her to suggest it - as a message from you.'

`What I meant,' said Easton hesitatingly, `was that your wife might
just suggest it - casual like - and advise her that it would be the
best way, and then you could let me know what Ruth said.'

`No,' replied Owen, unable any longer to control his resentment of the
other's manner, `as things stand now, if it were not for the other
child, I should advise her to have nothing further to do with you.
You seem to think that you are acting a very generous part in being
"willing" to have her back, but she's better off now than she was with
you.  I see no reason - except for the other child - why she should go
back to you.  As far as I understand it, you had a good wife and you
ill-treated her.'

`I never ill-treated her!  I never raised my hand to her - at least
only once, and then I didn't hurt her.  Does she say I ill-treated
her.'

`Oh no: from what my wife tells me she only blames herself, but I'm
drawing my own conclusions.  You may not have struck her, but you did
worse - you treated her with indifference and exposed her to
temptation.  What has happened is the natural result of your neglect
and want of care for her.  The responsibility for what has happened is
mainly yours, but apparently you wish to pose now as being very
generous and to "forgive her" - you're "willing" to take her back; but
it seems to me that it would be more fitting that you should ask her
to forgive you.'

Easton made no answer and after a long silence the other continued:

`I would not advise her to go back to you on such terms as you seem to
think right, because if you became reconciled on such terms I don't
think either of you could be happy.  Your only chance of happiness is
to realize that you have both done wrong; that each of you has
something to forgive; to forgive and never speak of it again.'

Easton made no reply and a few minutes afterwards, their ways
diverging, they wished each other `Good night'.

They were working for Rushton - painting the outside of a new
conservatory at Mr Sweater's house, `The Cave'.  This job was finished
the next day and at four o'clock the boy brought the handcart, which
they loaded with their ladders and other materials.  They took these
back to the yard and then, as it was Friday night, they went up to the
front shop and handed in their time sheets.  Afterwards, as they were
about to separate, Easton again referred to the subject of their
conversation of the previous evening.  He had been very reserved and
silent all day, scarcely uttering a word except when the work they had
been engaged in made it necessary to do so, and there was now a sort
of catch in his voice as he spoke.

`I've been thinking over what you said last night; it's quite true.
I've been a great deal to blame.  I wrote to Ruth last night and
admitted it to her.  I'll take it as a favour if you and your wife
will say what you can to help me get her back.'

Owen stretched out his hand and as the other took it, said: `You may
rely on us both to do our best.'


Chapter 51

The Widow's Son


The next morning when they went to the yard at half past eight o'clock
Hunter told them that there was nothing to do, but that they had
better come on Monday in case some work came in.  They accordingly
went on the Monday, and Tuesday and Wednesday, but as nothing `came
in' of course they did not do any work.  On Thursday morning the
weather was dark and bitterly cold.  The sky presented an unbroken
expanse of dull grey and a keen north wind swept through the cheerless
streets.  Owen - who had caught cold whilst painting the outside of
the conservatory at Sweater's house the previous week - did not get to
the yard until ten o'clock.  He felt so ill that he would not have
gone at all if they had not needed the money he would be able to earn
if there was anything to do.  Strange though it may appear to the
advocates of thrift, although he had been so fortunate as to be in
employment when so many others were idle, they had not saved any
money.  On the contrary, during all the summer they had not been able
to afford to have proper food or clothing.  Every week most of the
money went to pay arrears of rent or some other debts, so that even
whilst he was at work they had often to go without some of the
necessaries of life.  They had broken boots, shabby, insufficient
clothing, and barely enough to eat.

The weather had become so bitterly cold that, fearing he would be laid
up if he went without it any longer, he took his overcoat out of pawn,
and that week they had to almost starve.  Not that it was much better
other weeks, for lately he had only been making six and a half hours a
day - from eight-thirty in the morning till four o'clock in the
evening, and on Saturday only four and a half hours - from half past
eight till one.  This made his wages - at sevenpence an hour -
twenty-one shillings and sevenpence a week - that is, when there was
work to do every day, which was not always.  Sometimes they had to
stand idle three days out of six.  The wages of those who got sixpence
halfpenny came out at one pound and twopence - when they worked every
day - and as for those who - like Sawkins - received only fivepence,
their week's wages amounted to fifteen and sixpence.

When they were only employed for two or three days or perhaps only a
few hours, their `Saturday night' sometimes amounted to half a
sovereign, seven and sixpence, five shillings or even less.  Then most
of them said that it was better than nothing at all.

Many of them were married men, so, in order to make existence
possible, their wives went out charing or worked in laundries.  They
had children whom they had to bring up for the most part on `skim'
milk, bread, margarine, and adulterated tea.  Many of these children -
little mites of eight or nine years - went to work for two or three
hours in the morning before going to school; the same in the evening
after school, and all day on Saturday, carrying butchers' trays loaded
with meat, baskets of groceries and vegetables, cans of paraffin oil,
selling or delivering newspapers, and carrying milk.  As soon as they
were old enough they got Half Time certificates and directly they were
fourteen they left school altogether and went to work all the day.
When they were old enough some of them tried to join the Army or Navy,
but were found physically unfit.

It is not much to be wondered at that when they became a little older
they were so degenerate intellectually that they imagined that the
surest way to obtain better conditions would be to elect gangs of
Liberal and Tory land-grabbers, sweaters, swindlers and lawyers to
rule over them.

When Owen arrived at the yard he found Bert White cleaning out the
dirty pots in the paint-shop.  The noise he made with the scraping
knife prevented him from hearing Owen's approach and the latter stood
watching him for some minutes without speaking.  The stone floor of
the paint shop was damp and shiny and the whole place was chilly as a
tomb.  The boy was trembling with cold and he looked pitifully
undersized and frail as he bent over his work with an old apron girt
about him.  Because it was so cold he was wearing his jacket with the
ends of the sleeves turned back to keep them clean, or to prevent them
getting any dirtier, for they were already in the same condition as
the rest of his attire, which was thickly encrusted with dried paint
of many colours, and his hands and fingernails were grimed with it.

As he watched the poor boy bending over his task, Owen thought of
Frankie, and with a feeling akin to terror wondered whether he would
ever be in a similar plight.

When he saw Owen, the boy left off working and wished him good
morning, remarking that it was very cold.

`Why don't you light a fire?  There's lots of wood lying about the
yard.'

`No,' said Bert shaking his head.  `That would never do!  Misery
wouldn't 'arf ramp if 'e caught me at it.  I used to 'ave a fire 'ere
last winter till Rushton found out, and 'e kicked up an orful row and
told me to move meself and get some work done and then I wouldn't feel
the cold.'

`Oh, he said that, did he?' said Owen, his pale face becoming suddenly
suffused with blood.  `We'll see about that.'

He went out into the yard and crossing over to where - under a shed -
there was a great heap of waste wood, stuff that had been taken out of
places where Rushton & Co. had made alterations, he gathered an armful
of it and was returning to the paintshop when Sawkins accosted him.

`You mustn't go burnin' any of that, you know!  That's all got to be
saved and took up to the bloke's house.  Misery spoke about it only
this mornin'.'

Owen did not answer him.  He carried the wood into the shop and after
throwing it into the fireplace he poured some old paint over it, and,
applying a match, produced a roaring fire.  Then he brought in several
more armfuls of wood and piled them in a corner of the shop.  Bert
took no part in these proceedings, and at first rather disapproved of
them because he was afraid there would be trouble when Misery came,
but when the fire was an accomplished fact he warmed his hands and
shifted his work to the other side of the bench so as to get the
benefit of the heat.

Owen waited for about half an hour to see if Hunter would return, but
as that disciple did not appear, he decided not to wait any longer.
Before leaving he gave Bert some instructions:

`Keep up the fire with all the old paint that you can scrape off those
things and any other old paint or rubbish that's here, and whenever it
grows dull put more wood on.  There's a lot of old stuff here that's
of no use except to be thrown away or burnt.  Burn it all.  If Hunter
says anything, tell him that I lit the fire, and that I told you to
keep it burning.  If you want more wood, go out and take it.'

`All right,' replied Bert.

On his way out Owen spoke to Sawkins.  His manner was so menacing, his
face so pale, and there was such a strange glare in his eyes, that the
latter thought of the talk there had been about Owen being mad, and
felt half afraid of him.

`I am going to the office to see Rushton; if Hunter comes here, you
say I told you to tell him that if I find the boy in that shop again
without a fire, I'll report it to the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children.  And as for you, if the boy comes out here to get
more wood, don't you attempt to interfere with him.'

`I don't want to interfere with the bloody kid,' grunted Sawkins.  `It
seems to me as if he's gorn orf 'is bloody crumpet,' he added as he
watched Owen walking rapidly down the street.  `I can't understand why
people can't mind their own bloody business: anyone would think the
boy belonged to 'IM.'

That was just how the matter presented itself to Owen.  The idea that
it was his own child who was to be treated in this way possessed and
infuriated him as he strode savagely along.  In the vicinity of the
Slave Market on the Grand Parade he passed - without seeing them -
several groups of unemployed artisans whom he knew.  Some of them were
offended and remarked that he was getting stuck up, but others,
observing how strange he looked, repeated the old prophecy that one of
these days Owen would go out of his mind.

As he drew near to his destination large flakes of snow began to fall.
He walked so rapidly and was in such a fury that by the time he
reached the shop he was scarcely able to speak.

`Is - Hunter - or Rushton here?' he demanded of the shopman.

`Hunter isn't, but the guv'nor is.  What was it you wanted?'

`He'll soon - know - that,' panted Owen as he strode up to the office
door, and without troubling to knock, flung it violently open and
entered.

The atmosphere of this place was very different from that of the damp
cellar where Bert was working.  A grate fitted with asbestos blocks
and lit with gas communicated a genial warmth to the air.

Rushton was standing leaning over Miss Wade's chair with his left arm
round her neck.  Owen recollected afterwards that her dress was
disarranged.  She retired hastily to the far end of the room as
Rushton jumped away from her, and stared in amazement and confusion at
the intruder - he was too astonished and embarrassed to speak.  Owen
stood panting and quivering in the middle of the office and pointed a
trembling finger at his employer:

`I've come - here - to tell - you - that - if I find young - Bert
White - working - down in that shop - without a fire - I'll have you
prosecuted.  The place is not good enough for a stable - if you owned
a valuable dog - you wouldn't keep it there - I give you fair warning -
I know - enough - about you - to put you - where you deserve to be -
if you don't treat him better I'll have you punished I'll show you
up.'

Rushton continued to stare at him in mingled confusion, fear and
perplexity; he did not yet comprehend exactly what it was all about;
he was guiltily conscious of so many things which he might reasonably
fear to be shown up or prosecuted for if they were known, and the fact
of being caught under such circumstances with Miss Wade helped to
reduce him to a condition approaching terror.

`If the boy has been there without a fire, I 'aven't known anything
about it,' he stammered at last.  `Mr 'Unter has charge of all those
matters.'

`You - yourself - forbade him - to make a fire last winter - and
anyhow - you know about it now.  You obtained money from his mother
under the pretence - that you were going - to teach him a trade - but
for the last twelve months - you have been using him - as if he were -
a beast of burden.  I advise you to see to it - or I shall - find -
means - to make you - wish you had done so.'

With this Owen turned and went out, leaving the door open, and Rushton
in a state of mind compounded of fear, amazement and anger.

As he walked homewards through the snow-storm, Owen began to realize
that the consequence of what he had done would be that Rushton would
not give him any more work, and as he reflected on all that this would
mean to those at home, for a moment he doubted whether he had done
right.  But when he told Nora what had happened she said there were
plenty of other firms in the town who would employ him - when they had
the work.  He had done without Rushton before and could do so again;
for her part - whatever the consequences might be - she was glad that
he had acted as he did.

`We'll get through somehow, I suppose,' said Owen, wearily.  `There's
not much chance of getting a job anywhere else just now, but I shall
try to get some work on my own account.  I shall do some samples of
show-cards the same as I did last winter and try to get orders from
some of the shops - they usually want something extra at this time,
but I'm afraid it is rather too late: most of them already have all
they want.'

`I shouldn't go out again today if I were you,' said Nora, noticing
how ill he looked.  `You should stay at home and read, or write up
those minutes.'

The minutes referred to were those of the last meeting of the local
branch of the Painters' Society, of which Owen was the secretary, and
as the snow continued to fall, he occupied himself after dinner in the
manner his wife suggested, until four o'clock, when Frankie returned
from school bringing with him a large snowball, and crying out as a
piece of good news that the snow was still falling heavily, and that
he believed it was freezing!

They went to bed very early that night, for it was necessary to
economize the coal, and not only that, but - because the rooms were so
near the roof - it was not possible to keep the place warm no matter
how much coal was used.  The fire seemed, if anything, to make the
place colder, for it caused the outer air to pour in through the
joints of the ill-fitting doors and windows.

Owen lay awake for the greater part of the night.  The terror of the
future made rest or sleep impossible.  He got up very early the next
morning - long before it was light - and after lighting the fire, set
about preparing the samples he had mentioned to Nora, but found that
it would not be possible to do much in this direction without buying
more cardboard, for most of what he had was not in good condition.

They had bread and butter and tea for breakfast.  Frankie had his in
bed and it was decided to keep him away from school until after dinner
because the weather was so very cold and his only pair of boots were
so saturated with moisture from having been out in the snow the
previous day.

`I shall make a few inquiries to see if there's any other work to be
had before I buy the cardboard,' said Owen, `although I'm afraid it's
not much use.'

Just as he was preparing to go out, the front door bell rang, and as
he was going down to answer it he saw Bert White coming upstairs.  The
boy was carrying a flat, brown-paper parcel under his arm.

`A corfin plate,' he explained as he arrived at the door.  `Wanted at
once - Misery ses you can do it at 'ome, an' I've got to wait for it.'

Owen and his wife looked at each other with intense relief.  So he was
not to be dismissed after all.  It was almost too good to be true.

`There's a piece of paper inside the parcel with the name of the party
what's dead,' continued Bert, `and here's a little bottle of Brunswick
black for you to do the inscription with.'

`Did he send any other message?'

`Yes: he told me to tell you there's a job to be started Monday morning -
a couple of rooms to be done out somewhere.  Got to be finished by
Thursday; and there's another job 'e wants you to do this afternoon -
after dinner - so you've got to come to the yard at one o'clock.  'E
told me to tell you 'e meant to leave a message for you yesterday
morning, but 'e forgot.'

`What did he say to you about the fire - anything?'

`Yes: they both of 'em came about an hour after you went away - Misery
and the Bloke too - but they didn't kick up a row.  I wasn't arf
frightened, I can tell you, when I saw 'em both coming, but they was
quite nice.  The Bloke ses to me, "Ah, that's right, my boy," 'e ses.
"Keep up a good fire.  I'm going to send you some coke," 'e ses.  And
then they 'ad a look round and 'e told Sawkins to put some new panes
of glass where the winder was broken, and - you know that great big
packing-case what was under the truck shed?'

`Yes.'

`Well, 'e told Sawkins to saw it up and cover over the stone floor of
the paint-shop with it.  It ain't 'arf all right there now.  I've
cleared out all the muck from under the benches and we've got two
sacks of coke sent from the gas-works, and the Bloke told me when
that's all used up I've got to get a order orf Miss Wade for another
lot.'

At one o'clock Owen was at the yard, where he saw Misery, who
instructed him to go to the front shop and paint some numbers on the
racks where the wallpapers were stored.  Whilst he was doing this work
Rushton came in and greeted him in a very friendly way.

`I'm very glad you let me know about the boy working in that
paint-shop,' he observed after a few preliminary remarks.  `I can
assure you as I don't want the lad to be uncomfortable, but you know I
can't attend to everything myself.  I'm much obliged to you for
telling me about it; I think you did quite right; I should have done
the same myself.'

Owen did not know what to reply, but Rushton walked off without
waiting...


Chapter 52

'It's a Far, Far Better Thing that I do, than I have Ever Done'


Although Owen, Easton and Crass and a few others were so lucky as to
have had a little work to do during the last few months, the majority
of their fellow workmen had been altogether out of employment most of
the time, and meanwhile the practical business-men, and the pretended
disciples of Christ - the liars and hypocrites who professed to
believe that all men are brothers and God their Father - had continued
to enact the usual farce that they called `Dealing' with the misery
that surrounded them on every side.  They continued to organize
`Rummage' and `Jumble' sales and bazaars, and to distribute their
rotten cast-off clothes and boots and their broken victuals and soup
to such of the Brethren as were sufficiently degraded to beg for them.
The beautiful Distress Committee was also in full operation; over a
thousand Brethren had registered themselves on its books.  Of this
number - after careful investigation - the committee had found that no
fewer than six hundred and seventy-two were deserving of being allowed
to work for their living.  The Committee would probably have given
these six hundred and seventy-two the necessary permission, but it was
somewhat handicapped by the fact that the funds at its disposal were
only sufficient to enable that number of Brethren to be employed for
about three days.  However, by adopting a policy of temporizing,
delay, and general artful dodging, the Committee managed to create the
impression that they were Dealing with the Problem.

If it had not been for a cunning device invented by Brother Rushton, a
much larger number of the Brethren would have succeeded in registering
themselves as unemployed on the books of the Committee.  In previous
years it had been the practice to issue an application form called a
`Record Paper' to any Brother who asked for one, and the Brother
returned it after filling it in himself.  At a secret meeting of the
Committee Rushton proposed - amid laughter and applause, it was such a
good joke - a new and better way, calculated to keep down the number
of applicants.  The result of this innovation was that no more forms
were issued, but the applicants for work were admitted into the office
one at a time, and were there examined by a junior clerk, somewhat
after the manner of a French Juge d'Instruction interrogating a
criminal, the clerk filling in the form according to the replies of
the culprit.

`What's your name?'

`Where do you live?'

`How long have you been living there?'

`Where did you live before you went there?'

`How long were you living at that place?'

`Why did you move?'

`Did you owe any rent when you left?'

`What was your previous address?'

`How old are you?  When was your last birthday?'

`What is your Trade, Calling, Employment, or Occupation?'

`Are you Married or single or a Widower or what?'

`How many children have you?  How many boys?  How many girls?  Do they
go to work?  What do they earn?'


`What kind of a house do you live in?  How many rooms are there?'

`How much rent do you owe?'

`Who was your last employer?  What was the foreman's name?  How long
did you work there?  What kind of work did you do?  Why did you
leave?'

`What have you been doing for the last five years?  What kind of work,
how many hours a day?  What wages did you get?'

`Give the full names and addresses of all the different employers you
have worked for during the last five years, and the reasons why you
left them?'

`Give the names of all the foremen you have worked under during the
last five years?'

`Does your wife earn anything?  How much?'

`Do you get any money from any Club or Society, or from any Charity,
or from any other source?'

`Have you ever received Poor Relief?'

`Have you ever worked for a Distress Committee before?'

`Have you ever done any other kinds of work than those you have
mentioned?  Do you think you would be fit for any other kind'

`Have you any references?' and so on and so forth.

When the criminal had answered all the questions, and when his answers
had all been duly written down, he was informed that a member of the
Committee, or an Authorized Officer, or some Other Person, would in
due course visit his home and make inquiries about him, after which
the Authorized Officer or Other Person would make a report to the
Committee, who would consider it at their next meeting.

As the interrogation of each criminal occupied about half an hour, to
say nothing of the time he was kept waiting, it will be seen that as a
means of keeping down the number of registered unemployed the idea
worked splendidly.

