Captain John Hayes, of the Bombay marine, with the private ships _Duke_
and _Duchess_, examined Storm Bay and D'Entrecasteaux's Channel, in
1794. He passed up the Rivère du Nord much farther than the French,
which he called the Derwent; and in his passage affixed names to various
places, which have effaced those given by the original French
discoverers--whose survey, however, to the extent of their navigation,
was more correct than his own.

The form of Van Diemen's Land had long been a nautical problem. Captain
Hunter, observing the swell of the ocean, deemed the existence of a
strait highly probable. Mr. George Bass, surgeon of the royal navy, a
gentleman to whom his generous friend Flinders refers with great
admiration, resolved to test the conjecture. He had already given proof
of intrepidity: in company with Flinders and a boy, he embarked in a
boat, eight feet long, called _Tom Thumb_. After escaping great dangers,
they returned to Port Jackson with valuable information respecting the
coast.

In 1798, Bass obtained from Governor Hunter a six-oared whale boat, six
men, and six weeks provisions: with this outfit he proceeded along the
eastern coast of New Holland, occasionally landing and obtaining
supplies, which enabled him to prolong his absence to eleven weeks. He
continued his course until the agitation of the water convinced him that
the open sea was not far distant: he discovered Western Port, and a
country of great attraction. He explored six hundred miles of coast,
one-half of which was hitherto unknown; an enterprise beyond example in
nautical adventure, and entitling him to that renown which belongs to
his name.

To test this discovery, the governor authorised Lieutenant Flinders and
Mr. Bass to sail through the strait in the _Norfolk_, a colonial sloop,
of 25 tons. Twelve weeks only were allowed for the voyage, which
compelled the navigators to content themselves with a cursory survey.

In October, 1798, they left Port Jackson: after spending some time
among the islands which crowd the straits, they sighted Cape Portland, a
name given it in honor of the Duke of Portland, then secretary for the
colonies; thence they passed Port Waterhouse, so called after the
captain of the _Reliance_. The first important discovery was Port
Dalrymple, called after the hydrographer of the admiralty, Alexander
Dalrymple.[10] Green Isle, Western Arm, Middle Island, Whirlpool Reach,
Swan Point, and Crescent Shore, preserve memorials of the visit in their
designations.

They reported Port Dalrymple an excellent place for refreshments: black
swans, whose quills covered the beach in countless thousands; kangaroos,
of the forest kind; flocks of ducks and teal, and mussels and oysters,
were found in abundance.

Proceeding along the coast, they came to a headland, which they called
Circular Head, from its resemblance to a Christmas cake. They now
approached the solution of the question which had dictated their voyage.
They remarked a long swell from the south-west breaking on the western
shore: they hailed it with joy and mutual gratulation, and passed in
safety the clustering islets in their course: the extreme north-west
they called Cape Grim. Proceeding round the western coast, they observed
the mountains noticed by Tasman when he visited the island, which in
memory of his vessels they called Mount Heemskirk and Mount Zeehaan.
They named Point Hibbs after the master of the _Norfolk_. The
discoveries of Flinders here may be said to terminate, until he
proceeded up the Derwent.

The utility of the strait was highly rated. It secured perpetual renown
to Bass, whose name it bears: this was given by Governor Hunter at the
recommendation of Flinders, whose candour is always conspicuous in
awarding the palm of discovery to those to whom it is due! Not only does
the strait curtail a voyage from the Cape by four degrees, but vessels
avoid the winds which obstruct navigation round the South Cape and Cape
Pillar of Van Diemen's Land, which prolong the passage several days; a
point of great importance in the conveyance of passengers.

The _Norfolk_ steered into the Derwent by the chart of Hayes. Both
Flinders and Bass observe, with indignation, how creeks are magnified
into rivers, coves into bays, and a few acres into plains: as Risdon
River, Prince of Wales's Bay, and King George's Plains. They corrected
his definitions, but left him the honors of discovery. Flinders
proceeded to Herdsman's Cove, which he so distinguished for its
extensive pasture and plentiful waters.

Bass depicts the Derwent as a dull and lifeless stream, respectable only
because the Tasmanian rivers are insignificant![11] To a bay they
entered on the western side of Tasman's Peninsula, they gave the name of
their vessel, which was built at Norfolk Island, of the pine peculiar to
that place.

Flinders continued, after the departure of Bass, to prosecute researches
on the coast of New Holland, until the _Reliance_ returned home. In that
vessel his charts were conveyed, and were published. On a plan being
offered by Sir Joseph Banks for completing the survey, the
_Investigator_ was placed under the command of Flinders, who was
promoted to the rank of commander, furnished with a chosen crew, and
attended by Westall, a painter, and Brown, a naturalist whose collection
added largely to his department of science. Flinders received a passport
from the French government, expressed with the usual amplitude. It
inhibited all vessels of war from molesting the _Investigator_, and gave
right of entry to all ports subject to France, for refitting or
refreshment, on condition that nothing were done hostile to that power.
This protection was demanded by Lord Hawksbury, of M. Otto, the
celebrated representative of the Republic in England. Flinders had
proposed to visit Van Diemen's Land, but had been partly anticipated by
the _Lady Nelson_, sent from England to be employed as tender to the
_Investigator_, and fitted with a keel suited to shallow waters. CHAPTER
XX.

VENETIAN TRAITS AND CHARACTERS.

On a small canal, not far from the railroad station, the gondoliers
show you a house, by no means notable (except for the noble statue of
a knight, occupying a niche in one corner), as the house of Othello.
It was once the palace of the patrician family Moro, a name well
known in the annals of the Republic, and one which, it has been
suggested, misled Shakespeare into the invention of a Moor of
Venice. Whether this is possibly the fact, or whether there is any
tradition of a tragic incident in the history of the Moro family
similar to that upon which the play is founded, I do not know; but
it is certain that the story of Othello, very nearly as Shakespeare
tells it, is popularly known in Venice; and the gondoliers have
fixed upon the Casa Moro in question as the edifice best calculated
to give satisfaction to strangers in search of the True and the
Memorable.

The statue is happily darkened by time, and thus serves admirably to
represent Othello's complexion, and to place beyond the shadow of a
doubt the fact of his residence in the house. Indeed, what can you say
to the gondolier, who, in answer to your cavils, points to the knight,
with the convincing argument, "There is his statue!"
One day I was taken to see this house, in company with some friends,
and when it had been victoriously pointed out, as usual, we asked
meekly, "Who was Othello?"

"Othello, Signori," answered the gondolier, "was a general of the
Republic, in the old times.
When
passing through Torres Straits, at between eight and nine knots, they
saw breakers a-head. Before signals could be made, the other vessels
were seen hastening to the same destruction. They hauled to the wind
across each other; a collision seemed inevitable: a death-like silence
prevailed during the awful crisis; but happily they passed off side by
side. Instantly, however, the _Cato_ struck on the reef, and was totally
lost. All hands were preserved, except three boys; of these, one spent
the night on a spar, bewailing his unhappy lot: four times he had
embarked in different vessels, and each time had been wrecked; this was
the last, for before morning he disappeared. The _Bridgewater_ was yet
safe: she was seen at dawn; but while awaiting her help, the captain,
with a selfishness happily not common--without even sending a boat to
pick up a cast-away--proceeded on his voyage.[15] He reached India in
safety; sailed for Europe, and was never heard of more: the people he
had abandoned were all rescued.

This was effected by Flinders. A cutter was built and provisioned from
the stores saved on the reef: in this, which he called the _Hope_, he
set out for Port Jackson, 750 miles distant. There he obtained the
assistance of two vessels, beside the _Cumberland_, a colonial schooner
of 29 tons. The inhabitants, unsolicited, sent many presents to the
sufferers, who soon hailed the arrival of Flinders with rapturous
cheers.

Having performed this duty, he proceeded towards England in the
_Cumberland_, with seven men and three officers; but finding that she
was unable to bear the voyage, he resolved to confide in the honor of
the French, and present his passport at the Mauritius. There he was
detained a prisoner six years; first charged with imposture, then
treated as a spy; and when these imputations were refuted, he was
accused of violating his passport. The French had found in his journal a
wish dotted down to examine the state of that settlement, written when a
stranger to the renewal of war. Some doubt seems to have been really
entertained, for the moment, respecting him; but his long detention
after his release was promised, was ascribed to the ambition of
Napoleon, and the dishonesty of the French Institute, who from Flinders'
papers were appropriating to Baudin the honor of discoveries he never
himself claimed.

Before the _Investigator_ left England, the _Geographe_ and
_Naturaliste_, under Captains Baudin and Hamelin, visited this island.
During a pause in the hostilities of Europe, the French government
obtained from Mr. Addington, then premier, a safe conduct for this
expedition. The terms granted entitled them to freedom from search; to
supplies in any English colony, notwithstanding the contingency of war:
it being well said by the French, that the promoters of scientific
knowledge were the common benefactors of mankind. While Flinders was
prosecuting his voyage he met Baudin on the coast of New Holland, at a
place thence called Encounter Bay. The interview was civil, rather than
cordial; both nations were competitors in science, and rivals are rarely
kind. Yet the suffering of the French may be mentioned with pity: of
twenty-three scientific men who accompanied the expedition, three only
survived. The vessels were ill-provisioned, the water corrupt, and they
encountered fearful tempests, in attempting to circumnavigate this
island.

Captain Baudin had been directed by his government to examine the
eastern coast of Van Diemen's Land, the discoveries of D'Entrecasteaux,
and the channels and rivers of the coast. The surgeon of the
_Geographe_, Monge, fell by an attack of the natives, and was buried on
the spot which bears his name.[16] The French surveyed the eastern
coast, and finally determined the position of the Frederick Henry Bay of
Tasman. They examined the intricacies which had escaped the observation
of earlier navigators, who erroneously numbered the islands on their
charts, and thus overlooked the bays. They coasted between the main and
the Schoutens, and gave the name of Fleurieu to the Oyster Bay of Cox.
They then passed through a strait heretofore unnoticed, which divides
the Schoutens and Freycinet's Peninsula. Their survey was minute, and
sometimes three boats were employed in different directions. The French
vessels parted company, and the _Naturaliste_, after a long search for
her consort, proceeded to New South Wales.

Baudin, of the _Geographe_, was far more unfortunate. Having touched at
his land of Napoleon, instead of returning through Bass's Strait to Port
Jackson, he resolved to pass the south cape of Van Diemen's Land.
Throughout the passage he experienced the most fearful storms: the
darkness at night often prevented the execution of naval manoeuvres, and
the vessel was drenched with water. The condition of the crew was
terrible; "cries of agony made the air ring:" four only, including the
officers of the watch, were able to keep the decks. After beating about
Port Jackson for several days, a boat appeared which had been dispatched
by the governor, who saw the French were unable to manage the vessel. By
a change of diet, they speedily recovered.

When at Port Jackson, Flinders showed his discoveries to the French, who
admitted the justice of his prior claim, but with little sincerity.

M. Baudin died: Captain Hamilin, of the _Naturaliste_, returned to the
Mauritius. He eulogised the conduct of the colonists to
extravagance;[17] but it is mortifying to find, that soon after, having
captured a small English settlement, he burned the property he could not
carry off; and invited upon deck the ladies, his prisoners, to witness
the devastations of their late peaceful dwellings.

The misfortunes of the distinguished navigators, whose success has been
recorded, fully equalled their fame. The fate of Cook belongs to a story
which mingles with our early remembrance. A child need scarcely be told,
that after a career eminently glorious to his country and profession,
while attempting to restrain his men who were firing to protect him, he
fell by the dagger of a savage.

His colleague, Captain Clerke, who attended him through all his
expeditions, did not long survive him. Resolved to complete his
instructions, he remained in the neighbourhood of Kamschatka, which
hastened the crisis of a consumption. He was buried beneath a tree at
the harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul, and an inscription pointed to his
grave.[18] This was found by M. Perouse defaced, who restored it. On his
arrival at Botany Bay, he interred the naturalist of his expedition: the
memorial he set up was destroyed by the natives, and Governor Phillip
repaid, by the substitution of another, the honor done to his own
countryman.[19]

De L'Angle, the companion of Perouse, with eleven officers and men, lost
their lives by a misunderstanding at the Navigators' Isles: the manner
of his own death may be inferred from the native tradition.[20]

The end of D'Entrecasteaux and Huon, was hardly less melancholy: both
commanders were buried by their crews; the admiral at Louisiade, and
Huon at New Caledonia. The vessels were detained by the Dutch at Java,
and many of the seamen died in captivity. There the calamities of their
country became known to them: some sided with the royalists, others with
the jacobins, but few regained their native land; among these, however,
was Labillardière.[21]

The fate of Captain Flinders is already told; that of Dr. Bass is
involved in obscurity. A rumour that he was alive in 1812, in South
America, was circulated in London.[22] In the colonies it was reported,
that the vessel in his charge foundered at sea; others alleged that he
attempted a contraband trade in the Spanish colonies, was taken
prisoner, and with his companions sent to the quicksilver mines, and
there died.[23]

