I speak thus modestly, as there is now a trail of patterns of this habit
from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast. Wherever it goes, it makes
converts, especially among the wives of army officers at the various
Western posts where we have been--for the majority of women in the West,
and I nearly said all the sensible ones, now ride astride.

When off the horse, there is nothing about this habit to distinguish it
from any trim golf suit, with the stitching up the left front which is
now so popular. When on the horse, it looks, as some one phrased it, as
though one were riding side saddle on both sides. This is accomplished by
having the fronts of the skirt double, free nearly to the waist, and,
when off the horse, fastened by patent hooks. The back seam is also open,
faced for several inches, stitched and closed by patent fasteners. Snug
bloomers of the same material are worn underneath. The simplicity of
this habit is its chief charm; there is no superfluous material to sit
upon--oh, the torture of wrinkled cloth in the divided skirt!--and it
does not fly up even in a strong wind, if one knows how to ride. The
skirt is four inches from the ground--it should not bell much on the
sides--and about three and a half yards at the bottom, which is finished
with a five-inch stitched hem.

[Illustration: COSTUME FOR CROSS SADDLE RIDING. Designed by the Author.]

Any style of jacket is of course suitable. One that looks well on the
horse is tight fitting, with postilion back, short on hips, sharp pointed
in front, with single-breasted vest of reddish leather (the habit
material of brown whipcord), fastened by brass buttons, leather collar
and revers, and a narrow leather band on the close-fitting sleeves. 
THE RELICS OF GENERAL CHASSE--A TALE OF ANTWERP
by Anthony Trollope

That Belgium is now one of the European kingdoms, living by its own laws,
resting on its own bottom, with a king and court, palaces and parliament
of its own, is known to all the world.

And a very nice little kingdom it is; full of old towns, fine Flemish
pictures, and interesting Gothic churches. But in the memory of very
many of us who do not think ourselves old men, Belgium, as it is now
called--in those days it used to be Flanders and Brabant--was a part of
Holland; and it obtained its own independence by a revolution. In that
revolution the most important military step was the siege of Antwerp,
which was defended on the part of the Dutch by General Chasse, with the
utmost gallantry, but nevertheless ineffectually.

After the siege Antwerp became quite a show place; and among the
visitors who flocked there to talk of the gallant general, and to
see what remained of the great effort which he had made to defend
the place, were two Englishmen.

One was the hero of this little history; and the other was a young man
of considerably less weight in the world. The less I say of the latter the
better; but it is necessary that I should give some description of the
former.

The Rev. Augustus Horne was, at the time of my narrative, a beneficed
clergyman of the Church of England.

The profession which he had graced sat easily on him. Its external marks
and signs were as pleasing to his friends as were its internal comforts
to himself.
He was a man of much quiet mirth, full of polished wit, and on some rare
occasions he could descend to the more noisy hilarity of a joke. Loved
by his friends he loved all the world. He had known no care and seen
no sorrow. Always intended for holy orders he had entered them without a
scruple, and remained within their pale without a regret. At
twenty-four he had been a deacon, at twenty- seven a priest, at thirty a
rector, and at thirty-five a prebendary; and as his rectory was
rich and his prebendal stall well paid, the Rev.

Augustus Horne was called by all, and called himself, a happy man. His
stature was about six feet two, and his corpulence exceeded even those
bounds which symmetry would have preferred as being most perfectly
compatible even with such a height. But nevertheless Mr. Horne was a
well-made man; his hands and feet were small; his face was
handsome, frank, and full of expression; his bright eyes twinkled
with humour; his finely-cut mouth disclosed two marvellous rows of
well-preserved ivory; and his slightly aquiline nose was just such a
projection as one would wish to see on the face of a well-fed
good-natured dignitary of the Church of England.

When I add to all this that the reverend gentleman was as generous
as he was rich--and the kind mother in whose arms he had been
nurtured had taken care that he should never want--I need hardly
say that I was blessed with a very pleasant travelling companion.Good; then I can do it,
and _enjoy_ it too."

I particularly insisted upon the latter clause--in the East. This
formula is applicable in any situation. I never should have gotten
through my Western experiences without it, and I advise you, my dear
Woman-who-goes-hunting-with-her-husband, to take a large stock of it made
up and ready for use. There is one other rule for your conduct, if you
want to be a success: think what you like, but unless it is pleasant,
_don't say it_.

Is it better to ride astride? I will not carry the battle ground into the
East, although even here I have my opinion; but in the West, in the
mountains, there can be no question that it is the _only way_. Here is an
example to illustrate: Two New York women, mother and daughter, took a
trip of some three hundred miles over the pathless Wind River Mountains.
The mother rode astride, but the daughter preferred to exhibit her
Durland Academy accomplishment, and rode sidesaddle, according to the
fashion set by an artful queen to hide her deformity. The advantages of
health, youth and strength were all with the daughter; yet in every case
on that long march it was the daughter who gave out first and compelled
the pack train to halt while she and her horse rested. And the daughter
was obliged to change from one horse to another, while the same horse was
able to carry the mother, a slightly heavier woman, through the trip. And
the back of the horse which the daughter had ridden chiefly was in such a
condition from saddle galls that the animal, two months before a
magnificent creature, had to be shot.

I hear you say, "But that was an extreme case." Perhaps it was, but it
supports the verdict of the old mountaineers who refuse to let any horse
they prize be saddled with "those gol-darned woman fripperies."

There is also another side. A woman at best is physically handicapped
when roughing it with husband or brother. Then why increase that handicap
by wearing trailing skirts that catch on every log and bramble, and which
demand the services of at least one hand to hold up (fortunately this
battle is already won), and by choosing to ride side-saddle, thus making
it twice as difficult to mount and dismount by yourself, which in fact
compels you to seek the assistance of a log, or stone, or a friendly hand
for a lift? Western riding is not Central Park riding, nor is it Rotten
Row riding. The cowboy's, or military, seat is much simpler and easier
for both man and beast than the Park seat--though, of course, less
stylish. That is the glory of it; you can go galloping over the prairie
and uplands with never a thought that the trot is more proper, and your
course, untrammelled by fenced-in roads, is straight to the setting sun
or to yonder butte. And if you want a spice of danger, it is there,
sometimes more than you want, in the presence of badger and gopher holes,
to step into which while at high speed may mean a broken leg for your
horse, perhaps a broken neck for yourself. But to return to the
independence of riding astride:

One day I was following a game trail along a very steep bank which ended
a hundred feet below in a granite precipice. It had been raining and
snowing in a fitful fashion, and the clay ground was slippery, making a
most treacherous footing. One of the pack animals just ahead of my horse
slipped, fell to his knees, the heavy pack overbalanced him, and away he
rolled over and over down the slope, to be stopped from the precipice
only by the happy accident of a scrub tree in the way. Frightened by this
sight, my animal plunged, and he, too, lost his footing. Had I been
riding side-saddle, nothing could have saved me, for the downhill was on
the near side; but instead I swung out of the saddle on the off side and
landed in a heap on the uphill, still clutching the bridle. That act
saved my horse's life, probably, as well as my own. For the sudden weight
I put on the upper side as I swung off enabled him to recover his balance
just in time. I do not pretend to say that I can dismount from the off
side as easily as from the near, because I am not accustomed to it. The
second, though they cannot, before emancipation, inherit or acquire
property, have many privileges, and cannot be sold or transferred.

A female, who has a child to her master, belongs to the privileged class;
as does a slave, to whom his master has promised his liberty, on the
payment of a certain sum, or on his death.--_Sir J.
Malcolm's Sketches of Persia._
* * * * *

The Gatherer.

"I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's stuff."--_Wotton._

LEVEES.

Secretaries of state, presidents of the council, and generals of an army,
have crowds of visitants in a morning, all soliciting of past
promises; which are but a civiller sort of duns, that lay claim to
voluntary debts.

--CONGREVE.

* * * * *

PERVERSE PUN.

The other day as Kenny was dining at a friend's house, after dinner wine
being introduced and Kenny partaking of it, was on the instant observed
to cough immoderately, when one of the company inquired if the cause
was not owing to a bit of cork getting into the glass; to which Kenny
replied, "I should think it was Cork, for it went far to _Kill Kenny_."

P.K.R.

* * * * *

AUTHORS AND EDITORS.

"Do you hear, let them be well used."

SHAKSPEARE.

Accustomed as our readers are to the quips, quirks, and quibbles, of
the _Gatherer_, we doubt whether the following loose reflections will not
be received as egotistical, or out of place. But we are induced to the
hazard by the recent appearance of "The Tale of a Modern Genius," (stated
to be by Mr. Pennie,) and an interesting paper in the last _London
Magazine_, entitled "Memoirs of a Young Peasant:" in which productions
the fates and fortunes of genius are set forth with very powerful
claims to the sympathy of readers.

Indeed, we recommend their perusal to many of our "neglected" correspondents,
in the hope of their becoming more reconciled to the justice with
which their contributions are rejected.

In the comparison, their works will be as "the labours of idleness,"
listlessly penned under first impressions, or, at best, with the
fond anticipation of appearing in print.

Vexatious as the disappointment may appear, what is it compared
with the bare fate of genius, stripped of the bare means of sustenance
by the unsuccessful result of a literary engagement, or the
non-completion of a purchase, on which probably depended the very
day's existence.

The subject is trite and hacknied; but all that has been written about
the illusions and misgivings of genius will not alter its complexion.

It is true that such details have raised a spirit of sympathetic
forbearance towards the distresses of men of letters, except in the
breasts of the most barbarous and vulgar.

But their sufferings are doubly acute, and their perceptions doubly
tender.

In their intercourse with mankind, they become _flattered_ by
associates, and it not unfrequently happens that men who are the
most ready to quote such ascendancy or superiority in society, are
the first to break the charm they have created, by some act of
extreme rigour. Such conduct is cruel and unchristian.
Again, the sufferings of men of genius are increased by their own
reflection on them, and in addition to real woes they thus inflict
on themselves thousands of imaginary ones. A loss in trade may be
repaired by the profits of the succeeding day, and all be set right,
where gain is the sole idol; but when fame is mixed up in the
pursuit, there is a suffering beyond the hour, the day, or the
year--mixed up in the defeat.
Hope is crushed; and after her flittering shade spring up misanthropy
and despair._One candle lamp, with enough candles_. Then leave all the rest of the
cooking outfit to your cook and trust in Providence. (If you do not
approve of Providence, a full aluminum cooking outfit can be bought so
that one pot or pan nests in the other, the whole very complete, compact
and light.)

Come what may, you have your own particular clean hot plate, cup and
saucer, knife, fork, spoon and napkin, with a table to eat from and a
chair to sit on and a lamp to see by, if you are eating after dark--which
often happens--and nothing else matters, but food.

If you want to be canny you will have somewhere in your own pack a modest
supply of condensed soups and vegetables, a box or two of meat crackers,
and three or four bottles of bouillon, to be brought out on occasions of
famine. Anyway it is a comfort to know that you have provided against the
wolf. So much for your part of the eating; now for the sleeping. If you
do not sleep warm and comfortable at night, the joys of camping are as
dust in the mouth. The most glorious morning that Nature ever produced is
a weariness to the flesh of the owl-eyed. So whatever else you leave
behind, be sure your sleeping arrangements are comfortable. The following
is the result of three years' experience:--

_A piece of waterproof brown canvas_, 7 by 10 feet, bound with tape
and supplied with two heavy leather straps nine feet long, with strong
buckles at one end and fastened to the canvas by means of canvas
loops, and one leather strap six feet long that crosses the other two
at right angles.

_One rubber air bed_, 36 by 76 inches (don't take a narrower size or you
will be uncomfortable), fitted with large size double valve at each end.
This bed is six inches thick when blown full of air. Be sure that sides
are inserted, thus making two seams to join together the top and bottom
six inches apart. If the top and bottom are fastened directly together,
your bed slopes down at the sides, which is always disagreeable.

_A sleeping bag_, with the canvas cover made the full 36 inches wide.
This cover should hold two blanket bags of different weight, and if you
are wise you will have made an eider-down bag to fit inside all of these
for very cold weather. The eider bag costs about $16.00 or $18.00, but
is worth it if you are going to camp out in the mountains after August.
Do without one or two summer hats, but get it, for it is the keynote of
camp comfort.

Then you want a lamb's wool night wrapper, a neutral grey or brown in
color, a set of heavy night flannels, some heavy woollen stockings and a
woollen tam o' shanter large enough to pull down over the ears. A
hot-water bag, also, takes up no room and is heavenly on a freezing
night when the wind is howling through the trees and snow threatens.
N.B.--See that your husband or brother has a similar outfit, or he will
borrow yours.

The sleeping bags should be separated and dried either by sun or fire
every other day.

_Always keep all your sleeping things together in your bed roll_, and
your husband's things together in his bed bundle. It will save you many a
sigh and weary hunt in the dark and cold. The tent and such things, you
can afford to leave to your guide or to luck. It included the questions
of impressment, the fisheries, the boundaries, and indemnity for slaves.
The commissioners were supported by a temper of the American people
different from that which prevailed when Jay and Gallatin respectively
undertook the delicate work of negotiation in 1794 and 1814. A compromise
was arrived at, which was signed on October 20, 1818. The articles
on maritime rights and impressment were set aside. A convention was made
for ten years in regard to the fisheries, the northwest boundary, and
other points, and the commercial convention of 1815 was renewed. The
English claim to the navigation of the Mississippi was finally disposed
of, and the article concerning the West India trade was referred to the
President. The arrangement of the fishery question disturbed Mr. Gallatin,
who found himself compelled to sign an agreement which left the United
States in a worse situation in that respect than before the war of 1812.
But as the British courts would certainly uphold the construction by
their government of the treaty of 1783, our vessels, when seized, would
be condemned and a collision would immediately ensue. This, and the critical
condition of our Spanish relations, left no choice between concession
and war.

A short time afterward Lord Castlereagh and the Duke of Wellington expressed
friendly dispositions, and the mooted points of impressment and the
West India trade were considered by them to be near an arrangement.

The right of British armed vessels to examine American crews was abandoned
in the convention itself.

In July, 1818, the capture of Fort St. Mark and the occupation of
Pensacola in Florida by General Jackson made some stir in the quiet
waters of our foreign diplomacy. Uncertain as to whether the act would be
disavowed or justified by the American government, Mr. Gallatin explained
to the European ministers that the forcible occupation of the Spanish
province was an act of self-defence and protection against the Indians,
but Richelieu replied that the United States "had adopted the game laws
and pursued in foreign ground what was started in its own." Yet, to the
astonishment of Mr.

Gallatin, Richelieu was moderate and friendly in language, and
urged a speedy amicable arrangement of differences with Spain, in
whose affairs France took an interest, and who had asked her good
offices.

But Gallatin at once rejected any idea that the United States would
join France in any mediation between Spain and her revolted colonies.

It seems rather singular that, to the suggestion that a Spanish prince
might be sent over to America as an independent monarch, Gallatin
contented himself with expressing a doubt as to the efficacy of
such a course to preserve their independence. Mr.
Adams was informed that public recognition of the independence of the
insurgent colony of Buenos Ayres would shock the feelings and
prejudices of the French ministers, but that notwithstanding this displeasure,
France would not join Spain in a war on this account. England, however,
would see such a war without regret, and privateers under Spanish commissions
would instantly be fitted out, both in France and England.
Under the existing convention with Great Britain three hundred American
vessels arrived at Liverpool in the first nine months of 1818 from the
United States and only thirty English, an advantage to the United
States which war would at once destroy.

Russia also was displeased with the recognition of the independence of
the Spanish colonies. At the Congress of Aix la Chapelle various plans of
mediation were proposed, but England refusing to engage to break off
all commercial relations with such of the insurgent colonies as should
reject the proposals agreed to, the whole project was abandoned. An agreement
between the five great powers for the suppression of the slave trade was
also proposed at this Congress, but France declined to recognize the
right to visit French vessels in time of peace, and Russia making a similar
declaration, this plan also fell to the ground, and even an association
against the exactions of the Barbary powers was prevented by
jealousy of the naval preponderance of Great Britain.

While Mr.
A hair net is also useful.

Then you must not forget a rubber bath tub, a rubber wash basin, sponge,
towels, soap, and toilet articles generally, including camphor ice for
chapped lips and pennyroyal vaseline salve for insect bites. A brown
linen case is invaluable to hold all these toilet necessaries, so that
you can find them quickly. A sewing kit should be supplied, a flask of
whiskey, and a small "first-aid" outfit; a bottle of Perry Davis pain
killer or Pond's extract; but no more bottles than must be, as they are
almost sure to be broken. In your husband's box, ammunition takes the
place of toilet articles. I shall pass over the guns with the bare
mention that I use a 30.30 Winchester, smokeless. For railroad purposes
all this outfit for two goes into two trunks and a box--one trunk for all
the bedding and night things: the other for all the clothing, guns,
ammunition, eating things, and incidentals. The box holds the saddles,
bridles, and horse things.

In a pack train, the bed-rolls, weighing about fifty pounds each, go on
either side of one horse, and the telescopes on each side of another
horse--in both cases not a full load, and leaving room on the top of the
pack for a tent and other camp things. The saddles, of course, go on the
saddle horses. The cost of such an outfit, in New York, is about two
hundred dollars each; but it lasts for years and brings you in large
returns in health and consequent happiness.

I am willing to wager my horsehair rope (specially designed for keeping
off snakes) that a summer in the Rockies would enable you to cheat time
of at least two years, and you would come home and join me in the ranks
of converts from the usual summer sort of thing. Will you try it? If you
do, how you will pity your unfortunate friends who have never known what
it is to sleep on the south side of a sage brush, and honestly say in the
morning, "It is wonderful how well I am feeling."

But to begin:--


III.

THE FIRST PLUNGE OF THE WOMAN TENDERFOOT.


It was about midnight in the end of August when Nimrod and I tumbled off
the train at Market Lake, Idaho. Next morning, after a comfortable
night's rest at the "hotel," our rubber beds, sleeping bags, saddles,
guns, clothing, and ourselves were packed into a covered wagon, drawn by
four horses, and we started for Jackson's Hole in charge of a driver who
knew the road perfectly. Current business and the more general and important
duties of the office do not permit me to learn the lesser details, but
incidentally and by degrees. Until I know them all I dare not touch
the machine." One of the acquirements which he considered indispensable
for a secretary of the treasury was a "thorough knowledge of
book-keeping."

The recollection of his persistent demands for information from Hamilton
and Wolcott during his congressional career would have stung the conscience
of an ordinary man.The
history of our brief stay there belongs properly to the old torture days
of the Inquisition, for the Mormon's possessions of living creatures
were many, and his wives and children were the least of them.

