"Stop!" said Dr. Butterfield. "Don't you ever buy newspapers?"


CHAPTER III.

A GROWLER SOOTHED.


Givemfits said to Dr. Butterfield, "You asked me last evening if I ever
bought newspapers. I reply, Yes, and write for them too.

"But I see their degeneracy. Once you could believe nearly all they said;
now he is a fool who believes a tenth part of it. There is the New York
'Scandalmonger,' and the Philadelphia 'Prestidigitateur,' and the Boston
'Prolific,' which do nothing but hoodwink and confound the public mind. Ten
dollars will get a favorable report of a meeting, or as much will get it
caricatured. There is a secret spring behind almost every column. It
depends on what the editor had for supper the night before whether he wants
Foster hung or his sentence commuted. If the literary man had toast and
tea, as weak as this before me, he sleeps soundly, and next day says in his
columns that Foster ought not to be executed; he is a good fellow, and the
clergymen who went to Albany to get him pardoned were engaged in a holy
calling, and their congregations had better hold fast of them lest they go
up like Elijah. But if the editor had a supper at eleven, o'clock at night
of scallops fried in poor lard, and a little too much bourbon, the next day
he is headachy, and says Foster, the scalawag, ought to be hung, or beaten
to death with his own car-hook, and the ministers who went to Albany to get
him pardoned might better have been taking tea with some of the old ladies.
I have been behind the scenes and know all about it, and must admit that I
have done some of the bad work myself. I have on my writing-stand thirty
or forty books to discuss as a critic, and the column must be made up. Do
you think I take time to read the thirty or forty books? No. I first take a
dive into the index, a second dive into the preface, a third dive into the
four hundredth page, the fourth dive into the seventieth page, and then
seize my pen and do up the whole job in fifteen minutes. I make up my mind
to like the book or not to like it, according as I admire or despise the
author. But the leniency or severity of my article depends on whether the
room is cold and my rheumatism that day is sharp or easy. Speaking of these
things reminds me that the sermon which the Right Reverend Bishop
Goodenough preached last Sunday, on 'Growth in Grace,' was taken down and
brought to our office by a reporter who fell over the door-sill of the
sanctum so drunk we had to help him up and fish in his pockets for the
bishop's sermon on holiness of heart and life, which we were sure was
somewhere about him."

"Tut! tut!" cried Dr. Butterfield. "I think, Mr. Givemfits, you are
entirely mistaken. (The doctor all the while stirring the sugar in his
cup.) I think the printing-press is a mighty agency for the world's
betterment. If I were not a minister, I would be an editor. There are
Bohemians in the newspaper profession, as in all others, but do not
denounce the entire apostleship for the sake of one Judas. "I have heard of
it," said the Earl, "and Dr. Jones would demonstrate to your Grace that
it is but a superstition of the vulgar regarding a natural
phenomenon."
"Yea, my Lord," said the smith, looking up from the horse's foot; "'tis the
trade of yonder philosophers to gainsay whatever honest folk believed
before them. They'll deny next that hens lay eggs, or blight rots wheat.
My good wife speaks but plain truth, and we have seen it o'er and o'er
again."
"What have you seen, good man?" asked Mary eagerly, and ready answer was
made by the couple, who had acquired some cultivation of speech and
manners by their wayside occupation, and likewise as cicerones to the
spring.

"Seen, quoth the lady?" said the smith. "Why, he that is a true man and
hath a true maid can quaff a draught as deep as his gullet can hold--or
she that is true and hath a true love--but let one who hath a flaw in the
metal, on the one side or t'other, stoop to drink, and the water shrinks
away so as there's not the moistening of a lip."
"Ay: the ladies may laugh," added his wife, "but 'tis soothfast for all
that."
"Hast proved it, good dame?" asked the Queen archly, for the pair were still
young and well-looking enough to be jested with.

"Ay! have we not, madam?" said the dame. "Was not my man yonder, Rob, the
tinker's son, whom my father and brethren, the smiths down yonder at Buxton,
thought but scorn of, but we'd taken a sup together at the Ebbing Well,
and it played neither of us false, so we held out against 'em all,
and when they saw there was no help for it, they gave Bob the second best
anvil and bellows for my portion, and here we be."
"Living witnesses to the Well," said the Queen merrily. "How say you, my
Lord? I would fain see this marvel. Master Curll, will you try
the venture?"
"I fear it not, madam," said the secretary, looking at the blushing
Barbara.

Objections did not fail to arise from the Earl as to the difficulties
of the path and the lateness of the hour but Bob Smith, perhaps
wilfully, discovered another of my Lord's horseshoes to be in a
perilous state, and his good wife, Dame Emmott, offered to conduct
the ladies by so good a path that they might think themselves on
the Queen's Walk at Buxton itself.

Lord Shrewsbury, finding himself a prisoner, was obliged to yield compliance,
and leaving Sir Andrew Melville, with the grooms and falconers, in charge
of the horses, the Queen, the Earl, Cicely, Mary Seaton, Barbara
Mowbray, the two secretaries, and Richard Talbot and young Diccon, started
on the walk, together with Dr. Bourgoin, her physician, who was eager
to investigate the curiosity, and make it a subject of debate
with Dr. Jones.

The path was a beautiful one, through rocks and brushwood, mountain ash
bushes showing their coral berries amid their feathery leaves, golden
and white stars of stonecrop studding every coign of vantage, and
in more level spots the waxy bell-heather beginning to come into blossom.
Still it was rather over praise to call it as smooth as the
carefully-levelled and much-trodden Queen's path at Buxton, considering
that it ascended steeply all the way, and made the solemn, much-enduring
Earl pant for breath; but the Queen, her rheumatics for the time
entirely in abeyance, bounded on with the mountain step learned in
early childhood, and closely followed the brisk Emmott.

The last ascent was a steep pull, taking away the disposition to
speak, and at its summit Mary stood still holding out one hand,
with a finger of the other on her lips as a sign of silence to the
rest of the suite and to Emmott, who stood flushed and angered; for
what she esteemed her lawful province seemed to have been invaded
from the other side of the country.

They were on the side of the descent from the moorlands connected
with the Peak, on a small esplanade in the midst of which lay a
deep clear pool, with nine small springs or fountains discharging
themselves, under fern and wild rose or honeysuckle, into its basin.

Steps bad been cut in the rock leading to the verge of the pool, and on the
lowest of these, with his back to the new-comers, was kneeling a young man,
his brown head bare, his short cloak laid aside, so that his well-knit
form could be seen; the sword and spurs that clanked against the rock, as
well as the whole fashion and texture of his riding-dress, showing him to
be a gentleman.

"We shall see the venture made," whispered Mary to her daughter, who, in
virtue of youth and lightness of foot, had kept close behind her.
Grasping the girl's arm and smiling, she heard the young man's voice cry aloud
to the echoes of the rock, "Cis!" then stoop forward and plunge face and
head into the clear translucent water.

"Good luck to a true lover!"

The
rule worked well for the parsonage, but rather badly for the neighbor,
because on our side of the fence we had just begun to keep house, and
needed to borrow everything, while we had nothing to lend, except a few
sermons, which the neighbor never tried to borrow, from the fact that she
had enough of them on Sundays. There is no danger that your neighbor will
burn a hole in your new brass kettle if you have none to lend. It will
excite no surprise to say that we had an interest in all that happened on
the other side of the parsonage fence, and that any injury inflicted on so
kind a woman would rouse our sympathy.

On the wintry morning of which we speak our neighbor had been making
ice-cream; but there being some defect in the machinery, the cream had not
sufficiently congealed, and so she set the can of the freezer containing
the luxury on her back steps, expecting the cold air would completely
harden it. What was our dismay to see that our dog Carlo, on whose early
education we were expending great care, had taken upon himself the office
of ice-cream inspector, and was actually busy with the freezer! We hoisted
the window and shouted at him, but his mind was so absorbed in his
undertaking he did not stop to listen. Carlo was a greyhound, thin, gaunt
and long-nosed, and he was already making his way on down toward the bottom
of the can. His eyes and all his head had disappeared in the depths of the
freezer. Indeed, he was so far submerged that when he heard us, with quick
and infuriate pace, coming up close behind him, he could not get his head
out, and so started with the encumbrance on his head, in what direction he
knew not. No dog was ever in a more embarrassing position--freezer to the
right of him, freezer to the left of him, freezer on the top of him,
freezer under him.

So, thoroughly blinded, he rushed against the fence then against the side
of the house, then against a tree. He barked as though he thought he might
explode the nuisance with loud sound, but the sound was confined in so
strange a speaking-trumpet that he could not have known his own voice. His
way seemed hedged up. Fright and anger and remorse and shame whirled him
about without mercy.

A feeling of mirthfulness, which sometimes takes me on most inappropriate
occasions, seized me, and I sat down on the ground, powerless at the moment
when Carlo most needed help. If I only could have got near enough, I would
have put my foot on the freezer, and, taking hold of the dog's tail,
dislodged him instantly; but this I was not permitted to do. At this stage
of the disaster my neighbor appeared with a look of consternation, her
cap-strings flying in the cold wind. I tried to explain, but the aforesaid
untimely hilarity hindered me. All I could do was to point at the flying
freezer and the adjoining dog and ask her to call off her freezer, and,
with assumed indignation, demand what she meant by trying to kill my
greyhound.

The poor dog's every attempt at escape only wedged himself more thoroughly
fast. But after a while, in time to save the dog, though not to save the
ice-cream, my neighbor and myself effected a rescue. Edwin Landseer, the
great painter of dogs and their friends, missed his best chance by not
being there when the parishioner took hold of the freezer and the pastor
seized the dog's tail, and, pulling mightily in opposite directions, they
each got possession of their own property.

Carlo was cured of his love for luxuries, and the sight of the freezer on
the back steps till the day of his death would send him howling away.

Carlo found, as many people have found, that it is easier to get into
trouble than to get out. Nothing could be more delicious than while he was
eating his way in, but what must have been his feelings when he found it
impossible to get out! While he was stealing the freezer the freezer stole
him.

Lesson for dogs and men! "Come in!" says the gray spider to the house-fly;
"I have entertained a great many flies. I have plenty of room, fine meals
and a gay life. Walk on this suspension bridge. Give me your hand. Come in,
my sweet lady fly. These walls are covered with silk, and the tapestry is
gobelin. I am a wonderful creature. I have eight eyes, and of course can
see your best interest. Philosophers have written volumes about my antennae
and cephalothorax." House-fly walks gently in. The web rocks like a cradle
in the breeze. The house-fly feels honored to be the guest of such a big
spider. We all have regard for big bugs. "But what is this?" cries the fly,
pointing to a broken wing, "and this fragment of an insect's foot. There
must have been a murder here! Let me go back!" "Ha! ha!" says the spider,
"the gate is locked, the drawbridge is up. I only contracted to bring you
in. I cannot afford to let you out. Take a drop of this poison, and it will
quiet your nerves. I throw this hook of a fang over your neck to keep you
from falling off." Word went back to the house-fly's family, and a choir of
great green-bottled insects sang this psalm at the funeral:

  "An unfortunate fly a-visiting went,
  And in a gossamer web found himself pent."

The first five years of a dissipated life are comparatively easy, for it is
all down hill; but when the man wakes up and finds his tongue wound with
blasphemies, and his eyes swimming in rheum, and the antennae of vice
feeling along his nerves, and the spiderish poison eating through his very
life, and, he resolves to return, he finds it hard traveling, for it is up
hill, and the fortresses along the road open on him their batteries. We go
into sin, hop, skip and jump; we come out of it creeping on all fours.

Let flies and dogs and men keep out of mischief. It is smooth all the way
there, and rough all the way back. It is ice-cream for Carlo clear down to
the bottom of the can, but afterward it is blinded eyes and sore neck and
great fright. It is only eighteen inches to go into the freezer; it is
three miles out. For Robert Burns it is rich wine and clapping hands and
carnival all the way going to Edinburgh; but going back, it is worn-out
body, and lost estate, and stinging conscience, and broken heart, and a
drunkard's grave.

Better moderate our desires. Carlo had that morning as good a breakfast as
any dog need to have. It was a law of the household that he should be well
fed. Had he been satisfied with bread and meat, all would have been well.
But he sauntered out for luxuries. He wanted ice-cream. He got it, but
brought upon his head the perils and damages of which I have written. As
long as we have reasonable wants we get on comfortably, but it is the
struggle after luxuries that fills society with distress, and populates
prisons, and sends hundreds of people stark mad. Dissatisfied with a plain
house, and ordinary apparel, and respectable surroundings, they plunge
their head into enterprises and speculations from which they have to sneak
out in disgrace. Thousands of men have sacrificed honor and religion for
luxuries, and died with the freezer about their ears.

Young Catchem has one horse, but wants six. Lives in a nice house on
Thirtieth street, but wants one on Madison Square. Has one beautiful wife,
but wants four. Owns a hundred thousand dollars of Erie stock, but wants a
million. Plunges his head into schemes of all sorts, eats his way to the
bottom of the can till he cannot extricate himself, and constables, and
sheriffs, and indignant society, which would have said nothing had he been
successful, go to pounding him because he cannot get his head out.

Our poor old Carlo is dead now. We all cried when we found that he would
never frisk again at our coming, nor put up his paw against us. But he
lived long enough to preach the sermon about caution and contentment of
which I have been the stenographer.


CHAPTER V.

OLD GAMES REPEATED.


We tarried longer in the dining-room this evening than usual, and the
children, losing their interest in what we were saying got to playing all
about us in a very boisterous way, but we said nothing, for it is the
evening hour, and I think it keeps one fresh to have these things going on
around us. Indeed, we never get over being boys and girls. The good,
healthy man sixty years of age is only a boy with added experience. A woman
is only an old girl. Summer is but an older spring. August is May in its
teens. We shall be useful in proportion as we keep young in our feelings.
There is no use for fossils except in museums and on the shelf. I like
young old folks.

Indeed, we all keep doing over what we did in childhood. You thought that
long ago you got through with "blind-man's-buff," and "hide-and-seek," and
"puss in the corner," and "tick-tack-to," and "leap-frog," but all our
lives are passed in playing those old games over again.

You say, "What a racket those children make in the other room! When Squire
Jones' boys come over to spend the evening with our children, it seems as
if they would tear the house down." "Father, be patient!" the wife says;
"we once played 'blind-man's-buff' ourselves." Sure enough, father is
playing it now, if he only knew it. Much of our time in life we go about
blindfolded, stumbling over mistakes, trying to catch things that we miss,
while people stand round the ring and titter, and break out with
half-suppressed laughter, and push us ahead, and twitch the corner of our
eye-bandage. After a while we vehemently clutch something with both hands,
and announce to the world our capture; the blindfold is taken from our
eyes, and, amid the shouts of the surrounding spectators, we find we have,
after all, caught the wrong thing. What is that but "blind-man's buff" over
again?

You say, "Jenny and Harry, go to bed. It seems so silly for you to sit
there making two parallel lines perpendicular, and two parallel lines
horizontal, and filling up the blanks with crosses and o's, and then crying
out 'tick-tack-to.'" My dear man, you are doing every day in business just
what your children are doing in the nursery. You find it hard to get things
into a line. You have started out for worldly success. You get one or two
things fixed but that is not what you want. After a while you have had two
fine successes. You say, "If I can have a third success, I will come out
ahead." But somebody is busy on the same slate, trying to hinder you
getting the game. You mark; he marks. I think you will win. To the first
and second success which you have already gained you add the third, for
which you have long been seeking. The game is yours, and you clap your
hands, and hunch your opponent in the side, and shout,

  "Tick-tack-to,
  Three in a row."

The funniest play that I ever joined in at school, and one that sets me
a-laughing now as I think of it so I can hardly write, is "leap-frog." It
is unartistic and homely. It is so humiliating to the boy who bends himself
over and puts his hands down on his knees, and it is so perilous to the boy
who, placing his hands on the stooped shoulders, attempts to fly over. But
I always preferred the risk of the one who attempted the leap rather than
the humiliation of the one who consented to be vaulted over. It was often
the case that we both failed in our part and we went down together. For
this Jack Snyder carried a grudge against me and would not speak, because
he said I pushed him down a-purpose. But I hope he has forgiven me by this
time, for he has been out as a missionary. Indeed, if Jack will come this
way, I will right the wrong of olden time by stooping down in my study and
letting him spring over me as my children do.

Almost every autumn I see that old-time schoolboy feat repeated. Mr.
So-and-so says, "You make me governor and I will see that you get to be
senator. Make me mayor and I will see that you become assessor. Get me the
office of street-sweeper and you shall have one of the brooms. You stoop
down and let me jump over you, and then I will stoop down and let you jump
over me. Elect me deacon and you shall be trustee. You write a good thing
about me and I will write a good thing about you." The day of election in
Church or State arrives. A man once very upright in his principles and
policy begins to bend. You cannot understand it. He goes down lower and
lower, until he gets his hands away down on his knees. Then a spry
politician or ecclesiastic comes up behind him, puts his hand on the bowed
strategist and springs clear over into some great position. Good thing to
have so good a man in a prominent place. But after a while he himself
begins to bend. Everybody says, "What is the matter now? It cannot be
possible that he is going down too." Oh yes! Turn-about is fair play. Jack
Snyder holds it against me to this day, because, after he had stooped down
to let me leap over him, I would not stoop down to let him leap over me.
One half the strange things in Church and State may be accounted for by the
fact that, ever since Adam bowed down so low as to let the race, putting
its hands on him, fly over into ruin, there has been a universal and
perpetual tendency to political and ecclesiastical "leap-frog." In one
sense, life is a great "game of ball." We all choose sides and gather into
denominational and political parties. We take our places on the ball
ground. Some are to pitch; they are the radicals. Some are to catch; they
are the conservatives. Some are to strike; they are those fond of polemics
and battle. Some are to run; they are the candidates. There are four
hunks--youth, manhood, old age and death. Some one takes the bat, lifts it
and strikes for the prize and misses it, while the man who was behind
catches it and goes in. This man takes his turn at the bat, sees the flying
ball of success, takes good aim and strikes it high, amid the clapping of
all the spectators. We all have a chance at the ball. Some of us run to all
the four hunks, from youth to manhood, from manhood to old age, from old
age to death. At the first hunk we bound with uncontrollable mirth; coming
to the second, we run with a slower but stronger tread; coming to the
third, our step is feeble; coming to the fourth, our breath entirely gives
out. We throw down the bat on the black hunk of death, and in the evening
catchers and pitchers go home to find the family gathered and the food
prepared. So may we all find the candles lighted, and the table set, and
the old folks at home.


CHAPTER VI.

THE FULL-BLOODED COW.


We never had any one drop in about six o'clock p.m. whom we were more glad
to see than Fielding, the Orange County farmer. In the first place, he
always had a good appetite, and it did not make much difference what we had
to eat. He would not nibble about the end of a piece of bread, undecided as
to whether he had better take it, nor sit sipping his tea as though the
doctor had ordered him to take only ten drops at a time, mixed with a
little sugar and hot water. Perpetual contact with fresh air and the fields
and the mountains gave him a healthy body, while the religion that he
learned in the little church down by the mill-dam kept him in healthy
spirits. Fielding keeps a great drove of cattle and has an overflowing
dairy. As we handed him the cheese he said, "I really believe this is of my
own making." "Fielding," I inquired, "how does your dairy thrive, and have
you any new stock on your farm? Come give us a little touch of the
country." He gave me a mischievous look and said, "I will not tell you a
word until you let me know all about that full-blooded cow, of which I have
heard something. You need not try to hide that story any longer." So we
yielded to his coaxing. It was about like this:

The man had not been able to pay his debts. The mortgage on the farm had
been foreclosed. Day of sale had come. The sheriff stood on a box reading
the terms of vendue. All payments to be made in six months. The auctioneer
took his place. The old man and his wife and the children all cried as the
piano, and the chairs, and the pictures, and the carpets, and the bedsteads
went at half their worth. When the piano went, it seemed to the old people
as if the sheriff were selling all the fingers that had ever played on it;
and when the carpets were struck off, I think father and mother thought of
the little feet that had tramped it; and when the bedstead was sold, it
brought to mind the bright, curly heads that had slept on it long before
the dark days had come, and father had put his name on the back of a note,
signing his own death warrant. The next thing to being buried alive is to
have the sheriff sell you out when you have been honest and have tried
always to do right. There are so many envious ones to chuckle at your fall,
and come in to buy your carriage, blessing the Lord that the time has come
for you to walk and for them to ride.

But to us the auction reached its climax of interest when we went to the
barn. We were spending our summers in the country, and must have a cow.
There were ten or fifteen sukies to be sold. There were reds, and piebalds,
and duns, and browns, and brindles, short horns, long horns, crumpled horns
and no horns. But we marked for our own a cow that was said to be
full-blooded, whether Alderney, or Durham, or Galloway, or Ayrshire, I will
not tell lest some cattle fancier feel insulted by what I say; and if there
is any grace that I pride myself on, it is prudence and a determination
always to say smooth things. "How much is bid for this magnificent,
full-blooded cow?" cried the auctioneer. "Seventy-five dollars," shouted
some one. I made it eighty. He made it ninety. Somebody else quickly made
it a hundred. After the bids had risen to one hundred and twenty-five
dollars, I got animated, and resolved that I would have that cow if it
took my last cent. "One hundred and forty dollars," shouted my opponent.
The auctioneer said it was the finest cow he had ever sold; and not knowing
much about vendues, of course I believed him. It was a good deal of money
for a minister to pay, but then I could get the whole matter off my hands
by giving "a note." In utter defiance of everything I cried out, "One
hundred and fifty dollars!" "Going at that," said the auctioneer. "Going at
that! once! twice! "I only put on this garb that I might gaze once more
on the most divine and persecuted of queens, and with some hope likewise
that I might win a word with her who deigned once to be my
playmate.
Lady, I know the truth respecting you."
"Do you in very deed?"We hired two boys to drive her home while we rode in a carriage. No sooner
had we started than the cow showed what turned out to be one of her
peculiarities, great speed of hoof. She left the boys, outran my horse,
jumped the fence, frightened nearly to death a group of schoolchildren, and
by the time we got home we all felt as if we had all day been put on a
fox-chase.

We never had any peace with that cow. She knew more tricks than a juggler.
She could let down any bars, open any gate, outrun any dog and ruin the
patience of any minister. We had her a year, and yet she never got over
wanting to go to the vendue. Once started out of the yard, she was bound to
see the sheriff. We coaxed her with carrots, and apples, and cabbage, and
sweetest stalks, and the richest beverage of slops, but without avail.

As a milker she was a failure. "Mike," who lived just back of our place,
would come in at nights from his "Kerry cow," a scraggly runt that lived on
the commons, with his pail so full he had to carry it cautiously lest it
spill over. But after our full-blooded had been in clover to her eyes all
day, Bridget would go out to the barnyard, and tug and pull for a supply
enough to make two or three custards. I said, "Bridget, you don't know how
to milk. Let me try." "Dost not know her, Langston? She is her sacred
Majesty's own born, true, and faithful subject, the Lady--"
"Hush, my friend; thou art ever over outspoken with thy names," returned
the other, evidently annoyed at Babington's imprudence.

She had, among other bad things, a morbid appetite. Notwithstanding we gave
her the richest herbaceous diet, she ate everything she could put her mouth
on. She was fond of horse blankets and articles of human clothing. I found
her one day at the clothes line, nearly choked to death, for she had
swallowed one leg of something and seemed dissatisfied that she could not
get down the other. The most perfect nuisance that I ever had about my
place was that full-blooded.

Having read in our agricultural journals of cows that were slaughtered
yielding fourteen hundred pounds neat weight, we concluded to sell her to
the butcher. We set a high price upon her and got it--that is, we took a
note for it, which is the same thing. My bargain with the butcher was the
only successful chapter in my bovine experiences. The only taking-off in
the whole transaction was that the butcher ran away, leaving me nothing but
a specimen of poor chirography, and I already had enough of that among my
manuscripts.

"Even as you will, most devoted cavalier," said Mary, drawing back; "we will
be content to play the part of the pale ghosts of the unburied dead a
little longer. See, Mary, the boat sinks down with him and his mortal
flesh!Do not depend too much on the high-sounding name of Durham or Devon. As
with animals, so with men. Only one President ever had a President for a
son. Let every cow make her own name, and every man achieve his own
position. It is no great credit to a fool that he had a wise grandfather.
Many an Ayrshire and Hereford has had the hollow-horn and the foot-rot.
Both man and animal are valuable in proportion as they are useful. "Mike's"
cow beat my full-blooded.


CHAPTER VII.

THE DREGS IN LEATHERBACKS' TEA-CUP.


We have an earlier tea this evening than usual, for we have a literary
friend who comes about this time of the week, and he must go home to retire
about eight o'clock. His nervous system is so weak that he must get three
or four hours sleep before midnight; otherwise he is next day so cross and
censorious he scalps every author he can lay his hand on. As he put his
hand on the table with an indelible blot of ink on his thumb and two
fingers, which blot he had not been able to wash off, I said, "Well, my old
friend Leatherbacks, what books have you been reading to-day?"

He replied, "I have been reading 'Men and Things.' Some books touch only
the head and make us think; other books touch only the heart and make us
feel; here and there one touches us under the fifth rib and makes us laugh;
but the book on 'Men and Things,' by the Rev. Dr. C.S. Henry, touched me
all over. I have felt better ever since. I have not seen the author but
once since the old university days, when he lectured us and pruned us and
advised us and did us more good than almost any other instructor we ever
had. Oh, those were grand days! No better than the present, for life grows
brighter to me all the time; but we shall not forget the quaint, strong,
brusque professor who so unceremoniously smashed things which he did not
like, and shook, the class with merriment or indignation. yes!" cried Cicely
hastily, scarcely knowing what passed her lips, and only anxious to escape
from that gleaming eye of Langston, which had twice before filled
her with a nameless sense of the necessity of terrified obedience. "Oh!
let me go. I hear my father's voice."

She sprang forward with a cry between joy and terror, and darted up to Richard
Talbot, while Savage, the man who looked most entirely unlike a disguised
gentleman, stepped forward, and in a rough, north country dialect,
averred that the young gentlewoman had lost her way.I have read all the stuff for the last three years published about
Abraham Lincoln's unfair courtships and blank infidelity. The protracted
discussion has made only one impression upon me, and that is this: How safe
it is to slander a dead man! You may say what you will in print about him,
he brings no rebutting evidence. I have heard that ghosts do a great many
things, but I never heard of one as printing a book or editing a newspaper
to vindicate himself. Look out how you vilify a living man, for he may
respond with pen, or tongue, or cowhide; but only get a man thoroughly dead
(that is, so certified by the coroner) and have a good, heavy tombstone put
on the top of him, and then you may say what you will with impunity.

"But I have read somewhere in an old book that there is a day coming when
all wrongs will be righted; and I should not wonder if then the dead were
vindicated, and all the swine who have uprooted graveyards should, like
their ancestors of Gadara, run down a steep place into the sea and get
choked. Art afraid to dare the black river?"
"No, madam, not with you on the other side, and my father to follow me."
"Well said. Let the maiden follow next after me. Or mayhap Master Eyre
should come next, then the young lady.With this last sentence my friend Leatherbacks gave a violent gesture that
upset his cup and left the table-cloth sopping wet.

"By the way," said he, "have you heard that Odger is coming?"

"What!" said I. He continued without looking up, for he was at that moment
running his knife, not over-sharp, through a lamb-chop made out of old
sheep. (Wife, we will have to change our butcher!) He continued with a
severity perhaps partly caused by the obstinacy of the meat: "I see in the
'Pall-Mall Budget' the startling intelligence that Mr. Odger is coming to
the United States on a lecturing expedition. Our American newspapers do not
seem, as yet, to have got hold of this news, but the tidings will soon fly,
and great excitement may be expected to follow."

Some unwise person might ask the foolish question, "Who is Odger?" "How is
the Queen to know of her friends if we name them not to her?"
"Are these her friends?" asked Cicely, looking round on the five figures
in the leathern coats and yeomen's heavy buskins and shoes, and especially
at the narrow face and keen pale eyes of Langston.A foreigner does not need more
than half as much brain or heart to do twice as well as an American, either
at preaching or lecturing. There is for many Americans a bewitchment in a
foreign brogue. I do not know but that he may have dined with the queen, or
have a few drops of lordly blood distributed through his arteries.

I notice, however, that much of this charm has been broken. I used to think
that all English lords were talented, till I heard one of them make the
only poor speech that was made at the opening meeting of the Evangelical
Alliance. Our lecturing committees would not pay very large prices next
year for Mr. Bradlaugh and Edmund Yates. Indeed, we expect that the time
will soon come when the same kind of balances will weigh Englishmen,
Scotchmen, Irishmen, Frenchmen and Americans.

