§ 19. The Presumption of some Singers is not to be borne with, who
expect that an whole _Orchestre_ should stop in the midst of a
well-regulated Movement, to wait for their ill-grounded Caprices,
learned by Heart, carried from one Theatre to another, and perhaps
stolen from some applauded female Singer, who had better Luck than
Skill, and whose Errors were excused in regard to her Sex.----Softly,
softly with your Criticism, says one; this, if you do not know it, is
called Singing after the _Mode_----Singing after the _Mode_?----I say,
you are mistaken. The stopping in the _Airs_ at every second and fourth,
and on all the sevenths and sixths of the Bass, was a bad Practice of
the ancient Masters, disapproved fifty Years ago by _Rivani_, called
_Ciecolino_,[61] who with invincible Reasons shewed the proper Places
for Embellishments, without begging Pauses. This Percept was approved by
several eminent Persons, among whom was Signer _Pistochi_,[62] the most
famous of our, and all preceding Times, who has made himself immortal,
by shewing the way of introducing Graces without transgressing against
Time. This Example alone, which is worth a Thousand (O my rever'd
_Moderns_!) should be sufficient to undeceive you. O beloved Herr Receiver,
and bridegroom! although wrapped in this robe you reached the shores
of the Tiber, the little hands of your present bride held you fast by the
extreme end of the train, and, however you might fiddle and fume, you
had to return within the magic influence of her beautiful eyes. And since
this is so, you two dear, foolish people, wrap yourselves both up in
this blessed robe, forget all the rest of the world, love like
turtle-doves, and be happy!"
Hardly had Herr Lionardo finished his speech when the other young
lady who had sung the song approached me, crowned me with a wreath of
fresh myrtle, and as she was arranging it, with her face close to my
own, archly sang--
"And therefore do I crown thee, And therefore love thee so, Because thou
oft hast moved me With the music of thy bow."
As she retreated a step or two, "Do you remember the robbers who shook
you down from the tree at night?" said she, courtesying, and giving
me so arch a glance that my heart danced within me. Thereupon,
without waiting for an answer, she walked around me. "Actually just
the same, without any Italian affectations! But no! look, look at his
fat pockets!" she exclaimed suddenly to the lovely Lady fair. "Violin,
linen, razor, portmanteau, everything stuffed together!" She turned me
all round as she spoke, and could scarcely say anything more for laughing.
Meanwhile, the lovely Lady fair was quite silent, and could hardly raise
her eyes for shame and confusion. It seemed to me that at heart
she was provoked at all this jesting talk. At last her eyes filled
with tears, and she hid her face on the breast of the other lady, who
first looked at her in surprise and then clasped her affectionately in
her arms.

I stood there as in a dream. The longer I looked at the strange
lady the more clearly I recognized her; she was in truth no other
than--the young painter, Herr Guido!
I did not know what to say, and was just about to question her,
when Herr Lionardo approached her and spoke in an undertone.Besides the Errors in keeping Time, there are other Reasons, why a
Student should not imitate the _modern_ Gentlemen in singing _Airs_,
since it plainly appears that all their Application now is to divide
and subdivide in such a Manner, that it is impossible to understand
either Words, Thoughts, or Modulation, or to distinguish one _Air_ from
another, they singing them all so much alike, that, in hearing of one,
you hear a Thousand.----And must the _Mode_ triumph? It was thought, not
many Years since, that in an Opera, one rumbling _Air_, full of
Divisions was sufficient for the most gurgling Singer to spend his
Fire[68]; but the Singers of the present Time are not of that Mind, but
rather, as if they were not satisfied with transforming them all with a
horrible Metamorphosis into so many Divisions, they, like Racers, run
full Speed, with redoubled Violence to their final Cadences, to make
Reparation for the Time they think they have lost during the Course of
the _Air_. In the following Chapter, on the tormented and tortured
Cadences, we shall shortly see the good Taste of the _Mode_; in the mean
while I return to the Abuses and Defects in _Airs_.

§ 21. I cannot positively tell, who that _Modern_ Composer, or that
ungrateful Singer was, that had the Heart to banish the delightful,
soothing, _Pathetick_ from _Airs_, as if no longer worthy of their
Commands, after having done them so long and pleasing Service. Whoever
he was, it is certain, he has deprived the Profession of its most
valuable Excellence. Ask all the Musicians in general, what their
Thoughts are of the _Pathetick_, they all agree in the same Opinion, (a
thing that seldom happens) and answer, that the _Pathetick_ is what is
most delicious to the Ear, what most sweetly affects the Soul, and is
the strongest Basis of Harmony. I alighted in the dark arbor, which was
named after me, and where they would be sure also this time to await me.
The mother met me, care-free and joyous. Mina sat there, pale and
lovely as the first snow which often in the autumn kisses the last
flowers and then instantly dissolves into bitter water. The
Forest-master went agitatedly to and fro, a written paper in his hand,
and appeared to force down many things in himself which painted
themselves with rapidly alternating flushes and paleness on his otherwise
immovable countenance. He came up to me as I entered, and with frequently
choked words begged to speak with me alone.

The path in which he invited me to follow him, led us toward an
open, sunny part of the garden.In former times divers _Airs_ were heard in the Theatre in this
delightful Manner, preceded and accompanied with harmonious and
well-modulated Instruments, that ravished the Senses of those who
comprehended the Contrivance and the Melody; and if sung by one of those
five or six eminent Persons abovementioned, it was then impossible for a
human Soul, not to melt into Tenderness and Tears from the violent
Motion of the Affections. Oh! powerful Proof to confound the idoliz'd
_Mode_! Are there in these Times any, who are moved with Tenderness, or
Sorrow?----No, (say all the Auditors) no; for, the continual singing of
the _Moderns_ in the _Allegro_ Stile, though when in Perfection That
deserves Admiration, yet touches very slightly one that hath a delicate
Ear. The Taste of the _Ancients_ was a Mixture of the _Lively_ and the
_Cantabile_ the Variety of which could not fail giving Delight; but the
_Moderns_ are so pre-possessed with Taste in _Mode_, that, rather than
comply with the former, they are contented to lose the greatest Part of
its Beauty. What rainbow-chasers these McKinleys, Wilsons, and J. P.
Joneses are!
Do they not see this country with its limitless resources? Do they not
see the surfeited millionaire, and the hungry laborer with his
starving dependents?But since I have presum'd to compare the most
celebrated Singers in both Stiles, pardon me if I conclude with saying,
that the _Moderns_ are arrived at the highest Degree of Perfection in
singing to the _Ear_; and that the _Ancients_ are inimitable in singing
to the _Heart_Not a God-like wisdom, nor the assumption of it, is needed to either
conceive a remedy for our present troubles, or to formulate laws
for its application.

Plain sense we most all have, let us use it, then, and we will have no
further use for either the bookworm or the logic chopper.

Confiscation.

I.
Running a republic under the economic laws of a monarchy must of
necessity result in producing the same conditions - great wealth
for some and great poverty for the rest.
