Produced by Suzanne Shell, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


                            THE HUMAN CHORD

                         BY ALGERNON BLACKWOOD

                                 1910


_To those who hear._


Chapter I


I

As a boy he constructed so vividly in imagination that he came to believe
in the living reality of his creations: for everybody and everything he
found names--real names. Inside him somewhere stretched immense
playgrounds, compared to which the hay-fields and lawns of his father's
estate seemed trivial: plains without horizon, seas deep enough to float
the planets like corks, and "such tremendous forests" with "trees like
tall pointed hilltops." He had only to close his eyes, drop his thoughts
inwards, sink after them himself, call aloud and--see.

His imagination conceived and bore--worlds; but nothing in these worlds
became alive until he discovered its true and living name. The name was
the breath of life; and, sooner or later, he invariably found it.

Once, having terrified his sister by affirming that a little man he had
created would come through her window at night and weave a peaked cap for
himself by pulling out all her hairs "that hadn't gone to sleep with the
rest of her body," he took characteristic measures to protect her from
the said depredations. He sat up the entire night on the lawn beneath
her window to watch, believing firmly that what his imagination had made
alive would come to pass.

She did not know this. On the contrary, he told her that the little man
had died suddenly; only, he sat up to make sure. And, for a boy of eight,
those cold and haunted hours must have seemed endless from ten o'clock to
four in the morning, when he crept back to his own corner of the night
nursery. He possessed, you see, courage as well as faith and imagination.

Yet the name of the little man was nothing more formidable than "Winky!"

"You might have known he wouldn't hurt you, Teresa," he said. "Any one
with that name would be light as a fly and awf'ly gentle--a regular dicky
sort of chap!"

"But he'd have pincers," she protested, "or he couldn't pull the hairs
out. Like an earwig he'd be. Ugh!"

"Not Winky! Never!" he explained scornfully, jealous of his offspring's
reputation. "He'd do it with his rummy little fingers."

"Then his fingers would have claws at the ends!" she insisted; for no
amount of explanation could persuade her that a person named Winky could
be nice and gentle, even though he were "quicker than a second." She
added that his death rejoiced her.

"But I can easily make another--such a nippy little beggar, and twice as
hoppy as the first. Only I won't do it," he added magnanimously, "because
it frightens you."

For to name with him was to create. He had only to run out some distance
into his big mental prairie, call aloud a name in a certain commanding
way, and instantly its owner would run up to claim it. Names described
souls. To learn the name of a thing or person was to know all about them
and make them subservient to his will; and "Winky" could only have been a
very soft and furry little person, swift as a shadow, nimble as a
mouse--just the sort of fellow who _would_ make a conical cap out of a
girl's fluffy hair ... and love the mischief of doing it.

And so with all things: names were vital and important. To address beings
by their intimate first names, beings of the opposite sex especially, was
a miniature sacrament; and the story of that premature audacity of Elsa
with Lohengrin never failed to touch his sense of awe. "What's in a
name?" for him, was a significant question--a question of life or death.
For to mispronounce a name was a bad blunder, but to name it wrongly was
to miss it altogether. Such a thing had no real life, or at best a
vitality that would soon fade. Adam knew that! And he pondered much in
his childhood over the difficulty Adam must have had "discovering" the
correct appellations for some of the queerer animals....

As he grew older, of course, all this faded a good deal, but he never
quite lost the sense of reality in names--the significance of a true
name, the absurdity of a false one, the cruelty of mispronunciation. One
day in the far future, he knew, some wonderful girl would come into his
life, singing her own true name like music, her whole personality
expressing it just as her lips framed the consonants and vowels--and he
would love her. His own name, ridiculous and hateful though it was, would
sing in reply. They would be in harmony together in the literal sense, as
necessary to one another as two notes in the same chord....

So he also possessed the mystical vision of the poet. What he
lacked--such temperaments always do--was the sense of proportion and the
careful balance that adjusts cause and effect. And this it is, no doubt,
that makes his adventures such "hard sayings." It becomes difficult to
disentangle what actually did happen from what conceivably might have
happened; what he thinks he saw from what positively _was_.

His early life--to the disgust of his Father, a poor country
squire--was a distressing failure. He missed all examinations, muddled
all chances, and finally, with £50 a year of his own, and no one to
care much what happened to him, settled in London and took any odd job
of a secretarial nature that offered itself. He kept to nothing for
long, being easily dissatisfied, and ever on the look out for the "job"
that might conceal the kind of adventure he wanted. Once the work of
the moment proved barren of this possibility, he wearied of it and
sought another. And the search seemed prolonged and hopeless, for the
adventure he sought was not a common kind, but something that should
provide him with a means of escape from a vulgar and noisy world that
bored him very much indeed. He sought an adventure that should announce
to him a new heaven and a new earth; something that should confirm, if
not actually replace, that inner region of wonder and delight he
reveled in as a boy, but which education and conflict with a prosaic
age had swept away from his nearer consciousness. He sought, that is,
an authoritative adventure of the soul.

To look at, one could have believed that until the age of twenty-five he
had been nameless, and that a committee had then sat upon the subject and
selected the sound best suited to describe him: Spinrobin--Robert. For,
had he never seen himself, but run into that inner prairie of his and
called aloud "Robert Spinrobin," an individual exactly resembling him
would surely have pattered up to claim the name.

He was slight, graceful, quick on his feet and generally alert; took
little steps that were almost hopping, and when he was in a hurry gave
him the appearance of "spinning" down the pavement or up the stairs;
always wore clothes of some fluffy material, with a low collar and
bright red tie; had soft pink cheeks, dancing grey eyes and loosely
scattered hair, prematurely thin and unquestionably like feathers. His
hands and feet were small and nimble. When he stood in his favorite
attitude with hands plunged deep in his pockets, coat-tails slightly
spread and flapping, head on one side and hair disordered, talking in
that high, twittering, yet very agreeable voice of his, it was
impossible to avoid the conclusion that here was--well--Spinrobin, Bobby
Spinrobin, "on the job."

For he took on any "job" that promised adventure of the kind he sought,
and the queerer the better. As soon as he found that his present
occupation led to nothing, he looked about for something new--chiefly in
the newspaper advertisements. Numbers of strange people advertised in the
newspapers, he knew, just as numbers of strange people wrote letters to
them; and Spinny--so he was called by those who loved him--was a diligent
student of the columns known as "Agony" and "Help wanted." Whereupon it
came about that he was aged twenty-eight, and out of a job, when the
threads of the following occurrence wove into the pattern of his life,
and "led to something" of a kind that may well be cause for question and
amazement.

It is pretty well known that researches by Matteucci, Du Bois-Reymond,
and others, have made us acquainted with the influence of electricity
and galvanism on the muscular system of animals, and that important
physiological effects have been attributed to this influence, more
than perhaps we are warranted in assuming in the present state of
our knowledge.

That an influence is exerted in some way, is clear from the difference
in our feelings in dry and wet weather: it has been supposed, however,
that the effects on the nervous system are not produced by an
accumulation of positive or of negative electricity, but by the
combination of the two producing dynamic electricity.

While these points are undergoing discussion, we have an opportunity
of bringing before our readers the results of investigations bearing on
the general question.

Most persons are aware of the fact, that a peculiar taste follows the
application of two different metals to the tongue in a popular galvanic
experiment. This taste is caused by the azotic acid formed from the
oxygen and azote of the atmosphere. An electric discharge, too,
is accompanied by a smell, which smell is due to the presence of what
is called ozone; and not long ago M. Schoenbein, of Basel, the inventor
of guncotton, discovered ozone as a principle in the oxygen of the
atmosphere; and it is considered to be the _active_ principle of
that universal constituent.

Later researches have brought out a striking analogy between the
properties of ozone and chlorine, and have led to conclusions as
to the dangerous effect which the former may produce, in certain
cases, on the organs of respiration.

Some idea of its energy may be formed from the fact, that mice perish
speedily in air which contains one six-thousandth of ozone. It
is always present in the atmosphere in a greater or lesser degree, in
direct relation with the amount of atmospheric electricity, and appears
to obey the same laws in its variations, finding its maximum in
winter and its minimum in summer.

Ozone, in scientific language, is described as 'a compound of oxygen
analogous to the peroxide of hydrogen, or, that it is oxygen in an
allotropic state--that is, with the capability of immediate and ready
action impressed upon it.' Besides being produced by electrical discharges
in the atmosphere, it can be obtained artificially by the passing of what
is called the electrical brush into the air from a moist wooden
point, or by electrolyzed water or phosphorus. The process, when the
latter substance is employed, is to put a small piece, clean
scraped, about half an inch long, into a large bottle which contains
just so much of water as to half cover the phosphorus, and then
closing the mouth slightly, to guard against combustion, to leave
it standing for a time in a temperature of about 60 degrees.

Ozone soon begins to be formed, as shewn by the rising of a light
column of smoke from the phosphorus, which, at the same time, becomes
luminous. In five or six hours, the quantity will be abundant, when the
bottle is to be emptied of its contents, washed out, and closed for use
and experiment.

Whichever way the ozone be produced, it is always identical in its properties;
and these are described as numerous and remarkable. Its odour is peculiar,
resembling that of chlorine, and, when diluted, cannot be distinguished
from what is called the electric smell. When largely diffused in
atmospheric air, it causes unpleasant sensations, makes respiration
difficult, and, by acting powerfully on the mucous membranes, produces
catarrhal effects; and as such air will kill small animals, it shews
that pure ozone must be highly injurious to the animal economy.

It is insoluble in water, is powerfully electromotive, and is most
strikingly energetic in numerous chemical agencies, its action
on nearly all metallic bodies being to carry them at once to the state
of peroxide, or to their highest point of oxidation; it changes sulphurets
into sulphates, instantaneously destroys several gaseous compounds, and
bleaches indigo, thus shewing its analogy with chlorine.

In proceeding to the account of his experiments, M.

Schoenbein shews, that gases can be produced by chemical means, which
exercise an oxidizing influence of a powerful nature, especially in their
physiological effects, even when diffused through the atmosphere
in very minute quantities: also, that owing to the immense number of
organic beings on the earth, their daily death and decomposition, an
enormous amount of gases is produced similar to those which can be
obtained by artificial means; and besides these, a quantity of
gaseous or volatile products, 'whose chemical nature,' as the author
observes, 'is as yet unknown, but of which we can easily admit
that some, at least, diffused through the air, even in very small
quantities, and breathed with it, exert a most deplorable action
on the animal organism.

Hence it follows, that the decomposition of organic matters ought
to be considered as one of the principal causes of the corruption
of the air by miasmatic substances.

Now, a continuous cause, and acting on so vast a scale, would necessarily
diffuse through the atmosphere a considerable mass of miasmatic
gases, and accumulate them till at length it would be completely
poisoned, and rendered incapable of supporting animal life, if nature
had not found the means of destroying these noxious matters in proportion
as they are produced.'
The question then arises: What are the means employed for this object? M.
Schoenbein believes that he has found it in the action of ozone, which
is continually formed by the electricity of the atmosphere, and is known
to be a most powerful agent of oxidation, causing serious modifications
of organic bodies, and, consequently, of their physiological action.
'To assure myself,' he pursues, 'that ozone destroys the miasma
arising from the decomposition of animal matters, I introduced into a
balloon containing about 130 pints of air, a piece of flesh weighing four
ounces, taken from a human corpse, and in a very advanced state of
putrefaction. I withdrew it after a minute; the air in the balloon
had acquired a strong and very repulsive odour, shewing that it was charged
with an appreciable quantity--at least for the smell--of miasm caused
by the putrefaction.

'To produce ozone, I introduced into the infected balloon a stick
of phosphorus an inch long, with water sufficient to half cover it.
At the same time, for the sake of comparison, I placed a similar quantity
of phosphorus and water in another balloon full of pure atmospheric air.
After some minutes, the reaction of ozone in the latter was most evidently
manifested, while no trace of it was yet apparent in the former,
which still gave off an odour of putrefaction. This, however, disappeared
completely at the end of ten or twelve minutes, and immediately
the reaction of the ozone was detected.'
The conclusion drawn from this experiment is, that the ozone destroyed
the miasm by oxidation, and could only make its presence evident
after the complete destruction of the noxious volatile substances.

This effect is more strikingly shewn by another experiment.

A balloon of similar capacity to the one above mentioned was charged as
strongly as possible with ozone, and afterwards washed with water.
The same piece of flesh was suspended within it; and the opening being
carefully closed, it was left inside for nine hours before the air
of the balloon presented the least odour of putrefaction. The air was
tested every thirty minutes by an ozonometer, and the proportion of ozone
found to be gradually diminishing; but as long as the paper of the
instrument exhibited the slightest trace of blue, there was no
smell, which only came on as the last signs of ozone disappeared.
Thus, all the miasm given off by the piece of flesh during nine
hours was completely neutralised by the ozone with which the balloon
had been impregnated, so small in quantity as to be but the 6000th
part of a gramme.

One balloon filled with ozonified air, would suffice to disinfect
540 balloons filled with miasmatic air. 'These considerations,'
says M. Schoenbein, 'shew us how little the miasma of the air are to
be appreciated by weight, even when they exist therein in a quantity
very sensible to the smell, and how small is the proportion of ozone
necessary to destroy the miasm produced by the putrefaction of
organic substances, and diffused through the atmosphere.'

The presence of ozone in any vessel or in the atmosphere, may be detected
by a test-paper which has been moistened with a solution composed of 1
part of pure iodide of potassium, 10 parts of starch, and 100 parts of
water, boiled together for a few moments. Paper so prepared turns
immediately blue when exposed to the action of ozone, the tint being
lighter or darker according to the quantity.
Schoenbein's ozonometer consists of 750 slips of dry bibulous paper prepared
in the manner described; and with a scale of tints and instructions,
sufficient to make observations on the ozone of the atmosphere twice a
day for a year. After exposure to the ozone, they require to be moistened
to bring out the colour.

M. Schoenbein continues: 'We must admit that the electric discharges
which take place incessantly in different parts of the atmosphere, and
causing therein a formation of ozone, purify the air by this means of
organic, or, more generally, oxidizable miasma; and that they have
thus the important office of maintaining it in a state of purity
suitable to animal life.

By means of atmospheric electricity, and, indirectly, nature thus attains
on a great scale the object that we sometimes seek to accomplish in a
limited space by fumigations with chlorine.

'Here, as in many other cases, we see nature effecting two different objects
at one stroke. For if the oxidizable miasma are destroyed by atmospheric
ozone, they, in turn, cause the latter to disappear, and we have seen
that it is itself a miasm. This is doubtless the reason why ozone does
not accumulate in the atmosphere in greater proportion than the oxidizable
miasma, notwithstanding the constant formation of one and the other.

'In all times, the idea has been held, that storms purify the air, and I
do not think that this opinion is ill-founded. We know, in fact, that
storms give rise to a more abundant production of ozone.

It is possible, and even probable, that sometimes, in particular
localities, there may not be a just relation between the ozone and
the oxidizable miasma in the air, and that the latter cannot be completely
destroyed.
Hence, in accordance with the chemical nature and physiological influence
of these miasma, they would exert a marked action on the animal economy,
and cause diseases among the greater number of those who breathe the
infected air. But numerous experiments prove that, as a rule, the air
contains free ozone, though in very variable proportions; from which
we may conclude that no oxidizable miasm--sulphuretted hydrogen, for
example--can exist in such an atmosphere, any more than it could
exist in air containing but a trace of chlorine.

'I do not know if it be true, as has been advanced by Mr Hunt and other
persons, that ozone is deficient in the atmospheric air when some
wide-spread malady, such as cholera, is raging.

In any case, it would be easy, by means of the prepared paper, to
determine the truth or fallacy of this opinion.

'There is one fact which should particularly engage the attention of
physicians and physiologists, which is, that, of all seasons, the
winter is distinguished by the greatest proportion of ozone; whence
it follows, that during that season the air contains least of
oxidizable miasma.

We can say, therefore, with respect to this class of miasma, that
the air is purer in winter than in summer.

'All my observations agree in shewing, that the proportion of ozone
in the air increases with the height; if this fact be general, as I am
disposed to believe, we must consider the upper regions of the atmosphere
as purer, with regard to oxidizable miasma, than the lower.

'The appearance of certain maladies--intermittent fever, for
example--appears to be connected with certain seasons and particular
geographical conditions.

It would be worth while to ascertain, by ozonometric observations, whether
these physiological phenomena have any relation whatever with the
proportion of ozone contained in the air in which they occur.

'Considering the obscurity which prevails as to the cause of the greater
part of diseases, and the great probability that many among them
owe their origin to the presence of chemical agents dispersed in
the atmosphere, it becomes the duty of medical men and physiologists,
who interest themselves in the progress of their science, to seize
earnestly all the means by which they may hope to arrive at more
exact notions upon the relations which exist between abnormal
physiological phenomena and external circumstances.'

Such is a summary of M. Schoenbein's views as communicated to the Medical
Society of Basel; and we the more readily accord them the publicity of
our columns, as, apart from the intrinsic value of the subject,
it is one which has for some time excited the interest of scientific
inquirers in this country.

During the late visitation of cholera, reports were frequently
spread that the atmosphere was deficient in ozone.

ENGLISH SISTERS OF CHARITY.

How much real good could yet be done in this old, full, struggling
world of ours, where so many among us have need of help, if each
in his or her small circle could manage just not to leave undone
some of the things that should be done.

Little more is wanting to effect this than the will, or perhaps the mere
suggestion. A high influence may at a time confer a considerable benefit;
but very humble means, systematically exerted, even during a
comparatively short season, will certainly relieve a load of misery.

In a small village towards the west of England, there dwelt, some years
ago, two maiden gentlewomen, sisters, the daughters of the deceased
rector of the parish. Their father had early in life entered upon his
duties in this retired locality, contentedly abiding there where fate
had placed him, each passing year increasing his interest in the charge
which engrossed all his energies. His moderate stipend, assisted
by a small private fortune, sufficed for his quiet tastes, and for
the few charities required by his flock; it also enabled him to
rear a large family respectably, and to start them creditably on
their working way.

There was no railway near this village--even the Queen's highway was
at some distance. Fields, meadows, a shady lane, a brook, and the Welsh
mountains for a background, formed the picture of beauty that
attracted the stranger. There was hardly what could be called a street.
The cottages were clustered upon the side of the wooded bank above the
stream, shrouded in gardens of apple-trees; but there was space near
the foot of the hill for a green of rather handsome size, with a
plane-tree in the middle of it, and a few small shops along one
side.

Opposite the shops was the inn, the doctor's house, the market-house,
and a public reading-room; and a bylane led from the green up towards
the church--an old, low-walled, steep-roofed building, with a square,
dumpy tower, in which hung a peal of bells, and where was placed a
large, round, clumsy window.

Spinrobin followed the big dark outline in front of him as best he could,
stumbling frequently. With countless little hopping steps he dodged along
from point to point, a certain lucky nimbleness in his twinkling feet
saving him from many a tumble.

"All right behind there?" Mr. Skale would thunder.

"All right, thanks, Mr. Skale," he would reply in his thin tenor,
"I'm coming."

"Come along, then!" And on they would go faster than before, till in due
course they emerged from the encircling woods and reached the more open
ground about the house. Somehow, in the jostling relations of the walk, a
freedom of intercourse had been established that no amount of formal talk
between four walls could have accomplished. They scraped their dirty
boots vigorously on the iron mat.

"Tired?" asked the clergyman, kindly.

"Winded, Mr. Skale, thank you--nothing more," was the reply. He looked up
at the square mass of the house looming dark against the sky, and the
noise his companion made opening the door--the actual rattle of the iron
knob did it--suddenly brought to him a clear realization of two things:
First, he understood that the whole way from the station Mr. Skale had
been watching him closely, weighing, testing, proving him, though by ways
and methods so subtle that they had escaped his observation at the time;
secondly, that he was already so caught in the network of this
personality, vaster and more powerful than his own, that escape if he
desired it would be exceedingly difficult. Like a man in a boat upon the
upper Niagara river, he already felt the tug and suction of the current
below--the lust of a great adventure drawing him forward. Mr. Skale's
hand upon his shoulder as they entered the house was the symbol of
_that_. The noise of the door closing behind him was the passing of the
last bit of quiet water across which a landing to the bank might still
have been possible.

Faint streamers from the dark, inscrutable house of fear reached him even
then and left their vague, undecipherable signatures upon the surface of
his soul. The forces that vibrated so strangely in the atmosphere of Mr.
Skale were already playing about his own person, gathering him in like a
garment. Yet while he shuddered, he liked it. Was he not already losing
something of his own insignificant and diminutive self?


IV

The clergyman, meanwhile, had closed the heavy door, shutting out the
darkness, and now led the way across a large, flagged hall into a room,
ablaze with lamp and fire, the walls lined thickly with books, furnished
cozily if plainly. The laden tea table, and a kettle hissing merrily on
the hob, were pleasant to look upon, but what instantly arrested the gaze
of the secretary was the face of the old woman in cap and
apron--evidently the housekeeper already referred to as "Mrs." Mawle--who
stood waiting to pour out tea. For about her worn and wrinkled
countenance there lay an indefinable touch of something that hitherto he
had seen only in pictures of the saints by the old masters. What
attracted his attention, and held it so arrestingly, was this singular
expression of happiness, aye, of more than mere happiness--of joy and
peace and blessed surety, rarely, if ever, seen upon a human face alive,
and only here and there suggested behind that mask of repose which death
leaves so tenderly upon the features of those few who have lived their
lives to noblest advantage.

Spinrobin caught his breath a little, and stared. Aged and lined as it
unquestionably was, he caught that ineffable suggestion of radiance about
it which proclaimed an inner life that had found itself and was in
perfect harmony with outer things: a life based upon certain knowledge
and certain hope. It wore a gentle whiteness he could find only one word
to describe--glory. And the moment he saw it there flashed across him the
recognition that this was what Mr. Skale also possessed. That giant,
athletic, vigorous man, and this bent, worn old woman both had it. He
wondered with a rush of sudden joy what produced it;--whether it might
perhaps one day be his too. The flame of his own spirit leapt within him.

And, so wondering, he turned to look at the clergyman. In the softer
light of fire and lamp his face had the appearance of forty rather than
sixty as he had first judged; the eyes, always luminous, shone with
health and enthusiasm; a great air of youth and vitality glowed about
him. It was a fine head with that dominating nose and the shaggy tangle
of hair and beard; very big, fatherly and protective he looked, a quite
inexpressible air of tenderness mingled in everywhere with the strength.
Spinrobin felt immensely drawn to him as he looked. With such a leader he
could go anywhere, do anything. There, surely, was a man whose heart was
set not upon the things of this world.

An introduction to the housekeeper interrupted his reflections; it did
not strike him as at all out of the way; doubtless she was more mother
than domestic to the household. At the name of "Mrs." Mawle
(courtesy-title, obviously), he rose and bowed, and the old woman,
looking from one to the other, smiled becomingly, curtseyed, put her cap
straight, and turned to the teapot again. She said nothing.

"The only servant I have, practically," explained the clergyman, "cook,
butler, housekeeper and tyrant all in one; and, with her niece, the only
other persons in the house besides ourselves. A very simple _ménage_, you
see, Mr. Spinrobin. I ought to warn you, too, by-the-by," he added, "that
she is almost stone deaf, and has only got the use of one arm, as perhaps
you noticed. Her left arm is"--he hesitated for a fraction of a
second--"withered."

A passing wonder as to what the niece would be like accompanied the
swallowing of his buttered toast and tea, but the personalities of Mr.
Skale and his housekeeper had already produced emotions that prevented
this curiosity acquiring much strength. He could deal with nothing more
just yet. Bewilderment obstructed the way, and in his room before dinner
he tried in vain to sort out the impressions that so thickly flooded him,
though without any conspicuous degree of success. The walls of his
bedroom, like those of corridor and hall, were bare; the furniture solid
and old-fashioned; scanty, perhaps, yet more than he was accustomed to;
and the spaciousness was very pleasant after the cramped quarters of
stuffy London lodgings. He unpacked his few things, arranged them with
neat precision in the drawers of the tallboy, counted his shirts, socks,
and ties, to see that all was right, and then drew up an armchair and
toasted his toes before the comforting fire. He tried to think of many
things, and to decide numerous little questions roused by the events of
the last few hours; but the only thing, it seems, that really occupied
his mind, was the rather overpowering fact that he was--with Mr. Skale
and in Mr. Skale's house; that he was there on a month's trial; that the
nature of the work in which he was to assist was unknown, immense,
singular; and that he was already being weighed in the balances by his
uncommon and gigantic employer. In his mind he used this very adjective.
There was something about the big clergyman--titanic.

He was in the middle of a somewhat jumbled consideration about "Knowledge
of Hebrew--tenor voice--courage and imagination--unworldly," and so
forth, when a knock at the door announced Mrs. Mawle who came to inform
him that dinner was ready. She stood there, a motherly and pleasant
figure in black, and she addressed him in the third person. "If Mr.
Spinrobin will please to come down," she said, "Mr. Skale is waiting. Mr.
Skale is always _quite_ punctual." She always spoke thus, in the third
person; she never used the personal pronoun if it could be avoided. She
preferred the name direct, it seemed. And as Spinrobin passed her on the
way out, she observed further, looking straight into his eyes as she said
it: "and should Mr. Spinrobin have need of anything, _that_," indicating
it, "is the bell that rings in the housekeeper's room. Mrs. Mawle can see
it wag, though she can't hear it. Day or night," she added with a faint
curtsey, "and no trouble at all, just as with the other gentlemen--"

So there had been other gentlemen, other secretaries! He thanked her with
a nod and a smile, and hurried pattering downstairs in a neat blue suit,
black silk socks and a pair of bright new pumps, Mr. Skale having told
him not to dress. The phrase "day or night," meanwhile, struck him as
significant and peculiar. He remembered it later. At the moment he merely
noted that it added one more to the puzzling items that caused his
bewilderment.


V

Before he had gone very far, however, there came another--crowningly
perplexing. For he was halfway down the darkened passage, making for the
hall that glimmered beyond like the mouth of a cave, when, without the
smallest warning, he became suddenly conscious that something attractive
and utterly delicious had invaded the stream of his being. It came from
nowhere--inexplicably, and at first it took the form of a naked sensation
of delight, keen as a thrill of boyhood days. There passed into him very
swiftly something that satisfied. "I mean, whatever it was," he says, "I
couldn't have asked or wanted more of it. It was all there, complete,
supreme, sufficient." And the same instant he saw close beside him, in
the comparative gloom of the narrow corridor, a vivid, vibrating picture
of a girl's face, pale as marble, of flower-like beauty, with dark
voluminous hair and large grey eyes that met his own from behind a
wavering net of eyelashes. Down to the shoulders he saw her.

Erect and motionless she stood against the wall to let him pass--this
slim young girl whose sudden and unexpected presence had so electrified
him. Her eyes followed him like those of a picture, but she neither bowed
nor curtseyed, and the only movement she made was the slight turning of
the head and eyes as he went by. It was extraordinarily effective, this
silent and delightful introduction, for swift as lightning, and with
lightning's terrific and incalculable surety of aim, she leapt into his
heart with the effect of a blinding and complete possession.

It was, of course, he realized, the niece--the fourth member of the
household, and the first clear thought to disentangle itself from the
resultant jumble of emotions was his instinctive wonder what her name
might be. How was this delightful apparition called? This was the
question that ran and danced in his blood. In another minute he felt sure
he would discover it. It must begin (he felt sure of that) with an M.

He did not pause, or alter his pace. He made no sign of recognition.
Their eyes swallowed each other for a brief moment as he passed--and
then he was pattering with quick, excited steps down the passage beyond,
and the girl was left out of sight in the shadows behind him. He did not
even turn back to look, for in some amazing sense she seemed to move on
beside him, as though some portion of her had merged into his being. He
carried her on with him. Some sweet and marvelous interchange they had
undergone together. He felt strangely blessed, soothed inwardly, made
complete, and more than twice on the way down the name he knew must
belong to her almost sprang up and revealed itself--yet never quite. He
knew it began with M, even with Mir--but could get nothing more. The
rest evaded him. He divined only a portion of the name. He had seen only
a portion of her form.

The first syllable, however, sang in him with an exquisitely sweet
authority. He was aware of some glorious new thing in the penetralia of
his little spirit, vibrating with happiness. Some portion of himself sang
with it. "For it really did vibrate," he said, "and no other word
describes it. It vibrated like music, like a string; as though when I
passed her she had taken a bow and drawn it across the strings of my
inmost being to make them sing...."

"Come," broke in the sonorous voice of the clergyman whom he found
standing in the hall; "I've been waiting for you."

It was said, not complainingly nor with any idea of fault-finding, but
rather--both tone and manner betrayed it--as a prelude to something of
importance about to follow. Somewhat impatiently Mr. Skale took his
companion by the arm and led him forwards; on the stone floor Spinrobin's
footsteps sounded light and dancing, like a child's. The clergyman
strode. At the dining room door he stopped, turning abruptly, and at the
same instant the figure of the young girl glided noiselessly towards
them from the mouth of the dark corridor where she had been waiting.

Her entry, again, was curiously effective; like a beautiful thought in a
dream she moved into the hall, and into Spinrobin's life. Moreover, as
she came wholly into view in the light, he felt, as positively as though
he heard it uttered, that he knew her name complete. The first syllable
had come to him in the passageway when he saw her partly, and the feeling
of dread that "Mir--" might prove to be part of "Miranda," "Myrtle," or
some other enormity, passed instantly. These would only have been gross
and cruel misnomers. Her right name--the only one that described her
soul--must end, as it began, with M. It flashed into his mind, and at the
same moment Mr. Skale picked it off his very lips.

"Miriam," he said in deep tones, rolling the name along his mouth so as
to extract every shade of sound belonging to it, "this is Mr. Spinrobin
about whom I told you. He is coming, I hope, to help us."


VI

At first Spinrobin was only aware of the keen delight produced in him by
the manner of Skale's uttering her name, for it entered his consciousness
with a murmuring, singing sound that continued on in his thoughts like a
melody. His racing blood carried it to every portion of his body. He
heard her name, not with his ears alone but with his whole person--a
melodious, haunting phrase of music that thrilled him exquisitely. Next,
he knew that she stood close before him, shaking his hand, and looking
straight into his eyes with an expression of the most complete trust and
sympathy imaginable, and that he felt a well-nigh irresistible desire to
draw her yet closer to him and kiss her little shining face.
Thirdly--though the three impressions were as a matter of fact almost
simultaneous--that the huge figure of the clergyman stood behind them,
watching with the utmost intentness and interest, like a keen and alert
detective eager for some betrayal of evidence, inspired, however, not by
mistrust, but by a very zealous sympathy.

He understood that this meeting was of paramount importance in Mr.
Skale's purpose.

"How do you do, Mr. Spinrobin," he heard a soft voice saying, and the
commonplace phrase served to bring him back to a more normal standard of
things. But the tone in which she said it caused him a second thrill
almost more delightful than the first, for the quality was low and fluty,
like the gentle note of some mellow wind instrument, and the caressing
way she pronounced his name was a revelation. Mr. Skale had known how to
make it sound dignified, but this girl did more--she made it sound alive.
"I will give thee a new name" flashed into his thoughts, as some
memory-cell of boyhood discharged its little burden most opportunely and
proceeded to refill itself.

The smile of happiness that broke over Spinrobin's face was certainly
reflected in the eyes that gazed so searchingly into his own, without the
smallest sign of immodesty, yet without the least inclination to drop the
eyelids. The two natures ran out to meet each other as naturally as two
notes of music run to take their places in a chord. This slight,
blue-eyed youth, light of hair and sensitive of spirit, and this slim,
dark-skinned little maiden, with the voice of music and the wide-open
grey eyes, understood one another from the very first instant their
atmospheres touched and mingled; and the big Skale, looking on intently
over their very shoulders, saw that it was good and smiled down upon
them, too, in his turn.

"The harmony of souls and voices is complete," he said, but in so low a
tone that the secretary did not hear it. Then, with a hand on a shoulder
of each, he half pushed them before him into the dining room, his whole
face running, as it were, into a single big smile of contentment. The
important event had turned out to his entire satisfaction. He looked like
some beneficent father, well pleased with his two children.

But Spinrobin, as he moved beside the girl and heard the rustle of her
dress that almost touched him, felt as though he stood upon a sliding
platform that was moving ever quicker, and that the adventure upon which
he was embarked had now acquired a momentum that nothing he could do
would ever stop. And he liked it. It would carry him out of himself into
something very big....

And at dinner, where he sat opposite to the girl and studied her face
closely, Mr. Skale, he was soon aware, was occupied in studying the two
of them even more closely. He appeared always to be listening to their
voices. They spoke little enough, however, only their eyes met
continually, and when they did so there was no evidence of a desire to
withdraw. Their gaze remained fastened on one another, on her part
without shyness, without impudence on his. That Mr. Skale wished for them
an intimate and even affectionate understanding was evident, and the
secretary warmed to him on that account more than ever, if on no other.

It surprised him too--when he thought of it, which was rarely--that a
girl who was perforce of humble origin could carry herself with an air of
such complete and natural distinction, and prove herself so absolutely
"the lady." For there was something about her of greater value than any
mere earthly rank or class could confer; her spirit was in its very
essence distinguished, perfectly simple, yet strong with a great and
natural pride. It never occurred to her soul to doubt its own great
value--or to question that of others. She somehow or other made the
little secretary feel of great account. He had never quite realized his
own value before. Her presence, her eyes, her voice served to bring it
out. And a very curious detail that he always mentions just at this point
is the fact that it never occurred to him to wonder what her surname
might be, or whether, indeed, she had one at all. Her name, Miriam,
seemed sufficient. The rest of her--if there was any other part of her
not described by those three syllables--lay safely and naturally included
somewhere in _his own_ name. "Spinrobin" described her as well as
himself. But "Miriam" completed his own personality and at the same time
extended it. He felt all wrapped up and at peace with her. With Philip
Skale, Mrs. Mawle and Miriam, he, Robert Spinrobin, felt that he
naturally belonged as "one of the family." They were like the four notes
in the chord: Skale, the great bass; Mawle, the mellow alto; himself and
Miriam, respectively, the echoing tenor and the singing soprano. The
imagery by which, in the depths of his mind, he sought to interpret to
himself the whole singular business ran, it seems, even then to music and
the analogies of music.

The meal was short and very simple. Mrs. Mawle carved the joint at the
end of the table, handed the vegetables and looked after their wants with
the precision of long habit. Her skill, in spite of the withered arm, was
noteworthy. They talked little, Mr. Skale hardly at all. Miriam spoke
from time to time across the table to the secretary. She did not ask
questions, she stated facts, as though she already knew all about his
feelings and tastes. She may have been twenty years of age, perhaps, but
in some way she took him back to childhood. And she said things with the
simple audacity of a child, ignoring Mr. Skale's presence. It seemed to
the secretary as if he had always known her.

"I knew just how you would look," she said, without a trace of shyness,
"the moment I heard your name. And you got my name very quickly, too?"

"Only part of it, at first--"

"Oh yes; but when you saw me completely you got it all," she interrupted.
"And I like your name," she added, looking him full in the eye with her
soft grey orbs; "it tells everything."

"So does yours, you know."

"Oh, of course," she laughed; "Mr. Skale gave it to me the day I
was born."

"I _heard_ it," put in the clergyman, speaking almost for the first time.
And the talk dropped again, the secretary's head fairly whirling.

"You used it all, of course, as a little boy," she said presently again;
"names, I mean?"

"Rather," he replied without hesitation; "only I've rather lost it
since--"

"It will come back to you here. It's so splendid, all this world of
sound, and makes everything seem worth while. But you lose your way at
first, of course; especially if you are out of practice, as you must be."

Spinrobin did not know what to say. To hear this young girl make use of
such language took his breath away. He became aware that she was talking
with a purpose, seconding Mr. Skale in the secret examination to which
the clergyman was all the time subjecting him. Yet there was no element
of alarm in it all. In the room with these two, and with the motherly
figure of the housekeeper busying about to and fro, he felt at home,
comforted, looked after--more even, he felt at his best; as though the
stream of his little life were mingling in with a much bigger and
worthier river, a river, moreover, in flood. But it was the imagery of
music again that most readily occurred to him. He felt that the note of
his own little personality had been caught up into the comforting bosom
of a complete chord....


VII

"Mr. Spinrobin," suddenly sounded soft and low across the table, and,
thrilled to hear the girl speak his name, he looked up quickly and found
her very wide-opened eyes peering into his. Her face was thrust forward a
little as she leaned over the table in his direction.

As he gazed she repeated his name, leisurely, quietly, and even more
softly than before: "Mr. Spinrobin." But this time, as their eyes met and
the syllables issued from her lips, he noticed that a singular
after-sound--an exceedingly soft yet vibrant overtone--accompanied it.
The syllables set something quivering within him, something that sang,
running of its own accord into a melody to which his rising pulses beat
time and tune.

"Now, please, speak my name," she added. "Please look straight at me,
straight into my eyes, and pronounce _my_ name."

His lips trembled, if ever so slightly, as he obeyed.

"Miriam ..." he said.

"Pronounce each syllable very distinctly and very slowly," she said, her
grey eyes all over his burning face.

"Mir ... i ... am," he repeated, looking in the center of the eyes
without flinching, and becoming instantly aware that his utterance
of the name produced in himself a development and extension of the
original overtones awakened by her speaking of his own name. It was
wonderful ... exquisite ... delicious. He uttered it again, and then
heard that she, too, was uttering his at the same moment. Each spoke the
other's name. He could have sworn he heard the music within him leap
across the intervening space and transfer itself to her ... and that he
heard his own name singing, too, in _her_ blood.

For the names were true. By this soft intoning utterance they seemed to
pass mutually into the secret rhythm of that Eternal Principle of Speech
which exists behind the spoken sound and is independent of its means of
manifestation. Their central beings, screened and limited behind their
names, knew an instant of synchronous rhythmical vibration. It was their
introduction absolute to one another, for it was an instant of naked
revelation.

"Spinrobin...."

"Miriam...."


VIII

... A great volume of sound suddenly enveloped and caught away the two
singing names, and the spell was broken. Miriam dropped her eyes;
Spinrobin looked up. It was Mr. Skale's voice upon them with a shout.

"Splendid! splendid!" he cried; "your voices, like your names, are made
for one another, in quality, pitch, accent, everything." He was
enthusiastic rather than excited; but to Spinrobin, taking part in this
astonishing performance, to which the other two alone held the key, it
all seemed too perplexing for words. The great bass crashed and boomed
for a moment about his ears; then came silence. The test, or whatever it
was, was over. It had been successful.

Mr. Skale, his face still shining with enthusiasm, turned towards him.
Miriam, equally happy, watched, her hands folded in her lap.

"My dear fellow," exclaimed the clergyman, half rising in his chair, "how
mad you must think us! How mad you must think us! I can only assure you
that when you know more, as you soon shall, you will understand the
importance of what has just taken place...."

He said a good deal more that Spinrobin did not apparently quite take in.
He was too bewildered. His eyes sought the girl where she sat opposite,
gazing at him. For all its pallor, her face was tenderly soft and
beautiful; more pure and undefiled, he thought, than any human
countenance he had ever seen, and sweet as the face of a child. Utterly
unstained it was. A similar light shone in the faces of Skale and Mrs.
Mawle. In their case it had forged its way through the more or less
defiling garment of a worn and experienced flesh. But the light in
Miriam's eyes and skin was there because it had never been extinguished.
She had retained her pristine brilliance of soul. Through the little
spirit of the perplexed secretary ran a thrill of genuine worship and
adoration.

"Mr. Skale's coffee is served in the library," announced the voice of the
housekeeper abruptly behind them; and when Spinrobin turned again he
discovered that Miriam had slipped from the room unobserved and was gone.

Mr. Skale took his companion's arm and led the way towards the hall.

"I am glad you love her," was his astonishing remark. 'You see there
would be no propriety in placing you in a situation properly filled
by a boy, or at least a youth.

Still, I will not forget your request; and if occasion should
require, you shall have the first hearing.'

'I had hoped,' continued Hiram, no way daunted, 'that possibly you might
have been disposed to take me in your private employ.'
'How?'

'You have large, varied, and increasing interests.

You must be severely tasked, at least at times, to properly manage
all.

Could I not serve you as an assistant?

You would find me, I think, industrious and persevering. I bring certificates
of character from the Rev. Mr.
Goddard, our clergyman, and from both the deacons in our church.'
This was said with a naïve earnestness, coupled with a diffidence apparently
_so_ genuine, that Mr. Burns could not but be favorably impressed by it.
In fact, the idea of a general assistant had never before occurred to
him. He reflected a moment, and replied:

'It is true I have much on my hands, but one who has a great deal to do
can do a great deal; besides, the duties I undertake it would be impossible
to devolve on another.'
'I wish you would give me a trial. The amount of salary would be no object.
I want to learn business, and I know I can learn it of _you_.'

Mr. Burns was not insensible to the compliment. His features relaxed into
a smile, but his opinion remained unchanged.

'Well,' said Hiram, in a pathetic tone, 'I hate to go back and meet
father.

He said he presumed you had forgotten him, though he remembered you when
you lived in Sudbury, a young man about my age; and he told me to make
an engagement with you, if it were only as errand-boy.'
[O Hiram! how could that glib and ready lie come so aptly to your
lips?
Your father never said a word to you on the subject.

It is doubtful if he knew you were going to Burnsville at all, and he
never had seen Mr.
Burns in his life. How carefully, Hiram, you calculated before you
resolved on this delicate method to secure your object! The risk of the
falsity of the whole ever being discovered--that was very remote, and
amounted to little.

What you were about to say would injure no one--wrong no one. If not
true, it might well be true. Oh! but Hiram, do you not see you
are permitting an element of falsehood to creep in and leaven your whole
nature?

You are exhibiting an utter disregard of circumstances in your determination
to carry your point. Heretofore you have looked to but one
end--self; but you have committed no overt act.
Have a care, Hiram Meeker; Satan is gaining on you.]
Mr. Burns had not been favorably impressed, at first sight, with his visitor.
Magnetically he was repelled by him. He was too just a man to allow this
to influence him, by word or manner.

He permitted Hiram to accompany him to the mill and return with
him.

During this time, the latter had learned something of his man. He saw quickly
enough that he had failed favorably to impress Mr. Burns.
Determining not to lose the day, he assumed an entire ingenuousness
of character, coupled with much simplicity and earnestness.

He appealed to the certificates of his minister and the deacons, as if
these would be sure to settle the question irrespective of Mr.

Burns's wants; and at last the _lie_ slipped from his mouth, in
appearance as innocently as truth from the lips of an angel.

At the mention of Sudbury and the time when he was a young man, Hiram,
who watched narrowly, thought he could perceive a slight quickening in
the eye of Mr. Burns--nothing more.

His only reply, however, to the appeal, was to ask:

'How old are you?'
'Nineteen,' said Hiram softly. (He would be twenty the following week, but
he did not say so.)
'Only nineteen!' exclaimed Mr. Burns, 'I took you for five-and-twenty.'
'It is very singular,' replied Hiram mournfully; 'I am not aware that
persons generally think me older than I am.'

'Oh! I presume not; and now I look closer, I do not think you _do_ appear
more than nineteen.'
It was really astonishing how Hiram's countenance had changed. How every
trace of keen, shrewd apprehension had vanished, leaving only the
appearance of a highly intelligent and interesting, but almost diffident
youth!

Mr. Burns sat a moment without speaking. Hiram did not dare utter a word.
He knew he was dealing with a man quick in his impressions and rapid
to decide. He had done his best, and would not venture farther.

Mr. Burns, looking up from a reflective posture, cast his eyes
on Hiram.
The latter really appeared so amazingly distressed that Mr. Burns's feelings
were touched.

'Is your mother living,' he asked.

Hiram was almost on the point of denying the fact, but that would
have been too much.

'Oh! yes, sir,' he replied.

Again Mr. Burns was silent.

Again Hiram calculated the chances, and would not venture to interrupt
him.

This time Mr. Burns's thoughts took another direction. It occurred to him
that he had of late overtasked his daughter. 'True, it is a great source
of pleasure for us both that she can be of so much assistance to me, but
her duties naturally accumulate; she is doing too much. It is not
appropriate.'

So thought Mr.

Burns while Hiram Meeker sat waiting for a decision.

'It is true,' continued Mr.

Burns to himself, 'I think I ought to have a private clerk. The idea
occurred even to this youth.

I will investigate who and what he is, and will give him a trial if all
is right.'
He turned toward Hiram:

'Young man, I am inclined to favor your request.

But if I give you employment in my _office_, your relations with me will
necessarily be confidential, and the situation will be one of trust
and confidence.

I must make careful inquiries.'

'Certainly, sir,' replied Hiram, drawing a long breath, for he saw
the victory was gained.

'I will leave these certificates, which may aid you in your inquiries. I
was born and brought up in Hampton, and you will have no difficulty
in finding persons who know my parents and me.

When shall I call again, sir?'
'In a week.'
* * * * * 
'Won!

won! yes, won!' exclaimed Hiram aloud, when he had walked a sufficient
distance from the 'office' to enable him to do so without danger of being
overheard. 'A close shave, though!

If he had said 'No,' all Hampton would not have moved him. What a
splendid place for me!

How did I come to be smart enough to suggest such a thing to him? I
rather think three years here will make me all right for New-York.'

Hiram walked along to the hotel, and ordered dinner. While it was
getting ready, he strolled over the village.

He was in hopes to meet, by some accident, Miss Burns.

He was not disappointed. Turning a corner, he came suddenly on
Sarah, who had run out for a call on some friend. Hiram fancied he
had produced a decided impression the evening they met at Mrs. Crofts',
and with a slight fluttering at the heart, he was about to stop and
extend his hand, when Miss Burns, hardly appearing to recognize him,
only bowed slightly and passed on her way.

'You shall pay for this, young lady,' muttered Hiram between his
teeth--'you shall pay for this, or my name is not Hiram Meeker! I would
come here now for nothing else but to pull _her_ down!' continued Hiram
savagely. 'I will let her know whom she has to deal with.'

He walked back to the hotel in a state of great irritation. With the
sight of a good dinner, however, this was in a degree dispelled, and
before he finished it, his philosophy came to his relief.

'Time--time--it takes time. The fact is, I shall like the girl all the
better for her playing _off_ at first. Shan't forget it though--not quite!'

He drove back to Hampton that afternoon.

His feelings were placid and complacent as usual. He had asked the
Lord in the morning to prosper his journey and to grant him success in
gaining his object, and he now returned thanks for this new mark
of God's grace and favor

.

* * * * *
Mr. Burns did not inquire of the Rev. Mr. Goddard, nor of either of
the deacons mentioned by Hiram. He wrote direct to Thaddeus Smith, Senior,
whom he knew, and who he thought would be able to give a correct
account of Hiram.

Informing Mr. Smith that the young man had applied to him for a situation
of considerable trust, he asked that gentleman to give his careful opinion
about his capacity, integrity, and general character. As there could be
but one opinion on the subject in all Hampton, Mr. Smith returned an
answer every way favorable. It is true he did not like Hiram himself, but
if called on for a reason, he could not have told why.

As we have recorded, every one spoke well of him. Every one said how
good, and moral, and smart he was, and honest Mr.

Smith reported accordingly.

'Well, well,' said Mr. Burns, 'if Smith gives such an account of
him while he has been all the time in an opposition store, he must be all
right.... Don't quite like his looks, though ... wonder what it is.'

* * * * *
When at the expiration of the week Hiram went to receive an answer from
Mr. Burns, he did not attempt to find him at his house.

He was careful to call at the office at the hour Mr. Burns was certain to
be in.

'I hear a good account of you, Meeker,' said Mr. Burns, 'and in that
respect every thing is satisfactory. Had I not given you so much
encouragement, I should still hesitate about making a new
department.

However, we will try it.'
'I am very thankful to you, sir. As I said, I want to learn business
and the compensation is no object.'
'But it _is_ an object with me. I can have no one in my service who is
not fully paid.

Your position should entitle you to a liberal salary. If you can not earn
it, you can not fill the place.'
'Then I shall try to earn it, I assure you,' replied Hiram, 'and will leave
the matter entirely with you. I have brought you a line from my father,'
he continued, and he handed Mr. Burns a letter.

It contained a request, prepared at Hiram's suggestion, that Mr. Burns would
admit him in his family. The other ran his eye hastily over it. A slight
frown contracted his brow.

'Impossible!' he exclaimed.

'My domestic arrangements will not permit of such a thing. Quite impossible.'

'So I told father, but he said it would do no harm to write. He did not
think you would be offended.'

'Offended! certainly not.'
'Perhaps,' continued Hiram, 'you will be kind enough to recommend a good
place to me. I should wish to reside in a religious family, where no
other boarders are taken.'

The desire was a proper one, but Hiram's tone did not have the ring
of the true metal.

It grated slightly on Mr. Burns's moral nerves--a little of his first
aversion came back--but he suppressed it, and promised to endeavor
to think of a place which should meet Hiram's wishes. It was now
Saturday. It was understood Hiram should commence his duties the
following Monday. This arranged, he took leave of his employer, and
returned home.

That evening Mr. Burns told his daughter he was about to relieve
her from the drudgery--daily increasing--of copying letters and
taking care of so many papers, by employing a confidential clerk.

Sarah at first was grieved; but when her father declared he should
talk with her just as ever about every thing he did or proposed to
do, and that he thought in the end the new clerk would be a great
relief to him, she was content.

'But whom have you got, father,' (she always called him 'father,')
'for so important a situation?'

'His name is Meeker--Hiram Meeker--a young man very highly recommended
to me from Hampton.'
'I wonder if it was not he whom I met last Saturday!'

'Possibly; he called on me that day. Do you know him?'
'I presume it is the same person I saw at Mrs. Crofts' some weeks
since.

Last Saturday a young man met me and almost stopped, as if about to
speak. I did not recognize him, although I could not well avoid
bowing.
Now I feel quite sure it was Mr. Meeker.'
'Very likely.'

'Well, I do hope he will prove faithful and efficient.

I recollect every one spoke very highly of him.'
'I dare say.'

Mr. Burns was in a reverie. Certain thoughts were passing through his
mind--painful, unhappy thoughts--thoughts which had never before
visited him.

'Sarah, how old are you?'
'Why, father, what a question!' She came and sat on his knee and looked
fondly into his eyes. 'What _can_ you be thinking of not to remember I am
seventeen?'
'Of course I remember it, dear child,' replied Mr. Burns tenderly; 'my
mind was wandering, and I spoke without reflection.'

'But you were thinking of me?'
'Perhaps.'
He kissed her, and rose and walked slowly up and down the room. Still
he was troubled.

We shall not at present endeavor to penetrate his thoughts; nor is
it just now to our purpose to present them to the reader

.

* * * * *
Hiram Meeker had been again _successful_. He had resolved to enter
the service of Mr. Burns and he _had_ entered it. He came over Monday
morning early, and put up at the hotel. In three or four days he secured
just the kind of boarding-place he was in search of. A very respectable
widow lady, with two grown-up daughters, after consulting with Mr.
Burns, did not object to receive him as a member of her family.

AN ARMY CONTRACTOR.

Lived a man of iron mold, Crafty glance and hidden eye, Dead to every
gain but gold, Deaf to every human sigh.
Man he was of hoary beard, Withered cheek and wrinkled brow.
Imaged on his soul, appeared:
'Honest as the times allow.'

LITERARY NOTICES.

WHY PAUL FERROLL KILLED HIS WIFE.

By the Author of Paul Ferroll. New-York: Carleton, 413 Broadway.
Boston: N. Williams & Co.

Those who remember _Paul Ferroll_, probably recall it as a novel of
merit, which excited attention, partly from its peculiarity,
and partly from the mystery in which its writer chose to conceal herself--a
not unusual course with timid debutantes in literature, who hope either
to _intriguer_ the public with their masks, or quietly escape the
disgrace of a _fiasco_ should they fail.

Mrs. Clive is, however, it would seem, satisfied that the public did not
reject her, since she now reäppears to inform us, 'novelly,' why the
extremely ill-married Paul made himself the chief of sinners, by
committing wife-icide. The work is in fact a very readable novel--much
less killing indeed than its title--but still deserving the great run
which we are informed it is having, and which, unlike the run of shad,
will not we presume--as it is a very summer book--fall off as the
season advances.

THE CHANNINGS. A Domestic Novel of Real Life. By Mrs.
Henry Wood. Philadelphia: T. B. Peterson. Boston: Crosby and Nichols.

Notwithstanding the praise which has been so lavishly bestowed on
this 'tale of domestic life,' the reader will, if any thing more
than a mere reader of novels for the very sake of 'story,' probably
agree with us, after dragging through to the end, that it would be
a blessing if some manner of stop could be put to the manufacture
of such books.

A really _original_, earnest novel; vivid in its life-picturing,
genial in its characters; the book of a man or woman who has thought
something, and actually _knows_ something, is at any time a world's
blessing. But what has _The Channings_ of all this in it? Every sentence
in it rings like something read of old, all the incidents are of a kind
which were worn out years ago--to be sure the third-rate story-reader may
lose himself in it--just as we may for a fiftieth time endeavor to
trace out the plan of the Hampton Labyrinth, and with about as much
real profit or amusement.

It is a melancholy sign of the times to learn that such hackneyed
English trash as _The Channings_ has sold well!

It has not deserved it.
American novels which have appeared nearly cotemporaneously with
it, and which have ten times its merit, have not met with the same
success, for the simple and sole reason that almost any English
circulating library stuff will at any time meet with better patronage
than a home work.

When our public becomes as much interested in itself as it is
in the very common-place life of Cockney clergymen and clerks, we
shall perhaps witness a truly generous encouragement of native
literature.

THE PEARL OF ORR'S ISLAND. A Story of the Coast of Maine.
By Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe. Boston: Ticknor and Fields.

In reading this quiet, natural, well-pictured narrative of Northern
life, we are tempted to exclaim--fresh from the extraordinary contrast
presented by _Agnes of Sorrento--O si sic omnes!_ Why can not Mrs. Stowe
_always_ write like this? Why not limit her efforts to subjects which
develop her really fine powers--to setting forth the social life of
America at the present day, instead of harping away at the seven times
worn out and knotted cord of Catholic and Italian romance? _The Pearl of
Orr's Island_, though not a work which will sweep Uncle Tom-like in
tempest fashion over all lands and through all languages, is still
a very readable and very refreshing novel--full of reality as we
find it among real people, 'inland or on sounding shore,' and by
no means deficient in those moral and religious lessons to inculcate
which it appears to have been written.

Piety is indeed the predominant characteristic of the work--not obtrusive
or sectarian, but earnest and actual; so that it will probably be
classed, on the whole, as a religious novel, though we can hardly
recall a romance in which the pious element interferes so little
with the general interest of the plot, or is so little conducive
to gloom.

The hard, '_Angular_ Saxon' characteristics of the rural people who
constitute the _dramatis personæ_, their methods of thought and tone of
feeling, so singularly different from that of 'the world,' their marked
peculiarities, are all set forth with an apparently unconscious ability
deserving the highest praise.

THE GOLDEN HOUR. By MONOURE D. CONWAY, Author of the 'Rejected
Stone,' '_Impera Parendo_.' Boston: Ticknor and Fields.

The most remarkable work which the war has called out is beyond
question the _Rejected Stone_. Wild, vigorous, earnest, even to
suffering, honest as truth itself, quaint, humorous, pathetic, and
startlingly eccentric.
Those who read it at once decided that a new writer had arisen among
us, and one destined to make no mean mark in the destinies of his
country.
The reader who will refer to our first number will find what we
said of it in all sincerity, since the author was then to us unknown.
He is--it is almost needless to inform the reader--a thorough-going
abolitionist, yet one who, while looking more intently at the welfare
of the black than we care to do in the present imbroglio, still
appreciates and urges Emancipation, or freeing the black, in its
relation to the welfare of the white man. Mr. Conway is not, however,
a man who speaks ignorantly on this subject. A Virginian born and
bred, brought up in the very heart of the institution, he studied
it at home in all its relations, and found out its evils by experience.
A thoroughly honest man, too clear-headed and far too intelligent
to be rated as a fanatic; too familiar with his subject to be at
all disregarded, he claims close attention in many ways, those of
wit and eloquence not being by any means the least. In the work
before us, he insists that there is a golden hour at hand, a title
borrowed from the quaint advertisement, of 'Lost a golden hour set
with sixty diamond minutes'--which if not grasped at by the strong,
daring hand will see our great national opportunity lost forever.
We are not such disbelievers in fate as to imagine that this golden
hour ever can be inevitably lost. If the cause of freedom rolls
slowly, it is because even in free soil there are too many Conservative
pebbles. Still we agree with Conway as to his estimate of the great
mass of cowardice, irresolution, and folly which react on our
administration. If the word 'Emancipationist,'--meaning thereby one
who looks to the welfare of the _white_ man rather than the negro--be
substituted for 'Abolitionist' in the following, our more intelligent
readers will probably agree with Mr. Conway exactly:
'If this country is to be saved, the Abolitionists are to save it;
and though they seem few in numbers, they are not by a thousandth
so few as were the Christians when JESUS suffered, or Protestants
when Luther spoke. There is need only that we should stand as one
man, and unto the end, for an absolutely free Republic, swearing
to promote eternal strife until it be attained--until in waters
which Agitation, the angel of freedom, has troubled, the diseased
nation shall bathe and be made every whit whole."And now," he cried, "we'll get your Pattern too. I no longer have any
doubts, but none the less it will be a satisfaction to us both to see it.
It must, I'm sure, harmonies with ours; it must!"

He opened a cupboard drawer and produced a thin sheet of glass, upon
which he next poured some finely powdered sand out of a paper bag. It
rattled, dry and faint, upon the smooth, hard surface. And while he did
this, he talked rapidly, boomingly, with immense enthusiasm.

"All sounds," he said, half to himself, half to the astonished secretary,
"create their own patterns. Sound builds; sound destroys; and invisible
sound-vibrations affect concrete matter. For all sounds produce
forms--the forms that correspond to them, as you shall now see. Within
every form lies the silent sound that first called it into view--into
visible shape--into being. Forms, shapes, bodies are the vibratory
activities of _sound made visible_."

"My goodness!" exclaimed Spinrobin, who was listening like a man in a
dream, but who caught the violence of the clergyman's idea none the less.

"Forms and bodies are--_solidified Sound_," cried the clergyman in
italics.

"You say something extraordinary," exclaimed the commonplace Spinrobin in
his shrill voice. "Marvelous!" Vaguely he seemed to remember that
Schelling had called architecture "frozen music."

Mr. Skale turned and looked at him as a god might look at an
insect--that he loved.

"Sound, Mr. Spinrobin," he said, with a sudden and effective lowering of
his booming voice, "is the original divine impulsion behind
nature--communicated to language. It is--creative!"

Then, leaving the secretary with this nut of condensed knowledge to crack
as best he could, the clergyman went to the end of the room in three
strides. He busied himself for a moment with something upon the wall;
then he suddenly turned, his great face aglow, his huge form erect,
fixing his burning eyes upon his distracted companion.

"In the Beginning," he boomed solemnly, in tones of profound conviction,
"was--the _Word_." He paused a moment, and then continued, his voice
filling the room to the very ceiling. "At the Word of God--at the thunder
of the Voice of God, worlds leaped into being!" Again he paused. "Sound,"
he went on, the whole force of his great personality in the phrase, "was
the primordial, creative energy. A sound can call a form into existence.
Forms are the Sound-Figures of archetypal forces--the Word made Flesh."
He stopped, and moved with great soft strides about the room.

Spinrobin caught the words full in the face. For a space he could not
measure--considerably less than a second, probably--the consciousness of
something unutterably immense, unutterably flaming, rushed tumultuously
through his mind, with wings that bore his imagination to a place where
light was--dazzling, white beyond words. He felt himself tossed up to
Heaven on the waves of a great sea, as the body of strange belief behind
the clergyman's words poured through him.... For somewhere, behind the
incoherence of the passionate language, burned the blaze of a true
thought at white heat--could he but grasp it through the stammering
utterance.

Then, with equal swiftness, it passed. His present surroundings came
back. He dropped with a dizzy rush from awful spaces ... and was aware
that he was merely--standing on the black, woolly mat before the fire
watching the movements of his new employer, that his pumps were bright
and pointed, his head just level with a dark marble mantelpiece. Dazed,
and a trifle breathless he felt; and at the back of his disordered mind
stirred a schoolboy's memory that the Pythagoreans believed the
universe to have been called out of chaos by Sound, Number, and
Harmony--or something to that effect.... But these huge, fugitive
thoughts that tore through him refused to be seized and dealt with. He
staggered a little, mentally; then, with a prodigious effort, controlled
himself--and watched.


III

Mr. Skale, he saw, had fastened the little sheet of glass by its four
corners to silken strings hanging from the ceiling. The glass plate hung,
motionless and horizontal, in the air with its freight of sand. For
several minutes the clergyman played a series of beautiful modulations in
double-stopping upon the violin. In these the dominating influence was E
flat. Spinrobin was not musical enough to describe it more accurately
than this. Only, with greater skill than he knows, he mentions how Skale
drew out of that fiddle the peculiarly intimate and searching tones by
which strings can reach the spiritual center of a man and make him
respond to delicate vibrations of thoughts beyond his normal gamut....

Spinrobin, listening, understood that he was a greater man than he
knew....

And the sand on the glass sheet, he next became aware, was shifting,
moving, dancing. He heard the tiny hissing and rattling of the dry
grains. It was uncommonly weird. This visible and practical result
made the clergyman's astonishing words seem true and convincing. That
moving sand brought sanity, yet a certain curious terror of the
unknown into it all.

A minute later Mr. Skale stopped playing and beckoned to him.

"See," he said quietly, pointing to the arrangement the particles of
sand had assumed under the influence of the vibrations. "There's your
pattern--your sound made visible. That's your utterance--the Note you
substantially represent and body forth in terms of matter."

The secretary stared. It was a charming but very simple pattern the lines
of sand had assumed, not unlike the fronds of a delicate fern growing out
of several small circles round the base.

"So that's my note--made visible!" he exclaimed under his breath. "It's
delightful; it's quite exquisite."

"That's E flat," returned Mr. Skale in a whisper, so as not to disturb
the pattern; "if I altered the note, the pattern would alter too. E
natural, for instance, would be different. Only, luckily, you are E
flat--just the note we want. And now," he continued, straightening
himself up to his full height, "come over and see mine and Miriam's and
Mrs. Mawle's, and you'll understand what I meant when I said that yours
would harmonize." And in a glass case across the room they examined a
number of square sheets of glass with sand upon them in various patterns,
all rendered permanent by a thin coating of a glue-like transparent
substance that held the particles in position.

"There you see mine and Miriam's and Mrs. Mawle's," he said, stooping to
look. "They harmonize most beautifully, you observe, with your own."

It was, indeed, a singular and remarkable thing. The patterns, though all
different, yet combined in some subtle fashion impossible of analysis to
form a complete and well-proportioned Whole--a design--a picture. The
patterns of the clergyman and the housekeeper provided the base and
foreground, those of Miriam and the secretary the delicate
superstructure. The girl's pattern, he noted with a subtle pleasure, was
curiously similar to his own, but far more delicate and waving. Yet,
whereas his was floral, hers was stellar in character; that of the
housekeeper was spiral, and Mr. Skale's he could only describe as a
miniature whirlwind of very exquisite design rising out of apparently
three separate centers of motion.

"If I could paint over them the color each shade of sound represents,"
Mr. Skale resumed, "the tint of each _timbre_, or _Klangfarbe_, as the
Germans call it, you would see better still how we are all grouped
together there into a complete and harmonious whole."

Spinrobin looked from the patterns to his companion's great face bending
there beside him. Then he looked back again at the patterns. He could
think of nothing quite intelligible to say. He noticed more clearly every
minute that these dainty shapes of sand, stellar, spiral, and floral,
stood to one another in certain definite proportions, in a rising and
calculated ratio of singular beauty.

"There, before you, lies a true and perfect chord made visible," the
clergyman said in tones thrilling with satisfaction, "--three notes in
harmony with the fundamental sound, myself, and with each other. My dear
fellow, I congratulate you, I congratulate you."

"Thank you very much, indeed," murmured Spinrobin. "I don't quite
understand it all yet, but it's--it's extraordinarily fascinating and
wonderful."

Mr. Skale said nothing, and Spinrobin drifted back to his big armchair. A
deep silence pervaded the room for the space of several minutes. In the
heart of that silence lay the mass of direct and vital questions the
secretary burned, yet was afraid, to ask. For such was the plain truth;
he yearned to know, yet feared to hear. The Discovery and the Experiment
of this singular man loomed already somewhat vast and terrible; the
adjective that had suggested itself before returned to him--"not
permissible." ... Of Mr. Skale himself he had no sort of fear, though a
growing and uncommon respect, but of the purpose Mr. Skale had in view
he caught himself thinking more and more, yet without obvious reason,
with a distinct shrinking almost amounting to dismay. But for the fact
that so sweet and gentle a creature as Miriam was traveling the same path
with him, this increased sense of caution would have revealed itself
plainly for what it was--Fear....

"I am deeply interested, Mr. Skale," he said at length, breaking first
the silence, "and sympathetic too, I assure you; only--you will forgive
me for saying it--I am, as yet, still rather in the dark as to where all
this is to lead--" The clergyman's eyes, fixed straight upon his own,
again made it difficult to finish the sentence as he wished.

"Necessarily so, because I can only lead you to my discovery step by
step," replied the other steadily. "I wish you to be thoroughly prepared
for anything that may happen, so that you can deal intelligently with
results that might otherwise overwhelm you."

"Overwhelm--?" faltered his listener.

"_Might_, I said. Note carefully my use of words, for they are accurately
chosen. Before I can tell you all I must submit you, for your own sake,
to certain tests--chiefly to the test of Alteration of Form by Sound. It
is somewhat--er--alarming, I believe, the first time. You must be
thoroughly accustomed to these astonishing results before we dare to
approach the final Experiment; so that you will not tremble. For there
can be no rehearsal. The great Experiment can only be made once ... and I
must be as sure as possible that you will feel no terror in the face of
the Unknown."


IV

Spinrobin listened breathlessly. He hesitated a moment after the other
stopped speaking, then slewed round on his slippery chair and faced him.

Hiram had a faint hope he would be invited to step into the house and wait.
Disappointed in this, he replied very modestly: 'Perhaps you will
permit me to ride with you--that is, unless some one else is going.
I would like much to look about the factories.'
'Certainly. Jump in.' And away they drove to Slab City.

Hiram was careful to make no allusion to the subject of his mission
to Burnsville.

He remained modestly silent while Mr. Burns occasionally pointed out an
important building and explained its use or object.
Arriving at the paper-mill, he gave Hiram a brief direction where he
might spend his time most agreeably.

'I shall be ready to return in three quarters of an hour,' he said,
and disappeared inside.Another pause fell between them, longer than the rest; it was broken by
the clergyman. He spoke emphatically, evidently weighing his words with
the utmost care.

"This Chord," he said simply--yet, for all the simplicity, there ran to
and fro behind his words the sense of unlawful and immense forces
impending--"I need for a stupendous experiment with sound, an experiment
which will lead in turn towards a yet greater and final one. There is no
harm in your knowing that. To produce a certain transcendent result I
want a complex sound--a chord, but a complete and perfect chord in which
each note is sure of itself and absolutely accurate."

He waited a moment. There was utter silence about them in the room.
Spinrobin held his breath.

"No instrument can help me; the notes must be human," he resumed in a
lower voice, "and the utterers--pure. For the human voice can produce
sounds 'possessing in some degree the characteristics not only of all
musical instruments, but of all sounds of whatever description.' By means
of this chord I hope to utter a certain sound, a certain _name_, of which
you shall know more hereafter. But a name, as you surely know, need not
be composed of one or two syllables only; a whole symphony may be a name,
and a whole orchestra playing for days, or an entire nation chanting for
years, may be required to pronounce the beginning merely of--of certain
names. Yours, Robert Spinrobin, for instance, I can pronounce in a
quarter of a second; but there may be names so vast, so mighty, that
minutes, days, years even, may be necessary for their full utterance.
There may be names, indeed, which can never be known, for they could
never be uttered--_in time_. For the moment I am content simply to drop
this thought into your consciousness; later you shall understand more. I
only wish you to take in now that I need this perfect chord for the
utterance in due course of a certain complex and stupendous name--the
invocation, that is, of a certain complex and stupendous Force!"

"I think I understand," whispered the other, afraid to interrupt more.

"And the difficulty I have experienced in finding the three notes has
been immense. I found Mrs. Mawle--alto; then Miriam I found at birth and
trained her--soprano; and now I have found you, Mr. Spinrobin, and my
chord, with myself as bass, is complete. Your note and Miriam's, soprano
and tenor, are closer than the relations between the other notes, and a
tenor has accordingly been most difficult to find. So queried 'the South;'
and, if any answer were possible, that answer would not be heard.

'Love slavery or quit the South,' was the inexorable rule; and the
resulting hypocrisy has wrought deep injury to the Northern character.
As manufacturers, as traders, as teachers, as clerks, as political aspirants,
most of our active, enterprising, leading classes have been suitors
in some form for Southern favor, and the consequence has been a prevalent
deference to Southern ideas and a constant sacrifice of moral convictions
to hopes of material advantage.

It has pleased God to bring this demoralizing commerce to a sudden and
sanguinary close. Henceforth North and South will meet as equals, neither
finding or fancying in their intimate relations any reason for
imposing a profession of faith on the other.

The Southron visiting the North and finding here any law, usage, or
institution revolting to his sense of justice, will never dream
of offending by frankly avowing and justifying the impression it
has made upon him: and so with the Northman visiting the South.

It is conscious wrong alone that shrinks from impartial observation and
repels unfavorable criticism as hostility. We freely proffer our
farms, our factories, our warehouses, common-schools, alms-houses, inns,
and whatever else may be deemed peculiar among us, to our visitors'
scrutiny and comment: we know they are not perfect, and welcome any hint
that may conduce to their improvement. So in the broad, free West. The
South alone resents any criticism on her peculiarities, and repels as
enmity any attempt to convince her that her forced labor is her vital
weakness and her greatest peril.

This is about to pass away. Slavery, having appealed to the sword for
justification, is to be condemned at her chosen tribunal and to fall on
the weapon she has aimed at the heart of the Republic. A new relation
of North to South, based on equality, governed by justice, and
conceding the fullest liberty, is to replace fawning servility by
manly candor, and to lay the foundations of a sincere, mutual, and
lasting esteem.

We already know that valor is an American quality; we shall yet realize
that Truth is every man's interest, and that whatever repels scrutiny
confesses itself unfit to live.
The Hebrew alphabet,
Mr. Spinrobin, is a 'discourse in methods of manifestation, of
formation.' In its correct pronunciation lies a way to direct knowledge
of divine powers, and to conditions beyond this physical existence."

The clergyman's voice grew lower and lower as he proceeded, and the
conviction was unavoidable that he referred to things whereof he had
practical knowledge. To Spinrobin it was like the lifting of a great
veil. As a boy he had divined something of these values of sound and
name, but with the years this knowledge had come to seem fantastic and
unreal. It now returned upon him with the force of a terrific certainty.
That immense old inner playground of his youth, without boundaries or
horizon, rolled up before his mental vision, inviting further and
detailed discovery.

"With the language, qua language," he continued, "you need not trouble,
but the 'Names' of many things you must know accurately, and especially
the names of the so-called 'Angels'; for these are in reality Forces of
immense potency, vast spiritual Powers, Qualities, and the like, all
evocable by correct utterance of their names. This language, as you will
see, is _alive_ and divine in the true sense; its letters are the
vehicles of activities; its words, terrific formulae; and the true
pronunciation of them remains today a direct channel to divine knowledge.
In time you shall see; in time you shall know; in time you shall hear.
Mr. Spinrobin," and he thrust his great head forwards and dropped his
voice to a hushed whisper, "in time we shall all together make this
Experiment in sound which shall redeem us and make us as Gods!"

"Thank you!" gasped the secretary, swept off his feet by this torrent of
uncommon and mystical language, and passing a moist hand through his
feathery hair. He was not entirely ignorant, of course, of the alleged
use of sound in the various systems of so-called magic that have
influenced the minds of imaginative men during the history of the world.
He had heard, more or less vaguely, perhaps, but still with
understanding, about "Words of Power"; but hitherto he had merely
regarded such things as picturesque superstitions, or half-truths that
lie midway between science and imagination. Here, however, was a man in
the twentieth century, the days of radium, flying machines, wireless
telegraphy, and other invitations towards materialism, who apparently had
practical belief in the effective use of sound and in its psychic and
divine possibilities, and who was devoting all of his not inconsiderable
powers of heart and mind to their actual demonstration. It was
astonishing. It was delightful. It was incredible! And, but for the
currents of a strange and formidable fear that this conception of Skale's
audacious Experiment set stirring in his soul, Spinrobin's enthusiasm
would have been possibly as great as his own.

As it was he went up to the big clergyman and held out his hand, utterly
carried away by the strangeness of it all, caught up in a vague splendor
he did not quite understand, prepared to abandon himself utterly.

"I gather something of what you mean," he said earnestly, "if not all;
and I hope most sincerely I may prove suitable for your purpose when the
time comes. As a boy, you know, curiously enough, I always believed in
the efficacy of names and the importance of naming true. I think," he
added somewhat diffidently, looking up straight into the luminous eyes
above him, "if you will allow me to say so, I would follow you anywhere,
Mr. Skale--anywhere you cared to lead."

"'Upon him that overcometh,'" said the clergyman in that gentle voice he
sometimes used, soft as the voice of woman, "'will I write my new
name....'"

He gazed down very searchingly into the other's eyes for a minute or two,
then shook the proffered hand without another word. And so they
separated and went to bed, for it was long past midnight.


Chapter III


I

In his bedroom, though excitement banished sleep in spite of the lateness
of the hour, he was too exhausted to make any effective attempt to reduce
the confusion of his mind to order. For the first time in his life the
diary-page for the day remained blank. For a long time he sat before it
with his pencil--then sighed and put it away. A volume he might have
written, but not a page, much less a line or two. And though it was but
eight hours since he had made the acquaintance of the Rev. Philip Skale,
it seemed to him more like eight days.

Moreover, all that he had heard and seen, fantastic and strained as he
felt it to be, possibly even the product of religious mania, was
nevertheless profoundly disquieting, for mixed up with it somewhere or
other was--truth. Mr. Skale _had_ made a discovery--a giant one; it was
not all merely talk and hypnotism, the glamour of words. His great
Experiment would prove to be real and terrible. He _had_ discovered
certain uses of sound, occult yet scientific, and if he, Spinrobin,
elected to stay on, he would be obliged to play his part in the
dénouement. And this thought from the very beginning appalled while it
fascinated him. It filled him with a kind of horrible amazement. For the
object the clergyman sought, though not yet disclosed, already cast its
monstrous shadow across his path. He somehow discerned that it would deal
directly with knowledge the saner judgment of a commonplace world had
always deemed undesirable, unlawful, unsafe, dangerous to the souls that
dared attempt it, failure involving a pitiless and terrible Nemesis.

He lay in bed watching the play of the firelight upon the high ceiling,
and thinking in confused fashion of the huge clergyman with his
thundering voice, his great lambent eyes and his seductive gentleness; of
his singular speculations and his hints, half menacing, half splendid, of
things to come. Then he thought of the housekeeper with her deafness and
her withered arm, and that white peace about her face; and, lastly, of
Miriam, soft, pale beneath her dark skin, her gem-like eyes ever finding
his own, and of the intimate personal relations so swiftly established
between them....

It was, indeed, a singular household thus buried away in the heart of
these lonely mountains. The stately old mansion was just the right
setting for--for--

Unbidden into his mind a queer, new thought shot suddenly, interrupting
the flow of ideas. He never understood how or whence it came, but with
the picture of all the empty rooms in the corridor about him, he
received the sharp unwelcome impression that when Mr. Skale described the
house as empty it was really nothing of the sort. Utterly unannounced,
the uneasy conviction took possession of him that the building was
actually--populated. It was an extraordinary idea to have. There was
absolutely nothing in the way of evidence to support it. And with it
flashed across his memory echoes of that unusual catechism he had been
subjected to--in particular the questions whether he believed in
spirits,--"other life," as Skale termed it. Sinister suspicions flashed
through his imagination as he lay there listening to the ashes dropping
in the grate and watching the shadows cloak the room. Was it possible
that there were occupants of these rooms that the man had somehow evoked
from the interstellar spaces and crystallized by means of sound into form
and shape--_created?_

Something freezing swept into him from a region far beyond the world. He
shivered. These cold terrors that grip the soul suddenly without apparent
cause, whence do they come? Why, out of these rather extravagant and
baseless speculations, should have emerged this sense of throttling dread
that appalled him? And why, once again, should he have felt convinced
that the ultimate nature of the clergyman's great experiment was impious,
fraught with a kind of heavenly danger, "unpermissible?"

Spinrobin, lying there shivering in his big bed, could not guess. He only
knew that by way of relief his mind instinctively sought out Miriam, and
so found peace. Curled up in a ball between the sheets his body presently
slept, while his mind, intensely active, traveled off into that vast
inner prairie of his childhood days and called her name aloud. And
presumably she came to him at once, for his sleep was undisturbed and his
dreams uncommonly sweet, and he woke thoroughly refreshed eight hours
later, to find Mrs. Mawle standing beside his bed with thin bread and
butter and a cup of steaming tea.


II

For the rest, the new secretary fell quickly and easily into the routine
of this odd little household, for he had great powers of adaptability.
At first the promise of excitement faded. The mornings were spent in the
study of Hebrew, Mr. Skale taking great pains to instruct him in the
vibratory pronunciation (for so he termed it) of certain words, and
especially of the divine, or angelic, names. The correct utterance,
involving a kind of prolonged and sonorous vibration of the vowels,
appeared to be of supreme importance. He further taught him curious
correspondences between Sound and Number, and the attribution to these
again of certain colors. The vibrations of sound and light, as air and
ether, had intrinsic importance, it seemed, in the uttering of certain
names; all of which, however, Spinrobin learnt by rote, making neither
head nor tail of it.

That there were definite results, though, he could not deny--psychic
results; for a name uttered correctly produced one effect, and uttered
wrongly produced another ... just as a wrong note in a chord afflicts the
hearer whereas the right one blesses....

The afternoons, wet or fine, they went for long walks together about the
desolate hills, Miriam sometimes accompanying them. Their talk and
laughter echoed all over the mountains, but there was no one to hear
them, the nearest village being several miles away and the railway
station--nothing but a railway station. The isolation was severe; there
were no callers but the bi-weekly provision carts; letters had to be
fetched and newspapers were neglected.

Arrayed in fluffy tweeds, with baggy knickerbockers and heavily-nailed
boots, he trotted beside his giant companion over the moors, somewhat
like a child who expected its hand to be taken over difficult places. His
confidence had been completely won. The sense of shyness left him. He
felt that he already stood to the visionary clergyman in a relationship
that was more than secretarial. He still panted, but with enthusiasm
instead of with regret. In the background loomed always the dim sense of
the Discovery and Experiment approaching inevitably, just as in childhood
the idea of Heaven and Hell had stood waiting to catch him--real only
when he thought carefully about them. Skale was just the kind of man, he
felt, who would make a discovery, so simple that the rest of the world
had overlooked it, so tremendous that it struck at the roots of human
knowledge. He had the simple originality of genius, and a good deal of
its inspirational quality as well.

Before ten days had passed he was following him about like a dog, hanging
upon his lightest word. New currents ran through him mentally and
spiritually as the fires of Mr. Skale's vivid personality quickened his
own, and the impetus of his inner life lifted him with its more violent
momentum. The world of an ordinary man is so circumscribed, so
conventionally molded, that he can scarcely conceive of things that may
dwell normally in the mind of an extraordinary man. Adumbrations of
these, however, may throw their shadow across his field of vision.
Spinrobin was ordinary in most ways, while Mr. Skale was un-ordinary in
nearly all; and thus, living together in this intimate solitude, the
secretary got peeps into his companion's region that gradually convinced
him. With cleaned nerves and vision he began to think in ways and terms
that were new to him. Skale, like some big figure in story or legend,
moved forward into his life and waved a wand. His own smaller personality
began to expand; thoughts entered unannounced that hitherto had not even
knocked at the door, and the frontiers of his mind first wavered, then
unfolded to admit them.

The clergyman's world, whether he himself were mad or sane, was a real
world, alive, vibrating, shortly to produce practical results. Spinrobin
would have staked his very life upon it....

And, meanwhile, he made love openly--under any other conditions,
outrageously--to Miriam, whose figure of soft beauty moving silently
about the house helped to redeem it. She rendered him quiet little
services of her own accord that pleased him immensely, for occasionally
he detected her delicate perfume about his room, and he was sure it was
not Mrs. Mawle who put the fresh heather in the glass jars upon his
table, or arranged his papers with such neat precision on the desk.

Her delicate, shining little face with its wreath of dark hair, went
with him everywhere, hauntingly, possessingly; and when he kissed her,
as he did now every morning and every evening under Mr. Skale's very
eyes, it was like plunging his lips into a bed of wild flowers that no
artificial process had ever touched. Something in him sang when she was
near. She had, too, what he used to call as a boy "night eyes"--changing
after dusk into such shadowy depths that to look _at_ them was to look
beyond and through them. The sight could never rest only upon their
surface. Through her eyes, then, stretched all the delight of that old
immense play-ground ... where names clothed, described, and summoned
living realities.

His attitude towards her was odd yet comprehensible; for though his
desire was unquestionably great, it was not particularly active, probably
because he knew that he held her and that no aggressive effort was
necessary. Secure in the feeling that she belonged to him, and he to her,
he also found that he had little enough to say to her, never anything to
ask. She knew and understood it all beforehand; expression was uncalled
for. As well might the brimming kettle sing to the water "I contain you,"
or the water reply "I fill you!"

Only this was not the simile he used. In his own thoughts from the very
beginning he had used the analogy of sound--of the chord. As well might
one note feel called upon to cry to another in the same chord, "Hark! I'm
sounding with you!" as that Spinrobin should say to Miriam, "My heart
responds and sings to yours."

After a period of separation, however, he became charged with things he
wanted to say to her, all of which vanished utterly the moment they came
together. Words instantly then became unnecessary, foolish. He heard that
faint internal singing, and his own resonant response; and they merely
stayed there side by side, completely happy, everything told without
speech. This sense of blissful union enwrapped his soul. In the language
of his boyhood he had found her name; he knew her; she was his.

Yet sometimes they did talk; and their conversations, in any other
setting but this amazing one provided by the wizardry of Skale's
enthusiasm, must have seemed exquisitely ludicrous. In the room, often
with the clergyman a few feet away, reading by the fire, they would sit
in the window niche, gazing into one another's eyes, perhaps even holding
hands. Then, after a long interval of silence Mr. Skale would hear
Spinrobin's thin accents:

"You brilliant little sound! I hear you everywhere within me, chanting a
song of life!"

And Miriam's reply, thrilled and gentle:

"I'm but your perfect echo! My whole life sings with yours!"

Whereupon, kissing softly, they would separate, and Mr. Skale would cover
them mentally with his blessing.

Sometimes, too, he would send for the housekeeper and, with the aid of
the violin, would lead the four voices, his own bass included, through
the changes of various chords, for the vibratory utterance of certain
names; and the beauty of these sounds, singing the "divine names," would
make the secretary swell to twice his normal value and importance (thus
he puts it), as the forces awakened by the music poured and surged into
the atmosphere about them. Whereupon the clergyman would explain with
burning words that many a symphony of Beethoven's, a sonata of
Schumann's, or a suite of Tschaikovsky's were the Names, peaceful,
romantic or melancholy, of great spiritual Potencies, heard partially
by these masters in their moments of inspirational ecstasy. The powers
of these Beings were just as characteristic, their existence just as
real, as the simpler names of the Hebrew angels, and their psychic
influence upon the soul that heard them uttered just as sure and
individual.

"For the power of music, my dear Spinrobin, has never yet by science or
philosophy been adequately explained, and never can be until the occult
nature of sound, and its correlations with color, form, and number is
once again understood. 'Rhythm is the first law of the physical
creation,' says one, 'and music is a breaking into sound of the
fundamental rhythm of universal being.' 'Rhythm and harmony,' declares
Plato, 'find their way into the secret places of the soul.' 'It is the
manifestation,' whispers the deaf Beethoven, 'of the inner essential
nature of all that is,' or in the hint of Leibnitz, 'it is a calculation
which the soul makes unconsciously in secret.' It is 'love in search of a
name,' sang George Eliot, nearer in her intuition to the truth than all
the philosophers, since love is the dynamic of pure spirit. But I," he
continued after a pause for breath, and smiling amid the glow of his
great enthusiasm, "go beyond and behind them all into the very heart of
the secret; for you shall learn that to know the sounds of the Great
Names and to utter their music correctly shall merge yourself into the
heart of their deific natures and make you 'as the gods themselves...!'"

And Spinrobin, as he listened, noticed that a slight trembling ran
across the fabric of his normal world, as though it were about to vanish
and give place to another--a new world of divine things made utterly
simple. For many things that Skale said in this easy natural way, he
felt, were in the nature of clues and passwords, whose effect he
carefully noted upon his secretary, being intended to urge him, with a
certain violence even, into the desired region. Skale was testing him
all the time.


III

And it was about this time, more than half way through the trial month,
that the clergyman took Spinrobin, now become far more than merely
secretary, into his fuller confidence. In a series of singular
conversations, which the bewildered little fellow has reported to the
best of his ability, he explained to him something of the science of true
names. And to prove it he made two singular experiments: first he uttered
the true name of Mrs. Mawle, secondly of Spinrobin himself, with results
that shall presently be told.

These things it was necessary for him to know and understand before they
made the great Experiment. Otherwise, if unprepared, he might witness
results that would involve the loss of self-control and the failure,
therefore, of the experiment--a disaster too formidable to contemplate.

By way of leading up to this, however, he gave him some account first of
the original discovery. Spinrobin asked few questions, made few comments;
he took notes, however, of all he heard and at night wrote them up as
best he could in his diary. At times the clergyman rose and interrupted
the strange recital by moving about the room with his soft and giant
stride, talking even while his back was turned; and at times the
astonished secretary wrote so furiously that he broke his pencil with a
snap, and Mr. Skale had to wait while he sharpened it again. His inner
excitement was so great that he almost felt he emitted sparks.

The clue, it appears, came to the clergyman by mere chance, though he
admits his belief that the habits of asceticism and meditation he had
practiced for years may have made him in some way receptive to the
vision, for as a vision, it seems, the thing first presented itself--a
vision made possible by a moment of very rapid hypnosis.

An Anglican priest at the time, in charge of a small Norfolk parish, he
was a great believer in the value of ceremonial--in the use, that is, of
color, odor and sound to induce mental states of worship and
adoration--more especially, however, of sound as uttered by the voice,
the human voice being unique among instruments in that it combined the
characteristics of all other sounds. Intoning, therefore, was to him a
matter of psychic importance, and it was one summer evening, intoning, in
the chancel, that he noticed suddenly certain very curious results. The
faces of two individuals in the congregation underwent a charming and
singular change, a change which he would not describe more particularly
at the moment, since Spinrobin should presently witness it for himself.

It all happened in a flash--in less than a second, and it is probable,
he holds, that his own voice induced an instant of swift and passing
hypnosis upon himself; for as he stood there at the lectern there came
upon him a moment of keen interior lucidity in which he realized beyond
doubt or question what had happened. The use of voice, bell, or gong,
has long been known as a means of inducing the hypnotic state, and
during this almost instantaneous trance of his there came a sudden
revelation of the magical possibilities of sound-vibration. By some
chance rhythm of his intoning voice he had hit upon the exact pitch,
quality and accent which constituted the "Note" of more than one member
of the congregation before him. Those particular individuals, without
being aware of the fact, had at once responded, automatically and
inevitably. For a second he had heard, he knew, their true names! He had
unwittingly "called" them.

Spinrobin's heart leaped with excitement as he listened, for this idea of
"Naming True" carried him back to the haunted days of his childhood
clairvoyance when he had known Winky.

"I don't _quite_ understand, Mr. Skale," he put in, desirous to hear a
more detailed explanation.

"But presently you shall," was all the clergyman vouchsafed.

The clue thus provided by chance he had followed up, but by methods hard
to describe apparently. A corner of the veil, momentarily lifted, had
betrayed the value that lies in the repetition of certain sounds--the
rhythmic reiteration of syllables--in a word, of chanting or incantation.
By diving down into his subconscious region, already prepared by long
spiritual training, he gradually succeeded in drawing out further details
piece by piece, and finally by infinite practice and prayer welding them
together into an intelligible system. The science of true-naming slowly,
with the efforts of years, revealed itself. His mind slipped past the
deceit of mere sensible appearances. Clair-audiently he heard the true
inner names of things and persons....

Mr. Skale rose from his chair. With thumbs in the armholes of his
waistcoat and fingers drumming loudly on his breast he stood over the
secretary, who continued making frantic notes.

"That chance discovery, then, made during a moment's inner vision," he
continued with a grave excitement, "gave me the key to a whole world of
new knowledge, and since then I have made incredible developments. Listen
closely, Mr. Spinrobin, while I explain. And take in what you can."

The secretary laid down his pencil and notebook. He sat forward in an
attitude of intense eagerness upon the edge of his chair. He was
trembling. This strange modern confirmation of his early Heaven of wonder
before the senses had thickened and concealed it, laid bare again his
earliest world of far-off pristine glory.

"The ordinary name of a person, understand then, is merely a sound
attached to their physical appearance at birth by the parents--a
meaningless sound. It is not their true name. That, however, exists
behind it in the spiritual world, and is the accurate description of
the soul. It is the sound you express visibly before me. The Word is
the Life."

Spinrobin surreptitiously picked up his pencil; but the clergyman spied
the movement. "Never mind the notes," he said; "listen closely to me."
Spinrobin obeyed meekly.

"Your ordinary outer name, however," continued Mr. Skale, speaking with
profound conviction, "may be made a conductor to your true, inner one.
The connection between the two by a series of subtle interior links forms
gradually with the years. For even the ordinary name, if you reflect a
moment, becomes in time a sound of singular authority--inwoven with the
finest threads of your psychical being, so that in a sense you _become_
it. To hear it suddenly called aloud in the night--in a room full of
people, in the street unexpectedly--is to know a shock, however small, of
increased vitality. It touches the imagination. It calls upon the soul
built up around it."

He paused a moment. His voice boomed musically about the room, even after
he ceased speaking. Bewildered, wondering, delighted, Spinrobin drank in
every word. How well he knew it all.

"Now," resumed the clergyman, lowering his tone unconsciously, "the first
part of my discovery lies in this: that I have learned to pronounce the
ordinary names of things and people in such a way as to lead me to their
true, inner ones--"

"But," interrupted Spinrobin irrepressibly, "how in the name of--?"

"Hush!" cried Skale quickly. "Never again call upon a mighty name--in
vain. It is dangerous. Concentrate your mind upon what I now tell you,
and you shall understand a part, at least, of my discovery. As I was
saying, I have learned how to find the true name by means of the false;
and understand, if you can, that to pronounce a true name correctly means
to participate in its very life, to vibrate with its essential nature, to
learn the ultimate secret of its inmost being. For our true names are the
sounds originally uttered by the 'Word' of God when He created us, or
'called' us into Being out of the void of infinite silence, and to repeat
them correctly means literally--to--speak--with--His--Voice. It is to
speak the truth." The clergyman dropped his tone to an awed whisper.
"Words are the veils of Being; to speak them truly is to lift a corner of
the veil."

"What a glory! What a thing!" exclaimed the other under his breath,
trying to keep his mind steady, but losing control of language in the
attempt. The great sentences seemed to change the little room into a
temple where sacred things were about to reveal themselves. Spinrobin now
understood in a measure why Mr. Skale's utterance of his own name and
that of Miriam had sounded grand. Behind each he had touched the true
name and made it echo.

The clergyman's voice brought his thoughts back from distances in that
inner prairie of his youth where they had lost themselves.

"For all of us," he was repeating with rapt expression in his shining
eyes, "are Sounds in the mighty music the universe sings to God, whose
Voice it was that first produced us, and of whose awful resonance we are
echoes therefore in harmony or disharmony." A look of power passed into
his great visage. Spinrobin's imagination, in spite of the efforts that
he made, fluttered with broken wings behind the swift words. A flash of
the former terror stirred in the depths of him. The man was at the heels
of knowledge it is not safe for humanity to seek....

"Yes," he continued, directing his gaze again upon the other, "that is a
part of my discovery, though only a part, mind. By repeating your outer
name in a certain way until it disappears in the mind, I can arrive at
the real name within. And to utter it is to call upon the secret soul--to
summon it from its lair. 'I have redeemed thee; I have called thee by
name.' You remember the texts? '_I know thee by name_,' said Jehovah to
the great Hebrew magician, '_and thou art mine_.' By certain rhythms and
vibratory modulations of the voice it is possible to produce harmonics of
sound which awaken the inner name into life--and then to spell it out.
Note well, to _spell_ it,--spell--incantation--the magical use of
sound--the meaning of the Word of Power, used with such terrific effect
in the old forgotten Hebrew magic. Utter correctly the names of their
Forces, or Angels, I am teaching you daily now," he went on reverently,
with glowing eyes and intense conviction; "pronounce them with full
vibratory power that awakens all their harmonics, and you awaken also
their counterpart in yourself; you summon their strength or
characteristic quality to your aid; you introduce their powers actively
into your own psychical being. Had Jacob succeeded in discovering the
'Name' of that 'Angel' with whom he wrestled, he would have become one
with its superior power and have thus conquered it. Only, he asked
instead of commanded, and he found it not..."

"Magnificent! Splendid!" cried Spinrobin, starting from his chair,
seizing with his imagination potently stirred, this possibility of
developing character and rousing the forces of the soul.

"We shall yet call upon the Names, and see," replied Skale, placing a
great hand upon his companion's shoulder, "not aloud necessarily, but by
an inner effort of intense will which sets in vibration the finer
harmonics heard only by the poet and magician, those harmonics and
overtones which embody the psychical element in music. For the methods of
poet and magician, I tell you, my dear Spinrobin, are identical, and all
the faiths of the world are at the heels of that thought. Provided you
have faith you can--move mountains! You can call upon the very gods!"

"A most wonderful idea, Mr. Skale," faltered the other breathlessly,
"quite wonderful!" The huge sentences deafened him a little with their
mental thunder.

"And utterly simple," was the reply, "for all truth is simple."

He paced the floor like a great caged animal. He went down and leaned
against the dark bookcase, with his legs wide apart, and hands in his
coat pockets. "To name truly, you see, is to evoke, to create!" he
roared from the end of the room. "To utter as it should be uttered any
one of the Ten Words, or Creative Powers of the Deity in the old Hebrew
system, is to become master of the 'world' to which it corresponds. For
these names are still in living contact with the realities behind. It
means to vibrate with the powers that called the universe into being
and--into form."

A sort of shadowy majesty draped his huge figure, Spinrobin thought, as
he stood in semi-darkness at the end of the room and thundered forth
these extraordinary sentences with a conviction that, for the moment at
least, swept away all doubt in the mind of his listener. Dreadful ideas,
huge-footed and threatening, rushed to and fro in the secretary's mind.
With minor variations in detail, these types remained constant for the
temples of Greece and Rome. The principal alterations occurred in the
extension of the temple proper, at the expense of the surrounding colonnade.
In the Archaic temples, such as the older temples of Selinus in
Sicily (sixth century B.

C.), the portico and colonnade occupy three-quarters of the site.
In the temple of Hephaestus (Theseion) at Athens (fifth century B.

C.) the cella occupies only a little more than half the total area, and in
the Parthenon, built some twenty years later, the size of the cella
is still further increased. Most of these temples were covered in.
Hypaethral temples, in which the cella was open to the sky, are mentioned
by Vitruvius, and it is probable that some of the larger ones at
any rate were partly open to the sky.

But how the openings were arranged is almost entirely a matter of conjecture.
The roof used was of a very flat pitch, one of height to four of base,
later it was even flatter, and this dictated the slope of the pediments.
This roof covered the whole of the building, that is, both the cella
and the colonnades on either side of it, and as the Greeks were
ignorant of the principle of the triangulated truss built up of
beams in compression and tension, they were at a loss to know how
to carry their roof without pushing out their walls.

Hence the great solidity of their buildings, and the rather clumsy expedient
of the colonnades in the interiors of temples which appear to have been
the only means they could think of to carry the roof. One has to bear it
in mind in thinking of Greek architecture, that the Greeks were not
constructors in the sense that the Romans were; they built well, and
the best of their masonry was extraordinarily skilful--only by unusual
skill in the cutting and setting of stone could they have carried out the
delicate curves in the columns and other parts of their buildings--but
construction, in the sense of the invention of new methods to meet
difficult conditions, did not interest the Greek, and one cannot
help thinking that the Greeks may have been more successful with
the outside of their buildings than with the inside.

It seems clear that they devoted most of their attention to the
external elevations.

It is not really known for certain how they lit their temples, though of
course all sorts of suggestions of top-lighting have been made. It is
possible that in some cases they were lit only from the principal entrance,
and it is certain that the Greek did not want for the interior of his
temple any such floods of light as are necessary under our northern
skies. In the first place, he enjoyed a most brilliant and penetrating
light, so that within his colonnades reflected light was amply
sufficient to show the friezes and other ornaments, and he did not
hesitate to use strong primary colours to heighten and explain their
effect, wherever he found it necessary.

In the second place, within the shrine itself, other considerations
came into play. A certain luminous atmosphere, rather than positive
light was what was aimed at, and the deep shadows of these internal
colonnades might have helped this effect, adding to the mystery of the
figure of the God.

[134] Vitruvius gives this as the 'aedes in antis'.

[135] Pro-style (colonnade in front).

[136] Amphipro-style (colonnade at both ends).

[137] Peripteral (single colonnade all round).

[138] Dipteral (double colonnade all round).

[139] Pseudo-dipteral (inner row of columns omitted).

This, too, may be the explanation of what must strike an architect as
an anomaly of design, the Greek habit of placing enormous figures in
the interior of their temples. The Greek, in his own way, was a very
religious man. In his temple, he was doing his utmost to set forth the
majesty of his God, and if it was necessary for this purpose he was
even prepared to sacrifice his principles as an artist, to ignore
the scale of his interior and the rhythmic harmony of his design,
by the introduction of gigantic figures.

The eye judges by what it knows, and the readiest way of arriving
at some idea of the size of a building or a monument is by relating
it to the normal size of the human figure.

Vitruvius, in his confused way, suggested that the human figure was
the canon and standard of architectural design, but how is it
possible to determine the scale of a building which contained a
figure at least six times the size of a man, reaching from the floor
to the roof?

The chryselephantine figure of Zeus at Olympia, made by Pheidias, is
supposed to have been some thirty-five feet high, and to have reached
nearly to the roof, passing the double tier of columns and the gallery
above the aisles of the cella.

Moreover, this god was represented as seated on his throne, so that by no
possibility could it have been in scale with the building so far
as the architecture was concerned.

Even the gigantic temple of Zeus at Agrigentum with its external columns
61 ft. 9 in. in height, and large enough for a man to stand within one
of the flutings of the columns, could hardly have stood up to figures
on such a scale as this. Such a violent contrast in scale broke the principle
of συμμετρια {symmetria}, that strict relation of the part to the whole
which the Greek artists maintained elsewhere with scrupulous care. Artists
with such a consummate sense of proportion as the Greeks possessed
would hardly have made a mistake here, and the conclusion one comes to is
that where their religion was in question, everything had to give
way.

Indeed, one can imagine the tremendous effect of this colossal figure
seen dimly in the half-light of the cella, filling the whole temple
with its presence.

The same anomaly in scale occurred in the Akropolis at Athens, where
the vast figure of Athene Promachos must have reduced the beautiful
Caryatides of the Erechtheum to insignificance. M.
Choisy makes a gallant effort to show that this want of relationship
in scale, and also in the siting of the temples, was deliberate and
considered. As a fact, the general rule that seems to have been observed
in the time of Pericles was that new temples should always be built on
the site of the older ones,[140] but axis lines were neglected, and even
the masses of the Propylaea, beautiful building as it must have
been, did not balance.

The Akropolis was just a collection of unrelated buildings, and in the
great Temenos of Delphi the various monuments were all anyhow.[141]
The Sacred Way meandered about like an S, and the only method it observed
was to clear the various treasuries and shrines which appear to have been
scattered about within the enclosure, with a disregard of each other
little less than brutal--a rather suggestive symbol of the internecine
rivalry of the small Greek states.

At Delphi, also, there was a huge figure of Apollo Sitalkas said to have
been seventeen metres high, which must have been hopelessly out of scale.
The fact was that Greek architects of the fifth century had not yet arrived
at the conception of the city as a whole. They had an admirable
eye for a site, for example, the position of the Parthenon itself, and
the temple of Hera Lacinia at Agrigentum placed high above the
sea, but it is unhistorical to invest even the architects of the
Parthenon and the Propylaea with a knowledge and outlook which was
not thought of till a hundred years later.

Even the Greek architects and sculptors of the fifth century B. C. were
not omniscient, yet within their limits, in their mastery of what they
set themselves to do, the artists of the age of Pericles remain
unapproachable, and theirs was the Golden Age of Architecture.

They had fixed for all time essential elements of the art, and had set up
a standard of attainment in pure form which no subsequent architecture
has ever been able to reach.

[140] The Erechtheum was an exception.

[141] See _Delphi_, by Dr. Frederick Poulsen, p. 52. It is suggested that
the Sacred Way was in existence before the shrines were built, and
that its wanderings were necessitated by the gradients of the hillside.
No sort of attempt, however, seems to have been made to correct this, or
to treat it as an element of design.

The fall of Athens closed this splendid chapter, but Greek
architecture was by no means done with. The Silver Age, the Hellenistic
art that followed, is of intense interest. With the rise of the Macedonian
monarchy the stage of history shifted from the mainland to the Ionian
colonies on the coast of Asia Minor. Cities such as Ephesus and Miletus
became immensely prosperous, Mausolus of Halicarnassus, the Attalids
of Pergamon, possessed wealth that would have been unimaginable to
the Greeks of Marathon.

The City State, fighting desperately for its existence, inspired by high
ideals of patriotism and religion, was a thing of the past. These Greeks
of Ionia were well content to enjoy the comfort and prosperity of a settled
civilization without having to fight for it; and the whole atmosphere of
their existence must have been different from the strenuous life of
Greece in the fifth century.
Moreover, the Ionian Greek, influenced, even if subconsciously, by the
spirit of Asia, was by temperament unable to maintain the intellectual
level of the Doric architecture of the mainland; and a difference appears
in the whole orientation of art, in sculpture perhaps even more
than in architecture.

The history of Hellenistic art has yet to be written. It has been described
as decadent, and it was undoubtedly responsible for some very poor
stuff, but it also produced the 'Victory' of Samothrace, one of the
finest things ever done in sculpture, and some very remarkable
developments in architecture.

It is not to be judged by the standards of the art that preceded it. The
Ionian Greek of the fourth and third centuries B. C. broke away from the
tradition of the mainland, a tradition always rather alien to his
instincts. His interest lay less in a somewhat impersonal religion
than in the assertion of his own individuality.

He did not understand the lofty patriotism, and the high ideal of abstract
beauty that had inspired Pericles and his artists in the Akropolis;
indeed, there is a curiously modern feeling about much of his
work, which became more marked as he came under the dominance of Rome.
The individualism, the realism, the revivalism, and the commercialism
of modern art, were all anticipated by the Hellenistic artists of
Ionia, of Rhodes, of Alexandria, and of Athens itself in the Roman
period.

Civilization was becoming more complex, and one finds this reflected in
Hellenistic art, at once more florid than the Doric of the fourth century,
yet also more skilful in its handling of complicated problems of
planning and design.

No one wanted archaic simplicity when the wealth of Asia was flowing
into the treasuries of the Ionian states, and the expression of this
opulent ease is found in their magnificent temples, such as the third
temple of Artemis at Ephesus, of which the outer colonnade measured
342 ft. 6 in. by 163 ft. 9 in., or the vast temple of Apollo Didymaeus
at Miletus, 165 ft. wide by 360 ft. long out to out of the colonnades;
or the amazing monument of Mausolus of Caria at Halicarnassus, or the
great altar of Pergamon. Fragments of the columns of the Temple of
Artemis, now in the British Museum, tell of its size and richness,
they also give the first hint of the downfall of art and civilization
which was to follow centuries later. The Greeks of the great period
had kept the structural parts of their building free of ornament.

It would never have occurred to them to interfere with the lines of
the column in any way that would contradict its purpose; but the
Greek architects of Ephesus not only placed their columns on pedestals
(making them so far less stable in appearance), but they adorned the
lower part of their Ionic columns with figures, of admirable execution,
but perfectly inappropriate in the position they occupy. One cannot imagine
Pheidias making a mistake such as this.

Splendid in execution as Hellenistic sculpture often was, it won its
place at the expense of architecture; one looks in vain for that selection
and restraint which give its undying distinction to the earlier
work.

[Illustration: Fig. 4. TEMPLE OF THESEUS, ATHENS]
The Greeks of the fifth century realized that architecture is an art with
a definite purpose other than that of a mere vehicle for sculpture, and
that it makes its aesthetic appeal by its own inherent qualities of
rhythm, and proportion, spacing, mass, and outline.

Though they used sculpture and colour to heighten and intensify the
effect of their architecture, they saw very clearly the function
of the arts in relation to each other, and kept their sculpture and their
colour in strict relation to the aesthetic purpose of their
architecture.

It is a point on which later architects went lamentably astray. A great
deal of early Renaissance work is mere ornamentation of buildings,
indeed in buildings such as the Certosa of Pavia the architecture
has almost ceased to exist; and most of the bad architecture of the last
fifty years is due to the deplorable fallacy that ornament is
architecture.

The columns of Ephesus, the sculpture of the altar of Pergamon,
brilliant as they were in technical accomplishment, were the first hint
of that decline which was in time to undermine the whole fabric
of the Arts.

Architecture was deposed from its high intellectual dominance.

It tended more and more to become a conventional affair, and it was an
easy transition from the exuberance of Hellenistic art to the
point-blank vulgarity of Roman ornamental architecture.

It was, however, inevitable that the fine simplicity of Periclean art
should vanish with its ideals, and one finds a certain compensation in
the extension of the range and outlook of architecture, which we
owe to the Hellenistic architects of the fourth and succeeding
centuries B.

C.
So far as perfection of form was concerned, it was impossible to carry
the art beyond the stage to which Ictinus and Callicrates had brought
it; but there still remained something, and something very important,
to be done. Axial planning, the consideration of the relation of
building to building, seem to have been outside the consciousness of Greeks
of the fifth century, and each building was treated as an unrelated
unit.
But the inconvenience of this, its loss of opportunity, and the
necessity of order and method, must have become apparent, as civilization
became more complex and more exacting.

By the end of the fourth century B. C. the tradition of architectural
technique was firmly established, and architects were able to turn
their attention to problems of large planning, and these they seem
to have handled with extraordinary skill. So far, what had been done
in this direction had been due to religious inspiration, as in the
processional ways leading to the Egyptian temples or the avenue of figures
at Branchidae.

What the Hellenistic architects did was to think out consecutive schemes
of city planning, in which the dominant motive of arrangement was
artistic. They had learnt to treat the temples, the public buildings,
the open spaces and approaches, as the elements of one harmonious
composition, in which the utmost use was made of the natural opportunities
of the site. At Ephesus, for example, there is supposed to have
existed a consecutive scheme, larger than anything of the kind carried
out even in France in the eighteenth century, though the evidence, it
should be noted, is largely conjectural.

As presented by sanguine and enthusiastic restorers the scheme was
magnificent. Next the port, and facing it on one side, was the
Arsenal, a regular building opening on to a court surrounded by
a colonnade, which again opened on to the great 'Place', a square
enclosure some 850 ft. wide north and south, by 650 ft. east and
west,[142] surrounded by a colonnade on all four sides, with exhedrae,
or semicircular recesses. In the centre of this Place was an oblong
water-piece, about 300 ft. by 200 ft., and on the farther side,
opposite the Arsenal buildings, were the Senate House and other public
buildings; and behind these and to the right and left of them the
Theatre and the Stadium, partly excavated in Mount Coressus.

The Arsenal, the great Place with its water-piece, and the public buildings,
were laid out on an axis line, and on a regular rectangulated plan.

[142] The Place Vendôme measures 450 ft. × 420 ft.; Grosvenor Square
about 650 × 530; and Lincoln's Inn Fields about 800 × 630, measured
from wall to wall of buildings.

A scheme such as this (if it is possible to accept a conjectural restoration),
thought out in all its bearings, meant a real advance in the range
of architecture.

It is useless to look for the faultless beauty of the fifth century,
but the resourcefulness and skill of the Hellenistic architects gave a
new meaning to the art; and indeed they might almost be said to have
established the first stage in the development of its modern practice.
It was from these able Hellenistic architects that the Romans learnt the
monumental planning of their cities, and for centuries the architects
most frequently employed were Greeks of Asia Minor. At this point, Hellenistic
architecture merges into Roman, and loses its distinctive character.
Through Roman it passes on to modern architecture, and so in a sense the
chain is complete; but between this later art and pure Greek
architecture there is a great gulf fixed, differences not only of technique
but of outlook, of ideal, and of temperament.

The mighty Doric of Paestum, Selinus, and Segesta, the Theseion and the
Parthenon, remains for all time the perfect expression of the soul of
ancient Greece.

It is one of the ironies of history that when in the fifteenth and
sixteenth centuries scholars and artists awoke to the fact that there
had been a great architecture in the past they should have known
of no other version of it but the Roman. What splendid developments might
have followed if the finer spirits of the Renaissance, Alberti,
Bramante, or Peruzzi, had founded their theories of architecture
on the temples of Sicily and Magna Graecia, instead of on the debased
examples of Imperial Rome!

They, at least, would have caught a glimpse of the beauty of abstract
form and perfect harmony, the secret of which seems to have been
revealed to the Greeks alone among the peoples of the world--and to them
for only a transient period of their history. Unfortunately, when
Greek architecture was discovered in the second half of the eighteenth
century, it became the shibboleth of the 'virtuosi'. The national
traditions, both of France and England, were lost, Greek architecture
became the fashion, and the misguided enthusiasm of pedants and amateurs
insisted on literal reproductions which completed the extinction of
architecture as a vernacular art, and replaced it by the series
of revivalisms from which it has suffered for the last one hundred
and fifty years.

Conscious and deliberate tinkering with the art of architecture ended
by destroying it.

We can never hope to revive Greek architecture, nor should we attempt
to do so.

There was once a well-known Scotch architect who held that the column
and the lintel was the only permissible form of construction, and with
this limitation and ill-selected Greek details he produced some
fantastically ugly buildings. Following a similar line of thought a
famous critic of the last century condemned methods of construction not
sanctioned by the Old Testament. Both were wide of the mark; because,
above and beyond all technical details of architecture is the
spirit in which it is approached, the intellectual outlook of the
artist on his art, and this may express itself in widely differing
forms.

In Greek architecture of the Golden period, that outlook was definite
and distinctive, and it was one that has a very urgent lesson for us
to-day.
The aim and ideal of the Greek was beauty of form, and this beauty,
which he sought in the first instance as the expression of his religion,
ultimately became almost a religion in itself. To the realization
of this ideal he devoted all his powers, sparing himself no pains in
chastening his work till it had attained the utmost perfection
possible.

       He merged himself in this work, without thought of the expression
of himself in his vision of a divine and immutable beauty.

It hardly occurred to him that his individual emotions were worth preserving.
(In the sculpture of the great period the expression of the face is
usually one of unruffled calm.) Although religious emotion was the
source and inspiration of his work, his work was impersonal. He was
aloof from that feverish anxiety for self-revelation which has made much
modern art so interesting pathologically, and so detestable otherwise.
Nor again had he anything of the virtuoso about him. To him technique
was not an end in itself. In Hellenistic art it became so, but not
in the Golden Age.
Indeed, he was sometimes almost careless of exact modelling, and
in architecture he did not use the order as a mere exhibition of
scholarship.

In his search for beautiful form, he stood upon the ancient ways, patient
and serene, moving steadily to his appointed end. 'Ainsi procède le génie
grec, moins soucieux du nouveau que du mieux, il reporte vers
l'épuration des formes l'activité que d'autres dépensent en innovations
souvent stériles, jusqu'à ce qu'enfin il atteigne l'exquise mesure
dans les efforts, et dans les expressions l'absolue justesse

.'[143] There have been rare periods since, when Architecture has moved
with the same calm unhesitating purpose, Gothic architecture, for example,
in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and certain phases of
eighteenth-century architecture in France and England, when tradition
was still active and vital, and artists were content to let well
alone.

[143] Choisy, _History of Architecture_, vol. i, p. 298.

Modern conditions seem to be wholly against the Greek standpoint in
art.
The Arts are in the melting-pot, the old standards of attainment are
trampled under foot, and the prophets prophesy falsely. Quite lately
we were asked to find our inspiration in the fetishes of the Gold Coast,
and if the aim of the artist is to outstrip his brethren in brutality,
the advice is sound. A recent critic justified the antics of certain
artists by the necessity they were under of advertising themselves.
That, no doubt, is the readiest way to immediate success. But the
question for the critic is, not the personal advancement of the
artist but the value of his work; and one would ask if any good work at
any period in the history of art has been inspired by this ambition
to shout louder than one's neighbours.

Certainly, the standpoint of the Greek was the exact opposite. He did not
seek advertisement and notoriety. He was happy with his inner vision of
beauty, and intent only on its realization. He had not the smallest desire
to shock or startle any one. There are occasions when shock tactics are
necessary, but they are not necessary every day in the week, nor is it
necessary to make a clean sweep of the past before one sets to work in
one's own little corner of art.

What is wanted in modern art is some consciousness of this old Greek
spirit, some recognition of its value.

The Greeks of the age of Pericles wanted neither revivalism nor revolution;
they moved forward, without haste or anxiety, on traditional lines,
and they were able to do so because their art was so interwoven
with their life that, in the plastic arts, they could no more have
changed their methods of expression than they could have changed
their manner of speech.

That high outlook on life is lost and hardly to be recovered under
modern conditions of social life and political government. It was perhaps
only possible under the true democracy of the small Greek city
state, when every citizen took his share in the ordered life of the
community.

Yet the Greek ideal remains. In our fitful fever of honest intention and
wrong judgement, high endeavour and point-blank commercialism,
Greek art, the art of Pheidias and Ictinus, is still the wise mother
to whom we must return.

The lesson of the Parthenon is the lesson of a steadfast vision of
beauty, held high above individual effort and failure, realizing
itself not in complex detail or calculated eccentricity, but in a
serene and exquisite simplicity of form.

It teaches us that in the arts there are no short cuts, and that
anarchy, the destruction of what has been won for us in the past,
is not advance but the straight road to the bottomless pit of
barbarism.

Instead of repudiating the work of his fathers, the Greek carried it
on to its perfection, and built his palace of art on a sure
foundation because he turned neither to the right hand nor to the left,
but steadily set his face towards the light.

But side by side with the vague terror of the unknown he was conscious
also of a smaller and more personal pang. For a man may envy other forms,
yet keenly resent the possible loss or alteration of his own. And he
remembered the withered arm and the deafness.

"But," he faltered, yet ashamed of his want of courage, "I don't want to
lose my present shape, or--come back--without--"

"Have no fear," exclaimed the other with decision. "Miriam and myself
have not been experimenting in vain these three weeks. We have found your
name. We know it accurately. For we are all one chord, and as I promised
you, there is no risk." He stopped, lowering his voice; and, taking the
secretary by the arm with a fatherly and possessive gesture, "Spinrobin,"
he whispered solemnly, "you shall learn the value and splendor of your
Self in the melody of the Universe--that burst of divine music! You shall
understand how closely linked you are to myself and Mrs. Mawle, but,
closest of all, to Miriam. For Miriam herself shall call your name, and
you shall hear!"

So little Miriam was to prove his executioner, or his redeemer. That was
somehow another matter. The awe with which these experiments of Mr.
Skale's inspired him ebbed considerably as he turned and saw the
appealing, wistful expression of his other examiner. Brave as a lion he
felt, yet timid as a hare; there was no idea of real resistance in him
any longer.

"I'm ready, then," he said faintly, and the girl came up softly to his
side and sought his face with a frank innocence of gaze that made no
attempt to hide her eagerness and joy. She accepted the duty with
delight, proudly conscious of its importance.

"I know thee by name and thou art mine," she murmured, taking his hand.

"It makes me happy, yet afraid," he replied in her ear, returning the
caress; and at that moment the clergyman who had gone to fetch his
violin, returned into the room with a suddenness that made them both
start--for the first time. Very slightly, with the first sign of that
modesty which comes with knowledge he had yet noticed in her, or felt
conscious of in himself, she withdrew, a wonderful flush tinging her pale
skin, then passing instantly away.

"To make you feel absolutely safe from possible disaster," Mr. Skale was
saying with a smile, "you shall have the assistance of the violin. The
pitch and rhythm shall be thus assured. There is nothing to fear."

And Miriam, equally smiling with confidence, led her friend, perplexed
and entangled as he was by the whole dream-like and confusing puzzle--led
him to the armchair she had just vacated, and then seated herself at his
feet upon a high footstool and stared into his eyes with a sweet and
irresistible directness of gaze that at once increased both his sense of
bewilderment and his confidence.

"First, you must speak my name," she said gently, yet with a note of
authority, "so that I may get the note of your voice into myself. Once or
twice will do."

He obeyed. "Miriam ... Miriam ... Miriam," he said, and watched the tiny
reflection of his own face in her eyes, her "night-eyes." The same moment
he began to lose himself. The girl's lips were moving. She had picked up
his voice and merged her own with it, so that when he ceased speaking her
tones took up the note continuously. There was no break. She carried on
the sound that he had started.

And at the same moment, out of the corner of his eye, he perceived that
the violin had left its case and was under the clergyman's beard. The bow
undulated like a silver snake, drawing forth long, low notes that flowed
about the room and set the air into rhythmical vibrations. These
vibrations, too, carried on the same sound. Spinrobin gave a little
uncontrollable jump; he felt as if he had uttered his own death-warrant
and that this instrument proclaimed the sentence. Then the feeling of
dread lessened as he heard Mr. Skale's voice mingling with the violin,
combining exquisitely with the double-stopping he was playing on the two
lower strings; for the music, as the saying is, "went through him" with
thrills of power that plunged into unknown depths of his soul and lifted
him with a delightful sense of inner expansion to a state where fear was
merged in joy.

For some minutes the voice of Miriam, murmuring so close before him that
he could feel her very breath, was caught in the greater volume of the
violin and bass. Then, suddenly, both Skale and violin ceased together,
and he heard her voice emerge alone. With a little rush like that of a
singing flame, it dropped down on to the syllables of his name--his ugly
and ridiculous outer and ordinary name:

"ROBERTSPINROBIN ... ROBERTSPINROBIN ..." he heard; and the sound flowed
and poured about his ears like the murmur of a stream through summer
fields. And, almost immediately, with it there came over him a sense of
profound peace and security. Very soon, too, he lost the sound
itself--did not hear it, as sound, for it grew too vast and enveloping.
The sight of Miriam's face also he lost. He grew too close to her to see
her, as object. Both hearing and sight merged into something more
intimate than either. He and the girl were together--one consciousness,
yet two aspects of that one consciousness.

They were two notes singing together in the same chord, and he had lost
his little personality, only to find it again, increased and redeemed, in
an existence that was larger.

It seemed to Spinrobin--for there is only his limited phraseology to draw
from--that the incantation of her singing tones inserted itself between
the particles of his flesh and separated them, ran with his blood,
covered his skin with velvet, flowed and purred in the very texture of
his mind and thoughts. Something in him swam, melted, fused. His inner
kingdom became most gloriously extended....

His soul loosened, then began to soar, while something at the heart of
him that had hitherto been congealed now turned fluid and alive. He was
light as air, swift as fire. His thoughts, too, underwent a change: rose
and fell with the larger rhythm of new life as the sound played upon
them, somewhat as wind may rouse the leaves of a tree, or call upon the
surface of a deep sea to follow it in waves. Terror was nowhere in his
sensations; but wonder, beauty and delight ran calling to one another
from one wave to the next, as this tide of sound moved potently in the
depths of his awakening higher consciousness. The little reactions of
ordinary life spun away from him into nothingness as he listened to a
volume of sound that was oceanic in power and of an infinite splendor:
the creative sound by which God first called him into form and
being--the true inner name of his soul.

...Yet he no longer consciously listened... no longer, perhaps,
consciously heard. The name of the soul can sound only in the soul, where
no speech is, nor any need for such stammering symbols. Spinrobin for the
first time knew his true name, and that was enough.

It is impossible to translate into precise language this torrent of
exquisite sensation that the girl's voice awakened. In the secret
chambers of his imagination Spinrobin found the _thoughts_, perhaps, that
clothed it with intelligible description for himself, but in speaking of
it to others he becomes simply semi-hysterical, and talks a kind of
hearty nonsense. For the truth probably is that only poetry or music can
convey any portion of a mystical illumination, otherwise hopelessly
incommunicable. The outer name had acted as a conductor to the inner name
beyond. It filled the room, and filled some far vaster space that opened
out above the room, about the house, above the earth, yet at the same
time was deep, deep down within his own self. He passed beyond the
confines of the world into those sweet, haunted gardens where Cherubim
and Seraphim--vast Forces--continually do sing. It floated him off his
feet as a rising tide overtakes the little shore-pools and floats them
into its own greatness, and on the tranquil bosom of these giant swells
he rose into a state that was too calm to be ecstasy, yet too glorious to
be mere exaltation.

And as his own little note of personal aspiration soared with this vaster
music to which it belonged, he felt mounting out of himself into a
condition where at last he was alive, complete and splendidly important.
His sense of insignificance fled. His ordinary petty and unvalued self
dropped away flake by flake, and he realized something of the essential
majesty of his own real Being as part of an eternal and wonderful Whole.
The little painful throb of his own limited personality slipped into the
giant pulse-beat of a universal vibration.

In his normal daily life, of course, he lost sight of this Whole, blinded
by the details seen without perspective, mistaking his little personality
for all there was of him; but now, as he rose, whirling, soaring, singing
in the body of this stupendous music, he understood with a rush of
indescribable glory that he was part and parcel of this great chord--this
particular chord in which Skale, Mrs. Mawle and Miriam also sang their
harmonious existences--that this chord, again, was part of a vaster music
still, and that all, in the last resort, was a single note in the divine
Utterance of God.

That is, the little secretary, for the first time in his existence, saw
life as a whole, and interpreted the vision so wondrous sweet and simple,
with the analogies of sound communicated to his subliminal mind by the
mighty Skale. Whatever the cause, however, the fine thing was that he
saw, heard, knew. He was of value in the scheme. In future he could pipe
his little lay without despair.

Moreover, with a merciless clarity of vision, he perceived an even
deeper side of truth, and understood that the temporary discords were
necessary, just as evil, so-called, is necessary for the greater final
perfection of the Whole. For it came to him with the clear simplicity of
a child's vision that the process of attuning his being to the right note
must inevitably involve suffering and pain: the awful stretching of the
string, the strain of the lifting vibrations, the stress at first of
sounding in harmony with all the others, and the apparent loss of one's
own little note in order to do so...

This point he reached, it seems, and grasped. Afterwards, however, he
entered a state where he heard things no man can utter because no
language can touch transcendental things without confining or destroying
them. In attempting a version of them he merely becomes unintelligible,
as has been said. Yet the mere memory of it brings tears to his blue eyes
when he tries to speak of it, and Miriam, who became, of course, his
chief confidant, invariably took it upon herself to stop his futile
efforts with a kiss.

       *       *       *       *       *

So at length the tide of sound began to ebb, the volume lessened and grew
distant, and he found himself, regretfully, abruptly, sinking back into
what by comparison was mere noise. First, he became conscious that he
listened--heard--saw; then, that Miriam's voice still uttered his name
softly, but his ordinary, outer name, Robertspinrobin; that he noticed
her big grey eyes gazing into his own, and her lips moving to frame the
syllables, and, finally, that he was sitting in the armchair, trembling.
Joy, peace, wonder still coursed through him like flames, but dying
flames. Mr. Skale's voice next reached him from the end of the room. He
saw the fireplace, his own bright and pointed pumps, the tea table where
they had drunk tea, and then, as the clergyman strode towards him over
the carpet, he looked up, faint with the farewell of the awful
excitement, into his face. The great passion of the experience still
glowed and shone in him like a furnace.

And there, in that masterful bearded visage, he surprised an expression
so tender, so winning, so comprehending, that Spinrobin rose to his feet,
and taking Miriam by the hand, went to meet him. There the three of them
stood upon the mat before the fire. He felt overwhelmingly drawn to the
personality of the man who had revealed to him such splendid things, and
in his mind stirred a keen and poignant regret that such knowledge could
not be permanent and universal, instead of merely a heavenly dream in the
mind of each separate percipient. Gratitude and love, unknown to him
before, rose in his soul. Spinrobin, his heart bursting as with flames,
had cried aloud, "You have called me by my name and I am free!... You
have named me truly and I am redeemed!..." And all manner of speech,
semi-inspirational, was about to follow, when Mr. Skale suddenly moved to
one side and raised his arm. He pointed to the mirror.

Spinrobin was just tall enough to see his own face in the glass, but
the glimpse he caught made him stand instantly on tiptoe to see more.
For his round little countenance, flushed as it was beneath its fringe
of disordered feathery hair, was literally--transfigured. A glory,
similar to the glory he had seen that same evening upon the face of the
housekeeper, still shone and flickered about the eyes and forehead. The
signature of the soul, brilliant in purity, lay there, transforming the
insignificance of the features with the grandeur and nobility of its
own power.

"I am honored,--too gloriously honored!" was the singular cry that
escaped his lips, vainly seeking words to express an emotion of the
unknown, "I am honored as the sun... and as the stars...!"

And so fierce was the tide of emotion that rose within him at the sight,
so strong the sense of gratitude to the man and girl who had shown him
how his true Self might contain so great a glory, that he turned with a
cry like that of a child bewildered by the loss of some incomprehensible
happiness--turned and flung himself first upon the breast of the big
clergyman, and then into the open arms of the radiant Miriam, with sobs
and tears of wonder that absolutely refused to be restrained.


Chapter VI


I

The situation at this point of his amazing adventure seems to have been
that the fear Spinrobin felt about the nature of the final Experiment was
met and equalized by his passionate curiosity regarding it. Had these
been the only two forces at work, the lightest pressure in either
direction would have brought him to a decision. He would have accepted
the challenge and stayed; or he would have hesitated, shirked, and left.

There was, however, another force at work upon which he had hardly
calculated at the beginning, and that force now came into full
operation and controlled his decision with margin and to spare. He
loved Miriam; and even had he not loved her, it is probable that her
own calm courage would have put him to shame and made him "face the
music." He could no more have deserted her than he could have deserted
himself. The die was cast.

Moreover, if the certainty that Mr. Skale was trafficking in dangerous
and unlawful knowledge was formidable enough to terrify him, for Miriam,
at least, it held nothing alarming. She had no qualms, knew no
uneasiness. She looked forward to the end with calmness, even with joy,
just as ordinary good folk look forward to a heaven beyond death. For she
had never known any other ideal. Mr. Skale to her was father, mother and
God. He had brought her up during all the twenty years of her life in
this solitude among the mountains, choosing her reading, providing her
companionship, training her with the one end in view of carrying out his
immense and fire-stealing purpose.

She had never dreamed of any other end, and had been so drilled with the
idea that this life was but a tedious training-place for a worthier state
to come, that she looked forward, naturally enough, with confidence and
relief to the great Experiment that should bring her release. She knew
vaguely that there was a certain awful danger involved, but it never for
one instant occurred to her that Mr. Skale could fail. And, so far,
Spinrobin had let no breath of his own terror reach her, or attempted
ever to put into her calm mind the least suggestion that the experiment
might fail and call down upon them the implacable and destructive forces
that could ruin them body and soul forever. For this, plainly expressed,
was the form in which his terror attacked him when he thought about it.
Skale was tempting the Olympian powers to crush him.

It was about this time, however, as has been seen from a slight incident
in the last chapter, that a change began to steal, at first
imperceptibly, then obviously, over their relations together. Spinrobin
had been in the house three weeks--far longer, no doubt, than any of the
other candidates. There only remained now the final big tests. The
preliminary ones were successfully passed. Miriam knew that very soon the
moment would come for him to stay--or go. And it was in all probability
this reflection that helped her to make certain discoveries in herself
that at first she did not in the least understand.

Spinrobin, however, understood perfectly. His own heart made him
intuitive enough for that. And the first signs thrilled and moved him
prodigiously. His account of it all is like no love story that has ever
been heard, for in the first place this singular girl hardly breathed
about her the reality of an actual world. She had known nothing beyond
the simple life in this hollow of the hills on the one hand, and on the
other the portentous conceptions that peopled the region of dream
revealed by the clergyman. And in the second place she had no standards
but her own instincts to judge by, for Mrs. Mawle, in spite of her
devotion to the girl, suffered under too great disabilities to fill the
place of a mother, while Mr. Skale was too lost in his vast speculations
to guide her except in a few general matters, and too sure of her at the
same time to reflect that she might ever need detailed guidance. Her
exceedingly natural and wholesome bringing-up on the one hand, and her
own native purity and good sense on the other, however, led her fairly
straight; while the fact that Spinrobin, with his modesty and his fine
aspirations, was a "little gentleman" into the bargain, ensured that no
unlawful temptation should be placed in her way, or undue pressure, based
upon her ignorance, employed.


II

They were coming down one afternoon from the mountains soon after the
test of calling his name, and they were alone, the clergyman being
engaged upon some mysterious business that had kept him out of sight all
day. They did not talk much, but they were happy in each other's company,
Spinrobin more than happy. Much of the time, when the ground allowed,
they went along hand in hand like children.

"Miriam," he had asked on the top of the moors, "did I ever tell you
about Winky--my little friend Winky?" And she had looked up with a smile
and shaken her head. "But I like the name," she added; "I should like to
hear, please." And he told her how as a boy he had invoked various folk
to tease his sister, of whom Winky was chief, but in telling the story he
somehow or other always referred to the little person by name, and never
once revealed his sex. He told, too, how he sat all night on the lawn
outside his sister's window to intercept the expected visit.

"Winky," she said, speaking rather low, "is a true name, of course.
You really created Winky--called Winky into being." For to her now
this seemed as true and possible as it had seemed to himself at the
age of ten.

"Oh, I really loved Winky," he replied enthusiastically, and was at the
same moment surprised to feel her draw away her hand. Every face must
have two eyes, every body two arms, whether they would be visible
under the natural conditions or not.

In early Greek reliefs it is common to find the body down to the waist
full-face, the body below the waist in profile, with no transition
between the two. The well-known metopes from Selinus in Sicily are good
examples.

It is a kind of procedure common to the early art of all peoples.
But the Greeks differ from other nations in this; that when they
improved away these early crudities they retained the predominance
of thought over things, of man over nature, in a word of the ideal
element in art.

They regarded the body of man not, as the materialists do, as man himself,
but as a shell produced by the inner working of the spirit, to be
seen by the eyes of thought and imagination, as well as by the bodily eyes.
Hence they were always aspiring from that which exists in appearance
to that which lies behind the mere phenomenon.

They realized that nature, when she produces an individual, never
wholly succeeds, she falls short of the idea. And the artist by a loving
sympathy with the creative Spirit, may venture to improve what she has
made, to carry out her intentions more fully, to incorporate more
completely the idea. The Greek artist, appreciating and venerating the
body, tries to raise it to a higher and more perfect level. A simple
kind of idealism may be found in athletic art. In their practice
of athletics the Greeks did not, like the moderns, think only of
the number of feet an athlete could leap, or the space of time he
would take to run a distance.

They thought also of his _form_, of the rhythmic and harmonious character
of his action. If an athlete showed ugly form, they would hiss him, as
they would an incompetent actor.

Most of their exercises were done to the accompaniment of the flute. In all
the statues of athletes which have come down to us, not one shows an
inharmonious development, powerful chest and weak legs, or muscular
legs and poor arms.

It is more than probable that as the features of Alexander the Great
influenced the portraits of his officers and followers, so the specially
beautiful forms of some of the athletes who were most admired,
tended to create a type, something of which appears in all the athlete
figures of the time.

       

No doubt any one who is well acquainted with Greek types and with
the forms of modern athletes will observe that the Greek physical
build is not identical with that of our days. The equable climate and the
unstrained life of the young men produced something more rounded and fleshy
than we see in the north. Our athletes are less harmoniously built,
with more prominent sinews, more harsh and wiry in type. An American trainer
who is also a sculptor, Dr. Tait McKenzie, working as some of the Greek
sculptors worked, from the average measurements of a number of young men,
has produced types of strength and beauty, by no means exactly like the
statues of Greece, but in their way almost equally beautiful.

I instance the beautiful fifth-century figures of Greek boxers,
softened by idealism, but admirable for strength and symmetry; and the
Apoxyomenos, a man scraping himself with a strigil, as was the custom
in the baths (Fig. 12). This is a work of the third century, after
the artists had imported their knowledge of anatomy into their works,
which had effects both good and bad. And beside the Apoxyomenos I place
an athlete by Tait McKenzie, produced from the careful comparison and
measurements of hundreds of young athletes of Harvard and Philadelphia
(Fig. 13). This is a work of modern idealism produced by similar processes
to those to which we owe the excellence of Greek athletic
sculpture.

[Illustration: Fig. 12 ATHLETE WITH STRIGIL]
[Illustration: Fig. 13 ATHLETE, by Tait McKenzie]
The types of female beauty come into Greek sculpture later than the
types of male beauty.

In Ionian and early Attic sculpture women appear closely wrapped
up in drapery.

Pheidias and his contemporaries did not venture to represent undraped women.
They showed the beauties of the female form not apart from, but by the
help of, drapery. It was reserved for the age of Praxiteles and Scopas
to represent the Goddess of Love in the guise of a nude woman; and
Praxiteles made an apology for the innovation by introducing the motive
of bathing as an explanation and a palliation.

And even the Aphrodite of Praxiteles is remarkably free from all attempt
at sensuous attraction, or self-consciousness. Solid, noble, and stately
in form, she is a type or model rather than an individual. Later sculptors,
it is true, departed from this line of simple harmoniousness, and tried
to make the figure more attractive to the average man. But it does
not become weak, and it does not become vulgar. The noble Aphrodites of
the fourth century have fixed the type of female beauty in school after
school of artists down to our own time.

This ideal is perhaps for us best incorporated in the Aphrodite of Melos
in the Louvre, a work of the Hellenistic age, combining with the great
fourth-century tradition a perfection of detail and an informing
life which belong to a later time.

But while most people of taste profess a devotion to her, that devotion
is usually untinged by knowledge or real appreciation; for there could
hardly be a greater contrast than that between the bodily forms of the
Goddess of Melos and those of the women who are most admired in
our days.

I was almost disposed to figure side by side the Goddess and the bodily
forms which figure in our fashion plates. The fashion plates do not
represent women as they are, but as they would like to be; they
represent not the actual, but the modern ideal. And what an ideal!

Some readers may smile at the notion of taking seriously these
ephemeral productions. But no one would take them lightly who was
familiar with the facts of psychology. We well know that when
certain types of women are set constantly before the rising generation as
beautiful and to be imitated they will necessarily exercise a great
influence on the future of the race. Young men will look out for such
types to admire and to court: young women will try to resemble them. The
hideous mistake in aesthetics will exercise a constant dragging power,
pulling the young away from the light and the air of heaven towards the
caves of evil spirits.

Few more charming representations of young womanhood in Greece exist than
the Artemis from Gabii already cited (Fig. 5). One must confess that the
divine element in it is but slight. But what could be fresher, simpler,
more exquisitely natural?

No doubt as in the case of men, so in the case of women, we must make
allowance for race and climate. A full and rotund development
of physique is far rarer in northern than in southern Europe. The
English race is taller, less solidly built, slighter than the ancient
Greek.

Among us hard tendons usually take the place of solid muscles. And the
practise of athletic games by women undoubtedly tends to make them in
some respects conform more to the male type. In moderation physical
exercises may improve health and strength without tending to deprive
the vital organs of nourishment. But the overtrained woman is farther
from the healthy life of nature than the overtrained man.

And whether the overexertion
be of the body or of the intelligence, it tends
to destroy true womanliness.

It is a pity that some sculptor does not do for the ideal of womanhood
what Dr.

Tait McKenzie has done for the ideal of athletic manhood.

Of course the process would not be the same. No one wants an ideal type
of the female athlete, unless we wish to restore the race of Amazons, but
we do sorely need to have before our eyes types which embody the
physical ideal of efficient womanhood. At present while nude womanhood
in art conforms in a great measure to the Greek tradition, clothed
womanhood follows the types of the street, modified by the baseless
caprices of fashion.

The two stand in unreconciled contrast. The Greeks when painting women
on a vase often drew their figures in outline before they added
clothes. But any one who tries to draw the outline of the female figure
beneath the clothes on a fashion-plate will stand aghast at what he has
produced.

Cicero repeats an instructive story in regard to the painter Zeuxis, who
lived about 400 B. C. He was commissioned to make for the people of Croton
a painting of Helen of Troy.

He first inquired, what seems to have been a matter of common knowledge,
who were the most beautifully made young men in that city, which
was noted for its athletes.

He next asked that he should be allowed to study the forms of the
sisters of these men, judging that the sisters must partake of the beauty
of the brothers. Out of these he selected five girls for more continued
study, and by such aid produced his picture.

We cannot suppose that he would be so clumsy as to select at random
beautiful details from each of the five; in that way he would produce
only an eclectic monstrosity.

But, working in the presence of beautiful examples, his sense of
beauty would rise in tone to the highest of which he was capable.

In this story several points are noteworthy. It shows that the type
of beauty in men was more advanced and more generally recognized than
the type of beauty in women. And it shows the Greek artistic
mind ever on the watch to catch some new note of beauty to add to the
traditional stock.

Professor Brücke, in his excellent work on the beauties of the human
form, observes that in the ideal statues of Greece many features
may be discovered which in the actual world of men and women are very
rare, but the charm of which can scarcely be disputed.

There went on from school to school, and from period to period, a
sort of accumulation of beauty which was ever increasing.

Every beautiful model which was studied added something to what Brücke calls
the stock of beauty at the disposal of artists.

VI
The sixth lamp of Greek art is _Patience_ in striving after perfection.

In the finer work of Greek sculptors one finds an utterly ungrudging
expenditure of time and care which reminds one of the working of Nature
herself, Nature who is never in a hurry, who is never contented with a
hasty sketch, but works regardless of time. We are told of Protogenes
that he spent seven years on a single figure, and I think he would have
spent seven more if he had thought that he could thereby have improved
his painting. Nothing strikes one more strongly in such works as the
charioteer of Delphi and the Hermes of Praxiteles than the pains taken
with every detail. It is by careful work, continued through successive
generations, that sculpture attained such mastery in the representation
of the muscles of the body as we find in the Borghese fighting
figure of the Louvre, and such delicacy in the rendering of drapery
as we find in the Victories of the Balustrade at Athens, or the
Victory of Samothrace.

But the delicacy and minuteness of Greek work is of course most obvious
in the reliefs of coins and in gems.

The coins were not primarily meant to please the eye, but to circulate
in the fish-market; yet a multitude of the dies are so exquisitely
finished that they lose little when magnified to many diameters,
and will bear the most critical examination. The intaglio gems
were meant for the sealing of documents, the seal taking the place of
the modern signature; but the figures upon seals are in their way as
finished as great works of sculpture. Seals even more usually than coins
gain rather than lose if they are enlarged.
Yet they were executed without the help of magnifying glasses.

Their subjects are taken from the widest field, the figures of deities,
tales from mythology, portraits, animal forms; like the coins they
introduced as an undercurrent to the prosaic life of every day an element
of poetry and imagination.

VII
The seventh lamp, which goes as naturally with idealism as care and patience
go with naturalism, is joy, _joie de vivre_. Keats has expressed the
Greek sense of art in an immortal line, 'A thing of beauty is a joy for
ever'.

It was the overflowing gladness which lies at the root of creation and
evolution which took eternal form in the painting and sculpture of the
Greeks and inspired all their works. The same irrepressible joy which gives
colour to the flowers, sweetness to the fruit, song to the birds,
and sexual desire to mankind reached here one of its most perfect
manifestations.

The life of the Greeks was by no means one of unmixed happiness. Each city
was not unfrequently at war with its neighbours; and the penalty of complete
defeat was sometimes the razing of its walls, the slaughter of its men,
and the enslavement of its women. Disease, even plague, constantly ravaged
the land; and the resources of modern surgery and modern anaesthetics
were not present to curb their ravages. The life of the majority in country
huts, and still more in the slums of the cities, most of all in
the mines, was rougher and more sordid than is the case in the
modern world, in countries in their normal state.

And the people had not even that hope of a blessed hereafter which
sustained the people of the Middle Ages.

Yet under all these clouds, their spirit was hopeful and aspiring. And
their art reflects ever the brighter side of things. Surely they
were wise and right. We seek out works of art not to foster pessimism
but to inspire optimism, not to show us the world of nature
on its repulsive side, but to reveal to us how much underlying beauty
is to be found in it. ''Tis life not death for which we pant, More life
and fuller that we want.'

At the same time, Greek art in some forms was extremely serious and keenly
alive to the darker side of existence. The Greeks invented tragedy, the
poetical reflection of the severity of fate. Would any modern audience
be found, which would be prepared to sit for a whole summer day
listening eagerly to the grand expression by such poets as Aeschylus
and Sophocles of the power of Nemesis, the instability of all
prosperity, the misfortunes which hunt those who have the ill luck
to displease the gods?

Surely not. And not in Greek tragedy only, but in elegiac poetry and in
epigram, we find perfect reflections of our most gloomy moods. But for
such expressions of sorrow and despair the Greeks felt that
sculpture, and even painting, were not suitable vehicles. They belong
to moods, and are not suitable for illustration in the market place
and the temple.

The roads which led to Greek cities were frequently bordered with monumental
tombs. If in the reliefs and inscriptions of these tombs there had been
any telling echo of the sorrow and regret of bereaved survivors, every
one would have entered the cities in a black mood. As it is, as every one
who has been in the museums of Athens knows, the sepulchral artists
carefully avoided anything which might harrow the feelings. They
represented the dead at their best, engaged in victorious warfare, or in
athletic sports or in the happy family circle. A gentle air of melancholy
could not be avoided; but there was nothing to shock, nothing to
oppress the spirits.

The deceased represented seemed still to share the occupations and
pleasures of the living, not to be shut off from the world of
happiness.

Milton has expressed, in his magnificent prose, the profound joy of the
world of the Renaissance at the recovery of the Bible, and free liberty
of reading it, after it had been shut away from the laity by the organized
Church. Equally intense, and more exuberant, was the delight of
scholars and artists, when the asceticism and pessimism of the Middle
Ages, which had given birth to such bodies as the Carmelite monks and
the mendicant friars, gave way before the revival of Greek literature
and art. The world seemed suddenly to have renewed its youth. No doubt the
sudden expansion led to foul excesses; but it was yet a great
landmark in human progress.

VIII
The eighth light of Greek art is _Fellowship_. Perhaps there is no quality
in it which is more instructive for our days than this. The extreme
individualism which is the most remarkable characteristic of modern times
lays the utmost stress on the right or the duty of an artist to
express _himself_ in his work, to work out his own vein of originality,
to give to the world a rendering of his own qualities and individuality.
And no doubt no great artist can help doing this in a measure.

When he works he must be himself; he can only see the world through the
medium of his character and talents. And as every man is a microcosm, a
reflection in miniature of the great world of human beings, what is really
good and original in an artist must appeal to something in the human
world; must have a meaning for people of a certain class or a certain
training, or a certain country. But whether an artist is the better for
a conscious attempt thus to externalize his personality; whether he is
improved by being self-conscious and reflective in his art is a different
question.

Scarcely any feature of Greek art is more impressive to a student
than its continuous and uninterrupted course.

When once it has started it does not turn back, but goes forward steadily,
for a time rising superior to difficulty after difficulty, attaining a
higher and higher level, then in the fifth century branching out
in various directions into styles and groups, then going on with great
technical skill, but with a loss of inspiration. It is a course of evolution
as steady as that of any kind of plant or animal. This shows that it did
not depend upon the rise of successive men of talent or genius, each
of whom was intent on expressing himself; but upon the rise and
influence of successive artistic schools, each of which did not
merely follow the personality of a founder or teacher, but stood
for a phase in the development of the common life of the Greek
people.

The schools were Ionian or Dorian, Attic or Argive, and harmonized with
the whole civilization of such fractions of the race. Ionian art went
with the gay and pleasure-loving ways of the Asiatic coast. Dorian art
reflected the restraint, the balance, the self-control of the people of
Peloponnesus.
Attic art not only conformed to the refined taste of the people of Athens,
but suited also the strong mental bias of the most intellectual city which
ever existed. Of course these schools did not flourish in complete isolation
one from the other; city influenced city and artist artist; but in a
far less degree than would be the case now. A school of sculpture was a
species; and all the individuals of the species were more like one
another than they were like any of their contemporaries outside.

Thus when we examine any work of Greek sculpture, before the eclectic
schools came into being, we find it easy to determine its period, often
within narrow limits, and we are usually able to assign it with confidence
to a particular school, imperfect as is our knowledge of the history of
Greek art. But we can scarcely ever say that it is the work of an individual
artist, unless it stands on a basis bearing the author's name,
or unless ancient critics and historians have left us detailed
descriptions of a work which survives.

I am speaking of Greek originals; the copies of earlier works made by Greek
artists of a late period for Roman galleries are often so confused in style
and so careless in execution that they serve only to mislead, even
if they have escaped the Italian restorer of recent date.

Great and connected series of statues and reliefs, such as constitute the
sculptural adornment of such temples as that of Zeus at Olympia or the
Parthenon or the Mausoleum, are the joint productions of a number of
sculptors who worked together, no doubt under the general supervision
of some architect or chief mason, but probably under very little control.

In the same way it might be splendid to jump into Niagara
just above the falls to snatch a passing flower that seemed more
wonderful than any he had seen before, but--!

"Miriam, tomorrow is my last day," he said suddenly, catching her grey
eyes upon him in the middle of his strange reflections. "Tonight may be
my last night in this house with you."

The girl made no reply, merely looking up and smiling at him. But the
singing sensation that usually accompanied her gaze was not present.

"That was very nearly--a discord," she observed presently, referring to
his remark. "It was out of tune!" And he realized with a touch of shame
what she meant. For it was not true that this was his last evening; he
knew really that he would stay on and that Mr. Skale would accept him.
Quick as a flash, with her simple intuition, she felt that he had said
this merely to coax from her some sign of sympathy or love. And the girl
was not to be drawn. She knew quite well that she held him and that their
fate, whatever it might be, lay together.

The gentle rebuke made him silent again. They sat there smiling at one
another across the table, and old Mrs. Mawle, sitting among the shadows
at the far end of the room, her hands crossed in front of her, her white
evening cap shining like a halo above her patient face, watched them,
also smiling. The rest of the strange meal passed without conversation,
for the great silence that all day had wrapped the hills seemed to have
invaded the house as well and laid its spell upon every room. A deep
hush, listening and expectant, dropped more and more about the building
and about themselves.

After dinner they sat for twenty minutes together before the library
fire, their toes upon the fender, for, contrary to her habit, Miriam had
not vanished at once to her own quarters.

"We're not alone here," remarked Spinrobin presently, in a low voice, and
she nodded her head to signify agreement. The presence of Mr. Skale when
he was in the house but invisible, was often more real and tremendous
than when he stood beside them and thundered. Some part of him, some
emanation, some potent psychic messenger from his personality, kept them
closely company, and tonight the secretary felt it very vividly. His
remark was really another effort to keep in close touch with Miriam, even
in thought. He needed her more than ever in this sea of silence that was
gathering everywhere about him. Gulf upon gulf it rose and folded over
him. His anxiety became every moment more acute, and those black serpents
of fear that he dreaded were not very far away. By every fiber in his
being he felt certain that a test which should shake the very foundations
of his psychical life was slowly and remorselessly approaching him.

Yet, though he longed to speak outright and demand of Miriam what she
knew, and especially that she should reveal the place of the clergyman's
concealment and what portent it was that required all this dread and
muted atmosphere for its preparation, he kept a seal upon his lips,
realizing that loyalty forbade, and that the knowledge of her contempt
would be even worse than the knowledge of the truth.

And so in due course she rose to go, and as he opened the door for her
into the hall, she paused a moment and turned towards him. A sudden
inexplicable thrill flashed through him as she turned her eyes upon his
face, for he thought at first she was about to speak. He has never
forgotten the picture as she stood there so close to his side, the
lamplight on her slim figure in its white silk blouse and neat dark
skirt, the gloom of the unlit hall and staircase beyond--stood there an
instant, then put both her arms about his neck, drew him down to her, and
kissed him gently on both cheeks. Twice she kissed him, then was gone
into the darkness, so softly that he scarcely heard her steps, and he
stood between the shadows and the light, her perfume still lingering, and
with it the sweet and magical blessing that she left behind. For that
caress, he understood, was the innocent childlike caress of their first
days, and with all the power of her loving little soul in it she had
given him the message that he craved: "Courage! And keep a brave heart,
dear Spinny, _tonight_!"


Chapter VIII


I

Spinrobin lingered a while in the library after Miriam was gone, then
feeling slightly ill at ease in the room now that her presence was
withdrawn, put the lights out, saw that the windows were properly barred
and fastened, and went into the hall on his way to bed.

He looked at the front door, tried the chain, and made sure that both
top and bottom bolts were thrown. Why he should have taken these
somewhat unusual precautions was not far to seek, though at the moment
he could not probably have explained. The desire for protection was
awake in his being, and he took these measures of security and defense
because it sought to express itself, as it were, even automatically.
Spinrobin was afraid.

Up the broad staircase he went softly with his lighted candle, leaving
the great hall behind him full to the brim with shadows--shadows that
moved and took shape. His own head and shoulders in monstrous outline
poured over the walls and upper landings, and thence leaped to the
skylight overhead. As he passed the turn in the stairs, the dark
contents of the hall below rushed past in a single mass, like an
immense extended wing, and settled abruptly at his back, following him
thence to the landing.

Once there, he went more quickly, moving on tiptoe, and so reached his
own room halfway down. He passed two doors to get there; another two lay
beyond; all four, as he believed, being always locked. It was these four
rooms that conjured mightily with his imagination always, for these were
the rooms he pictured to himself, though without a vestige of proof, as
being occupied. It was from the further ones--one or other of them--he
believed Mr. Skale came when he had passed down the corridor at two in
the morning, stealthily, hurriedly, on the heels of that rush of sound
that made him shake in his bed as he heard it.

In his own room, however, surrounded by the familiar and personal objects
that reminded him of normal life, he felt more at home. He undressed
quickly, all his candles alight, and then sat before the fire in the
armchair to read a little before getting into bed.

And he read for choice Hebrew--Hebrew poetry, and on this particular
occasion, the books of Job and Ezekiel. For nothing had so soothing and
calming an effect upon him as the mighty yet simple imagery of these
sonorous stanzas; they invariably took him "out of himself," or at any
rate out of the region of small personal alarms. And thus, letting his
fancy roam, it seems, he was delighted to find that gradually the fears
which had dominated him during the day and evening disappeared. He passed
with the poetry into that region of high adventure which his nature in
real life denied him. The verses uplifted him in a way that made his
recent timidity seem the mere mood of a moment, or at least negligible.
His memory, as one thing suggested another, began to give up its dead,
and some of Blake's drawings, seen recently in London with prodigious
effect, began to pass vividly before his mental vision.

The symbolism of what he was reading doubtless suggested the memory. He
felt himself caught in the great invisible nets of wonder that forever
swept the world. The littleness of modern life, compared to that ancient
and profound spirit which sought the permanent things of the soul,
haunted him with curious insistence. He suffered a keen, though somewhat
mixed realization of his actual insignificance, yet of his potential
sublimity could he but identify himself with his ultimate Self in the
region of vision.... His soul was aware of finding itself alternately
ruffled and exalted as he read ... and pondered ... as he visualized to
some degree the giant Splendors, the wonderful Wheels, the spirit Wings
and Faces and all the other symbols of potent imagery evoked by the
imagination of that old Hebrew world....

So that when, an hour later, pacified and sleepy, he rose to go to bed,
this poetry seems to have left a very marked effect upon his
mind--mingled, naturally enough, with the thought of Mr. Skale. For on
his way across the floor, having adjusted the fire-screen, he distinctly
remembered thinking what a splendid "study" the clergyman would have made
for one of Blake's representations of the Deity--the flowing beard, the
great nose, the imposing head and shoulders, the potentialities of the
massive striding figure, surrounded by a pictorial suggestion of all the
sound-forces he was forever talking about....

This thought was his last, and it was without fear of any kind. Merely,
he insists, that his imagination was touched, and in a manner perfectly
accountable, considering the ingredients of its contents at the time.

And so he hopped nimbly into bed. On the little table beside him stood
the candle and the copy of the Hebrew text he had been reading, with its
parallel columns in the two languages. His Jaeger slippers were beneath
the chair, his clothes, carefully folded, on the sofa, his collar, studs
and necktie in a row on the top of the mahogany chest of drawers. On the
mantelpiece stood the glass jar of heather, filled that very day by
Miriam. He saw it just as he blew out the candle, and Miriam,
accordingly, was the last vision that journeyed with him into the country
of dreams and sweet forgetfulness.

The night was perfectly still. Winter, black and hard, lay about the
house like an iron wall. No wind stirred. Snow covered the world of
mountain and moor outside, and Silence, supreme at midnight, poured all
her softest forces upon the ancient building and its occupants.
Spinrobin, curled up in the middle of the big four-poster, slept like a
tired baby.


II

It was a good deal later when somewhere out of that mass of silence rose
the faint beginnings of a sound that stirred first cautiously about the
very foundations of the house, and then, mounting inch by inch, through
the hall, up the staircase, along the corridor, reached the floor where
the secretary slept so peacefully, and finally entered his room. Its
muffled tide poured most softly over all. At first only this murmur was
audible, as of "footsteps upon wool," of wind or drifting snow, a mere
ghost of sound; but gradually it grew, though still gentle and subdued,
until it filled the space from ceiling unto floor, pressing in like water
dripping into a cistern with ever-deepening note as its volume increased.
The trembling of air in a big belfry where bells have been a-ringing
represents best the effect, only it was a trifle sharper in
quality--keener, more alive.

But, also, there was something more in it--something gong-like and
metallic, yet at the same time oddly and suspiciously human. It held a
temper, too, that somehow woke the "panic sense," as does the hurried
note of a drum--some quick emotional timbre that stirs the sleeping
outposts of apprehension and alarm. This doorway is flanked on either
side by columns tapering downwards, and decorated with chevrons in a manner
very similar to Norman work of the eleventh century, and apparently intended
solely for ornament.[130] The entrance opened into a circular domed
chamber about 48 ft. 6 in. in diameter, 45 ft. 4 in. high, out of
which opened another smaller chamber.

The dome, in section, is built on the curve of a parabola, formed
with courses projecting over one another, and not set out radial
to the curve of the dome--in other words it is not a true dome or arch,
but a succession of corbels. The internal face of the dome is dressed
down, and was covered with ornament of some sort, whether metal rosettes,
or enamelled terra-cotta, or wholly in metal, possibly the famous gold
of Mycenae, is not known. The whole of this chamber was covered in with
a mound of earth, in accordance with the primitive custom of concealing
the chieftain's grave.

It is impossible to find, in this extremely interesting monument or in the
domed chamber of Orchomenos in Boeotia, any trace of future
developments in Greek architecture. Both in intention and in its psychological
background it seems almost as remote from the Doric Temple as the
Great Pyramid itself.

In point of fact architecture was still in a rudimentary stage.
It has been proved abundantly that Architecture comes late in the
sequence of the Arts.

People could draw well, long before they could design. Among the cavemen,
for example, there were admirable draughtsmen, but they had to
make their drawings on the sides of caves.

That there existed in the Minoan and Mycenaean ages skilful
potters and metal-workers, is shown by the vases of Knossos and the gold
cups found at Vaphio near Sparta; that they built habitable buildings
and decorated them to the best of their ability is also proved, as,
for example, the palace of Tiryns, but it has not yet been shown
that their builders reached the degree of skilled design, at which
building becomes architecture.

Architecture had not yet found itself in Greece.

[130] Portions of these columns are now in the British Museum.

Then somewhere about 1000 B. C. came the Dorian invasions, and the art of
Crete and Mycenae vanished into space--possibly the legend was
right which said that the conquered people of the mainland carried it
away with them to Asia. Anyhow, the three or four centuries following
the Dorian invasions are a blank which future research may fill out
for us, and so far as art is concerned, there appears to have been a
_détente_, during which the new race was settling down to its
conquest, finding itself, and assimilating something at any rate
of the older civilization.

The survival of such buildings as the Treasury of Atreus show that the
Dorians were not simple barbarians, destroying all that came in their
way. Even Sparta in its earlier days was not a mere military machine.
Discoveries made in 1906-9 suggest that from the ninth to the seventh
centuries B. C. Sparta had some sort of an art of its own showing
traces of Asiatic influence in its pottery--a little later Sparta concluded
an alliance with Croesus, King of Lydia, and Bathycles, an artist
of Magnesia in Ionia, was treated with honour in Sparta.

The Dorians were something more than fighters, they seem to have possessed
some sort of civilization, and to have been endowed with a natural capacity
for the arts, which after two or three centuries of experiment will
find its own splendid expression within very definite and original lines.
The legend of the return of the Heracleidae was to be justified
by their later history. No merely imitative race could have evolved the
perfect manner of the great Doric temples from the scraps of Egypt and
the East, and the rudimentary buildings of Crete and Mycenae.

Greek architecture for the purpose of this study is Dorian architecture,
and its elements are simple. It was evolved in the design of their
temples, and with the exception of their theatres it was summed
up in these temples.

From the period during which Greek architecture was being built up to
its maturity, say from the seventh century B. C. to the completion of the
Parthenon in the fifth century B. C., the whole life of the Greek was
coloured and dominated by his religion and its observances; and his
religion was not the sinister mystery of Egypt, but on the whole a
cheerful open-air Pantheism that gloried in the life and beauty
of the visible world in which he lived.

He himself was content to live in a poor house, so long as he had his
market-place, his ceremonial theatre, and the glorious temples of
his Gods.

Moreover, to whatever depths the Athenians may have sunk in the time of
St.

Paul, in the heroic days of Pericles they were remarkable for constancy
of purpose and the steadfastness of their ideals. They stood on the
ancient ways, and it never occurred to them to abandon the tradition of
their fathers, their business was to carry it forward to perfection.
The result was that the architecture of their temples proceeded on lines
that long use had made sacrosanct; and its technique is summed up in
the history of two orders, the Doric and the Ionic.[131]
[131] The order, I may say for the uninitiated, means the complete
ordonnance of the column, the architrave resting immediately on its
capital, the frieze and the cornice. It is the final expression
of the simple device of the post and lintel, of the beam resting on the
heads of two or more posts; and there is little doubt that in its
ultimate origin, the Order is the translation into stone of the details
of a rudimentary wooden construction.

Now, the order, its character, dimensions and disposition, with the wall
of the Cella (or enclosed shrine) within the colonnade, summed up
the elements, the vocabulary, if one may so put it, of Greek
architecture; and we come here at the outset on a curious quality
of the Greek genius, and one that differentiates it from the Roman.

The properties of wood and stone as materials are clearly different,
things can be done with the one which are impossible with the other; but
the Greeks either did not realize this or did not trouble their heads
about it. They found that the post and lintel was a simple means of
building, and they adopted it as their permanent method of construction.
If the span became too wide, they thickened the posts (the columns of
Paestum are 7 ft. in diameter) and increased the strength of the beam
(the architrave). Hence the vast solidity of the Doric order of the
temples of Sicily and Magna Graecia. The Greek was incurious
about construction _qua_ construction.
He found, in the column and the lintel, means perfectly adequate to realize
his ideal of high unalterable beauty, and he was content.

The Romans, who for a time were satisfied with these simple methods,
became impatient of the constructive limitation of the post and
lintel. They wanted to cover in great spaces, and to leave the floor
unencumbered; and concentrating on this they arrived at the arch,
the vault, and the dome, and so became the greatest builders of
the world. To them, the orders were a mere appanage of decoration, which
they never properly appreciated, of which they mistook the intention,
adopted the worst elements, and often enough made a gross misuse. The
Greeks took another line.

They adopted the column and lintel once for all as the only possible
method of construction, and devoted all their labours to the incessant
refinement of this type, eliminating the unessential, arriving by constant
selection at the most perfect expression of their purpose, and their
purpose was not that of the Roman and the modern architect,
mainly utilitarian, it was directed entirely to the aesthetic appeal,
the appeal to the emotions through beauty of line, of form, and
in a less degree of colour. 'The whole fabric of Greek art goes
to pieces when it is brought into contact with a purely utilitarian
nation like Rome.'[132]
[132] _Hellenistic Sculpture_, by Guy Dickins, p. 85. The author, who
wrote with something of the insight of the artist as well as the
accurate knowledge of the scholar, died of wounds, on the Somme,
in 1916.

Of the two orders, the Doric and the Ionic, the Doric seems to me the
purest embodiment of the true Greek spirit, in its faultless form, and
its austere restraint and rejection of the unessential. It was,
moreover, the order _par excellence_ of the Greek temple of the mainland.
The Erechtheum was the only Ionic temple of first-rate importance in Greece,
and the employment of the Ionic order in Greece was confined to interiors
and minor buildings. As for the Corinthian order, the favourite order
of the Romans, it was scarcely recognized by the Greeks. In all their great
temples, in Greece, in Sicily, and Magna Graecia, they used the Doric
order.

[Illustration: Fig. 2. TEMPLE OF NEPTUNE AT PAESTUM]
How this order was arrived at we do not really know. Ingenious conjectures
have been made as to its origin in wooden construction, and though some
of these conjectures are more probable than others they leave us
pretty well where we were in regard to the stages by which it reached
its final form.

It has been suggested that the Doric column originated in the wooden post
of the earliest temples, such as are supposed to have existed in the
Heraion at Olympia. The square post would have its angles taken off,
and become an octagon, and the further elimination of the angles would
gradually produce a form nearly circular in plan, in which the
arrises of the chamfered angles would remain, and this might easily
suggest to artists so sensitive as the Greeks, their further refinement
and definition by a slight hollow between the arrises which would
constitute the flutings of the Doric column. Its derivations from the
Minoan and Mycenaean columns seems most improbable. There are
two essential parts in the Doric column, the shaft and the capital
(the Greeks did not use any base for this order).

The Minoan columns taper downwards instead of upwards, an utterly
unconstructional form, and though in the palace of Knossos and at Tiryns
columns of this shape appear to have been used to carry lintels, the
stone columns on either side of the entrance to the Treasury of Atreus at
Mycenae were used for decorative and not for structural purposes. On the
other hand columns of great massiveness tapering upwards had been used
long before in Egypt; and though there is evidence against it, it
still seems probable that the suggestion of the shaft of the Doric column
may have come from Egypt. We first find it in Greece in the seventh
century B. C. at the period when Psammetichus I (671-617 B. C.) opened
Egypt to Greek trade and settlement. The Greek colony of Naukratis
on the west side of the Nile delta was founded by Milesians about
650 B.

C. and by the middle of the sixth century B. C. definite trade relations
were established between Naukratis and the mainland of Greece. The
Greek settlement at Daphnae on the eastern arm of the Nile appears to
have been founded at about the same time as Naukratis, in both
cases with the sanction and encouragement of the Egyptian king. The earliest
Doric temples in Greece, Sicily, and Magna Graecia date from the end of
the seventh century and early part of the sixth century. The nearness
of date makes it probable that the shaft of the Doric order had its origin
in the Egyptian column seen by some quick-witted Greek when trading
in Egypt.
When we come to the capital of the column, the rôles seem to be reversed,
for we find nothing in Egyptian architecture to suggest the echinus
moulding under the square abacus of the Doric column; whereas the Mycenaean
column had a rudimentary capital which may have suggested the idea
of the Doric capital.

But the notable thing about it is that when we first come across the
Doric capital in Sicily and Greece, it is already far in advance of
anything that had gone before it in Greece, and it is quite different
from the columns of Egypt. In the Doric temple of Corinth (650-600 B. C.)
the columns have already reached the type form, the tapered shaft with
its entasis or slight convex curvature in outline, its massive
solidity (the ratio is one of diameter to four and a quarter of
height), and the bold parabolic curve of the echinus moulding under
the abacus of its cap.

In this form, the Doric column was an absolutely fresh note in architecture.
Archaic though they were, these columns at Corinth show that the Greeks
were already on the track of those refinements of form, those optical
corrections and compensations, which differentiate Greek architecture
from that of any other race. The exaggeration in the entasis of the archaic
column disappears, its tapering was diminished, its height increased,
and the overhang of the capitals reduced, till in the Theseion (465
B. C.) and the Parthenon (450-438 B. C.) we reach the final inimitable
type.

The column, which at Paestum was not much over four times the height of
its correct diameter, is now over five times, the great overhanging
capitals are reduced to reasonable dimensions, the depth of the entablature
is diminished, the axis of the column is slightly inclined inwards to
give the impression of stability, the shafts have the slight curve or
'entasis' just sufficiently marked to prevent the outline of the
column looking incurved; the lines of the stylobate, or continuous
base, on which the columns stand, and the entablature which they
carry, have a slight rise toward the centre in order to correct the
impression of the lines sinking in the middle; the columns at the
angles are thickened, because standing free with the light all round
them they would otherwise appear smaller than the columns standing
against the background of the building.

Nothing was left to chance; every aspect of the building, the
relation of every part to the whole, and of the whole to its part,
was studied profoundly, so that there should be no failure in its
perfect harmony.

Except in Egyptian architecture, and there to a much smaller extent,
nothing like this had been done before.

What the Greeks did, was to formulate a rhythmical architecture, in
which each part stood in a definite and considered relation to the
whole, so that even in their ruined state these Doric temples give
an irresistible impression of a great idea, a great architectural
epic, in which each detail, however beautiful, was subordinated to
the unity of the conception as a whole.

It is this abstract quality which lifts Greek Doric so far above the
ambitious art of later ages, and indeed above all but the very finest
work of any period of architecture.

[Illustration: Fig. 3. DORIC TEMPLE, CORINTH]
Many attempts have been made to discover the secret of this wonderful
perfection of proportion. That the Greeks had a system of their
own, that they worked to definite ratios of dimension and number, and
employed graphic methods of determining their proportions, such as the
use of triangles and the like to determine the limits of their
designs, seems certain. But no contemporary account of any such system
remains; and all the explanations that are given are _ex post facto_,
made by theorists analysing existing buildings, not by architects
designing new ones.

Some four or five hundred years later Vitruvius compiled a treatise on
architecture, in which, following the doctrines of the school of
Alexandria, he expounded a Greek theory of proportion on the basis
of the human figure. Vitruvius is obscure, and does not seem to
have been certain himself whether the proportion of the parts of a design
were to bear a relation to the whole, analogous to that of members of a
human body to the body as a whole, or whether the proportions of the
order were to be taken from the actual proportions of the human body;
and he complicates the position by reference to the 'perfect numbers'
of the Greeks. But here again he was uncertain whether the 'perfect
number' was ten or six. After which, and having, in his reference to the
human figure as the canon of proportion, unwittingly set a trap for the
scholars and artists of the Renaissance, he drops the subject and
digresses into a general classification of temples, with formal rules
for the placing and dimensions of columns, which have formed the
staple of treatises on classical architecture ever since.

One should speak with gratitude of the labours of Vitruvius, because,
after all, his is the only technical treatise left us on the subject;
but he applied to the pure Greek temples a system evolved centuries
later by critics and theorists; he was thinking chiefly of Roman
versions of Greek architecture, and he was more interested in
technical rules and precepts for the use of architects than in that
abstract beauty which was all the Greek cared for.

No classification, however laborious, will reach the mystery of Greek
architecture. Its beauty is too subtle to be reduced to any
formula.

The Doric order reigned supreme throughout the great period from the sixth
till the end of the fifth century B.

C. It failed with the failure of the high ideals of Athens.
Other forces came into play to which it no longer responded, and later
Greek critics even found fault with the Doric order for certain
'mendosae et inconvenientes symmetriae';[133] but that order, the
true symbol of the sons of Heracles, was one of the most momentous
contributions ever made to the art of architecture.

It was the keynote of Greek architecture throughout its finest period.
Later it was superseded by the Ionic order, and when Rome became paramount
in the western world, that, in its turn, yielded its place of pride
to the Corinthian order, opulent, luxurious, a little vulgar, a true
register of the lowering of the sense and standard of beauty that
followed the downfall of Athens

.

[133] _Vitruvius_, iii. 1. The difficulty was, that if the triglyph was
placed on the angle of the building (the practice of the Greeks)
and the next triglyph was placed over the axis of the column, the metope
(or panel) between these two triglyphs would be larger than the metopes
between the triglyphs axial over the other columns.

The Greeks solved it by reducing the width of the end intercolumniation,
but later critics disliked this, and solved it by removing the end triglyph
from the angle and placing it axial over the end column.

Meanwhile, on the other side of the Aegean, the Ionic order was reaching
its perfect form through a similar process of systematic thought
on a type definitely adopted.

The Greek colonies in Asia Minor were of very early origin. Legend
attributed their foundation to the earlier inhabitants of Greece, driven
out by the Dorians. By the sixth century B. C. the Greek colonies were
well established on the west and south-west coasts of Asia Minor, and had
evolved their own characteristic architectural idiom in the Ionic order
and its column, more slender than the Doric, with its moulded base
and its strange characteristic capital, unsuitable from the
constructional point of view in stone or marble, yet ultimately
attaining the exquisite beauty of line and modelling of the capitals
of the Erechtheion at Athens.

Two things seem fairly certain as to the origin of this capital; first,
that it was derived from the wooden horizontal head-pieces fixed on posts
to reduce the bearing of the primitive wooden lintels; and, secondly,
that the first suggestion of the volute reached the Ionian Greeks from
the East. A crude anticipation of the volute is found in Phoenician
work, and it also appears on a Hittite relief at Boghaz Keui in the
middle of Asia Minor. Its origin in either case was oriental,
and we have here the other motive in Greek architecture, Eastern, at
any rate exotic, and, as compared with Doric, almost alien to the
true Greek genius.

Then Spinrobin
made a step cautiously in advance; lowering his candle he moved towards
it. This he did, partly to see better, partly to protect his bare legs.
The idea of protection, however, seems to have been merely instinct, for
at once this notion that it might dash forward to attack him was merged
in the unaccountable realization of a far grander emotion, as he
perceived that this "living creature" facing him was, for all its
diminutive size, both dignified and imposing. Something in its
atmosphere, something about its mysterious presentment there upon the
floor in its dark corner, something, perhaps, that flashed from its
brilliant and almost terrible eyes, managed to convey to him that it was
clothed with an importance and a significance not attached normally to
the animal world. It had "an air." It bore itself with power, with value,
almost with pride.

This incongruous impression bereft him of the sensations of ordinary
fear, while it increased the sources of his confusion. Yet it convinced.
He knew himself face to face with some form of life that was considerable
in the true sense--spiritually. It exercised a fascination over him that
was at the moment beyond either explanation or belief.

As he moved, moreover, the little dark object also moved--away from him,
as though resenting closer inspection. With action--again unlike the
action of any animal he could think of, and essentially dignified--both
rapid and nicely calculated, it ran towards the curtains behind. This
appearance of something stately that went with it was indefinable and
beyond everything impressive; for how in the world could such small
proportions and diminutive movements convey grandeur? And again Spinrobin
found it impossible to decide precisely how it moved--whether on four
legs or on two.

Keeping the two points of light always turned upon him, it shot across
the floor, leaped easily upon a chair, passed with a nimble spring from
this to a table by the wall, still too much in obscurity to permit a
proper view; and then, while the amazed secretary approached cautiously
to follow its movements better, it crawled to the edge of the table, and
in so doing passed for the first time full across the pale zone of
flickering candlelight.

Spinrobin, in that quick second, caught a glimpse of flying hair, and saw
that it moved either as a human being or as a bird--on two legs.

The same moment it sprang deftly from the high table to the mantelpiece,
turned, stood erect, and looked at him with the whole glare of the light
upon its face; and Spinrobin, bereft of all power of intelligible
sensation whatever, saw to his unutterable distress that it was--a man.
The dignity of its movements had already stirred vaguely his sense of
awe, but now the realization beyond doubt of its diminutive _human_ shape
added a singularly acute touch of horror; and it was the combination of
the two emotions, possibly, that were responsible also for the two
remarkable impulses of which he was first conscious: first, a mad desire
to strike and kill; secondly, an imperious feeling that he must hide his
eyes in some act or other of worship!

And it was then he realized that the man was--Philip Skale!

Mr. Skale, scarcely a foot high, dressed as usual in black, flowing
beard, hooked nose, lambent, flashing eyes and all, stood there upon the
mantelpiece level with his secretary's face, not three feet separating
them, and--smiled at him. He was small as a Tanagra figure, and in
perfect proportion.

It was unspeakably terrible.


II

"Of course--I'm dreaming," cried Spinrobin, half aloud, half to the
figure before him. He searched behind him with one hand for solid
support. "You're a dream thing. It's some awful trick--God will
protect me--!"

Mr. Skale's tiny lips moved. "No, no," his voice said, and it sounded as
from a great distance. "I'm no dream thing at all, and you are wide
awake. Look at me well. I am the man you know--Philip Skale. Look
straight into my eyes and be convinced." Again he smiled his kindly,
winning smile. "What you now see is nothing but a result of sounding my
true name in a certain way--very softly--to increase the cohesion of my
physical molecules and reduce my visible expression. Listen, and watch!"

And Spinrobin, half stupefied, obeyed, feeling that his weakening knees
must in another moment give way and precipitate him to the floor. He was
utterly unnerved. The onslaught of terror and amazement was overwhelming.
For something dreadful beyond all words lay in the sight of this man,
whom he was accustomed to reverence in his gigantic everyday shape, here
reduced to the stature of a pygmy, yet compelling as ever, terrific even
when thus dwarfed. And to hear the voice of thunder that he knew so well
come to him disguised within this thin and almost wailing tone, passed
equally beyond the limits of what he could feel as emotion or translate
into any intelligible words or gesture.

While, therefore, the secretary stood in awful wonder, doing as he was
told simply because he could do nothing else, the figure of the clergyman
moved with tiny steps to the edge of the mantelpiece, until it seemed as
though he meant in another moment to leap on to his companion's shoulder,
or into his arms. At the edge, however, he stopped--the brink of a
precipice, to him!--and Spinrobin then became aware that from his moving
lips, doll-like though bearded, his voice was issuing with an
ever-growing volume of sound and power.

Vibrations of swiftly-increasing depth and wave-length were spreading
through the air about him, filling the room from floor to ceiling. What
the syllables actually uttered may have been he was too dazed to realize,
for no degree of concentration was possible to his mind at all; he only
knew that, before his smarting eyes, with this rising of the voice to its
old dominant inflexion, the figure of Mr. Philip Skale grew likewise,
indescribably; swelled, rose, spread upwards and outwards, but with the
parts ever passing slowly in consistent inter-relation, from minute to
minute. He became, always in perfect proportion, magnified and extended.
The growing form, moreover, kept pace exactly, and most beautifully, with
the increasing tide of sonorous vibration that flooded himself, its
utterer and the whole room.

Spinrobin, it seems, had just sufficient self-control left to realize
that this sound was similar in quality to that which had first awakened
him and caused the outlines of the furniture to alter, when the sight of
Mr. Skale's form changing thus terribly before his eyes, and within the
touch of his very hand, became too much for him altogether....

What precisely happened he never knew. The sounds first enveloped him,
then drove him backwards with a sense of immense applied resistance. He
collapsed upon the sofa a few feet behind him, as though irresistibly
pushed. The power that impelled him charged vehemently through the little
room till it seemed the walls must burst asunder to give it scope, while
the sounds rose to such a volume that he figured himself drowned and
overpowered by their mighty vibrations as by the storm swells of the
Atlantic. Before he lost them as sound he seems thus to have been aware
of them as moving waves of air.... The next thing he took in was that
amid the waste of silence that now followed his inability to hear, the
figure of Philip Skale towered aloft towards the ceiling, till it seemed
positively to occupy all the available space in the room about him.

Had he dropped upon the floor instead of upon the sofa it is probable
that at this point Spinrobin would have lost consciousness, at any rate
for a period; but that sofa, which luckily for his bones was so close
behind, galvanized him sharply back into some measure of self-control
again. Being provided with powerful springs, it shot him up into the air,
whence he relapsed with a series of smaller bounds into a normal sitting
posture. Still holding the lighted candle as best he could, the little
secretary bounced upon that sofa like a tennis ball. And the violent
motion shook him into himself, as it were. His tottering universe
struggled back into shape once more. He remembered vaguely that all this
was somehow a test of his courage and fitness. And this thought,
strengthened by a law of his temperament which forced him to welcome the
sweet, mad terror of the whole adventure, helped to call out the reserves
of his failing courage.

He bounced upon his feet again--those bare feet plastered with candle
grease--and, turning his head, saw the clergyman, of incredible stature,
yet still apparently increasing, already over by the door. He was turning
the key with a hand the size--O horror!--of Spinrobin's breast. The next
moment his vast stooping body filled the entire entrance, blotting out
whole portions of the walls on either side, then was gone from the room.

Leaving the candlestick on the sofa, his heart aflame with a fearful
ecstasy of curiosity, he dashed across the floor in pursuit, but Mr.
Skale, silently and with the swiftness of a river, was already down the
stairs before he had covered half the distance.

Through the framework of the door Spinrobin saw this picture:

Skale, like some awful Cyclops, stood upon the floor of the hall some
twenty feet below, yet rearing terrifically up through the well of the
building till his head and shoulders alone seemed to fill the entire
space beneath the skylight. Though his feet rested unquestionably upon
the ground, his face, huge as a planet in the sky, rose looming and half
lighted above the banisters of this second storey, his tangled locks
sweeping the ceiling, and his beard, like some dark river of hair,
flowing downwards through the night. And this spreading countenance of
cloud it was, hanging in the semi-darkness, that Spinrobin saw turn
slowly towards him across the faint flicker of the candlelight, look
straight down into his face, and smile. The great mouth and eyes
unquestionably smiled. And that smile, for all its vast terror, was
beyond words enchanting--like the spread laughter of a summer landscape.

Among the spaces of the immense visage--reminding him curiously of his
boyhood's conception of the Creator--Spinrobin lost himself and grew
dizzy with a deadly yet delicious faintness. The mighty tenderness, the
compassion, the splendor of that giant smile overpowered him and
swallowed him up.

For one second, in dreadful silence, he gazed. Then, rising to meet the
test with a courage that he felt might somehow involve the alteration if
not the actual destruction of his own little personality, but that also
proved his supreme gameness at the same time, he tried to smile in
return.... The strange and pitiful attempt upon his own face perhaps, in
the semi-obscurity, was not seen. He only remembers that he somehow found
strength to crawl forward and close the door with a bang, though not the
strength to turn the key and lock it, and that two seconds later, having
kicked the candle over and out in his flying leap, he was in the middle
of the bed under a confused pile of sheets and blankets, weeping with
muffled sobs in the darkness as though his heart must burst with the
wonder and terror of all he had witnessed.

For, to the simple in heart, at the end of all possible stress and strain
of emotion, comes mercifully the blinding relief of tears....

And then, although too overcome to be able to prove it even to himself,
it was significant that, lying there smothered among the bedclothes, he
became aware of the presence of something astonishingly sweet and
comforting in his consciousness. It came quite suddenly upon him; the
reaction he experienced, he says, was very wonderful, for with it the
sense of absolute safety and security returned to him. Like a terrified
child in the darkness who suddenly knows that its mother stands by the
bed, all-powerful to soothe, he felt certain that some one had moved into
the room, was close beside him, and was even trying to smooth his pillow
and arrange the twisted bedclothes.

He did not dare uncover his face to see, for he was still dominated by
the memory of Mr. Skale's portentous visage; but his ears were not so
easily denied, and he was positive that he heard a voice that called his
name as though it were the opening phrase of some sweet, childhood
lullaby. There was a touch about him somewhere, it seemed, of delicate
cool hands that brought with them the fragrance as of a scented summer
wind; and the last thing he remembered before he sank away into welcome
unconsciousness was an impression, fugitive and dreamlike, of a gentle
face, unstained and pale as marble, that bent above his pillow, and,
singing, called him away to forgetfulness and peace.


III

And several hours later, when he woke after a refreshing sleep to find
Mrs. Mawle smiling down upon him over a tray of steaming coffee, he
recalled the events of the night with a sense of vivid reality that if
possible increased his conviction of their truth, but without the
smallest symptom of terror or dismay. For the blessing of the presence
that had soothed him into sleep lay still upon him like a garment to
protect. The test had come and he had not wholly failed.

With something approaching amusement, he watched the housekeeper pick up
a candlestick from the middle of the floor and put his Jaeger slippers
beneath the chair, having found one by the cupboard and the other over by
the fireplace.

"Mr. Skale's compliments and Mr. Spinrobin is not to hurry himself," he
heard her saying, as she put the tray beside the bed and went out of the
room. He looked at his watch and saw that it was after ten o'clock.

Half an hour later he was dressed and on his way downstairs, conscious
only of an overwhelming desire to see Mr. Skale, but to see him in his
normal and fatherly aspect again. For a strain of worship mingled oddly
with his devouring curiosity, and he was thirsty now for the rest of the
adventure, for the complete revelation of the Discovery in all its
bearings. And the moment he saw the clergyman in the hall he ran towards
him, scarcely realizing what it was he meant to say or do. Mr. Skale
stretched out both hands to meet him. His face was alight with pleasure.

But, before they could meet and touch, a door opened and in slipped
Miriam between them; she, too, was radiant, and her hands outstretched.

"Me first, please! Me first!" she cried with happy laughter, and before
Spinrobin realized what was happening, she had flung her arms about his
neck and kissed him. "You were splendid!" she whispered in his ear, "and
I _am_ proud of you--ever so proud!"

The next minute Skale had him by the hands.

"Well done! well done!" his voice boomed, while he gazed down into his
face with enthusiastic and unqualified approval. "It was all magnificent.
My dear little fellow, you've got the heart of a god, and, by Heavens,
you shall become as a god too! For you are worthy!" He shook him
violently by both hands, while Miriam looked eagerly on with admiration
in her wide grey eyes.

"I'm so glad, so awfully glad--" stammered the secretary, remembering
with shame his moments of vivid terror. He hardly knew what he said at
the moment.

"The properties of things," thundered the clergyman, "as you have now
learned, are merely the 'muffled utterances of the Sounds that made
them.' The thing itself is its name."

He spoke rapidly, with intense ardor and with reverence. "You have seen
with your own eyes a scientific proof of my Discovery on its humblest
level--how the physical properties of objects can be manipulated by the
vibratory utterance of their true names--can be extended, reduced,
glorified. Next you shall learn that spiritual qualities--the attributes
of higher states of being--can be similarly dealt with and
harnessed--exalted, intensified, _invoked_--and that the correct
utterance of mighty Names can seduce their specific qualities into your
own soul to make you mighty and eternal as themselves, and that to call
upon the Great Names is no idle phrase.... When the time comes,
Spinrobin, you shall not shrink, you shall not shrink...." He flung his
arms out with a great gesture of delight.

"No," repeated Spinrobin, yet aware that he felt mentally battered at the
prospect, "I shall not shrink. I think--now--I can manage--anything!"

And then, watching Miriam with lingering glance as she vanished laughing
up the staircase, he followed Mr. Skale into the library, his thoughts
tearing wildly to and fro, swelling with delight and pride, thrilling
with the wonder of what was yet to come. There, with fewest possible
sentences, the clergyman announced that he now accepted him and would,
therefore, carry out the promise with regard to the bequeathal of his
property to him in the event of any untoward circumstances arising later.
He also handed to him in cash the salary for the "trial month," together
with a check for the first quarter in advance. He was beaming with the
satisfaction he felt at having found at last a really qualified helper.
Spinrobin looked into his face as they shook hands over the bargain. He
was thinking of other aspects he had seen of this amazing being but a few
hours before--the minute, the colossal, the changing-between-the-two
Skales....

"I'm game, Mr. Skale," he said simply, forgetting all his recent doubts
and terrors.

"I know you are," the clergyman replied. "I knew it all along."


Chapter X


I

The first thing Spinrobin knew when he ran upstairs to lock away the
money in his desk was that his whole being, without his directing it,
asked a question of momentous import. He did not himself ask it
deliberately. He surprised his sub-consciousness asking it:

"WHAT IS THIS NAME THAT PHILIP SKALE FOREVER SEEKS?"

It was no longer mere curiosity that asked it, but that sense of
responsibility which in all men of principle and character lies at the
root of action and of life. And Spinrobin, for all his little weaknesses,
was a man of character and principle. There came a point when he could no
longer follow blindly where others led, even though the leader were so
grand an individual as Philip Skale. This point is reached at varying
degrees of the moral thermometer, and but for the love that Miriam had
wakened in his heart, it might have taken much longer to send the mercury
of his will so high in so short a time. He now felt responsibility for
two, and in the depths of his queer, confused, little mind stirred the
thought that possibly after all the great adventure he sought was only
the supreme adventure of a very wonderful Love.

He records these two questions at this point, and it is only just to
himself, therefore, to set them down here. To neither was the answer yet
forthcoming.

For some days the routine of this singular household followed its normal
course, the only change being that while the secretary practiced his
Hebrew names and studied the relations between sound, color, form and the
rest, he kept himself a little better in hand, for Love is a mighty
humanizer and holds down the nose upon the grindstone of the wholesome
and practical values of existence. He turned, so to speak, and tried to
face the matter squarely; to see the adventure as a whole; to get all
round it and judge. It seems, however, that he was too much in the thick
of it to get that bird's-eye view which reduces details to the right
proportion. Skale's personality was too close, and flooded him too
violently. Spinrobin remained confused and bewildered; but also
unbelievably happy.

"Coming out all right," he wrote shakily in that gilt-edged diary.
"Beginning to understand why I'm in the world. Am just as important as
anybody else--_really_. Impossible explain more." His entries were
very like telegrams, in which a man attempts to express in a lucid
shorthand all manner of things that the actual words hardly compass.
And life itself is not unlike some mighty telegram that seeks vainly
to express, between the extremes of silence and excess, all that the
soul would say....

"Skale is going too far," perhaps best expresses the daily burden of his
accumulating apprehension. "He is leading up to something that makes me
shrink--something not quite legitimate. Playing with an Olympian fire
that may consume us both." And there his telegram stopped; for how in
the world could he put into mere language the pain and distress involved
in the thought that it might at the same time consume Miriam? It all
touched appalling depths of awe in his soul. It made his heart shake. The
girl had become a part of his very self.

Vivid reactions he suffered, alternating with equally vivid enthusiasms.
He realized how visionary the clergyman's poetical talk was, but the next
minute the practical results staggered him again, as it were, back into a
state of conviction. For the poetry obscured his judgment and fired his
imagination so that he could not follow calmly. The feeling that it was
not only illogical but insane troubled him; yet the physical effects
stared him in the face, and to argue with physical results is waste of
time. One must act.

Yet how "act?" The only way that offered he accepted: he fell back upon
the habits of his boyhood, read his Bible, and at night dropped humbly
upon his knees and prayed.

"Keep me straight and pure and simple, and bless ... Miriam. Grant
that I may love and strengthen her ... and that my love may bring her
peace ... and joy ...and guide me through all this terror, I beseech
Thee, into Truth...."

For, in the beauty of his selfless love, he dared not even admit that it
was love; feeling only the highest, he could not quite correlate his
sweet and elevated passion with the common standards of what the World
called love. The humility of a great love is ever amazing.

And then followed in his prayers the more cowardly cry for ordinary
protection from the possible results of Skale's audacity. The Love of God
he could understand, but the Wrath of God was a conception he was still
unemancipated enough to dread; and a dark, portentous terror that Skale
might incur it, and that he might be dragged at its heels into some
hideous catastrophe, chased him through the days and nights. It all
seemed so unlawful, impious, blasphemous....

"... And preserve us from vain presumptions of the heart and brain, I
pray Thee, lest we be consumed.... Please, O God, forgive the insolence
of our wills ... and the ignorant daring of our spirit.... Permit
not the innocent to suffer for the guilty ... and especially
bless ... Miriam...."

Yet through it all ran that exquisite memory of the calling of his true
name in the spaces of his soul. The beauty of far-off unattainable
things hovered like a star above his head, so that he went about the
house with an insatiable yearning in his heart, a perpetual smile of
wonder upon his face, and in his eyes a gleam that was sometimes terror,
sometimes delight.

It was almost as if some great voice called to him from the mountaintops,
and the little chap was forever answering in his heart, "I'm coming! I'm
coming!" and then losing his way purposely, or hiding behind bushes on
the way for fear of meeting the great invisible Caller face to face.


II

And, meanwhile, the house became for him a kind of Sound-Temple as it
were, protected from desecration by the hills and desolate spaces that
surrounded it. From dawn to darkness its halls and corridors echoed with
the singing violin, Skale's booming voice, Miriam's gentle tones, and his
own plaintive yet excited note, while outside the old grey walls the air
was ever alive with the sighing of the winds and the ceaseless murmur of
falling water. Even at night the place was not silent. He understood at
last what the clergyman had told him--that perfect silence does not
exist. The universe, down to its smallest detail, sings through every
second of time.

The sounds of nature especially haunted him. He never heard the wind now
without thinking of lost whispers from the voice of God that had strayed
down upon the world to sweeten and bewilder the hearts of men--whispers
a-search for listeners simple enough to understand. And when their walks
took them as far as the sea, the dirge of the waves troubled his soul
with a kind of distressing exaltation that afflicted the very deeps of
his being. It was with a new comprehension he understood his employer's
dictum that the keynote of external nature was middle F--this employer
who himself possessed that psychic sense of absolute pitch--and that the
roar of a city, wind in forest trees, the cry of trains, the rushing of
rivers and falling water, Niagara itself, all produced this single
utterance; and he loved to sing it on the moors, Miriam laughing by his
side, and to realize that the world, literally, sang with them.

Behind all sounds he divined for the first time a majesty that appalled;
his imagination, glorified by Skale, instantly fell to constructing the
forms they bodied forth. Out of doors the flutes of Pan cried to him to
dance: indoors the echoes of yet greater music whispered in the
penetralia of his spirit that he should cry. In this extraordinary new
world of Philip Skale's revelation he fairly spun.

It was one thing when the protective presence of the clergyman was about
him, or when he was sustained by the excitement of enthusiasm, but when
he was alone, at his normal level, timid, yet adventurous, the too vivid
sense of these new things made him tremble. The terrifying beauty of
Skale's ideas; the realization in cold blood that all forms in the world
about him were silently a-singing, and might any moment vanish and
release their huge bodies into primal sounds; that the stones in the
road, the peaked hills, the very earth herself might alter in shape
before his eyes: on the other hand, that the viewless forces of life and
death might leap into visibility and form with the calling of their
names; that himself, and Skale, and Mrs. Mawle, and that pale fairy
girl-figure were all enmeshed in the same scheme with plants, insects,
animals and planets; and that God's voice was everywhere too sublimely
close--all this, when he was alone, oppressed him with a sense of things
that were too intimate and too mighty for daily life.

In these moments--so frequent now as to be almost continuous--he
preferred the safety of his ordinary and normal existence, dull though it
might be; the limited personality he had been so anxious to escape from
seemed wondrous sweet and comforting. The Terror of the approaching
Experiment with this mighty name appalled him.

The forces, thus battling within his soul, became more and more
contradictory and confused. The outcome for himself seemed to be the
result of the least little pressure this way or that--possibly at the
very last moment, too. Which way the waiting Climax might draw him was a
question impossible to decide.


III

And then, suddenly, the whole portentous business moved a sharp stage
nearer that hidden climax, when one afternoon Mr. Skale came up
unexpectedly behind him and laid a great hand upon his shoulder in a way
that made him positively jump.

"Spinrobin," he said, in those masterful, resonant tones that shamed his
timidity and cowardice, "are you ready?"

"For anything and everything," was the immediate reply, given almost
automatically as he felt the clergyman's forces flood into his soul
and lift him.

"The time is at hand, then," continued the other, leading his companion
by the arm to a deep leather sofa, "for you to know certain things that
for your own safety and ours, I was obliged to keep hidden till
now--first among which is the fact that this house is not, as you
supposed, empty."

Prepared as he was for some surprising announcement, Spinrobin
nevertheless started. It was so abrupt.

"Not empty!" he repeated, eager to hear more, yet quaking. He had never
forgotten the nightly sounds and steps in his own passage.

"The rooms beyond your own," said Skale, with a solemnity that amounted
to reverence, "are occupied--"

"By--" gasped the secretary.

"Captured Sounds--gigantic," was the reply, uttered almost below
the breath.

The two men looked steadily at one another for the space of several
seconds, Spinrobin charged to the brim with anxious questions pressing
somehow upon the fringe of life and death, Skale obviously calculating
how much he might reveal or how little.

"Mr. Spinrobin," he said presently, holding him firmly with his eyes,
"you are aware by this time that what I seek is the correct pronunciation
of certain names--of a certain name, let us say, and that so complex is
the nature of this name that no single voice can utter it. I need a
chord, a human chord of four voices."

Spinrobin bowed.

"After years of research and experiment," resumed the clergyman, "I have
found the first three notes, and now, in your own person, has come my
supreme happiness in the discovery of the fourth. What I now wish you to
know, though I cannot expect you to understand it all at first, is that
the name I seek is broken up into four great divisions of sound, and that
to each of these separate divisions the four notes of our chord form
introductory channels. When the time comes to utter it, each one of us
will call the syllable or sound that awakens the mighty response in one
of these immense and terrific divisions, so that the whole name will
vibrate as a single chord sung perfectly in tune."

Mr. Skale paused and drew deep breaths. This approach to his great
experiment, even in speech, seemed to exhaust him so that he was obliged
to call upon reserves of force that lay beneath. His whole manner
betrayed the gravity, the reverence, the mingled respect and excitement
of--death.

And the simple truth is that at the moment Spinrobin could not find in
himself sufficient courage to ask what this fearful and prodigious name
might be. Even to put ordinary questions about the four rooms was a
little beyond him, for his heart beat like a hammer against his ribs, and
he heard its ominous drum sounding through both his temples.

"And in each of the rooms in your corridor, ready to leap forth when
called, lie the sounds or voices I have captured and imprisoned, these
separate chambers being sheeted and prepared--huge wax receptacles, in
fact, akin to the cylinders of the phonograph. Together with the form or
pattern belonging to them, and the color, there they lie at present in
silence and invisibility, just as the universe lay in silence and
invisibility before the word of God called it into objective being.
But--_know them and they are mine_."

"All these weeks--so close to me," whispered Spinrobin, too low for Skale
to notice.

Then the clergyman leaned over towards him. "These captured sounds are
as yet by no means complete," he said through his beard, as though afraid
to admit it; "for all I have of them really is their initial letters, of
their forms the merest faint outlines, and of their colors but a first
suggestion. And we must be careful, we must be absolutely wise. To utter
them correctly will mean to transfer to us the qualities of Gods, whereas
to utter falsely may mean to release upon the surface of the world forces
that--" He shrugged his great shoulders and an ashen pallor spread
downwards over the face to the very lips. The sentence remained
unfinished; and its very incompleteness left Spinrobin with the most
grievous agony of apprehension he had yet experienced.

"So that, if you are ready, our next step shall be to show you the room
in which your own particular sound lies," added Mr. Skale after a long
pause; "the sound in the chord it will be your privilege to utter when
the time comes. For each of us will utter his or her particular letter,
the four together making up the first syllable in the name I seek."

Mr. Skale looked steadily down into the wide blue eyes of his companion,
and for some minutes neither of them spoke.

"The letter I am to utter," repeated the secretary at length; "the letter
in some great name?"

Mr. Skale smiled upon him with the mighty triumph of the Promethean idea
in his eyes.

"The room," he muttered deeply and softly, "in which it lies waiting for
you to claim it at the appointed time ... the room where you shall learn
its color, become attuned to its great vibratory activity, see its form,
and _know_ its power in your own person."

Again they looked long into one another's eyes.

"I'm game," murmured Spinrobin almost inaudibly; "I'm game, Mr. Skale."
But, as he said it, something in his round head turned dizzy, while his
thoughts flew to Miriam and to the clergyman's significant phrase of a
few minutes ago--"we must be careful, we must be absolutely wise."


IV

And the preparation the clergyman insisted upon--detailed, thorough
and scrupulous--certainly did not lessen in Spinrobin's eyes the
gravity of the approaching ordeal. They spent two days and nights in
the very precise and punctilious study, and utterance, of the Hebrew
names of the "angels"--that is, forces--whose qualities were essential
to their safety.

Also, at the same time, they fasted.

But when the time came for the formal visit to those closed rooms, of
which the locked doors were like veils in a temple, Spinrobin declares it
made him think of some solemn procession down ancient passageways of
crypt or pyramid to the hidden places where inscrutable secrets lay. It
was certainly thrilling and impressive. Skale went first, moving slowly
with big strides, grave as death, and so profoundly convinced of the
momentous nature of their errand that an air of dignity, and of dark
adventure almost majestic, hung about his figure. The long corridor, that
dreary December morning, stretched into a world of shadows, and about
half-way down it he halted in front of a door next but one to Spinrobin's
room and turned towards his companion.

Spinrobin, in a mood to see anything, yet striving to hide behind one
of those "bushes," as it were, kept his distance a little, but Mr.
Skale took him by the arm and drew him forward to his side. Slowly he
stooped, till the great bearded lips were level with his ear, and
whispered solemnly:

"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see--and _hear_ God."

Then he turned the key and led the way inside.

But apparently there were double doors, for they found themselves at
first in a cupboard-like space that formed a tiny vestibule to the room
itself; and here there was light enough to see that the clergyman was
taking from nails on the wall two long garments like surplices, colored,
so far as Spinrobin could make out, a deep red and a deep violet.

"For our protection," whispered Skale, enveloping himself in the red one,
while he handed the other to his companion and helped him into it. "Wear
it closely about your body until we come out." And while the secretary
struggled among the folds of this cassock-like garment, that was several
feet too long for his diminutive stature, the clergyman added, still with
a gravity and earnestness that impressed the imagination beyond all reach
of the ludicrous:

"For sound and color are intimately associated, and there are
combinations of the two that can throw the spiritual body into a
condition of safe receptivity, without which we should be deaf and blind
even in the great Presences themselves."

Trivial details, presenting themselves in really dramatic moments, may
impress the mind with extraordinary aptness. At this very moment
Spinrobin's eyes noticed in the corner of wall and door a tiny spider's
web, with the spider itself hanging in the center of its little
net--shaking. And he has never forgotten it. It expressed pictorially
exactly what he felt himself. He, too, felt that he was shaking in
midair--as in the center of a web whose strands hung suspended from the
very stars.

And the words, spoken in that slow deep whisper, filled the little space
in which the two men stood, and somehow completed for Spinrobin the sense
of stupendous things adequately approached.

Then Mr. Skale closed the outer door, shutting out the last feeble
glimmer of day, at the same moment turning the handle of the portal
beyond. And as they entered the darkness, Spinrobin, holding up his
violet robe with one hand to prevent tripping, with the other caught hold
of the tail of the flowing garment in front of him. For a second or two
he stopped breathing altogether.


V

On the very threshold a soft murmur of beauty met them; and, as plainly
as though the darkness had lifted into a blaze of light, the secretary at
once realized that he stood in the presence of something greater than all
he had hitherto known in this world. He had managed to find the
clergyman's big hand, and he held it tightly through a twisted corner of
his voluminous robe. The inner door next closed behind them. Skale, he
was aware, had again stooped in the darkness to the level of his ear.

"I'll give you the sound--the note," he heard him whisper. "Utter it
inwardly--in your thoughts only. Its vibrations correspond to the color,
and will protect us."

"Protect us?" gasped Spinrobin with dry lips.

"From being shattered and destroyed--owing to the intense activity of the
vibrations conveyed to our ultimate physical atoms," was the whispered
reply, as the clergyman proceeded to give him under his breath a
one-syllable sound that was unlike any word he knew, and that for the
life of him he has never been able to reproduce since.

Mr. Skale straightened himself up again and Spinrobin pictured him
standing there twice his natural size, a huge and impressive figure as he
had once before seen him, clothed now with the double dignity of his
strange knowledge. Then, advancing slowly to the center of the room, they
stood still, each uttering silently in his thoughts the syllable that
attuned their inner beings to safety.

Almost immediately, as the seconds passed, the secretary became aware
that the room was beginning to shake with a powerful but regular
movement. All about him had become alive. Vitality, like the vitality
of youth upon mountain tops, pulsed and whirled about them, pouring
into them the currents of a rushing glorious life, undiluted, straight
from the source. In his little person he felt both the keenness of
sharp steel and the vast momentum of a whole ocean. Thus he describes
it. And the more clearly he uttered in his thoughts the sound given to
him by his leader, the greater seemed the influx of strength and glory
into his heart.

The darkness, meanwhile, began to lift. It moved upwards in spirals that,
as they rose, hummed and sang. A soft blaze of violet like the color of
the robe he wore became faintly visible in the air. The chamber, he
perceived, was about the same size as his own bedroom, and empty of all
furniture, while walls, floor, and ceiling were draped in the same shade
of violet that covered his shoulders; and the sound he uttered, _and
thought_, called forth the color and made it swim into visibility. The
walls and ceiling sheeted with wax opened, so to speak, their giant lips.

Mr. Skale made a movement and drew him closer. He raised one arm into the
air, and Spinrobin, following the motion, saw what at first he imagined
to be vast round faces glimmering overhead, outlined darkly against the
violet atmosphere. Mr. Skale, with what seemed a horrible audacity, was
reaching up to touch them, and as he did so there issued a low, soft,
metallic sound, humming and melodious, that dropped sweetly about his
ears. Then the secretary saw that they were discs of metal--immense gongs
swinging in midair, suspended in some way from the ceiling, and each one
as Skale touched it emitted its beautiful note till all combined together
at length into a single chord.

And this chord, though Spinrobin talks whole pages in describing it,
apparently brought in its train the swell and thunder of something
beyond,--the far sweetness of exquisite harmonics, thousands upon
thousands, inwoven with the strands of deeper notes that boomed with
colossal vibrations about them. And, in some fashion that musical people
will understand, its gentler notes caught up the sound that Spinrobin was
uttering in his mind, and took possession of it. They merged. An
extraordinary volume, suggesting a huge aggregation of sound behind
it--in the same way that a murmur of wind may suggest the roar of
tempests--rose and fell through the room, lifted them up, bore them away,
sang majestically over their heads, under their feet, and through their
very minds. The vibrations of their own physical atoms fell into pace
with these other spiritual activities by a kind of sympathetic resonance.

The combination of power and simplicity was what impressed him most, it
seems, for it resembled--resembled only--the great spiritual simplicity
in Beethoven that rouses and at the same time satisfies the profoundest
yearnings of the soul. All through the history of art they have been acting
as a raising and purifying element.

It was not until the decay of the Olympic religion in the fourth century
that these types fell to a lower level.

The sense of beauty in the artist remained as keen as ever, the
technique of art even improved, but the religion of humanism was
debased by less noble tendencies, and the gods took on too much not
the nature of man as he might become, but the form of man as he
actually is in the world.

Not the forms only of the gods, but the history of their appearances
on earth and their dealings with mankind found expression in painting and
relief. Plato, as we know, condemned the myths of the gods as unworthy
from the ethical point of view. But we shall misjudge myths if we suppose
that they were actually believed in, or served to regulate conduct. What
they did was greatly to further the picturesqueness and joy of life.

And when they became less important in cultus they survived in poetry,
and served greatly to temper the harsh prose of actual life.
We must remember that some of the Jewish tales which have so much interested
and charmed our forefathers are hardly to be defended on strict ethical
principles, yet they have been a leavening and widening influence. Who
would wish to expel from churches the stories of Adam and Eve, of Joseph
and David, on grounds of ethical purism? The life of the many is not so
highly decorated that we should wish to expel from it elements
so pleasing.

As the Gods tend more and more to take forms beautiful but entirely human,
so do the notable features of the landscape, rivers and mountains,
sky and sea, take on themselves human shape.

Sun and moon, wind and storm, are completely humanized. The society
of Olympus, the powers manifested in nature, appear in sculpture as a
human society, but of more than human beauty and dignity. And such
rendering of the gods leads, as we shall presently see, to an ideal
rendering of men. As the gods come down in the likeness of men, so men
are raised to the level of the gods. Hence the intrinsic and inexhaustible
idealism of Greek sculpture, to which I will presently return.

Few works of art more fully and more attractively show the anthropomorphic
tendency of Greek art than the sunrise vase of the British Museum. It
shows us the whole morning pageant of nature humanized.

On the right appears the sun-god driving a chariot of winged horses, who
rise out of the sea. Before him the stars, represented as youths, plunge
into the water. To the left is the moon-goddess on horseback, setting
behind the hills, on one of which is a mountain-god in an attitude of
surprise. Before the sun hurries Eos, the winged dawn, who by
a bold citation of mythology is represented as pursuing Cephalus
the hunter, of whom she was enamoured.

We have the features of the daybreak; but they are all represented not as
facts of nature, but in their influence on Gods and men.

I do not figure this vase, as I have already done so in my _Principles of
Greek Art_; but instead I give an almost equally beautiful representation
from the lid of a toilet vase in the Sabouroff Collection at Berlin.

       We have here the same three figures of the sun-god, the moon-goddess,
and the winged dawn, who, however, in this case is driving a chariot.

The form of the whole group and the radiate symbol in the midst stands
admirably for the vault of heaven (Fig. 1).

[Illustration: Fig. 1. VASE REPRESENTING SUNRISE]
Another extreme example of anthropomorphism is the embodiment of the
sustaining power of the pillar in the so-called Caryatids of the
Erechtheum (Fig. 2).

Really they are Corae, maidens dedicated to Athena, and willingly
in her service bearing up the weight of the architrave of her temple.
Possibly the notion is not wholly satisfactory; but if it be tolerated,
could it have been more nobly carried out?

The square and stalwart form of the women, the mass of hair which
strengthens their necks, the easy pose, all make us feel that the
task is not beyond their strength or oppressive.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.

CARYATID of Erechtheum]
Beside the Greek Caryatid I must be allowed to place a modern version, by
Rodin. For the power and the technique of Rodin I have great admiration;
but when his works are placed beside those of Greece, we feel at
once their inferiority in dignity, in simplicity, in ideality (Fig.
3).

[Illustration: Fig. 3. CARYATID by Rodin]

II
The second lamp of Greek art is _Simplicity_. The artist sees quite clearly
what he desires to produce, and sets about producing it without
hesitation, without self-consciousness, with no beating about the
bush.

Of course the more primitive and less conventional a society is, the easier
it is for artists to be simple. In a complicated society simplicity and
directness are apt to be confused with what is commonplace or even with
the foolish. The simplicity of Wordsworth and of Tennyson does sometimes
cross the line.

The Greeks had the great advantage of coming before other cultivated
peoples, so that there was no commonplace to avoid. They could be
simple, as the wild rose and the primrose are simple.

What could be more simple than the _Iliad_? The same simplicity marks
Greek sculpture. It requires no great exercise of the intellect to
understand it. It presents every figure in a clear and unsophisticated
way.

As there is no more sure sign of a fine nature than the absence of
self-consciousness, so there is no more sure sign of greatness in art
than simplicity. The Greeks did not strive to be original, to make people
stare, to do the unusual. One of the most usual subjects in Greek
relief is a battle between male warriors and Amazons. Such battles adorn
many temples. And in every case they are distinctive in style. One could
not mistake a group from the temple at Phigaleia for a group from
the Mausoleum.

And there is no sameness: almost every group has some point or touch
of its own, which makes it a variety on the usual theme.

One Amazon is falling from her horse, one is asking for quarter,
one is following up a retreating foe. But no group is insistent that
the passer-by should look at it. The relief was the decoration of
a temple; and if its originality drew men's attention from the
temple itself, or from the Deity seated enthroned within, it might
justly be accused of impertinence, of exceeding due measure.

The sculptor did his best; but he was careful to do nothing which was out
of harmony with its surroundings. He sank himself in his work. And
even when he was engaged on a more serious substantive work, what
he most avoided was the incongruous and unbecoming.

He so worked that the attention of the spectator was concentrated not on
the character of the workmanship, but on the person or the subject
portrayed.

The idea which he tried to incorporate in marble or bronze was not
his own thought about the subject, but the character which really
belonged to it in the mind of the people.

This singleness of purpose is well illustrated by a story about the painter
Protogenes. He painted the figure of a Satyr, and beside it, as a
trifle, he inserted a partridge.

But when he found that admiration for the lifelikeness of the partridge
tended to distract the attention of visitors from the main figure,
he painted it out.

No doubt simplicity implies limitation. It is not easy in any age
to strike the deepest note without some surrender of simplicity. The
higher phases of the mental and spiritual life, mysticism,
symbolism, and the like are not to be expressed with complete
simplicity in any form of art.

One cannot deny that the Greek view of life was limited; that the Greeks
did not attempt to represent in art the highest aspirations of the soul.
It was an entirely perverted ingenuity which sought a generation ago to
find mystic meaning in the representations on Greek vases.

Attempts to portray the Deities of the Mysteries scarcely count as
works of art. Such figures as Sabazius, Isis, Mithras, only come into
ancient art in its decadence. I would not maintain that the modern
world, with its infinitely varied emotions, or the higher aspirations
of religions like the Christian or the Buddhist, could be satisfied
with such simple schemes as those of Greek sculpture, which appeal
to human instinct and human intelligence rather than to the more
recondite emotions.

Such emotions, however, in my opinion, do not find any appropriate
embodiment in the arts of which I am treating--the graphic and
plastic arts.

In poetry they have at all times found a noble expression; and in modern
days a perhaps still completer expression in music, which was in pre-Christian
days in a very rudimentary condition.
But painting is but ill suited to the rendering of these vague aspirations.
And still more unsuited is sculpture, the most imitative and objective
of all the arts. The attempts which have been made in recent years by
some sculptors to give a mystic turn to their art seems to me doomed
to failure by the essential nature of sculpture. A Western mind
can have little sympathy with the art which has moved most on mystic
lines, the art of India, which in such efforts has abandoned the search
for beauty, and so given up the really artistic point of view.

Mere prettiness no doubt is an unsatisfying ideal: but a loftier beauty,
in harmony with the world around us and the soul within us, is another
thing.

In order that simplicity may be in the highest degree admirable, it must
be combined with two other qualities--intense love of beauty, and the
utmost patience in execution. It must not lead on the one side to a
mere unideal copy of nature, nor on the other to a hasty and slovenly
kind of work.

The figure already mentioned, the Caryatid of the Erechtheum, is a model
of perfect simplicity. For further illustration of the quality
I have chosen the bronze charioteer from Delphi, and the Artemis from
Gabii, now in the Louvre. The former (Fig. 4) is a youth of noble family,
clad in the long dress necessary to protect from the wind a man driving
a chariot. The latter (Fig. 5), a work of the school of Praxiteles,
represents a young girl fastening her dress on her shoulder. Both are
as free as they can be from any attempt at novelty or originality:
yet no one with any taste could for a moment hesitate to pronounce
them admirable.

The object of the artist was to make works as perfect as possible. And
to that end he goes straight, without any complication, and without
the least care that others may have done similar works, against
which he must assert originality.

[Illustration: Fig. 4 CHARIOTEER of Delphi]
[Illustration: Fig. 5 ARTEMIS of Gabii]
Beside the two figures I have cited I place a more modern group
(Fig.
6), also by a man of genius, Peter Vischer.

It has the same simplicity and the same care in execution as the Greek
works, but in beauty it will not compare with them; and one feels regret
that so great an artist should have spent his powers on so unsuitable
a subject as the rivets and plates of a suit of armour. The lady, though
not without charm, seems artificial and affected beside the exquisite
freshness of the girl of Praxiteles.

[Illustration: Fig. 6. KNIGHT AND LADY By Peter Vischer]

III
The third lamp of Greek art is _Balance and Measure_, the recognition
of limit and law. This is most obvious in architecture, and especially
in its most characteristic production, the temple. The form of the
temple, when once established, remained fixed, within certain
limits of variation, for all time.

A most accomplished writer, M. Boutmy, has admirably shown how all
the constituent parts of the temple are related one to the other, how a
plan, a consistent rhythm, runs throughout it.
Each part has a definite function, which it accomplishes in the simplest
and clearest way.

The pillars are made simply to support, and their shape and slight
decoration is in accordance with that purpose. Their form ensures a maximum
of stability. The channeling or fluting carries the eye of the spectator
upwards to the capital which swells outwards to support the heavy
straight line of the cornice.

Above the cornice, the grooves of the triglyphs carry on the lines of fluting
from the columns towards the roof. The walls of the temple are not
primarily intended to support, but to enclose the sacred cella, and are
adorned only at their upper edge, as a curtain might be, with a
decorative frieze.

The whole building is thought out as a home for the statue of the deity
which it encloses; and no part is allowed to adorn itself except
in subordination to this general purpose.

Like the shells of molluscs or the hives of bees, it is the direct
embodiment of an idea, a purpose, only a conscious and reflective,
not a merely instinctive purpose.

The sculptural decoration, which is so striking a feature of the temple,
is also carefully subordinated to purpose and idea. No part of the structure
which bears a strain, if we except one or two early and unsatisfactory
experiments, was decorated. The business of column and architrave was to
bear weight; and if they were ornate they would seem less well
adapted to that purpose.

Only in parts of the building which were from the point of view of
construction otiose, such as pediment and metope, was the art of the
sculptor allowed to play; and even then it was bound to play
appropriately to the nature of the deity within and the festivals
of which the temple was to be the focus.

There was no room for cross-purposes or disturbing thoughts.

This rigidity of form and subordination to reason is as characteristic
of Attic tragedies as of temples. It would indeed be possible to work
out a close parallel between the two forms of art. But we must return
to our immediate subject, sculpture.

Temple sculpture exhibits the qualities of balance and measure
in the highest degree. In case of the pediment there is a central point,
just under the apex, where the dominant figures of the scene portrayed
are placed; and on either side of this central figure or group, figure
balances figure, until we come to the corners, which are occupied
by reclining forms, dying warriors, or river-gods or spectators.

In case of the metope, the square field is filled with two or three figures
balanced about a central line, a scheme self-contained and harmonious,
which may be compared to a geometrical diagram, and carries simplicity to
the farthest point.

Rhythm, balance, symmetry are the translation into sculpture of the
spirit of discipline and self-control, which the Greeks learned
by hard necessity.

The civilization of the Ionians in Asia is a brilliant sunrise, an
overflowing of the delight in life, in beauty, in the exercise of all the
faculties, which for a time dominated Greece itself.

And their art was joyous and free. The artists of Ionia invaded Athens
in the sixth century, visiting the luxurious court of Peisistratus,
and inspiring Peloponnesus, even Sparta, as the excavations of the
British School in Athens have abundantly shown.

But the Ionians were trodden down under the heavy foot of Persia:
excess of freedom and want of cohesion and discipline was their ruin. The
Great King of Persia was determined to trample in a like manner on Greece
Proper; and he would have succeeded but for the discipline and devotion
of the Dorians. It was the Spartans, aided by the brilliant military
talent of Miltiades and Themistocles, who saved Greece from slavery.
A military caste, like the Templars and Hospitallers of mediaeval
Europe, they furnished the backbone of the Greek army and dispersed
the hordes of Asia as easily as did the hardy Macedonians of Alexander
the Great a century and a half later.

The Athenians, with their quick wits, understood whence came their
salvation, and in the early part of the fifth century the tide of
Ionian influence was turned back, and Dorian manners, Dorian dress,
Dorian art, became dominant from Thessaly to Laconia.

It is precisely the Dorian ideas of discipline, of measure, of
self-control, which entering into the art of Greece made it a noble and
continuous development, instead of a mere brilliant flash. Plato was
well aware of the dangers which beset the Athenians from their
extreme versatility and want of reverence, and he foresaw how these
qualities would in the end destroy the civilization which they had
adorned.

He so clearly saw this that he was inclined to prefer the conventional
and monotonous art of Egypt to the brilliant Greek art of his own time.
This is, of course, to carry ethical prejudice to the length of
fanaticism, and to transgress the very law of moderation which inspired
him. But it was only in his old age that he went thus far.

This careful balance and proportion may be observed, as has often
been pointed out, in the designs of Greek vases, where the painted
subject not only is in itself a balanced scheme, but is also planned
in relation to the shape of the vases themselves.

A group suitable to an amphora would look out of place on a drinking cup.
And in the cup itself the outside requires a different treatment from the
inside. The whole is planned not merely to give free scope to the
artist, but to be appropriate, fitting, harmonious. Our first figure
well illustrates this thesis.

Even in the case of substantive sculpture, figures or groups made
to stand by themselves in market-place or portico, the Greek love
of harmony, or as they would have put it, of rhythm and symmetry
prevails:
ancient critics in those accounts of Greek sculpture, of which
fragments have come down to us in the writings of Pliny and Quintilian,
lay great stress on these features.

They show us that whereas in early art a merely external and mechanical
balance had prevailed, in the course of the fifth century this love of
order and measure was taken into the very being of art. Pythagoras of
Rhegium, whose works are unfortunately lost to us, made great progress
in rhythm and symmetry. His contemporaries, Myron and Polycleitus,
who carried the athletic art of Peloponnesus almost to its highest
point, were celebrated, Myron for the rhythm in motion which he
infused into his sculpture, Polycleitus for the careful balance of
his athletes and the system of proportion which he embodied in their
figures.

Pheidias was more essentially ideal than either of these, as we shall
presently see, but he also most diligently preserved in the Parthenon
and other works a spirit of measure and reasonableness.

Measure and balance in art differ widely from mere convention. 'Order is
Heaven's first law.' All fine character is formed, not by following random
impulses as they arise, but by making them conform to reason and duty,
disciplining them as wild horses are disciplined and taught to serve
mankind. Horses indeed may be over-disciplined, and by cruelty all
spirit may be taken out of them. And men may be over-disciplined, so that
their impulses die away from inanition. The Spartans were over-disciplined;
and through constant repression of natural tendencies they became mere
machines, and before long died out. But reasonable restraint imposed
on strong natural tendencies produces noble results in all spheres
of activity.

The same thing is true in art. Measure and discipline do not of course
make it easier to produce works of art; for in the nature of the case
discipline is at first grievous and is felt as a barrier. But for
the production of good and lasting works of art, discipline and law are
necessary. Take as an example the art which is simplest, poetry. It is
easier to write blank verse than to write sonnets. But it is far easier
to write _good_ sonnets than good blank verse, simply because the
constant restraint of the form stimulates thought and invention, prevents
too great haste, exercises the ingenuity.

In the same way the somewhat rigid laws of composition of pediment
metope and frieze compelled the Greek artist to think out schemes
suitable to those forms.

It would not be possible to find a better example of order and
balance in reliefs than is furnished by the magnificent sarcophagus
from Sidon (Fig. 7), on one side of which is represented one of the
victories of Alexander the Great.

At first sight it may seem a confused mêlée. But when we look closer
we see careful arrangement underlying the apparent disorder. Alexander,
charging from the left, is balanced by Parmenio charging from the right:
the horseman in the middle between the leaders seems to come out of the
background; and on either side of him is a fighting group, to the left a
Macedonian foot soldier fighting a Persian on foot, to the right a
light-armed Greek resisting a Persian horseman.
Two Persian archers balance one another.

There are in the scene five Greeks to eight Persians, indicating the
numerical superiority of the latter. And if we knew more about the
battle we should probably find its principal phases hinted at in the
groups. The relief tells us far more about the battle than would
a naturalistic representation of one corner of the field.

The Greek artist could not work without using his reason and his sense of
order as well as his skilled hand.

[Illustration: Fig. 7. SARCOPHAGUS FROM SIDON]

IV
The fourth notable quality of Greek art is _Naturalism_.

"It is a name," he continued, his tone rising to something of its old
thunder, "that sounds like the voice of many waters, that piles the ocean
into standing heaps and makes the high hills to skip like little lambs.
It is a name the ancient Hebrews concealed, as Tetragrammaton, beneath a
thousand devices, the name, they said, that 'rusheth through the
universe,' to call upon which--that is, to utter correctly--is to call
upon that name which is far above all others that can be named--"

He paused midway in the growing torrent of his speech and lifted his
companion out of the sofa. He set him upon his feet, holding both his
hands and peering deep into his eyes--those bewildered yet unflinching
blue eyes of the little man who sought terrific adventure as an escape
from insignificance--

"--to know which," he added, in a sudden awed whisper, "is to know the
ultimate secrets of life and death, and to read the riddle of the world
and the soul--to become even as itself--Gods."

He stopped abruptly, and again that awful, flaming smile ran over his
face, flushing it from chin to forehead with the power of his burning and
tremendous belief.

Spinrobin was already weeping inwardly, without sound. He understood at
last, only too well, what was coming. Skale's expression held the whole
wild glory, and the whole impious audacity of what seemed his blasphemous
spiritual discovery. The fires were alight in his eyes. He stooped down
lower and opened wide his capacious arms. The next second, Spinrobin,
Miriam, and Mrs. Mawle, who had unexpectedly come upon them from behind,
were gathered all together against his breast. His voice then dropped
suddenly to a tiny whisper of awful joy that seemed to creep from his
lips like some message too mighty to be fully known, and half lost itself
among the strands of his beard.

"My wonderful redeemed children, notes in my human chord," he whispered
over their heads, "it is the Name that shall make us as God, for it is
none other than the Name that rusheth through the universe"--his breath
failed him most curiously for an instant--"the NAME OF THE ALMIGHTY!"


Chapter XII


I

A certain struggling incoherence is manifest in Spinrobin's report of it
all, as of a man striving to express violent thoughts in a language he
has not yet mastered. It is evident, for instance, as those few familiar
with the "magical" use of sound in ceremonial and the power that resides
in "true naming" will realize, that he never fully understood Skale's
intended use of the chord, or why this complex sound was necessary for
the utterance of the complex "Name."

Moreover, the powers concealed in the mere letters, while they laid hold
upon his imagination, never fully entered his understanding. Few minds,
it seems, can conceive of any deity as other than some anthropomorphic
extension of themselves, for the idea is too greatly blinding to admit
human thought within a measurable distance even of a faintest conception.
The true, stupendous nature of the forces these letters in the opening
syllable clothed, Spinrobin unquestionably never apprehended. Miriam,
with her naked and undefiled intuitions, due to utter ignorance of
worldly things from birth, came nearer to the reality; but then Miriam
was now daily more and more caught up into the vortex of a sweet and
compelling human love, and in proportion as this grew she feared the
great experiment that might--so Spinrobin had suggested--spell Loss.
Gradually dread closed the avenues of her spirit that led so fearfully to
Heaven; and in their place she saw the dear yet thorny paths that lay
with Spinny upon the earth.

They no longer, these two bewildered loving children, spoke of one
another in the far-fetched terminology of sound and music. He no longer
called her his "brilliant little sound," nor did she respond with "you
perfect echo"; they fell back--sign of a gradual concession to more human
things--upon the gentler terminology, if the phrase may be allowed, of
Winky. They shared Winky between them ... though neither one nor other of
them divined yet what Winky actually meant in their just-opening lives.

"Winky is yours," she would say, "because you made him, but he belongs to
me too, because he simply can't live without me!"

"Or I without you, Little Magic," he whispered, laughing tenderly. "So,
you see, we are all three together."

Her face grew slightly troubled.

"He only pays me visits, though. Sometimes I think you hide him, or tell
him not to come." And far down in her deep grey eyes swam the first
moisture of rising tears. "Don't you, my wonderful Spinny?"

"Sometimes I forget him, perhaps," he replied gravely, "but that is only
when I think of what may be coming if--the experiment succeeds--"

"Succeeds?" she exclaimed. "You mean if it fails!" Her voice dropped
instinctively, and they looked over their shoulders to make sure they
were alone.

He came up very close to her and spoke in her small pink ear. "If it
succeeds," he whispered, "we go to Heaven, I suppose; if it fails we
stay upon the earth." Then he stood off, holding her hands at arm's
length and gazing down upon her. "Do you want to go to Heaven?" he asked
very deliberately, "or to stay here upon the earth with me and Winky--?"

She was in his arms the same second, laughing and crying with the strange
conflict of new and inexplicable emotions.

"I want to be with you here, and forever. Heaven frightens me now.
But--oh, Spinny, dear protecting thing, I want--I also want--" She broke
off abruptly, and Spinrobin, unable to see her face buried against his
shoulder, could not guess whether she was laughing or weeping. He only
divined that something in her heart, profound as life itself, something
she had never been warned to conceal, was clamoring for comprehension and
satisfaction.

"Miriam, tell me exactly. I'm sure I shall understand--"

"I want Winky to be with us always--not only sometimes--on little
visits," he heard between the broken breathing.

"I'll tell him--"

"But there's no good telling _him_," she interrupted almost fiercely, "it
is _me_ you must tell...."

Spinrobin's heart sank within him. They almost acted man and wife in the
division of their employments, and with the best effect.

It would have astonished any one unaccustomed to the few wants of simple
tastes, and to the many small gains from various trifling produce which
careful industry alone can accumulate, to see the plenty consequent
on skill, order, and neatness.

The happiness was a joy apart, only to be felt by the sort of poetic mind
of the truly benevolent, for it depended not on luxury, or even comfort,
or any purely selfish feeling.

It sprang from warm hearts directed by clear heads, invigorated by religious
feelings, and nourished by country tastes, softened and elevated by the
trials of life, till devotion to their kind became the one intention
of their being; for it is as Sisters of Charity we introduce our heroines
to our readers, one of a wide class in our reformed church, who, unshackled
by vows, under no bondage of conventual forms, with small means, and
by their own exertions and self-sacrifices, do more good in their generation
than can be easily reckoned--treading in the footsteps of their
Master, bearing healing as they move.

Every frugal meal was shared with some one less favoured.

No fragments were too small for use in Sister Anne's most skilful
cookery; not a crumb, nor a dreg, nor a drop was wasted. Many a cup
of comfort fed the sick or the weary, made from what, in richer households,
unthrifty servants would have thrown away.
There were always roots to spare from the small garden, herbs for medicines,
eggs for sale, salves, and lotions, and conserves of fruit or honey.
All the poor infants in the parish were neatly clothed in baby-linen
made out of old garments. There were always bundles of patches to give
away, so useful to poor mothers; strips of rag for hurts; old flannel,
and often new; a little collection of rubbish now and then for
the bagman, though very rarely, the breakage being small where there
were so few hands used, and they so careful.

They gave their time, too; for they were the nurses of all the sick,
the comforters of all the sorrowful, the advisers of all in
difficulty--without parade.

They were applied to as of course--it seemed natural. And they were sociable:
they had their little tea-parties with their acquaintance; they
made their little presents at Christmas-time; they sweetened life
throughout their limited sphere; and all so quietly, that no one
guessed the amount of their influence till it ceased.
He
feared there might come an answer.

He literally walked the dizzy edge of precipices that dropped over the
edge of the world. The incoherence of all this traffic with sound and
name had always bewildered him, even to the point of darkness, whereas
now it did more, it appalled him in some sense that was monstrous and
terrifying. Yet, while weak with terror when he tried to face the
possible results, and fevered with the notion of entering some new
condition (even though one of glory) where Miriam might no longer be as
he now knew her, it was the savage curiosity he felt that prevented his
coming to a definite decision and telling Mr. Skale that he withdrew from
the whole affair.

Then the idea grew in his mind that the clergyman was obsessed by some
perverted spiritual force, some "Devil" who deceived him, and that the
name he sought to pronounce was after all not good--not God. His
thoughts, fears, hopes, all became hopelessly entangled, through them one
thing alone holding clear and steady--the passionate desire to keep
Miriam as she was now, and to be with her forever. His mind played tricks
with him too. Day and night the house echoed with new sounds; the very
walls grew resonant; the entire building, buried away among these
desolate hills, trembled as though he were imprisoned within the belly of
some monstrous and gigantic fiddle.

Mr. Skale, too, began to change, it seemed. While physically he
increased, as it were, with the power of his burning enthusiasm, his
beard longer and more ragged, his eyes more luminous, and his voice
shaking through the atmosphere almost like wind, his personality, in some
curious fashion, seemed at the same time to retire and become oddly
tinged with a certain remoteness from reality. Spinrobin once or twice
caught himself wondering if he were not after all some legendary or pagan
figure, some mighty character of dream or story, and that presently he,
Spinrobin, would awake and write down the most wonderful vision the world
had ever known. His imagination, it will be seen, was affected in more
ways than one....

With a tremendous earnestness the clergyman went about the building, down
the long dark corridors and across the halls, his long soft strides took
him swiftly everywhere; his mere presence charged with some potent force
that betrayed itself in the fire of his eyes and the flush of his cheeks.

Spinrobin thought of him as some daring blasphemer, knocking at a door in
the sky. The sound of that knocking ran all about the universe. And when
the door opened, the heavens would roll back like an enormous, flat
curtain....

"Any moment almost," Skale whispered to him, smiling, "the day may be
upon us. Keep yourself ready--and--in tune."

And Spinrobin, expecting a thunderclap in his sleep, but ever plucky,
answered in his high-pitched voice, "I'm ready, Mr. Philip Skale, I'm
ready! I'm game too!" when, truthfully speaking, perhaps, he was neither
one nor other.

He would start up from sleep in the nighttime at the least sound, and the
roar of the December gales about the house became voices of portent that
conveyed far more than the mere rushing of inarticulate winds....

"When the hour comes--and it is close at hand--we shall not fail to know
it," said Skale, pallid with excitement. "The Letters will be out upon
us. They will live! But with an intense degree of exuberant life far
beyond what we know as life--we, in our puny, sense-limited bodies!" And
the scorn in his voice came from the center of his heart. "For what we
hear as sound is only a section," he cried, "only a section of
sound-vibrations--as they exist."

"The vibrations our ears can take are _very_ small, I know," interpolated
Spinrobin, cold at heart, while Miriam, hiding behind chairs and tables
that offered handy protection, watched with mingled anxiety and
confidence, knowing that in the last resort her adorable and "wonderful
Spinny" would guide her aright. Love filled her heart, ousting that other
portentous Heaven!


III

And then Skale announced that the time was ready for rehearsals.

"Let us practice the chord," he said, "so that when the moment comes
suddenly upon us, in the twinkling of an eye, in the daytime or in the
night, we shall be prepared, and each shall fly to his appointed place
and utter his appointed note."

The reasons for these definite arrangements he did not pretend to
explain, for they belonged to a part of his discovery that he kept
rigidly to himself; and why Spinrobin and Miriam were to call their notes
from the corridor itself, while Skale boomed his great bass in the
prepared cellar, Mrs. Mawle chanting her alto midway in the hall, acting
as a connecting channel in some way, was apparently never made fully
clear. In Spinrobin's imagination it was very like a practical
illustration of the written chord, the notes rising from the bass clef to
the high soprano--the cellar to the attic, so to speak. But, whatever the
meaning behind it, Skale was exceedingly careful to teach to each of
them his and her appointed place.

"When the Letters move of themselves, and make the first sign," he
repeated, "we shall know it beyond all doubt or question. At any moment
of the day or night it may come. Each of you then hasten to your
appointed place and wait for the sound of my bass in the cellar. There
will be no mistake about it; you will hear it rising through the
building. Then, each in turn, as it reaches you, lift your voices and
call your notes. The chord thus rising through the building will gather
in the flying Letters: it will unite them; it will summon them down to
the fundamental master-tone I utter in the cellar. The moment the Letter
summoned by each particular voice reaches the cellar, that voice must
cease its utterance. Thus, one by one, the four mighty Letters will come
to rest below. The gongs will vibrate in sympathetic resonance; the
colors will tremble and respond; the finely drawn wires will link the
two, and the lens of gas will lead them to the wax, and the record of the
august and terrible syllable will be completely chained. At any desired
moment afterwards I shall be able to reawaken it. Its phonetic utterance,
its correct pronunciation, captured thus in the two media of air and
ether, sound and light, will be in my safe possession, ready for use.

"But"--and he looked down upon his listeners with a dreadful and
impressive gravity that yet only just concealed the bursting exultation
the thought caused him to feel--"remember that once you have uttered your
note, you will have sucked out from the Letter a portion of its own
terrific life and force, which will immediately pass into yourself. You
will instantly absorb this, for you will have called upon a mighty
name--the mightiest--and your prayer will have been answered." He stooped
and whispered as in an act of earnest prayer, "_We shall be as Gods_!"

Something of cold splendor, terribly possessing, came close to them as
he spoke the words; for this was no empty phrase. Behind it lay the great
drive of a relentless reality. And it struck at the very root of the fear
that grew every moment more insistent in the hearts of the two lovers.
They did not want to become as gods. They desired to remain quietly human
and to _love_!

But before either of them could utter speech, even had they dared, the
awful clergyman continued; and nothing brought home to them more vividly
the horrible responsibility of the experiment, and the results of
possible failure, than the few words with which he concluded.

"And to mispronounce, to utter falsely, to call inaccurately, will mean
to summon into life upon the world--and into the heart of the
utterer--that which is incomplete, that which is not God--Devils!--devils
of that subtle Alteration which is destruction--the devils of a Lie."

       *       *       *       *       *

And so for hours at a time they rehearsed the sounds of the chord, but
very softly, lest the sound should rise and reach the four rooms and
invite the escape of the waiting Letters prematurely.

Mrs. Mawle, holding the bit of paper on which her instructions were
clearly written, was as eager almost as her master, and as the note she
had to utter was practically the only one left in the register of her
voice, her deafness provided little difficulty.

"Though when the letters awake into life and cry aloud," said Skale,
beaming upon her dear old apple-skinned face, "it will be in tones that
even the deaf shall hear. For they will spell a measure of redemption
that shall destroy in a second of time all physical disabilities
whatsoever...."

It was at this moment Spinrobin asked a question that for days had
been hovering about his lips. He asked it gravely, hesitatingly, even
solemnly, while Miriam hung upon the answer with an anxiety as great
as his own.

"And if any one of us fails," he said, "and pronounces falsely, will the
result affect all of us, or only the utterer?"

"The utterer only," replied the clergyman. "For it is his own spirit that
must absorb the forces and powers invoked by the sound he utters."

He took the question lightly, it seemed. The possibility of failure was
too remote to be practical.


Chapter XIII


I

But Spinrobin was hardly prepared for the suddenness of the denouement.
He had looked for a longer period of preparation, with the paraphernalia
of a considerable, even an august ceremony. Instead, the announcement
came with an abrupt simplicity that caught him with a horrid shock of
surprise. He was taken wholly unawares.

"The only thing I fear," Mr. Skale had confided to them, "is that the
vibrations of our chord may have already risen to the rooms and cause a
premature escape. But, even so, we shall have ample warning. For the
deaf, being protected from the coarser sounds of earth, are swift to hear
the lightest whispers from Heaven. Mrs. Mawle will know. Mrs. Mawle will
instantly warn us...."

And this, apparently, was what happened, though not precisely as Mr.
Skale had intended, nor with the margin for preparation he had hoped. It
was all so swift and brief and shattering, that to hear Spinrobin tell it
makes one think of a mass of fireworks that some stray spark has sent
with blazing explosion into the air, to the complete loss of the
calculated effect had they gone off seriatim as intended.

And in the awful stress of excitement there can be no question that
Spinny acted out of that subconscious region of the mind which considers
and weighs deeds before passing them on to the surface mind, translating
them into physical expression and thinking itself responsible for the
whole operation. The course he adopted was thus instinctive, and, since
he had no time to judge, blameless.

Neither he nor Miriam had any idea really that their minds,
subconsciously, were already made up. Yet only that morning he had been
talking with her, skirting round the subject as they always did, ashamed
of his doubts about success, and trying to persuade her, and, therefore,
himself, that the path of duty lay in following their leader blindly to
the very end.

He had seen her on the stairs ahead of him, and had overtaken her
quickly. He drew her down beside him, and they sat like two children
perched on the soft-carpeted steps.

"It's coming, you know," he said abruptly, "the moment's getting
very close."

He felt the light shudder that passed through her into himself. She
turned her face to him and he saw the flush of excitement painted in the
center of the usually pale cheeks. He thought of some rare flower,
delicately exotic, that had sprung suddenly into blossom from the heart
of the bleak December day, out of the very boards whereon they sat.

"We shall then be as gods," he added, "filled with the huge power of
those terrific Letters. And that is only the beginning." In himself he
was striving to coax a fading enthusiasm, and to pour it into her. Her
little hand stole into his. "We shall be a sort of angel together, I
suppose. Just think of it...!" His voice was not as thrilling as it ought
to have been, for very human notes vibrated down below in the part he
tried to keep back. He saw the flush fade from her cheeks, and the pallor
spread. "You and I, Miriam--something tremendous together, greater than
any other man and woman in the whole world. Think of it, dear baby; just
think of it...!"

A tiny frown gathered upon her forehead, darkening the grey eyes
with shadows.

"But--lose our Winky!" she said, nestling against his coat, her voice
singularly soft, her fingers scratching gently the palm of his hand
where they lay.

"Hush, hush!" he answered, kissing her into silence. "We must have more
faith. I think everything will be all right. And there is no reason why
we should lose our Winky," he added, very tenderly, smothering the doubt
as best he could, "although we may find his name changed. Like the rest
of us, he will get a 'new name' I suppose."

"Then he won't be _our_ Winky any longer," she objected, with a touch of
obstinacy that was very seductive. "We shall all be different. Perhaps
we shall be too wonderful to need each other any more.... Oh, Spinny,
you precious thing my life needs, think of that! We may be too wonderful
even to care!"

Spinrobin turned and faced her. He tried to speak with authority and
conviction, but he was a bad actor always. He met her soft grey eyes,
already moist and shining with a tenderness of love beyond belief, and
gazed into them with what degree of sternness he could.

"Miriam," he said solemnly, "is it possible that you do not want us to
be as gods?"

Her answer came this time without hesitation. His pretended severity only
made her happy, for nothing could intimidate by a hair's breadth this
exquisite first love of her awakening soul.

"Some day, perhaps, oh, my sweet Master," she whispered with trembling
lips, "but not now. I want to be on earth first with you--and with
our Winky."

To hear that precious little voice call him "sweet Master" was almost
more than he could bear. He made an effort, however, to insist upon this
fancied idea of "duty" to Skale; though everything, of course, betrayed
him--eyes, voice, gestures.

"But we owe it to Mr. Skale to become as gods," he faltered, trying to
make the volume of his voice atone for its lack of conviction.

And it was then she uttered the simple phrase that utterly confounded
him, and showed him the new heaven and new earth wherein he and she and
Winky already lived.

"I am as God _now_," she said simply, the whole passion of a clean,
strong little soul behind the words. "You have made me so! You love me!"


II

The same moment, before they could speak or act, Skale was upon them from
behind with a roar.

"Practicing your splendid notes together!" he cried, thundering down the
steps past them, three at a time, clothed for the first time in the
flowing scarlet robe he usually wore only in the particular room where
his own "note" lived. "That's capital! Sing it together in your hearts
and in your souls and in your minds; and the more the better!"

He swept by them like a storm, vanishing through the hall below like some
living flame of fire. They both understood that he wore that robe for
protection, and that throughout the house the heralds of the approaching
powers of the imprisoned Letters were therefore already astir. One of the
closest parallels to a Greek school of sculpture is to be found in the
group of Pre-Raphaelite artists of the middle of the last century, Morris,
Burne-Jones, Rossetti, Millais, Collins, and their companions.

This group had a religious or ideal starting-point in the revived
Anglo-Catholicism which arose in Oxford at the time, and they had
principles of art in common which they embodied in their work. Their
paintings, before they diverged one from another, form a distinct species,
and have an interest for the historian of civilization greater than that
of any other English school.

IX
In order that we may estimate the influence of Greek art on the civilization
of Europe, it is necessary briefly to trace its reappearances through the
ages. Its first conquest was Rome. The victorious Roman Generals,
Marcellus, Scipio, Flamininus, Mummius, and others, brought to the
imperial city, to adorn their triumphs, an immense quantity of Greek
sculpture and paintings, of which they robbed the great storehouses
of works of art in the temples and stoae of Hellas, Sicily, and
Asia Minor.

The earlier Emperors, especially Nero, followed their example, so
that in the time of Pliny the naturalist all the public places of
Rome were crowded with sculptures of bronze and marble and with the
painted masterpieces of great artists.

It became fashionable for wealthy Romans, such as Hortensius and Cicero,
to stock their country-houses with such works. Even so, the demand was
not satisfied; and Greek artists were imported into Rome,
where they set up great workshops, and poured out an incessant
stream of fresh works of art. Of such our modern museums are full. Generally
speaking they are of little artistic merit, copies of various
degrees of excellence of the great works of earlier generations.

For the Roman plutocrats had little taste. Because certain figures or
groups had a great reputation, and especially because they had
been purchased at a high price by Greek cities and kings, the Roman
collector liked to have copies of them in his villa; and the artists
who produced these copies were mere workers for hire, without
originality and without aspirations.

Sometimes when employed on such works as the Arch of Titus, or the
Column of Trajan, the novelty of the theme stimulated the artist
to attempt something of a more original kind.

And occasionally the fire within took course and produced a finer work
than ordinary. Under the art-loving Emperor Hadrian there was a sort
of St. Martin's summer of sculpture; but its productions were smooth,
elegant and refined rather than original or interesting. The charm
of art was not appreciated by the Roman people; only the few who
professed cultivation really cared whether a figure was good or bad,
and even the few were a little ashamed of their preferences.

Into the Roman Empire, in the first three centuries of our era,
Christianity gradually ate its way. It originated among the Jews, to
whom all representation of living things was hateful. And it developed
under the influence of Greek oriental mysticism, which had no
kinship with sculpture and painting; and so far as it had any
expression in those arts worked in the direction of that symbolism
against which Greek art was a protest.

Thus we could not expect any fresh inspiration for art from early Christianity;
on the contrary, Christianity would work upon it as a blighting
influence. If we examine the remains of Christian art in those early
centuries, in sarcophagus and mural painting, we find that it merely
copied the contemporary pagan art, only changing the subjects portrayed,
and introducing a further development in the symbolic interpretation
of ordinary scenes.

Christianity offered almost no field for the exercise of Greek
anthropomorphism.

The latter was closely bound up with polytheism and hero-worship. The
Christian Apostles and Saints, who took the place of the pagan Deities,
were men who had lived on the earth and whose deeds belonged not to
mythology but to history, although at the time the line between history
and mythology was not clearly drawn, and history was largely diluted
with myth. A few impersonations of nature, such as river-gods, lingered
on in the paintings of the Roman catacombs. And winged genii were
common there, whether cupids or cherubs it would be hard to say.

But there was no realm into which artistic fancy could stray, filling
it with super-men and super-women.

Angels might be portrayed; but they all came from the Jewish angelology;
and there was no artistic tradition as to their types: it was only later
that the types of Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and others were distinguished.

The second principle of Greek art, balance and symmetry, had almost disappeared
in pagan art in the Antonine age.

The reliefs of triumphal arches and of sarcophagi are crowded
with figures inserted without order or method. Even the mural paintings
of Pompeii have escaped from control; and show no purposeful arrangement.
Law and order have given place to individual fancy, unless in cases where
earlier schemes are adopted. And with artistic arrangement has disappeared
all attempt to idealize, to produce forms nobler and more beautiful
than those seen every day.

The figure of Antinous is the latest in which we find any attempt to
produce a type of ideal beauty.

Even the Virgin Mary and her Son are depicted without any attempt to
render them beautiful. Nor indeed does naturalism fare better than
idealism. The representation of the human body is no longer studied.
The figures are clothed: and the clothing is purely conventional,
while the features of the landscape are far less carefully introduced
than in Hellenistic Greek art.

In fact one feels that the artist had little interest in his art. Scenes
from the Old and the New Testament are the usual subjects. But the
depiction is little more than picture-writing, mere copies of traditional
groups. The only thing regarded as of any interest is the meaning. The
ethical and spiritual point of view overlies and smothers any interest
in the representation.

And this predominance of the didactic element over the sense of
proportion, the love of beauty, the appreciation of nature prevails
more and more as Europe slowly moves towards the dark ages.

The lamps of Greek art burn more and more dimly. They are never wholly
extinguished; for in all ages there are born artists to whom they are the
light of life; and in mediaeval carvings one finds here and there a touch
of humanism, most often in grotesque or satyric figures.

We must never forget that some of the later masterpieces of Greek
work, such as the Column of Trajan and the Arch of Beneventum, were
always to be seen. And little as they were appreciated by ordinary
people, an artist here and there derived from them some appreciation
of the beauty of humanity.

Then in the thirteenth century the dry bones began to come together. The
breath of fresh life stirred Europe, or at least parts of Europe,
such as North Italy, Southern Germany, Eastern France. The magnificent
Gothic Cathedrals rising in the north called forth the talent of
the painter and the sculptor for their adornment.

A great Christian art arose, and in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries
flourished widely. Certain qualities of high art it
certainly had. It was lighted by the lamp of fellowship. The sculpture
was the work not of individuals, but of guilds, groups of workers of the
same style, and inspired by the same motives. It attained to great
beauty in decoration, in the adaptation to architectural purpose of the
forms of plants and flowers. Where it was most defective was in the
rendering of the human form, whether nude or draped, for in such matters
the artists had no schooling to be compared with that of the
Greeks.

When the full Renaissance came with the dispersion of the educated
Greeks through Europe, there was a conscious reawakening of the
artistic influence of Greece, contemporaneously with the revived
interest in Greek literature and philosophy. A few great works of ancient
sculpture, the Laocoon, the Dying Gaul of the Capitol, the Apollo Belvedere
were discovered; and collections of ancient gems and coins were formed
by many of the wealthy. We can judge from the life of Benvenuto Cellini
how profound was the effect produced by such discoveries. The great
Italians of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries felt as if they had
climbed out of darkness into light. To rival works of Greek art was
looked upon as the highest ambition which an artist could cherish.

Sculptors so great as Donatello and Michelangelo took the scanty remains
of Greek masterpieces as their models, and measured their attainments by
the degree of success which they reached in copying them.

The lamps of Greek balance and symmetry, Greek idealism, and Greek
naturalism were rekindled, and the crowd of artists vied one with
another in walking by their light.

We may mark four stages in the rediscovery of Greek sculpture. The first
is the Italian Renaissance already mentioned. The second originated
in the visit of Winckelmann to Italy in 1755, and the application
by Goethe and Lessing of his discoveries to the judgement of
contemporary art.

It tended greatly to the raising and purifying of the artistic taste of
Europe. The splendid promise of the Renaissance had degenerated into
the mannerism and extravagance of Bernini and his contemporaries.

Winckelmann called it back to simplicity, to self-restraint, to
ideality.

But before long this teaching also was perverted; and such sculptors
as Thorwaldsen and Canova were misled by the defects of the inferior
examples of Greek sculpture, which were the only ones accessible to
Winckelmann, into a slavish copy of the antique or works of an
artificial grand style.

Then came the third wave of revived Greek influence, when the
sculptures of the Parthenon found a home in London, and critics
were able to observe how infinitely superior the masterpieces of a
really great age were to the copies of Roman times and the adaptations
of the Hellenistic age.

When Haydon the painter first saw the Parthenon marbles he was immensely
impressed; but that which struck him most strongly was not the ideality,
for which they have since become proverbial, but the wonderful
naturalism of much of their detail in contrast to the grandiose
conventions of his contemporaries. The fourth stage in our knowledge of
Greek sculpture comes from the very fruitful excavations on Greek
soil, especially at Athens, Olympia, and Delphi, which have shown us how
widely varied is the range of the ancient sculptors, how many their
styles, how admirable their technique.

This extension of our knowledge has not, it is true, as yet much affected
contemporary art, as art was affected by the teachings of Winckelmann
and the publishing of the marbles of the Parthenon.

Until last year there was no book in English setting forth the results
of the excavations of Delphi; and there is even now no book in English
performing the same service for the excavations at Olympia. Sculptors are
so little educated in the history of their craft, that they do not
easily learn from new sources of knowledge. But by degrees, beyond
doubt, the new views of Greek art will filter down to them. A few recently
discovered sculptures, such as the Charioteer of Delphi, the Hermes
of Praxiteles, the bronze head from Beneventum in the Louvre, the
Demeter of Cnidus, have by their overpowering charm affected artists
and art.

And most sculptors profess a great admiration for Greek works, notably
Rodin, who, although the tendency of his works is not in a classical
direction, yet uses the strongest language in praising the Greek
masterpieces. But in general the tendency of art towards extreme
individualism and the search after novelty have more than counteracted
the somewhat shallow admiration of sculptors for what is antique.

X
At present religion and culture alike are struggling against the
waves of barbarism reinvading.

It is not my business to speak here of the forces which are trying to
crush religion among us. But I may fitly conclude by sketching some of the
tendencies against which culture based upon that of Greece is our best
antidote. If I have rightly set forth the principles of Greek literature
and art in past pages, the nature of their influence under present
conditions will be clear.

I must venture on a parallel which seems to me very suggestive, though
some readers may regard it as risky. There are two great standards
set up in the past, to control the wayward fanaticisms of men, and to
keep them within the bounds of reason and good sense.

The standard in religion is set by the New Testament: the standard in art
is set by Greece. As at the Renaissance the peoples of Europe went
back for their inspiration and their models to the literature and
the art of Hellas, so at the Reformation they, or at all events the
Teutonic races, went back to the early records of Christianity, appealing
to them against the venality and corruption of the dominant Church. And
ever since, at intervals, there has arisen, alike in the field
of culture and in that of religion, an echo of the appeal to the
classical past.

It is to the New Testament that Apostles like John Wesley and George
Fox made their appeal, setting up in opposition to the conventions
and worldliness of the Church in their times the spirituality and
simplicity of the apostolic age, just as Goethe and Lessing turned men's
minds from what was contrary to reason and good taste in their surroundings
to Greek beauty and simplicity. And however some of the followers of Wesley
and Fox may have gone beyond due bounds towards fanaticism, yet
in every branch of the Christian Society the influence of those
modern prophets has been renovating and purifying, just as the
schools of critics which followed Goethe tended greatly to increase
among us sweetness and light.

In our schools and colleges, until quite lately, the religion of the
New Testament and the tradition of the Greek and Roman Classics have gone
together, the one preserving us from superstition and materialism in
religion, the other making war upon the inherited barbarisms and
brutalities which we have from our not very distant ancestors. The spirit
of anarchy in religion would persuade us that there is no divine
sanction for goodness and no eternal stamp on vice, that morality
is a matter of convention which every society and every nation has
a right to invert if it judges such inversion in the line of its
interests.

The spirit of anarchy in art proclaims that all the works of nature
are equally beautiful or equally ugly, that nothing which exists is
unfit to be represented in our galleries and public places, that
so long as a picture or a statue arouses a sentiment it does not
matter whether the sentiment be one of delight and aspiration or
one of horror.

If once the idea of beauty as the end to be aimed at be expelled
from art, art sinks like a stone to the bottom of the sea.

Some people are ready to tolerate any monstrosity in art, however remote
from nature, however offensive to decency, however repugnant to humanity.
The whole artistic inheritance of the race from the day when men
began to climb out of barbarism is liable to be thrown away by an
age which has unbounded confidence in its own wisdom.

I should, however, be sorry to stop at this point, for I might leave on
readers the impression that I am in favour of the mere imitation
of works of Greek art.

That is by no means my view. In the last century several sculptors,
overpowered by the charm of the antique, produced statues which
closely followed ancient patterns, such as the Hope and the Hebe
of Thorwaldsen, some of the statues of Rauch and Schadow, and the
tinted Venus of Gibson.

Such works were necessarily stillborn; they had not in them any breath
of the life of a new age, any attempt to conform to changed conditions.
Very different was the following of the antique by Michelangelo.
He admired with enthusiasm such works of the Greek chisel as he knew;
but he produced not dull and academic reflections of them, but works
of the most splendid originality and the greatest charm. He imbibed not
the letter but the spirit of Greek art; and even succeeded better
than most artists in combining that spirit with a breath of Christianity.

The parallel which I have drawn may be carried farther.

A reversion to the letter of the New Testament writers has been often
attempted by considerable religious leaders of our time, especially
Tolstoi and the Quakers.

They have gone back to the injunctions of the Sermon on the Mount, and
tried literally to abide by them. But it has become apparent to all but
fanatics that such procedure would be fatal to civil government and
civilized life. It is the spirit not the letter of the teaching of
Jesus which is life-giving. In just the same way an acceptance of the
mere externals of Greek art would not help us at all; but a revival
of its spirit would be a great inspiration to modern artists. The lamps
of Greek art will give light in any age. Greek idealism, Greek balance and
measure, Greek love of what is natural and healthful, Greek simplicity
and moderation are of the very essence of good art in all ages. We can
no more revive the exact conditions under which art arose than we can
import into England the clear air, the bright sun, the clear-cut
shadows of the Greek landscape.

But we can still look up to the philosophy, the poetry, and the art of
Greece as classical, as a revelation of what is most pleasing and most
enduring in human nature. And if we neglect them and reject them from
the education of our children, we shall destroy what has been ever
since the Renaissance the source of pure joy and refined feeling in
the majority of cultured men; we shall make a great gap which
material prosperity, a deeper knowledge of the secrets of nature,
the invention of fresh modes of amusement, can never fill.

And if we trust merely to the reflections of the Greek spirit in
modern literature and art, we shall be acting as the Roman Church in its
darker ages has acted, in shutting away from the people recourse to the
primary documents of religion, and obliging them to be content with
such interpretations of those documents as the ruling hierarchy judged
to be useful. We must retain the right of appeal to our classical
examples, whether in religion, in literature, or in art.
Arnold was right. The Bible, Homer, Shakespeare, Greek art remain the
stars by which we may direct our course over stormy seas.

P. GARDNER.

ARCHITECTURE

Nobody has ever disputed the beauty of Greek Architecture. We recognize
the justice of a description of the Parthenon as 'le suprême effort
du génie à la poursuite du beau'; but the layman must sometimes ask
himself what does it mean?

Where did it come from, where did it go to, why is it thought so beautiful,
how was it that this people relatively insignificant in power, in
territory, and in numbers, was able to attain to this astonishing
supremacy in art? These are questions not easily answered.

The evidence is fragmentary and not always conclusive, the ruins
of a few temples and buildings, a technical treatise by a garrulous
third-rate writer in the first century A.

Placing her on the ground, he caught a glimpse of her eyes in the
darkness, and saw that they were still charged with the one devouring
passion that had made the sacrifice of Skale and of all her training
since birth inevitable. Soft and glowing with her first knowledge of
love, her grey eyes shone like stars newly risen.

"Come, come!" he whispered hoarsely; "we must get as far as
possible--away from it all. Across the hills we shall find safety. Once
the splendors overtake us we are lost...."

Seizing her by the hand, they pressed on again, the ocean of sound rising
and thundering behind them and below.

Without knowing it, he had taken the path by which the clergyman had
brought him from the station weeks ago on the day of his first arrival.
With a confused memory, as of a dream, he recognized it. The ground was
slippery with dead leaves whose odor penetrated sharply the air of night.
Everywhere about him, as they paused from time to time in the little open
spaces, the trees pressed up thickly; and ever from the valley they had
just left the increasing tide of sound came pouring up after them like
the roar of the sea escaping through doors upon the surface of the world.

And even now the marvelous, enticing wonder of it caught him more than
once and made him hesitate. The sense of what he was giving up sickened
him with a great sudden yearning of regret. The mightiness of that loved
leader, lonely and unafraid, trafficking with the principalities and
powers of sound, and reckoning without misgiving upon the cooperation of
his other "notes"--this plucked fearfully at his heartstrings. But only
in great tearing gusts, so to speak, which passed the instant he realized
the little breathless, grey-eyed girl at his side, charged with her
beautiful love for him and the wholesome ambition for human things.

"Oh! but the heaven we're losing...!" he cried once aloud,
unable to contain himself. "Oh, Miriam ... and I have proved
unworthy ... small...!"

"Small enough to stay with me forever and ever ... here on the earth,"
she replied passionately, seizing his hand and drawing him further up the
hill. Then she stopped suddenly and gathered a handful of dead leaves,
moss, twigs and earth. The exquisite familiar perfume as she held it to
his face pierced through him with a singular power of conviction.

"We should lose _this_," she exclaimed; "there's none of this ... in
heaven! The earth, the earth, the dear, beautiful earth, with you ... and
Winky ... is what I want!"

And when he stopped her outburst with a kiss, fully understanding the
profound truth she so quaintly expressed, he smelt the trees and
mountains in her hair, and her fragrance was mingled there with the
fragrance of that old earth on which they stood.


VII

The rising flood of sound sent them charging ahead the same minute, for
it seemed upon them with a rush; and it was only after much stumbling and
floundering among trees and boulders that they emerged into the open
space of the hills beyond the woods. Actually, perhaps, they had been
running for twenty minutes, but to them it seemed that they had been
running for days. They stood still and looked about them.

"You shall never regret, never, never," Miriam whispered quickly. "I can
make you happier than all this ever could," and she waved her arm towards
the house below. "And you know it, my little Master."

But before he could reply, or do more than place an arm about her waist
to support her, something came to pass that communicated its message to
their souls with an incalculable certainty neither could explain.
Perhaps it was that distance enabled them to distinguish between the
sounds more clearly, or perhaps their beings were still so intimately
connected with Skale that some psychic warning traveled up to them across
the night; but at any rate there then came about this sharp and sudden
change in the quality of the sound-tempest round them that proclaimed the
arrival of an exceedingly dramatic moment. The nature of the rushing,
flying vibrations underwent alteration. And, looking one another in the
eyes, they realized what it meant.

"He's beginning ..." faltered Spinrobin in some skeleton of a voice.
"Skale has begun to _utter_...!" He said it beneath his breath.

Down in the cellar of that awful house the giant clergyman, alone and
undismayed, had begun to call the opening vibration of the living chord
which was to gather in this torrent of escaping Letters and unite them in
temporary safety in the crypts of the prepared vault. For the first time
in eighteen hundred years the initial sound of the "Name that rusheth
through the universe"--the first sound of its opening syllable, that
is--was about to thunder its incalculable message over the earth.

Crouching close against each other they stood there on the edge of the
woods, the night darkly smothering about them, the bare, open hills lying
beyond in the still sky, waiting for the long-apprehended climax--the
utterance of the first great syllable.

"It will make him ... as God," crashed the thought through Spinrobin's
brain as he experienced the pangs of the fiercest remorse he had ever
known. "Even without our two notes the power will be sublime...!"

But, through Miriam's swiftly-beating heart, as she pressed closer and
closer: "I know your true name ... and you are mine. What else in heaven
or earth can ever matter...?"


Chapter XIV


I

Skale had indeed begun to utter. And to these two bewildered children
standing there alone with their love upon the mountain, it seemed that
the whole world knew.

Those desolate hills that rolled away like waves beneath the stars; the
whispering woods about them; the distant sea, eternally singing its own
note of sadness; the boulders at their feet; the very stars themselves,
listening in the heart of night--one and all were somehow aware that a
portion of the great Name which first called them into being was about to
issue from the sleep of ages once again into manifestation....Perhaps
to quicken them into vaster life, perhaps to change their forms, perhaps
to merge them all back into the depths of the original "word" of
creation ... with the roar of a dissolving universe....

Through everything, from the heart of the hidden primroses below the soil
to the center of the huge moors above, there ran some swift thrill of
life as the sounds of which they were the visible expression trembled in
sympathetic resonance with the opening vibrations of the great syllable.

Philip Skale had begun to utter. Alone in the cellar of that
tempest-stricken house, already aware probably that the upper notes of
his chord had failed him, he was at last in the act of calling upon the
Name that Rusheth through the Universe ... the syllable whose powers
should pass into his own being and make him as the gods....

And, first of all, to the infinite surprise of these two listening,
shaking lovers, the roaring thunders that had been battling all about
them, grew faint and small, and then dropped away into mere trickles of
sound, retreating swiftly down into the dark valley where the house
stood, as though immense and invisible leashes drew them irresistibly
back. One by one the Letters fled away, leaving only a murmur of
incredibly sweet echoes behind them in the hills, as the master-sound,
spoken by this fearless and audacious man, gathered them into their
appointed places in the cellar.

But if they expected stupendous things to follow they were at first
singularly disappointed. For, instead of woe and terror, instead of the
foundering of the visible universe, there fell about the listening world
a cloak of the most profound silence they had ever known, soft beyond
conception. The Name was not in the whirlwind. Out of the heart of that
deathly stillness it came--a small, sweet voice, that was undeniably the
voice of Philip Skale, its awful thunders all smoothed away. With it,
too, like a faint overtone, came the yet gentler music of another voice.
The bass and alto were uttering their appointed notes in harmony and
without dismay.

Everywhere the sound rose up through the darkness of great distance, yet
at the same time ran most penetratingly sweet, close beside them in their
very ears. So magically intimate indeed was it, yet so potentially huge
for all its soft beginning, that Spinrobin declares that what he heard
was probably not the actual voices, but only some high liberated
harmonics of them.

The sounds, moreover, were not distinguishable as consonants and vowels
in the ordinary sense, and to this day remain for him beyond all reach
of possible reproduction. He did not hear them as "word" or "syllable,"
but as some incalculably splendid Message that was too mighty to be
taken in, yet at the same time was sweeter than all imagined music,
simple as a little melody "sweetly sung in tune," artless as wind
through rustling branches.

And, moreover, as this small, sweet voice ran singing everywhere about
them in the darkness of hills and woods, Spinrobin realized, with a
whole revolution of wonder sweeping through him, that the sound, for all
its gentleness, was at work vehemently upon the surface of the
landscape, altering and shifting the pattern of the solid earth, just as
the sand had wreathed into outlines at the sound of his own voice weeks
ago, and as the form of the clergyman had changed at the vibrations of
the test night.

The first letters of the opening syllable of this divine and magical
name were passing over the world ... shifting the myriad molecules that
composed it by the stress and stir of its vast harmonics ... changing
the pattern.

But this time the change was not dreadful; the new outline, even before
he actually perceived it, was beautiful above all known forms of beauty.
The outer semblance of the old earth appeared to melt away and reveal
that heart of clean and dazzling wonder which burns ever at its inmost
core--the naked spirit divined by poets and mystics since the beginning
of time. It was a new heaven and a new earth that pulsed below them in
response to the majesty of this small sweet voice. All nature knew, from
the birds that started out of sleep into passionate singing, to the fish
that stirred in the depths of the sea, and the wild deer that sprang
alert in their wintry coverts, scenting an eternal spring. For the earth
rolled up as a scroll, shaking the outworn skin of centuries from her
face, and suffering all her rocky structure to drop away and disclose the
soft and glowing loveliness of an actual being--a being most tenderly and
exquisitely alive. It was the beginning of spiritual vision in their own
hearts. The name had set them free. The blind saw--a part of God....


II

And then, in Spinrobin's heart, the realization of failure--that he was
not in his appointed place, following his great leader to the stars,
clashed together with the splendor of his deep and simple love for this
trembling slip of a girl beside him.

The thought that God, as it were, had called him and he had been afraid
to run and answer to his name overpowered his timid, aching soul with
such a flood of emotion that he found himself struggling with a glorious
temptation to tear down the mountainside again to the house and play his
appointed part--utter his note in the chord even thus late. For the
essential bitterness and pain that lies at the heart of all transitory
earthly things--the gnawing sense of incompleteness and vanity that
touches the section of transitory existence men call "life," met face to
face with this passing glimpse of reality, timeless and unconditioned,
which the sound of the splendid name flashed so terrifically before his
awakened soul-vision,--and threatened to overwhelm him.

In another instant he would have yielded and gone; forgotten even
Miriam, and all the promised sweetness of life with her half-planned,
when something came to pass abruptly that threw his will and all his
little calculations into a dark chaos of amazement where, by a kind
of electrically swift reaction, he realized that the one true,
possible and right thing for him was this very love he was about to cast
aside. His highest destiny was upon the unchanged old earth ... with
Miriam ... and Winky....

She turned and flung her arms round his neck in a passion of tears as
though she had divined his unspoken temptation ... and at the same time
this awful new thing was upon them both. It caught them like a tempest.
'Man is the measure of all things' is the doctrine ascribed to Protagoras
of Abdera, which shocked the people of Athens and is attacked by
Plato in his more constructive mood.

It is a doctrine lending itself to abuse, and still more to
caricature; but it is really the teaching of Socrates no less than of
Protagoras; and it has held its own from his times to those of the
Utilitarians and Pragmatists.

Certainly it is at the basis of the Greek view of life, in which
man with his feelings, his faculties, and his endeavours, stands
in the foreground, and all else appears as a vague background.

It was quite natural that as the Greek thinkers interpreted all experience
in relation to human powers and faculties, so the artists of Greece
thought of all nature in terms of the human body. Thus while the stern
monotheism of later Israel absolutely prohibited the representation
in art of any living thing, and especially of man, Greek artists
entirely devoted themselves to such representation.

The great result of the working of the spirit of humanism in Greek
art was the representation of the Gods in human form.

There is still prevalent among us a survival of the Jewish hatred of
the representation of the divine element in the world by the mimetic art
of sculpture. We still repeat, day by day, the Jewish commandment,
'Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven image'. Now I am not going
to find any fault with the intense feeling of iconoclasm, which was one
of the mainsprings of Jewish religion. I have no doubt that in the
development of that religion, hatred and contempt for the idols
of the surrounding nations was of inestimable value to the race.

The struggle, ever renewed, against the invasion of idolatry was
necessary to the development of that pure prophetic religion which
it was the highest mission of the Jewish race to set forth and
propagate in the world.

I would not even speak against the echoes of it in the modern world. To
the Moslems of our days, as to the ancient Jews, it appears to be a
necessary corollary of any lofty and spiritual conception of the divine.
And when we read of the destruction of religious images by our Puritan
ancestors we cannot withhold from them an inner sympathy. The hatred of
images was one side of the pure and passionate belief in spiritual religion
which it was the mission of the great Reformers to revive and propagate
in Europe.

But it is possible to appreciate this side of religion without being
blind to other aspects of it. Our religion comes not only from Judaea,
but also from Greece. The Jewish passion for the divine righteousness lies
at its roots. But that passion is consistent with narrowness, bigotry,
inhumanity. For the modifications of it which come from the working of
the spirit of humanism we have to turn to the Hellenes, for the feeling
of the likeness in nature between God and man, the love of the beauty
of the created works of God, the joy in whatever is sweet, whatever is
comely, whatever is charming. The beauty and majesty of God appealed
to the Greek, as the unapproachable transcendence of God inspired the
Jew.

So it fell to the Greek artists to try to set forth in marble and
in bronze the gentler and more social side of the divine nature.

There is a sweet reasonableness in the words of Maximus of Tyre: 'The
Greek custom is to represent the Gods by the most beautiful things on
earth--pure material, the human form, consummate art.

The idea of those who make divine images in human shape is quite
reasonable, since the spirit of man is nearest of all things to God and
most godlike.'
The whole history of Greek sculpture, from its rise in the sixth
century to its decline in the third, is inspired by this desire to
represent the divine by the most beautiful things on earth.

The sculpture of the great nations of the East, Egypt and Assyria, is
full of figures of the Gods, and of scenes of worship. But these figures
do not rise above the human.
The gods appear as conventional figures, mere ordinary men and
women.
And to distinguish them from mortal beings, the artists of the East
proceed in the manner of symbolism: they make additions to the human
types which are to signify the divine attributes, but do not really
embody them.

They add wings to represent the swiftness of the deity, wings not meant
for actual flight, but only symbols of rapid motion.
They represent them as victoriously overthrowing wild beasts and monsters,
which stand for the powers of evil, ever bent on thwarting their action.
In some of their most archaic works, the Greeks fall into the
imitation of this way.

They represent Apollo flanked by two vanquished griffins, Artemis with
wings, and holding in her hands captive lions.
cried Miriam, though he divined the meaning from the gesture
of her free hand rather than actually heard the words.

And, leaning their trembling bodies against a great boulder behind
them, they then saw in the midst of the conflagration, or hovering
dimly above it rather, the vast outlines of the captured sounds--the
Letters--escaping back again into the womb of eternal silence from which
they had been with such appalling courage evoked. In forms of dazzling
blackness they passed upwards in their chariots of flame, yet at the same
time passed _inwards_ in some amazing kind of spiral motion upon their
own axes, vanishing away with incredible swiftness and beauty deep down
into themselves ... and were gone.

Realizing in some long-forgotten fashion of childhood the fearful majesty
of the wrath of Jehovah, yet secretly undismayed because each felt so
gloriously lost in their wonderful love, the bodies of Miriam and
Spinrobin dropped instinctively upon their knees, and, still tightly
clasped in one another's arms, bowed their foreheads to the ground,
touching the earth and leaves.

But how long they rested thus upon the heart of the old earth, or
whether they slept, or whether, possibly, the inevitable reaction to all
the overstrain of the past hours led them through a period of
unconsciousness, neither of them quite knew. Nor was it possible for
them to have known, perhaps, that the lonely valley sheltering the House
of Awe, running tongue-like into these desolate hills, had the
unenviable reputation of trembling a little in sympathy with any
considerable shock of earthquake that came to move that portion of the
round globe from her sleep. Of this they knew as little, no doubt, as
they did of the ill-defined line of demarcation between experiences that
are objective, capable of being weighed and measured, and those that are
subjective, taking place--though with convincing authority--only in the
sphere of the mind....

All they do know, and Spinrobin tells it with an expression of supreme
happiness upon his shining round face, is that at length they stirred
as they lay, opened their eyes, turned and looked at one another, then
stood up. On Miriam's hair and lashes lay the message of the dew, and
in her clear eyes all the soft beauty of the stars that had watched
over them.

But the stars themselves had gone. Over the hills ran the colored feet of
the dawn, swift and rosy, touching the spread of heathery miles with the
tints of approaching sunrise. The tops of the leafless trees stirred
gently with a whisper of wind that stole up from the distant sea. The
birds were singing. Over the surface of the old earth flew the magical
thrill of life. (Fig. 8). It is a portrait indeed. The long lean arms and
the pose are quite as individual and characteristic as the face
with its melancholy expression and deep lines of anxiety.

We have the man from head to foot; not as is so often the case in modern
statues, a portrait head set on a conventional body.

[Illustration: Fig. 8. DEMOSTHENES By Polyeuctus]
For comparison with Demosthenes I set a statue of a great modern
statesman, Abraham Lincoln, by Barnard (Fig. 9), not the best statue
of him, but one which is approved by many.

It aims at truth, but only attains caricature, by exaggerating
Lincoln's awkwardness and angularity, the size of his hands and
feet, and the anxiety in his face.

"Hush!" he
whispered, "hush!"

For the little "word" between these two was not yet made flesh. But the
dawn-wind caught up that "hush" and carried it to the trees and
undergrowth about them, and then ran thousand-footed before them to
whisper it to the valley where they were going.

And Miriam, knowing the worship and protection in his delicate caress,
looked up into his face and smiled--and the smile in her grey eyes was
that ancient mother-smile which is coeval with life. For the word of
creation flamed in these two hearts, waiting only to be uttered.