E-text prepared by MRK


THE HALF-HEARTED

by

JOHN BUCHAN


NOTE

For the convenience of the reader it may
be stated that the period of this tale is the
closing years of the 19th Century.


CONTENTS

PART I

      I. EVENING IN GLENAVELIN
     II. LADY MANORWATER'S GUESTS
    III. UPLAND WATER
     IV. AFTERNOON IN A GARDEN
      V. A CONFERENCE OF THE POWERS
     VI. PASTORAL
    VII. THE MAKERS OF EMPIRE
   VIII. MR. WRATISLAW'S ADVENT
     IX. THE Episodes OF A DAY
      X. HOME TRUTHS
     XI. THE PRIDE BEFORE A FALL
    XII. PASTORAL AND TRAGEDY
   XIII. THE PLEASURES OF A CONSCIENCE
    XIV. A GENTLEMAN IN STRAITS
     XV. THE NEMESIS OF A COWARD
    XVI. A MOVEMENT OF THE POWERS
   XVII. THE BRINK OF THE RUBICON
  XVIII. THE FURTHER BRINK
    XIX. THE BRIDGE OF BROKEN HEARTS

PART II

     XX. THE EASTERN ROAD
    XXI. IN THE HEART OF THE HILLS
   XXII. THE OUTPOSTS
  XXIII. THE DINNER AT GALETTI'S
   XXIV. THE TACTICS OP A CHIEF
    XXV. MRS. LOGAN'S BALL
   XXVI. FRIEND TO FRIEND
  XXVII. THE ROAD TO FORZA
 XXVIII. THE HILL-FORT
   XXIX. The WAY TO NAZRI
    XXX. EVENING IN THE HILLS
   XXXI. EVENTS SOUTH OF THE BORDER
  XXXII. THE BLESSING OF GAD


THE HALF-HEARTED

PART I

CHAPTER I

EVENING IN GLENAVELIN

From the heart of a great hill land Glenavelin stretches west and south
to the wider Gled valley, where its stream joins with the greater water
in its seaward course. Its head is far inland in a place of mountain
solitudes, but its mouth is all but on the lip of the sea, and salt
breezes fight with the flying winds of the hills. It is a land of green
meadows on the brink of heather, of far-stretching fir woods that climb
to the edge of the uplands and sink to the fringe of corn. Nowhere is
there any march between art and nature, for the place is in the main for
sheep, and the single road which threads the glen is little troubled
with cart and crop-laden wagon. Midway there is a stretch of wood and
garden around the House of Glenavelin, the one great dwelling-place in
the vale. But it is a dwelling and a little more, for the home of the
real lords of the land is many miles farther up the stream, in the
moorland house of Etterick, where the Avelin is a burn, and the hills
hang sharply over its source. To a stranger in an afternoon it seems a
very vale of content, basking in sun and shadow, green, deep, and
silent. But it is also a place of storms, for its name means the "glen
of white waters," and mist and snow are commoner in its confines than
summer heats.

On a very wet evening in June a young man in a high dogcart was driving
up the glen. A deer-stalker's cap was tied down over his ears, and the
collar of a great white waterproof defended his neck. A cheerful
bronzed face was shadowed by the peak of his cap, and two very keen grey
eyes peered out into the mist. He was driving with tight rein, for the
mare was fresh and the road had awkward slopes and corners; but none the
less he was dreaming, thinking pleasant thoughts, and now and then
looking cheerily at the ribs of hill which at times were cleared of
mist. His clean-shaven face was wet and shining with the drizzle, pools
formed on the floor of the cart, and the mare's flanks were plastered
with the weather.

Suddenly he drew up sharp at the sight of a figure by the roadside.

"Hullo, Doctor Gracey," he cried, "where on earth have you come from?
Come in and I'll give you a lift."

The figure advanced and scrambled into the vacant seat. It was a little
old man in a big topcoat with a quaint-fashioned wide-awake hat on his
head. In ill weather all distinctions are swept away. The stranger
might have been a statesman or a tramp.

"It is a pleasure to see you, Doctor," and the young man grasped a
mittened hand and looked into his companion's face. There was something
both kindly and mirthful in his grey eyes.

The old man arranged his seat comfortably, buttoned another button at
the neck of the coat, and then scrutinised the driver. "It's four
years--four years in October since I last cast eyes on you, Lewie, my
boy," he said. "I heard you were coming, so I refused a lift from
Haystounslacks and the minister. Haystounslacks was driving from
Gledsmuir, and unless the Lord protects him he will be in Avelin water
ere he gets home. Whisky and a Glenavelin road never agree, Lewie, as I
who have mended the fool's head a dozen times should know. But I
thought you would never come, and was prepared to ride in the next
baker's van." The Doctor spoke with the pure English and high northern
voice of an old school of professional men, whose tongue, save in
telling a story, knew not the vernacular, and yet in its pitch and
accent inevitably betrayed their birthplace. Precise in speech and
dress, uncommonly skilful, a mild humorist, and old in the world's
wisdom, he had gone down the evening way of life with the heart of a
boy.

"I was delayed--I could not help it, though I was all afternoon at the
job," said the young man. "I've seen a dozen and more tenants and I
talked sheep and drains till I got out of my depth and was gravely
corrected. It's the most hospitable place on earth, this, but I thought
it a pity to waste a really fine hunger on the inevitable ham and eggs,
so I waited for dinner. Lord, I have an appetite! Come and dine,
Doctor. I am in solitary state just now, and long, wet evenings are
dreary."

"I'm afraid I must excuse myself, Lewie," was the formal answer, with
just a touch of reproof. Dinner to Doctor Gracey was a serious
ceremony, and invitations should not be scattered rashly. "My
housekeeper's wrath is not to be trifled with, as you should know."

"I do," said the young man in a tone of decent melancholy. "She once
cuffed my ears the month I stayed with you for falling in the burn.
Does she beat you, Doctor?"

"Indeed, no," said the little old gentleman; "not as yet. But
physically she is my superior and I live in terror." Then abruptly, "For
heaven's sake, Lewie, mind the mare."

"It's all right," said the driver, as the dogcart swung neatly round an
ugly turn. "There's the mist going off the top of Etterick Law,
and--why, that's the end of the Dreichill?"

"It's the Dreichill, and beyond it is the Little Muneraw. Are you glad
to be home, Lewie?"

"Rather," said the young man gravely. "This is my own countryside, and
I fancy it's the last place a man forgets."

"I fancy so--with right-thinking people. By the way, I have much to
congratulate you on. We old fogies in this desert place have been often
seeing your name in the newspapers lately. You are a most experienced
traveller."

"Fair. But people made a great deal more of that than it deserved. It
was very simple, and I had every chance. Some day I will go out and do
the same thing again with no advantages, and if I come back you may
praise me then."

"Right, Lewie. A bare game and no chances is the rule of war. And now,
what will you do?"

"Settle down," said the young man with mock pathos, "which in my case
means settling up also. I suppose it is what you would call the crucial
moment in my life. I am going in for politics, as I always intended,
and for the rest I shall live a quiet country life at Etterick. I've a
wonderful talent for rusticity."

The Doctor shot an inquiring glance from beneath the flaps of his hat.
"I never can make up my mind about you, Lewie."

"I daresay not. It is long since I gave up trying to make up my mind
about myself."

"When you were a very small and very bad boy I made the usual prophecy
that you would make a spoon or spoil a horn. Later I declared you would
make the spoon. I still keep to that opinion, but I wish to goodness I
knew what shape your spoon would take."

"Ornamental, Doctor, some odd fancy spoon, but not useful. I feel an
inner lack of usefulness."

"Humph! Then things are serious, Lewie, and I, as your elder, should
give advice; but confound it, my dear, I cannot think what it should be.
Life has been too easy for you, a great deal too easy. You want a
little of the salt and iron of the world. You are too clever ever to be
conceited, and you are too good a fellow ever to be a fool, but apart
from these sad alternatives there are numerous middle stages which are
not very happy."

The young man's face lengthened, as it always did either in repose or
reflection.

"You are old and wise, Doctor. Have you any cure for a man with
sufficient money and no immediate profession to prevent stagnation?"

"None," said the Doctor; "but the man himself can find many. The chief
is that he be conscious of his danger, and on the watch against it. As
a last expedient I should recommend a second course of travel."

"But am I to be barred from my home because of this bogey of yours?"

"No, Lewie lad, but you must be kept, as you say, 'up to scratch,'" and
the old face smiled. "You are too good to waste. You Haystouns are
high-strung, finicking people, on whom idleness sits badly. Also you
are the last of your race and have responsibilities. You must remember
I was your father's friend, and knew you all well."

At the mention of his father the young man's interest quickened.

"I must have been only about six years old when he died. I find so few
people who remember him well and can tell me about him."

"You are very like him, Lewie. He began nearly as well as you; but he
settled down into a quiet life, which was the very thing for which he
was least fitted. I do not know if he had altogether a happy time. He
lost interest in things, and grew shy and rather irritable. He
quarrelled with most of his neighbours, and got into a trick of
magnifying little troubles till he shrank from the slightest
discomfort."

"And my mother?"

"Ah, your mother was different--a cheery, brave woman. While she lived
she kept him in some measure of self-confidence, but you know she died
at your birth, Lewie, and after that he grew morose and retiring. I
speak about these things from the point of view of my profession, and I
fancy it is the special disease which lies in your blood. You have all
been over-cultured and enervated; as I say, you want some of the salt
and iron of life."

The young man's brow was furrowed in a deep frown which in no way broke
the good-humour of his face. They were nearing a cluster of houses, the
last clachan of sorts in the glen, where a kirk steeple in a grove of
trees proclaimed civilization. A shepherd passed them with a couple of
dogs, striding with masterful step towards home and comfort. The cheery
glow of firelight from the windows pleased both men as they were whirled
through the raw weather.

"There, you see," said the Doctor, nodding his head towards the
retreating figure; "there's a man who in his own way knows the secret of
life. Most of his days are spent in dreary, monotonous toil. He is for
ever wrestling with the weather and getting scorched and frozen, and the
result is that the sparse enjoyments of his life are relished with a
rare gusto. He sucks his pipe of an evening with a zest which the man
who lies on his back all day smoking knows nothing about. So, too, the
labourer who hoes turnips for one and sixpence the day. They know the
arduousness of life, which is a lesson we must all learn sooner or
later. You people who have been coddled and petted must learn it, too;
and for you it is harder to learn, but pleasanter in the learning,
because you stand above the bare need of things, and have leisure for
the adornments. We must all be fighters and strugglers, Lewie, and it
is better to wear out than to rust out. It is bad to let choice things
become easily familiar; for, you know, familiarity is apt to beget a
proverbial offspring."

The young man had listened attentively, but suddenly he leaned from the
seat and with a dexterous twitch of his whip curled it round the leg of
a boy of sixteen who stood before a cottage.

"Hullo, Jock," he cried. "When are you coming up to see me? Bring your
brother some day and we'll go and fish the Midburn." The urchin pulled
off a ragged cap and grinned with pleasure.

"That's the boy you pulled out of the Avelin?" asked the Doctor. "I had
heard of that performance. It was a good introduction to your
home-coming."

"It was nothing," said the young man, flushing slightly. "I was
crossing the ford and the stream was up a bit. The boy was fishing,
wading pretty deep, and in turning round to stare at me he slipped and
was carried down. I merely rode my horse out and collared him. There
was no danger."

"And the Black Linn just below," said the Doctor, incredulously. "You
have got the usual modesty of the brave man, Lewie."

"It was a very small thing. My horse knew its business--that was all."
And he flicked nervously with the whip.

A grey house among trees rose on the left with a quaint gateway of
unhewn stone. The dogcart pulled up, and the Doctor scrambled down and
stood shaking the rain from his hat and collar. He watched the young
man till, with a skilful turn, he had entered Etterick gates, and then
with a more meditative face than is usual in a hungry man he went
through the trees to his own dwelling.


CHAPTER II

LADY MANORWATER'S GUESTS

When the afternoon train from the south drew into Gledsmuir station, a
girl who had been devouring the landscape for the last hour with eager
eyes, rose nervously to prepare for exit. To Alice Wishart the country
was a novel one, and the prospect before her an unexplored realm of
guesses. The daughter of a great merchant, she had lived most of her
days in the ugly environs of a city, save for such time as she had spent
at the conventional schools. She had never travelled; the world of men
and things was merely a name to her, and a girlhood, lonely and
brightened chiefly by the companionship of books, had not given her
self-confidence. She had casually met Lady Manorwater at some political
meeting in her father's house, and the elder woman had taken a strong
liking to the quiet, abstracted child. Then came an invitation to
Glenavelin, accepted gladly yet with much fear and searching of heart.
Now, as she looked out on the shining mountain land, she was full of
delight that she was about to dwell in the heart of it. Something of
pride, too, was present, that she was to be the guest of a great lady,
and see something of a life which seemed infinitely remote to her
provincial thoughts. But when her journey drew near its end she was
foolishly nervous, and scanned the platform with anxious eye.

The sight of her hostess reassured her. Lady Manorwater was a small
middle-aged woman, with a thin classical face, large colourless eyes,
and untidy fair hair. She was very plainly dressed, and as she darted
forward to greet the girl with entire frankness and kindness, Alice
forgot her fears and kissed her heartily. A languid young woman was
introduced as Miss Afflint, and in a few minutes the three were in the
Glenavelin carriage with the wide glen opening in front.

"Oh, my dear, I hope you will enjoy your visit. We are quite a small
party, for Jack says Glenavelin is far too small to entertain in. You
are fond of the country, aren't you? And of course the place is very
pretty. There is tennis and golf and fishing; but perhaps you don't
like these things? We are not very well off for neighbours, but we are
large enough in number to be sufficient to ourselves. Don't you think
so, Bertha?" And Lady Manorwater smiled at the third member of the
group.

Miss Afflint, a silent girl, smiled back and said nothing. She had been
engaged in a secret study of Alice's face, and whenever the object of
the study raised her eyes she found a pair of steady blue ones beaming
on her. It was a little disconcerting, and Alice gazed out at the
landscape with a fictitious curiosity.

They passed out of the Gled valley into the narrower strath of Avelin,
and soon, leaving the meadows behind, went deep into the recesses of
woods. At a narrow glen bridged by the road and bright with the spray
of cascades and the fresh green of ferns, Alice cried out in delight,
"Oh, I must come back here some day and sketch it. What a Paradise of a
place!"

"Then you had better ask Lewie's permission." And Lady Manorwater
laughed.

"Who is Lewie?" asked the girl, anticipating some gamekeeper or
shepherd.

"Lewie is my nephew. He lives at Etterick, up at the head of the glen."

Miss Afflint spoke for the first time. "A very good man. You should
know Lewie, Miss Wishart. I'm sure you would like him. He is a great
traveller, you know, and has written a famous book. Lewis Haystoun is
his full name."

"Why, I have read it," cried Alice. "You mean the book about Kashmir.
But I thought the author was an old man."

"Lewie is not very old," said his aunt; "but I haven't seen him for
years, so he may be decrepit by this time. He is coming home soon, he
says, but he never writes. I know two of his friends who pay a Private
Inquiry Office to send them news of him."

Alice laughed and became silent. What merry haphazard people were these
she had fallen among! At home everything was docketed and ordered.
Meals were immovable feasts, the hour for bed and the hour for rising
were more regular than the sun's. Her father was full of proverbs on
the virtue of regularity, and was wont to attribute every vice and
misfortune to its absence. And yet here were men and women who got on
very well without it. She did not wholly like it. The little
doctrinaire in her revolted and she was pleased to be censorious.

"You are a very learned young woman, aren't you?" said Lady Manorwater,
after a short silence. "I have heard wonderful stories about your
learning. Then I hope you will talk to Mr. Stocks, for I am afraid he
is shocked at Bertha's frivolity. He asked her if she was in favour of
the Prisons Regulation Bill, and she was very rude."

"I only said," broke in Miss Afflint, "that owing to my lack of definite
local knowledge I was not in a position to give an answer commensurate
with the gravity of the subject." She spoke in a perfect imitation of
the tone of a pompous man.

"Bertha, I do not approve of you," said Lady Manorwater. "I forbid you
to mimic Mr. Stocks. He is very clever, and very much in earnest over
everything. I don't wonder that a butterfly like you should laugh, but
I hope Miss Wishart will be kind to him."

"I am afraid I am very ignorant," said Alice hastily, "and I am very
useless. I never did any work of any sort in my life, and when I think
of you I am ashamed."

"Oh, my dear child, please don't think me a paragon," cried her hostess
in horror. "I am a creature of vague enthusiasms and I have the sense
to know it. Sometimes I fancy I am a woman of business, and then I take
up half a dozen things till Jack has to interfere to prevent financial
ruin. I dabble in politics and I dabble in philanthropy; I write review
articles which nobody reads, and I make speeches which are a horror to
myself and a misery to my hearers. Only by the possession of a sense of
humour am I saved from insignificance."

To Alice the speech was the breaking of idols. Competence,
responsibility were words she had been taught to revere, and to hear
them light-heartedly disavowed seemed an upturning of the foundation of
things. You will perceive that her education had not included that
valuable art, the appreciation of the flippant.

By this time the carriage was entering the gates of the park, and the
thick wood cleared and revealed long vistas of short hill grass, rising
and falling like moorland, and studded with solitary clumps of firs.
Then a turn in the drive brought them once more into shadow, this time
beneath a heath-clad knoll where beeches and hazels made a pleasant
tangle. All this was new, not three years old; but soon they were in
the ancient part of the policy which had surrounded the old house of
Glenavelin. Here the grass was lusher, the trees antique oaks and
beeches, and grey walls showed the boundary of an old pleasure-ground.
Here in the soft sunlit afternoon sleep hung like a cloud, and the peace
of centuries dwelt in the long avenues and golden pastures. Another
turning and the house came in sight, at first glance a jumble of grey
towers and ivied walls. Wings had been built to the original square
keep, and even now it was not large, a mere moorland dwelling. But the
whitewashed walls, the crow-step gables, and the quaint Scots baronial
turrets gave it a perfection to the eye like a house in a dream. To
Alice, accustomed to the vulgarity of suburban villas with Italian
campaniles, a florid lodge a stone's throw from the house, darkened too
with smoke and tawdry with paint, this old-world dwelling was a patch of
wonderland. Her eyes drank in the beauty of the place--the great blue
backs of hill beyond, the acres of sweet pasture, the primeval woods.

"Is this Glenavelin?" she cried. "Oh, what a place to live in!"

"Yes, it's very pretty, dear." And Lady Manorwater, who possessed half a
dozen houses up and down the land, patted her guest's arm and looked
with pleasure on the flushed girlish face.


Two hours later, Alice, having completed dressing, leaned out of her
bedroom window to drink in the soft air of evening. She had not brought
a maid, and had refused her hostess's offer to lend her her own on the
ground that maids were a superfluity. It was her desire to be a very
practical young person, a scorner of modes and trivialities, and yet she
had taken unusual care with her toilet this evening, and had spent many
minutes before the glass. Looking at herself carefully, a growing
conviction began to be confirmed--that she was really rather pretty.
She had reddish-brown hair and--a rare conjunction--dark eyes and
eyebrows and a delicate colour. As a small girl she had lamented
bitterly the fate that bad not given her the orthodox beauty of the dark
or fair maiden, and in her school days she had passed for plain. Now it
began to dawn on her that she had beauty of a kind--the charm of
strangeness; and her slim strong figure had the grace which a wholesome
life alone can give. She was in high spirits, curious, interested, and
generous. The people amused her, the place was a fairyland and outside
the golden weather lay still and fragrant among the hills.

When she came down to the drawing-room she found the whole party
assembled. A tall man with a brown beard and a slight stoop ceased to
assault the handle of a firescreen and came over to greet her. He had
only come back half an hour ago, he explained, and so had missed her
arrival. The face attracted and soothed her. Abundant kindness lurked
in the humorous brown eyes, and a queer pucker on the brow gave him the
air of a benevolent despot. If this was Lord Manorwater, she had no
further dread of the great ones of the earth. There were four other
men, two of them mild, spectacled people, who had the air of students
and a precise affected mode of talk, and one a boy cousin of whom no one
took the slightest notice. The fourth was a striking figure, a man of
about forty in appearance, tall and a little stout, with a rugged face
which in some way suggested a picture of a prehistoric animal in an old
natural history she had owned. The high cheek-bones, large nose, and
slightly protruding eyes had an unfinished air about them, as if their
owner had escaped prematurely from a mould. A quantity of bushy black
hair--which he wore longer than most men-enhanced the dramatic air of his
appearance. It was a face full of vigour and a kind of strength,
shrewd, a little coarse, and solemn almost to the farcical. He was
introduced in a rush of words by the hostess, but beyond the fact that
it was a monosyllable, Alice did not catch his name.

Lord Manorwater took in Miss Afflint, and Alice fell to the dark man
with the monosyllabic name. He had a way of bowing over his hand which
slightly repelled the girl, who had no taste for elaborate manners. His
first question, too, displeased her. He asked her if she was one of the
Wisharts of some unpronounceable place.

She replied briefly that she did not know. Her grandfathers on both
sides had been farmers.

The gentleman bowed with the smiling unconcern of one to whom pedigree
is a matter of course.

"I have heard often of your father," he said. "He is one of the local
supports of the party to which I have the honour to belong. He
represents one great section of our retainers, our host another. I am
glad to see such friendship between the two." And he smiled elaborately
from Alice to Lord Manorwater.

Alice was uncomfortable. She felt she must be sitting beside some very
great man, and she was tortured by vain efforts to remember the
monosyllable which had stood for his name. She did not like his voice,
and, great man or not, she resented the obvious patronage. He spoke
with a touch of the drawl which is currently supposed to belong only to
the half-educated classes of England.

She turned to the boy who sat on the other side of her. The young
gentleman--his name was Arthur and, apparently, nothing else--was only
too ready to talk. He proceeded to explain, compendiously, his doings of
the past week, to which the girl listened politely. Then anxiety got
the upper hand, and she asked in a whisper, _a propos_ of nothing in
particular, the name of her left-hand neighbour.

"They call him Stocks," said the boy, delighted at the tone of
confidence, and was going on to sketch the character of the gentleman in
question when Alice cut him short.

"Will you take me to fish some day?" she asked.

"Any day," gasped the hilarious Arthur. "I'm ready, and I'll tell you
what, I know the very burn--" and he babbled on happily till he saw that
Miss Wishart had ceased to listen. It was the first time a pretty girl
had shown herself desirous of his company, and he was intoxicated with
the thought.

But Alice felt that she was in some way bound to make the most of Mr.
Stocks, and she set herself heroically to the task. She had never heard
of him, but then she was not well versed in the minutiae of things
political, and he clearly was a politician. Doubtless to her father his
name was a household word. So she spoke to him of Glenavelin and its
beauties.

He asked her if she had seen Royston Castle, the residence of his friend
the Duke of Sanctamund. When he had stayed there he had been much
impressed--

Then she spoke wildly of anything, of books and pictures and
people and politics. She found him well-informed, clever, and dogmatic.
The culminating point was reached when she embarked on a stray remark
concerning certain events then happening in India.

He contradicted her with a lofty politeness.

She quoted a book on Kashmir.

He laughed the authority to scorn. "Lewis Haystoun?" he asked. "What
can he know about such things? A wandering dilettante, the worst type
of the pseudo-culture of our universities. He must see all things
through the spectacles of his upbringing."

Fortunately he spoke in a low voice, but Lord Manorwater caught the
name.

"You are talking about Lewie," he said; and then to the table at large,
"do you know that Lewie is home? I saw him to-day."

Bertha Afflint clapped her hands. "Oh, splendid! When is he coming
over? I shall drive to Etterick to-morrow. No--bother! I can't go
to-morrow, I shall go on Wednesday."

Lady Manorwater opened mild eyes of surprise. "Why didn't the boy
write?" And the young Arthur indulged in sundry exclamations, "Oh,
ripping, I say! What? A clinking good chap, my cousin Lewie!"

"Who is this Lewis the well-beloved?" said Mr. Stocks. "I was talking
about a very different person--Lewis Haystoun, the author of a foolish
book on Kashmir."

"Don't you like it?" said Lord Manorwater, pleasantly. "Well, it's the
same man. He is my nephew, Lewie Haystoun. He lives at Etterick, four
miles up the glen. You will see him over here to-morrow or the day
after."

Mr. Stocks coughed loudly to cover his discomfiture. Alice could not
repress a little smile of triumph, but she was forbearing and for the
rest of dinner exerted herself to appease her adversary, listening to
his talk with an air of deference which he found entrancing.

Meanwhile it was plain that Lord Manorwater was not quite at ease with
his company. Usually a man of brusque and hearty address, he showed his
discomfort by an air of laborious politeness. He was patronized for a
brief minute by Mr. Stocks, who set him right on some matter of
agricultural reform. Happening to be a specialist on the subject and an
enthusiastic farmer from his earliest days, he took the rebuke with
proper meekness. The spectacled people were talking earnestly with his
wife. Arthur was absorbed in his dinner and furtive glances at his
left-hand neighbour. There remained Bertha Afflint, whom he had
hitherto admired with fear. To talk with her was exhausting to frail
mortality, and he had avoided the pleasure except in moments of
boisterous bodily and mental health. Now she was his one resource, and
the unfortunate man, rashly entering into a contest of wit, found
himself badly worsted by her ready tongue. He declared that she was
worse than her mother, at which the unabashed young woman replied that
the superiority of parents was the last retort of the vanquished. He
registered an inward vow that Miss Afflint should be used on the morrow
as a weapon to quell Mr. Stocks.

When Alice escaped to the drawing-room she found Bertha and her sister--a
younger and ruddier copy--busy with the letters which had arrived by the
evening post. Lady Manorwater, who reserved her correspondence for the
late hours, seized upon the girl and carried her off to sit by the great
French windows from which lawn and park sloped down to the moorland
loch. She chattered pleasantly about many things, and then innocently
and abruptly asked her if she had not found her companion at table
amusing.

Alice, unaccustomed to fiction, gave a hesitating "Yes," at which her
hostess looked pleased. "He is very clever, you know," she said, "and
has been very useful to me on many occasions."

Alice asked his occupation.

"Oh, he has done many things. He has been very brave and quite the
maker of his own fortunes. He educated himself, and then I think he
edited some Nonconformist paper. Then he went into politics, and became
a Churchman. Some old man took a liking to him and left him his money,
and that was the condition. "Moreover, on my declining that honour, he
tells me that he will take his answer from you alone."
Still for a few seconds she kept silence.

"Why should I not answer him, papa?" she said at length, and softly.

"It is not for us to choose what he should ask." She paused.
"All his life Dominique Guyon has been helping us; see how he has, even
in these few days, worn himself in our service!"
Her father stared at her, puzzled, not following her thought.

He had expected her to be shocked, affronted; he did not know
that Dominique's passion was an old tale to her; and as little did he
perceive that in her present mood she put herself aside and thought
only of Dominique as in trouble and needing help.

But apparently something in her face reassured him, for he stepped
toward the door.

"You prefer to give him his answer alone?"
She bent her head.

For a while after the door had closed upon the Commandant, Dominique stood
with eyes abased. Then, looking up and meeting the divine compassion
in hers, he fell on his knees and stretched out both hands to
her.

"Is there no hope for me, ma'amzelle?"
She shook her head. Looking down on him through tears, she held
out a hand; he took it between his palms and clung to it, sobbing like
a child.

Terrible, convulsive sobs they were at first, but grew quieter by
degrees, and as the outburst spent itself a deep silence fell upon the
room.

A tear had fallen upon his clasped knuckles. He put his lips to it and,
imprisoning her fingers, kissed them once, reverently.

He was a man again. He stood up, yet not releasing her hand, and looked
her in the face.

"Ma'amzelle, you will leave the Fort? You will let Bateese carry you out
of danger? For me, of course, I stay with the Seigneur."
"No, Dominique.

All New France is dying around us, and I stay with my father to see the
end. Perhaps at the last I shall need you to help me." She smiled
bravely. "You have been trying to persuade my father, I know."
"I have been trying to persuade him, and yet--yet--Oh, I will tell
to you a wickedness in my heart that I could not tell even to
Father Launoy!

There was a moment when I thought to myself that even to have you die here
and to die beside you were better than to let you go. Can you forgive
me such a thought as that?"
"I forgive."

"And will you grant one thing more?"
"What is it, Dominique?"
"A silly favour, ma'amzelle--but why not? The English will be here
soon, maybe in a few hours.

Let me call Bateese, and we three will be children again and go
up to the edge of the forest and watch for our enemies. They will
be real enemies, this time; but even that we may forget, perhaps."

She stood back a pace and laughed--yes, laughed--and gaily, albeit
with dewy eyes. Her hands went up as if she would have clapped them.
"Why, to be sure!" she cried. "Let us fetch Bateese at once!"
They passed out into the sunlight together, and she waited in the
courtyard while Dominique ran upstairs to fetch Bateese. In five
minutes' time the two brothers appeared together, Bateese with his
pockets enormously bulging--whereat Diane laughed again.

"So you have brought the larder, as ever. Bateese was always prudent,
and never relied on the game he killed in hunting.
You remember, Dominique?"
"He was always a poor shot, ma'amzelle," answered Dominique gravely.

"But this is not the larder!"

Bateese began to explain with a queer look at his brother.

"Eh?"
"Never mind explanations! Come along, all three!" cried Dominique, and
led the way. They passed out by the postern unobserved--for the garrison
was assembled in the lunette under the river wall--and hurried toward
the shade of the forest.

How well Diane remembered the old childish make-believe! How many scores
of times had they played it together, these three, in the woods
around Boisveyrac!--when Dominique and Bateese were bold huntsmen, and
she kept house for them, cooking their imaginary spoils of the chase.

"We must have a fire!" she exclaimed, and hurried off to gather sticks.
But when she returned with the lap of her gown well filled, a fire was
already lit and blazing.

"How have you managed it so quickly?"

she asked, and with that her eyes fell on a scrap of ashes. "Where
did you get this? You have been lighting with paper, Bateese--and that
is not playing fair!"
Bateese, very red in the face, stooped in the smoke and crammed another
handful upon the blaze.

"They were papers, ma'amzelle, upon which Dominique and I for a long
time could not agree. But now "--he turned to Dominique--"there is no
longer any quarrel between us. Eh, brother?"
"None, Bateese; none, if you forgive."
"What did I tell you?" cried Bateese triumphantly. "Did I not always tell
you that your heart would be lighter, with this shadow gone?
And there was never any shadow but this; none--none!"
"That is all very well," Diane remonstrated; "but you two have no
business to hide a secret from me to-day, even though it make you happier."

"We have burnt it for a propitiation, ma'amzelle; it no longer exists."
Bateese cast himself on his back at full length in the herbage and
gazed up through the drifting smoke into the tree-tops and sky.

"A-ah!" said he with a long sigh, "how good God has been to me! How beautiful
He has made all my life!" He propped himself on one elbow and continued
with shining eyes: "What things we were going to do, in those days!
What wonders we looked forward to! And all the while we were doing the
most wonderful thing in the world, for we loved one another." He
stretched out a hand and pointed. "There, by the bend, the English
boats will come in sight. Suppose, Dominique, that as they come you
launched out against them, and fought and sank the fleet
single-handed, like the men in the old tales--"
"He would save New France, and live in song," Diane put in.
"Would that not content any man, Bateese?" She threw back her head with
a gesture which Dominique noted; a trick of her childhood, when in
moments of excitement her long hair fell across her eyes and had to
be shaken back.

"Ma'amzelle," he pleaded, "there is yet one favour."
"Can I grant it easily?"
"I hope so; it is that you will let down your hair for us."
Diane blushed, but put up a hand and began to uncoil the tresses.

"Bateese has not answered me," she insisted. "I tell him that a man
who should do such a feat as he named would live in song for ever
and ever."
"But I say to you humbly, ma'amzelle, that though he lived in song for
ever and ever, the true sweetness of his life would be unknown to the
singers; for he found it here under the branches, and, stepping forth to
his great deed, he left the memory for a while, to meet him again and
be his reward in Heaven."
"And I say to you 'no,' and 'no,' and again 'no'!" cried Diane, springing
to her feet--the childish, impetuous Diane of old.

"It is in the great deed that he lives--the deed, and the moment that makes
him everlasting! If Dominique now, or I, as these English came round
the bend--"
She paused, meeting Dominique's eyes. She had not said "or you," and could
not say it. Why? Because Bateese was a cripple.
"Bateese's is a cripple's talk," said their glances one to another,
guiltily, avoiding him.

Dominique's gaze, flinching a little, passed down the splendid coils
of her hair and rested on the grass at her feet. She lifted a tress
on her forefinger and smoothed it against the sunlight.

"There was a war once," said she, "between the Greeks and the
Persians; and the Persians overran the Greeks' country until they
came to a pass in the mountains where a few men could stand against
many.

There three hundred of the Greeks had posted themselves, despising death,
to oppose an army of tens and hundreds of thousands.
The Persian king sent forward a horseman, and he came near and looked
along the pass and saw but a few Greeks combing their hair and
dressing it carefully, as I am dressing mine."
"What happened, ma'amzelle?"
"They died, and live in song for ever and ever!"
She faced them, her cheeks glowing, and lifted a hand as the note
of a sweet-toned bell rose upon the morning air above the voices
of the birds; of the chapel-bell ringing the garrison to Mass.

The two young men scrambled to their feet.

"Come!" said Diane, and they walked back to the Fort together.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE FLAGSTAFF TOWER.

Time pressing, the Commandant had gone straight from the orderly-room
in search of Father Joly.

As a soldier and a good Catholic he desired to be shriven, and as a man
of habit he preferred the old Cure to Father Launoy. To be sure the Cure
was deaf as a post, but on the other hand the Commandant's worst
sins would bear to be shouted.

"There is yet one thing upon my conscience," he wound up. "The fact is,
I feel pretty sure of myself in this business, but I have some difficulty
in trusting God."
It is small wonder that a confession so astonishing had to be repeated
twice, and even when he heard it Father Joly failed to understand.

"But how is it possible to mistrust God?" he asked.

"Well, I don't know. I suppose that even in bringing New France so near
to destruction He is acting in loving mercy; but all the same it
will be a wrench to me if these English pass without paying us the
honour of a siege.

For if we cannot force them to a fight, Montreal is lost." The
Commandant believed this absolutely.

Father Joly was Canadian born and bred; had received his education
in the Seminary of Quebec; and knowing nothing of the world beyond New
France, felt no doubt upon which side God was fighting.

If it were really necessary to New France that the English should
be delayed-- and he would take the Commandant's word for it--why
then delayed they would be.

This he felt able to promise. "And I in my heart of hearts am sure
of it," said the Commandant. "But in war one has to take account of
every chance, and this may pass sometimes for want of faith."
So, like an honest gentleman, he took his absolution, and afterwards
went to Mass and spent half an hour with his mind withdrawn from all
worldly care, greatly to his soul's refreshment. But with the ringing
of the sanctus bell a drum began to beat--as it seemed, on the very ridge
of the chapel roof, but really from the leads of the flagstaff tower
high above it. Father Launoy paused in the celebration, but was
ordered by a quiet gesture to proceed.

Even at the close the garrison stood and waited respectfully for their
Commandant to walk out, and followed in decent order to the porch.
Then they broke into a run pell-mell for the walls.

But an hour passed before the first whaleboat with its load of red
uniforms pushed its way into sight through the forest screen.

Then began a spectacle--slow, silent, by little and little overwhelming.
It takes a trained imagination to realise great numbers, and the men
of Fort Amitie were soon stupefied and ceased even to talk. It
seemed to them that the forest would never cease disgorging boats.

"A brave host, my children!

But we will teach them that they handle a wasps' nest."
His men eyed the Commandant in doubt; they could scarcely believe that
he intended to resist, now that the enemy's strength was apparent.
To their minds war meant winning or losing, capturing or being
captured.

To fight an impossible battle, for the mere sake of gaining time for
troops they had never seen, did not enter into their calculations.

So they eyed him, while still the flotilla increased against the far
background and came on--whaleboats, gunboats, bateaux, canoes; and still
in the lessening interval along the waterway the birds sang.
For the British moved, not as once upon Lake George startling the
echoes with drums and military bands, but so quietly that at half a
mile's distance only the faint murmur of splashing oars and creaking
thole-pins reached the ears of the watchers.

The Commandant suddenly lowered his glass and closed it with a
snap, giving thanks to God. For at that distance the leading boats began
heading in for shore.

"Etienne, he intends at least to summon us!"
So it proved. General Amherst was by no means the man to pass and
leave a hostile post in his rear. His detractors indeed accused him of
spending all his time upon forts, either in building or in reducing them.
But he had two very good reasons for pausing before Fort Amitie; he
did not know the strength of its defenders, and he wanted pilots to guide
his boats down the rapids below.

Therefore he landed and sent an officer forward to summon the garrison.

The officer presented himself at the river-gate, and having politely
suffered Sergeant Bedard to blindfold him, was led to the Commandant's
quarters. A good hour passed before he reappeared, the Commandant himself
conducting him; and meantime the garrison amused itself with
wagering on the terms of capitulation.

At the gate the Englishman's bandage was removed. He saluted, and was
saluted, with extreme ceremony. The Commandant watched him out of
earshot, and then, rubbing his hands, turned with a happy smile.

"To your guns, my children!"
They obeyed him, while they wondered. He seemed to take for granted
that they must feel the compliment paid them by a siege in form.

The day was now well advanced, and it seemed at first that the British
meant to let it pass without a demonstration.
Toward nightfall, however, four gunboats descended the river,
anchored and dropped down the current, paying out their hawsers and
feeling their way into range.

But the Fort was ready for them, and opened fire before they could train
their guns; a lucky shot cut the moorings of one clean and close by the
stem; and, the current carrying her inshore, she was hulled twice
as she drifted down-stream.

The other three essayed a few shots without effect in the dusk, warped
back out of range, and waited for daylight to improve their
marksmanship.

And with daylight began one of the strangest of sieges, between
an assailant who knew only that he had to deal with stout walls,
and a defender who dared not attempt even a show of a sortie for
fear of exposing the weakness of his garrison.

The French had ammunition enough to last for a month, and cannon
enough to keep two hundred men busy; and ran from one gun to another,
keeping up pretences but doing little damage in their hurry.

Their lucky opening shots had impressed Amherst, and he was one to cling
to a notion of his enemy's strength.

He solemnly effected a new landing at six hundred yards' distance,
opened his lines across the north-western corner of the fort, kept
his men entrenching for two days and two nights, brought up thirty
guns, and, advancing them within two hundred yards, began at his
leisure to knock holes in the walls.

Meantime, twenty guns, anchored out in the river, played on the broad
face of the fort and swept the Commandant's lunette out of existence.
And with all this prodigious waste of powder but five of the garrison had
fallen, and three of these by the bursting of a single shell.

The defenders understood now that they were fighting for time, and told
each other that when their comedy was played out and the inevitable
moment came, the British General would not show himself fierce in
revenge-- "provided," they would add, "the Seigneur does not try his
patience too far." It was Father Launoy who set this whisper going
from lip to lip, and so artfully that none suspected him for its
author; Father Launoy, who had been wont to excite the patriotism of
the faithful by painting the English as devils in human shape. He was a
brave man; but he held this resistance to be senseless and
did not believe for an instant that Montreal would use the delay
or, using it, would strike with any success.

At first the tremendous uproar of the enemy's artillery and its
shattering effect on the masonry of their fortress, had numbed the
militiamen's nerves; they felt the place tumbling about their ears.
But as the hours passed they discovered that round-shot could be dodged
and that even bursting shells, though effective against stones
and mortar, did surprisingly small damage to life and limb; and with
this discovery they began almost to taste the humour of the
situation.

They fed and rested in bomb-proof chambers which the Commandant and
M.

Etienne had devised in the slope of earth under the _terre-plein_;
and from these they watched and discussed in safety the wreckage
done upon the empty buildings across the courtyard.

One of these caves had at the beginning of the siege been assigned to
Diane; and from the mouth of it, seated with Felicite beside her, she too
watched the demolition; but with far different thoughts.
She knew better than these militiamen her father's obstinacy, and
that his high resolve reached beyond the mere gaining of time.
It seemed to her that God was drawing out the agony; and with the end
before her mind she prayed Him to shorten this cruel interval.

Early on the third morning the British guns had laid open a breach six
feet wide at the north-western angle, close by the foot of the flagstaff
tower; and Amherst, who had sent off a detachment of the Forty-sixth
with a dozen Indian guides to fetch a circuit through the woods
and open a feint attack in the rear of the fort, prepared for a
general assault.

But first he resolved to summon the garrison again.

To carry his message he chose the same officer as before, a Captain
Muspratt of the Forty-fourth Regiment.

Now as yet the cannonade had not slackened, and it chanced that as the
General gave Muspratt his instructions, an artillery sergeant in command
of a battery of mortars on the left, which had been advanced within two
hundred yards of the walls, elevated one of his pieces and lobbed
a bomb clean over the summit of the flagstaff tower.

It was a fancy shot, fired--as the army learnt afterwards--for a wager;
but its effect staggered all who watched it. The fuse was
quick, and the bomb, mounting on its high curve, exploded in a
direct line between the battery and the flagstaff. One or two men from
the neighbouring guns shouted bravos. The sergeant slapped his thigh
and was turning for congratulations, but suddenly paused, stock-still
and staring upward.

The flagstaff stood, apparently untouched. But what had become of the
flag?

A moment before it had been floating proudly enough, shaking its folds
loose to the light breeze. Now it was gone. Had the explosion blown
it to atoms? Not a shred of it floated away on the wind.

A man on the sergeant's right called out positively that a couple of
seconds after the explosion, and while the smoke was clearing, he
had caught a glimpse of something white--something which looked
like a flag--close by the foot of the staff; and that an arm had
reached up and drawn it down hurriedly.

He would swear to the arm; he had seen it distinctly above the edge
of the battlements.

In his opinion the fort was surrendering, and someone aloft there had
been pulling down the flag as the bomb burst.

The General, occupied for the moment in giving Captain Muspratt his
instructions, had not witnessed the shot. But he turned at the
shout which followed, caught sight of the bare flagstaff, and
ordering his bugler to sound the "Cease firing," sent forward the
captain at once to parley.
With Muspratt went a sergeant of the Forty-sixth and a bugler.
The sergeant carried a white flag. Ascending the slope briskly,
they were met at the gate by M. Etienne.
The sudden disappearance of the flag above the tower had mystified
the garrison no less thoroughly than the British. They knew the
Commandant to be aloft there with Sergeant Bedard, and the most of
the men could only guess, as their enemies had guessed, that he was
giving the signal of surrender.
But this M. Etienne could by no means believe; it belied his brother's
nature as well as his declared resolve. And so, while the English
captain with great politeness stated his terms--which were unconditional
surrender and nothing less--the poor gentleman kept glancing over
his shoulder and answering at random, "Yes, yes," or "Precisely--if
you will allow me," or "Excuse me a moment, until my brother--" In
short, he rambled so that Captain Muspratt could only suppose his
wits unhinged. It was scarce credible that a sane man could receive
such a message inattentively, and yet this old gentleman did not
seem to be listening!
Diane meanwhile stood at the mouth of her shelter with her eyes
lifted, intent upon the tower's summit. She, too had seen the flag
run down with the bursting of the bomb, and she alone had hit in
her mind on the true explanation--that a flying shard had cut clean
through the up-halliard close to the staff, and the flag--heavy
with golden lilies of her own working--had at once dropped of its
own weight. She had caught sight, too, of her father's arm reaching
up to grasp it, and she knew why. The flagstaff had a double set
of halliards.
She waited--waited confidently, since her father was alive up
there.
She marvelled that he had escaped, for the explosion had seemed to
wrap the battlements in one sheet of fire. Nevertheless he was
safe--she had seen him--and she waited for the flag to rise
again.

Minutes passed. She took a step forward from her shelter.
The firing had ceased and the courtyard was curiously still and
empty. Then four of the five militiamen posted to watch the back
of the building came hurrying across towards the gateway.
She understood--her senses being strung for the moment so tensely
that they seemed to relieve her of all trouble of thinking--she
understood that a parley was going forward at the gate and that
these men were hurrying from their posts to hear it."How do you mean?" asked the blunt Alice.

"Well, you see," began Mr. Hoddam awkwardly--absolute honesty was one
of his characteristics--"he was very well off, and he lived with a
sporting set, and he was very exclusive."

"But I thought he was clever--I thought he was rather brilliant?"

"Oh, he was! Indubitably! He got everything he wanted, but then he got
them easily and had a lot of time for other things, whereas most of us
had not a moment to spare. He got the best First of his year and the
St. Chad's Fellowship, but I think he cared far more about winning the
'Varsity Grind. Men who knew him said he was an extremely good fellow,
but he had scores of rich sporting friends, and nobody else ever got to
know him. I have heard him speak often, and his manner gave one the
impression that he was a tremendous swell, you know, and rather
conceited. People used to think him a sort of universal genius who
could do everything. I suppose he was quite the ablest man that had
been there for years, but I should think he would succeed ultimately as
the man of action and not as the scholar."

"You give him a most unlovely character," said the girl.

"I don't mean to. I own to being entirely fascinated by him. But he
was never, I think, really popular. He was supposed to be intolerant of
mediocrity; and also he used to offend quite honest, simple-minded
people by treating their beliefs very cavalierly. I used to compare him
with Raleigh or Henri IV.--the proud, confident man of action."

Alice had pondered over Mr. Hoddam's confessions and was prepared to
receive the visitor with coldness. The vigorous little democrat in her
hated arrogance. Before, if she had asked herself what type on earth
she hated most, she would have decided for the unscrupulous, proud man.
And yet this Lewis must be lovable. That brown face had infinite
attractiveness, and she trusted Lady Manorwater's acuteness and goodness
of heart.

Lord Manorwater had gone off on some matter of business and taken the
younger Miss Afflint with him. As Alice looked round the little
assembly on the lawn, she felt for the first time the insignificance of
the men. The large Mr. Stocks was not at his best in such
surroundings. He was the typical townsman, and bore with him wherever
he went an atmosphere of urban dust and worry. He hungered for
ostentation, he could only talk well when he felt that he impressed his
hearers; Bertha, who was not easily impressed, he shunned like a plague.
The man, reflected the censorious Alice, had no shades or half-tones in
his character; he was all bald, strong, and crude. Now he was talking
to his hostess with the grace of the wise man unbending.

"I shall be pleased indeed to meet your nephew," he said. "I feel sure
that we have many interests in common. Do you say he lives near?"

Lady Manorwater, ever garrulous on family matters, readily enlightened
him. "Etterick is his, and really all the land round here. We simply
live on a patch in the middle of it. The shooting is splendid, and
Lewie is a very keen sportsman. His mother was my husband's sister, and
died when he was born. He is wonderfully unspoiled to have had such a
lonely boyhood."

"How did the family get the land?" he asked. It was a matter which
interested him, for democratic politician though he was, he looked
always forward to the day when he should own a pleasant country
property, and forget the troubles of life in the Nirvana of the
respectable.

"Oh, they've had it for ages. They are a very old family, you know, and
look down upon us as parvenus. They have been everything in their
day--soldiers, statesmen, lawyers; and when we were decent merchants in
Abbeykirk three centuries ago, they were busy making history. When you
go to Etterick you must see the pictures. There is a fine one by
Jameson of the Haystoun who fought with Montrose, and Raeburn painted
most of the Haystouns of his time. They were a very handsome race, at
least the men; the women were too florid and buxom for my taste."

"And this Lewis--is he the only one of the family?"

"The very last, and of course he does his best to make away with himself
by risking his precious life in Hindu Kush or Tibet or somewhere." Her
ladyship was geographically vague.

"What a pity he does not realize his responsibilities!" said the
politician. "He might do so much."

But at the moment it dawned upon the speaker that the skirker of
responsibilities was appearing in person. There strode towards them,
across the lawn, a young man and two dogs.

"How do you do, Aunt Egeria?" he cried, and he caught her small woman's
hand in a hard brown one and smiled on the little lady.

Bertha Afflint had flung her magazine to the winds and caught his
available left hand. "Oh, Lewie, you wretch! how glad we are to see
you again." Meantime the dogs performed a solemn minuet around her
ladyship's knees.

The young man, when he had escaped from the embraces of his friends,
turned to the others. He seemed to recognize two of them, for he shook
hands cordially with the two spectacled people. "Hullo, Hoddam, how are
you? And Imrie! Who would have thought of finding you here?" And he
poured forth a string of kind questions till the two beamed with
pleasure.

Then Alice heard dimly words of introduction: "Miss Wishart, Mr.
Haystoun," and felt herself bowing automatically. She actually felt
nervous. The disreputable fisher of the day before was in ordinary
riding garments of fair respectability. He recognized her at once, but
he, too, seemed to lose for a moment his flow of greetings. His tone
insensibly changed to a conventional politeness, and he asked her some
of the stereotyped questions with which one greets a stranger. She felt
sharply that she was a stranger to whom the courteous young man assumed
more elaborate manners. The freedom of the day before seemed gone. She
consoled herself with the thought that whereas then she had been warm,
flushed, and untidy, she was now very cool and elegant in her prettiest
frock.

Then Mr. Stocks arose and explained that he was delighted to meet Mr.
Lewis Haystoun, that he knew of his reputation, and hoped to have some
pleasant talk on matters dear to the heart of both. At which Lewis
shunned the vacant seat between Bertha and that gentleman, and stretched
himself on the lawn beside Alice's chair. A thrill of pleasure entered
the girl's heart, to her own genuine surprise.

"Are Tam and Jock at peace now?" she asked. "Tam and Jock are never at
peace. Jock is sedate and grave and old for his years, while Tam is
simply a human collie. He has the same endearing manners and
irresponsible mind. I had to fish him out of several rock-pools after
you left."

Alice laughed, and Lady Manorwater said in wonder, "I didn't know you
had met Lewie before, Alice."

"Miss Wishart and I forgathered accidentally at the Midburn yesterday,"
said the man.

"Oh, you went there," cried the aggrieved Arthur, "and you never told
me! Why, it is the best water about here, and yesterday was a
first-rate day. What did you catch, Lewie?"

"Twelve pounds-about four dozen trout."

"Listen to that! And to think that that great hulking chap got all the
sport!" And the boy intercepted his cousin's tea by way of retaliation.

Then Mr. Stocks had his innings, with Lady Manorwater for company, and
Lewis was put through a strict examination on his doings for the past
years.

"What made you choose that outlandish place, my dear?" asked his aunt.

"Oh, partly the chance of a shot at big game, partly a restless interest
in frontier politics which now and then seizes me. But really it was
Wratislaw's choice."

"Do you know Wratislaw?" asked Mr. Stocks abruptly.

"Tommy?--why, surely! My best of friends. He had got his fellowship
some years before I went up, but I often saw him at Oxford, and he has
helped me innumerable times." The young man spoke eagerly, prepared to
extend warm friendship to any acquaintance of his friend's.

"He and I have sometimes crossed swords," said Mr. Stocks pompously.

Lewis nodded, and forbore to ask which had come off the better.

"He is, of course, very able," said Mr. Stocks, making a generous
admission.

His hearer wondered why he should be told of a man's ability when he had
spoken of him as his friend.

"Have you heard much of him lately?" he asked. "We corresponded
regularly when I was abroad, but of course he never would speak about
himself, and I only saw him for a short time last week in London."

The gentleman addressed waved a deprecating hand.

"He has had no popular recognition. Such merits as he has are too aloof
to touch the great popular heart. But we who believe in the people and
work for them have found him a bitter enemy. The idle, academic,
superior person, whatever his gifts, is a serious hindrance to honest
work," said the popular idol.

"I shouldn't call him idle or superior," said Lewis quietly. "I have
seen hard workers, but I have never seen anything like Tommy. He is a
perfect mill-horse, wasting his fine talent on a dreary routine, merely
because he is conscientious and nobody can do it so well."

He always respected honesty, so he forbore to be irritated with this
assured speaker.

But Alice interfered to prevent jarring.

"I read your book, Mr. Haystoun. What a time you must have had! You
say that north of Bardur or some place like that there are two hundred
miles of utterly unknown land till you come to Russian territory. I
should have thought that land important. Why doesn't some one penetrate
it?

"Well, for various causes. It is very high land and the climate is not
mild. Also, there are abundant savage tribes with a particularly
effective crooked kind of knife. And, finally, our Government
discourages British enterprise there, and Russia would do the same as
soon as she found out."

"But what a chance for an adventurer!" said Alice, with a face aglow.

Lewis looked up at the slim figure in the chair above him, and caught
the gleam of dark eyes.

"Well, some day, Miss Wishart--who knows?" he said slowly and
carelessly.

But three people looked at him, Bertha, his aunt, and Mr. Stocks, and
three people saw the same thing. His face had closed up like a steel
trap. It was no longer the kindly, humorous face of the sportsman and
good fellow, but the keen, resolute face of the fighter, the schemer,
the man of daring. The lines about his chin and brow seemed to tighten
and strengthen and steel, while the grey eyes had for a moment a glint
of fire.

Three people never forgot that face. It was a pity that the lady at his
side was prevented from seeing it by her position, for otherwise life
might have gone differently with both. But the things which we call
chance are in the power of the Fateful Goddesses who reserve their right
to juggle with poor humanity.

Alice only heard the words, but they pleased her. Mr. Stocks fell
farther into the background of disfavour. She had imagination and fire
as well as common sense. It was the purple and fine gold which first
caught her fancy, though on reflection she might decide for the
hodden-grey. So she was very gracious to the young adventurer. And
Arthur's brows grew dark as Erebus.


Lewis rode home in the late afternoon to Etterick in a haze of golden
weather with an abstracted air and a slack bridle. A small, dainty
figure tripped through the mazes of his thoughts. This man, usually
oblivious of woman's presence, now mooned like any schoolboy. Those
fresh young eyes and the glory of that hair! And to think that once he
had sworn by black!


CHAPTER V

A CONFERENCE OP THE POWERS


It was the sultriest of weather in London--days when the city lay in a
fog of heat, when the paving cracked, and the brow was damp from the
slightest movement and the mind of the stranger was tortured by the
thought of airy downs and running rivers. The leaves in the Green Park
were withered and dusty, the window-boxes in Mayfair had a tarnished
look, and horse and man moved with unwilling languor. A tall young man
in a grey frockcoat searched the street for shadow, and finding none
entered the doorway of a club which promised coolness.

Mr. George Winterham removed his top-hat, had a good wash, and then
sought the smoking room. Seen to better advantage, he was sufficiently
good-looking, with an elegant if somewhat lanky frame, a cheerful
countenance, and a great brown moustache which gave him the air
military. But he was no soldier, being indeed that anomalous creature,
the titular barrister, who shows his profession by rarely entering the
chambers and by an ignorance of law more profound than Necessity's.

He found the shadiest corner of the smoking room and ordered the coolest
drink he could think of. Then he smiled, for he saw advancing to him
across the room another victim of the weather. This was a small, thin
man, with a finely-shaped dark head and the most perfectly-fitting
clothes. He had been deep in a review, but at the sight of the wearied
giant in the corner he had forgotten his interest in the "Entomology of
the Riviera." He looked something of the artist or the man of letters,
but in truth he had no taint of Bohemianism about him, being a very
respectable person and a rising politician. His name was Arthur
Mordaunt, but because it was the fashion at the time for a certain class
of people to address each other in monosyllables, his friends invariably
knew him as "John."

He dropped into a chair and regarded his companion with half-closed
eyes.

"Well, John. Dished, eh? Most infernal heat I ever endured! I can't
stand it, you know. I'll have to go away."

"Think," said the other, "think that at this moment somewhere in the
country there are great, cool, deep woods and lakes and waterfalls, and
we might be sitting in flannels instead of being clothed in these
garments of sin."

"Think," said George, "of nothing of the kind. Think of high upland
glens and full brown rivers, and hillsides where there is always wind.
Why do I tantalize myself and talk to a vexatious idiot like you?"

This young man had a deep voice, a most emphatic manner of speech, and a
trick of cheerfully abusing his friends which they rather liked than
otherwise.

"And why should I sit opposite six feet of foolishness which can give me
no comfort? Whew! But I think I am getting cool at last. I have sworn
to make use of my first half-hour of reasonable temperature and
consequent clearness of mind to plan flight from this place."

"May I come with you, my pretty maid? I am hideously sick of July in
town. I know Mabel will never forgive me, but I must risk it."

Mabel was the young man's sister, and the friendship between the two was
a perpetual joke. As a small girl she had been wont to con eagerly her
brother's cricketing achievements, for George had been a famous
cricketer, and annually went crazy with excitement at the Eton and
Harrow match. She exercised a maternal care over him, and he stood in
wholesome fear of her and ordered his doings more or less at her
judgment. Now she was married, but she still supervised her tall
brother, and the victim made no secret of the yoke.

Suddenly Arthur jumped to his feet. "I say, what about Lewis Haystoun?
He is home now, somewhere in Scotland. Have you heard a word about
him?"

"He has never written," groaned George, but he took out a pocket-book
and shook therefrom certain newspaper cuttings. "The people I employ
sent me these about him to-day." And he laid them out on his knee.

The first of them was long, and consisted of a belated review of Mr.
Haystoun's book. George, who never read such things, handed it to
Arthur, who glanced over the lines and returned it. The second
explained in correct journalese that the Manorwater family had returned
to Glenavelin for the summer and autumn, and that Mr. Lewis Haystoun
was expected at Etterick shortly. The third recorded the opening of a
bazaar in the town of Gledsmuir which Mr. Haystoun had patronised,
"looking," said the fatuous cutting, "very brown and distinguished after
his experiences in the East."--"Whew!" said George. "Poor beggar, to
have such stuff written about him!"--The fourth discussed the possible
retirement of Sir Robert Merkland, the member for Gledsmuir, and his
possible successor. Mr. Haystoun's name was mentioned, "though
indeed," said the wiseacre, "that gentleman has never shown any decided
leanings to practical politics. We understand that the seat will be
contested in the Radical interest by Mr. Albert Stocks, the well-known
writer and lecturer."

"You know everybody, John. Who's the fellow?" George asked.

"Oh, a very able man indeed, one of the best speakers we have. I should
like to see a fight between him and Lewie: they would not get on with
each other. This Stocks is a sort of living embodiment of the irritable
Radical conscience, a very good thing in its way, but not quite in
Lewie's style."

The fifth cutting mentioned the presence of Mr. Haystoun at three
garden-parties, and hinted the possibility of a mistress soon to be at
Etterick.

George lay back in his chair gasping. "I never thought it would come to
this. I always thought Lewie the least impressionable of men. I wonder
what sort of woman he has fallen in love with. But it may not be true."

"We'll pray that it isn't true. But I was never quite sure of him. You
know there was always an odd romantic strain in the man. The ordinary
smart, pretty girl, who adorns the end of a dinner-table and makes an
admirable mistress of a house, he would never think twice about. But
for all his sanity Lewie has many cranks, and a woman might get him on
that side."

"Don't talk of it. I can picture the horrid reality. He will marry
some thin-lipped creature who will back him in all his madness, and his
friends will have to bid him a reluctant farewell. Or, worse still,
there are scores of gushing, sentimental girls who might capture him. I
wish old Wratislaw were here to ask him what he thinks, for he knows
Lewie better than any of us. Is he a member here?"

"Oh yes, he is a member, but I don't think he comes much. You people
are too frivolous for him."

"Well, that is all the good done by subscribing to a news-cutting agency
for news of one's friends. I feel as low as ditch water. There is that
idiot who goes off to the ends of the earth for three years, and when he
comes back his friends get no good of him for the confounded women."
George echoed the ancient complaint which is doubtless old as David and
Jonathan.

Then these two desolated young men, in view of their friend's defection,
were full of sad memories, much as relations after a funeral hymn the
acts of the deceased.

George lit a cigar and smoked it savagely. "So that is the end of
Lewis! And to think I knew the fool at school and college and couldn't
make a better job of him than this! Do you remember, John, how we used
to call him 'Vaulting Ambition,' because he won the high jump and was a
cocky beggar in general?"

"And do you remember when he got his First, and they wanted him to stand
for a fellowship, but he was keen to get out of England and travel? Do
you remember that last night at Heston, when he told us all he was going
to do, and took a bet with Wratislaw about it?"

It is probable that this sad elegy would have continued for hours, had
not a servant approached with letters, which he distributed, two to
Arthur Mordaunt and one to Mr. Winterham. A close observer might have
seen that two of the envelopes were identical. Arthur slipped one into
his pocket, but tore open the other and read.

"It's from Lewie," he cried. "He wants me down there next week at
Etterick. He says he is all alone and crazy to see old friends again."

"Mine's the same!" said George, after puzzling out Mr. Haystoun's by no
means legible writing. "I say, John, of course we'll go. It's the very
chance we were wishing for."

Then he added with a cheerful face, "I begin to think better of human
nature. Here were we abusing the poor man as a defaulter, and ten
minutes after he heaps coals of fire on our heads. There can't be much
truth in what that newspaper says, or he wouldn't want his friends down
to spoil sport."

"I wonder what he'll be like? Wratislaw saw him in town, but only for a
little, and he notices nothing. He's rather famous now, you know, and
we may expect to find him very dignified and wise. He'll be able to
teach us most things, and we'll have to listen with proper humility."

"I'll give you fifty to one he's nothing of the kind," said George. "He
has his faults like us all, but they don't run in that line. No, no,
Lewie will be modest enough. He may have the pride of Lucifer at heart,
but he would never show it. His fault is just this infernal modesty,
which makes him shirk fighting some blatant ass or publishing his merits
to the world."

Arthur looked curiously at his companion. Mr. Winterham was loved of
his friends as the best of good fellows, but to the staid and rising
politician he was not a person for serious talk. Hence, when he found
him saying very plainly what had for long been a suspicion of his own,
he was willing to credit him with a new acuteness.

"You know I've always backed Lewie to romp home some day," went on the
young man. "He has got it in him to do most things, if he doesn't jib
and bolt altogether."

"I don't see why you should talk of your friends as if they were
racehorses or prize dogs."

"Well, there's a lot of truth in the metaphor. You know yourself what a
mess of it he might make. Say some good woman got hold of him--some
good woman, for we will put aside the horrible suggestion of the
adventuress. I suppose he'd be what you call a 'good husband.' He would
become a magistrate and a patron of local agricultural societies and
flower shows. And eveybody would talk about him as a great success in
life; but we--you and I and Tommy--who know him better, would feel that
it was all a ghastly failure."

Mr. Lewis Haystoun's character erred in its simplicity, for it was at
the mercy of every friend for comment.

"What makes you dread the women so?" asked Arthur with a smile.

"I don't dread 'em. They are all that's good, and a great deal better
than most men. But then, you know, if you get a man really first-class
he's so much better than all but the very best women that you've got to
look after him. To ordinary beggars like myself it doesn't matter a
straw, but I won't have Lewie throwing himself away."

"Then is the ancient race of the Haystouns to disappear from the earth?"

"Oh, there are women fit for him, sure enough, but you won't find them
at every garden party. Diane, seated in the boat and watching, saw
him halt and point out the escutcheons; saw him halt again in the gateway
and spread out his arms to indicate the solidity of the walls; could
almost, reading his gestures, hear the words they explained; and her
cheeks burned with shame.

"A fine estate!" said a voice in the next boat.

"Yes, indeed," answered Bateese at her elbow; "there is no
Seigniory to compare with Boisveyrac.

And we will live to welcome you back to it, mademoiselle. The English are
no despoilers, they tell me."

She glanced at Dominique. He had filled a pipe, and, as he smoked, his
eyes followed her uncle's gestures placidly. Scorn of him, scorn of
herself, intolerable shame, rose in a flood together.

"If my uncle behaves like a _roturier_, it is because his mind is gone.
Shall _we_ spy on him and laugh?

--ghosts of those who are afraid to die!"
Father Launoy looked up from his breviary.

"Mademoiselle is unjust," said he quietly.

"To my knowledge, those servants of hers, whom she reproaches, have risked
death and taken wounds, in part for her sake."
Diane sat silent, gazing upon the river. Yes, she had been unjust, and
she knew it.

Felicite had told her how the garrison had rushed after Dominique
to rescue her, and of the struggle in the stairway of the tower.
Dominique bore an ugly cut, half-healed yet, reaching from his
right eyebrow across the cheekbone--the gash of an Indian knife.

Bateese could steer with his left hand only; his right he carried in
a sling. And the two men lying at this moment by Father Launoy's
feet had taken their wounds for her sake. Unjust she had been;
bitterly unjust.

How could she explain the secret of her bitterness--that she despised
herself?

Boats were crowding thick around them now, many of them half filled
with water. The crews, while they baled, had each a separate tale
to tell of their latest adventure; each, it seemed, had escaped destruction
by a hair's-breadth. The Cedars had been worse even than the Long
Saut. They laughed and boasted, wringing their clothes.

The nearest flung questions at Dominique, at Bateese. The Cascades,
they understood, were the worst in the whole chain of rapids, always
excepting the La Chine. But the La Chine were not to be attempted;
the army would land above them, at Isle Perrot perhaps, or at the
village near the falls, and cover the last nine or ten miles on
foot.

But what of the Buisson? and of the Roches Fendues?

More than an hour passed in this clamour, and still the boats continued
to crowd around.

The first-comers, having baled, were looking to their accoutrements,
testing the powder in their flasks, repolishing the locks and barrels
of their muskets.

"To be sure La Corne and his militiamen had disappeared, but there
was still room for a skirmish between this and Lake St.

Louis; if he had posted himself on the bank below, he might prove
annoying.

The rapids were bad enough without the addition of being fired upon
during the descent, when a man had work enough to hold tight by the
gunwale and say his prayers. Was the General sending a force down to
clear La Corne out?"
"Diane!"
A crowd of soldiers had gathered on the bank, shutting out all view of the
Seigniory. Diane, turning at the sound of her uncle's voice, saw the
men make way, and caught her breath. He was not alone.
He came through the press triumphantly, dragging by the hand an
Indian--an Indian who hung back from the river's brink with eyes
averted, fastened on the ground--the man whom, of all men, she most
feared to meet.

"Diane, the General has been telling me--this honest fellow--we have
been most remiss--"

M. Etienne panted as he picked his steps down the bank. His face was
glowing.

"--He understands a little French, it seems. I have the General's
permission to give him a seat in our boat. He tells me he is averse
to being thanked, but that is nonsense. I insisted on his coming."
"You have thanked me once already, monsieur," urged John a Cleeve in a
voice as low as he could pitch it.

"But not sufficiently. You hear, Diane?--he speaks French! I was
confused at the time; I did not gather--"
She felt Dominique's eyes upon her.

Was her face so white then?
He must not guess. . . .

She held out her hand, commanding her voice to speak easily, wondering
the while at the sound of it.

"Welcome, my friend. My uncle is right; we have been remiss--"
Her voice trailed off, as her eyes fell on Father Launoy. He was
staring, not at her, but at the Indian; curiously at first, then with
dawning suspicion.

Involuntarily she glanced again towards Dominique. He, too, slowly moved
his gaze from her face and fastened it on the Indian.

He knew. . . . Father Launoy knew. . . . Oh, when would the boats push
off?

They pushed off and fell into their stations at length, amid almost
interminable shouting of orders and cross-shouting, pulling and
backing of oars. She had stolen one look at Bateese. . . . He did not
suspect . . . but, in the other boat, they knew.

Her uncle's voice ran on like a brook. She could not look up, for fear
of meeting her lover's eyes--yes, her lover's! She was reckless now. They
knew. She would deceive herself no longer. She was base--base. He
stood close, and in his presence she was glad-- fiercely, deliciously,
desperately. She, betrayed in all her vows, was glad. The current ran
smoothly. If only, beyond the next ledge, might lie annihilation!

The current ran with an oily smoothness. They were nearing the Roches
Fendues. Dominique's boat led.

A clear voice began to sing, high and loud, in a ringing tenor:

"Malbrouck s'en va-t'en guerre:
Mironton, mironton, mirontaine . . ."

At the first note John a Cleeve, glancing swiftly at Bateese, saw
his body stiffen suddenly with his hand on the tiller; saw his eyes
travel forward, seeking his brother's; saw his face whiten.

Dominique stood erect, gazing back, challenging. Beyond him John
caught a glimpse of Father Launoy looking up from his breviary;
and the priest's face, too, was white and fixed.

Voices in the boats behind began to curse loudly; for "Malbrouck" was
no popular air with the English. But Bateese took up the chant:

"Malbrouck s'en va-t'en guerre-- Ne sais quand reviendra!"
They were swinging past Bout de l'lsle.

Already the keel under foot was gathering way. From Bateese, who stood
with eyes stiffened now and inscrutable, John looked down upon
Diane.

She lifted her face with a wan smile, but she, too, was listening
to the challenge flung back from the leading boat.

"Il reviendra-z a Paques . . ."

He flung one glance over his shoulder, and saw the channel dividing
ahead.

Dominique was leaning over, pressing down the helm to starboard. Over
Dominique's arm Father Launoy stared rigidly.

Father Joly, as if aware of something amiss, had cast out both hands and
was grasping the gunwale.

The boat, sucked into the roar of the rapids, shot down the left
channel--the channel of death.

"Il reviendra-z a Paques, Ou--a la Trinite!"
The voice was lost in the roar of the falls, now drumming loud in John's
ears. He knew nothing of these rapids; but two channels lay ahead and
the choice between them. He leapt across M. Etienne, and hurling Bateese
aside, seized the tiller and thrust it hard over, heading for the
right.

Peering back through the spray as he bent he saw the helmsmen astern
staring--hesitating. They had but a second or two in which to
choose.

He shouted and shouted again--in English. But the tumbling waters
roared high above his shouts.

He reached out and gripping Bateese by the collar, forced the tiller into
his hand. Useless now to look back to try to discover how many boats were
following!

Bateese, with a sob, crept back to the tiller and steered.

Not until the foot of the falls was reached did John know that the
herd had followed him. But forty-six boats had followed Dominique's
fatal lead: and of their crews ninety red-coated corpses tossed with
Dominique's and the two priests' and spun in the eddies beneath the
_Grand Bouilli_.

At dawn next morning the sentries in Montreal caught sight of them drifting
down past the walls, and carried the news. So New France learnt that its
hour was near.

CHAPTER XXVI.

DICK'S JUDGMENT.

Two days later Amherst landed his troops at La Chine, marched them unopposed
to Montreal, and encamped before the city on its western side. Within
the walls M. de Vaudreuil called a council of war.

Resistance was madness. From east, south, west, the French
commanders--Bourlamaque, Bougainville, Roquemaure, Dumas, La Corne--
had all fallen back, deserted by their militias. The provincial army had
melted down to two hundred men; the troops of the line numbered
scarce above two thousand. The city, crowded with non-combatant refugees,
held a bare fortnight's provisions. Its walls, built for
defence against Indians, could not stand against the guns which Amherst
was already dragging up from the river; its streets of wooden houses
awaited only the first shell to set them ablaze.

On the eastern side Murray was moving closer, to encamp for the
siege. To the south the tents of Haviland's army dotted the river shore.
Seventeen thousand British and British-Colonials ringed about all
that remained of New France, ready to end her by stroke of sword
if Vaudreuil would not by stroke of pen.

Next morning Bougainville sought Amherst's tent and presented a bulky
paper containing fifty-five articles of capitulation. Amherst read them
through, and came to the demand that the troops should march out
with arms, cannon, flags, and all the honours of war.

"Inform the Governor," he answered, "that the whole garrison of Montreal,
and all other French troops in Canada, must lay down their arms,
and undertake not to serve again in this war."

Bougainville bore his message, and returned in a little while to remonstrate;
but in vain.
Then Levis tried his hand, sending his quartermaster-general to plead
against terms so humiliating--"terms," he wrote, "to which it will not
be possible for us to subscribe." Amherst replied curtly that the terms
were harsh, and he had made them so intentionally; they marked his
sense of the conduct of the French throughout the war in exciting
their Indian allies to atrocity and murder.

So Fort William Henry was avenged at length, in the humiliation of gallant
men; and human vengeance proved itself, perhaps, neither more nor less
clumsy than usual.

Vaudreuil tried to exact that the English should, on their side, pack
off their Indians. He represented that the townsfolk of Montreal
stood in terror of being massacred.

Again Amherst refused.
"No Frenchman," said he, "surrendering under treaty has ever suffered
outrage from the Indians of our army." This was on the 7th of
September.

Early on the 8th Vaudreuil yielded and signed the capitulation.
Levis, in the name of the army, protested bitterly.

"If the Marquis de Vaudreuil, through political motives, believes
himself obliged to surrender the colony at once, we beg his leave
to withdraw with the troops of the line to Isle Sainte-Helene, to
maintain there, on our own behalf, the honour of the King's arms."

To this, of course, the Governor could not listen.

Before the hour of surrender the French regiments burnt their
flags.

On the southern shore of the St.

Lawrence, in the deepest recess of a small curving bay, the afternoon
sun fell through a screen of bulrushes upon a birch canoe and a naked
man seated in the shallows beside it. In one hand he held out, level
with his head, a lock of hair, dark and long and matted, while the
other sheared at it with a razor. The razor flashed as he turned
it this way and that against the sun. On his shoulders and raised upper
arm a few water-drops glistened, for he had been swimming.

The severed locks fell into the stream that rippled beside him through the
bulrush stems. Some found a channel at once and were swept out of sight,
others were caught against the stems and trailed out upon the
current like queer water-flags.

He laid the razor back in the canoe and, rising cautiously, looked
about for a patch of clear, untroubled water to serve him for a
mirror; but small eddies and cross-currents dimpled the surface everywhere,
and his search was not a success.

Next he fetched forth from the canoe an earthenware pan with lye and
charcoal, mixed a paste, and began to lather his head briskly.

Twice he paused in his lathering. Before his shelter rolled the great
river, almost two miles broad; and clear across that distance, from
Montreal, came the sound of drums beating, bells ringing, men
shouting and cheering.

In the Place d'Armes, over yonder, Amherst was parading his troops
to receive the formal surrender of the Marquis de Vaudreuil. Murray
and Haviland were there, leading their brigades, with Gage and Fraser and
Burton; Carleton and Haldfmand and Howe--Howe of the Heights of
Abraham, brother of him who fell in the woods under Ticonderoga;
the great Johnson of the Mohawk Valley, whom the Iroquois obeyed;
Rogers of the backwoods and his brothers, bravest of the brave;
Schuyler and Lyman: and over against them, drinking the bitterest
cup of their lives, Levis and Bourlamaque and Bougainville, Dumas,
Pouchot, and de la Corne--victors and vanquished, all the surviving
heroes of the five years' struggle face to face in the city square.

_Hi motus animorum atque haec certamina tanta_--the half of North America
was changing hands at this moment, and how a bare two miles' distance
diminished it all!

What child's play it made of the rattling drums! From his shelter John a
Cleeve could see almost the whole of the city's river front--all of
it, indeed, but a furlong or two at its western end; and the clean
atmosphere showed up even the loopholes pierced in the outer walls
of the great Seminary.

Above the old-fashioned square bastions of the citadel a white flag
floated; and that this flag bore a red cross instead of the golden
lilies it had borne yesterday was the one and only sign, not easily
discerned, of a reversal in the fates of two nations.

The steeples and turrets of Montreal, the old windmill, the belfry and
high-pitched roof of Notre Dame de Bonsecours, the massed buildings
of the Seminary and the Hotel Dieu, the spire of the Jesuits,
rose against the green shaggy slopes of the mountain, and over the
mountain the sky paled tranquilly toward evening.

Sky, mountain, forests, mirrored belfry and broad rolling river--a
permanent peace seemed to rest on them all.

Half a mile down-stream, where Haviland's camp began, the men of the
nearest picket were playing chuck-farthing. Duty deprived them of the
spectacle in the Place d'Armes, and thus, as soldiers, they solaced
themselves.

Through the bulrush stems John heard their voices and laughter.

A canoe came drifting down the river, across the opening of the little
creek. A man sat in it with his paddle laid across his knees; and as the
stream bore him past, his eyes scanned the water inshore.
John recognised Bateese at once; but Bateese, after a glance, went by
unheeding. It was no living man he sought.

John finished his lathering at leisure, waded out beyond the rushes and
cast himself forward into deep water.

He swam a few strokes, ducked his head, dived, and swam on again;
turned on his back and floated, staring up into the sky; breasted the
strong current and swam against it, fighting it in sheer
lightness of heart.

Boyhood came back to him with his cleansing, and a boyish memory--of an
hour between sunset and moonrise; of a Devonshire lane, where the harvest
wagons had left wisps of hay dangling from the honeysuckles; of a
triangular patch of turf at the end of the lane, and a whitewashed
Meeting-House with windows open, and through the windows a hymn
pouring forth upon the Sabbath twilight--
"Time, like an ever-rolling stream, Bears all his sons away . . ."

An ever-rolling stream! It would bear him down, and the generals
yonder, victors and vanquished, drums and trumpets, hopes and triumphs
and despair--overwhelming, making equal the greater with the less. But
meanwhile, how good to be alive and a man, to swim and breast it! So
this river, if he fought it, would out-tire him, sweep him away
and roll on unheeding, majestic, careless of life and of time.

But for this moment he commanded it.

Let his new life bring what it might, this hour the river should be his
servant, should prepare and wash him clean, body and soul.
He lifted his head, shaking the water from his eyes, and the very
volume of the lustral flood contented him. He felt the strong current
pressing against his arms, and longed to embrace it all. And again,
tickled by the absurdity of his fancies, he lay on his back and
laughed up at the sky.

He swam to shore, flung himself down, and panted. Across the river,
by the landing-stage beneath the citadel, a band was playing down
Haviland's brigade to its boats; and one of the boats was bringing
a man whom John had great need to meet.

When the sun had dried and warmed him, he dressed at leisure, putting
on a suit complete, with striped shirt, socks, and cowhide boots
purchased from a waterside trader across the river and paid for with
the last of his moneys earned in the wilderness. The boots, though a world
too wide, cramped him painfully; and he walked up and down the bank for
a minute or two, to get accustomed to them, before strolling down to
meet the challenge of the pickets.

They were men of the 17th, and John inquired for their adjutant.
They pointed to the returning boats. The corporal in charge of the
picket, taking note of his clothes, asked if he belonged to Loring's
bateau-men, and John answered that he had come down with them through
the falls.

"A nice mess you made of it up yonder," was the corporal's comment.
"Two days we were on fatigue duty picking up the bodies you sent down to
us, and burying them. Only just now a fellow came along in a canoe--a
half-witted kind of Canadian. Said he was searching for his brother."

"Yes," said John, "I saw him go by. I know the man."
"Hell of a lot of brother he's likely to find. We've tidied up the
whole length of the camp front. But there's corpses yet, a mile or two
below, they say. I sent him down to take his pick."
He put a question or two about the catastrophe. "Scandalous sort of
bungle," he pronounced it, being alike ignorant of the strength of the
rapids, and fain, as an honest soldier of Haviland's army, to take
a discrediting view of anything done by Amherst's.

He waxed very scornful indeed.

"Now _we_ was allowing you didn't find the stream fast enough, by
the way you kept us cooling our heels here."

Perceiving that John was indisposed to quarrel, he went wearily back to
his chuck-farthing.

John sat down and waited, scanning the boats as they drew to shore.
Dick, whom he had left an ensign, was now adjutant of the 17th.
This meant, of course, that he had done creditably and made himself felt.
It meant certain promotion, too; Dick being the very man, as
adjutant, to lick a regiment into shape.

John could not help pondering a little, by contrast, on his own
career, but without any tinge of jealousy or envy.

Dick owed nothing to luck; would honestly earn or justify any favour
that Fortune might grant.

The young adjutant, stepping ashore, swung round on his heel to call
an order to the crowding boats. His voice, albeit John thrilled to
the sound of it, was not the voice he remembered. It had hardened
somehow. And his face, when John caught sight of it in profile, was not
the face of a man on the sunny side of favour. It was manlier, more
resolute perhaps than of old, but it had put on reserve and showed
even some discontent in the set of the chin--a handsome face yet, and
youthful, and full of eager strength; but with a shadow on it (thought
John) that it had not worn in the days when Dick Montgomery took his
young ease in Sion and criticised men and generals.

He was handling the disembarkation well. Clearly, too, his men respected
and liked him. But (thought John again) who could help loving him?
John had not bargained for the rush of tenderness that shook him
as he stood there unperceived, and left him trembling.
For a moment he longed only to escape; and then, mastered by an
impulse, scarce knowing what he did, stepped forward and touched
his cousin's arm.

"Dick!" he said softly.

Montgomery turned, cast a sharp glance at him, and fell back staring.

"_You!_" John saw the lips form the word, but no sound came.
He himself was watching Dick's eyes.

Yes, as incredulity passed, joy kindled in them, and the old
affection.

For once in his life Richard Montgomery fairly broke down.

"Jack!"--he stretched out both hands. "We heard--You were not among
the prisoners--" His voice stammered to a halt: his eyes brimmed.

"Come, and hear all about it. Oh, Dick, Dick, 'tis good to see your face
again!"
They linked arms, and Dick suffered John to lead him back to the
canoe among the rushes.

"My mother . . . ?" asked John, halting there by the brink.

"You haven't heard?" Dick turned his face and stared away across the
river.

"I have heard nothing. . . . Is she dead?"
Dick bent his head gravely. "A year since. . . . Your brother Philip
wrote the news to me. It was sudden: just a failure of the heart,
he said. She had known of the danger for years, but concealed it."

John seated himself on the bank, and gazed out over the river for
a minute or so in silence. "She believed me dead, of course?" he
began, but did not ask how the blow had affected her. Likely enough
Dick would not know. "Is there any more bad news?" he asked at
length.
"None. Your brother is well, and there's another child born.
The a Cleeves are not coming to an end just yet. No more questions,
Jack, until you've told me all about yourself!"
He settled down to listen, and John, propping himself on an elbow,
began his tale.
Twice or thrice during the narrative Dick furrowed his brows in
perplexity. When, however, John came to tell of his second year's
sojourn with the Ojibways, he sat up with a jerk and stared at his
cousin in a blank dismay.
"But, good Lord! You said just now that this fellow--this Menehwehna--had
promised to help you back to the army, as soon as Spring came. Did
he break his word, then?"
"No! he would have kept his word. But I didn't want to return."

"You didn't--want--to return!" Dick repeated the words slowly,
trying to grasp them. "Man alive, were you clean mad? Don't you see
what cards you held? Oh," he groaned, "you're not going on to tell
me that you threw them away--the chance of a life-time!"
"I don't see," answered John simply.
Dick sprang up and paced the bank with his hands clenched, half
lifted. "God! if such a chance had fallen to _me_!IV


The sun set in the thick of the dark hills, and a tired and merry party
scrambled down the burnside to the highway. They had long outstayed
their intention, but care sat lightly there, and Lady Manorwater alone
was vexed by thoughts of a dinner untouched and a respectable household
in confusion. The sweet-scented dusk was soothing to the senses, and
there in the narrow glen, with the wide blue strath and the gleam of the
river below, it was hard to find the link of reality and easy to credit
fairyland. Arthur and Miss Wishart had gone on in front and were now
strayed among boulders. She liked this trim and precise young man,
whose courtesy was so grave and elaborate, while he, being a recluse by
nature but a humanitarian by profession, was half nervous and half
entranced in her cheerful society. They talked of nothing, their hearts
being set on the scramble, and when at last they reached the highway and
the farm where the Glenavelin traps had been put up, they found
themselves a clear ten minutes in advance of the others.

As they sat on the dyke in the soft cool air Alice spoke casually of the
place. "Where is Etterick?" she asked; and a light on a hillside
farther up the glen was pointed out to her.

"It's a very fresh and pleasant place to stay at," said Arthur. "We're
much higher than you are at Glenavelin, and the house is bigger and
older. But we simply camp in a corner of it. You can never get Lewie
to live like other people. He is the best of men, but his tastes are
primeval. He makes us plunge off a verandah into a loch first thing in
the morning, you know, and I shall certainly drown some day, for I am
never more than half awake, and I always seem to go straight to the
bottom. Then he is crazy about long expeditions, and when the Twelfth
comes we shall never be off the hill. He is a long way too active for
these slack modern days."

Lewie, Lewie! It was Lewie everywhere! thought the girl. What could
become of a man who was so hedged about by admirers? He had seemed to
court her presence, and her heart had begun to beat faster of late when
she saw his face. She dared not confess to herself that she was in
love--that she wanted this Lewis to herself, and bated the pretensions of
his friends. Instead she flattered herself with a fiction. Her ground
was the high one of an interest in character. She liked the young man
and was sorry to see him in a way to be spoiled by too much admiration.
And the angel who records our innermost thoughts smiled to himself, if
such grave beings can smile.

Meantime Lewis was delivered bound and captive to the enemy. All down
the burn his companion had been Mr. Stocks, and they had lagged behind
the others. That gentleman had not enjoyed the day; he had been bored
by the landscape and scorched by the sun; also, as the time of contest
approached, he was full of political talk, and he had found no ears to
appreciate it. Now he had seized on Lewis, and the younger man had lent
him polite attention though inwardly full of ravening and bitterness.

"Your friend Mr. Mordaunt has promised to support my candidature. You,
of course, will be in the opposite camp."

Lewis said he did not think so-that he had lost interest in party
politics, and would lie low.

Mr. Stocks bowed in acquiescence.

"And what do you think of my chances?"

Lewis replied that he should think about equal betting. "You see the
place is Radical in the main, with the mills at Gledfoot and the weavers
at Gledsmuir. Up in Glenavelin they are more or less Conservative.
Merkland gets in usually by a small majority because he is a local man
and has a good deal of property down the Gled. If two strangers fought
it the Radical would win; as it is it is pretty much of a toss-up either
way."

"But if Sir Robert resigns?"

"Oh, that scare has been raised every time by the other party. I should
say that there's no doubt that the old man will keep on for years."

Mr. Stocks looked relieved. "I heard of his resignation as a
certainty, and I was afraid that a stronger man might take his place."

So it fell out that the day which began with pastoral closed, like many
another day, with politics. Since Lewis refrained from controversy, Mr.
Stocks seemed to look upon him as a Gallio from whom no danger need be
feared, nay, even as a convert to be fostered. He became confident and
talked jocularly of the tricks of his trade. Lewis's boredom was
complete by the time they reached the farmhouse and found the Glenavelin
party ready to start.

"We want to see Etterick, so we shall come to lunch to-morrow, Lewie,"
said his aunt. "So be prepared, my dear, and be on your best
behaviour."

Then, with his two friends, he turned towards the lights of his home.


CHAPTER VII

THE MAKERS OF EMPIRE

The day before the events just recorded two men had entered the door of
a certain London club and made their way to a remote little smoking-room
on the first floor. It was not a handsome building, nor had it any
particular outlook or position. It was a small, old-fashioned place in
a side street, in style obviously of last century, and the fittings
within were far from magnificent. Yet no club carried more distinction
in its membership. Its hundred possible inmates were the cream of the
higher professions, the chef and the cellar were things to wonder at,
and the man who could write himself a member of the Rota Club had
obtained one of the rare social honours which men confer on one another.
Thither came all manner of people--the distinguished foreigner travelling
incognito, and eager to talk with some Minister unofficially on matters
of import, the diplomat on a secret errand, the traveller home for a
brief season, the soldier, the thinker, the lawyer. It was a catholic
assembly, but exclusive--very. Each man bore the stamp of competence on
his face, and there was no cheap talk of the "well-informed" variety.
When the members spoke seriously they spoke like experts; otherwise they
were apt to joke very much like schoolboys let loose. The Right Hon.
Mr. M---- was not above twitting Lord S---- with gunroom stories, and
suffering in turn good-natured libel.

Of the two men lighting their pipes in the little room one was to the
first glance a remarkable figure. About the middle height, with a
square head and magnificent shoulders, he looked from the back not
unlike some professional strong man. But his face betrayed him, for it
was clearly the face of the intellectual worker, the man of character
and mind. His jaw was massive and broad, saved from hardness only by a
quaintly humorous mouth; he had, too, a pair of very sharp blue eyes
looking from under shaggy eyebrows. His age was scarcely beyond thirty,
but one would have put it ten years later, for there were lines on his
brow and threads of grey in his hair. His companion was slim and, to a
hasty glance, insignificant. He wore a peaked grey beard which
lengthened his long, thin face, and he had a nervous trick of drumming
always with his fingers on whatever piece of furniture was near. But if
you looked closer and marked the high brow, the keen eyes, and the very
resolute mouth, the thought of insignificance disappeared. He looked
not unlike a fighting Yankee colonel who had had a Puritan upbringing,
and the impression was aided by his simplicity in dress. He was, in
fact, a very great man, the Foreign Secretary of the time, formerly
known to fame as Lord Malham, and at the moment, by his father's death,
Lord Beauregard, and, for his sins, an exile to the Upper House. His
companion, whose name was Wratislaw, was a younger Member of Parliament
who was credited with peculiar knowledge and insight on the matters
which formed his lordship's province. They were close friends and
allies of some years' standing, and colloquies between the two in this
very place were not unknown to the club annals.

Lord Beauregard looked at his companion's anxious face. "Do you know
the news?" he said.

"What news?" asked Wratislaw. "That your family position is changed, or
that the dissolution will be a week earlier, or that Marka is busy
again?"

"I mean the last. How did you know? Did you see the telegrams?"

"No, I saw it in the papers."

"Good Heavens!" said the great man. "Let me see the thing," and he
snatched a newspaper cutting from Wratislaw's hand, returning it the
next moment with a laugh. It ran thus: "Telegrams from the Punjab
declare that an expedition, the personnel of which is not yet revealed,
is about to start for the town of Bardur in N. Kashmir, to penetrate the
wastes beyond the frontier. It is rumoured that the expedition has a
semi-official character."

"That's our friend," said Wratislaw, putting the paper into his pocket.

Lord Beauregard wrinkled his brow and stared at the bowl of his pipe.
"I see the motive clearly, but I am hanged if I understand why an
evening paper should print it. Who in this country knows of the
existence of Bardur?"

"Many people since Haystoun's book," said the other.

"I have just glanced at it. Is there anything important in it?"

"Nothing that we did not know before. But things are put in a fresh
light. He covered ground himself of which we had only a second-hand
account."

"And he talks of this Bardur?"

"A good deal. He is an expert in his way on the matter and uncommonly
clever. He kept the best things out of the book, and it would be worth
your while meeting him. Do you happen to know him?"

"No--o," said the great man doubtfully. "Oh, stop a moment. I have
heard my young brother talk of somebody of the same name. Rather a
figure at Oxford, wasn't he?"

Wratislaw nodded. "But to talk of Marka," he add.

"His mission is, of course, official, and he has abundant resources."

"So much I gathered," said Wratislaw. "But his designs?

"He knows the tribes in the North better than any living man, but
without a base at hand he is comparatively harmless. The devil in the
thing is that we do not know how close that base may be. Fifty thousand
men may be massed within fifty miles, and we are in ignorance."

"It is the lack of a secret service," said the other. "Had we that,
there are a hundred young men who would have risked their necks there
and kept us abreast of our enemies. As it is, we have to wait till news
comes by some roundabout channel, while that cheerful being, Marka,
keeps the public easy by news of hypothetical private expeditious."

"And meantime there is that thousand-mile piece of desert of which we
know nothing, and where our friends may be playing pranks as they
please. Well, well, we must wait on developments. It is the last
refuge of the ill-informed. What about the dissolution? You are safe,
I suppose?"

Wratislaw nodded.

"I have been asked my forecast fifty times to-day, and I steadily refuse
to speak. But I may as well give it to you. We shall come back with a
majority of from fifty to eighty, and you, my dear fellow, will not be
forgotten."

"You mean the Under-Secretaryship," said the other. "Well, I don't mind
it."

"I should think not. Why, you will get that chance your friends have
hoped so long for, and then it is only a matter of time till you climb
the last steps. You are a youngish man for a Minister, for all your
elderly manners."

Wratislaw smiled the pleased smile of the man who hears kind words from
one whom he admires. "It won't be a bed of roses, you know. I am very
unpopular, and I have the grace to know it."

The elder man looked on the younger with an air of kindly wisdom. "Your
pride may have a fall, my dear fellow. You are young and confident, I
am old and humble. Some day you will be glad to hope that you are not
without this despised popularity."

Wratislaw looked grave. "God forbid that I should despise it. When it
comes my way I shall think that my work is done, and rest in peace. But
you and I are not the sort of people who can court it with comfort. We
are old sticks and very full of angles, but it would be a pity to rub
them off if the shape were to be spoiled."

Lord Beauregard nodded. "Tell me more about your friend Haystoun."

Wratislaw's face relaxed, and he became communicative.

"He is a Scots laird, rather well off, and, as I have said, uncommonly
clever. He lives at a place called Etterick in the Gled valley."

"I saw Merkland to-day, and he spoke his farewell to politics. The
Whips told me about it yesterday."

"Merkland! But he always raised that scare!"

"He is serious this time. He has sold his town house."

"Then that settles it. Lewis shall stand in his place."

"Good," said the great man. "We want experts. He would strengthen your
feeble hands and confirm your tottering knees, Tommy."

"If he gets in; but he will have a fight for it. Our dear friend Albert
Stocks has been nursing the seat, and the Manorwaters and scores of
Lewie's friends will help him. That young man has a knack of confining
his affections to members of the opposite party."

"What was Merkland's majority? Two-fifty or something like that?"

"There or about. But he was an old and well-liked country laird,
whereas Lewie is a very young gentleman with nothing to his credit
except an Oxford reputation and a book of travels, neither of which will
appeal to the Gledsmuir weavers."

"But he is popular?"

"Where he is known--adored. But his name does not carry confidence to
those who do not know the man, for his family were weak-kneed gentry."

"Yes, I knew his father. Able, but crotchety and impossible! Tommy,
this young man must get the seat, for we cannot afford to throw away a
single chance. You say he knows the place," and he jerked his head to
indicate that East to which his thoughts were ever turning. "Some time
in the next two years there will be the devil's own mess in that happy
land. Then your troubles will begin, my friend, and I can wish nothing
better for you than the support of some man in the Commons who knows
that Bardur is not quite so pastoral as Hampshire. He may relieve you
of some of the popular odium you are courting, and at the worst he can
be sent out."

Wratislaw whistled long and low. "I think not," he said. "He is too
good to throw away. But he must get in, and as there is nothing in the
world for me to do I shall go up to Ettorick tomorrow and talk to him.
He will do as I tell him, and we can put our back into the fight.
Besides, I want to see Stocks again. That man is the joy of my heart!"

"Lucky beggar!" said the Minister. "Oh, go by all means and enjoy
yourself, while I swelter here for another three weeks over meaningless
telegrams enlivened by the idiot diplomatist. Good-bye and good luck,
and bring the young man to a sense of his own value."


CHAPTER VIII

MR. WRATISLAW'S ADVENT

As the three men went home in the dusk they talked of the day. Lewis
had been in a bad humour, but the company of his friends exorcised the
imp of irritation, and he felt only the mellow gloom of the evening and
the sweet scents of the moor. In such weather he had a trick of walking
with his head high and his nostrils wide, sniffing the air like the wild
ass of the desert with which the metaphorical George had erstwhile
compared him. That young man meanwhile was occupied with his own
reflections. His good nature had been victimized, he had been made to
fetch and carry continually, and the result was that he had scarcely
spoken a word to Miss Wishart. His plans thus early foiled, nothing
remained but to draw the more fortunate Arthur, so in a conspirator's
aside he asked him his verdict. But Arthur refused to speak. "She is
pretty and clever," he said, "and excellent company." And with this his
lips were sealed, and his thoughts went off on his own concerns.

Lewis heard and smiled. The sun and wind of the hills beat in his
pulses like wine. To have breathed all day the fragrance of heather and
pines, to have gladdened the eye with an infinite distance and blue
lines of mountain, was with this man to have drunk the cup of
intoxicating youth. The cool gloaming did not chill; rather it was the
high and solemn aftermath of the day's harvesting. The faces of
gracious women seemed blent with the pageant of summer weather; kindly
voices, simple joys--for a moment they seemed to him the major matters in
life. So far it was pleasing fancy, but Alice soon entered to disturb
with the disquieting glory of her hair. The family of the Haystouns had
ever a knack of fine sentiment. Fantastic, unpractical, they were
gluttons for the romantic, the recondite, and the dainty. But now had
come a breath of strong wind which rent the meshes of a philandering
fancy. A very new and strange feeling was beginning to make itself
known. He had come to think of Alice with the hot pained affection
which makes the high mountains of the world sink for the time to a
species of mole-hillock. She danced through his dreams and usurped all
the paths of his ambition. Formerly he had thought of himself--for the
man was given to self-portraiture--as the adventurer, the scorner of the
domestic; now he struggled to regain the old attitude, but he struggled
in vain. The ways were blocked, a slim figure was ever in view, and lo!
when he blotted it from his sight the world was dark and the roads
blind. For a moment he had lost his bearings on the sea of life. As
yet the discomfiture was sweet, his confusion was a joy; and it is the
first trace of weakness which we have seen in the man that he accepted
the unsatisfactory with composure.

At the door of Etterick it became apparent that something was astir.
Wheel-marks were clear in the gravel, and the ancient butler had an air
of ceremony. "Mr. Wratislaw has arrived, sir," he whispered to Lewis,
whereat that young man's face shone.

"When? How? Where is he now?" he cried, and with a word to his
companions he had crossed the hall, raced down a lengthy passage, and
flung open the door of his sanctum. There, sure enough, were the broad
shoulders of Wratislaw bending among the books.

"Lord bless me, Tommy, what extraordinary surprise visit is this? I
thought you would be over your ears in work. We are tremendously
pleased to see you."

The sharp blue eyes had been scanning the other's frank sunburnt face
with an air of affectionate consideration. "I got off somehow or other,
as I had to see you, old man, so I thought I would try this place first.
What a fortressed wilderness you live in! I got out at Gledsmuir after
travelling some dreary miles in a train which stopped at every farm, and
then I had to wait an hour till the solitary dogcart of the inn
returned. Hullo! you've got other visitors" And he stretched out a
massive hand to Arthur and George.

The sight of him had lifted a load from these gentlemen's hearts. The
old watchdog had come; the little terriers might now take holiday. The
task of being Lewis's keeper did not by right belong to them; they were
only amateurs acting in the absence of the properly qualified Wratislaw.
Besides, it had been anxious work, for while each had sworn to himself
aforetime to protect his friend from the wiles of Miss Wishart, both
were now devoted slaves drawn at that young woman's chariot wheel. You
will perceive that it is a delicate matter to wage war with a goddess,
and a task unblest of Heaven.

Supper was brought, and the lamps lit in the cool old room, where,
through the open window, they could still catch the glint of foam on the
stream and the dark gloom of pines on the hill. They fell ravenously on
the meal, for one man had eaten nothing since midday and the others were
fresh from moorland air. Thereafter they pulled armchairs to a window,
and lit the pipes of contentment. Wratislaw stretched his arms on the
sill and looked out into the fragrant darkness.

"Any news, Tommy?" asked his host. "Things seem lively in the East."

"Very, but I am ill-informed. Did you lay no private lines of
communication in your travels?"

"They were too short. I picked up a lot of out-of-the-way hints, but as
I am not a diplomatist I cannot use them. I think I have already made
you a present of most. By the by, I see from the papers that an
official expedition is going north from Bardur. What idiot invented
that?"

Wratislaw pulled his head in and sat back in his chair. "You are sure
you don't happen to know?"

"Sure. But it is just the sort of canard which the gentry on the other
side of the frontier would invent to keep things quiet. Who are the
Englishmen at Bardur now?"

The elder man looked shrewdly at the younger, who was carelessly pulling
a flower to pieces. "There's Logan, whom you know, and Thwaite and
Gribton."

"Good men all, but slow in the uptake. Logan is a jewel. He gave me
the best three days' shooting I ever dreamed of, and he has more stories
in his head than George. But if matters got into a tangle I would
rather not be in his company. Thwaite is a gentlemanlike sort of
fellow, but dull-very, while Gribton is the ordinary shrewd commercial
man, very cautious and rather timid."

"Did you ever happen to hear of a man called Marka? He might call
himself Constantine Marka, or Arthur Marker, or the Baron Mark--whatever
happened to suit him."

Lewis puzzled for a little. "Yes, of course I did. By George! I
should think so. It was a chap of that name who had gone north the week
before I arrived. They said he would never be heard of again. Soon
as the chariot which held her had disappeared upon the other side
of the capitol, I extricated myself from the crowd and returned home.

It was not till the shades of evening had fallen, that the last of
the procession had passed the front of the capitol, and the Emperor
reposed within the walls of his palace.

The evening was devoted to the shows of the theatres.

Seven days succeeding this first day of the triumph have been devoted to
games and shows. I attended them not, but escaping from the tumult and
confusion of the city, passed them in a very different manner--you will
at once conjecture where and with whom.

It was indeed as you suppose in the society of Zenobia, Julia, and
Livia.

What the immediate destination of the Queen was to be I knew not, nor did
any seem to know even so late as the day of the triumph.

It was only known that her treatment was to be lenient. But on
the day after, it became public in the city, that the Emperor had
bestowed upon her his magnificent villa, not far from Hadrian's at
Tibur, and at the close of the first day of the triumph a chariot
of Aurelian in waiting had conveyed her there.

This was to me transporting news, as it will be to you.

On the evening of that day I was at Tibur.

Had I been a son or a brother, the Queen could not have received
me with more emotion.

But I leave it to you to imagine the first moments of our
interview. When our greetings were over, the first thought, at
least the first question, of Zenobia was, concerning you and Gracchus.
All her inquiries, as well as those of Julia, I was happily able to
answer in the most exact manner, out of the fulness of your letter.

When I had finished this agreeable duty, the Queen said,
'Our happiness were complete, as now it can be, could Fausta and Gracchus
be but added to our numbers. I shall hope, in the lapse of days or
months, to entice them away for a season from their melancholy home.
And yet what better can I offer them here?

There they behold their city in ruins; here their Queen. There they
already detect some tokens of reviving life; here they would have before
them but the picture of decay and approaching death.

But these things I ought not to say. Piso, you will be glad to learn the
purposes of Aurelian concerning Palmyra. He has already set apart large
sums for the restoration of its walls and temples; and what is more and
better, he has made Gracchus governor of the city and province,
with liberal promises of treasure to carry into effect whatever
designs he may conceive as most likely to people again the silent
streets, and fill them with the merchants of the East and the West.'

'Aurelian, I am persuaded,' I replied, 'will feel upon him the weight of
the strongest motives to do all that he can to repair the injuries he
has inflicted. Then too, in addition to this, his nature is generous.'

'It is so,' said Julia. 'How happy if he had been less subject to his
passions! The proofs of a generous nature you see here, Piso, every
where around us. This vast and magnificent palace, with its extensive
grounds, has he freely bestowed upon us; and here, as your eye has
already informed you, has he caused to be brought and arranged every
article of use or luxury found in the palace of Palmyra, and capable
of transportation.'

'I could hardly believe,' I said, 'as I approached the great entrance,
and beheld objects so familiar--still more, when I came within the walls
and saw around me all that I had seen in Palmyra, that I was indeed
in the vicinity of Rome, and had not been by some strange power
transported suddenly to Asia.

In the rash violence of Aurelian in Syria, and in this reparation,
both here and there, of the evil he has committed to the farthest
extent possible, you witness a genuine revelation of his character.
Would that principle rather than passion were the governing power
of his life!'

Although I have passed many days at Tibur, yet have I seen but little
of Zenobia. She is silent and solitary. Her thoughts are evidently
never with the present, but far back among the scenes of her former
life. To converse is an effort.

The lines of grief have fixed themselves upon her countenance; her
very form and manner are expressive of a soul bowed and subdued by
misfortune. Her pride seems no longer, as on the day of the triumph,
to bear her up.

It is Zenobia before me, but--like her own beautiful capital--it
is Zenobia in ruins.

That she suffers too from the reproaches of a mind now conscious
of its errors I cannot doubt. She blames Aurelian, but I am persuaded
she blames with no less severity herself. It is, I doubt not, the image
of her desolated country rising before her, that causes her so often
in the midst of discourse with us, or when she has been sitting long
silent, suddenly to start and clasp her hands, and withdraw weeping
to her apartments, or the seclusion of the garden.

'It will be long, very long,' Julia has said to me, 'before Zenobia will
recover from this grief--if indeed she ever do.
Thither Wratislaw ultimately turned, dipping,
browsing, reading a score of lines.

"What a nice taste you have in arrangement!" he cried. "Scott, Tolstoi,
Meredith, an odd volume of a Saga library, an odd volume of the _Corpus
Boreale_, some Irish reprints, Stevenson's poems, Virgil and the
_Pilgrim's Progress_, and a French Gazetteer of Mountains wedged above
them. And then an odd Badminton volume, French _Memoires_, a Dante, a
Homer, and a badly printed German text of Schopenhauer! Three different
copies of Rabelais, a De Thou, a Horace, and-bless my soul!--about
twenty books of fairy tales! Lewie, you must have a mind like a
lumber-room."

"I pillaged books from the big library as I wanted them," said the young
man humbly. "Do you know, Tommy, to talk quite seriously, I get more
erratic every day? Knocking about the world and living alone make me a
queer slave of whims. I am straying too far from the normal. I wish to
goodness you would take me and drive me back to the ways of common
sense."

"Meaning--?

"That I am getting cranky and diffident. I am beginning to get nervous
about people's opinion and sensitive to my own eccentricity. It is a
sad case for a man who never used to care a straw for a soul on earth."

"Lewie, attend to me," said Wratislaw, with mock gravity. "You have not
by any chance been falling in love?"

The accused blushed like a girl, and lied withal like a trooper, to the
delight of the un-Christian George.

"Well, then, my dear fellow, there is hope for you yet. If a man once
gets sentimental, he desires to be normal above all things, for he has a
crazy intuition that it is the normal which women really like, being
themselves but a hair's-breadth from the commonplace. I suppose it is
only another of the immortal errors with which mankind hedges itself
about."

"You think it an error?" said Lewis, with such an air of relief that
George began to laugh and Wratislaw looked comically suspicious.

"Why the tone of joy, Lewie?"

"I wanted your opinion," said the perjured young man. "I thought of
writing a book. But that is not the thing I was talking about. I want
to be normal, aggressively normal, to court the suffrages of Gledsmuir.
Do you know Stocks?"

"Surely."

"An excellent person, but I never heard him utter a word above a child's
capacity. He can talk the most shrieking platitudes as if he had found
at last the one and only truth. And people are impressed."

Wratislaw pulled down his eyebrows and proceeded to defend a Scottish
constituency against the libel of gullibility. But Lewis was not
listening. He did not think of the impression made on the voting
powers, but on one small girl who clamorously impeded all his thoughts.
She was, he knew, an enthusiast for the finer sentiments of life, and of
these Mr. Stocks had long ago claimed a monopoly. He felt bitterly
jealous-the jealousy of the innocent man to whom woman is an
unaccountable creature, whose habits and likings must be curiously
studied. He was dimly conscious of lacking the stage attributes of a
lover. He could not pose as a mirror of all virtues, a fanatic for the
True and the Good. Somehow or other he had acquired an air of
self-seeking egotism, unscrupulousness, which he felt miserably must
make him unlovely in certain eyes. Nor would the contest he was
entering upon improve this fancied reputation of his. He would have to
say hard, unfeeling things against what all the world would applaud as
generous sentiment.

When the others had gone yawning to bed, he returned and sat at the
window for a little, smoking hard and puzzling out the knots which
confronted him. He had a dismal anticipation of failure. Not
defeat--that was a little matter; but an abject show of incompetence.
His feelings pulled him hither and thither. He could not utter moral
platitudes to checkmate his opponent's rhetoric, for, after all, he was
honest; nor could he fill the part of the cold critic of hazy sentiment;
gladly though he would have done it, he feared the reproach in girlish
eyes. This good man was on the horns of a dilemma. Love and habit, a
generous passion and a keen intellect dragged him alternately to their
side, and as a second sign of weakness the unwilling scribe has to
record that his conclusion as he went to bed was to let things drift--to
take his chance.


CHAPTER IX

THE EPISODES OF A DAY

It is painful to record it, but when the Glenavelin party arrived at
noon of the next day it was only to find the house deserted. Lady
Manorwater, accustomed to the vagaries of her nephew, led the guests
over the place and found to her horror that it seemed undwelt in. The
hall was in order, and the tart and rosy lairds of Etterick looked down
from their Raeburn canvases on certain signs of habitation; but the
drawing-rooms were dingy with coverings and all the large rooms were in
the same tidy disarray. Then, wise from experience, she led the way to
Lewis's sanctum, and found there a pretty luncheon-table and every token
of men's presence. Soon the four tenants arrived, hot and breathless,
from the hill, to find Bertha Afflint deep in rods and guns, Miss
Wishart and Lady Manorwater ensconced in the great armchairs, and Mr.
Stocks casting a critic's eye over the unruly bookshelves.

Wratislaw's presence at first cast a certain awe on the assembly. His
name was so painfully familiar, so consistently abused, that it was hard
to refrain from curiosity. Lady Manorwater, an ancient ally, greeted
him effusively, and Alice cast shy glances at this strong man with the
kind smile and awkward manners. The truth is that Wratislaw was acutely
nervous. With Mr. Stocks alone was he at his ease. He shook his hand
heartily, declared himself delighted to meet him again, and looked with
such manifest favour on this opponent that the gentleman was cast into
confusion.

"I must talk shop," cried Lady Manorwater when they were seated at
table. "Lewie, have you heard the news that poor Sir Robert has
retired? What a treasure of a cook you have, sir! The poor man is
going to travel, as his health is bad; he wrote me this morning. Now
who is to take his place? And I wish you'd get me the recipe for this
tomato soup."

Lewis unravelled the tangled skein of his aunt's questions.

"I heard about Merkland last night from Wratislaw. I think, perhaps, I
had better make a confession to everybody. I never intended to bother
with party politics, at least not for a good many years, but some people
want me to stand, so I have agreed. You will have a very weak opponent,
Stocks, so I hope you will pardon my impertinence in trying the thing."

The candidate turned a little pale, but he smiled gallantly.

"I shall be glad to have so distinguished an opponent. But I thought
that yesterday you would never have dreamed of the thing."

"No more I should; but Wratislaw talked to me seriously and I was
persuaded."

Wratislaw tried to look guileless, failed signally, and detected a
sudden unfavourable glance from Mr. Stocks in his direction.

"We must manage everything as pleasantly as possible. You have my aunt
and my uncle and Arthur on your side, while I have George, who doesn't
count in this show, and I hope Wratislaw. I'll give you a three days'
start if you like in lieu of notice." And the young man laughed as if
the matter were the simplest of jokes.

The laugh jarred very seriously on one listener. To Alice the morning
had been full of vexations, for Mr. Stocks had again sought her
company, and wearied her with a new manner of would-be gallantry which
sat ill upon him. She had come to Etterick with a tenderness towards
Lewis which was somewhat dispelled by his newly-disclosed political
aims. It meant that the Glenavelin household, including herself, would
be in a different camp for three dreary weeks, and that Mr. Stocks
would claim more of her society than ever. With feminine inconsistency
she visited her repugnance towards that gentleman on his innocent rival.
But Mr. Lewis Haystoun's light-hearted manner of regarding the business
struck the little Puritan deeper. Politics had always been a thing of
the gravest import in her eyes, bound up with a man's duty and honour
and religion, and lo! here was this Gallio who not only adorned a party
she had been led to regard as reprobate, but treated the whole affair as
a half-jocular business, on which one should not be serious. It was
sheer weakness, her heart cried out, the weakness of the philanderer,
the half-hearted. In her vexation her interest flew in sympathy to Mr.
Stocks, and she viewed him for the occasion with favour.

"You are far too frivolous about it," she cried. "How can you fight if
you are not in earnest, and how can you speak things you only half
believe? I hate to think of men playing at politics." And she had set
her little white teeth, and sat flushed and diffident, a Muse of
Protest.

Lewis flushed in turn. He recognized with pain the fulfilment of his
fears. He saw dismally how during the coming fight he would sink daily
in the estimation of this small critic, while his opponent would as
conspicuously rise. The prospect did not soothe him, and he turned to
Bertha Afflint, who was watching the scene with curious eyes.

"It's very sad, Lewie," she said, "but you'll get no canvassers from
Glenavelin. We have all been pledged to Mr. Stocks for the last week.
Alice is a keen politician, and, I believe, has permanently unsettled
Lord Manorwater's easy-going Liberalism. She believes in action;
whereas, you know, he does not."

"We all believe in action nowadays," said Wratislaw. "I could wish at
times for the revival of 'leisureliness' as a party catch-word."

And then there ensued a passage of light arms between the great man and
Bertha which did not soothe Alice's vexation. She ignored the amiable
George, seeing in him another of the half-hearted, and in a fine heat of
virtue devoted herself to Mr. Stocks. That gentleman had been
melancholy, but the favour of Miss Wishart made him relax his heavy
brows and become communicative. He was flattered by her interest. She
heard his reminiscences with a smile and his judgments with attention.
Soon the whole table talked merrily, and two people alone were aware
that breaches yawned under the unanimity.

Archness was not in Alice's nature, and still less was coquetry. When
Lewis after lunch begged to be allowed to show her his dwelling she did
not blush and simper, she showed no pretty reluctance, no graceful
displeasure. She thanked him, but coldly, and the two climbed the ridge
above the lake, whence the whole glen may be seen winding beneath. It
was still, hot July weather, and the far hills seemed to blink and
shimmer in the haze; but at their feet was always coolness in the blue
depth of the loch, the heath-fringed shores, the dark pines, and the
cold whinstone crags.

"You don't relish the prospect of the next month?" she asked.

He shrugged his shoulders. "After all, it is only a month, and it will
all be over before the shooting begins."

"I cannot understand you," she cried suddenly and impatiently. "People
call you ambitious, and yet you have to be driven by force to the
simplest move in the game, and all the while you are thinking and
talking as if a day's sport were of far greater importance."

"And it really vexes you--Alice?" he said, with penitent eyes.

She drew swiftly away and turned her face, so that the man might not see
the vexation and joy struggling for mastery.

"Of course it is none of my business, but surely it is a pity." And the
little doctrinaire walked with head erect to the edge of the slope and
studied intently the distant hills.

The man was half amused, half pained, but his evil star was in the
ascendant. Had he known it, he would have been plain and natural, for
at no time had the girl ever been so near to him. Instead, he made some
laughing remark, which sounded harshly flippant in her ears. She looked
at him reproachfully; it was cruel to treat her seriousness with scorn;
and then, seeing Lady Manorwater and the others on the lawn below, she
asked him with studied carelessness to take her back. Lewis obeyed
meekly, cursing in his heart his unhappy trick of an easy humour. If
his virtues were to go far to rob him of what he most cared for, it
looked black indeed for the unfortunate young man.

Meantime Wratislaw and Mr. Stocks had drawn together by the attraction
of opposites. A change had come over the latter, and momentarily
eclipsed his dignity. For the man was not without tact, and he felt
that the attitude of high-priest of all the virtues would not suit in
the presence of one whose favourite task it was to laugh his so-called
virtues to scorn. Such, at least to begin with, was his honourable
intention. But the subtle Wratislaw drew him from his retirement and
skilfully elicited his coy principles. It was a cruel performance--a
shameless one, had there been any spectator. The one would lay down a
fine generous line of policy; the other would beg for a fact in
confirmation. The one would haltingly detail some facts; the other
would promptly convince him of their falsity. Eventually the victim
grew angry and a little frightened. The real Mr. Stocks was a man of
business, not above making a deal with an opponent; and for a little the
real Mr. Stocks emerged from his shell.

"You won't speak much in the coming fight, will you? You see, you are
rather heavy metal for a beginner like myself," he said, with commercial
frankness.

"No, my dear Stocks, to set your mind at rest, I won't. Lewis wants to
be knocked about a little, and he wants the fight to brace him. I'll
leave him to fight his own battles, and wish good luck to the better
man. Also, I won't come to your meetings and ask awkward questions."

Mr. Stocks bore malice only to his inferiors, and respected his betters
when he was not on a platform. He thanked Wratislaw with great
heartiness, and when Lady Manorwater found the two they were beaming on
each other like the most ancient friends.

"Has anybody seen Lewie?" she was asking. "He is the most scandalous
host in the world. We can't find boats or canoes and we can't find him.
Oh, here is the truant!" And the renegade host was seen in the wake of
Alice descending from the ridge.

Something in the attitude of the two struck the lady with suspicion.
Was it possible that she had been blind, and that her nephew was about
to confuse her cherished schemes? This innocent woman, who went through
the world as not being of it, had fancied that already Alice had fallen
in with her plans. She had seemed to court Mr. Stocks's company, while
he most certainly sought eagerly for hers. But Lewis, if he entered the
lists, would be a perplexing combatant, and Lady Manorwater called her
gods to witness that it should not be. Many motives decided her against
it. She hated that a scheme of her own once made should be checkmated,
though it were by her dearest friend. More than all, her pride was in
arms. Lewis was a dazzling figure; he should make a great match; money
and pretty looks and parvenu blood were not enough for his high
mightiness.

So it came about that, when they had explored the house, circumnavigated
the loch, and had tea on a lawn of heather, she informed her party that
she must get out at Haystounslacks, for she wished to see the farmer,
and asked Bertha to keep her company. The young woman agreed readily,
with the result that Alice and Mr. Stocks were left sole occupants of
the carriage for the better half of the way. The man was only too
willing to seize the chance thus divinely given him. His irritation at
Lewis's projects had been tempered by Alice's kindness at lunch and
Wratislaw's unlooked-for complaisance. Things looked rosy for him; far
off, as on the horizon of his hopes, he saw a seat in Parliament and a
fair and amply dowered wife.

But Miss Wishart was scarcely in so pleasant a humour. With Lewis she
was undeniably cross, but of Mr. Stocks she was radically intolerant.
A moment of pique might send her to his side, but the position was
unnatural and could not be maintained. Even now Lewis was in her
thoughts. Fragments of his odd romantic speech clove to her memory.
His figure--for he showed to perfection in his own surroundings--was so
comely and gallant, so bright with the glamour of adventurous youth,
that for a moment this prosaic young woman was a convert to the coloured
side of life and had forgotten her austere creed.

Mr. Stocks went about his duty with praise-worthy thoroughness. For
the fiftieth time in a week he detailed to her his prospects. When he
had raised a cloud-built castle of fine hopes, when he had with manly
simplicity repeated his confession of faith, he felt that the crucial
moment had arrived. Now, when she looked down the same avenue of
prospect as himself, he could gracefully ask her to adorn the fair scene
with her presence.

"Alice," he said, and at the sound of her name the girl started from a
reverie in which Lewis was not absent, and looked vacantly in his face.

He took it for maidenly modesty.

"I have wanted to speak to you for long, Alice. We have seen a good
deal of each other lately, and I have come to be very fond of you. I
trust you may have some liking for me, for I want you to promise to be
my wife."

He told his love in regular sentences. Unconsciously he had fallen into
the soft patronizing tone in which aforetime he had shepherded a Sunday
school.

The girl looked at the large sentimental face and laughed. She felt
ashamed of her rudeness even in the act.

He caught her hands, and before she knew his face was close to hers.
"Promise me, dear," he said. "We have everything in common. Your
father will be delighted, and we will work together for the good of the
people. You are not meant to be a casual idler like the people at
Etterick. You and I are working man and woman."

It was her turn to flush in downright earnest. The man's hot face
sickened her. What were these wild words he was speaking? She dimly
caught their purport, heard the mention of Etterick, saw once again
Lewis with his quick, kindly eyes, and turned coldly to the lover.

"It is quite out of the question, Mr. Stocks," she said calmly. "Of
course I am obliged to you for the honour you have done me, but the
thing is impossible."

"Who is it?" he cried, with angry eyes. "Is it Lewis Haystoun?"

The girl looked quickly at him, and he was silent, abashed. Strangely
enough, at that moment she liked him better than ever before. She
forgave him his rudeness and folly, his tactless speech and his comical
face. He was in love with her, he offered her what he most valued, his
political chances and his code of fine sentiments; it was not his blame
if she found both little better than husks.

Her attention flew for a moment to the place she had left, only to
return to a dismal reflection. Was she not, after all, in the same
galley as her rejected suitor? What place had she in the frank
good-fellowship of Etterick, or what part had they in the inheritance of
herself and her kind? Had not Mr. Stocks--now sitting glumly by her
side--spoken the truth? We are only what we are made, and generations
of thrift and seriousness had given her a love for the strenuous and the
unadorned which could never be cast out. Here was a quandary--for at
the same instant there came the voice of the heart defiantly calling her
to the breaking of idols.


CHAPTER X

HOME TRUTHS

I

It is told by a great writer in his generous English that when the
followers of Diabolus were arraigned before the Recorder and Mayor of
regenerate Mansoul, a certain Mr. Haughty carried himself well to the
last. "He declared," says Bunyan, "that he had carried himself bravely,
not considering who was his foe or what was the cause in which he was
engaged. It was enough for him if he fought like a man and came off
victorious." Nevertheless, we are told, he suffered the common doom,
being crucified next day at the place of execution. It is the old fate
of the freelance, the Hal o' the Wynd who fights for his own hand; for
in life's contest the taking of sides is assumed to be a necessity.

Such was Lewis's reflections when he found Wratislaw waiting for him in
the Etterick dogcart when he emerged from a meeting in Gledsmuir. He
had now enjoyed ten days of it, and he was heartily tired. His throat
was sore with much speaking, his mind was barren with thinking on the
unthinkable, and his spirits were dashed with a bitter sense of
futility. He had honestly done his best. So far his conscience was
clear; but as he reviewed the past in detail, his best seemed a very
shoddy compromise. It was comfort to see the rugged face of Wratislaw
again, though his greeting was tempered by mistrust. The great man had
refused to speak for him and left him to fight his own battles;
moreover, he feared the judgment of the old warrior on his conduct of
the fight. He was acutely conscious of the joints in his armour, but he
had hoped to have decently cloaked them from others. When he heard the
first words, "Well, Lewie, my son, you have been making a mess of it,"
his heart sank.

"I am sorry," he said. "But how?"

"How? Why, my dear chap, you have no grip. You have let the thing get
out of hand. I heard your speech to-night. It was excellent, very
clever, a beautiful piece of work, but worse than useless for your
purpose. You forget the sort of man you are fighting. Oh, I have been
following the business carefully, and I felt bound to come down to keep
you in order. To begin with, you have left your own supporters in the
place in a nice state of doubt."

"How?"

"Why, because you have given them nothing to catch hold of. They
expected the ordinary Conservative confession of faith--a rosy sketch of
foreign affairs, and a little gentle Socialism, and the old rhetoric
about Church and State. Instead, they are put off with epigrams and
excellent stories, and a few speculations as to the metaphysical basis
of politics. Believe me, Lewie, it is only the very general liking for
your unworthy self which keeps them from going over in a body to
Stocks." And Wratislaw lit a cigar and puffed furiously.

"Then you would have me deliver the usual insincere platitudes?" said
Lewis dismally.

"I would have you do nothing of the kind. I thought you understood my
point of view. A man like Stocks speaks his platitudes with vehemence
because he believes in them whole-heartedly. You have also your
platitudes to get through with, not because you would stake your soul on
your belief in them, but because they are as near as possible the
inaccurate popular statement of your views, which is all that your
constituents would understand, and you pander to the popular craving
because it is honest enough in itself and is for you the stepping-stone
to worthier work."

Lewis shook his head dismally.

"I haven't the knack of it. I seem to stand beside myself and jeer all
the while. Besides, it would be opposing complete sincerity with a very
shady substitute. That man Stocks is at least an honest fool. I met
him the other day after he had been talking some atrocious nonsense. I
asked him as a joke how he could be such a humbug, and he told me quite
honestly that he believed every word; so, of course, I apologized. He
was attacking you people on your foreign policy, and he pulled out a New
Testament and said, 'What do I read here?' It went down with many
people, but the thing took away my breath."

His companion looked perplexedly at the speaker. "You have had the
wrong kind of education, Lewie. You have always been the spoiled child,
and easily and half-unconsciously you have mastered things which the
self-made man has to struggle towards with a painful conscious effort.
The result is that you are a highly cultured man without any crudeness
or hysteria, while the other people see things in the wrong perspective
and run their heads against walls and make themselves miserable. You
gain a lot, but you miss one thing. You know nothing of the heart of
the crowd. Oh, I don't mean the people about Etterick. They are your
own folk, and the whole air of the place is semi-feudal. But the
weavers and artisans of the towns and the ordinary farm workers--what do
you know of them? Your precious theories are so much wind in their
ears. They want the practical, the blatantly obvious, spiced with a
little emotion. Stocks knows their demands. He began among them, and
at present he is but one remove from them. A garbled quotation from the
Scriptures or an appeal to their domestic affections is the very thing
required. Moreover, the man understands an audience. He can bully it,
you know; put on airs of sham independence to cover his real obeisance;
while you are polite and deferent to hide your very obvious scorn."

"Do you know, Tommy, I'm a coward," Lewis broke in. "I can't face the
people. When I see a crowd of upturned faces, crass, ignorant,
unwholesome many of them, I begin to despair. I cannot begin to explain
things from the beginning; besides, they would not understand me if I
did. I feel I have nothing in common with them. They lead, most of
them, unhealthy indoor lives, their minds are half-baked, and their
bodies half-developed. They have suppressed discussion; I am not
allowed to speak for him. I can only speak to you, people; I rejoice
that I can do so. You heard these infamous judges. Which of them can
hear the truth? Which of them is worthy to listen to an honest man?

Which of them will dare to meet his gaze? But what do I say? They all
know the truth. They carry it in their guilty breasts; it stings
their hearts like a serpent. They tremble in their lair, where doubtless
they are devouring their victim; they tremble because they have heard
the cries of three deluded women.

What was I about to do? I was about to speak in behalf of Urbain Grandier!
But what eloquence could equal that of those unfortunates? What words
could better have shown you his innocence? Heaven has taken up
arms for him in bringing them to repentance and to devotion; Heaven
will finish its work--"
"Vade retro, Satanas," was heard through a high window in the hall.

Fournier stopped for a moment, then said:

"You hear these voices parodying the divine language?

If I mistake not, these instruments of an infernal power are, by this
song, preparing some new spell."
"But," cried those who surrounded him, "what shall we do? What have they
done with him?"

"Remain here; be immovable, be silent," replied the young advocate.
"The inertia of a people is all-powerful; that is its true wisdom,
that its strength. Observe them closely, and in silence; and you
will make them tremble."

"They surely will not dare to appear here again," said the Comte
du Lude.

"I should like to look once more at the tall scoundrel in red," said
Grand-Ferre, who had lost nothing of what had occurred.

"And that good gentleman, the Cure," murmured old Father Guillaume Leroux,
looking at all his indignant parishioners, who were talking together in
a low tone, measuring and counting the archers, ridiculing
their dress, and beginning to point them out to the observation of
the other spectators.

Cinq-Mars, still leaning against the pillar behind which he had first
placed himself, still wrapped in his black cloak, eagerly
watched all that passed, lost not a word of what was said, and filled
his heart with hate and bitterness. Violent desires for slaughter and
revenge, a vague desire to strike, took possession of him, despite
himself; this is the first impression which evil produces on
the soul of a young man. Later, sadness takes the place of fury, then
indifference and scorn, later still, a calculating admiration for
great villains who have been successful; but this is only when, of
the two elements which constitute man, earth triumphs over spirit.

Meanwhile, on the right of the hall near the judges' platform, a group of
women were watching attentively a child about eight years old, who had
taken it into his head to climb up to a cornice by the aid of
his sister Martine, whom we have seen the subject of jest with the
young soldier, Grand-Ferre. The child, having nothing to look at after
the court had left the hall, had climbed to a small window which
admitted a faint light, and which he imagined to contain a swallow's
nest or some other treasure for a boy; but after he was well established
on the cornice, his hands grasping the bars of an old shrine of Jerome,
he wished himself anywhere else, and cried out:

"Oh, sister, sister, lend me your hand to get down!"
"What do you see there?" asked Martine.

"Oh, I dare not tell; but I want to get down," and he began to
cry.

"Stay there, my child; stay there!" said all the women. "Don't be afraid;
tell us all that you see."
"Well, then, they've put the Cure between two great boards that
squeeze his legs, and there are cords round the boards."
"Ah! that is the rack," said one of the townsmen. "Look again, my little
friend, what do you see now?"
The child, more confident, looked again through the window, and
then, withdrawing his head, said:

"I can not see the Cure now, because all the judges stand round him,
and are looking at him, and their great robes prevent me from
seeing. There are also some Capuchins, stooping down to whisper
to him."
Curiosity attracted more people to the boy's perch; every one was silent,
waiting anxiously to catch his words, as if their lives depended on
them.

"I see," he went on, "the executioner driving four little pieces
of wood between the cords, after the Capuchins have blessed the hammer
and nails.
Ah, heavens! Sister, how enraged they seem with him, because he will
not speak. Mother! mother! give me your hand, I want to come down!"

Instead of his mother, the child, upon turning round, saw only men's
faces, looking up at him with a mournful eagerness, and signing him
to go on. He dared not descend, and looked again through the window,
trembling.

"Oh! I see Father Lactantius and Father Barre themselves forcing
in more pieces of wood, which squeeze his legs. Oh, how pale he
is! he seems praying. There, his head falls back, as if he were dying!
Oh, take me away!"
And he fell into the arms of the young Advocate, of M. du Lude, and of
Cinq-Mars, who had come to support him.

"Deus stetit in synagoga deorum: in medio autem Deus dijudicat--" chanted
strong, nasal voices, issuing from the small window, which continued
in full chorus one of the psalms, interrupted by blows of the
hammer--an infernal deed beating time to celestial songs. One might
have supposed himself near a smithy, except that the blows were dull,
and manifested to the ear that the anvil was a man's body.

"Silence!" said Fournier, "He speaks. The chanting and the blows
stop."

A weak voice within said, with difficulty, "Oh, my fathers, mitigate the
rigor of your torments, for you will reduce my soul to despair, and I
might seek to destroy myself!"
At this the fury of the people burst forth like an explosion, echoing
along the vaulted roofs; the men sprang fiercely upon the platform,
thrust aside the surprised and hesitating archers; the unarmed crowd
drove them back, pressed them, almost suffocated them against the walls,
and held them fast, then dashed against the doors which led to the
torture chamber, and, making them shake beneath their blows,
threatened to drive them in; imprecations resounded from a thousand
menacing voices and terrified the judges within.

"They are gone; they have taken him away!"

cried a man who had climbed to the little window.

The multitude at once stopped short, and changing the direction
of their steps, fled from this detestable place and spread rapidly
through the streets, where an extraordinary confusion prevailed.

Night had come on during the long sitting, and the rain was pouring
in torrents. The darkness was terrifying. The cries of women
slipping on the pavement or driven back by the horses of the guards;
the shouts of the furious men; the ceaseless tolling of the bells
which had been keeping time with the strokes of the question; the roll
of distant thunder--all combined to increase the disorder.
[Torture ('Question') was regulated in scrupulous detail by Holy
Mother The Church: The ordinary question was regulated for minor infractions
and used for interrogating women and children. For more serious crimes
the suspect (and sometimes the witnesses) were put to the
extraordinary question by the officiating priests. D.W.]

If the ear was astonished, the eyes were no less so. A few dismal
torches lighted up the corners of the streets; their flickering
gleams showed soldiers, armed and mounted, dashing along,
regardless of the crowd, to assemble in the Place de St. Pierre;
tiles were sometimes thrown at them on their way, but, missing the
distant culprit, fell upon some unoffending neighbor. The confusion
was bewildering, and became still more so, when, hurrying through all the
streets toward the Place de St. Pierre, the people found it barricaded
on all sides, and filled with mounted guards and archers. Carts, fastened
to the posts at each corner, closed each entrance, and sentinels, armed
with arquebuses, were stationed close to the carts.

In the centre of the Place rose a pile composed of enormous beams placed
crosswise upon one another, so as to form a perfect square; these
were covered with a whiter and lighter wood; an enormous stake
arose from the centre of the scaffold. A man clothed in red and
holding a lowered torch stood near this sort of mast, which was visible
from a long distance. A huge chafing-dish, covered on account of
the rain, was at his feet.

At this spectacle, terror inspired everywhere a profound silence; for
an instant nothing was heard but the sound of the rain, which fell
in floods, and of the thunder, which came nearer and nearer.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, accompanied by MM. du Lude and Fournier and all the
more important personages of the town, had sought refuge from the storm
under the peristyle of the church of Ste.-Croix, raised upon twenty
stone steps.

The pile was in front, and from this height they could see the whole
of the square. The centre was entirely clear, large streams of water
alone traversed it; but all the windows of the houses were gradually
lighted up, and showed the heads of the men and women who thronged
them.

The young D'Effiat sorrowfully contemplated this menacing preparation.

Brought up in sentiments of honor, and far removed from the black thoughts
which hatred and ambition arouse in the heart of man, he could not
conceive that such wrong could be done without some powerful and
secret motive.

The audacity of such a condemnation seemed to him so enormous that its
very cruelty began to justify it in his eyes; a secret horror crept into
his soul, the same that silenced the people. He almost forgot the
interest with which the unhappy Urbain had inspired him, in thinking
whether it were not possible that some secret correspondence with
the infernal powers had justly provoked such excessive severity; and the
public revelations of the nuns, and the statement of his respected
tutor, faded from his memory, so powerful is success, even in the
eyes of superior men!

so strongly does force impose upon men, despite the voice of
conscience!

The young traveller was asking himself whether it were not probable
that the torture had forced some monstrous confession from the
accused, when the obscurity which surrounded the church suddenly
ceased.

Its two great doors were thrown open; and by the light of an infinite
number of flambeaux, appeared all the judges and ecclesiastics, surrounded
by guards. Among them was Urbain, supported, or rather carried, by six
men clothed as Black Penitents--for his limbs, bound with bandages
saturated with blood, seemed broken and incapable of supporting him.

It was at most two hours since Cinq-Mars had seen him, and yet he could
hardly recognize the face he had so closely observed at the trial. All
color, all roundness of form had disappeared from it; a livid pallor
covered a skin yellow and shining like ivory; the blood seemed to have
left his veins; all the life that remained within him shone from
his dark eyes, which appeared to have grown twice as large as
before, as he looked languidly around him; his long, chestnut hair
hung loosely down his neck and over a white shirt, which entirely
covered him--or rather a sort of robe with large sleeves, and of a
yellowish tint, with an odor of sulphur about it; a long, thick
cord encircled his neck and fell upon his breast.

He looked like an apparition; but it was the apparition of a
martyr.

Urbain stopped, or, rather, was set down upon the peristyle of the
church; the Capuchin Lactantius placed a lighted torch in his right
hand, and held it there, as he said to him, with his hard
inflexibility:
"Do penance, and ask pardon of God for thy crime of magic."

The unhappy man raised his voice with great difficulty, and with his
eyes to heaven said:

"In the name of the living God, I cite thee, Laubardemont, false
judge, to appear before Him in three years. They have taken away my
confessor, and I have been fain to pour out my sins into the bosom
of God Himself, for my enemies surround me. I call that God of mercy to
witness I never have dealt in magic. I have known no mysteries but those
of the Catholic religion, apostolic and Roman, in which I die; I
have sinned much against myself, but never against God and our
Lord--" 
"Cease!"

cried the Capuchin, affecting to close his mouth ere he could
pronounce the name of the Saviour.

"Obdurate wretch, return to the demon who sent thee!"
He signed to four priests, who, approaching with sprinklers in their
hands, exorcised with holy water the air the magician breathed, the
earth he touched, the wood that was to burn him.

During this ceremony, the judge-Advocate hastily read the decree, dated
the 18th of August, 1639, declaring Urbain Grandier duly attainted
and convicted of the crime of sorcery, witchcraft, and possession,
in the persons of sundry Ursuline nuns of Loudun, and others, laymen,
etc.

The reader, dazzled by a flash of lightning, stopped for an instant,
and, turning to M. de Laubardemont, asked whether, considering the
awful weather, the execution could not be deferred till the next
day.

"The decree," coldly answered Laubardemont, "commands execution
within twenty-four hours.

Fear not the incredulous people; they will soon be convinced."

All the most important persons of the town and many strangers were under
the peristyle, and now advanced, Cinq-Mars among them.

"The magician never has been able to pronounce the name of the
Saviour, and repels his image."

Lactantius at this moment issued from the midst of the Penitents,
with an enormous iron crucifix in his hand, which he seemed to hold
with precaution and respect; he extended it to the lips of the
sufferer, who indeed threw back his head, and collecting all his
strength, made a gesture with his arm, which threw the cross from
the hands of the Capuchin.

"You see," cried the latter, "he has thrown down the cross!"
A murmur arose, the meaning of which was doubtful.

"Profanation!" cried the priests.

The procession moved toward the pile.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, gliding behind a pillar, had eagerly watched all
that passed; he saw with astonishment that the cross, in falling upon the
steps, which were more exposed to the rain than the platform, smoked and
made a noise like molten lead when thrown into water. While the public
attention was elsewhere engaged, he advanced and touched it lightly
with his bare hand, which was immediately scorched. Seized with
indignation, with all the fury of a true heart, he took up the cross
with the folds of his cloak, stepped up to Laubardemont, and, striking
him with it on the forehead, cried:

"Villain, I brand thee with the mark of this red-hot iron!"
The crowd heard these words and rushed forward.

"Arrest this madman!" cried the unworthy magistrate.

He was himself seized by the hands of men who cried, "Justice! justice,
in the name of the King!"
"We are lost!" said Lactantius; "to the pile, to the pile!"
The Penitents dragged Urbain toward the Place, while the judges and
archers reentered the church, struggling with the furious citizens; the
executioner, having no time to tie up the victim, hastened to lay
him on the wood, and to set fire to it. But the rain still fell in
torrents, and each piece of wood had no sooner caught the flame than
it became extinguished. In vain did Lactantius and the other canons
themselves seek to stir up the fire; nothing could overcome the water
which fell from heaven.

Meanwhile, the tumult which had begun in the peristyle of the church
extended throughout the square.

The cry of "Justice!" was repeated and circulated, with the information
of what had been discovered; two barricades were forced, and despite
three volleys of musketry, the archers were gradually driven back toward
the centre of the square. In vain they spurred their horses against the
crowd; it overwhelmed them with its swelling waves.

Half an hour passed in this struggle, the guards still receding toward
the pile, which they concealed as they pressed closer upon it.

"On! on!"

cried a man; "we will deliver him; do not strike the soldiers, but
let them fall back.

See, Heaven will not permit him to die!

The fire is out; now, friend, one effort more! That is well! Throw
down that horse! Forward! On!"
The guard was broken and dispersed on all sides. The crowd rushed
to the pile, but no more light was there: all had disappeared, even
the executioner. They tore up and threw aside the beams; one of them
was still burning, and its light showed under a mass of ashes and
ensanguined mire a blackened hand, preserved from the fire by a large
iron bracelet and chain. A woman had the courage to open it; the fingers
clasped a small ivory cross and an image of St.

Magdalen.

"These are his remains," she said, weeping.

"Say, the relics of a martyr!" exclaimed a citizen, baring his head.
CHAPTER VI 
THE DREAM
Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, amid the excitement which his outbreak had
provoked, felt his left arm seized by a hand as hard as iron, which,
drawing him from the crowd to the foot of the steps, pushed him
behind the wall of the church, and he then saw the dark face of old
Grandchamp, who said to him in a sharp voice:
"Sir, your attack upon thirty musketeers in a wood at Chaumont was
nothing, because we were near you, though you knew it not, and,
moreover, you had to do with men of honor; but here 'tis different.
Your horses and people are at the end of the street; I request you
to mount and leave the town, or to send me back to Madame la
Marechale, for I am responsible for your limbs, which you expose
so freely."
Cinq-Mars was somewhat astonished at this rough mode of having a
service done him, was not sorry to extricate himself thus from the
affair, having had time to reflect how very awkward it might be for
him to be recognized, after striking the head of the judicial
authority, the agent of the very Cardinal who was to present him
to the King. He observed also that around him was assembled a crowd
of the lowest class of people, among whom he blushed to find himself.
He therefore followed his old domestic without argument, and found
the other three servants waiting for him. Despite the rain and wind
he mounted, and was soon upon the highroad with his escort, having
put his horse to a gallop to avoid pursuit.
He had, however, hardly left Loudun when the sandy road, furrowed
by deep ruts completely filled with water, obliged him to slacken
his pace. The rain continued to fall heavily, and his cloak was
almost saturated. He felt a thicker one thrown over his shoulders;
it was his old valet, who had approached him, and thus exhibited
toward him a maternal solicitude.
"Well, Grandchamp," said Cinq-Mars, "now that we are clear of the
riot, tell me how you came to be there when I had ordered you to
remain at the Abbe's."
"Parbleu, Monsieur!" answered the old servant, in a grumbling tone,
"do you suppose that I should obey you any more than I did Monsieur
le Marechal?His own people had forsaken
him for a gross and unlikely substitute, and he had been wrong in his
estimate alike of ally and enemy. Above all came that cruelest
stab--what would Wratislaw think of it? He had disgraced himself in the
eyes of his friend. He who had made a fetish of competence had
manifestly proved wanting; he who had loved to think of himself as the
bold, opportune man, had shown himself formal and hidebound.

As he passed Glenavelin among the trees the thought of Alice was a sharp
pang of regret. He could never more lift his eyes in that young and
radiant presence. He pictured the successful Stocks welcomed by her,
and words of praise for which he would have given his immortal soul,
meted out lavishly to that owl-like being. It was a dismal business,
and ruefully, but half-humorously, he caught at the paradox of his fate.

Through the swiftly failing darkness the inn of Etterick rose before
him, a place a little apart from the village street. A noise of talk
floated from the kitchen and made him halt at the door and dismount.
The place would be full of folk discussing the election, and he would go
in among them and learn the worst opinion which men might have of him.
After all, they were his own people, who had known him in his power as
they now saw him in his weakness. If he had failed he was not wholly
foolish; they knew his few redeeming virtues, and they would be
generous.

The talk stopped short as he entered, and he saw through the tobacco
reek half a dozen lengthy faces wearing the air of solemnity which the
hillman adopts in his pleasures. They were all his own herds and
keepers, save two whom he knew for foresters from Glenavelin. He was
recognized at once, and with a general nervous shuffling they began to
make room for the laird at the table. He cried a hasty greeting to all,
and sat down between a black-bearded giant, whose clothes smelt of
sheep, and a red-haired man from one of the remoter glens. The notion
of the thing pleased him, and he ordered drinks for each with a lavish
carelessness. He asked for a match for his pipe, and the man who gave
it wore a decent melancholy on his face and shook his head with unction.

"This is a bad job, Lewie," he said, using the privileged name of the
ancient servant. "Whae would have ettled sic a calaamity to happen in
your ain countryside? We a' thocht it would be a grand pioy for ye, for
ye would settle down here and hae nae mair foreign stravaigins. And
then this tailor body steps in and spoils a'. It's maist vexaatious."

"It was a good fight, and he beat me fairly; but we'll drop the matter.
I'm sick--tired of politics, Adam. If I had been a better man they
might have made a herd of me, and I should have been happy."

"Wheesht, Lewie," said the man, grinning. "A herd's job is no for the
likes o' you. But there's better wark waiting for ye than poalitics.
It's a beggar's trade after a', and far better left to bagman bodies
like yon Stocks. It's a puir thing for sac proper a man as you."

"But what can I do?" cried Lewis in despair. "I have no profession. I
am useless."

"Useless! Ye are a grand judge o' sheep and nowt, and ye ken a horse
better than ony couper. Ye can ride like a jockey and drive like a
Jehu, and there's no your equal in these parts with a gun or a
fishing-rod. Forbye, I would rather walk ae mile on the hill wi' ye
than twae, for ye gang up a brae-face like a mawkin! God! There's no a
single man's trade that ye're no brawly fitted for. And then ye've a
heap o' book-lear that folk learned ye away about England, though I
cannot speak muckle on that, no being a jidge."

Lewis grinned at the portraiture. "You do me proud. But let's talk
about serious things. You were on sheep when I came in. Get back to
them and give me your mind on Cheviots. The lamb sales promise well."

For twenty minutes the room hummed with technicalities. One man might
support the conversation on alien matters, but on sheep the humblest
found a voice: Lewis watched the ring of faces with a sharp delight.
The election had made him sick of his fellows--fellows who chattered and
wrangled and wallowed in the sentimental. But now every line of these
brown faces, the keen blue eyes, the tawny, tangled beards, and the
inimitable soft-sounding southern speech, seemed an earnest of a real
and strenuous life. He began to find a new savour in existence. The
sense of his flat incompetence left him, and he found himself speaking
heartily and laughing with zest.

"It's as I say," said the herd of the Redswirebead. "I'm getting an
auld man and a verra wise ane, and the graund owercome for the world is
just 'Pay no attention.' Ye'll has heard how the word cam' to be. It
was Jock Linklater o' the Caulds wha was glen notice to quit by the
laird, and a' the countryside was vexed to pairt wi' Jock, for he was a
popular character. But about a year after a friend meets him at
Gledsmuir merkit as crouse as ever. 'Lodsake, Jock, man, I thocht ye
were awa',' says he. 'No,' says Jock, 'no. I'm here as ye see.' 'But
how did ye manage it?' he asked. 'Fine,' says Jock. Up there on the
leads I found your brother lying dead, with a sergeant dead beside him;
and their wounds again will prove to you that they had perished by the
bursting of a shell. But this man alone stood on the hatchway and held
it against a dozen Iroquois, as your niece will testify.
What you suppose yourself to owe him, I won't pretend to say; but I tell
you--and I tell you, General--that cleaner pluck I never saw in
my life."

John, the soldiers pushing him forward, stood out with bent head.

He prayed that there might be no Ojibway interpreter at hand; he knew
of none in the fort but Father Launoy, now busy in the chapel laying
out the Commandant's body.

Of all the spectators there was but one-- the General himself--who had
not known him either as Ensign John a Cleeve or as the wounded sergeant
from Ticonderoga. He had met Captain Muspratt at Albany, and
remembered him well on the march up the Hudson to Lake George. With
Major Etherington he had marched, messed, played at cards, and lived
in close comradeship for months together--only two years ago! It was
not before their eyes that he hung his head, but before the
thought of two eyes that in the chapel yonder were covered by the
hands of a kneeling girl.

M. Etienne stepped forward and took his hand.

"I thank you, my friend--if you can understand my thanks."
Dominique Guyon, returning from the chapel, saw only an Indian stepping
back upon the ranks of the red-coats, who clapped him on the shoulder
for a good fellow; and Dominique paid him no more attention, being occupied
with M. Etienne's next words.

"Nevertheless," said M. Etienne, turning upon Amherst, "my duty to his
Majesty obliges me to insist that I have not capitulated; and your troops,
sir, though they have done me this service, must be at once
withdrawn."
And clearly, by all the rules of war, M. Etienne had the right on his
side. Amherst shrugged his shoulders, frowning and yet forced to
smile--the fix was so entirely absurd.

As discipline went in these North American campaigns, he commanded
a well-disciplined army; but numbers of provincials and bateau-men
had filtered in through the breaches almost unobserved during the
parley, and were now strolling about the fortifications like a crowd
of inquisitive tourists.

He ordered Major Etherington to clear them out, and essayed once
more to reason with the enemy.

"You do not seriously urge me, monsieur, to withdraw my men and renew
the bombardment?"

"That is precisely what I require of you."
"But--good heavens, my dear sir!--look at the state of your walls!" He
waved a hand towards the defences.

"I see them; but _you_, sir, as a gentleman, should have no eyes
for their condition--on this side."

The General arched his eyebrows and glanced from M. Etienne to the
Canadians; he did not for a moment mean to appeal to them, but his glance
said involuntarily, "A pretty madman you have for commander!"

And in fact they were already murmuring.

What nonsense was this of M. Etienne's? The fort had fallen, as any
man with eyes could see.
Their Commandant was dead. They had fought to gain time? Well, they
had succeeded, and won compliments even from their enemy.

Corporal Sans Quartier spoke up. "With all respect, M. le Capitaine, if
we fight again some of us would like to know what we are fighting
for." 
M. Etienne swung round upon him.

"Tais-toi, poltron!"
A murmur answered him; and looking along the line of faces he read
sympathy, respect, even a little shame, but nowhere the response
he sought.One of the men went with
it, but the other got his legs caught between the ropes and the tree and
managed to hang on. The poor beggar was helpless with fright; and he
squealed--great heavens! how he did squeal!"

"And what did ye dae?" asked a breathless audience.

"I went down after him. I had to, for I was his master, and besides, I
was a bit of an athlete then. I cried to him to hang on and not look
down. I clambered down the swaying trunk while my people held the ropes
at the top, and when I got near the man I saw what bad happened.

"He had twisted his ankles in the fall, and though he had got them out
of the ropes, yet they hung loose and quite obviously broken. I got as
near him as I could, and leaned over, and I remember seeing through
below his armpits the blue of the stream six hundred feet down. It made
me rather sick with my job, and when I called him to pull himself up a
bit till I could grip him I thought he was helpless with the same
fright. But it turned out that I had misjudged him. He bad no power in
his arms, simply the dead strength to hang on. I was in a nice fix, for
I could lower myself no farther without slipping into space. Then I
thought of a dodge. I got a good grip of the rope and let my legs
dangle down till they were level with his hands. I told him to try and
change his grip and catch my ankles. He did it, somehow or other, and
by George! the first shock of his weight nearly ended me, for he was a
heavy man. However, I managed to pull myself up a yard or two and then
I could reach down and catch his arms. We both got up somehow or other,
but it took a devilish time, and when they laid us both on the ground
and came round like fools with brandy I thought I should choke and had
scarcely strength to swear at them to get out."

The assembly had listened intently, catching its breath with a sharp
_risp_ as all outdoor folks will do when they hear of an escapade which
strikes their fancy. One man--a stranger--hammered his empty pipe-bowl
on the table in applause.

"Whae was the man, d'ye say?" he asked. "A neeger?"

Lewis laughed. "Not a nigger most certainly, though he had a brown
face."

"And ye risked your life for a black o' some kind? Man, ye must be
awfu' fond o' your fellow men. Wad ye dae the same for the likes o' us?

"Surely. For one of my own folk! But it was really a very small
thing."

"Then I have just ae thing to say," said the brown-bearded man. "I am
what ye cal a Raadical, and yestreen I recorded my vote for yon man
Stocks. He crackit a lot about the rights o' man--as man, and I was wi'
him. But I tell ye that you yoursel' have a better notion o' human
kindness than ony Stocks, and though ye're no o' my party, yet I
herewith propose a vote o' confidence in Maister Lewis Haystoun."

The health was drunk solemnly yet with gusto, and under cover of it
Lewis fled out of doors. His despondency had passed, and a fit of
fierce exhilaration had seized him. Men still swore by his name; he was
still loved by his own folk; small matter to him if a townsman had
defeated him. He was no vain talker, but a doer, a sportsman, an
adventurer. This was his true career. Let others have the applause of
excited indoor folk or dull visionaries; for him a man's path, a man's
work, and a man's commendation.

The moon was up, riding high in a shoreless sea of blue, and in the
still weather the streams called to each other from the mountain sides,
as in some fantastic cosmic harmony. High on the ridge shoulder the
lights of Etterick twinkled starlike amid the fretted veil of trees. A
sense of extraordinary and crazy exhilaration, the recoil from the
constraint of weeks, laid hold on his spirit. He hummed a dozen
fragments of song, and at times would laugh with the pure pleasure of
life. The quixotic, the generous, the hopeless, the successful;
laughter and tears; death and birth; the warm hearth and the open
road--all seemed blent for the moment into one great zest for living.
"I'll to Lochiel and Appin and kneel to them," he was humming aloud,
when suddenly his bridle was caught and a man's hand was at his knee.

"Lewie," cried Wratislaw, "gracious, man! have you been drinking?" And
then seeing the truth, he let go the bridle, put an arm through the
stirrup leathers, and walked by the horse's side. "So that's the way
you take it, old chap? Do you know that you are a discredited and
defeated man? and yet I find you whistling like a boy. I have hopes
for you, Lewie. You have the Buoyant Heart, and with that nothing can
much matter. But, confound it! you are hours late for dinner."


CHAPTER XII

PASTORAL AND TRAGEDY

The news of the election, brought to Glenavelin by a couple of ragged
runners, had a different result from that forecast by Lewis. Alice
heard it with a heart unquickened; and when, an hour after, the flushed,
triumphant Mr. Stocks arrived in person to claim the meed of success,
he was greeted with a painful carelessness. Lady Manorwater had been
loud in her laments for her nephew, but to Mr. Stocks she gave the
honest praise which a warm-hearted woman cannot withhold from the
fighter.

"Our principles have won," she cried. "Now who will call the place a
Tory stronghold? Oh, Mr. Stocks, you have done wonderfully, and I am
very glad. I'm not a bit sorry for Lewis, for he well deserved his
beating."

But with Alice there could be neither pleasure nor its simulation. Her
terrible honesty forbade her the easy path of false congratulations.
She bit her lip till tears filled her eyes. What was this wretched
position into which she had strayed? Lewis was all she had feared, but
he was Lewis, and far more than any bundle of perfections. A hot,
passionate craving for his presence was blinding her to reason. And
this man who had won--this, the fortunate politician--she cared for him
not a straw. A strong dislike began to grow in her heart to the
blameless Mr. Stocks.

Dinner that night was a weary meal to the girl. Lady Manorwater
prattled about the day's events, and Lord Manorwater, hopelessly bored,
ate his food in silence. The lively Bertha had gone to bed with a
headache, and the younger Miss Afflint was the receptacle for the moment
of her hostess's confidences. Alice sat between Mr. Stocks and Arthur,
facing a tall man with a small head and immaculate hair who had ridden
over to dine and sleep. One of the two had the wisdom to see her humour
and keep silent, though the thought plunged him into a sea of ugly
reflections. It would be hard if, now that things were going well with
him, the lady alone should prove obdurate. For in all this politician's
daydreams a dainty figure walked by his side, sat at his table's head,
received his friends, fascinated austere ministers, and filled his pipe
of an evening at home.

Arthur was silent, and to him the lady turned in vain. He treated her
with an elaborate politeness which sat ill on his brusque manners, and
for the most part showed no desire to enliven the prevailing dulness.
But after dinner he carried her off to the gardens on the plea of fresh
air and a fine sunset, and the girl, who liked the boy, went gladly.
Then the reason of his silence was made plain. He dismayed her by
becoming lovesick.

"Tell me your age, Alice," he implored.

"I am twenty at Christmas time," said the girl, amazed at the question.

"And I am seventeen or very nearly that. Men sometimes marry women
older than themselves, and I don't see why I shouldn't. Oh, Alice,
promise that you will marry me. I never met a girl I liked so much, and
I am sure we should be happy."

"I am sure we should," said the girl, laughing. "You silly boy! what
put such nonsense in your head? I am far too old for you, and though I
like you very much, I don't in the least want to marry you." She seemed
to herself to have got out of a sober world into a sort of Mad
Tea-party, where people behaved like pantaloons and spoke in conundrums.

The boy flushed and his eyes grew cross. "Is it somebody else?" he
asked; at which the girl, with a memory of Mr. Stocks, reflected on the
dreadful monotony of men's ways.

A solution flashed upon his brain. "Are you going to marry Lewie
Haystoun?" he cried in a more cheerful voice. After all, Lewis was his
cousin, and a worthy rival.

Alice grew hotly uncomfortable. "I am not going to marry Mr. Lewis
Haystoun, and I am not going to talk to you any more." And she turned
round with a flaming face to the cool depths of the wood.

"Then it is that fellow Stocks. Oh, Lord!" groaned Arthur, irritated
into bad manners. "You can't mean it, Alice. He's not fit to black
your boots."

Some foolish impulse roused the girl to reply. She defended the very
man against whom all the evening she had been unreasonably bitter. "You
have no right to abuse him. He is your people's guest and a very
distinguished man, and you are only a foolish boy."

He paled below his sunburn. Now he believed the truth of the horrid
suspicion which had been fastening on his mind. "But--but," he
stammered, "the chap isn't a gentleman, you know."

The words quickened her vexation. A gentleman! The cant word, the
fetish of this ring of idle aristocrats--she knew the hollowness of the
whole farce. The democrat in her made her walk off with erect head and
bright eyes, leaving a penitent boy behind; while all the time a sick,
longing heart drove her to the edge of tears.


The days dragged slowly for the girl. The brightness had gone out of
the wide, airy landscape, and the warm August days seemed chill. She
hated herself for the wrong impression she had left on the boy Arthur's
mind, but she was too proud to seek to erase it; she could but trust to
his honour for silence. If Lewis heard--the thought was too terrible to
face! He would resign himself to the inevitable; she knew the temper of
the man. Good form was his divinity, and never by word or look would he
attempt to win another man's betrothed. She must see him and learn the
truth: but he came no more to Glenavelin, and Etterick was a far cry for
a girl's fancy. Besides, the Twelfth had come and the noise of guns on
every hill spoke of other interests for the party at Etterick. Lewis
had forgotten his misfortunes, she told herself, and in the easy way of
the half-hearted found in bodily fatigue a drug for a mind but little in
need of it.


One afternoon Lady Manorwater came over the lawn waving a letter. "Do
you want to go and picnic to-morrow, Alice?" she cried. "Lewis is to
be shooting on the moors at the head of the Avelin, and he wants us to
come and lunch at the Pool of Ness. He wants the whole party to come,
particularly Mr. Stocks, and he wants to know if you have forgiven him.
What can the boy mean?"

As the cheerful little lady paused, Alice's heart beat till she feared
betrayal. A sudden fierce pleasure burned in her veins. Did he still
seek her good opinion? Was he, as well as herself, miserable alone?
And then came like a stab the thought that he had joined her with
Stocks. Did he class her with that alien world of prigs and dullards?
She ceased to think, and avoiding her hostess and tea, ran over the
wooden bridge to the slope of hill and climbed up among the red heather.

A month ago she had been heart-whole and young, a simple child. The
same prejudices and generous beliefs had been hers, but held loosely
with a child's comprehension. But now this old world had been awakened
to arms against a dazzling new world of love and pleasure. She was led
captive by emotion, but the cold rook of scruple remained. She had read
of women surrendering all for love, but she felt dismally that this
happy gift had been denied her. Criticism, a fierce, vulgar antagonism,
impervious to sentiment, not to be exorcised by generous impulse--such
was her unlovely inheritance.

As she leaned over a pool of clear brown water in a little burn, where
scented ferns dipped and great rocks of brake and heather shadowed, she
saw her face and figure mirrored in every colour and line. Her
extraordinary prettiness delighted her, and then she laughed at her own
vanity. A lady of the pools, with the dark eyes and red-gold hair of
the north, surely a creature of dawn and the blue sky, and born for no
dreary self-communings. She returned, with her eyes clear and something
like laughter in her heart. To-morrow she should see him, to-morrow!


It was the utter burning silence of midday, when the man who toils loses
the skin of his face, and the man who rests tastes the joys of deep
leisure. The blue, airless sky, the level hilltops, the straight lines
of glen, the treeless horizon of the moors--no sharp ridge or cliff
caught the tired eye, only an even, sleep-lulled harmony. Five very
hungry, thirsty, and wearied men lay in the shadow above the Pool of
Ness, and prayed heaven for luncheon.

Lewis and George, Wratislaw and Arthur Mordaunt were there, and Doctor
Gracey, who loved a day on the hills. The keepers sat farther up the
slope smoking their master's tobacco--sure sign of a well-spent morning.
For the party had been on the moors by eight, and for five burning hours
had tramped the heather. All wore light and airy shooting-clothes save
the doctor, who had merely buckled gaiters over his professional black
trousers. All were burned to a tawny brown, and all lay in different
attitudes of gasping ease. Few things so clearly proclaim a man's past
as his posture when lounging. Arthur and Wratislaw lay, like townsmen,
prone on their faces with limbs rigidly straight. Lewis and George--old
campaigners both--lay a little on the side, arms lying loosely, and
knees a little bent. But one and all gasped, and swore softly at the
weather.

"Turn round, Tommy," said George, glancing up, "or you'll get sunstroke
at the back of the neck. I've had it twice, so I ought to know. You
want to wet your handkerchief and put it below your cap. Why don't you
wear a deer-stalker instead of that hideous jockey thing? Feugh, I am
warm and cross and thirsty. Lewis, I'll give your aunt five minutes,
and then I shall go down and drink that pool dry."

Lewis sat up and watched the narrow ribbon of road which coiled up the
glen to the pool's edge. He only saw some hundreds of yards down it,
but the prospect served to convince him that his erratic aunt was late.

"If my wishes had any effect," said George, "at this moment I should be
having iced champagne." And he cast a longing eye to the hampers.

"You won't get any," said Lewis. "We are not sybarites in this
glen, and our drinks are the drinks of simple folk. Do you
remember Cranstoun? I once went stalking with him, and we had
_pate-de-foie-gras_ for luncheon away up on the side of a rugged
mountain. That sort of thing sets my teeth on edge."

"Honest man!" cried George. "But here are your friends, and you had
better stir yourself and make them welcome."

Five very cool and leisurely beings were coming up the hill-path, for,
having driven to above the village, they had had an easy walk of
scarcely half a mile. Lewis's eye sought out a slight figure behind the
others, a mere gleam of pink and white. As she stepped out from the
path to the heather his eye was quick to seize her exquisite grace.
Other women arrayed themselves in loose and floating raiment, ribbons
and what not; but here was one who knew her daintiness, and made no
effort to cloak it. Trim, cool, and sweet, the coils of bright hair
above the white frock catching the noon sun--surely a lady to pray for
and toil for, one made for no facile wooing or easy conquest.

Lewis advanced to Mr. Stocks as soon as he had welcomed his aunt, and
shook hands cordially. "We seem to have lost sight of each other during
the last few days. I never congratulated you enough, but you probably
understood that my head was full of other things. You fought
splendidly, and I can't say I regret the issue. You will do much better
than I ever could."

Mr. Stocks smiled happily. The wheel of his fortunes was bringing him
very near the top. All the way up he had had Alice for a companion; and
that young woman, happy from a wholly different cause, had been
wonderfully gracious. He felt himself on Mr. Lewis Haystoun's level at
last, and the baffling sense of being on a different plane, which he had
always experienced in his company, was gone, he hoped, for ever. So he
became frank and confidential, forgot the pomp of his talk and his
inevitable principles, and assisted in laying lunch.

Lady Manorwater drove her nephew into a corner.

"Where have you been. Lewis, all these days? If you had been anybody
else, I should have said you were sulking. I must speak to you
seriously. Do you know that Alice has been breaking her heart for you?
I won't have the poor child made miserable, and though I don't in the
least want you to marry her, yet; I cannot have you playing with her."

Lewis had grown suddenly very red.

"I think you are mistaken," he said stiffly. "Miss Wishart does not
care a straw for me. If she is in love with anybody, it is with
Stocks."

"I am much older than you, my dear, and I should know better. I may as
well confess that I hoped it would be Mr. Stocks, but I can't
disbelieve my own eyes. The child becomes wretched whenever she hears
your name."

"You are making me miserably unhappy, because I can't believe a word of
it. I have made a howling fool of myself lately, and I can't be blind
to what she thinks of me."

Lady Manorwater looked pathetic. "Is the great Lewis ashamed of
himself?"

"Not a bit. I would do it again, for it is my nature to, as the hymn
says. I am cut all the wrong way, and my mind is my mind, you know.
But I can't expect Miss Wishart to take that point of view."

His aunt shook a hopeless head. "Your moral nature is warped, my dear.
It has always been the same since you were a very small boy at
Glenavelin, and read the Holy War on the hearthrug. You could never be
made to admire Emmanuel and his captains, but you set your heart on the
reprobates Jolly and Griggish. But get away and look after your guests,
sir."

Lunch came just in time to save five hungry men from an undignified end.
The Glenavelin party looked on with amusement as the ravenous appetites
were satisfied. Mr. Stocks, in a huge good humour, talked discursively
of sport. He inquired concerning the morning's bag, and called up
reminiscences of friends who had equalled or exceeded it. Lewis was
uncomfortable, for he felt that in common civility Mr. Stocks should
have been asked to shoot. He could not excuse himself with the plea of
an unintentional omission, for he had heard reports of the gentleman's
wonderful awkwardness with a gun, and he had not found it in his heart
to spoil the sport of five keen and competent hands.

He dared not look at Alice, for his aunt's words had set his pulses
beating hotly. For the last week he had wrestled with himself, telling
his heart that this lady was beyond his ken for ever and a day, for he
belonged by nature to the clan of despondent lovers. Before, she had
had all the icy reserve, he all the fervours. The hint of some spark of
fire behind the snows of her demeanour filled him with a delirious joy.
Every movement of her body pleased him, every word which she spoke, the
blitheness of her air and the ready kindness. The pale, pretty Afflint
girls, with their wit and their confidence, seemed old and womanly
compared with Alice. Let simplicity be his goddess
henceforth--simplicity and youth.

The Pool of Ness is a great, black cauldron of clear water, with berries
above and berries below, and high crags red with heather. There you may
find shade in summer, and great blaeberries and ripening rowans in the
wane of August. These last were the snare for Alice, who was ever an
adventurer. For the moment she was the schoolgirl again, and all sordid
elderly cares were tossed to the wind. She teased Doctor Gracey to that
worthy's delight, and she bade George and Arthur fetch and carry in a
way that made them her slaves for life. Then she unbent to Mr. Stocks
and made him follow her out on a peninsula of rock, above which hung a
great cluster of fruit. The unfortunate politician was not built for
this kind of exercise, and slipped and clung despairingly to every root
and cleft. Lewis followed aimlessly: her gaiety did not fit with his
mood; and he longed to have her to himself and know his fortune.

He passed the panting Stocks and came up with the errant lady.

"For heaven's sake be careful, Miss Wishart," he cried in alarm.
"That's an ugly black swirl down there."

The girl laughed in his face.

"Isn't the place glorious!" she cried. "It's as cool as winter, and
oh! the colours of that hillside. I'm going up to that birk-tree to
sit. Do you think I can do it?"

"I am coming up after you," said Lewis.

She stopped and regarded it with serious eyes. "It's hard, but I'm
going to try. It's 'harder than the Midburn that I climbed up on the
day I saw you fishing."

She remembered! Joy caught at his heart, and he laughed so gladly that
Alice turned round to look at him. Something in his eyes made her turn
her head away and scan the birk-tree again.

Then suddenly there was a slip of soil, a helpless clutch at fern and
heather, a cry of terror, and he was alone on the headland. The black
swirl was closing over the girl's head.

He had been standing rapt in a happy fancy, his thoughts far in a world
of their own, and his eyes vacant of any purpose. Startled to
alertness, he still saw vaguely, and for a second stood irresolute and
wondering. Then came another splash, and a heavy body flung itself into
the pool from lower down the rock. He knew the black head and the round
shoulders of Mr. Stocks.

The man caught the girl as she struggled to get out of the swirl and
with strong ugly strokes began to make for shore. Lewis stood with a
sick heart, slow to realize the horror which had overtaken him. She was
out of danger, though the man was swimming badly; dismally he noted the
fact of his atrocious swimming. But this was the hero; he had stood
irresolute. The thought burned him like a hot iron.

Half a dozen pairs of hands relieved the swimmer of his burden. Alice
was little the worse, a trifle pale, very draggled and unhappy, and
utterly tired. Lady Manorwater wept over her and kissed her, and hailed
the dripping Stocks as her preserver. Lewis alone stood back. He
satisfied himself that she was unhurt, and then, on the plea of getting
the carriage, set off down the glen with a very grey, quivering face.


CHAPTER XIII

THE PLEASURES OF A CONSCIENCE

It was half-way down the glen that the full ignominy of his position
came on Lewis with the shock of a thunder-clap. A hateful bitterness
against her preserver and the tricks of fate had been his solitary
feeling, till suddenly he realized the part he had played, and saw
himself for a naked coward. Coward he called himself-without
reflection; for in such a moment the mind thinks in crude colours and
bold lines of division. He set his teeth in his lip, and with a heart
sinking at the shameful thought stalked into the farm stables where the
Glenavelin servants were.

He could not return to the Pool. Alice was little hurt, so anxiety was
needless; better let him leave Mr. Stocks to enjoy his heroics in
peace. cried Manabozho in a passion, 'am I then to be mocked by a babe!'
And with that he drew a great breath and blew the child away over the
mountains, and afterwards walked across and across the lodge, trampling
it down until not a trace of it remained. 'After all,' said Manabozho,
'I can do something. And I see nobody hereabouts to deny that I can put
my toe in my mouth!'"
As Menehwehna concluded, John waited for an explosion of wrath.
None came.

He raised his head after a minute and looked about him.
Barboux sat smoking and staring into the camp-fire. The Indian had laid
himself down to slumber, with his blanket drawn up to his ears.

CHAPTER VI.

BATEESE.

Next morning Barboux and Menehwehna held a long colloquy aft, but in
tones so low that John could not catch a word. By and by Muskingon
was called into council, and lastly le Chameau.

The two Indians were arguing against some proposal of the sergeant's,
which by the way they pointed and traced imaginary maps with their
fingers, spreading their palms apart to indicate distances, plainly
turned on a point of geography.

Le Chameau's opinion seemed to settle the dispute in the sergeant's
favour. Coming that afternoon to the mouth of a tributary stream on
the left bank he headed the canoe for it without a word, and at once the
paddles were busy, forcing her against the rapid current.

Then followed days during which, though reason might prove that in the
river he held an infallible clue, John's senses lost themselves
in the forest maze.

It overlapped and closed upon him, folding him deeper and illimitably
deeper. On the Richelieu he had played with thoughts of escape, noting
how the canoe lagged behind its convoy, and speculating on the Indians'
goodwill--faint speculations, since (without reckoning his own raw
wound) McQuarters was almost too weak to stir as yet, and to abandon him
would be a scurvy trick. So he had put aside his unformed plans, which
at the best had been little better than hopes; and now the wilderness
oppressed and smothered and buried them out of recollection.

The _voyageurs_ made tedious progress; for almost at once they came
to a chain of rapids around which the canoe had to be ported.

The Indians toiled steadily, and le Chameau too, stripped to the
waist and sweating; and by the end of the day each man carried a
dark red weal on one shoulder, sunk in the flesh by the canoe's
weight.

John could walk, but was powerless to help, and McQuarters had to
be lifted and carried with the baggage.

Barboux confined himself to swearing and jeering at le Chameau's
naked back--_diable de torse_, as he proclaimed it. The man was
getting past endurance.

On the second day he called a halt, left le Chameau in charge of the
camp and the prisoners, and went off with the Indians in search of a
moose, whose lowing call had twice echoed through the woods during
the night and been answered by Menehwehna on his birch-horn.

The forest swallowed them, and a blessed relief fell on the camp--no
more oaths and gibes for a while, but rest and green shade and the
murmur of the rapids below.

After the noon-day meal the hunchback stretched himself luxuriously and
began to converse.

He was explaining the situation with the help of three twigs, which he
laid in the form of a triangle--two long sides and a short base.

"_Voyons_, this long one will be the Richelieu and that other the St.
Lawrence; and here"--he put his finger near the base--"here is Montreal.
The sergeant knows what he is about. Those other boats, look you,
will go around so--" He traced their course around the apex very slowly.
"Whereas _we_--!"

A quick stroke of the finger across the base filled up the sentence, and
the little man smiled triumphantly.

"I see," said John, picking up the short twig and bending it into
an arch, "we are now climbing up this side of the slope, eh?

And on the other there will likewise be a river?"
The boatman nodded. "A hard way to find, m'sieur. But have no fear.

I have travelled it."
"Assuredly I have no fear with you, M.--"
"Guyon, m'sieur--Jean Bateese Guyon. This M. Barboux is a
merry fellow--il ne peut pas se passer de ses enjouements.

But I was not born like this." And here he touched his shoulder very
simply and gravely.

"It was an accident then, M. Guyon?"
"An accident--oh, yes, be assured it was an accident." A flush showed on
the little man's cheek, and his speech on a sudden became very
rapid.

"But as we were saying, I know the trail across yonder; and my brother
Dominique he knows it even better. I wish we may see Dominique, m'sieur;
there is no such _voyageur_ from Quebec up to Michilimackinac, aye or
beyond!

He has been down the Cascades by night, himself only; it was when I had
my--my accident, and he must go to fetch a surgeon. All along the river
it is talked of yet.
But it is nothing to boast of, for the hand of God must have been
upon him.

And as good as he is brave!"
"And where is your brother Dominique just now?"
"He will be at home, m'sieur. Soon they will be carrying the harvest
at Boisveyrac, and he is now the seigneur's farmer. He will be
worrying himself over the harvest, for Dominique takes things to
heart, both of this world and the next; whereas--I am a good
Catholic, I hope--but these things do not trouble me.

It seems there is no time to be troubled." Bateese looked up shyly, with
a blush like a girl's. "M'sieur may be able to tell me--or, maybe, he
will think it foolish. This love of women, now?"
"Proceed, M. Guyon."
"Ah, you believe in it!

When the sergeant begins his talk--c'est bien sale, is it not?

But that is not the sort I mean. Well, Dominique is in love, and
it brings him no happiness.

He can never have what he wants, nor would it be right, and he knows
it; but nevertheless he goes on craving for it and takes no pleasure
in life for the want of it.

I look at him, wondering. Then I say to myself, 'Bateese, when le bon
Dieu broke you in pieces He was not unkind.
Your heart is cracked and cannot hold love, like your brother's;
but what of that, while God is pouring love into it all day long
and never ceases?

You are ugly, and no maid will ever want you for a husband; therefore
you are lucky who cannot store away desire for this or that one, like
poor Dominique, who goes about aching and fit to burst. You go singing
_a la claire fontaine_, which is full of unhappiness and longing,
but all the while you are happy enough.' Indeed, that is the truth,
monsieur. I study this love of Dominique's, which makes him miserable;
but I cannot judge it.
I see that it brings pain to men."
"But delight also, my friend."
"And delight also--that is understood.

M'sieur is, perhaps, in love?
Or has been?"

"No, Bateese; not yet."

"But you will; with that face it is certain.

Now shall I tell you?-- to my guessing this love of women is like an
untried rapid.

Something smiles ahead for you, and you push for it and _voyez!_ in a
moment down you go, fifteen miles an hour and the world spinning;
and at the bottom of the fall, if the woman be good, sweet is the
journey and you wonder, looking back from smooth water, down what
shelves you were swept to her.

That, I say, is what I suppose this love to be; but for myself I shall
never try it.

Since le bon Dieu broke the pitcher its pieces are scattered all
over me, within; they hold nothing, but there they lie shining in
their useless fashion."

"Not useless, perhaps, Bateese."
"In their useless fashion," he persisted.

"They will smile and be gay at the sight of a pretty girl, or at the
wild creatures in the woods yonder, or at the thoughts in a song, or for
no better reason than that the day is bright and the air warm. But
they can store nothing. It is the same with religion, monsieur, and
with affairs of State; neither troubles my head.

Dominique is devout, for example; and Father Launoy comes to talk with
him, which makes him gloomy.
The reverend Father just hears my sins and lets me go; he knows
well enough that Bateese does not count.

And then he and Dominique sit and talk politics by the hour.

The Father declares that all the English are devils, and that
anyone who fights for the Holy Church and is killed by them will
rise again the third day."
John laughed aloud this time.

"I too think the reverend Father must be making some mistake," said
Bateese gravely. "No doubt he has been misinformed."
"No doubt. For suppose now that I were a devil?"
"Oh, m'sieur," Bateese expostulated. "_Ca serait bien dommage!_ But I
hope, in any case, God would pardon me for talking with you, seeing that
to contain anything, even hatred, is beyond me."

"Shall I tell you what I think, Bateese?

I think we are all pitchers and perhaps made to be broken.

Ten days ago I was brimful of ambitions; someone--le bon Dieu, or
General Abercromby--has toppled me over and spilt them all; and here I
lie on my side, not broken, but full of emptiness."
"Heh, heh--'full of emptiness'!" chuckled Bateese, to whom the phrase
was new.

"It may be that in time someone will set me up again and pour into me
wine of another sort.

I hope for this, because it is painful to lie upset and empty; and I do
not wish to be broken, for that must be even more painful--at the time,
eh?"
Bateese glanced up, with a twitch of remembered pain.

"Indeed, m'sieur, it hurt--at the time."
"But afterwards--when the pieces have no more trouble, being released
from pride--the pride of being a pitcher! Is it useless they are
as they lie upturned, reflecting--what? My friend, if we only knew this
we might discover that now, when it can no longer store up wine for
itself, the pitcher is at last serving an end it was made for."

The little hunchback glanced up again quickly. "You are talking for
my sake, monsieur, not for yourself! At your age I too could be melancholy
for amusement. Ah, pardon," for John had blushed hotly.
"Do I not know why you said it? Am I not grateful?"
He held out his hand. His eyes were shining.

CHAPTER VII.

THE WATCHER IN THE PASS.

Thenceforward, as the forest folded them deeper, John found a
wonderful solace in Bateese's company, although the two seldom
exchanged a word unless alone together, and after a day or two
Barboux took a whim to carry off the little boatman on his expeditions
and leave Muskingon in charge of the camp.

He pretended that John, as he mended of his wound, needed a stalwart
fellow for sentry; but the real reason was malice.

For some reason he hated Muskingon; and knowing Muskingon's delight
in every form of the chase, carefully thwarted it. On the other hand,
it was fun to drag off Bateese, who loved to sit by his boat and hated
the killing of animals.

"If I give him my parole," suggested John, "he will have no
excuse, and Muskingon can go in your place."

But to this Bateese would not listen. So the wounded were left, on hunting
days, in Muskingon's charge; and with him, too, John contrived to make
friends. The young Indian had a marvellous gift of silence, and would
sit brooding for hours.

Perhaps he nursed his hatred of Barboux; perhaps he distrusted the
journey--for he and Menehwehna, Ojibways both, were hundreds of
miles from their own country, which lay at the back of Lake Huron.

Now and again, however, he would unbend and teach John a few words of
the Ojibway language; or would allow him, as a fellow-sportsman, to sit
by the water's edge and study the Indian tricks of fishing.

There was one in particular which fairly amazed John. He had
crawled after Muskingon on his belly--though not understanding the
need of this caution--to the edge of a rock overhanging a deep pool.

The Indian peered over, unloosed his waist-belt, and drew off his scarlet
breeches as if for a bathe. But no, he did not intend this-- at least,
not just yet. He wound the breeches about his right arm and dipped it
cautiously, bending over the ledge until his whole body from the waist
overhung the water, and it was a wonder how his thighs kept their
grip. Then, in a moment, up flew his heels and over he soused.
John, peering down as the swirl cleared, saw only a red-brown back
heaving below; and as the seconds dragged by, and the back appeared
to heave more and more faintly, was plucking off his own clothes
to dive and rescue Muskingon from the rocks, when a pair of hands
shot up, holding aloft an enormous, bleeding cat-fish, and hitched
him deftly on the gaff which John hurried to lower.

But the fish had scarcely a kick left in him, Muskingon having smashed
his head against the crevices of the rock.

Indeed Barboux had this excuse for leaving Muskingon in camp by the
river--that there was always a string of fish ready before nightfall
when he and Menehwehna returned.

John, stupefied through the daylight hours, always seemed to awake with
the lighting of the camp-fire. This at any rate was the one scene he
afterwards saw most clearly, in health and in the delirium of fever--the
fire; the ring of faces; beyond the faces a sapling strung with
fish like short broad-swords reflecting the flames' glint; a stouter
sapling laid across two forked boughs, and from it a dead deer
suspended, with white filmed eyes, and the firelight warm on its
dun flank; behind, the black deep of the forest, sounded, if at
all, by the cry of a lonely wolf.

These sights he recalled, with the scent of green fir burning and
the smart of it on his lashes.

But by day he went with senses lulled, having forgotten all desire of
escape or return. These five companions were all his world. Was he a
prisoner?

Was Barboux his enemy? The words had no meaning.
They were all in the same boat, and "France" and "England" had
become idle names.

If he considered Barboux's gun, it was as a provider of game, or a
protector against any possible foe from the woods.
But the woods kept their sinister silence.

Once, indeed, at the head of a portage, they came upon a still reach of
water with a strip of clearing on its farther bank--_bois brule_
Bateese called it; but the fire, due to lightning no doubt, must
have happened many years before, for spruces of fair growth rose
behind the alders on the swampy shore, and tall wickup plants and
tussocks of the blueberry choked the interspaces.

A cool breeze blew down the waterway, as through a funnel, from the
uplands ahead, and the falls below sang deafeningly in the _voyageurs'_
ears as they launched their boat.

Suddenly Menehwehna touched Barboux by the elbow. His ear had caught the
crackling of a twig amid the uproar. John, glancing up as the
sergeant lifted his piece, spied the antlers of a bull-moose spreading
above an alder-clump across the stream. The tall brute had come
down through the _bois brule_ to drink, or to browse on the young
spruce-buds, which there grew tenderer than in the thick forest; and
for a moment moose and men gazed full at each other in equal
astonishment.

Barboux would have fired at once had not Menehwehna checked him with
a few rapid words.

With a snort of disgust the moose turned slowly, presenting his flank, and
crashed away through the undergrowth as the shot rang after him. Bateese
and Muskingon had the canoe launched in a second, and the whole party
clambered in and paddled across.
But before they reached the bank the beast's hoofs could be heard
drumming away on the ridge beyond the swamp and the branches snapping
as he parted them.

Barboux cursed his luck. The two Indians maintained that the moose
had been hit.

At length Muskingon, who had crossed the swamp, found a splash of blood
among the mosses, and again another on the leaves of a wickup plant a
rod or two farther on the trail. The sergeant, hurrying to inspect these
traces, plunged into liquid mud up to his knees, and was dragged
out in the worst of tempers by John, who had chosen to follow without
leave. Bateese and McQuarters remained with the canoe.

Each in his own fashion, then, the trackers crossed the swamp, and
soon were hunting among a network of moose-trails, which criss-crossed
one another through the burnt wood.

John, aware of his incompetence, contented himself with watching the
Indians as they picked up a new trail, followed it for a while, then
patiently harked back to the last spot of blood and worked off
on a new line. Barboux had theories of his own, which they received
with a galling silence.

It galled him at length to fury, and he was lashing them with curses
which made John wonder at their forbearance, when a call from the river
silenced him.

It came from Bateese. Bateese, who cared nothing for sport, had paddled
up-stream to inspect the next reach of the river, and there, at
the first ford, had found the moose lying dead and warm, with the
ripple running over his flank and his gigantic horns high out of
the water like a snag.

From oaths Barboux now turned incontinently to boasting. This was
his first moose, but he--he, Joachim Barboux, was a sportsman from
his birth. He still contended, but complacently and without rancour,
that had the Indians taken up the trail he had advised from the first
it would have led them straight to the ford. They heard him and went on
skinning the moose, standing knee deep in the bloody water, for the
body was too heavy to be dragged ashore without infinite labour.

Menehwehna found and handed him the bullet, which had glanced
across and under the shoulder-blade, and flattened itself against
one of the ribs on the other side.

Barboux pocketed it in high good humour; and when their work was done--an
ugly work, from which Bateese kept his eyes averted--a steak or
two cut out, with the tongue, and the carcass left behind to rot
in the stream--he praised them for brave fellows.

They listened as indifferently as they had listened to his
revilings.

This shot which slew the moose was the last fired on the upward journey.
They had followed the stream up to the hill ridges, where rapid succeeded
rapid; and two days of all but incessant portage brought them out
above the forest, close beneath the naked ridges where but a few
pines straggled.

Bateese pointed out a path by following which, as he promised, they
would find a river to carry them down into the St.

Lawrence.
He unfolded a scheme. There were trees beside that farther stream--
elm-trees, for example--blown down and needing only to be stripped;
his own eyes had seen them.

Portage up and over the ridge would be back-breaking work. Let the
canoe, therefore, be abandoned--hidden somewhere by the headwaters--and
let the Indians hurry ahead and rig up a light craft to carry the
party downstream.

They had axes to strip the bark and thongs to close it at bow and
stern.

What more was needed? As for the loss of his canoe, he understood
the sergeant's to be State business, requiring dispatch; and if
so, M. the Intendant at Montreal would recompense him.

Nay, he himself might be travelling back this way before long, and
then how handy to pick up a canoe on this side of the hills!

The sergeant _bravo_-ed and clapped the little man on his back,
drawing tears of pain. The canoe was hauled up and stowed in a damp
corner of the undergrowth under a mat of pine-branches, well
screened from the sun's rays, and the travellers began to trudge
on foot, in two divisions.

The Indians led, with John and Barboux, the latter being minded to
survey the country with them from the top of the ridge and afterwards
allow them to push on alone.

He took John to keep him company after their departure, and because the
two prisoners could not well be left in charge of Bateese, who
besides had his hands full with the baggage. So Bateese and McQuarters
toiled behind, the little man grunting and shifting his load from time
to time with a glance to assure himself that McQuarters was holding
out; now and then slackening the pace, but still, as he plodded,
measuring the slopes ahead with his eye, comparing progress with
the sun's march, and timing himself to reach the ridge at nightfall.

Barboux had proposed to camp there, on the summit. The Indians were
to push forward through the darkness.

Meanwhile John stepped ahead with Barboux and the Indians.
His spirits rose as he climbed above the forest; the shadow which
had lain on them slipped away and melted in the clear air.

Here and there he stumbled, his knees reminding him suddenly of
his weakness; but health was coming back to him, and he drank in
long pure draughts of it.

It was good, after all, to be alive and young.

A sudden throbbing in the air brought him to a halt; it came from a tiny
humming-bird poising itself over a bush-tufted rock on his right.
As it sang on, careless of his presence, John watched the music
bubbling and trembling within its flame-coloured throat.

He, too, felt ready to sing for no other reason than pure delight.
He understood the ancient gods and their laughter; he smiled down
with them upon the fret of the world and mortal fate.

Father Jove, _optimus maximus_, was a grand fellow, a good Catholic in
spite of misconception, and certainly immortal; god and gentleman both,
large, lusty, superlative, tolerant, debonair.

As for misconception, from this height Father Jove could overlook
centuries of it at ease--the Middle Ages, for instance.

"Did you ever happen to be in such a crisis as you speak of, Mr.
Haystoun? You have travelled a great deal."

"I have never had occasion to put a man to death," said Lewis, seeing
the snare and scorning to avoid it.

"But you have had difficulties?"

"Once I had to flog a couple of men. It was not pleasant, and worst of
all it did no good."

"Irrational violence seldom does," grunted Mr. Wishart.

"No, for, as I was going to say, it was a clear case where the men
should have been put to death. They had deserved it, for they had
disobeyed me, and by their disobedience caused the death of several
innocent people. They decamped shortly afterwards, and all but managed
to block our path. I blame myself still for not hanging them."

A deep silence hung over the table. Mr. Wishart and the Andrews stared
with uncomprehending faces. Mr. Stocks studied his plate, and Alice
looked on the speaker with eyes in which unwilling respect strove with
consternation.

Only the culprit was at his ease. The discomfort of these good people
for a moment amused him. Then the sight of Alice's face, which he
wholly misread, brought him back to decent manners.

"I am afraid I have shocked you," he said simply. "If one knocks about
the world one gets a different point of view."

Mr. Wishart restrained a flood of indignation with an effort. "We
won't speak on the subject," he said. "I confess I have my prejudices."

Mr. Stocks assented with a smile and a sigh. In the drawing-room
afterwards Lewis was presented with the olive-branch of peace. He had
to attend Mrs. Andrews to the piano and listen to her singing of a
sentimental ballad with the face of a man in the process of enjoyment.
Soon he pleaded the four miles of distance and the dark night, and took
his leave. His spirits had in a measure returned. Alice had not been
gracious, but she had shown no scorn. And her spell at the first sight
of her was woven a thousand-fold over his heart.

He found her alone for one moment in the hall.

"Alice--Miss Wishart, may I come and see you? It is a pity such near
neighbours should see so little of each other."

His hesitation made him cloak a despairing request in the garb of a
conventional farewell.

The girl had the sense to pierce the disguise. "You may come and see
us, if you like, Mr. Haystoun. We shall be at home all next week."

"I shall come very soon," he cried, and he was whirled away from the
light; with the girl's face framed in the arch of the doorway making a
picture for his memory.


When the others had gone to bed, Stocks and Mr. Wishart sat up over a
last pipe by the smoking-room fire.

The younger man moved uneasily in his chair. He had something to say
which had long lain on his mind, and he was uncertain of its reception.

"You have been for a long time my friend, Mr. Wishart," he began. "You
have done me a thousand kindnesses, and I only hope I have not proved
myself unworthy of them."

Mr. Wishart raised his eyebrows at the peculiar words. "Certainly you
have not," he said. "I regard you as the most promising by far of the
younger men of my acquaintance, and any little services I may have
rendered have been amply repaid me."

The younger man bowed and looked into the fire.

"It is very kind of you to speak so," he said. "I have been wondering
whether I might not ask for a further kindness, the greatest favour
which you could confer upon me. Have you made any plans for your
daughter's future?"

Mr. Wishart sat up stiffly on the instant. "You mean?" he said.

"I mean that I love Alice . . . your daughter . . . and I wish to make
her my wife. If you will give me your consent, I will ask her."

"But--but," said the old man, stammering. "Does the girl know anything
of this?"

"She knows that I love her, and I think she will not be unkind."

"I don't know that I object," said Mr. Wishart after a long pause. "In
fact I am very willing, and I am very glad that you had the good manners
to speak to me first. Yes, upon my word, sir, I am pleased. You have
had a creditable career, and your future promises well. My girl will
help you, for though I say it, she will not be ill-provided for. I
respect your character and I admire your principles, and I give you my
heartiest good wishes."

Mr. Stocks rose and held out his hand. He felt that the interview
could not be prolonged in the present fervour of gratitude.

"Had it been that young Haystoun now," said Mr. Wishart, "I should
never have given my consent. I resolved long ago that my daughter
should never marry an idle man. I am a plain man, and I care nothing
for social distinctions."

But as Mr. Stocks left the room the plain man glanced after him, and
sitting back suffered a moment's reflection. The form of this worker
contrasted in his mind with the figure of the idler who had that evening
graced his table. A fool, doubtless, but a fool with an air and a
manner! And for one second he allowed himself to regret that he was to
acquire so unromantic a son-in-law.


CHAPTER XV

The NEMESIS OF A COWARD

Two days later the Andrews drove up the glen to Etterick, taking with
them the unwilling Mr. Wishart. Alice had escaped the ordeal with some
feigned excuse, and the unfortunate Mr. Thompson, deeply grieving, had
been summoned by telegram from cricket to law. The lady had chattered
all the way up the winding moorland road, crying out banalities about
the pretty landscape, or questioning her very ignorant companions about
the dwellers in Etterick. She was full of praises for the house when it
came in view; it was "quaint," it was "charming," it was everything
inappropriate. But the amiable woman's prattle deserted her when she
found herself in the cold stone hall with the great portraits and the
lack of all modern frippery. It was so plainly a man's house, so
clearly a place of tradition, that her pert modern speech seemed for one
moment a fatuity.

It was an off-day for the shooters, and so for a miracle there were men
in the drawing-room at tea-time. The hostess for the time was an aunt
of Lewis's, a certain Mrs. Alderson, whose husband (the famous big-game
hunter) had but recently returned from the jaws of a Zambesi lion.
George's sister, Lady Clanroyden, a tall, handsome girl in a white
frock, was arranging flowers in a bowl, and on the sill of the open
window two men were basking in the sun. From the inner drawing-room
there came an echo of voices and laughter. The whole scene was sunny
and cheerful, youth and age, gay frocks and pleasant faces amid the old
tapestry and mahogany of a moorland house.

Mr. Andrews sat down solemnly to talk of the weather with the two men,
who found him a little dismal. One--he of the Zambesi lion episode--was
grizzled, phlegmatic, and patient, and in no way critical of his
company. So soon he was embarked on extracts from his own experience to
which Mr. Andrews, who had shares in some company in the neighbourhood,
listened with flattering attention. Mrs. Alderson set herself to
entertain Mr. Wishart, and being a kindly, simple person, found the
task easy. They were soon engaged in an earnest discussion of
unsectarian charities.

Lady Clanroyden, with an unwilling sense of duty, devoted herself to
Mrs. Andrews. That simpering matron fell into a vein of confidences
and in five brief minutes had laid bare her heart. Then came the
narrative of her recent visit to the Marshams, and the inevitable
mention of the Hestons.

"Oh, you know the Hestons?" said Lady Clanroyden, brightening.

"Very well indeed." The lady smiled, looking round to make sure that
Lewis was not in the room.

"Julia is here, you know. Julia, come and speak to your friends."

A dark girl in mourning came forward to meet the expansive smile of Mrs.
Andrews. Earnestly the lady hoped that she remembered the single brief
meeting on which she had built a fictitious acquaintance, and was
reassured when the newcomer shook hands with her pleasantly. Truth to
tell, Lady Julia had no remembrance of her face, but was too
good-natured to be honest.

"And how is your dear mother? I was so sorry to hear from a mutual
friend that she had been unwell." How thankful she was that she read
each week various papers which reported people's doings!

A sense of bewilderment lurked in her heart. Who was this Lewis
Haystoun who owned such a house and such a kindred? The hypothesis of
money made in coal seemed insufficient, and with much curiosity she set
herself to solve the problem.

"Is Mr. Haystoun coming back to tea?" she asked by way of a preface.

"No, he has had to go to Gledsmuir. We are all idle this afternoon, but
he has a landowner's responsibilities."

"Have his family been here long? I seem never to have heard the name."

Lady Clanroyden looked a little surprised. "Yes, they have been rather
a while. I forget how many centuries, but a good many. It was about
this place, you know, that the old ballad of 'The Riding of Etterick'
was made, and a Haystoun was the hero."

Mrs. Andrews knew nothing about old ballads, but she feigned a happy
reminiscence.

"It is so sad his being beaten by Mr. Stocks," she declared. "Of
course an old county family should provide the members for a district.
They have the hearts of the people with them."

"Then the hearts of the people have a funny way of revealing
themselves," Lady Clanroyden laughed. "I'm not at all sorry that Lewie
was beaten. He is the best man in the world, but one wants to shake him
up. His motto is 'Thole,' and he gets too few opportunities of
'tholing.'"

"You all call him 'Lewie,'" commented the lady. "How popular he must
be!"

Mabel Clanroyden laughed. "I have known him ever since I was a small
girl in a short frock and straight-brushed hair. He was never anything
else than Lewie to his friends. Oh, here is my wandering brother and my
only son returned," and she rose to catch up a small, self-possessed boy
of some six years, who led the flushed and reluctant George in tow.

The small boy was very dirty, ruddy and cheerful. He had torn his
blouse, and scratched his brow, and the crown of his straw hat had
parted company with the brim.

"George," said his sister severely, "have you been corrupting the
manners of my son? Where have you been?"

The boy--he rejoiced in the sounding name of Archibald--slapped a small
leg with a miniature whip, and counterfeited with great skill the pose
of the stable-yard. He slowly unclenched a smutty fist and revealed
three separate shillings.

"I won um myself," he explained.

"Is it highway robbery?" asked his mother with horrified eyes.
"Archibald, have you stopped a coach, or held up a bus or anything of
the kind?"

The child unclenched his hand again, beamed on his prize, smiled
knowingly at the world, and shut it.

"What has the dreadful boy been after? Oh, tell me, George, please. I
will try to bear it."

"We fell in with a Sunday-school picnic along in the glen, and Archie
made me take him there. And he had tea--I hope the little chap won't be
ill, by the by. And he made a speech or a recitation or something of
the sort. Nobody understood it, but it went down like anything."

"And do you mean to say that the people gave him money, and you allowed
him to take it?" asked an outraged mother.

"He won it," said George. "Won it in fair fight. He was second in the
race under twelve, and first in the race under ten. They gave him a
decent handicap, and he simply romped home. That chap can run, Mabel.
He tried the sack race, too, but the first time he slipped altogether
inside the thing and had to be taken out, yelling. But he stuck to it
like a Trojan, and at the second shot he got started all right, and
would have won it if he hadn't lost his head and rolled down a bank. He
isn't scratched much, considering he fell among whins. That also
explains the state of his hat."

"George, you shall never, never, as long as I live, take my son out with
you again. It is a wonder the poor child escaped with his life. You
have not a scrap of feeling. I must take the boy away or he will shame
me before everybody. Come and talk to Mrs. Andrews, George. May I
introduce my brother, Mr. Winterham?"

George, who wanted to smoke, sat down unwillingly in the chair which his
sister had left. The lady, whose airs and graces were all for men, put
on her most bewitching manner.

"Your sister and I have just been talking about this exquisite place,
Mr. Winterham. It must be delightful to live in such a centre of old
romance. That lovely 'Riding of Etterick' has been running in my head
all the way up."

George privately wondered at the confession. The peculiarly tragic and
ghastly fragments which made up "The Riding of Etterick," seemed
scarcely suited to haunt a lady's memory.

"Had you a long drive?" he asked in despair for a topic.

"Only from Glenavelin."

He awoke to interest. "Are you staying at Glenavelin just now? The
Wisharts are in it, are they not? We were a great deal about the place
when the Manorwaters were there."

"Oh yes. I have heard about Lady Manorwater from Alice Wishart. She
must be a charming woman; Alice cannot speak enough about her."

George's face brightened. "Miss Wishart is a great friend of mine, and
a most awfully good sort."

"And as you are a great friend of hers I think I may tell you a great
secret," and the lady patted him playfully. "Our pretty Alice is going
to be married."

George was thoroughly roused to attention. "Who is the man?" he asked
sharply.

"I think I may tell you," said Mrs. Andrews, enjoying her sense of
importance. "It is Mr. Stocks, the new member."

George restrained with difficulty a very natural oath. Then he looked
at his informant and saw in her face only silliness and truth. For the
good woman had indeed persuaded herself of the verity of her fancy. Mr.
Stocks had told her that he had her father's consent and good wishes,
and misinterpreting the girl's manner she had considered the affair
settled.

It was unfortunate that Mr. Wishart at this moment showed such obvious
signs of restlessness that the lady rose to take her leave, otherwise
George might have learned the truth. Rodd in the year 1832.
The translator has not given his name, but he was Mr. John
Bellingham Inglis, formerly a partner in the house of Inglis, Ellis,
and Co. It is greatly to be desired that there should be a careful reprint
of this most interesting work, and that the first edition of 1473
should be collated with MSS. The translation by Mr.

Inglis might be revised, and made to accompany the Latin text. Let us
hope, however, that his notes, if they be permitted again to appear,
may be purified from scepticism and profaneness.

The claim of Holcot to be the author of this tract, should be well
considered and decided upon; {203} and the errors of the learned
Fabricius (who had a manuscript copy in which the writer was styled
"Muiegervile", instead of Aungerville), which have been repeated
by Mansi, should be corrected.

Dr. James, the first Bodleian librarian, fell into a strange mistake
when he imagined that his inaccurate reprint at Oxford, in 1599,
was the _second_ edition of this treatise.

It was in reality the _fourth_, having been preceded by the
impressions, Colon.
1473; Spiræ, 1483; and Paris, 1500.

So far as I remember, the editio princeps has not been specified by
Gough. (_Brit. Topog_. ii. 121.)
R.G.

I find I can answer the Query of L.S. (Vol. ii., p. l53.), who asks,
"Where can I procure a _translation_ of Robert de Bury's _Philobiblon_?"

A translation was published by Mr. Rodd, in 1832, of which the following
is the title:--
"Philobiblon: a Treatise on the Love of Books, by Richard de Bury,
Bishop of Durham, written in MCCCXLIV; and translated from the
first Edition, MCCCCLXXIII, with some Collations. London:
Printed for Thomas Rodd, 2 Great Newport Street, Leicester Square,
1832."Curiously enough, for the first time he thought of Stocks with respect;
to have won the girl seemed in itself the proof of dignity and worth.

"Thanks very much for telling me. I am glad I know. No, I don't think
I'll go into the house yet."

               *     *     *     *     *

The days passed and Alice waited with anxious heart for the coming of
the very laggard Lewis. To-day he will come, she said each morning; and
evening found her--poor heart!--still expectant. She told herself a
thousand times that it was sheer folly. He meant nothing, it was a mere
fashion of speech; and then her heart would revolt and bid common sense
be silent. He came indeed with some of the Etterick party on a formal
call, but this was clearly not the fulfilment of his promise. So the
girl waited and despaired, while the truant at Etterick was breaking his
heart for the unattainable.

Mr. Stocks, having won the official consent, conducted his suit with
commendable discretion. Suit is the word for the performance, so full
was it of elaborate punctilios. He never intruded upon her unhappiness.
A studied courtesy, a distant thoughtfulness were his only compliments.
But when he found her gayer, then would he strive with subtle delicacies
of manner to make clear the part he desired to play.

The girl saw his kindness and was grateful. In the revulsion against
the Andrews he seemed a link with the more pleasant sides of life, and
soon in her despair and anger his modest merits took heroic proportions
in her eyes. She forgot her past dislike; she thought only of this, the
simple good man, contrasted with the showy and fickle-hearted--true
metal against glittering tinsel. His very weaknesses seemed homely and
venial. He was of her own world, akin to the things which deep down in
her soul she knew she must love to the last. It is to the credit of the
man's insight that he saw the mood and took pains to foster it.

Twice he asked her to marry him. The first time her heart was still
sore with disappointment and she refused--yet half-heartedly.

He waited his time and when the natural cheerfulness of her temper was
beginning to rise, he again tried his fortune.

"I cannot," she cried. "I cannot. I like you very much, but oh, it is
too much to ask me to marry you."

"But I love you with all my heart, Alice." And the honesty of his tone
and the distant thought of a very different hope brought the tears to
her eyes.

He had forgotten all pompous dreams and the stilted prospects with which
he had aforetime hoped to beguile his wife. The man was plain and
simple now, a being very much on fire with an honest passion. He may
have left her love-cold, but he touched the sympathy which in a true
woman is love's nearest neighbour. Before she knew herself she had
promised, and had been kissed respectfully and tenderly by her delighted
lover. For a moment she felt something like joy, and then, with a
dreadful thought of the baselessness of her pleasure, walked slowly
homewards by his side.


The next morning Alice rose with a dreary sense of the irrevocable. A
door seemed to have closed behind her, and the future stretched before
her in a straight dusty path with few nooks and shadows. This was not
the blithe morning of betrothal she had looked for. The rapturous
outlook on life which she had dreamed of was replaced by a cold and
business-like calculation of profits. The rose garden of the "god
unconquered in battle" was exchanged for a very shoddy and huckstering
paradise.

Mrs. Andrews claimed her company all the morning, and with the
pertinacity of her kind soon guessed the very obvious secret. Her
gushing congratulations drove the girl distracted. She praised the good
Stocks, and Alice drank in the comfort of such words with greedy ears.
From one young man she passed to another, and hung lovingly over the
perfections of Mr. Haystoun. "He has the real distinction, dear," she
cried, "which you can never mistake. It only belongs to old blood and
it is quite inimitable. His friends are so charming, too, and you can
always tell a man by his people. It is so pleasant to fall in with old
acquaintances again. That dear Lady Clanroyden promised to come over
soon. I quite long to see her, for I feel as if I had known her for
ages."

After lunch Alice fled the house and sought her old refuge--the hills.
There she would find the deep solitude for thought. She was not
broken-hearted, though she grieved now and again with a blind longing of
regret. But she was confused and shaken; the landmarks of her vision
seemed to have been removed, and she had to face the grim narrowing-down
of hopes which is the sternest trial for poor mortality.

Autumn's hand was lying heavy on the hillsides. Bracken was yellowing,
heather passing from bloom, and the clumps of wild-wood taking the soft
russet and purple of decline. Faint odours of wood smoke seemed to flit
over the moor, and the sharp lines of the hill fastnesses were drawn as
with a graving-tool against the sky. She resolved to go to the Midburn
and climb up the cleft, for the place was still a centre of memory. So
she kept for a mile to the Etterick road, till she came in view of the
little stone bridge where the highway spans the moorland waters.

There had been intruders in Paradise before her. Broken bottles and
scraps of paper were defacing the hill turf, and when she turned to get
to the water's edge she found the rushy coverts trampled on every side.
From somewhere among the trees came the sound of singing--a silly
music-hall catch. It was a sharp surprise, and the girl, in horror at
the profanation, was turning in all haste to leave.

But the Fates had prepared an adventure. Three half-tipsy men came
swinging down the slope, their arms linked together, and bowlers set
rakishly on the backs of their heads. They kept up the chorus of the
song which was being sung elsewhere, and they suited their rolling gait
to the measure.

"For it ain't Maria," came the tender melody; and the reassuring phrase
was repeated a dozen times. Then by ill-luck they caught sight of the
astonished Alice, and dropping their musical efforts they hailed her
familiarly. Clearly they were the stragglers of some picnic from the
town, the engaging type of gentleman who on such occasions is drunk by
midday. They were dressed in ill-fitting Sunday clothes, great flowers
beamed from their button-holes, and after the fashion of their kind
their waistcoats were unbuttoned for comfort. The girl tried to go back
by the way she had come, but to her horror she found that she was
intercepted. The three gentlemen commanded her retreat.

They seemed comparatively sober, so she tried entreaty. "Please, let me
pass," she said pleasantly. "I find I have taken the wrong road."

"No, you haven't, dearie," said one of the men, who from a superior
neatness of apparel might have been a clerk. "You've come the right
road, for you've met us. And now you're not going away." And he came
forward with a protecting arm.

Alice, genuinely frightened, tried to cross the stream and escape by the
other side. But the crossing was difficult, and she slipped at the
outset and wet her ankles. One of the three lurched into the water
after her, and withdrew with sundry oaths.

The poor girl was in sad perplexity. Before was an ugly rush of water
and a leap beyond her strength; behind, three drunken men, their mouths
full of endearment and scurrility. She looked despairingly to the level
white road for the Perseus who should deliver her.

And to her joy the deliverer was not wanting. In the thick of the idiot
shouting of the trio there came the clink-clank of a horse's feet and a
young man came over the bridge. He saw the picture at a glance and its
meaning; and it took him short time to be on his feet and then over the
broken stone wall to the waterside. Suddenly to the girl's delight
there appeared at the back of the roughs the inquiring, sunburnt face of
Lewis.

The men turned and stared with hanging jaws. "Now, what the dickens is
this?" he cried, and catching two of their necks he pulled their heads
together and then flung them apart.

The three seemed sobered by the apparition. "And what the h-ll is your
business?" they cried conjointly; and one, a dark-browed fellow, doubled
his fists and advanced.

Lewis stood regarding them with a smiling face and very bright, cross
eyes. "Are you by way of insulting this lady? If you weren't drunk,
I'd teach you manners. Get out of this in case I forget myself."

For answer the foremost of the men hit out. A glance convinced Lewis
that there was enough sobriety to make a fight of it. "Miss
Wishart . . . Alice," he cried, "come back and go down to the road
and see to my horse, please. I'll be down in a second."

The girl obeyed, and so it fell out that there was no witness to that
burn-side encounter. It was a complex fight and it lasted for more than
a second. Two of the men had the grace to feel ashamed of themselves
half-way through, and retired from the contest with shaky limbs and
aching faces. The third had to be assisted to his feet in the end by
his antagonist. It was not a good fight, for the three were
pasty-faced, overgrown young men, in no training and stupid with liquor.
But they pressed hard on Lewis for a little, till he was compelled in
self-defence to treat them as fair opponents.

He came down the road in a quarter of an hour with a huge rent in his
coat-sleeve and a small cut on his forehead. He was warm and
breathless, still righteously indignant at the event, and half-ashamed
of so degrading an encounter. He found the girl standing statue-like,
holding the bridle-rein, and looking into the distance with vacant eyes.

"Are you going back to Glenavelin, Miss Wishart?" he asked. "I think I
had better go with you if you will allow me."

Alice mutely assented and walked beside him while he led his horse. He
could think of nothing to say. The whole world lay between them now,
and there was no single word which either could speak without showing
some trace of the tragic separation.

It was the girl who first broke the silence.

"I want to thank you with all my heart," she stammered. And then by an
awkward intuition she looked in his face and saw written there all the
hopelessness and longing which he was striving to conceal. For one
moment she saw clearly, and then the crooked perplexities of the world
seemed to stare cruelly in her eyes. A sob caught her voice, and before
she was conscious of her action she laid a hand on Lewis's arm and burst
into tears.

The sight was so unexpected that it deprived him of all power of action.
Then came the fatally easy solution that it was but reaction of
over-strained nerves. Always ill at ease in a woman's presence, a
woman's tears reduced him to despair. He stroked her hair gently as he
would have quieted a favourite horse.

"I am so sorry that these brutes have frightened you. But here we are
at Glenavelin gates."

And all the while his heart was crying out to him to clasp her in his
arms, and the words which trembled on his tongue were the passionate
consolations of a lover.


CHAPTER XVI

A MOVEMENT OP THE POWERS

At Mrs. Montrayner's dinner parties a world of silent men is sandwiched
between a _monde_ of chattering women. The hostess has a taste for busy
celebrities who eat their dinner without thought of the cookery, and
regard their fair neighbours much as the diners think of the band in a
restaurant. She chose her company with care, and if at her table there
was not the busy clack of a fluent conversation, there was always the
possibility of _bons mots_ and the off-chance of a State secret. So to
have dined with the Montrayners became a boast in a small social set,
and to the unilluminate the Montrayner banquets seemed scarce less
momentous than Cabinet meetings.

Wratislaw found himself staring dully at a snowy bank of flowers and
looking listlessly at the faces beyond. He was extremely worried, and
his grey face and sunken eyes showed the labour he had been passing
through. The country was approaching the throes of a crisis, and as yet
the future was a blind alley to him. There was an autumn session, and
he had been badgered all the afternoon in the Commons; his even temper
had been perilously near its limits, and he had been betrayed
unconsciously into certain ineptitudes which he knew would grin in his
face on the morrow from a dozen leading articles. The Continent seemed
on the edge of an outbreak; in the East especially, Russia by a score of
petty acts had seemed to foreshadow an incomprehensible policy. It was
a powder-barrel waiting for the spark; and he felt dismally that the
spark might come at any moment from some unlooked-for quarter of the
globe. He ran over in his mind the position of foreign affairs. All
seemed vaguely safe; and yet he was conscious that all was vaguely
unsettled. The world was on the eve of one of its cyclic changes, and
unrest seemed to make the air murky.

He tried to be polite and listened attentively to the lady on his right,
who was telling him the latest gossip about a certain famous marriage.
But his air was so manifestly artificial that she turned to the
presumably more attractive topic of his doings.

"You look ill," she said--she was one who adopted the motherly air
towards young men, which only a pretty woman can use. "Are they
over-working you in the House?"

"Pretty fair," and he smiled grimly. "But really I can't complain. I
have had eight hours' sleep in the last four days, and I don't think
Beauregard could say as much. Some day I shall break loose and go to a
quiet place and sleep for a week. Brittany would do--or Scotland."

"I was in Scotland last week," she said. "I didn't find it quiet. It
was at one of those theatrical Highland houses where they pipe you to
sleep and pipe you to breakfast. I used to have to sit up all night by
the fire and read Marius the Epicurean, to compose myself. Did you ever
try the specific?"

"No," he said, laughing. "I always soothe my nerves with Blue-books."

She made a mouth at the thought. "And do you know I met such a nice man
up there, who said you were a great friend of his? His name was
Haystoun."

"Do you remember his Christian name?" he asked.

"Lewis," she said without hesitation.

He laughed. "He is a man who should only have one name and that his
Christian one. I never heard him called 'Haystoun' in my life. How is
he?"

"He seemed well, but he struck me as being at rather a loose end. What
is wrong with him? You know him well and can tell me. He seems to have
nothing to do; to have fallen out of his niche, you know. And he looks
so extraordinarily clever."

"He _is_ extraordinarily clever. But if I undertook to tell you what
was wrong with Lewie Haystoun, I should never get to the House to-night.
The vitality of a great family has run to a close in him. He is strong
and able, and yet, unless the miracle of miracles happens, he will never
do anything. Two hundred years ago he might have led some mad Jacobite
plot to success. Three hundred and he might have been another Raleigh.
Six hundred, and there would have been a new crusade. But as it is, he
is out of harmony with his times; life is too easy and mannered; the
field for a man's courage is in petty and recondite things, and Lewie is
not fitted to understand it. And all this, you see, spells a kind of
cowardice: and if you have a friend who is a hero out of joint, a great
man smothered in the wrong sort of civilization, and all the while one
who is building up for himself with the world and in his own heart the
reputation of a coward, you naturally grow hot and bitter."

The lady looked curiously at the speaker. She had never heard the
silent politician speak so earnestly before.

"It seems to me a clear case of _chercher la femme_," said she.

"That," said Wratislaw with emphasis, "is the needle-point of the whole
business. He has fallen in love with just the wrong sort of woman.
Very pretty, very good, a demure puritanical little Pharisee, clever
enough, too, to see Lewie's merits, too weak to hope to remedy them, and
too full of prejudice to accept them. There you have the makings of a
very pretty tragedy."

"I am so sorry," said the lady. She was touched by this man's anxiety
for his friend, and Mr. Lewis Haystoun, whom she was never likely to
meet again, became a figure of interest in her eyes. She turned to say
something more, but Wratislaw, having unburdened his soul to some one,
and feeling a little relieved, was watching his chief's face further
down the table. That nobleman, hopelessly ill at ease, had given up the
pretence of amiability and was now making frantic endeavours to send
mute signals across the flowers to his under secretary.

The Montrayner guests seldom linger. Within half an hour after the
ladies left the table Beauregard and Wratislaw were taking leave and
hurrying into their greatcoats.

"You are going down to the House," said the elder man, "and I'll come
too. I want to have some talk with you. I tried to catch your eye at
dinner to get you to come round and deliver me from old Montrayner, for
I had to sit on his right hand and couldn't come round to you.
Heigho-ho! I wish I was a Trappist."

The cab had turned out of Piccadilly into St. James's Street before
either man spoke again. The Six Nations are never at peace; there were
five hundred of them back at Ticonderoga, seated on a hill opposite and
only waiting. Yes, and in peace they have never less reasons than
fingers and toes for killing a man. Your questions are for a child; but
_I_ say that the Iroquois have been here and killed this man, and in
a hurry.

Now answer me; if, after killing him, they wished to spy down upon our
coming, and were in a hurry, why did they not take the short way
through the pass?"

"That is simple. Any fresh track of men at the entrance, or close
within it, would warn us back; therefore they would say, 'Let us climb
to the ridge and watch, though it take longer.'"
"Good; now you talk with a clear head, and I have less fear for you.

They may be aloft there, as you say, having drawn us into their trap.

Yet I do not think it, for why should they be expecting us? It
is now two days since you killed the moose. They could not have been near
in a body to hear that shot fired, for it is hours since they
overtook this man, following him up from the other slope.

But a scout might have heard it and climbed across to warn them;
yes, that is possible."

But here Muskingon came crawling back.

He had inspected the ground by the lip of the descent, and in his belief
the dead man's pursuers were three or four at the most, and had hurried
down the hill again when their work was done.

Menehwehna nodded gravely. "It is as I thought, and for the moment we
need not fear; but we cannot spend the night in this trap--for trap it
is, whether watched or not. Do we go forward then, or back?"
Barboux cursed. "How in the name of twenty devils can I go back!
Back to the Richelieu?--it would be wasting weeks!" His hand went up to
his breast, then he seemed to recollect himself and turned upon
John roughly. "Step back, you, and find if the others are in
sight.
We, here, have private matters to discuss."
John obeyed. The first turn of the cliff shut off the warm westerly
glow, and he went back through twilight.

He knew now why Barboux had lagged behind on the Richelieu, in scorn
of discipline.

The man must be entrusted with some secret missive of Montcalm's, and,
being puffed up with it, had in a luckless hour struck out a line of
his own. To turn back now would mean his ruin; might end in his
standing up to be shot with his back to a wall. . . .

Between the narrow walls of the pass night was closing down rapidly.
John lifted his face towards the strip of sky aloft, greenish-blue and
tranquil. . . .

He fell back--his heart, after one leap, freezing--slowly freezing
to a standstill; his hands spreading themselves against the face
of the rock.

What voice was that, screaming? . . . one--two--three--horrible human
screams, rending the twilight, beating down on his ears, echoing
from wall to wall. . . .

The third and last scream died out in a low, bubbling wail.
Close upon it rose a sound which John could not mistake--the whoop of
Indians. He plucked his hands from the rock, and ran; but, as he turned
to run, in the sudden silence a body thudded down upon the path behind
him.

In twenty strides he was back again at the issue of the pass.
The two Indians had vanished. Barboux's gross body alone blocked the pale
daylight there.

Barboux lingered a moment, stooping over the murdered man; but he
too ran at the sound of John's footsteps, and the corpse, as John
came abreast of it, slid over in a silly heap, almost rolling against
his legs.

He leaped aside and cleared it, and in a moment was pelting down the slope
after the sergeant, who flung back an agonised doubtful glance,
and recognising his pursuer grunted with relief.

At their feet, and far below, spread a wide plain--a sea of forest
rolling, wave upon wave, with a gleam of water between.

The river, then--Bateese's river--was near at hand.

Fifty yards down the slope, which was bare of cover, he saw
the two Indians.

Muskingon led by a few strides, and the pair seemed to be moving
noiselessly; yet, by the play of their shoulders, both were running
for their lives.

John raced past the lumbering sergeant and put forth all his strength to
catch up with Menehwehna.

The descent jarred his knees horribly, and still, as he plunged deeper
into the shadow of the plain, the stones and bushes beneath his
feet grew dimmer and the pitfalls harder to avoid.

His ears were straining for the Indian war-whoop behind him; he
wondered more and more as the seconds grew into minutes and yet
brought no sounds but the trickle and slide of stones dislodged by Barboux
thundering in the rear.

They were close upon the outskirts of the forest.

He had caught up with Menehwehna and was running at his heels, stride
for stride.

In the first dark shadow of the trees Menehwehna checked himself, came
to a sudden halt, and swung round, panting. Somehow, although unable to
see his face, John knew him to be furiously angry--with the cold fury
of an Indian.

"Englishman, you are a fool!"
"But why?" panted John innocently. "Is it the noise I made?

I cannot run as you Indians can."
Menehwehna grunted. "What matters noise more or less, when _he_ is
anywhere near?"
"They have not seen us!"

gasped Barboux, blundering up at this moment and almost into John's
arms.

"To be sure," answered Menehwehna sardonically, "they have not seen
us.

It may even be that the great Manitou has smitten them with deafness and
they have not heard you, O illustrious!--and with blindness, that they
cannot trace your footmarks; yes, and perchance with folly, too,
so that, returning to a dead man whom they left, they may wonder
not at all that he has tumbled himself about!"

"_Peste!_ It was this Englishman's fault. He came running behind and
hurried me. But you Indians do not know everything. I found--" but
here Barboux checked himself on the edge of a boast.

The Indian had sunk on one knee and laid his ear to the ground.

"It will be of great price," said he, "if what you found will take
us out of this.

They are not following as yet, and the water is near."

CHAPTER IX.

MENEHWEHNA SETTLES ACCOUNTS.

Weary as they were, there could be no thought of halting. The river and
the plain lay far below them yet, and they must push on through the
darkness.

Hitherto the forest had awed John by its loneliness; its night-voices,
falling at rare intervals on his ear and awaking him from dreams beside
the camp-fire, had seemed to cry and challenge across immense
distances as though the very beasts were far astray.

But now, as he crouched behind Menehwehna, he felt it to be no less
awfully inhabited. A thousand creeping things stirred or slunk away
through the undergrowth; roosting birds edged towards one another in the
branches, ever on the point of flapping off in panic; the thickets
were warm from the flanks of moose and deer.

And all this wild life, withdrawing, watched the four fugitives with a
thousand eyes.

These imaginary terrors did him one service. They kept him awake.
By and by his brain began to work clearly, as it often will when the
body has passed a certain point of fatigue.

"If these Indians on the ridge are Iroquois, why should I run? The Iroquois
are friends of England, and would recognise my red coat. The man they
killed was a Canadian, a _coureur de bois_; they will kill Barboux
if they catch him, and also these two Ojibways.

But to me capture will bring release."
He understood now why Menehwehna had called him a fool.
Nevertheless, as he went, the screams on the cliff rang in his ears
again, closing the argument.

Muskingon still led. He had struck a small mountain stream and
was tracking it down towards the river--keeping wide of it to avoid the
swampy ground, relying on his ears and the lie of the slope.

Menehwehna followed close, ready to give counsel if needed; but the young
Indian held on in silence, never once hesitating.

The debate in John's brain started afresh. "These Iroquois mean
_me_ no harm. I am sure enough of that, at any rate, to face the
risk of it. Barboux is my enemy--my country's enemy--and I dislike in
him the little I don't despise.

As for Menehwehna and Muskingon--they, I suppose, are my enemies,
and the Iroquois my friends."

Somehow John felt that when civilised nations employ uncivilised allies,
the simplest questions of ethics may become complicated.

He remembered a hundred small acts of kindness, of good-fellowship; and
he recalled, all too vividly, the murdered man and his gory head.

But might he not escape back and show himself without lessening his
comrades' chances?

It was a nuisance that he must always be thinking of them as comrades.

Was he not their prisoner? Would their comradeship help him at the
end of the journey?

. . .

The moon had risen over the hills when Muskingon's piloting brought
them out once more under open sky, at a point where the mountain
stream met and poured itself into a larger one hurrying down from
the northeast.

A few yards below their confluence the riverbed narrowed, and the
waters, gathering speed, were swept down through a rocky chasm towards
a cataract, the noise of which had been sounding in John's ears
while he debated.

Hitherto he had weighed the question as one between himself and his
three companions. For the moment he saw no chance of giving them the
slip; and, if a chance occurred, the odds must be terribly unequal.

Still, supposing that one occurred, ought he to take it?

Putting aside the insane risk, ought he to bring death--and such a death--
down upon these three men, two of whom he looked upon as friends?

Did his country, indeed, require this of him? He wished he had his
cousin Dick beside him for counsellor, or could borrow Dick's practical
mind. Dick always saw clearly.

And behold!

as he stepped out upon the river bank, his wish was given him.

He remembered suddenly that this Barboux carried a message--of what
importance he could not tell, nor was it for him to consider.
Important or not, it must be to England's detriment, and as a soldier,
he had no other duty than to baulk it.

Why had he not thought of this before?

It ruled out all private questions, even that of escape or of saving
his own life. The report of a gun would certainly be heard on the ridge
above; and if, by forcing Barboux to shoot, he could draw down the
Iroquois, why then--live or die--the signal must be given.

He scanned the chasm. It could not measure less than twenty feet across,
and the current whirled through it far below--thirty feet perhaps.

He eyed his companions.

Barboux leaned on his gun a few paces from the brink, where the two
Indians stood peering down at the dim waters.

John dropped on one knee, pretending to fasten a button of his gaiters,
and drew a long breath while he watched for his chance. Presently
Muskingon straightened himself up and, as if satisfied with his
inspection, began to lead the way again, slanting his course away from
the bank and back towards the selvage of the woods. Menehwehna followed
close, and Barboux shouldered his musket and fell into third place,
grunting to John to hurry after.

And so John did--for a dozen paces back from the river.
Then, swinging quickly on his heel, he dashed for the brink, and leapt.

So sudden was the manoeuvre that not until his feet left the rock--it
seemed, at that very instant--did he hear the sergeant's oath of
dismay.

Even as he flew across the whirling darkness, his ear was listening for
the shot to follow.

The take-off--a flat slab of rock--was good, and the leap well timed.
But he had allowed too little, perhaps, for his weariness and his recent
wound; and in the darkness he had not seen that of the two brinks the far
one stood the higher by many inches. In mid-air he saw it, and flung his
arms forward as he pitched against it little more than breast-high. His
fingers clutched vainly for hold, while his toes scraped the face of
the rock, but found no crevice to support them.

Had his body dropped a couple of inches lower before striking the
bank, or had the ledge shelved a degree or two more steeply, or had
it been smooth or slippery with rain, he must have fallen backward
into the chasm.

As it was, his weight rested so far forward upon his arms that,
pressing his elbows down upon the rock, he heaved himself over on
the right side of the balance, fell on his face and chest, and so
wriggled forward until he could lift a knee.

The roar of the waters drowned all other noise. Only that faint cry of
Barboux had followed him across. But now, as he scrambled to his feet,
he heard a sudden thud on the ledge behind him. A hand clutched at his
heel, out of the night. At once he knew that his stratagem had failed,
that Barboux would not fire, that Muskingon was upon him. He turned to
get at grips; but, in the act of turning, felt his brain open and close
again with a flame and a crash, stretched out both arms, and
pitched forward into darkness.

It seemed--for he knew no break in his sensations--that the ground,
as he touched it, became strangely soft and elastic.

For a while he wondered at this idly, then opened his eyes--but only
to blink and close them again, for they were met by broad daylight.

He was lying on the grass; he was resting in Muskingon's arms amid
a roaring of many waters; he was being carried between Muskingon and
Menehwehna beneath a dark roof of pines--and yet their boughs were
transparent, and he looked straight through them into blue sky.
Was he dead? Had he passed into a world where time was not, that all these
things were happening together? If so, how came the two Indians here?
And Barboux? He could hear Barboux muttering: no, shouting aloud.
Why was the man making such a noise? And who was that firing? . . . Oh,
tell him to stop! The breastwork will never be carried in this way--haven't
the troops charged it again and again? Look at Sagramore, there: pull
him off somebody and let him die quiet!

For pity's sake fetch the General, to make an end of this folly!

Forty-sixth! Where are the Forty-sixth? . . .

He was lying in a boat now--a canoe. But how could this be,
when the boat was left behind on the other side of the mountain? Yet
here it was, plain as daylight, and he was lying in it; also he could
remember having been lifted and placed here by Muskingon--not by
Menehwehna.

To be sure Menehwehna crouched here above him, musket in hand.

Between the shouting and firing he heard the noise of water tumbling
over rapids. The noise never ceased; it was all about him; and yet the
boat did not move. It lay close under a low bank, with a patch of swamp
between it and the forest: and across this swamp towards the forest
Muskingon was running. John saw him halt and lift his piece as Barboux
came bursting through the trees with an Indian in pursuit. The two
ran in line, the Indian lifting a tomahawk and gaining at every
stride; and Muskingon had to step aside and let them come abreast
of him before he fired at close quarters.

The Indian fell in a heap; Barboux struggled through the swamp and leapt
into the canoe as Muskingon turned to follow.

But now three--four--five Indians were running out of the woods upon
him; four with tomahawks only, but the fifth carried a gun; and,
while the others pursued, this man, having gained the open, dropped
swiftly on one knee and fired.

At that instant Menehwehna's musket roared out close above John's
head; but as the marksman rolled over, dead, on his smoking gun,
Muskingon gave one leap like a wounded stag's, and toppled prone
on the edge of the bank close above the canoe.

And with that, and even as Menehwehna sprang to his feet to reach and
rescue him, Barboux let fly an oath, planted the butt of his musket
against the bank, and thrust the canoe off. It was done in a second.

In another, the canoe had lurched afloat, the edge of the rapid
whirled her bow round, and she went spinning down-stream.

All this John saw distinctly, and afterwards recalled it all in order,
as it befell.

But sometimes, as he recalled it, he seemed to be watching the scene
with an excruciating ache in his brain; at others, in a delicious
languor of weakness.

He remembered too how the banks suddenly gathered speed and slid
past while the boat plunged and was whirled off in the heart of the
rapid.

Muskingon had uttered no cry: but back--far back--on the shore
sounded the whoops of the Iroquois.

Then--almost at once--the canoe was floating on smooth water and
Menehwehna talking with Barboux.

"It had better be done so," Menehwehna was saying. "You are younger
than I, and stronger, and it will give you a better chance."

"Don't be a fool," growled Barboux. "The man was dead, I tell
you.
They are always dead when they jump like that. _Que diable!_ I have seen
enough fighting to know."
But Menehwehna replied, "You need much sleep and you cannot watch
against me. I have reloaded my gun, and the lock of yours is wet.
Indeed, therefore, it must be as I say."

After this, Barboux said very little: but the canoe was paddled to shore
and the two men walked aside into the woods. The sun was setting
and they cast long shadows upon the bank as they stepped out.
John lay still and dozed fitfully, waking up now and then to brush
away the mosquitoes that came with the first falling shadows to
plague him.
By and by in the twilight Menehwehna returned and stood above the
bank. He tossed a bundle into the canoe, stepped after it, and
pushed off without hurry.We have
been far too sure of the safety of that Kashmir frontier. You mean, of
course, that there may be a chance of an invasion?"

"I mean nothing. But things look ugly enough in Europe just now, and
Asia would naturally be the starting-point."

Lewis made some rapid calculations in his head which he jotted on the
wood of the fireplace. "It would take a week to get from Bardur to
Taghati by the ordinary Kashmir rate of travelling, but of course the
place is unknown and it might take months. One would have to try it?"

"I can only give you the bare facts. If you decide to go, Beauregard
will give you particulars in town."

"When would he want to know?"

"At once. I go back to-morrow morning, and I must have your answer
within three days. You would be required to start within a week. You
can take time and quiet to make up your mind."

"It's a great chance," said Lewis. "Does Beauregard think it
important?"

"Of the highest importance. Also, of course it is dangerous. The
travelling is hard, and you may be knocked on the head at any moment as
a spy."

"I don't mind that," said the other, flushing. "I've been through the
same thing before."

"I need not say the work will be very difficult. Remember that your
errand will not be official, so in case of failure or trouble we could
not support you. We might even have to disclaim all responsibility. In
the event of success, on the other hand, your fortune is something more
than made."

"Would you go?" came the question.

"No," said Wratislaw, "I shouldn't."

"But if you were in my place?"

"I should hope that I would, but then I might not have the courage. I
am giving you the brave man's choice, Lewie. You will be going out to
uncertainty and difficulty and extreme danger. On the other hand, I
believe in my soul it will harden you into the man you ought to be.
Lord knows I would rather have you stay at home!"

The younger man looked up for a second and saw something in Wratislaw's
face which made him turn away his eyes. The look of honest regret cut
him to the heart. Those friends of his, of whom he was in nowise
worthy, made the burden of his self-distrust doubly heavy.

"I will tell you within three days," he said hoarsely. "God bless you,
Tommy. I don't deserve to have a man like you troubling himself about
me."

It was his one spoken tribute to their friendship; and both, with the
nervousness of honest men in the presence of emotion, hastened to change
the subject.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE FURTHER BRINK

Wratislaw left betimes the next morning, and a long day faced Lewis with
every hour clamouring for a decision. George would be back by noon, and
before his return he must seek quiet and the chances of reflection. He
was happy with a miserable fluctuating happiness. Of a sudden his
horizon was enlarged, but as he gazed it seemed to narrow again. His
mind was still unplumbed; somewhere in its depths might lie the
shrinking and unwillingness which would bind him to the dreary present.

He went out to the autumn hills and sought the ridge which runs for
miles on the lip of the glen. It was a grey day, with snow waiting in
cloud-banks in the north sky and a thin wind whistling through the
pines. The scene matched his humour. He was in love for the moment
with the stony and stormy in life. He hungered morbidly for
ill-fortune, something to stamp out the ease in his soul, and weld him
into the form of a man.

He had got his chance and the rest lay with himself. It was a chance of
high adventure, a great mission, a limitless future. At the thought the
old fever began to rise in his blood. The hot, clear smell of rock and
sand, the brown depths of the waters, the far white peaks running up
among the stars, all spoke to him with the long-remembered call. Once
more he should taste life, and, alert in mind and body, hold up his chin
among his fellows. It would be a contest of wits, and for all his
cowardice this was not the contest he shrank from.

And then there came back on him, like a flood, the dumb misery of
incompetence which had weighed on heart and brain. The hatred of the
whole struggling, sordid crew, all the cant and ugliness and ignorance
of a mad world, his weakness in the face of it, his fall from common
virtue, his nerveless indolence--all stung him like needle points, till
he cried out in agony. Anything to deliver his soul from such a
bondage, and in his extreme bitterness his mind closed with Wratislaw's
offer.

He felt--and it is a proof of his weakness--a certain nameless feeling
of content when he had once forced himself into the resolution. Now at
least he had found a helm and a port to strain to. As his fancy dwelt
upon the mission and drew airy pictures of the land, he found to his
delight a boyish enthusiasm arising. Old simple pleasures seemed for
the moment dear. There was a zest for toils and discomforts, a
tolerance of failure, which had been aforetime his chief traveller's
heritage.

And then as he came to the ridge where the road passes from Glenavelin
to Glen Adler, he stopped as in duty bound to look at the famous
prospect. You stand at the shedding of two streams; behind, the green
and woodland spaces of the pastoral Avelin; at the feet, a land of
stones and dwarf junipers and naked rifts in the hills, with
white-falling waters and dark shadows even at midday. And then, beyond
and afar, the lines of hill-land crowd upon each other till the eye is
lost in a mystery of grey rock and brown heather and single bald peaks
rising sentinel-like in the waste. The grey heavens lent a chill
eeriness to the dim grey distances; the sharp winds, the forerunners of
snow, blew over the moors like blasts from a primeval night.

By an odd vagary of temper the love of these bleak hills blazed up
fiercely in his heart. Never before had he felt so keenly the nameless
glamour of his own heritage. He had not been back six months and yet he
had come to accept all things as matters of course, the beauty of the
place, its sport, its memories. Rarely had he felt that intimate joy in
it which lies at the bottom of all true souls. There is a sentiment
which old poets have made into songs and called the "Lilt of the
Heather," and which is knit closer to man's heart than love of wife or
kin or his own fair fortune. It had not come to him in the time of the
hills' glory, but now on the brink of winter the far-off melancholy of
the place and its infinite fascination seemed to clutch at his
heart-strings. It was his own land, the place of his fathers; and now
he must sever himself from it and carry only a barren memory.

And yet he felt no melancholy. Rather it was the immortal gaiety of the
wanderer, to whom the homeland is dearest as a memory, who pitches his
camp by waters of Babylon and yet as ever the old word on his lip, the
old song in his ear, and the kindly picture in his heart. Strange that
it is the little races who wander farthest and yet have the eternal
home-sickness! And yet not strange, for to the little peoples, their
land, bare and uncouth and unfriendly for the needs of life, must be
more the ideal, the dream, than the satisfaction. The lush countries
give corn and wine for their folks, the little bare places afford no
more than a spiritual heritage. Yet spiritual it is, and for two men
who in the moment of their extremity will think on meadow, woodland, or
placid village, a score will figure the windy hill, the grey lochan, and
the mournful sea.

For the moment he felt a self-pity which he cast from him. To this
degradation at least he should never come. But as the thought of Alice
came up ever and again, his longing for her seemed to be changed from
hot pain to a chastened regret. The red hearth-fire was no more in his
fancy. The hunger for domesticity had gone, and the girl was now less
the wife he had desired than the dream of love he had vainly followed.
As he came back across the moors, for the first time for weeks his
jealous love left him at peace. His had been a fanciful Sylvia, "holy,
fair, and wise"; and what if mortal Sylvia were unkind, there was yet
comfort in this elusive lady of his memories.


He found George at the end of a second breakfast, a very ruddy, happy
young man hunting high and low for a lost tobacco-jar.

"Oh, first-class," he said in answer to Lewis's question. "Out and out
the best day's shooting I've had in my life. You were an ass not to
come, you know. A lot of your friends there, tremendously disappointed
too, and entrusted me with a lot of messages for you which I have
forgotten."

His companion's high spirits infected Lewis and he fell into cheery
gossip. Then he could contain the news no more.

"I had Tommy up last night on a flying visit. He says that Beauregard
wants me to go out to Kashmir again. There has been some threatening of
a row up there, and he thinks that as I know the place I might be able
to get good information."

"Official?" asked George.

"Practically, yes; but in theory it's quite off my own bat, and they are
good enough to tell me that they will not acknowledge responsibility.
However, it's a great chance and I am going."

"Good," said the other, and his face and voice had settled into gravity.
"Pretty fair sport up in those parts, isn't there?"

"Pretty fair? it's about the best in the world. Your ordinary man who
goes the grand tour comes home raving about the sport in the Himalayan
foothills, and it's not to be named with this."

"Good chance too of a first-rate row, isn't there? Natives troublesome,
and Russia near, and that sort of thing?" George's manner showed a
growing enthusiasm.

"A rather good chance. It is about that I'm going, you know."

"Then if you don't mind, I am coming with you."

Lewis stared, incredulous.

"It's quite true. I am serious enough. I am doing nothing at the Bar,
and I want to travel, proper travelling, where you are not coddled with
railways and hotels."

"But it's hideously risky, and probably very arduous and thankless. You
will tire of it in a week."

"I won't," said George, "and in any case I'll make my book for that.
You must let me come, Lewie. I simply couldn't stand your going off
alone."

"But I may have to leave you. There are places where one can go when
two can't."

"When you come to that sort of place I'll stay behind. I'll be quite
under your orders."

"Well, at any rate take some time to think over it."

"Bless you, I don't want time to think over it," cried George. "I know
my own mind. It's the chance I've been waiting on for years."

"Thanks tremendously then, my dear chap," said Lewis, very ill at ease.
"It's very good of you. I must wire at once to Tommy."

"I'll take it down, if you like. I want to try that new mare of yours
in the dog-cart."

When his host had left the room George forgot to light his pipe, but
walked instead to the window and whistled solemnly. "Poor old man," he
said softly to himself, "it had to come to this, but I'm hanged if he
doesn't take it like a Trojan." And he added certain striking comments
on the ways of womankind and the afflictions of life, which, being
expressed in Mr. Winterham's curious phraseology, need not be set down.


Alice had gone out after lunch to walk to Gledsmuir, seeking in the
bitter cold and the dawning storm the freshness which comes from
conflict. All the way down the glen the north wind had stung her cheeks
to crimson and blown stray curls about her ears; but when she left the
little market-place to return she found a fine snow powdering the earth,
and a haze creeping over the hills which threatened storm. A mile of
the weather delighted her, but after that she grew weary. When the fall
thickened she sought the shelter of a way-side cottage, with the purpose
of either sending to Glenavelin for a carriage or waiting for the
off-chance of a farmer's gig.

By four o'clock the snow showed no sign of clearing, but fell in the
same steady, noiseless drift. The mistress of the place made the girl
tea and dispatched her son to Glenavelin. But the errand would take
time, for the boy was small, and Alice, ever impatient, stood drumming
on the panes, watching the dreary weather with a dreary heart. The
goodwife was standing at the door on the look-out for a passing gig, and
her cry brought the girl to attention.

"I see a machine comin'! I think it's the Etterick dowg-cairt. Ye'll
get a drive in it."

Alice had gone to the door, and lo! through the thick fall a dog-cart
came into view driven by a tall young man. He recognized her at once,
and drew up.

"Hullo, Miss Wishart! Storm-stayed? Can I help you?"

The girl looked distrustfully at the very restless horse and he caught
her diffidence.

"Don't be afraid. 'What I don't know about 'oases ain't worth
knowin','" he quoted with a laugh; and leaning forward he prepared to
assist her to mount.

There was nothing for it but to accept, and the next minute she found
herself in the high seat beside him. Her wraps, sufficient for walking,
were scarcely sufficient for a snowy drive, and this, to his credit, the
young man saw. He unbuttoned his tweed shooting-cape, and gravely put
it round her. A curious dainty figure she made with her face all bright
with wind, framed in the great grey cloak.

The horse jibbed for a second and then swung along the wild road with
the vigorous ease of good blood skilfully handled. George was puzzling
his brain all the while as to how he should tell his companion something
which she ought to know. The strong drift and the turns of the road
claimed much of his attention, so it is possible that he blurted out his
news somewhat baldly.

"Do you know, Miss Wishart, that Lewis Haystoun and I are going off next
week? Abroad, you know."

The girl, who had been enjoying the ecstasy of swift motion through the
bitter weather, glanced up at him with pain in her eyes.

"Where?" she asked.

"To the Indian frontier. We are going to be special unpaid unofficial
members of the Intelligence Department."

She asked the old, timid woman's question about danger.

"It's where Lewis was before. Only, you see, things have got into a
mess thereabouts, and the Foreign Office has asked him to go out again.
By the by, you mustn't tell any one about this, for it's in strict
confidence."

The words were meaningless, and yet they sent a pang through her heart.
Had he no guess at her inmost feelings? Could he think that she would
talk to Mr. Stocks of a thing which was bound up for her with all the
sorrow and ecstasy of life?

He looked down and saw that her face had paled and that her mouth was
drawn with some emotion. A sudden gleam of light seemed to break in
upon him.

"Are you sorry?" he asked half-unwittingly.

For answer the girl turned her tragic eyes upon him, tried to speak, and
faltered. He cursed him-self for a fool and a brute, and whipped up an
already over-active horse, till it was all but unmanageable. It was a
wise move, for it absorbed his attention and gave the poor child at his
side a chance to recover her composure.

They came to Glenavelin gates and George turned in. "I had better drive
you to the door, in this charming weather," he said. The sight of the
pale little face had moved him to deep pity. He cursed his blindness,
the blindness of a whole world of fools, and at the same time, with the
impotence of the honest man, he could only wait and be silent.

At the door he stopped to unbutton his cape from her neck, and even in
his nervousness he felt the trembling of her body. She spoke rapidly
and painfully.

"I want you to take a message from me to--to--Lewis. Tell him I must
see him. Tell him to come to the Midburn foot, to-morrow in the
afternoon. Oh, I am ashamed to ask you, but you must tell him." And
then without thanks or good-bye she fled into the house.


CHAPTER XIX

THE BRIDGE OF BROKEN HEARTS

Listless leaves were tossing in the light wind or borne downward in the
swirl of the flooded Midburn, to the weary shallows where they lay,
beached high and sodden, till the frost nipped and shrivelled their
rottenness into dust. A bleak, thin wind it was, like a fine sour wine,
searching the marrow and bringing no bloom to the cheek. A light snow
powdered the earth, the grey forerunner of storms.

Alice stood back in the shelter of the broken parapet. The highway with
its modern crossing-place was some hundreds of yards up stream, but
here, at the burn mouth, where the turbid current joined with the cold,
glittering Avelin, there was a grass-grown track, and an ancient,
broken-backed bridge. There were few passers on the high-road, none on
this deserted way; but the girl in all her loneliness shrank back into
the shadow. In these minutes she endured the bitter mistrust, the sore
hesitancy, of awaiting on a certain but unknown grief.

She had not long to wait, for Lewis came down the Avelin side by a
bypath from Etterick village. His alert gait covered his very real
confusion, but to the girl he seemed one who belonged to an alien world
of cheerfulness. He could not know her grief, and she regretted her
coming.

His manners were the same courteous formalities. The man was torn with
emotion, and yet he greeted her with a conventional ease.

"It was so good of you, Miss Wishart, to give me a chance to come and
say good-bye. My going is such a sudden affair, that I might have had
no time to come to Glenavelin, but I could not have left without seeing
you."

The girl murmured some indistinct words. "I hope you will have a good
time and come back safely," she said, and then she was tongue-tied.

The two stood before each other, awkward and silent--two between whom no
word of love had ever been spoken, but whose hearts were clamouring at
the iron gates of speech.

Alice's face and neck were dyed crimson, as the impossible position
dawned on her mind. No word could break down the palisade, of form.
Lewis, his soul a volcano, struggled for the most calm and inept words.
He spoke of the weather, of her father, of his aunt's messages.

Then the girl held out her hand.

"Good-bye," she said, looking away from him.

He held it for a second. "Good-bye, Miss Wishart," he said hoarsely.
Was this the consummation of his brief ecstasy, the end of months of
longing? The steel hand of fate was on him and he turned to leave.

He turned when he had gone three paces and came back. The girl was
still standing by the parapet, but she had averted her face towards the
wintry waters. His step seemed to fall on deaf ears, and he stood
beside her before she looked towards him.

Passion had broken down his awkwardness. He asked the old question with
a shaking voice. "Alice," he said, "have I vexed you?"

She turned to him a pale, distraught face, her eyes brimming over with
the sorrow of love, the passionate adventurous longing which claims true
hearts for ever.

He caught her in his arms, his heart in a glory of joy.

"Oh, Alice, darling," he cried. "What has happened to us? I love you,
I love you, and you have never given me a chance to say it."

She lay passive in his arms for one brief minute and then feebly drew
back.

"Sweetheart," he cried. "Sweetheart! For I will call you sweetheart,
though we never meet again. You are mine, Alice. We cannot help
ourselves."

The girl stood as in a trance, her eyes caught and held by his face.

"Oh, the misery of things," she said half-sobbing. "I have given my
soul to another, and I knew it was not mine to give. Why, oh why, did
you not speak to me sooner? I have been hungering for you and you never
came."

A sense of his folly choked him.

"And I have made you suffer, poor darling! And the whole world is out
of joint for us!"

The hopeless feeling of loss, forgotten for a moment, came back to him.
The girl was gone from him for ever, though a bridge of hearts should
always cross the chasm of their severance.

"I am going away," he said, "to make reparation. I have my repentance
to work out, and it will be bitterer than yours, little woman. Ours
must be an austere love."

She looked at him till her pale face flushed and a sad exultation woke
in her eyes.

"You will never forget?" she asked wistfully, confident of the answer.

"Forget!" he cried. "It is my only happiness to remember. I am going
away to be knocked about, dear. Wild, rough work, but with a man's
chances!"

For a moment she let another thought find harbour in her mind. Was the
past irretrievable, the future predetermined? A woman's word had an old
right to be broken. If she went to him, would not he welcome her
gladly, and the future might yet be a heritage for both?

The thought endured but a moment, for she saw how little simple was the
crux of her destiny. The two of them had been set apart by the fates;
each had salvation to work out alone; no facile union would ever join
them. For him there was the shaping of a man's path; for her the
illumination which only sorrows and parting can bring. And with the
thought she thought kindly of the man to whom she had pledged her word.
It was but a little corner of her heart he could ever possess; but
doubtless in such matters he was not ambitious.

Lewis walked by her side down the by-path towards Glenavelin. Tragedy
muffled in the garments of convention was there, not the old picturesque
Tragic with sword and cloak and steel for the enemy, but the silent
Tragic which pulls at the heart-strings.

"The summer is over," she said. "It has been a cruel summer, but very
bright."

"Romance with the jarring modern note which haunts us all to-day," he
said. "This upland country is confused with bustling politics, and
pastoral has been worried to death by sickness of heart. You cannot
find the old peaceful life without."

"And within?" she asked.

"That is for you and me to determine, dear. God grant it. I have found
my princess, like the man in the fairy-tale, but I may not enter the
kingdom."

"And the poor princess must sit and mope in her high stone tower? It is
a hard world for princesses."

"Hard for the knights, too, for they cannot come back and carry off
their ladies. In the old days it used to be so, but then simplicity has
gone out of life."

"And the princess waits and watches and cries herself to sleep?

"And the knight goes off to the World's End and never forgets."

They were at Glenavelin gates now, and stood silent against the moment
of parting. She flew to his arms, for a second his kisses were on her
lips, and then came the sundering. A storm of tears was in her heart,
but with dry eyes she said the words of good-bye. Meanwhile from the
hills came a drift of snow, and a dreary wind sang in the pines the
dirge of the dead summer, the plaint of long farewells.


PART II

CHAPTER XX

THE EASTERN ROAD

If you travel abroad in certain seasons you will find that a type
predominates among the travellers. From Dover to Calais, from Calais to
Paris, there is an unnatural eagerness on faces, an unrest in gait, a
disorder in dress which argues worry and haste. And if you inquire
further, being of a speculative turn, you will find that there is
something in the air. The papers, French and English, have ugly
headlines and mystic leaders. Disquiet is in the atmosphere, each man
has a solution or a secret, and far at the back sits some body of men
who know that a crisis is near and square their backs for it. The
journalist is sick with work and fancied importance; the diplomat's hair
whitens with the game which he cannot understand; the statesman, if he
be wise, is in fear, knowing the meaning of such movements, while, if he
be foolish, he chirps optimistically in his speeches and is applauded in
the press. There are grey faces at the seats of the money-changers, for
war, the scourge of small cords, seems preparing for the overturning of
their tables, and the castigation of their persons.

Lewis and George rang the bell in the Faubourg St. Honoré on a Monday
afternoon, and asked for Lord Rideaux. His lordship was out, but, if
they were the English gentlemen who had the appointment with M. Gribton,
Monsieur would be with them speedily.

Lewis looked about the heavily furnished ante-room with its pale yellow
walls and thick, green curtains, with the air of a man trying to recall
a memory. "I came over here with John Lambert, when his father had the
place. That was just after I left Oxford. Gad, I was a happy man then.
I thought I could do anything. They put me next to Madame de Ravignet
because of my French, and because old Ankerville declared that I ought
to know the cleverest woman in Europe. Séry, the man who was Premier
last year, came and wrung my hand afterwards, said my fortune was
assured because I had impressed the Ravignet, and no one had ever done
it before except Bismarck. Ugh, the place is full of ghosts Poor old
John died a year after, and here am I, far enough, God knows, from my
good intentions."

A servant announced "Monsieur Gribton," and a little grizzled man
hobbled in, leaning heavily on a stick. He wore a short beard, and in
his tanned face two clever grey eyes twinkled sedately. He shook hands
gravely when Lewis introduced George, but his eyes immediately returned
to the former's face.

"You look a fit pair," he said. "I am instructed to give you all the
help in my power, but I should like to know your game. It isn't sport
this time, is it, Haystoun? Logan is still talking about his week with
you. Well, well, we can do things at our leisure. I have letters to
write, and then it will be dinner-time, when we can talk. Come to the
club at eight, 'Cercle des Voyageurs,' corner of Rue Neuve de St.
Michel. I expect you belong, Haystoun; and anyway I'll be there."

He bowed them out with his staccato apologies, and the two returned to
their hotel to dress. Two hours later they found Gribton warming his
hands in the smoking-room of the Cercle, a fussy and garrulous
gentleman, eager for his dinner. He pointed out such people as he knew,
and was consumed with curiosity about the others. Lewis wandered about
the room before he sat down, shaking hands with several and nodding to
many.

"You seem to know the whole earth," said Gribton.

"I suppose that a world of acquaintance is the only reward of
slackness," Lewis said, laughing. "It's a trick I have. I never forget
a face and I honestly like to see people again."

George pulled his long moustache. "It's simply hideous the way one is
forgotten. It's all right for the busy people, for they shift their
sets with their fortune, but for drones like me it's the saddest thing
in life. Before we came away, Lewie, I went up for a day to Oxford to
see about some things, and stopped a night there. I haven't been down
long, and yet I knew nobody at the club except the treasurer, and he had
nothing to say to me except to ask after you. I went to dinner with the
dons at the high table, and I nearly perished of the blues. Little
Riddell chirped about my profession, and that bounder Jackson, who was
of our year, pretended that he had been your bosom friend. I got so
bored that I left early and wandered back to the club. Somebody was
making a racket in our old rooms in the High, windows open, you know,
and singing. I stopped to look at them, and then they started, 'Willie
brewed a peck o' maut,' and, 'pon my soul, I had to come away. Couldn't
stand it. It reminded me so badly of you and Arthur and old John
Lambert, and all the honest men that used to be there. It was
infernally absurd that I should have got so sentimental, but that wasn't
the worst of it. For I met Tony and he made me come round to a dinner,
and there I found people I didn't know from Adam drinking the old toasts
we started. Gad, they had them all. 'Las Palmas,' 'The Old Guard,'
'The Wandering Scot,' and all the others. It made me feel as low as an
owl, and when I got back to the club and saw poor old John's photograph
on the wall, I tell you I went to bed in the most wretched melancholy."

Lewis stared open-mouthed at George, the irrepressible, in this new
attitude. He, as the hardened traveller, had had little more than a
decent pang of home-sickness. His regret was far deeper and more real
than the sentimental article of commerce, and he could afford to be
almost gay while George sat in the depths.

"I'm coming home, and I'm not happy; you young men are going out, and
you have got the blues. There's no pleasing weak humanity. I say,
Haystoun, who's that old man?" Gribton's jovial looks belied his words.

Lewis mentioned a name for his host's benefit. The room was emptying
rapidly, for the Cercle dined early.

"Now for business," said Gribton, when a waiter had brought the game
course, and they sat in the midst of a desert of linen and velvet. "I
have given the thing up, but I spent twenty of my best years at Bardur.
So, as I am instructed to do all in my power to aid you, I am ready.
First, is it sport?

"Partly," said George, but Lewis's head gave denial.

"Because, if it is, I am not the best man. Well, then, is it
geographical? For if it is, there is much to be done."

"Partly," said Lewis.

"Then I take it that the residue is political. You are following the
popular avenue to polities, I suppose. Leave the 'Varsity very raw,
knock about in an unintelligent way for three or four years on some
frontier, then come home, go into the House, and pose as a specialist in
foreign affairs. I should have thought you had too much humour for
that."

"Only, you see, I have been there before. I am merely going back upon
my tracks to make sure. I go purely as an adventurer, hoping to pick up
some valuable knowledge, but prepared to fail."

Gribton helped himself to champagne. "That's better. Now I know your
attitude, we can talk like friends. Better come to the small
smoking-room. They've got a '51 brandy here which is beyond words.
Have some for a liqueur."

In the smoking-room Gribton fussed about coffee and cigars for many
minutes ere he settled down. Then, when he could gaze around and see
his two guests in deep armchairs, each smoking and comfortable, he
returned to his business.

"I don't mind telling you a secret," he said, "or rather it's only a
secret here, for once you get out there you will find 'Gribton's view,'
as they call it, well enough known and very much laughed at. I've
always been held up to ridicule as an alarmist about that Kashmir
frontier, and especially about that Bardur country. Take the whole
province. It's well garrisoned on the north, but below that it is all
empty and open. The way into the Punjab is as clear as daylight for a
swift force, and the way to the Punjab is the way to India."

Lewis rose and went to a rack on the wall. "Do you mind if I get down
maps? These French ones are very good." He spread a sheet of canvas on
the table, thereby confounding all Gribton's hospitable manoeuvring.

"There," said Gribton, his eyes now free from drowsiness, and clear and
bright, "that's the road I fear."

"But these three inches are unknown," said Lewis. "I have been myself
as far as these hills."

Gribton looked sharply up. "You don't know the place as I know it.
I've never been so far, but I know the sheep-skinned devils who come
across from Turkestan. I tell you that place isn't the impenetrable
craggy desert that the Government of India thinks it. There's a road
there of some sort, and if you're worth your salt you'll find it out."

"I know," said Lewis. "I am going to try."

"There's another thing. For the last three years all that north part of
Kashmir, and right away south-west to the Punjab borders, has been
honoured with visits from plausible Russian gentlemen who may come down
by the ordinary caravan routes, or, on the other hand, may not. They
turn up quite suddenly with tooth-brushes and dressing-cases, and they
can't have come from the south. They fool around in Bardur, and then go
down to Gilgit, and, I suppose, on to the Punjab. They've got excellent
manners, and they hang about the clubs and give dinners and charm the
whole neighbourhood. Logan is their bosom friend, and Thwaite declares
that their society reconciles him to the place. Then they go away, and
the place keeps on the randan for weeks after."

"Do you know a man called Marker by any chance?" Lewis asked.

Gribton looked curiously at the speaker. "Have you actually heard about
him? Yes, I know him, but not very well, and I can't say I ever cared
for him. However, he is easily the most popular man in Bardur, and I
daresay is a very good fellow. But you don't call him Russian. I
thought he was sort of half a Scotsman."

"Very likely he is," said Lewis. "I happen to have heard a good deal
about him. But what ails you at him?"

"Oh, small things," and the man laughed. "You know I am getting elderly
and cranky, and I like a man to be very fair and four-square. I confess
I never got to the bottom of the chap. He was a capital sportsman, good
bridge-player, head like a rock for liquor, and all that; but I'm hanged
if he didn't seem to me to be playing some sort of game. Another thing,
he seemed to me a terribly cold-blooded devil. He was always slapping
people on the back and calling them 'dear old fellows,' but I happened
to see a small interview once between him and one of his servants.
Perhaps I ought not to mention it, but the thing struck me unpleasantly.
It was below the club verandah, and nobody happened to be about except
myself, who was dozing after lunch. Marker was rating a servant in some
Border tongue--Chil, it sounded like; and I remember wondering how he
could have picked it up. I saw the whole thing through a chink in the
floor, and I noticed that the servant's face was as grey as a brown
hillman's can be. Then the fellow suddenly caught his arm and twisted
it round, the man's face working with pain, though he did not dare to
utter a sound. It was an ugly sight, and when I caught a glimpse of
Marker's face, 'pon my soul, those straight black eyebrows of his gave
him a most devilish look."

"What's he like to look at?" George asked.

"Oh, he's rather tall, very straight, with a sort of military carriage,
and he has one of those perfect oval faces that you sometimes see. He
has most remarkable black eyes and very neat, thin eyebrows. He is the
sort of man you'd turn round to look at if you once passed him in the
street; and if you once saw him smile you'd begin to like him. It's the
prettiest thing I've ever seen."

"I expect I'll run across him somewhere," said Lewis, "and I want badly
to know him. Would you mind giving me an introduction?"

"Charmed!" said Gribton. "Shall I write it now?" And sitting down at a
table he scribbled a few lines, put them in an envelope, and gave it to
Lewis.

"You are pretty certain to know him when you see him, so you can give
him that line. You might run across him anywhere from Hyderabad to
Rawal Pinch, and in any case you'll hear word of him in Bardur. He's
the man for your purpose; only, as I say, I never liked him. I suspect
a loop somewhere."

"What are Logan and Thwaite like?" Lewis asked.

"Easy-going, good fellows. Believe in God and the British Government,
and the inherent goodness of man. I am rather the other way, so they
call me a cynic and an alarmist."

"But what do you fear?" said George. "The place is well garrisoned."

"I fear four inches in that map of unknown country," said Gribton
shortly. "The people up there call it a 'God-given rock-wall,' and of
course there is no force to speak of just near it. But a tribe of
devils incarnate, who call themselves the Bada-Mawidi, live on its
skirts, and there must be a road through it. It isn't the caravan
route, which goes much farther east and is plain enough. But I know
enough of the place to know that every man who comes over the frontier
to Bardur does not come by the high-road."

"But what could happen? Surely Bardur is strongly garrisoned enough to
block any secret raid."

"It isn't bad in its way, if the people were not so slack and easy.
They might rise to scratch, but, on the other hand, they might not, and
once past Bardur you have the open road to India, if you march quick
enough."

"Then you have no man sufficiently adventurous there to do a little
exploring?"

"None. They care only about shooting, and there happens to be little in
those rocks. Besides, they trust in God and the Government of India. I
didn't, so I became unpopular, and was voted a bore. But the work is
waiting for you young men."

Gribton rose, yawned, and stretched himself. "Shall I tell you any
more?"

"I don't think so," said Lewis, smiling; "I fancy I understand, and I am
sure we are obliged to you. Hadn't we better have a game?"

They went to the billiard-room and played two games of a hundred up,
both of which George, who had the idler's knack in such matters, won
with ease. Gribton played so well that he became excessively
good-humoured.

"I almost wish I was going out again if I had you two as company. We
don't get the right sort out there. Our globe-trotters all want to show
their cleverness, or else they are merely fools. You will find it
miserably dull. Nothing but bad claret and cheap champagne at the
clubs, a cliquey set of English residents, and the sort of stock sport
of which you tire in a month. That's what you may expect our frontier
towns to be like."

"And the neighbourhood?" said Lewis, with lifted eyebrows.

"Oh, the neighbourhood is wonderful enough; but our people there are too
slack and stale to take advantage of it. It is a peaceful frontier, you
know, and men get into a rut as easily there as elsewhere. The
country's too fat and wealthy, and people begin to forget the skeleton
up among the rocks in the north."

"What are the garrisons like?"

"Good people, but far too few for a serious row, and just sufficiently
large to have time hang on their hands. Our friends the Bada-Mawidi now
and then wake them up. I see from the _Temps_ that a great stirring of
the tribes in the Southern Pamirs is reported. I expect that news came
overland through Russia. It's the sort of canard these gentry are
always getting up to justify a massing of troops on the Amu Daria in
order that some new governor may show his strategic skill. I daresay
you may find things a little livelier than I found them."

As they went towards the Faubourg St. Honoré a bitter Paris
north-easter had begun to drift a fine powdered snow in their eyes.
Gribton shivered and turned up the collar of his fur coat. "Ugh, I
can't stand this. It makes me sick to be back. Thank your stars that
you are going to the sun and heat, and out of this hideous grey
weather."

They left him at the Embassy, and turned back to their hotel.

"He's a useful man," said Lewis, "he has given us a cue; life will be
pretty well varied out there for you and me, I fancy."

Scrambling past Menehwehna, who never spoke harshly to them, and paying
no heed to their mother's scolding, they ran out into the snow to carry
the news to the other lodges.

"Our Netawis has found bear!"
"What news is this?" asked some of the young men who lived in a
lodge apart--the bachelors' lodge--gathering round the doorway.
"Seeu-kwa, look to it that your children do not grow up to be little
liars."
Now John, surprised to find his news so important, had turned to Azoka
with a puzzled smile. The firelight which danced on his face danced also
on the long bead necklace heaving like a snake with the rise and
fall of her bosom.

He stared down at it, and Azoka--poor girl--felt his wrist trembling
under her touch; but it was with the thought of another woman.

She caught her hand away; and John, looking up, saw a young Indian,
Ononwe by name, watching him gloomily from the doorway.

"Ask Netawis to tell the story," said Menehwehna. So John told it again,
and added that it had been difficult to call the dogs away from the
tree.

"But about the bear I say nothing; that is Menehwehna's talk.
I only tell you what I saw."
"The wind has fallen," said one, "and soon the moon will be up.
Let us go and prove this tale of Netawis."
Meshu-kwa opposed this, calling it folly. "We have no axes heavy enough
for tree-cutting," she said; not giving her real reason, which was
that she came of a family which claimed descent from a bear.
When they mocked at her she said, "Also--why should I hide it?--there
came to me an evil dream last night."
"This is the first that I have heard of your evil dream," answered
Menehwehna, and gave order that after supper Netawis should lead the
party to the tree, promising that he himself would follow as soon as the
sickness left him.

At moonrise, therefore, they set out--men and women together, and
even the small children.

But Menehwehna called Azoka back from the door of the lodge.

"My daughter," he asked, they two being left alone, "has Ononwe a cause
of quarrel against Netawis?"
"They are good friends," Azoka answered innocently. "Ononwe never speaks
of Netawis but to praise. Surely my father has heard him?"
"That is returning a ball I never flung," her father said, fixing grave
eyes on her, under which she flinched. "I am thinking that the face
of Netawis troubles the clear water that once was between you and Ononwe.
Yet you tell me that Ononwe praises him. Sit down, therefore, and hear
this tale."

Azoka looked rebellious; but no one in his own household disobeyed
Menehwehna--or out of it, except at peril.

"There was a man of our nation once, a young man, and good-looking as
Ononwe; so handsome that all the village called him the Beau-man.

This Beau-man fell deeply in love with a maiden called Mamondago-kwa,
who also was passably handsome; but she had no right to scorn him
as she did, both in private and openly, so that all the village
talked of his ill-success.

This talk so preyed on his mind that he fell ill, and when his friends
broke up their camp after a winter's hunting to return to the village,
he lay on his bed and would not stir, but declared he would remain and
die in the snow rather than look again on the face of her who
scorned him.

So at length they took down the lodge about him and went their ways,
leaving him to die.

"But when the last of them was out of sight this Beau-man arose and,
wandering over the ground where the camp had been, he gathered up all
kinds of waste that his comrades had left behind--scraps of cloth, beads,
feathers, bones and offal of meat, with odds and ends of chalk, soot,
grease, everything that he could pick out of the trodden snow.

Then, having heaped them together, he called on his guardian _manitou_,
and together they set to work to make a man.
They stitched the rags into coat, _mitoses_ and mocassins, and
garnished them with beads and fringes; of the feathers they made a
head-dress, with a frontlet; and then, taking mud, they plastered
the offal and bones together and stuffed them tightly into the
garments.

The _manitou_ breathed once, and to the eye all their patchwork became
fresh and fine clothing.

The _manitou_ breathed twice, and life came into the figure, which the
Beau-man had been kneading into the shape of a handsome youth. 'Your
name,' said he, 'is Moowis, or the Muck-man, and by you I shall take
my revenge.'
"So he commanded the Muck-man to follow, and together they went
after the tracks of the tribe and came to the village.

All wondered at the Beau-man's friend and his fine new clothes; and,
indeed, this Moowis had a frank appearance that won all hearts. The
chief invited him to his lodge, and begged the Beau-man to come
too; he deserved no less for bringing so distinguished a guest.

The Beau-man accepted, but by and by began to repent of his deception
when he saw the Muck-man fed with deer tongue and the moose's hump
while he himself had to be content with inferior portions, and
when he observed further that Mamondago-kwa had no eyes for anyone
but the Muck-man, who began to prove himself a clever rogue.

The chief would have promoted Moowis to the first place by the fire;
but this (for it would have melted him) he modestly refused. He kept
shifting his place while he talked, and the girl thought him no
less vivacious than modest, and no more modest than brave, since
he seemed even to prefer the cold to the cheerful warmth of the
hearth.

The Beau-man attempted to talk; but the Muck-man had always a retort
at which the whole company laughed, until the poor fellow ran out of the
lodge in a fury of shame and rage. As he rose he saw the Muck-man rise,
with the assent of all, and cross over to the bridegroom's seat beside
Mamondago-kwa, who welcomed him as a modest maiden should when her
heart has been fairly won.

"So it happened--attend to me well, my daughter--that Mamondago-kwa
married a thing of rags and bones, put together with mud. But when
the dawn broke her husband rose up and took a bow and spear, saying,
'I must go on a journey.'

'Then I will go with you,' said his bride.
'My journey is too long for you,' said the Muck-man. 'Not so,'
answered she; 'there is no journey that I could not take beside you,
no toil that I could not share for love of you.' He strode forth,
and she followed him at a distance; and the Beau-man, who had kept
watch all night outside their lodge, followed also at a distance,
unseen.

All the way along the rough road Mamondago-kwa called to her husband;
but he went forward rapidly, not turning his head, and she could
not overtake him. Soon, as the sun rose, he began to melt.
Mamondago-kwa did not see the gloss go out of his clothes, nor his
handsome features change back again into mud and snow and filth.

But still as she followed she came on rags and feathers and scraps
of clothing, fluttering on bushes or caught in the crevices of the
rocks.

She passed his mittens, his mocassins, his _mitases_, his coat, his
plume of feathers. At length, as he melted, his footprints grew
fainter, until she lost even his track on the snow.
'Moowis! Moowis!'

she cried; but now there was none to answer her, for the Muck-man had
returned to that out of which he was made."
Menehwehna ceased and looked at his daughter steadily.

"And did the Beau-man find her and fetch her back?" asked Azoka.

"The story does not say, to my knowledge; but it may be that Ononwe
could tell you."

Azoka stepped to the moonlit doorway and gazed out over the snow.

"And yet you love Netawis?"

she asked, turning her head.

"So much that I keep him in trust for his good, against a day when he
will go and never return. But that is not a maiden's way of loving, unless
maidens have changed since I went a-courting them."
Netawis having led them to the tree, the young men fell to work upon it
at once.

It measured well over ten fathoms in girth; and by daybreak, their axes
being light, they had hewed it less than half-way through. After a short
rest they attacked it again, but the sun was close upon setting
when the tree fell--with a rending scream which swelled into a roar
so human-like that the children ran with one accord and caught hold
of their elders' hands.

John, with Seeu-kwa's small boys clinging to him, stood about thirty
paces from the fallen trunk. Two or three minutes passed, and he wondered
why the men did not begin to jeer at him for having found them a mare's
nest. For all was quiet. He wondered also why none of them approached
the tree to examine it.

"I shall be the mock of the camp from this moment," he thought, and said
aloud, "Let go of my hands, little ones; there is no more danger."
But they clung to him more tightly than ever; for a great cry went up.
From the opening by the fork of the trunk a dark body rolled lazily
out upon the snow--an enormous she-bear.

She uncurled and gathered herself up on all fours, blinking and shaking
her head as though the fall had left her ears buzzing, and so began to
waddle off.

Either she had not seen the crowd of men and women, or perhaps she
despised it.

"Ononwe! Ononwe!" shouted the Indians; for Ononwe, gun in hand, had
been posted close to the opening.

He half-raised his gun, but lowered it again.

"Netawis found her," he said quietly. "Let Netawis shoot her."
He stepped back towards John who, almost before he knew, found the gun
thrust into his hands; for the children had let go their
clasp.

Amid silence he lifted it and took aim, wondering all the while why
Ononwe had done this. The light was fading. To be sure he could not
miss the bear's haunches, now turned obliquely to him; but to hit her
without killing would be scarcely less dishonouring than to miss
outright, and might be far more dangerous. His hand and forearm trembled
too--with the exertion of hewing, or perhaps from the strain of
holding the children.

Why had he been fool enough to take the gun?

He foretasted his disgrace even as he pulled the trigger.

It seemed to him that as the smoke cleared the bear still walked forward
slowly. But a moment later she turned her head with one loud snap
of the jaws and lurched over on her side. Her great fore-pads smote
twice on the powdery snow, then were still.

He had killed her, then; and, as he learned from the applause, by
an expert's shot, through the spine at the base of the skull.

John had aimed at this merely at a guess, knowing nothing of bears or
their vulnerable points, and in this ignorance neglecting a far easier
mark behind the pin of the shoulder.

But more remained to wonder at; for the beast being certified for dead,
Meshu-kwa ran forward and kneeling in the snow beside it began to
fondle and smooth the head, calling it by many endearing names.
She seated herself presently, drew the great jaws on to her lap and
spoke into its ear, beseeching its forgiveness.

"O bear!" she cried for all to hear, "O respected grandmother! You
yourself saw that this was a stranger's doing. Believe not that
Meshu-kwa is guilty of your death, or any of her tribe! It was a
stranger that disturbed your sleep, a stranger who fired upon you with
this unhappy result!"
The men stood around patiently until this propitiation was ended; and
then fell to work to skin the bear, while Meshu-kwa went off
with her daughters to the lodges, to prepare the cooking pots.

In passing John she gave him a glance of no good will.

That night, as Azoka stood by a cauldron in which the bear's fat
bubbled, and the young men idled around the blaze, she saw Netawis
draw Ononwe aside into the darkness.

Being a quick-witted girl she promptly let slip her ladle into the fat,
as if by mischance, and ran to her father's lodge for another, followed
by Meshu-kwa's scolding voice.

The lodge had a back-exit towards the wall of the sandhill, where the
wind's eddy had swept a lane almost clear of snow; and Azoka pushed
her pretty head through the flap-way here in time to spy the dark
shadows of the pair before they disappeared behind the bachelor's
lodge.

Quietly as a pantheress she stole after them, smoothing out her footprints
behind her until she reached the trampled snow; and so, coming to the
angle of the bachelors' lodge, cowered listening.

"But suppose that I had missed my shot?" said the voice of Netawis.
"I tell you that my heart was as wax; and when the lock fell, I saw
nothing.

Why, what is the matter with you, Ononwe?"
"I thought you had led me here to quarrel with me," Ononwe answered
slowly, and Azoka held her breath.

"Quarrel, brother? Why should I quarrel with you? It was a risk, as I
am telling you; but you trusted me, and I brought you here to thank
you that in your good heart you gave the shot up to me."

"But it was not my good heart." Ononwe's voice had grown hoarse.

"It was an evil thought in my head, and you will have to quarrel with me,
Netawis."

"That Ononwe is a good man," said Azoka to herself.

"I do not understand. Did you expect me, then, to miss?

Do not say, brother, that you gave me the gun _wishing_ me to miss and
be the mock of the camp!"
"Yes, and no. I thought, if you took the gun, it would not matter whether
you hit or missed."
"Why?"
"Are you so simple, Netawis? Or is it in revenge that you force me
to tell? . . . Yes, I have played you an evil trick, and by an evil
tempting.

I saw you with Azoka. . . .

I gave you the gun, thinking, 'If he misses, the whole camp will mock
him, and a maid turns from a man whom others mock.

But if he should kill the bear, he will have to reckon with Meshu-kwa.
Meshu-kwa fears ill-luck, and she will think more than twice before
receiving a son-in-law who has killed her grandmother the bear.'"
"I will marry Netawis," said Azoka to herself, shutting her teeth hard.
And yet she could not feel angry with Ononwe as she ought.
But it seemed that neither was Netawis angry; for he answered
with one of those strange laughs of his.

She had never been able to understand them, but she had never heard
one that sounded so unhappy as did this.

"My brother," said Netawis--and his voice was gentle and bitterly
sorrowful--"if you did this in guile, I have shot better indeed
than you to-day.

As for Meshu-kwa, I must try to be on good terms with her again;
and as for Azoka, she is a good girl, and thinks as little of me
as I of her. Last night when you saw us . . . I remember that I looked
down on her and something reminded me . . . of one . . ." He leaned a
hand against a pole of the lodge and gripped it as the anguish came on
him and shook him in the darkness. "Damn!" cried John a Cleeve, with a
sob.

"Was that her name?" asked Ononwe gravely, hardly concealing the relief
in his voice.

But Azoka did not hear Netawis' answer as she crept back, smoothing the
snow over her traces.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE LODGES IN THE SNOW.

The fat lay six inches deep on the bear's ribs; and, being boiled
down, filled six porcupine skins.

"Said I not that Netawis would bring us good luck?"

demanded Menehwehna.

But Meshu-kwa claimed the head of her ancestress, and set it up on a
scaffold within the lodge, spreading a new blanket beneath it and
strewing tobacco-leaf in front of its nose.

As though poor Azoka had not enough misery, her mother took away her
trinkets to decorate the bear, and forced her to smear her pretty,
ochred face with cinders.
Then for a whole day the whole family sat and fasted; and Azoka
hated fasting. But next morning she and Seeu-kwa swept out the lodge,
making all tidy.

Pipes were lit, and Menehwehna, after blowing tobacco-smoke into the
bear's nostrils, began a long harangue on the sad necessity which lay
upon men to destroy their best friends.
His wife's eye being upon him, he made an excellent speech, though he
did not believe a word of it; but as a chief who had married the
daughter of a chief, he laid great stress upon her pedigree, belittling
his own descent from the _canicu_, or war eagle, with the easier
politeness because he knew it to be above reproach. When he had ended,
the family, Meshu-kwa included, seated themselves and ate of the
bear's flesh very heartily.

A few days later, they struck their camp and moved inland, for the
beaver were growing scarcer, and the heavy fall of snow hid their
houses and made it difficult to search the banks for washes.

But raccoon were plentiful at their new station, and easy to hunt.
Before the coming of the Cold Moon--which is January--John was set
to number the peltries, which amounted to three hundred odd; and
the scaffold, on which the dried venison hung out of reach of the
wolves, was a sight to gladden the heart.

Only the women grumbled when Menehwehna gave order to strike camp, for
theirs were the heaviest loads.

Azoka did not grumble. She could count now on Ononwe to help her with
her burden, since, like a sensible girl, she had long since made
up her quarrel with him and they were to be married in the spring
on their return to the village.

She had quite forgiven Netawis.
Hers was that delicious stage of love when the heart, itself so
happy, wants all the world to be happy too.

Once or twice John caught her looking at him with eyes a little
wistful in their gladness; he never guessed that she had overheard
his secret and pitied him, but dared not betray herself.

Ononwe, possessed with his new felicity, delighted to talk of
it whenever he and John hunted together.

Did it hurt?

Not often; and at the moment not much. But at night, when sleep would
not come, when John lay staring at the chink in the doorway beyond
which the northern lights flickered, then the wound would revive
and ache with the aching silence.

Once, only once, he had started out of sleep to feel his whole body
flooded with happiness; in his dream the curtains of the lodge had
parted and through them Diane had come to him.

Standing over his head she had shaken the snow from her cloak and from
her hair, and the scattered flakes had changed into raindrops, and
the raindrops into singing birds, and the lodge into a roof of
sunlit boughs, breaking into leaf with a scent of English hawthorn,
as she stretched out her hands and knelt and he drew her to his
heart.

Her cheek was cold from her long journey; but a warm breeze played beneath
the boughs, and under her falling hair against his shoulder her small
hand stole up and touched his silver armlets. Nay, surely that
touch was too real for any dream. . . .

He had sprung up and pulled aside the curtain; but she was gone.
His eyes searched across a waste where only the snow-wraiths danced,
and far to the north the Aurora flickered with ribbons of ghostly
violet.

Would she come again? Yes, surely, under the stars and across the folds
and hollows of the snow, that vision would return, disturbing no
huddled wild creature, waking no sleeper in the lodge; would lift the
curtain and stretch out both hands and be gathered to him.
Though it came but once in a year he could watch for it by night,
live for it by day.

But by day he knew his folly. He was lost, and in forgetting lay his
only peace. He never once accused his fortune nor railed against a God
he could not believe in.

He had come to disaster through his own doubts; himself had been the
only real enemy, and that sorry self must be hidden and buried out of
sight.

On the whole he was burying it successfully. He liked these Ojibways,
and had unlearnt his first disgust of their uncleanly habits, though
as yet he could not imitate them.

He had quite unlearnt his old loathing of Menehwehna for the sergeant's
murder.
Menehwehna was a fine fellow, a chief too, respected among all the nations
west of Fort Niagara.

John's surprise had begun at Fort Rouille, where, on Menehwehna's word
of credit only, the Tobacco Indians had fetched out paint and clothes
to disguise him, and had smuggled him, asking no questions, past the
fort and up through the Lake aux Claies to Lake Huron. At Michilimackinac
a single speech from Menehwehna had won his welcome from the tribe;
and they were hunting now on the borders of the Ottawas through the
favour of Menehwehna's friendship with the Ottawa chief at l'Arbre
Croche.

John saw that the other Indians considered him fortunate in
Menehwehna's favour, and if he never understood the full extent of
the condescension, at least his respect grew for one who was at
once so kingly and so simple, who shared his people's hardships,
and was their master less by rank than by wisdom in council, skill
of hand, and native power to impress and rule.

Of the deer especially Menehwehna was a mighty hunter; and in February
the wealth of the camp increased at a surprising rate.
For at this season the snow becomes hard enough to bear the hunter
and his dogs, but the sharp feet of the deer break through its crust and
his legs are cut to the bone. Often a hunting party would kill a dozen
stags in two or three hours, and soon the camp reckoned up five
thousand pounds of dried venison, all of which had to be carried
back seventy miles to the shore of the lake near l'Arbre Croche, where
the canoes had been left.

Early in March the women began to prepare the bundles, and in the second
week the return began, all starting at daybreak with as much as they
could carry, and marching until noon, when they built a scaffold,
piled their loads upon it, and returned to the camp for more. When
all had been carried forward one stage, the lodge itself was removed,
and so, stage by stage, they brought their wealth down to the coast. As
they neared it they fell in with other lodges of Ojibways,
mostly from Michilimackinac, gathering for the return voyage up the
lake.

Having recovered and launched their canoes, which had lain hidden
among the sandhills, they loaded up and coasted cheerfully homewards
by way of La Grande Traverse and l'Arbre Croche, and on the last
day of April landed under the French fort of Mackinac, which looked
across the strait to Cap Saint-Ignace.

A dozen traders were here awaiting them; and with these Menehwehna first
settled out of the common fund for guns, powder, and stores supplied
on credit for the winter's hunting. He then shared the residue among
the camp, each hunter receiving the portion fixed by custom; and John
found himself the owner of one hundred and twenty beaver skins,
fifty raccoon, and twelve otter, besides fifty dubious francs in
cash.

The bear skin, which also fell to his share, he kept for his
wedding gift to Ononwe.

Twenty pounds of beaver bought a couple of new shirts; another
twenty a blanket; and a handsome pair of scarlet _mitases_, fashionably
laced with ribbon, cost him fifteen.

Out of what remained he offered to pay Menehwehna for his first outfit,
but received answer that he had amply discharged this debt by bringing
good luck to the camp.

Under Menehwehna's advice, therefore, he spent his gains in powder
and ball, fishing-lines, tobacco, and a new lock for his gun.

"And I am glad," said Menehwehna, "that you consulted me to-day, for
to-night I shall drink too much rum."
So indeed he did. That night his people--women and men--lay around the
fort in shameless intoxication.

It pleased John to observe that Azoka drank nothing; but on the other
hand she made no attempt to restrain her lover, who, having stupefied
himself with rum, dropped asleep with his head on her lap."You were within an ace of meeting one of the cleverest men
living, a cheerful being in whom the Foreign Office is more interested
than in any one else in the world." Wratislaw had never been in the
habit of talking without good authority. This Marker must be indeed a
gentleman of parts.

Then conversation dwindled. Lewis, his mind torn between bitter
memories and the pressing necessities of his mission, lent a stupid ear
to Mrs. Logan's mild complaints, her gossip about Bardur, her eager
questions about home. George manfully took his place, and by a
fortunate clumsiness steered the flow of the lady's talk from Glenavelin
and the Wisharts. Lewis spoke now and then, when appealed to, but he
was busy thinking out his own problem. On the morrow night he should
meet Marker, and his work would reveal itself. Meanwhile he was in the
dark, the flimsiest adventurer on the wildest of errands. This easy,
settled place, these Englishmen whose minds held fast by polo and games,
these English ladies who had no thought beyond little social devices to
relieve the monotony of the frontier, all seemed to make a mockery of
his task. He had fondly imagined himself going to a certainty of toil
and danger; to his vexation this certainty seemed to be changing into
the most conventional of visits to the most normal of places. But
to-morrow he should see Marker; and his hope revived at the prospect.

"It is so pleasant seeing two fresh fellow-countrymen," Mrs. Logan was
saying. "Do you know, you two people look quite different from our men
up here. They are all so dried up and tired out. Our complexions are
all gone, and our eyes have got that weariness of the sun in them which
never goes away even when we go home again. But you two look quite keen
and fresh and enthusiastic. You mustn't mind compliments from an old
woman, but I wish our own people looked as nice as you. You will make
us all homesick."

A native servant entered, more noiseless and more dignified than any
English footman, and announced another visitor. Lewis lifted his head,
and saw the lady rise, smiling, to greet a tall man who had come in with
the frankness of a privileged acquaintance. "How do you do, Mr.
Marker?" he heard. "I am so glad to see you. We didn't dare to expect
you till to-morrow. May I introduce two English friends, Mr. Haystoun
and Mr. Winterham?"

And so the meeting came about in the simplest way. Lewis found himself
shaking hands cordially with a man who stood upright, quite in the
English fashion, and smiled genially on the two strangers. Then he took
the vacant chair by Mrs. Logan, and answered the lady's questions with
the ease and kindliness of one who knows and likes his fellow-creatures.
He deplored Logan's absence, grew enthusiastic about the dance, and
produced from a pocket certain sweetmeats, not made in Kashmir, for the
two children. Then he turned to George and asked pleasantly about the
journey. How did they find the roads from Gilgit? He hoped they would
get good sport, and if he could be of any service, would they command
him? He had heard of Lewis's former visit, and, of course, he had read
his book. The most striking book of travel he had seen for long. Of
course he didn't agree with certain things, but each man for his own
view; and he should like to talk over the matter with Mr. Haystoun.
Were they staying long? At Galetti's of course? By good luck that was
also his headquarters. And so he talked pleasingly, in the style of a
lady's drawing-room, while Lewis, his mind consumed with interest, sat
puzzling out the discords in his face.

"Do you know, Mr. Marker, we were talking about you before you came in.
I was telling Mr. Haystoun that I thought you were half Scotch. Mr.
Haystoun, you know, lives in Scotland."

"Do you really? Then I am a thousand times delighted to meet you, for I
have many connections with Scotland. My grandmother was a Scotswoman,
and though I have never been in your beautiful land, yet I have known
many of your people. And, indeed, I have heard of one of your name who
was a friend of my father's--a certain Mr. Haystoun of Etterick."

"My father," said Lewis.

"Ah, I am so pleased to hear. My father and he met often in Paris, when
they were attached to their different embassies. My father was in the
German service."

"Your mother was Russian, was she not?" Lewis asked tactlessly, impelled
by he knew not what motive.

"Ah, how did you know?" Mr. Marker smiled in reply, with the slightest
raising of the eyebrows. "I have indeed the blood of many nationalities
in my veins. Would that I were equally familiar with all nations, for I
know less of Russia than I know of Scotland. We in Germany are their
near neighbours, and love them, as you do here, something less than
ourselves."

He talked English with that pleasing sincerity which seems inseparable
from the speech of foreigners, who use a purer and more formal idiom
than ourselves. George looked anxiously towards Lewis, with a question
in his eyes, but finding his companion abstracted, he spoke himself.

"I have just arrived," said the other simply; "but it was from a
different direction. I have been shooting in the hills, getting cool
air into my lungs after the valleys. Why, Mrs. Logan, I have been down
to Rawal Pindi since I saw you last, and have been choked with the sun.
We northerners do not take kindly to glare and dust."

"But you are an old hand here, they tell me. I wish you'd show me the
ropes, you know. I'm very keen, but as ignorant as a babe. What sort
of rifles do they use here? I wish you'd come and look at my
ironmongery." And George plunged into technicalities.

When Lewis rose to leave, following unwillingly the convention which
forbids a guest to stay more than five minutes after a new visitor has
arrived, Marker crossed the room with them. "If you're not engaged for
to-night, Mr. Haystoun, will you do me the honour to dine with me? I
am alone, and I think we might manage to find things to talk about."
Lewis accepted gladly, and with one of his sweetest smiles the gentleman
returned to Mrs. Logan's side.


CHAPTER XXIII

THE DINNER AT GALETTI'S

"I Have heard of you so much," Mr. Marker said, "and it was a lucky
chance which brought me to Bardur to meet you." They had taken their
cigars out to the verandah, and were drinking the strong Persian coffee,
with a prospect before them of twinkling town lights, and a mountain
line of rock and snow. Their host had put on evening clothes and wore a
braided dinner-jacket which gave the faintest touch of the foreigner to
his appearance. At dinner he had talked well of a score of things. He
had answered George's questions on sport with the readiness of an
expert; he had told a dozen good stories, and in an easy, pleasant way
he had gossiped of books and places, people and politics. His knowledge
struck both men as uncanny. Persons of minute significance in
Parliament were not unknown to him, and he was ready with a theory or an
explanation on the most recondite matters. But coffee and cigars found
him a different man. He ceased to be the enthusiast, the omnivorous and
versatile inquirer, and relapsed into the ordinary good fellow, who is
no cleverer than his neighbours.

"We're confoundedly obliged to you," said George. "Haystoun is keen
enough, but when he was out last time he seems to have been very slack
about the sport."

"Sort of student of frontier peoples and politics, as the newspapers
call it. I fancy that game is, what you say, 'played out' a little
nowadays. It is always a good cry for alarmist newspapers to send up
their circulation by, but you and I, my friend, who have mixed with
serious politicians, know its value."

George nodded. He liked to be considered a person of importance, and he
wanted the conversation to get back to ibex.

"I speak as of a different nation," Marker said, looking towards Lewis.
"But I find the curse of modern times is this mock-seriousness. Some
centuries ago men and women were serious about honour and love and
religion. Nowadays we are frivolous and sceptical about these things,
but we are deadly in earnest about fads. Plans to abolish war, schemes
to reform criminals, and raise the condition of woman, and supply the
Bada-Mawidi with tooth-picks are sure of the most respectful treatment
and august patronage."

"I agree," said Lewis. "The Bada-Mawidi live there?" And he pointed to
the hill line.

Marker nodded. He had used the name inadvertently as an illustration,
and he had no wish to answer questions on the subject.

"A troublesome tribe, rather?" asked Lewis, noticing the momentary
hesitation.

"In the past. Now they are quiet enough."

"But I understood that there was a ferment in the Pamirs. The other
side threatened, you know." He had almost said "your side," but checked
himself.

"Ah yes, there are rumours of a rising, but that is further west. The
Bada-Mawidi are too poor to raise two swords in the whole tribe. You
will come across them if you go north, and I can recommend them as
excellent beaters."

"Is the north the best shooting quarter?" asked Lewis with sharp eyes.
"I am just a little keen on some geographical work, and if I can join
both I shall be glad. Due north is the Russian frontier?

"Due north after some scores of the most precipitous miles in the world.
It is a preposterous country. I myself have been on the verge of it,
and know it as well as most. The geographical importance, too, is
absurdly exaggerated. It has never been mapped because there is nothing
about it to map, no passes, no river, no conspicuous mountain, nothing
but desolate, unvaried rock. The pass to Yarkand goes to the east, and
the Afghan routes are to the west. But to the north you come to a wall,
and if you have wings you may get beyond it. The Bada-Mawidi live in
some of the wretched nullahs. There is sport, of course, of a kind, but
not perhaps the best. I should recommend you to try the more easterly
hills."

The speaker's manner was destitute of all attempt to dissuade, and yet
Lewis felt in some remote way that this man was trying to dissuade him.
The rock-wall, the Bada-Mawidi, whatever it was, something existed
between Bardur and the Russian frontier which this pleasant gentleman
did not wish him to see.

"Our plans are all vague," he said, "and of course we are glad of your
advice."

"And I am glad to give it, though in many ways you know the place better
than I do. Your book is the work of a very clever and observant man, if
you will excuse my saying so. I was thankful to find that you were not
the ordinary embryo-publicist who looks at the frontier hills from
Bardur, and then rushes home and talks about invasion."

"You think there is no danger, then?"

"On the contrary, I honestly think that there is danger, but from a
different direction. Britain is getting sick, and when she is sick
enough, some people who are less sick will overwhelm her. My own
opinion is that Russia will be the people."

"But is not that one of the old cries that you object to?" and Lewis
smiled.

"It was; now it is ceasing to be a cry, and passing into a fact, or as
much a fact as that erroneous form of gratuity, prophecy, can be. Look
at Western Europe and you cannot disbelieve the evidence of your own
eyes. In France you have anarchy, the vulgarest frivolity and the
cheapest scepticism, joined with a sort of dull capacity for routine
work. Germany, the very heart of it eaten out with sentiment, either
the cheap military or the vague socialist brand. Spain and Italy
shadows, Denmark and Sweden farces, Turkey a sinful anachronism."

"And Britain?" George asked.

"My Scotch blood gives me the right to speak my mind," said the man,
laughing. "Honestly I don't find things much better in Britain. You
were always famous for a dogged common sense which was never tricked
with catch-words, and yet the British people seem to be growing nervous
and ingenuous. The cult of abstract ideals, which has been the curse of
the world since Adam, is as strong with you as elsewhere. The
philosophy of 'gush' is good enough in its place, but it is the devil in
politics."

"That is true enough," said Lewis solemnly. "And then you are losing
grip. A belief in sentiment means a disbelief in competence and
strength, and that is the last and fatalest heresy. And a belief in
sentiment means a foolish scepticism towards the great things of life.
There is none of the blood and bone left for honest belief. You hold
your religion half-heartedly. Honest fanaticism is a thing intolerable
to you. You are all mild, rational sentimentalists, and I would not
give a ton of it for an ounce of good prejudice." George and Lewis
laughed.

"And Russia?" they asked.

"Ah, there I have hope. You have a great people, uneducated and
unspoiled. They are physically strong, and they have been trained by
centuries of serfdom to discipline and hardships. Also, there is fire
smouldering somewhere. You must remember that Russia is the
stepdaughter of the East. The people are northern in the truest sense,
but they have a little of Eastern superstition. A rational, sentimental
people live in towns or market gardens, like your English country, but
great lonely plains and forests somehow do not agree with that sort of
creed. That slow people can still believe freshly and simply, and some
day when the leader arrives they will push beyond their boundaries and
sweep down on Western Europe, as their ancestors did thirteen hundred
years ago. And you have no walls of Rome to resist them, and I do not
think you will find a Charlemagne. Good heavens! What can your
latter-day philosophic person, who weighs every action and believes only
in himself, do against an unwearied people with the fear of God in their
hearts? When that day comes, my masters, we shall have a new empire,
the Holy Eastern Empire, and this rotten surface civilization of ours
will be swept off. It is always the way. Men get into the habit of
believing that they can settle everything by talk, and fancy themselves
the arbiters of the world, and then suddenly the great man arrives, your
Caesar or Cromwell, and clears out the talkers."

"I've heard something like that before. In fact, on occasions I have
said it myself. It's a pretty idea. How long do you give this
_Volkerwanderung_ to get started?"

"It will not be in our time," said the man sadly. "I confess I am
rather anxious for it to come off. Europe is a dull place at present,
given up to Jews and old women. But I am an irreclaimable wanderer, and
it is some time since I have been home. Things may be already
changing."

"Scarcely," said Lewis. "And meantime where is this Slav invasion going
to begin? I suppose they will start with us here, before they cross the
Channel?"

"Undoubtedly. But Britain is the least sick of the crew, so she may be
left in peace till the confirmed invalids are destroyed. At the best it
will be a difficult work. Our countrymen, you will permit the name, my
friends, have unexpected possibilities in their blood. And even this
India will be a hard nut to crack. It is assumed that Russia has but to
find Britain napping, buy a passage from the more northerly tribes, and
sweep down on the Punjab. I need not tell you how impossible such a
land invasion is. It is my opinion that when the time comes the attack
will be by sea from some naval base on the Persian Gulf. It is a mere
matter of time till Persia is the Tsar's territory, and then they may
begin to think about invasion."

"You think the northern road impossible! I suppose you ought to know."

"I do, and I have some reason for my opinion. I know Afghanistan and
Chitral as few Europeans know it."

"But what about Bardur, and this Kashmir frontier? I can understand the
difficulties of the Khyber, but this Kashmir road looks promising."

Marker laughed a great, good-humoured, tolerant, incredulous laugh. "My
dear sir, that's the most utter nonsense. How are you to bring an army
over a rock wall which a chamois hunter could scarcely climb? An
invading army is not a collection of winged fowl. I grant you Bardur is
a good starting-point if it were once reached. But you might as well
think of a Chinese as of a Russian invasion from the north. It would be
a good deal more possible, for there is a road to Yarkand, and
respectable passes to the north-east. But here we are shut off from the
Oxus by as difficult a barrier as the Elburz. Go up and see. There is
some shooting to be had, and you will see for yourself the sort of
country between here and Taghati."

"But people come over here sometimes."

"Yes, from the south, or by Afghanistan."

"Not always. What about the Korabaut Pass into Chitral? Ianoff and the
Cossacks came through it."

"That's true," said the man, as if in deep thought. "I had forgotten,
but the band was small and the thing was a real adventure."

"And then you have Gromchevtsky. He brought his people right down
through the Pamirs."

For a second the man's laughing ease deserted him. He leaned his head
forward and peered keenly into Lewis's face. Then, as if to cover his
discomposure, he fell into the extreme of bluff amusement. The
exaggeration was plain to both his hearers.

"Oh yes, there was poor old Gromchevtsky. But then you know he was what
you call 'daft,' and one never knew how much to believe. He had hatred
of the English on the brain, and he went about the northern valleys
making all sorts of wild promises on the part of the Tsar. A great
Russian army was soon to come down from the hills and restore the
valleys to their former owners. And then, after he had talked all this
nonsense, and actually managed to create some small excitement among the
tribesmen, the good fellow disappeared. No man knows where he went.
The odd thing is that I believe he has never been heard of again in
Russia to this day. Of course his mission, as he loved to call it, was
perfectly unauthorized, and the man himself was a creature of farce. He
probably came either by the Khyber or the Korabaut Pass, possibly even
by the ordinary caravan-route from Yarkand, but felt it necessary for
his mission's sake to pretend he had found some way through the rock
barrier. I am afraid I cannot allow him to be taken seriously."

Lewis yawned and reached out his hand for the cigars. "In any case it
is merely a question of speculative interest. We shall not fall just
yet, though you think so badly of us."

"You will not fall just yet," said Marker slowly, "but that is not your
fault. You British have sold your souls for something less than the
conventional mess of pottage. You are ruled in the first place by
money-bags, and the faddists whom they support to blind your eyes. If I
were a young man in your country with my future to make, do you know
what I would do? I would slave in the Stock Exchange. I would spend my
days and nights in the pursuit of fortune, and, by heaven, I would get
it. Then I would rule the market and break, crush, quietly and
ruthlessly, the whole gang of Jew speculators and vulgarians who would
corrupt a great country. Money is power with you, and I should attain
it, and use it to crush the leeches who suck our blood."

"Good man," said George, laughing. "That's my way of thinking. Never
heard it better put."

"I have felt the same," said Lewis. "When I read of 'rings' and
'corners' and 'trusts' and the misery and vulgarity of it all, I have
often wished to have a try myself, and see whether average brains and
clean blood could not beat these fellows on their own ground."

"Then why did you not?" asked Marker. "You were rich enough to make a
proper beginning."

"I expect I was too slack. I wanted to try the thing, but there was so
much that was repulsive that I never quite got the length of trying.
Besides, I have a bad habit of seeing both sides of a question. The
ordinary arguments seemed to me weak, and it was too much fag to work
out an attitude for oneself."

Marker looked sharply at Lewis, and George for a moment saw and
contrasted the two faces. Lewis's keen, kindly, humorous, cultured,
with strong lines ending weakly, a face over-bred, brave and finical;
the other's sharp, eager, with the hungry wolf-like air of ambition,
every line graven in steel, and the whole transfused, as it were, by the
fire of the eyes into the living presentment of human vigour.

It was the eternal contrast of qualities, and for a moment in George's
mind there rose a delight that two such goodly pieces of manhood should
have found a meeting-ground.

"I think, you know, that we are not quite so bad as you make out," said
Lewis quietly. "To an outsider we must appear on the brink of
incapacity, but then it is not the first time we have produced that
impression. You will still find men who in all their spiritual sickness
have kept something of that restless, hard-bitten northern energy, and
that fierce hunger for righteousness, which is hard to fight with.
Scores of people, who can see no truth in the world and are sick with
doubt and introspection and all the latter-day devils, have yet
something of pride and honour in their souls which will make them show
well at the last. If we are going to fall our end will not be quite
inglorious."

Marker laughed and rose. "I am afraid I must leave you now. I have to
see my servant, for I am off to-morrow. This has been a delightful
meeting. I propose that we drink to its speedy repetition."

They drank, clinking glasses in continental fashion, and the host shook
hands and departed.

"Good chap," was George's comment. "Put us up to a wrinkle or two, and
seemed pretty sound in his politics. I wish I could get him to come and
stop with me at home. Do you think we shall run across him again?"

Lewis was looking at the fast vanishing lights of the town. "I should
think it highly probable," he said.


CHAPTER XXIV

THE TACTICS OF A CHIEF

There is another quarter in Bardur besides the English one. Down by the
stream side there are narrow streets built on the scarp of the rock,
hovels with deep rock cellars, and a wonderful amount of cubic space
beneath the brushwood thatch. There the trader from Yarkand who has
contraband wares to dispose of may hold a safe market. And if you were
to go at nightfall into this quarter, where the foot of the Kashmir
policeman rarely penetrates, you might find shaggy tribesmen who have
been all their lives outlaws, walking unmolested to visit their friends,
and certain Jewish gentlemen, members of the great family who have
conquered the world, engaged in the pursuit of their unlawful calling.

Marker speedily left the broader streets of the European quarter, and
plunged down a steep alley which led to the stream. Half way down there
was a lane to the left in the line of hovels, and, after stopping a
moment to consider, he entered this. It was narrow and dark, but smelt
cleanly enough of the dry granite sand. There were little dark
apertures in the huts, which might have been either doors or windows,
and at one of these he stopped, lit a match, and examined it closely.
The result was satisfactory; for the man, who had hitherto been
crouching, straightened himself up and knocked. The door opened
instantaneously, and he bowed his tall head to enter a narrow passage.
This brought him into a miniature courtyard, about thirty feet across,
above which gleamed a patch of violet sky, sown with stars. Below a
door on the right a light shone, and this he pushed open, and entered a
little room.

The place was richly furnished, with low couches and Persian tables, and
on the floor a bright matting. The short, square-set man sitting
smoking on the divan we have already met at a certain village in the
mountains. Fazir Khan, descendant of Abraham, and father and chief of
the Bada-Mawidi, has a nervous eye and an uneasy face to-night, for it
is a hard thing for a mountaineer, an inhabitant of great spaces, to sit
with composure in a trap-like room in the citadel of a foe who has many
acts of rape and murder to avenge on his body. To do Fazir Khan justice
he strove to conceal his restlessness under the usual impassive calm of
his race. He turned his head slightly as Marker entered, nodded gravely
over the bowl of his pipe, and pointed to the seat at the far end of the
divan.

"It is a dark night," he said. "I heard you stumbling on the causeway
before you entered. And I have many miles to cover before dawn."

Marker nodded. "Then you must make haste, my friend. You must be in
the hills by daybreak, for I have some errands I want you to do for me.
I have to-night been dining with two strangers, who have come up from
the south."

The chief's eyes sparkled. "Do they suspect?"

"Nothing in particular, everything in general. They are English. One
was here before and got far up into your mountains. He wrote a clever
book when he returned, which made people think. They say their errand
is sport, and it may be. On the other hand I have a doubt. One has not
the air of the common sportsman. He thinks too much, and his eyes have
a haggard look. It is possible that they are in their Government's
services and have come to reconnoitre."

"Then we are lost," said Fazir Khan sourly. "It was always a fool's
plan, at the mercy of any wandering Englishman."

"Not so," said Marker. "Nothing is lost, and nothing will be lost. But
I fear these two men. They do not bluster and talk at random like the
others. They are so very quiet that they may mean danger."

"They must remain here," said the chief. "Give me the word, and I will
send one of my men to hough their horses and, if need be, cripple
themselves."

Marker laughed. "You are an honest fool, Fazir Khan. That sort of
thing is past now. We live in the wrong times and places for it. We
cannot keep them here, but we must send them on a goose-chase. Do you
understand?"

"I understand nothing. I am a simple man and my ways are simple, and
not as yours."

"Then attend to my words, my friend. Our expedition must be changed and
made two days sooner. That will give these two Englishmen three days
only to checkmate it. Besides, they are ignorant, and to-morrow is lost
to them, for they go to a ball at the Logan woman's. Still, I fear them
with two days to work in. If they go north, they are clever and
suspicious, and they may see or fancy enough to wreck our plans. They
may have the way barred, and we know how little would bar the way."

"Ten resolute men," said the chief. "Nay, I myself, with my two sons,
would hold a force at bay there."

"If that is true, how much need is there to be wary beforehand! Since
we cannot prevent these men from meddling, we can give them rope to
meddle in small matters. Let us assume that they have been sent out by
their Government. In his dream the dawn was about him, and he stood on
the lawn outside the Schuylers' great house above Albany. From the
ballroom came the faint sound of violins, while he lingered to say
good-bye to three night-gowned little girls in the window over the
porch; and some way down the hill stood young Sagramore, of the
Twenty-seventh, who was saying, "It is a long way to go.

Do you think he is strong enough?"
Still in his dream John turned on him indignantly.

And behold!

it was not young Sagramore, but Dominique, standing by the bed and talking
with Menehwehna.

"We are to start for the Fort, it appears," said Menehwehna to John.

"Let us first make sure," said Dominique, "that he is strong enough
to dress."

He thrust his hand within the _armoire_ and unhitched the white
tunic from its peg.

John shrank back into his corner.

"Not that!" he stammered.

Across the lamp smoking in the dawn, Dominique stared at him.

CHAPTER XIII.

FORT AMITIE.

The Fort stood high on a wooded slope around which the river swept
through narrows to spread itself below in a lake three miles wide
and almost thirty long.

In shape it was quadrilateral with a frontage of fifty toises and a depth
of thirty, and from each angle of its stone walls abutted a flanking
tower, the one at the western angle taller than the others by a good
twenty feet and surmounted by a flagstaff.

East, west, and south, the ground fell gently to the water's edge,
entirely clear of trees: even their stumps had been uprooted to make
room for small gardens in which the garrison grew its cabbages and
pot-herbs; and below these gardens the Commandant's cows roamed
in a green riverside meadow. At the back a rougher clearing, two
cannon-shots in width, divided the northern wall from the dark tangle
of the forest.

The canoe had been sighted far down the lake, and the Commandant himself,
with his brother M. Etienne and his daughter Mademoiselle Diane, had
descended to the quay to welcome the _voyageurs_.
A little apart stood Sergeant Bedard, old Jeremie Tripier (formerly
major-domo and general factotum at Boisveyrac, now at Fort Amitie
promoted to be _marechal des logis_), and five or six militiamen.

And to John, as he neared the shore in the haze of a golden evening, the
scene and the figures--the trim little stone fortress, the white banner
of France transparent against the sky, the sentry like a toy figure at
the gate, the cattle browsing below, the group at the river's
brink--appeared as a tableau set for a child's play.

To add to the illusion, as the canoe came to the quay the sun sank,
a gun boomed out from the tallest of the four towers, and the flag
ran down its staff; all as if by clockwork.

As if by clockwork, too, the taller of the two old gentlemen on the
quay--the one in a gold-laced coat--stepped forward with a wave of
his hand.

"Welcome, welcome, my good Dominique! It will be news you bring from
Boisveyrac--more news of the great victory, perhaps? And who are these
your comrades?"
"Your servant, Monseigneur; and yours, Monsieur Etienne, and yours,
Mademoiselle Diane!" Dominique brought his canoe alongside and saluted
respectfully. "All my own news is that we have gathered the harvest
at Boisveyrac; a crop not far below the average, we hope.
But Father Launoy desired me to bring you these strangers, who will
tell of matters more important."

"It is the wounded man--the sergeant from Fort Carillon!"

cried Diane, clasping her hands.

"Eh, my child? Nonsense, nonsense--he wears no uniform, as you see.
Moreover, 'Polyte Latulippe brought word that he was lying at the point
of death."
"It is he, nevertheless."
"Mademoiselle has guessed rightly," said Dominique. "It is the wounded
soldier. I have lent him an outfit."

The Commandant stared incredulously from Dominique to John, from
John to Menehwehna, and back again to John.

A delightful smile irradiated his face.

"Then you bring us a good gift indeed! Welcome, sir, welcome to Fort
Amitie! where we will soon have you hale and strong again, if nursing
can do it."
Here, if John meant to play his part, was the moment for him to salute.
He half lifted his hand as he reclined, but let it fall again. From the
river-bank a pair of eyes looked down into his; dark grey eyes--or were
they violet?--shy and yet bold, dim and yet shining with emotion. God
help him! This child--she could be little more--was worshipping him for
a hero!

"Nay, sir, give it to me!" cried the Commandant, stooping by the
quay's edge. "I shall esteem it an honour to grasp the hand of one who
comes from Fort Carillon--who was wounded for France in her hour
of victory. Your name, my friend?--for the messengers who brought word
of you yesterday had not heard it, or perhaps had forgotten."
"My name is a Cleeve, monsieur."
"A Clive? a Clive? It is unknown to me, and yet it has a good
sound, and should belong to _un homme Men ne_?"

He turned inquiringly towards his brother, a mild, elderly man with
a scholar's stoop and a face which assorted oddly with his uniform
of captain of militia, being shrivelled as parchment and snuff-dried
and abstracted in expression as though he had just lifted his eyes
from a book.

"A Clive, Etienne.

From what province should our friend derive?"
M. Etienne's eyes--they were, in fact, short-sighted--seemed to
search inwardly for a moment before he answered:

"There was a family of that name in the Quercy; so late, I think, as 1650.
I had supposed it to be extinct.

It bore arms counterpaly argent and gules, a canton ermine--"

"My brother, sir," the Commandant interrupted, "is a famous
genealogist.

Do you accept this coat-of-arms he assigns to you?"

"If M. le Commandant will excuse me--"
"Eh, eh?--an awkward question, no doubt, to put to many a young man
of family now serving with the colours?" The Commandant chuckled
knowingly. "But I have an eye, sir, for nice shades, and an ear
too.
_Verbum sapienti satis_. A sergeant, they tell me--and of the Bearnais;
but until we have cured you, sir, and the active list again claims
you, you are Monsieur a Clive and my guest.

We shall talk, so, upon an easier footing. Tut-tut! I have eyes in
my head, I repeat. And this Indian of yours--how does he call himself?"

"Menehwehna, monsieur. He is an Ojibway."
"And you and he have come by way of the Wilderness?

Now what puzzles me--"
"Papa!" interposed the girl gently, laying a hand on her father's sleeve;
"ought we not to get him ashore before troubling him with all these
questions? He is suffering, I think."
"You say well, my child. A thousand pardons, sir. Here, Bedard!
Jeremie!"
But it was Menehwehna who, with inscrutable face, helped John ashore,
suffering the others only to hold the canoe steady. John tried
hard to collect his thoughts to face this new situation. He had dreamed
of falling among savages in these backwoods; but he had fallen among
folk gentle in manner and speech, anxious to show him courtesy; folk
to whom (as in an instant he divined) truth and uprightness were
dearer than life and judged as delicately as by his own family at home
in Devonshire. How came they here? Who was this girl whose eyes he
avoided lest they should weigh him, as a sister's might, in the scales
of honour?

A man may go through life cherishing many beliefs which are internecine
foes; unaware of their discordance, or honestly persuaded that within
him the lion and the lamb are lying down together, whereas in truth
his fate has never drawn the bolts of their separate cages.

John had his doubts concerning God; but something deeper than reason
within him detested a lie. Yet as a soldier he had accepted without
examination the belief that many actions vile in peace are in war
permissible, even obligatory; a loose belief, the limits of which
no man in his regiment--perhaps no man in the two armies--could
have defined.

In war you may kill; nay, you must; but you must do it by code, and
with many exceptions and restrictions as to the how and when. In
war (John supposed) you may lie; nay, again, in certain circumstances you
must.

With this girl's eyes upon him, worshipping him for a hero, John
discovered suddenly that here and now he could not.

For an instant, as if along a beam of light, he looked straight into
Militarism's sham and ugly heart.

Yes, he saw it quite clearly, and was resolved to end the lie.

But for the moment, in his bodily weakness, his will lagged behind his
brain.

As a sick man tries to lift a hand and cannot, so he sought to rally
his will to meet the crisis and was dismayed to find it benumbed
and half-asleep.

They were ascending the slope, and still as they went the Commandant's
voice was questioning him.

"Through the Wilderness! That was no small exploit, my friend,
and it puzzles me how you came to attempt it; for you were severely
wounded, were you not?"
"I received two wounds at Fort Carillon, monsieur. The proposal to
make across the woods was not mine.

It came from the French sergeant in command of our boat."
"So--so. I ought to have guessed it. You were a whole boat's party then,
at starting?" John felt the crisis near; but the Commandant's mind was
discursive, and he paused to wave a proprietary hand towards the walls
and towers of his fortress. "A snug little shelter for the backwoods--eh,
M. a Clive? I am, you must know, a student of the art of fortification;
_c'est ma rengaine_, as my daughter will tell you, and I shall
have much to ask concerning that famous outwork of M. de Montcalm's,
which touches my curiosity.

So far as Damase could tell me, Fort Carillon itself was never even in
danger--" But here Mademoiselle Diane again touched his sleeve. "Yes,
yes, to be sure, we will not weary our friend just now. We will cure him
first; and while he is mending, you shall look out a new uniform from
the stores and set your needle to work to render it as like as you can
contrive to the Bearnais. Nay, sir, to her enthusiasm that will be but
a trifle. Remember that you come to us crowned with laurels,
and with news for which we welcome you as though you brought a
message from the General himself."

A sudden thought fetched the Commandant to a standstill. "You are sure
that the sergeant, your comrade, carried no message?"
John paused with Menehwehna's arm supporting him.

"If he carried a message, monsieur, he told me of none."
Where were his faculties? Why were they hanging back and refusing to
come to grips with the crisis? Why did this twilit riverside persist in
seeming unreal to him, and the actors, himself included, as figures
moving in a shadow-play?

Once, in a dream, he had seen himself standing at the wings of a
stage--an actor, dressed for his part. The theatre was crowded; someone
had begun to ring a bell for the curtain to go up; and he, the
hero of the piece, knew not one word of his part, could not even
remember the name of the play or what it was about.

The dream had been extraordinarily vivid, and he had awakened in a
sweat.

"But," the Commandant urged, "he must have had some reason for
striking through the forest.

What was his name?"
"Barboux."
John, as he answered, could not see Menehwehna's face; but Menehwehna's
supporting arm did not flinch.

"Was he, too, of the regiment of Bearn?"
"He was of the Bearnais, monsieur."
"Tell us now.

When the Iroquois overtook you, could he have passed on a message, had he
carried one?"

While John hesitated, Menehwehna answered him. "It was I only who saw
the sergeant die," said Menehwehna quietly. He gave me no message."

"You were close to him?"
"Very close."

"It is curious," mused the Commandant, and turned to John again.

"Your falling in with the Iroquois, monsieur, gives me some anxiety;
since it happens that a party from here and from Fort Frontenac was
crossing the Wilderness at about the same time, with messages for the
General on Lake Champlain.

You saw nothing of them?"
Again Menehwehna took up the answer. "We met no one but these Iroquois,"
he said smoothly.

And as Menehwehna spoke the words John felt that everyone in the group
about him had been listening for it with a common tension of anxiety.
He gazed around, bewildered for the moment by the lie.
The girl stood with clasped hands. "Thank God!"

he heard the Commandant say, lifting his hat.

What new mystery was here?

Menehwehna stood with a face immobile and inscrutable; and John's soul
rose up against him in rage and loathing. The man had dishonoured him,
counting on his gratitude to endorse the lie.

Well, he was quit of gratitude now.

"To-morrow, my fine fellow," said he to himself, clenching his teeth,
"the whole tale shall be told; between this and the telling you
may save your skin, if you can "; and so he turned to the
Commandant.

"Monsieur," he said with a meaning glance at Menehwehna, "I beg
you to accept no part of our story until I have told it through
to you."

The Commandant was plainly puzzled.

"Willingly, monsieur; but I beg you to consider the sufferings of our
curiosity and be kind in putting a term to them."
"To-morrow--" began John, and looking up, came to a pause.

Dominique Guyon had followed them up from the boat and was thrusting
himself unceremoniously upon the Commandant's attention.

"Since this monsieur mentions to-morrow," interrupted Dominique
abruptly, "and before I am dismissed to supper, may I claim the
Seigneur's leave to depart early to-morrow morning?"

The interruption was so unmannerly that John stared from one to another
of the group. The Commandant's face had grown very red indeed. Dominique
himself seemed sullenly aware of his rudeness.

But John's eyes came to rest on Mademoiselle Diane's; on her eyes for
an instant, and then on her lashes, as she bent her gaze on the
ground--it seemed to him, purposely, and to avoid Dominique's.

"Dominique," said the Commandant haughtily, "you forget yourself.
You intrude upon my conversation with this gentleman."

His voice shook and yet it struck John that his anger covered some
anxiety.

"Monseigneur must forgive me," answered Dominique, still with an
awkward sullenness.

"But it is merely my dismissal that I beg.
I wish to return early to-morrow to Boisveyrac; the harvest there is
gathered, to be sure, but no one can be trusted to finish the
stacks.

With so many dancing attendance on the military, the Seigniory suffers;
and, by your leave, I am responsible for it."

He glared upon John, who gazed back honestly puzzled. The Commandant
seemed on the verge of an explosion, but checked himself.

"My excellent Dominique Guyon," said he, "uses the freedom of an old
tenant. But here we are at the gate. I bid you welcome, Monsieur a Clive,
to my small fortress! Tut, tut, Dominique! We will talk of business
in the morning."

Alone with Menehwehna in the bare hospital ward to which old Jeremie
as _marechal des logis_ escorted them, John turned on the Ojibway
and let loose his indignation.

"And look you," he wound up, "this shall be the end. At daybreak to-morrow
the gate of the fort will be opened.

Take the canoe and make what speed you can. I will give you until ten
o'clock, but at that hour I promise you to tell my tale to the Commandant,
and to tell him all."
"If my brother is resolved," said Menehwehna composedly, "let him waste
no words. What is settled is settled, and to be angry will do his
head no good."

He composed himself to sleep on the floor at the foot of John's bed, pulling
his rug up to his ears. There were six empty beds in the ward, and one
had been prepared for him; but Menehwehna despised beds.

John awoke to sunlight. It poured in through three windows high in
the whitewashed wall opposite, and his first thought was to turn
over and look for Menehwehna.

Menehwehna had disappeared.

John lay back on the pillow and stared up at the ceiling. Menehwehna had
gone; he was free of him, and this day was to deliver his soul.
In an hour or so he would be sitting under lock and key, but with
a conscience bathed and refreshed, a companion to be looked in the
face, a clear-eyed counsellor.

The morning sunlight filled the room with a clean cheerfulness, and
he seemed to drink it in through his pores. Forgetting his wound,
he jumped out of bed with a laugh.

As he did so his eye travelled along the empty beds in the ward,
and along a row of pegs above them, and stiffened suddenly.

There were twelve pegs, and all were bare save one--the one in the
wall-space separating his bed from the bed which had been prepared for
Menehwehna; and from this peg hung Sergeant Barboux's white tunic.

It had not been hanging there last night when he dropped asleep: to
that he could take his oath. He had supposed it to be left behind in
the _armoire_ at Boisveyrac.

For a full minute he sat on the bed's edge gazing at it in sheer
dismay, its evil menace closing like a grip upon his heart.

But by and by the grip relaxed as dismay gave room to rage, and with rage
came courage.

He laughed again fiercely.

Up to this moment he had always shrunk from touch of the thing; but now
he pulled it from its peg, held it at arm's length for a moment,
and flung it contemptuously on the floor.

"You, at least, I am not going to fear any longer!"
As he cast it from him something crackled under his fingers. For a
second or two he stood over the tunic, eyeing it between old disgust
and new surmise.

Then, dropping on one knee, he fumbled it over, found the inner
breast-pocket, and pulled from it a paper.

It was of many sheets, folded in a blue wrapper, sealed with a large
red seal, and addressed in cipher.

Turning it over in his hand, he caught sight, in the lower left-hand
corner, of a dark spot which his thumb had covered.

He stared at it; then at his thumb, to the ball of which some red
dust adhered; then at the seal. The wax bore the impress of a flying
Mercury, with cap, caduceus and winged sandals. The ciphered address he
could not interpret; it was brief, written in two lines, in a bold
clear hand.

This, then, was the missive which Barboux had carried.

Had Menehwehna discovered it and placed it here for him to discover?

Yes, undoubtedly. And this was a French dispatch; and at any cost he
must intercept it! His soldier's sacrament required no less.
He must conceal it--seek his opportunity to escape with it--go on
lying meanwhile in hope of an opportunity.

Where now was the prospects of his soul's deliverance?

He crept back to bed and was thrusting the letter under his pillow when
a slight sound drew his eyes towards the door.

In the doorway stood Menehwehna with a breakfast-tray.

The Indian's eyes travelled calmly across the room as he entered and
set the tray down on the bed next to John's. Without speaking he picked
up the tumbled tunic from the floor and set it back on its peg.

CHAPTER XIV.

AGAIN THE WHITE TUNIC.

"But touching this polygon of M. de Montcalm's--"
Within the curtain-wall facing the waterside the ground had been terraced
up to form a high platform or _terre-plein_, whence six guns,
mounted in embrasures, commanded the river.

Hither John had crept, with the support of a stick, to enjoy the
sunshine and the view, and here the Commandant had found him and held
him in talk, walking him to and fro, with pauses now and again beside a
gun for a few minutes' rest.

"But touching this polygon of M. de Montcalm's, he would doubtless
follow Courmontaigne rather than Vauban. The angles, you say, were boldly
advanced?"
"So they appeared to me, monsieur; but you understand that I took no
part--"
"By advancing the angles boldly"--here the Commandant pressed his
finger-tips together by way of illustration--"we allow so much more
play to enfilading fire. I speak only of defence against direct
assault; for of opposing such a structure to artillery the General
could have had no thought."
"Half a dozen six-pounders, well directed, could have knocked it
about his ears in as many minutes."
"That does not detract from his credit. Every general fights with
two heads--his own and his adversary's; and, for the rest, we have
to do what we can do with our material." The Commandant halted and
gazed down whimsically upon the courtyard, in the middle of which
his twenty-five militiamen were being drilled by M. Etienne and
Sergeant Bedard. "My whole garrison, sir! Eh? you seem incredulous.
My whole garrison, I give you my word! Five-and-twenty militiamen
to defend a post of this importance; and up at Fort Frontenac, the
very key of the West, my old friend Payan de Noyan has but a hundred
in command! I do not understand it, sir. Stores we have in abundance,
and ammunition and valuable presents to propitiate the Indians who
no longer exist in this neighbourhood. Yes, and--would you believe
it?--no longer than three months ago the Governor sent up a boatload
of women. It appeared that his Majesty had forwarded them all the
way from France, for wives for his faithful soldiers. I packed them
off, sir, and returned them to M. de Vaudreuil. 'With all submission
to his Majesty's fatherly wisdom,' I wrote, 'the requirements of
New France at this moment are best determined by sterner considerations';
and I asked for fifty regulars to man our defences. M. de Vaudreuil
replied by sending me up one man, and _he_ had but one arm! I made
Noyan a present of him; his notions of fortification were rudimentary,
not to say puerile."
The Commandant paused and dug the surface of the _terre-plein_
indignantly with his heel.If
I don't turn up, you go off to Khautmi next morning at daybreak and give
them my message. If I can't come myself I'll find a way to send word;
but if you don't hear from me it will be fairly serious, for it will
mean that the rising is a formidable thing after all. And that, of
course, will mean trouble for everybody all round. In that case you'd
better do what St. John and Mitchinson tell you. You're sure to be
wanted."

George's face cleared. "That sounds rather sport. I'd better bring up
the servants. They might turn out useful. And I suppose I'll bring a
couple of rifles for you, in case it's all a fraud and we want to go
shooting. I thought the place was going to be stale, but it promises
pretty well now." And he studied the plan on his shirt cuff. Then an
idea came to him.

"Suppose you find no rising. That will mean that Marker's letter was a
blind of some sort. He wanted to get you out of the way or something.
What will you do then? Come back here?"

"N--o," said Lewis hesitatingly. "I think Thwaite is good enough, and I
should be no manner of use. You and I will wait up there in the hills
on the off-chance of picking up some news. I swear I won't come back
here to hang about and try and discover things. It's enough to drive a
man crazy."

"It is rather a ghastly place. Wonder how the Logans thrive here. Odd
mixture this. Strauss and hill tribes not twenty miles apart."

Lewis laughed. "I think I prefer the hill tribes. I am not in the
humour for Strauss just now. I shall have to be off in an hour, so I am
going to change. See you to-morrow, old man."

George retired to the ballroom, where he had to endure the reproaches of
Mrs. Logan. He was an abstracted and silent partner, and in the
intervals of dancing he studied his cuff. Miss A talked to him of polo,
and Miss B of home; Miss C discovered that they had common friends, and
Miss D that she had known his sister. Miss E, who was more observant,
saw the cause of his distraction and asked, "What queer hieroglyphics
have you got on your cuff, Mr. Winterham?"

George looked down in a bewildered way at his sleeve. "Where on earth
have I been?" he asked in wonder. "That's the worst of being an
absent-minded fellow. I've been scribbling on my cuff with my programme
pencil."

Soon he escaped, and made his way down to the garden gate, where Thwaite
was standing smoking. A _sais_ held a saddled pony by the road-side.
Lewis, in rough shooting clothes, was preparing to mount. From indoors
came the jigging of a waltz tune and the sound of laughter, while far in
the north the cliffs of the pass framed a dark blue cleft where the
stars shone. George drew in great draughts of the cool, fresh air. "I
wish I was coming with you," he said wistfully.

"You'll be in time enough to-morrow," said Lewis. "I wish you'd give
him all the information you can about the place, Thwaite. He's an
ignorant beggar. See that he remembers to bring food and matches. The
guns are the only things I can promise he won't forget."

Then he rode off, the little beast bucking excitedly at the patches of
moonlight, and the two men walked back to the house.

"Hope he comes back all right," said Thwaite.

"He's too good a man to throw away."


CHAPTER XXVII

THE ROAD TO FORZA

The road ran in a straight line through the valley of dry rocks, a dull,
modern road, engineered and macadamized up to the edge of the hills.
The click of hoofs raised echoes in the silence, for in all the great
valley, in the chain of pools in the channel, the acres of sun-dried
stone, the granite rocks, the tangle of mountain scrub, there seemed no
life of bird or beast. It was a strange, deathly stillness, and
overhead the purple sky, sown with a million globes of light, seemed so
near and imminent that the glen for the moment was but a vast jewel-lit
cavern, and the sky a fretted roof which spanned the mountains.

For the first time Lewis felt the East. Hitherto he had been unable to
see anything in his errand but its futility. A stupider man, with a
sharp, practical brain, would have taken himself seriously and come to
Bardur with an intent and satisfied mind. He would have assumed the air
of a diplomatist, have felt the dignity of his mission, and in success
and failure have borne himself with self-confidence. But to Lewis the
business which loomed serious in England, at Bardur took on the colour
of comedy. He felt his impotence, he was touched insensibly by the easy
content of the place. Frontier difficulties seemed matters for romance
and comic opera; and Bardur resolved itself into an English suburb, all
tea-parties and tennis. But at times an austere conscience jogged him
to remembrance, and in one such fitful craving for action and enterprise
he had found this errand. Now at last, astride the little Kashmir pony,
with his face to the polestar and the hills, he felt the mystery of a
strange world, and his work assumed a tinge of the adventurer. This was
new, he told himself; this was romance. He had his eyes turned to a new
land, and the smell of dry mountain sand and scrub, and the vault-like,
imperial sky were the earnest of his inheritance. This was the East,
the gorgeous, the impenetrable. Before him were the hill deserts, and
then the great, warm plains, and the wide rivers, and then on and on to
the cold north, the steppes, the icy streams, the untrodden forests. To
the west and beyond the mountains were holy mosques, "shady cities of
palm trees," great walled towns to which north and west and south
brought their merchandise. And to the east were latitudes more
wonderful, the uplands of the world, the impassable borders of the
oldest of human cultures. Names rang in his head like tunes--Khiva,
Bokhara, Samarkand, the goal of many boyish dreams born of clandestine
suppers and the Arabian Nights. It was an old fierce world he was on
the brink of, and the nervous frontier civilization fell a thousand
miles behind him.

The white road turned to the right with the valley, and the hills crept
down to the distance of a gun-shot. The mounting tiers of stone and
brawling water caught the moonlight in waves, and now he was in a cold
pit of shadow and now in a patch of radiant moonshine. It was a world
of fantasy, a rousing world of wintry hill winds and sudden gleams of
summer. His spirits rose high, and he forgot all else in plain
enjoyment. Now at last he had found life, rich, wild, girt with
marvels. He was beginning to whistle some air when his pony shied
violently and fell back, and at the same moment a pistol-shot cracked
out of a patch of thorn.

He turned the beast and rode straight at the thicket, which was a very
little one. The ball had wandered somewhere into the void, and no harm
was done, but he was curious about its owner. Up on the hillside he
seemed to see a dark figure scrambling among the cliffs in the fretted
moonlight.

It is unpleasant to be shot at in the dark from the wayside, but at the
moment the thing pleased this strange young man. It seemed a token that
at last he was getting to work. He found a rope stretched taut across
the road, which accounted for the pony's stumble. Laughing heartily, he
cut it with his knife, and continued, cheerful as before, but somewhat
less fantastic. Now he kept a sharp eye on all wayside patches.

At the head of the valley the waters of the stream forked into two
torrents, one flowing from the east in an open glen up which ran the
road to Yarkand, the other descending from the northern hills in a wild
gully. At the foot stood a little hut with an apology for stabling,
where an old and dirty gentleman of the Hunza race pursued his calling
till such time as he should attract the notice of his friends up in the
hills and go to paradise with a slit throat.

Lewis roused the man with a violent knocking at the door. The old
ruffian appeared with a sputtering lamp which might have belonged to a
cave man, and a head of matted grey hair which suggested the same
origin. He was old and suspicious, but at Lewis's bidding he hobbled
forth and pointed out the stabling.

"The pony is to stay here till it is called for. Do you hear? And if
Holm Sahib returns and finds that it is not fed he will pay you nothing.
So good night, father. Sound sleep and a good conscience."

He turned to the twisting hill road which ran up from the light into the
gloom of the cleft with all the vigour of an old mountaineer who has
been long forced to dwell among lowlands. Once a man acquires the art
of hill walking he will always find flat country something of a burden,
and the mere ascent of a slope will have a tonic's power. The path was
good, but perilous at the best, and the proximity of yawning precipices
gave a zest to the travel. The road would fringe a pit of shade, black
but for the gleam of mica and the scattered foam of the stream. It was
no longer a silent world. Hawks screamed at times from the cliffs, and
a multitude of bats and owls flickered in the depths. A continuous
falling of waters, an infinite sighing of night winds, the swaying and
tossing which is always heard in the midmost mountain solitudes, the
crumbling of hill gravel and the bleat of a goat on some hill-side, all
made a cheerful accompaniment to the scraping of his boots on the rocky
road.

He remembered the way as if he had travelled it yesterday. Soon the
gorge would narrow and he would be almost at the water's edge. Then the
path turned to the right and wound into the heart of a side nullah,
which at length brought it out on a little plateau of rocks. There the
road climbed a long ridge till at last it reached the great plateau,
where Forza, set on a small hilltop, watched thirty miles of primeval
desert. The air was growing chilly, for the road climbed steeply and
already it was many thousand feet above the sea. The curious salt smell
which comes from snow and rock was beginning to greet his nostrils. The
blood flowed more freely in his veins, and insensibly he squared his
shoulders to drink in the cold hill air. It was of the mountains and
yet strangely foreign, an air with something woody and alpine in the
heart of it, an air born of scrub and snow-clad rock, and not of his own
free spaces of heather. But it was hill-born, and this contented him;
it was night-born, and it refreshed him. In a little the road turned
down to the stream side, and he was on the edge of a long dark pool.

The river, which made a poor show in the broad channel at Bardur, was
now, in this straitened place, a full lipping torrent of clear, green
water. Lewis bathed his flushed face and drank, and it was as cold as
snow. It stung his face to burning, and as he walked the heartsome glow
of great physical content began to rise in his heart. He felt fit and
ready for any work. Life was quick in his sinews, his brain was a
weathercock, his strength was tireless. At last he had found a man's
life. He had never had a chance before. Life had been too easy and
sheltered; he had been coddled like a child; he had never roughed it
except for his own pleasure. Now he was outside this backbone of the
world with a task before him, and only his wits for his servant. Eton
and Oxford, Eton and Oxford--so it had been for generations--an
education sufficient to damn a race. Stocks was right, and he had all
along been wrong; but now he was in a fair way to taste the world's iron
and salt, and he exulted at the prospect.

It was hard walking in the nullah. In and out of great crevices the
road wound itself, on the brink of stupendous waterfalls, or in the
heart of a brushwood tangle. Soon a clear vault of sky replaced the
out-jutting crags, and he came out on a little plateau where a very cold
wind was blowing. The smell of snow was in the air, a raw smell like
salt when carried on a north wind over miles of granite crags. But on
the little tableland the moon was shining clearly. It was green with
small cloud-berries and dwarf juniper, and the rooty fragrance was for
all the world like an English bolt or a Highland pasture. Lewis flung
himself prone and buried his face among the small green leaves. Then,
still on the ground, he scanned the endless yellow distance. Mountains,
serrated and cleft as in some giant's play, rose on every hand, while
through the hollows gleamed the farther snow-peaks. This little bare
plateau must be naked to any eye on any hill-side, and at the thought he
got to his feet and advanced.

At first sight the place had looked not a mile long, but before he got
to the farther slope he found that it was nearer two. The mountain air
had given him extraordinary lightness, and he ran the distance, finding
the hard, sandy soil like a track under his feet. The slope, when he
had reached it, proved to be abrupt and boulder-strewn, and the path had
an ugly trick of avoiding steepness by skirting horrible precipices.
Luckily the moon was bright, and the man was an old mountaineer;
otherwise he might have found a grave in the crevices which seamed the
hill.

He had not gone far when he began to realize that he was not the only
occupant of the mountain side. A whistle which was not a bird's seemed
to catch his ear at times, and once, as he shrank back into the lee of a
boulder, there was the sound of naked feet on the road before him. This
was news indeed, and he crept very cautiously up the rugged path. Once,
when in shelter, he looked out, and for a second, in a patch of
moonlight, he saw a man with the loose breeches and tightened girdle of
the hillmen. He was running swiftly as if to some arranged place of
meeting.

The sight put all doubts out of his head. An attack on Forza was
imminent, and this was the side from which least danger would be
expected. If the enemy got there before him they would find an easy
entrance. The thought made him quicken his pace. These scattered
tribesmen must meet before they attacked, and there might still be time
for him to get in front. His ears were sharp as a deer's to the
slightest sound. A great joy in the game possessed him. When he
crouched in the shelter of a granite boulder or sprawled among the scrub
while the light footsteps of a tribesman passed on the road he felt that
one point was scored to him in a game in which he had no advantages. He
blessed his senses trained by years of sport to a keenness beyond a
townsman's; his eye, which could see distances clear even in the misty
moonlight; his ear, which could judge the proximity of sounds with a
nice exactness. Twice he was on the brink of discovery. A twig snapped
as he lay in cover, and he heard footsteps pause, and he knew that a
pair of very keen eyes were scanning the brushwood. He blessed his
lucky choice in clothes which had made him bring a suit so near the hue
of his hiding-place. Then he felt that the eyes were averted, the
footsteps died away, and he was safe. Again, as he turned a corner
swiftly, he almost came on the back of a man who was stepping along
leisurely before him. For a second he stopped, and then he was back
round the corner, and had swung himself up to a patch of shadow on the
crag-side. He looked down and saw his enemy clearly in the moonlight; a
long, ferret-faced fellow, with a rifle hung on his back and an ugly
crooked knife in his hand. The man looked round, sniffing the air like
a stag, and then, satisfied that there was nothing to fear, turned and
went on. Lewis, who had been sitting on a sharp jag of rock, swung an
aching body to the ground and advanced circumspectly.

In an hour or two he came to the top of the slope and the beginning of
the second tableland. A grey dimness was taking the place of the dark,
and it had suddenly grown bitterly cold. Dawn in such high latitudes is
not a thing of violent changes, but of slow and subtle gradations of
light, of sudden, coy flushes of colour, of thin winds and bright
fleeting hazes. He lay for a minute in the scrub of cloud-berries, the
collar of his coat buttoned round his throat, and the morning wind,
fresh from leagues of snow, blowing chill on his face. Behind was the
slope alive with men who at any moment might emerge on the plateau. He
waited for the sight of a figure, but none came; clearly the muster was
not yet complete. A thought grew in his brain, and a sudden clearness
in the air translated it into action; for in the hazy distance across
the tableland he saw the walls of Forza fort.

The place could not be two miles off, and between it and him there was
the smooth benty plateau. He might make a rush for it and cross
unobserved. Even now the early sun was beginning to strike it. The
yellow-grey walls stood out clear against the far line of mountains, and
the wisp of colour which fluttered in the wind was clearly the British
flag. The exceeding glory of the morning gave him a new vigour. Why
should not he run with any tribesman of the lot? If he could but avoid
the risk of a rifle bullet at the outset, he would have no fear of the
issue.

He glanced behind him. The place seemed still, though far down there
was a tinkle as of little stones falling. He stood up, straightened
himself for one moment till he had filled his lungs with the clean air.
Then he started to run quickly towards the fort.

The full orb of the sun topped the mountains and the dazzle was in his
eyes from the first. If he covered the first half-mile unpursued he
would be safe; otherwise he might expect a bullet. It was a comic
feeling-the wide green heath, the fresh air, the easy vigour in his
stride, the flush of the morning sun, and that awkward, nervous weakness
in the small of his back where a bullet might be expected to find a
lodgment.

He never looked back till he had gone what seemed to him the proper
distance, and then he glanced hurriedly over his shoulder.

Two men had emerged from the scrub and stood on the edge of the slope.
They were gazing intently at him, and suddenly one lifted a Snider to
his shoulder and fired. The bullet burrowed in the sand to the right of
him. Again he looked back and there they were--five of them now--crying
out to him. Then with one accord they followed over the plateau.

It was now a clear race for life. He must keep beyond reasonable
rifle-shot; otherwise a broken leg might bring him to a standstill. He
cursed the deceptive clearness of the hill air which made it impossible
for his unpractised eye to judge distances. The fort stood clear in
every stone, but it might be miles off though it looked scarcely a
thousand yards. Apparently it was still asleep, for no smoke was
rising, and, strain his ears as he might, he could hear no sound of a
sentry's walk. This looked awkward indeed for him. If the people were
not awake to receive him, he would be potted against its wall as surely
as a rat in a corner. He grew acutely nervous, and as he drew nearer he
made the air hideous with shouts to wake the garrison. A clear race in
the open he did not mind; but he had no stomach for a game of
hide-and-seek around an unscalable wall with an active enemy.

Apparently the gentry behind him were growing despondent. Two rifle
bullets, fired by running men, sang unsteadily in his wake. He was now
so near that he could see the rough wooden gate and the pyramidal nails
with which it was studded. But the snows melted, the days lengthened,
and still the signal did not come; for the general by the sea
gate was himself besieged.

Through the winter he and his small army sat patiently in the city
they had ruined.

Conquerors in lands more southerly may bury their dead with speed,
rebuild captured walls, set up a pillar and statue of Victory, and in a
month or two, the green grass helping them, forget all but the glory
of the battle. But here in the north the same hand arrests them and
for six months petrifies the memorials of their rage. Until the Spring
dissolves it, the image of war lives face to face with them, white,
with frozen eyes, sparing them only the colour of its wounds.

General Murray, like many a soldier in his army, had dreams of
emulating Wolfe's glory. But Wolfe had snatched victory out of the
shadow of coming winter; and, almost before Murray's army could cut
wood for fuel, the cold was upon them. For two months Quebec had been
pounded with shot and shell. Her churches and hospitals stood roofless;
hundreds of houses had been fired, vaults and storehouses pillaged,
doors and windows riddled everywhere. There was no digging entrenchments
in the frozen earth. Walls six feet thick had been breached by artillery;
and the loose stones, so cold they were, could hardly be
handled.

Among these ruins, on the frozen cliff over the frozen river, Murray
and his seven thousand men settled down to wear the winter through.

They were short of food, short of fuel. Frost-bite maimed them at first;
then scurvy, dysentery, fever, began to kill.

They laid their dead out on the snow, to be buried when spring should
return and thaw the earth; and by the end of April their dead numbered
six hundred and fifty. Yet they kept up their spirits.

Early in November there had been rumours that the French under Levis
meant to march on the city and retake it.

In December deserters brought word that he was on his way--that
he would storm the city on the twenty-second, and dine within the
citadel on Christmas Day.

In January news arrived that he was preparing scaling-ladders and
training his men in the use of them.

Still the days dragged by.

The ice on the river began to break up and swirl past the ramparts
on the tides.

The end of April came, and with it a furious midnight storm, and out of
the storm a feeble cry--the voice of a half-dead Frenchman clinging
to a floe of ice far out on the river.

He was rescued, placed in a hammock, and carried up Mountain Street
to the General's quarters; and Murray, roused from sleep at three o'clock
in the morning, listened to his story.

He was an artillery-sergeant of Levis's army; and that army, twelve
thousand strong, was close to the gates of Quebec.

The storm had fallen to a cold drizzle of rain when at dawn Murray's
troops issued from the St.

Louis gate and dragged their guns out through the slush of the St. Foy
road. On the ground where Wolfe had given battle, or hard by, they
unlimbered in face of the enemy and opened fire.

Two hours later, outflanked by numbers, having lost a third of their
three thousand in the short fight, they fell back on the battered
walls they had mistrusted.

For a few hours the fate of Quebec hung on a hair. But the garrison could
build now; and, while Levis dragged up his guns from the river, the
English worked like demons. They had guns, at any rate, in plenty; and,
while the French dug and entrenched themselves on the ground they had
won, daily the breaches closed and the English fire grew hotter.

April gave place to May, and the artillery fire continued on the
heights; but, as it grew noisier it grew also less important, for
now the eyes of both commanders were fastened on the river.

Two fleets were racing for Quebec, and she would belong to the first
to drop anchor within her now navigable river.

Then came a day when, as Murray sat brooding by the fire in his quarters
in St.

Louis Street, an officer ran in with the news of a ship of war in the
Basin, beating up towards the city. "Whatever she is," said the General,
"we will hoist our colours." Weather had frayed out the halliards on the
flagstaff over Cape Diamond, but a sailor climbed the pole and lashed
the British colours beneath the truck. By this time men and officers
in a mob had gathered on the ramparts of the Chateau St.

Louis, all straining their eyes at a frigate fetching up close-hauled
against the wind.

Her colours ran aloft; but they were bent, sailor-fashion, in a tight
bundle, ready to be broken out when they reached the top-gallant
masthead.

An officer, looking through a glass, cried out nervously that the bundle
was white.

But this they knew without telling. Only--what would the flag carry
on its white ground? The red cross? or the golden fleurs-de-lys?

The halliards shook; the folds flew broad to the wind; and, with a
gasp, men leaped on the ramparts--flung their hats in the air and
cheered--dropped, sobbing, on their knees.

It was the red cross of England.

They were cheering yet and shouting themselves hoarse when the
_Lowestoffe_ frigate dropped anchor and saluted with all her
twenty-four guns. On the heights the French guns answered spitefully.
Levis would not believe. He had brought his artillery at length into
position, and began to knock the defences vigorously.

He lingered until the battleship _Vanguard_ and the frigate _Diane_
came sailing up into harbour; until the _Vanguard_, pressing on
with the _Lowestoffe_, took or burned the vessels which had brought
his artillery down from Montreal. Then, in the night, he decamped,
leaving his siege-train, baggage, and sick men behind him.

News of his retreat reached Murray at nightfall, and soon the English
guns were bowling round-shot after him in the dusk across the Plains of
Abraham; but by daybreak, when Murray pushed out after him, to fall on
his rear, he had hurried his columns out of reach.

Three months had passed since the flying of the signal from the
_Lowestoffe_, and now in the early days of August three British
armies were moving slowly upon Montreal, where Levis and Governor Vaudreuil
had drawn the main French forces together for a last resistance.

Murray came up the river from Quebec with twenty-four hundred men, in
thirty-two vessels and a fleet of boats in company; followed by
Lord Rollo with thirteen hundred men drawn off from dismantled
Louisbourg.

As the ships tacked up the river, with their floating batteries ranged
in line to protect the advance, bodies of French troops followed
them along the shore--regiments of white-coated infantry and horsemen in
blue jackets faced with scarlet.
Bourlamaque watched from the southern shore, Dumas from the northern.

But neither dared to attack; and day after day through the lovely
weather, past fields and settlements and woodlands, between banks which
narrowed until from deck one could listen to the song of birds on
either hand and catch the wafted scent of wild flowers, the British
wound their way to Isle Sainte-Therese below Montreal, encamped,
and waited for their comrades.

From the south came Haviland. He brought thirty-four hundred regulars,
provincials, and Indians from Crown Point on Lake Champlain, and moved
down the Richelieu, driving Bougainville before him.

Last, descending from the west by the gate of the Great Lakes, came
the Commander in Chief, the cautious Amherst, with eighteen hundred
soldiers and Indians and over eight hundred bateaux and whale-boats.

He had gathered them at Oswego in July, and now in the second week of
August had crossed the lake to its outlet, threaded the channels of the
Thousand Islands, and was bearing down on the broad river towards
Fort Amitie.

And how did it stand with Fort Amitie?

Well, to begin with, the Commandant was thoroughly perplexed.
The British must be near; by latest reports they had reached the Thousand
Islands; even hours were becoming precious, and yet most unaccountably
the reinforcements had not arrived!

What could M. de Vaudreuil be dreaming of? Already the great Indian
leader, Saint-Luc de la Come, had reached Coteau du Lac with a strong
force of militia. Dominique Guyon had been sent down with an urgent
message of inquiry. But what had been La Corne's answer? "I know not
what M. de Vaudreuil intends.

My business is to stay here and watch the rapids."
"Now what can be the meaning of that?" the Commandant demanded of his
brother.

M. Etienne shook his head pensively. "_Rusticus expectat_ . . .
I should have supposed the rapids to stand in no danger."
"Had the Governor sent word to abandon the Fort, I might have
understood.

It would have been the bitterest blow of my life--"
"Yes, yes, brother," M. Etienne murmured in sympathy.

"But to leave us here without a word! No; it is impossible.
They _must_ be on their way!"
In the strength of this confidence Dominique and Bateese had been
dispatched down the river again to meet the reinforcements and hurry
them forward.

Dominique and Bateese had been absent for a week now on this errand.
Still no relief-boats hove in sight, and the British were coming down
through the Thousand Islands.

Save in one respect the appearance of the Fort had not changed since
the evening of John a Cleeve's dismissal. The garrison cows still
graced along the river-bank, and in the clearing under the eastern
wall the Indian corn was ripe for harvest (M. Etienne suggested reaping
it; the labour, he urged, would soothe everyone's nerves).
Only on Sans Quartier's cabbage-patch the lunette now stood complete.

All the _habitants_ of Boisveyrac had been brought up to labour in its
erection, building it to the height of ten feet, with an abattis
of trees in front and a raised platform within for the riflemen.
Day after day the garrison manned it and burned powder in defence against
imaginary assaults, and by this time the Commandant and Sergeant Bedard
between them had discussed and provided against every possible mode of
attack.

Diane stood in the dawn on the _terre-plein_ of the river-wall.
The latest news of the British had arrived but a few hours since,
with a boatload of fugitives from the upstream mission-house of La
Galette, off which an armed brig lay moored with ten cannon and one
hundred men to check the advance of the flotilla.

It could do no more.

The fugitives included Father Launoy, and he had landed and begged Diane
to take his place in the crowded boat.

For himself (he said) he would stay and help to serve out ammunition
to Fort Amitie--that was, if the Commandant meant to resist.

"Do you suppose, then, that I would retire?" the Commandant asked
with indignation.

"It may be possible to do neither," suggested Father Launoy.

But this the Commandant could by no means understand.

It seemed to him that either he must be losing his wits or the whole
of New France, from M. de Vaudreuil down, was banded in a league of
folly.
"Resist? Of course I shall resist! My men are few enough, Father; but I
beg you to dismiss the notion that Fort Amitie is garrisoned by cowards."

"I will stay with you then," said the Jesuit. "I may be useful, in many
ways.

But mademoiselle will take my place in the boat and escape to Montreal."

"I also stay," answered Diane simply.

"Excuse me, but there is like to be serious work. They bring the
Iroquois with them, besides Indians from the West." Father Launoy
spoke as one reasoning with a child.

Diane drew a small pistol from her bodice. "I have thought of that, you
see."
"But M. de Noel--" He swung round upon the Commandant, expostulating.

"In a few hours," said the Commandant, meeting his eyes with a smile,
"New France will have ceased to be. I have no authority to force my child
to endure what I cannot endure myself. She has claimed a promise of
me, and I have given it."
The priest stepped back a pace, wondering. Swiftly before him passed a
vision of the Intendant's palace at Quebec, with its women and
riot and rottenness.

His hand went up to his eyes, and under the shade of it he looked upon
father and daughter--this pair of the old _noblesse_, clean, comely,
ready for the sacrifice. What had New France done for these that they
were cheerful to die for her?
She had doled them out poverty, and now, in the end, betrayal; she had
neglected her children for aliens, she had taken their revenues to feed
extortioners and wantons, and now in the supreme act of treachery,
herself falling with them, she turned too late to read in their eyes a
divine and damning love. There all the while she had lived--the true
New France, loyally trusted, innocently worshipped.
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." . . .
Father Launoy lowered his gaze to the floor.

He had looked and learned why some nations fall and others worthily
endure.

All that night the garrison had slept by their arms, until with the first
streak of day the drums called them out to their alarm-post.

Diane stood on the _terre-plein_ watching the sunrise. As yet the river
lay indistinct, a broad wan-coloured band of light stretching away
across the darkness. The outwork on the slope beneath her was a
formless shadow astir with smaller shadows equally formless.
She heard the tread of feet on the wooden platform, the clink of
side-arms and accoutrements, the soft thud of ramrods, the voice
of old Bedard, peevish and grumbling as usual.

Her face, turned to the revealing dawn, was like and yet curiously
unlike the face into which John a Cleeve had looked and taken his
dismissal; a woman's face now, serener than of old and thoughtfuller.

These two years had lengthened it to a perfect oval, adding a touch
of strength to the brow, a touch of decision to the chin; and,
lest these should overweight it, had removed from the eyes their clouded
trouble and left them clear to the depths. The elfin Diane, the
small woodland-haunting Indian, no longer looked forth from those
windows; no search might find her captive shadow behind them.
She had died young, or had faded away perhaps and escaped back to
her native forests.

But she is not all forgotten, this lost playmate. Some trick of
gesture reappears as Diane lifts her face suddenly towards the flagstaff
tower. The watchman there has spied something on the river, and is
shouting the news from the summit.

His arm points down the river. What has he seen? "Canoes!"--the
relief is at hand then! No: there is only one canoe.

It comes swiftly and yet the day overtakes and passes it, spreading a
causeway of light along which it shoots to the landing-quay.

Two men paddle it--Dominique and Bateese Guyon. Their faces are
haggard, their eyes glassy with want of sleep, their limbs so stiff
that they have to be helped ashore.

The Commandant steps forward. "What news, my children?" he asks.
His voice is studiously cheerful.

Dominique shakes his head.

"There is no relief, Monseigneur."
"You have met none, you mean?"
"None is coming, Monseigneur. We have heard it in Montreal."

CHAPTER XXII.

DOMINIQUE.

"Montreal?"
While they stood wondering, a dull wave of sound broke on their ears
from the westward, and another, and yet another--the booming of
cannon far up the river.

"That will be at La Galette," said the Commandant, answering the
question in Dominique's eyes.

"Come up to your quarters, my children, and get some sleep.

We have work before us." He motioned the others to fall back out of hearing
while he and Dominique mounted the slope together. "You had audience,
then, of the Governor?" he asked.

"He declined to see us, Monseigneur, and I do not blame him, since he
could not send us back telling you to fight. Doubtless it does not
become one in M. de Vaudreuil's position to advise the other thing--
aloud."
"I do not understand you. Why could not M. de Vaudreuil order me to fight?"

Dominique stared at his master. "Why, Monseigneur,--seeing that he sends
no troops, it would be a queer message.

He could not have the face."
"Yet he must be intending to strike at the English coming from Quebec?"

"They are already arrived and encamped at Isle Sainte-Therese below the
city, and another army has come down the Richelieu from the south and
joined them."
"It is clear as daylight. M. de Vaudreuil must be meaning to attack
them instantly, and therefore he cannot spare a detachment--You follow
me?"
"It may be so, Monseigneur," Dominique assented doubtfully.

"'May be so'! It must be so! But unhappily he does not know of
this third army descending upon him; or, rather, he does not know how
near it is. Yet, to win time for him, we must hold up this army at all
costs."
"It is I, Monseigneur, who am puzzled. You cannot be intending--"

"Eh? Speak it out, man!"
"You cannot be intending to await these English!"
"Name of thunder! What else do you suppose? Pray, my dear Dominique,
use your wits.

We have to gain time, I tell you--time for our friends below at
Montreal."
"With twenty odd men against as many hundreds? Oh, pardon me, Monseigneur,
but I cannot bring my mind to understand you."
"But since it gains time--"
"They will not stay to snap up such a mouthful. They will sail past your
guns, laughing; unless--great God, Monseigneur! If in truth you intend
this folly, where is Mademoiselle Diane?

I did not see her in any of the boats from La Galette. Whither have you
sent her, and in whose charge?"
"She is yonder on the wall, looking down on us. She will stay; I
have given her my promise."
Dominique came to a halt, white as a ghost. His tongue touched his dry
lips. "Monseigneur!"--the cry broke from him, and he put out a hand and
caught his seigneur by the coat sleeve.

"What is the matter with the man?" The Commandant plucked his arm away
and stood back, outraged by this breach of decorum.

But Dominique, having found his voice, continued heedless. "She must go!
She _shall_ go!

It is a wickedness you are doing--do you hear me, Monseigneur?--a
wickedness, a wickedness! But you shall not keep her here; I will not
allow it!"
"Are you stark mad, Dominique Guyon?"
"I will not allow it. I love her, I tell you--there, I have said it!
Listen again, Monseigneur, if you do not understand: I love her, I love
her--oh, get that into your head! I love her, and will not allow it!"

"Certainly your brain is turned. Go to your quarters, sir; it must be
sleep you want. Yes, yes, my poor fellow, you are pale as a corpse! Go,
get some sleep, and when you wake we will forget all this."
"Before God, Monseigneur, I am telling you the truth.

I need no sleep but the sleep of death, and that is like to come soon
enough.
But since we were children I have loved your daughter, and in the strength
of that love I forbid you to kill her."
The Commandant swung round on his heel.

"Follow me, if you please."
He led the way to his orderly-room, seated himself at the table,
and so confronted the young man, who stood humbly enough, though
with his pale face twitching.

"Dominique Guyon, once in my life I made a great mistake; and that was
when, to save my poor son's honour, I borrowed money of one of my
_censitaires_. I perceive now what hopes you have nursed, feeding
them on my embarrassments. You saw me impoverished, brought low,
bereaved by God's will of my only son; you guessed that I lay awake
of nights, troubled by the thought of my daughter, who must inherit
poverty; and on these foundations you laid your schemes. You dreamed
of becoming a _gentilhomme_, of marrying my daughter, of sitting
in my chair at Boisveyrac and dealing justice among the villagers.
And a fine dream it seemed to you, eh?" He paused.
"Monseigneur," Dominique answered simply, "you say some things that
are true; but you say them so that all seems false and vile. Yes,
I have dreamed dreams--even dreams of becoming a _gentilhomme_, as
you say; but my dreams were never wicked as you colour them, seeing
that they all flowed from love of Mademoiselle Diane, and returned
to her."
He glanced towards the window, through which the pair could see
Diane pacing the _terre-plein_ in the sunlight. The sight kindled
the elder man to fresh anger.
"If," said he harshly, "I tried to explain to you exactly how you
insult us, it would be wasting my time and yours; and, however much
you deserve it, I have no wish to wound your feelings beyond need.
Let us come to business." He unlocked a drawer and drew out three
bundles of notes. "As my farmer you will know better than I the
current discount on these. You come from Montreal. At what price
was the Government redeeming its paper there?"
As he unfolded them, Dominique glanced at the notes, and then let
his gaze wander out through the window.
"Is Monseigneur proposing to pay me the interest on his bonds?"
"To be sure I am." 
"I do not ask for it."
"Devil care I if you ask or not! Count the notes, if you please."

Dominique took a packet in his hands for a moment, still with his
eyes bent absently on the window, fingered the notes, and laid them
back on the table.
"Monseigneur will do me the justice to own that in former times I
have given him good advice in business. I beg him to keep these
notes for a while. In a month or two their value will have trebled,
whichever Government redeems them."
The Commandant struck the table. "In a few hours, sir, I shall be
a dead man. My honour cannot wait so long; and since the question
is now of honour, not of business, you will keep your advice to
yourself.A fire, in spite of the damp
weather, blazed cheerfully in the midst of the clearing. There was
commotion in the huts, every door was opened, and evil-smelling people
poured forth with cries and questions. The leader of the newly arrived
party bowed himself before a short, square man whom we have met before,
and spoke something in his ear. Fazir Khan looked up sharply at Lewis,
then laughed, and spoke something to his men in his own tongue.

Lewis comprehended barely a few words of Chil, the Bada tongue, and he
knew little of the frontier speeches. But to his amazement the chief
addressed him in tolerable, if halting, English. It was not for nothing
that Fazir Khan had harried the Border and sojourned incognito in every
town in North India.

"Allah has given thee to us, my son," he said sweetly. "It is vain to
fight against God. I have heard of thee as the Englishman who would
know more than is good for man to know. You were at Forza to-day."

Lewis's temper was at its worst. "I was at Forza to-day, and I watched
your people running. Had they waited a little longer we should have
slain them all, and then have come for you."

The chief smiled unpleasantly. "My people did not fight at Forza
to-day. That was but the sport to draw on fools. Soon we shall fight
in earnest, but in a different place, and thou shalt not see."

"I am your prisoner," said Lewis grimly, "and it is in your power to do
with me as you please. But remember that for every hair of my head my
people will take the lives of four of your cattle-lifters."

"That is an old story," said Fazir Khan wearily, "and I have heard it
many times before. You speak boldly like a man, and because you are not
afraid I will tell you the truth. In a very little there will be not
one of your people in the land, only the Bada-Mawidi, and others whom I
do not name."

"That is a still older story. I have heard it since I was in my
mother's arms. Do you think to frighten me by such a tale?"

"Let us not talk of fear," said the chief with some politeness. "There
are two races in your people, one which talks and allies itself with
Bengalis and swine, and one which lives in hard places and follows war.
The second I love, and had it been possible, I would have allied myself
with it and driven the others into the sea." This petty chieftain spoke
with the pride of one who ruled the destinies of the earth.

Lewis was unimpressed. "I am tired of your riddles," he said. "If you
would kill me have done with it. If you would keep me prisoner, give me
food and a place to sleep. But if you would be merciful, let me go and
show me the way to Bardur. Life is too short for waiting."

Fazir Khan laughed loudly, and spoke something to his people.

"You shall join in our company for the night," he said. "I have eaten
of the salt of your people and I do not murder without cause. Also I
love a bold man."

Lewis was led into the largest of the huts and given food and warm Hunza
wine. The place was hot to suffocation; large beads of moisture stood
on the mud walls, and the smell of uncleanly clothing and sweating limbs
was difficult to stand. But the man's complexion was hard, and he made
an excellent supper. Thereafter he became utterly drowsy. He had it in
his mind to question this Fazir Khan about his dark sayings, but his
eyes closed as if drawn by a magnet and his head nodded. It may have
been something in the wine; it may have been merely the vigil of the
last night, and the toil of the past hours. At any rate his mind was
soon a blank, and when a servant pointed out a heap of skins in a
corner, he flung himself on them and was at once asleep. He was utterly
at their mercy, but his course, had he known it, was the wisest. Even a
Bada's treachery has its limits, and he will not knife a confident
guest. The men talked and wrangled, ate and drank, and finally snored
around him, but he slept through it all like a sleeper of Ephesus.

When he woke the hut was cleared. The village slept late but he had
slept later, for the sun was piercing the unglazed windows and making
pattern-work on the earth floor. He had slept soundly a sleep haunted
with nightmares, and he was still dazed as he peered out into the square
where men were passing. He saw a sentry at the door of his hut, which
reminded him of his condition. All the long night he had been far away,
fishing, it seemed to him, in a curious place which was Glenavelin, and
yet was ever changing to a stranger glen. It was moonlight, still,
bright and warm on all the green hill shoulders. He remembered that he
caught nothing, but had been deliriously happy. People seemed passing
on the bank, Arthur and Wratislaw and Julia Heston, and all his
boyhood's companions. He talked to them pleasantly, and all the while
he was moving up the glen which lay so soft in the moonlight. He
remembered looking everywhere for Alice Wishart, but her face was
wanting. Then suddenly the place seemed to change. The sleeping glen
changed to a black sword-cut among rocks, his friends disappeared, and
only George was left. He remembered that George cried out something and
pointed to the gorge, and he knew--though how he knew it he could not
tell--that the lost Alice was somewhere there before him in the darkness
and he must go towards her. Then he had wakened shivering, for in that
darkness there was terror as well as joy.

He went to the door, only to find himself turned back by the sheep-skin
sentry, who half unsheathed for his benefit an ugly knife. He found
that his revolver, his sole weapon, had been taken while he slept.
Escape was impossible till his captors should return.

A day of burning sun had followed on the storm. Out of doors in the
scorching glare from the rock there seemed an extraordinary bustle. It
was like the preparations for a march, save that there seemed no method
in the activity. One man burnished a knife, a dozen were cleaning
rifles, and all wore the evil-smelling finery with which the hillman
decks his person for war. Their long oiled hair was tied in a sort of
rude knot, new and fuller turbans adorned the head, and on the feet were
stout slippers of Bokhara make. Lewis had keen eyesight, and he strove
to read the marks on the boxes of cartridges which stood in a corner.
It was not the well-known Government mark which usually brands stolen
ammunition. The three crosses with the crescent above--he had seen them
before, but his memory failed him. It might have been at Bardur in the
inn; it might have been at home in the house of some great traveller.
At any rate the sight boded no good to himself or the border peace. He
thought of George waiting alone at Nazri, and then obediently warning
the people at Khautmi. By this time Andover would know he was missing,
and men would be out on a very hopeless search. At any rate he had done
some good, for if the Badas meant marching they would find the garrisons
prepared.

About noon there was a bustle in the square and Fazir Khan with a dozen
of his tail swaggered in. He came straight to the hut, and two men
entered and brought out the prisoner. Lewis stiffened his back and
prepared not reluctantly for a change in the situation. He had no
special fear of this smiling, sinister chieftain. So far he had been
spared, and now it seemed unlikely that in the midst of this bustle of
war there would be room for the torture which alone he dreaded. So he
met the chief's look squarely, and at the moment he thanked the lot
which had given him two more inches of height.

"I have sent for thee, my son," said Fazir Khan, "that you may see how
great my people is."

"I have seen," said Lewis, looking round. "You have a large collection
of jackals, but you will not bring many back."

The notion tickled Fazir Khan and he laughed with great good-humour.
"So, so," he cried. "Behold how great is the wisdom of youth. I will
tell you a secret, my son. In a little the Bada-Mawidi, my people, will
be in Bardur and a little later in the fat corn lands of the south, and
I, Fazir Khan, will sit in King's palaces." He looked contemptuously
round at his mud walls, his heart swelling with pride.

"What the devil do you mean?" Lewis asked with rising suspicion. This
was not the common talk of a Border cateran.

"I mean what I mean," said the other. "In a little all the world shall
see. But because I have a liking for a bold cockerel like thee, I will
speak unwisely. The days of your people are numbered. This very night
there are those coming from the north who will set their foot on your
necks."

Lewis went sick at heart. A thousand half-forgotten suspicions called
clamorously. This was the secret of the burlesque at Forza, and the new
valour of the Badas. He saw Marker's game with the fatal clearness of
one who is too late. He had been given a chance of a little piece of
service to avert his suspicions. Marker had fathomed him well as one
who must satisfy a restless conscience but had no stomach for anything
beyond. Doubtless he thought that now he would be enjoying the rest
after labour at Forza, flattering himself on saving a garrison, when all
the while the force poured down which was to destroy an empire. An army
from the north, backed and guided by every Border half-breed and
outlaw--what hope of help in God's name was to be found in the sleepy
forts and the unsuspecting Bardur?

And the Kashmir and the Punjab? A train laid in every town and village.
Supplies in readiness, communications waiting to be held, railways ready
for capture. Europe was on the edge of a volcano. He saw an outbreak
there which would keep Britain employed at home, while the great power
with her endless forces and bottomless purse poured her men over the
frontier. But at the thought of the frontier he checked himself. There
was no road by which an army could march; if there was any it could be
blocked by a handful. A week's, a day's delay would save the north, and
the north would save the empire.

His voice came out of his throat with a crack in it like an old man's.

"There is no road through the mountains. I have been there before and I
know."

Again Fazir Khan smiled. "I use no secrecy to my friends. There is a
way, though all men do not know it. From Nazri there is a valley
running towards the sunrise. At the head there is a little ridge easily
crossed, and from that there is a dry channel between high precipices.
It is not the width of a man's stature, so even the sharp eyes of my
brother might miss it. Beyond that there is a sandy tableland, and then
another valley, and then plains."

The plan of the place was clear in Lewis's brain. He remembered each
detail. The long nullah on which he had looked from the hill-tops had,
then, an outlet, and did not end, as he had guessed, in a dead wall of
rock. Fool and blind! to have missed so glorious a chance!

He stood staring dumbly around him, unconscious that he was the
laughingstock of all. Then he looked at the chief.

"Am I your prisoner?" he asked hoarsely.

"Nay," said the other good-humouredly, "thou art free. We have
over-much work on hand to-day to be saddled with captives."

"Then where is Nazri?" he asked.

The chief laughed a loud laugh of tolerant amusement. "Hear to the bold
one," he cried. "He will not miss the great spectacle. See, I will
show you the road," and he pointed out certain landmarks. "For one of
my own people it is a journey of four hours; for thee it will be
something more. But hurry, and haply the game will not have begun. If
the northern men take thee I will buy thy life."

Four hours; the words rang in his brain like a sentence. He had no
hope, but a wild craving to attempt the hopeless. George might have
returned to Nazri to wait; it was the sort of docile thing that George
would do. In any case not five miles from Nazri was the end of the
north road and a little telegraph hut used by the Khautmi forts. The
night would be full moonlight; and by night the army would come. His
watch had been stolen, but he guessed by the heavens that it was some
two hours after noon. Five hours would bring him to Nazri at six, in
another he might be at the hut before the wires were severed. It was a
crazy chance, but it was his all, and meanwhile these grinning tribesmen
were watching him like some curious animal. They had talked to him
freely to mock his feebleness. His dominant wish was to escape from
their sight.

He turned to the descent. "I am going to Nazri," he said.

The chief held out his pistol. "Take your little weapon. We have no
need of such things when great matters are on hand. Allah speed you,
brother! A sure foot and a keen eye may bring you there in time for the
sport." And, still laughing, he turned to enter the hut.


CHAPTER XXX

EVENING IN THE HILLS

The airless heat of afternoon lay on the rocks and dry pastures. The
far snow-peaks, seen for a moment through a rift in the hills, shimmered
in the glassy stillness. No cheerful sound of running water filled the
hollows, for all was parched and bare with the violence of intemperate
suns and storms. Soon he was out of sight and hearing of the village,
travelling in a network of empty watercourses, till at length he came to
the long side of mountain which he knew of old as the first landmark of
the way. A thin ray of hope began to break up his despair. He knew now
the exact distance he had to travel, for his gift had always been an
infallible instinct for the lie of a countryside. The sun was still
high in the heavens; with any luck he should be at Nazri by six o'clock.

He was still sore with wounded pride. That Marker should have divined
his weakness and left open to him a task in which he might rest with a
cheap satisfaction was bitter to his vanity. The candour of his mind
made him grant its truth, but his new-born confidence was sadly
dissipated. And he felt, too, the futility of his efforts. That one
man alone in this precipitous wilderness should hope to wake the Border
seemed a mere nightmare of presumption. But it was possible, he said to
himself. Time only was needed. If he could wake Bardur and the north,
and the forts on the passes, there would be delay enough to wake India.
If George were at Nazri there would be two for the task; if not, there
would be one at least willing and able.

It was characteristic of the man that the invasion was bounded for him
by Nazri and Bardur. He had no ears for ultimate issues and the ruin of
an empire. Another's fancy would have been busy on the future; Lewis
saw only that pass at Nazri and the telegraph-hut beyond. He must get
there and wake the Border; then the world might look after itself. As
he ran, half-stumbling, along the stony hillside he was hard at work
recounting to himself the frontier defences. The Forza and Khautmi
garrisons might hold the pass for an hour if they could be summoned. It
meant annihilation, but that was in the bargain. Thwaite was strong
enough in Bardur, but the town might give him trouble of itself, and he
was not a man of resources. After Bardur there was no need of thought.
Two hours after the telegraph clicked in the Nazri hut, the north of
India would have heard the news and be bestirring itself for work. In
five hours all would be safe, unless Bardur could be taken and the wires
cut. There might be treason in the town, but that again was not his
affair. Let him but send the message before sunset, and he would still
have time to get to Khautmi, and with good luck hold the defile for
sixty minutes. The thought excited him wildly. His face dripped with
sweat, his boots were cut with rock till the leather hung in shreds, and
a bleeding arm showed through the rents in his sleeve. But he felt no
physical discomfort, only the exhilaration of a rock climber with the
summit in sight, or a polo player with a clear dribble before him to the
goal. At last he was playing a true game of hazard, and the chance gave
him the keenest joy.

All the hot afternoon he scrambled till he came to the edge of a new
valley. Nazri must lie beyond, he reasoned, and he kept to the higher
ground. But soon he was mazed among precipitous shelves which needed
all his skill. He had to bring his long stride down to a very slow and
cautious pace, and, since he was too old a climber to venture rashly, he
must needs curb his impatience. He suffered the dull recoil of his
earlier vigour. While he was creeping on this accursed cliff the
minutes were passing, and every second lessening his chances. He was in
a fever of unrest, and only a happy fortune kept him from death. But at
length the place was passed, and the mountain shelved down to a plateau.
A wide view lay open to the eye, and Lewis blinked and hesitated. He
had thought Nazri lay below him, and lo! there was nothing but a tangle
of black watercourses.

The sun had begun to decline over the farther peak, and the man's heart
failed him utterly. These unkind stony hills had been his ruin. He was
lost in the most formidable country on God's earth, lost! when his
whole soul cried out for hurry. He could have wept with misery, and
with a drawn face he sat down and forced himself to think.

Suddenly a long, narrow black cleft in the farther tableland caught his
eye. He took the direction from the sun and looked again. This must be
the Nazri Pass, which he had never before that day heard of. He saw
where it ended in a stony valley. Once there he had but to follow the
nullah and cross the little ridge to come to Nazri.

Weariness was beginning to grow on him, but the next miles were the
quickest of the day. He seemed to have the foot of a chamois. Down the
rocky hillside, across the chaos of boulders, and up into the dark
nullah he ran like a maniac. His mouth was parched with thirst, and he
stopped for a moment in the valley bottom to swallow some rain-water.
At last he found himself in the Nazri valley, with the thin sword-cut
showing dark in the yellow evening. Another mile and he would be at the
camping-place, and in five more at the hut.

He kept high up on the ridge, for the light had almost gone and the
valley was perilous. It must be hideously late, eight o'clock or more,
he thought, and his despair made him hurry his very weary limbs.
Suddenly in the distant hollow he saw the gleam of a fire. He stopped
abruptly and then quickened with a cry of joy. It must be the faithful
George still waiting in the place appointed. Now there would be two to
the task. But it was too late, he bitterly reflected. In a little the
moon would rise, and then at any moment the van of the invader might
emerge from the defile. He might warn Bardur, but before anything could
be done the enemy would be upon them. And then there would be a
southward march upon a doubtful and half-awakened country, and then--he
knew not.

But there was one other way. It had not occurred to him before, for it
is not an expedient which comes often to men nowadays, save to such as
are fools and outcasts. We are a wise and provident age, mercantile in
our heroics, seeking a solid profit for every sacrifice. But this
man--a child of the latter day--had not the new self-confidence, and he
was at the best high-strung, unwise, and unworldly. Besides, he was
broken with toil and excited with adventure. The last dying rays of the
sun were resting on the far snow walls, and the great heart of the west
burned in one murky riot of flame. But to the north, whence came
danger, there was a sea of yellow light, islanded with faint roseate
clouds like some distant happy country. The air of dusk was thin and
chill but stirring as wine to the blood, and all the bare land was for
the moment a fairy realm, mystic, intangible and untrodden. The
frontier line ran below the camping place; here he was over the border,
beyond the culture of his kind. He was alone, for in this adventure
George would not share. He would earn nothing, in all likelihood he
would achieve nothing; but by the grace of God he might gain some
minutes' respite. He would be killed; but that, again, was no business
of his. At least he could but try, for this was his one shred of hope
remaining.

The thought, once conceived, could not be rejected. He was no coward or
sophist to argue himself out of danger. He laid no flattering unction
to his soul that he had done his best while another way remained
untried. For this type of man may be half-hearted and a coward in
little matters, but he never deceives himself. We have all our own
virtues and their defects. I am a well-equipped and confident person,
walking bluffly through the world, looking through and down upon my
neighbours, the incarnation of honesty; but I can find excuses for
myself when I desire them, I hug my personal esteem too close, and a
thousand to one I am too great a coward at heart to tell myself the
naked truth. You, on the other hand, are vacillating and ill at your
ease. You shrink from the hards of life which I steer happily through.
But you have no delusions with yourself, and the odds are that when the
time comes you may choose the "high that proved too high" and achieve
the impossibly heroic.

A tired man with an odd gleam in his eye came out of the shadows to the
firelight and called George by name.

"My God, Lewis, I am glad to see you! I thought you were lost. Food?"
and he displayed the resources of his larder.

Lewis hunted for the water-bottle and quenched his thirst. Then he ate
ravenously of the cold wild-fowl and oatcake which George had provided.
He was silent and incurious till he had satisfied his wants; then he
looked up to meet George's questions.

"Where on earth have you been? Andover said you started out to come
here last night. I did as you told me, you know, and when you didn't
come I roused the Khautmi people. They swore a good deal but turned
out, and after an infernal long climb we got to Forza. We roused up
Andover after a lot of trouble, and he took us in and gave us supper.
He said you had gone off hours ago, and that the Bada-Mawidi business
had been more or less of a fraud. So I slept there and came back here
in the morning in case you should turn up. Been shooting all day, but
it was lonely work and I didn't get the right hang of the country.
These beggars there are jolly little use," and he jerked his head in the
direction of the native servants. "What _have_ you been after?"

"I? Oh, I've been in queer places. I fell into the hands of the Badas
a couple of hours after I left Forza. There was a storm up there and I
got lost in the mist. They took me up to a village and kept me there
all night. And then I heard news--my God, such news! They let me go
because they thought I could do no harm and I ran most of the way here.
Marker has scored this time, old man. You know how he has been going
about all North India for the last year or two getting things much his
own way. Well, to-night when the moon rises the great blow is to be
struck. It seems there is a pass to the north of this; I knew the place
but I didn't know of the road. There is an army coming down that place
in an hour or so. It is the devil's own business, but it has got to be
faced. We must warn Bardur, and trust to God that Bardur may warn the
south. You know the telegraph hut at the end of the road, when you
begin to climb up the ravine to the place? You must get down there at
once, for every moment is precious."

George had listened with staring eyes to the tale. "I can't believe
it," he managed to ejaculate. "God, man! it's invasion, an unheard-of
thing!"

"It's the most desperate truth, unheard-of or no. The whole thing lies
in our hands. They cannot come till after midnight, and by that time
Thwaite may be ready in Bardur, and the Khautmi men may be holding the
road. That would delay them for a little, and by the time they took
Bardur they might find the south in arms. It wouldn't matter a straw if
it were an ordinary filibustering business. But I tell you it's a great
army, and everything is prepared for it. Marker has been busy for
months. There will be outbreaks in every town in the north. The
railways and arsenals will be captured before ever the enemy appears.
There will be a native rising. That was to be bargained for. But God
only knows how the native troops have been tampered with. That man was
as clever as they make, and he has had a free hand. Oh the blind
fools!"

George had turned, and was buttoning the top button of his shooting-coat
against the chilly night wind. "What shall I say to Thwaite?" he
asked.

"Oh, anything. Tell him it's life or death. Tell him the facts, and
don't spare. You'll have to impress on the telegraph clerk its
importance first and that will take time. Tell him to send to Gilgit
and Srinagar, and then to the Indus Valley. He must send into Chitral
too and warn Armstrong. Above all things the Kohistan railway must be
watched, because it must be their main card. Lord! I wish I understood
the game better. Heaven knows it isn't my profession. But Thwaite will
understand if you scare him enough. Tell him that Bardur must be held
ready for siege at any moment. You understand how to work the thing?"

George nodded. "There'll be nobody there, so I suppose I'll have to
break the door open. I think I remember the trick of the business.
_Then_, what do I do?"

"Get up to Khautmi as fast as you can shin it. Better take the servants
and send them before you while you work the telegraph. I suppose
they're trustworthy. Get them to warn Mitchinson and St. John. They
must light the fires on the hills and collect all the men they can spare
to hold the road. Of course it's a desperate venture. We'll probably
all be knocked on the head, but we must risk it. If we can stop the
beggars for one half-hour we'll give Thwaite a better chance to set his
house in order. How I'd sell my soul to see a strong man in Bardur!
That will be the key of the position. If the place is uncaptured
to-morrow morning, and your wires have gone right, the chief danger on
this side will be past. There will be little risings of wasps' nests up
and down the shop, but we can account for them if this army from the
north is stopped."

"I wonder how many of us will see to-morrow morning," said George
dismally. He was not afraid of death, but he loved the pleasant world.

"Good-bye," said Lewis abruptly, holding out his hand.

The action made George realize for the first time the meaning of his
errand.

"But, I say, Lewie, hold on. What the deuce are you going to do?"

"I am dog-tired," said the impostor. "I must wait here and rest. I
should only delay you." And always, as if to belie his fatigue, his eyes
were turning keenly to the north. At any moment while he stood there
bandying words there might come the sound of marching, and the van of
the invaders issue from the defile.

"But, hang it, you know. I can't allow this. The Khautmi men mayn't
reach you in time, and I'm dashed if I am going to leave you here to be
chawed up by Marker. You're coming with me."

"Don't be an ass," said Lewis kindly. This parting, one in ignorance,
the other in too certain knowledge, was very bitter "They can't be here
before midnight. They were to start at moonrise, and the moon is only
just up. You'll be back in heaps of time, and, besides, we'll soon all
be in the same box."

It was a false card to play, for George grew obstinate at once. "Then
I'm going to be in the same box as you from the beginning. Do you
really think I am going to desert you? Hang it, you're more important
than Bardur."

"Oh, for God's sake, listen to reason," Lewis cried in despair. "You
must go at once. I can't or I would. It's our only chance. It's a
jolly good chance of death anyway, but it's a naked certainty unless you
do this. Think of the women and children and the people at home. A
breastwork--call it a lunette--half-way down the slope yonder, so placed
as to command the landing-place at close musket range--it might be useful,
eh? There will be trouble with Polyphile Cartier--'Sans Quartier,'
as they call him.

He is proud of his cabbages, and we might have to evict them; yes,
certainly our lunette would impinge upon his cabbages. But the safety
of the Fort would, of course, override all such considerations."
He caught John by the arm and hurried him along for a better view
of Sans Quartier's cabbage-patch.

And just then Mademoiselle Diane came walking swiftly towards them from
the end of the _terre-plein_ by the flagstaff tower. An instant later
the head and shoulders of Dominique Guyon appeared above the
ascent.

Clearly he was following her; and as she drew near John read, or thought
he read, a deep trouble in the child's eyes.

But from her eyes his glance fell upon a bundle that she carried, and his
own cheek paled.

For the bundle was a white tunic, and it took a second glance to
assure him that the tunic was a new one and not Sergeant Barboux's!

"Eh? What did I tell you? She has been rifling the stores already!" Here
the Commandant caught sight of Dominique and hailed him.
"Hola, Dominique!"
Dominique halted for a moment and then came slowly forward; while the
girl, having greeted John with a grown woman's dignity, stood close by
her father's elbow.

"Dominique, how many men can you spare me from Boisveyrac, now that the
harvest is over?"
"For what purpose do you wish men, Monseigneur?"
"Eh? That is my affair, I hope."
The young man's face darkened, but he controlled himself to say humbly,
"Monseigneur rebukes me with justice. I should not have spoken so; but
it was in alarm for his interests."

"You mean that you are unwilling to spare me a single man?
Come, come, my friend--the harvest is gathered; and, apart from that,
my interests are the King's. Positively you must spare me half a dozen
for his Majesty's _corvee_."
"The harvest is gathered, to be sure; but no one at Boisveyrac can be
trusted to finish the stacks. They are a good-for-nothing lot; and
now Damase, the best thatcher among them, has, I hear, been sent
up to Fort Frontenac along with 'Polyte Latulippe."

"By my orders."

Dominique bent his eyes on the ground.

"Monseigneur's orders shall be obeyed. May I have his permission to return
at once to Boisveyrac?--at least, as soon as we have discussed certain
matters of business?"
"Business? But since it is not convenient just now--" It seemed to John
that the old gentleman had suddenly grown uneasy.

"I speak only of certain small repairs: the matter of Lagasse's holding,
for example," said Dominique tranquilly.

"The whole will not detain Monseigneur above ten minutes."
"Ah, to be sure!" The Commandant's voice betrayed relief. "Come to
my orderly-room, then. You will excuse me, M. a Clive?"
He turned to go, and Dominique stepped aside to allow the girl to accompany
her father. But she made no sign. He shot a look at her and sullenly
descended the terrace at his seigneur's heels.

Mademoiselle Diane's brow grew clear again as the sound of his footsteps
died away, and presently she faced John with a smile so gay and frank
that (although, quite involuntarily, he had been watching her) the change
startled him. There was something in this girl at once innocently candid
and curiously elusive; to begin with, he could not decide whether
to think of her as child or woman. Last night her eyes had rested
on him with a child's open wonder, and a minute ago in Dominique's
presence she had seemed to shrink close to her father with a child's
timidity.

Now, gaily as she smiled, her bearing had grown dignified and
self-possessed.

"You are not to leave me, please, M. a Clive--seeing that I came
expressly to find you."
John lifted his hat with mock gravity. "You do me great honour,
mademoiselle. And Dominique?" he added. "Was he also coming in search
of me?"

She frowned, and turning towards a cannon in the embrasure behind her,
spread the white tunic carefully upon it. "Dominique Guyon is
tiresome," she said. "At times, as you have heard, he speaks with too
much freedom to my father; but it is the freedom of old service.
The Guyons have farmed Boisveyrac for our family since first the Seigniory
was built." She seemed about to say more, but checked herself, and stood
smoothing an arm of the tunic upon the gun.
"Ah, here is Felicite!" she exclaimed, as a stout middle-aged woman came
bustling along the terrace towards them. "You have kept me waiting,
Felicite. And, good heavens!

what is that you carry?
Did I not tell you that I would get Jeremie to find me a tunic from the
stores? See, I have one already."
"But this is not from the stores, mademoiselle!" panted Felicite, as
she came to a halt. "It appears that monsieur brought his tunic with
him--Jeremie told me he had seen it hanging by his bed in the sick
ward--and here it is, see you!" She displayed it triumphantly, spreading
its skirts to the sunshine. "A trifle soiled! but it will save us all
the trouble in the world with the measurements--eh, mademoiselle?"

Diane's eyes were on John's face. For a moment or two she did not answer,
but at length said slowly:

"Nevertheless you shall measure monsieur. Have you the tapes? Good:
give me one, with the blue chalk, and I will check off your measurements."

She seated herself on the gun-carriage and drew the two tunics on to her
lap. John shivered as she touched the dead sergeant's.

Felicite grinned as she advanced with the tape. "Do not be shy of me,
monsieur," she encouraged him affably. "You are a hero, and I
myself am the mother of eight, which is in its way heroic.
There should be a good understanding between us. Raise your arms a little,
pray, while I take first of all the measure of your chest."
Her two arms--and they were plump, not to say brawny--went about him.
"Thirty-eight," she announced, after examining the tape. It's long since
I have embraced one so slight."
"Thirty-eight," repeated Mademoiselle Diane, puckering up her lips
and beginning to measure off the _pouces_ across the breast and
back of Sergeant Barboux's tunic.

"Thirty-eight, did you say?"
"Thirty-eight, mademoiselle. We must remember that these brave defenders
of ours sometimes pad themselves a little; it will be nothing amiss
if you allow for forty. Eh, monsieur?" Felicite laughed up in John's
face. "But you find some difficulty, mademoiselle. Can I help you?"

"I thank you--it is all right," Diane answered hurriedly.

"Waist, twenty-nine," Felicite continued. "One might even say twenty-eight,
only monsieur is drawing in his breath."
"Where are the scissors, Felicite?"

demanded her mistress, who had carefully smuggled them beneath her skirt
as she sat.

"The scissors? Of a certainty now I brought them--but the sight of that
heathen Ojibway, when he gave me the tunic, was enough to make any
decent woman faint! I shook like an aspen, if you will credit me, all
the way across the drill-ground, and perhaps the scissors . . . no,
indeed, I cannot find them . . . but if mademoiselle will excuse me
while I run back for another pair. . . ." She bustled off towards the
Commandant's quarters.

Mademoiselle Diane reached down a hand to the tunic which had fallen
at her feet, and drew it on to her lap again, as if to examine it.

But her eyes were searching John's face.

"Why do you shiver?" she asked.

"I beg of you not to touch it, mademoiselle.

It--it hurts to see you touching it."
"Did you kill him?"

"Of whom is mademoiselle speaking?"
"Pray do not pretend to be stupid, monsieur. I am speaking of that
other man--the owner of this tunic--the sergeant who took you into
the forest.

Did you kill him?"
"He died in fair fight, mademoiselle."
"It was a duel, then?" He did not answer, and she continued, "I can trust
your face, monsieur. I am sure it was only in fair fight.
But why should you think me afraid to touch _this_? Oh, why, M. a Clive,
will men take it so cruelly for granted that we women are afraid of the
thought of blood--nay, even that we owe it to ourselves to be afraid?
If we are what you all insist we should be, what right have we to be
born in these times? Think of New France fighting now for dear life--ah!
why should I ask _you_ to think, who have bled for her? Yet you
would have me shudder at the touch of a stained piece of cloth; and
while you hold these foolish prejudices, can you wonder that New France
has no Jeanne d'Arc? When I was at the Ursulines at Quebec, they
used to pray to her on this side of sainthood, and ask for her intercession;
but what they taught was needlework."
"The world has altered since her time, mademoiselle," said John, falsely
and lamely.

"Has it? It burnt her; even in those days it did its best according
to its lights," she answered bitterly. "Only in these days there are
no heroines to burn. No heroines . . . no fires . . . and even in our
needlework we must be demure, and not touch a garment that has been
touched with blood! Monsieur, was this man a coward?" She lifted the
tunic.

"He was a vain fellow and a bully, mademoiselle, but by no means a
coward."

"He fought for France?"
"Yes; and, I believe, with credit."
"Then, monsieur, because he was a bully, I commend the man who killed
him fairly. And because he was brave and fought for France, I am
proud to handle his tunic."
As John a Cleeve gazed at her kindled face, the one thought that rose
above his own shame was a thought that her earnestness marvellously
made her beautiful.

CHAPTER XV.

THE SECOND DISPATCH.

Dominique Guyon departed shortly before noon; and a week later half a
dozen _habitants_ arrived from Boisveyrac to work at the entrenchment
which the Commandant had already opened across Sans Quartier's cabbage
plot. The Commandant himself donned a blouse and dug with the rest;
and M. Etienne; and even old Jeremie Tripier, though grumbling over his
rheumatism almost as bitterly as Sans Quartier over his
wasted cabbages. Every one, in fact, toiled, and with a will, at the
King's _corvee_: every one, that is, except the women, and John,
and Menehwehna (whose Indian dignity revolted against spade-work),
and old Father Joly, the chaplain of the fort, who was too infirm.

From him, as they sat together and watched the diggers, John learned much
of the fort's history, and something, too, of his hosts'; for Father
Joly delighted in gossip, and being too deaf to derive much profit from
asking questions kept the talk to himself--greatly to John's relief.

His gossip, be it said, was entirely innocent.
The good man seemed to love every one in his small world, except
Father Launoy. And again this exception was fortunate; for on learning
that John had been visited and exhorted at Boisveyrac by Father Launoy,
Father Joly showed no further concern in his spiritual health. He was
perhaps the oldest parochial priest in New France, and since leaving the
seminary at Quebec had spent almost all his days at Boisveyrac. He
remembered the Seigneur's father (he always called the Commandant
"the Seigneur"). "Such a man, monsieur!
He stood six feet four inches in his stockings, and could lift and cast
a grown bullock with his own hands."

John pointed out that the present Seigneur--in his working blouse
especially--made a fine figure of a man; but this the old priest could
hardly be brought to allow. "A heart of gold, I grant you; but to have
seen his father striding among his _censitaires_ on St. Martin's Feast!
It may be that, having watched the son from childhood, I still think
of him as a boy. . . ."
Of Fort Amitie itself Father Joly had much to tell. It dated from the
early days of the great Frontenac, who had planted a settlement
here--a collection of wooden huts within a stockade--to be an _entrepot_
of commerce with the Indians of the Upper Lakes. Later it became a
favourite haunt of deserters from the army and _coureurs de bois_
outlawed by royal edict; and, strangely enough, these had been the
days of its prosperity.

Its real decline began when the Governor, toward the end of his rule,
replaced the wooden huts with a fortress of stone. The traders, trappers,
ne'er-do-wells and Indians deserted the lake-head, which had been a true
camp of amity, and moved their rendezvous farther west, leaving
the fortress to its Commandant and a sleepy garrison.

From that time until the war the garrison had been composed of
regulars, who lived on the easiest terms with their Commandant and his
officers, and retired at the age of forty or fifty, when King Louis
presented them with a farm and farm stock and provisions for two
or three years, and often completed the outfit with a wife.

"A veritable Age of Gold, monsieur! But war has put an end to it all--war,
and the greed of these English, whom God will confound!
The regulars went their ways, leaving only Sergeant Bedard; who had
retired upon a farm, but was persuaded by the Seigneur to come back
and drill the recruits of the militia."
--"Who take very kindly to garrison life, so far as I can see."
"Fort Amitie has its amenities, monsieur," said Father Joly, catching
John's glance rather than hearing the words.

"There are the allotments, to begin with--the fences between them, you
may not have observed, are made of stakes from the original palisade;
the mould is excellent. The Seigneur, too, offers prizes for
vegetable-growing and poultry-raising; he is an unerring judge of
poultry, as one has need to be at Boisveyrac, where the rents are
mostly paid in fowls. Indeed, yes, the young recruits are well enough
content.

The Seigneur feeds them well, and they can usually have a holiday for the
asking and go a-hunting in the woods or a-fishing in the river.
But, for my part, I regret Boisveyrac. A man of my years does not readily
bear transplanting. And here is a curious thing, monsieur; deaf though
I am, I miss the sound of the rapids. I cannot tell you how; nevertheless
it seems to me that something has gone out of my daily life, and the
landscape here is still and empty."
"And how," John managed to make him hear, "did the Seigneur come to command
Fort Amitie?"
Father Joly glanced nervously down the slope and lowered his voice.

"That was M. Armand's doing, monsieur." Then, seeing that John did
not understand, "M. Armand--mademoiselle's brother and the Seigneur's
only son. He went to Quebec, when the Governor had given him a post
in his household; a small post, but with good prospects for a young
man of his birth and address. He had wits, monsieur, and good looks;
everything in short but money; and there is no better blood in the
province than that of the des Noel-Tilly.

They have held Boisveyrac now for five generations, and were Seigneurs
of Deuxmanoirs and Preaux-Sources even before that. Well, as I say, the
lad started with good prospects; but by and by he began to desert the
Chateau Saint-Louis for the Intendant's Palace.

Monsieur has heard of the Intendant Bigot--is perhaps acquainted with
him? No?

Then I may say without hurting any one's feelings what I would say
to the Intendant himself were he here--that he is a corrupter of
youth, and a corrupter of the innocence of women, and a corrupter
of honest government.

If New France lie under the scourge to-day, it is for the sins of such
men as he." The old man's voice shook with sudden anger, but he calmed
himself. "In brief, there was a gambling debt-- a huge sum owing; and
the Seigneur was forced to travel to Quebec and fetch the lad home.
How he paid the amount I cannot tell you; belike he raised the
money on Boisveyrac; but pay he did.

Dominique Guyon went with him to Quebec, having just succeeded his
father, old Bonhomme Guyon, as Boisveyrac's man of business; and
doubtless Dominique made some arrangements with the merchants there.

He has a head on his shoulders, that lad. M. de Vaudreuil, too, taking
pity on a distressed gentleman of New France, gave the Seigneur the
command of this fort, to grow fat on it, and hither we have all migrated.
But our good Seigneur will never grow fat, monsieur; he is of the poor
to whom shall belong the Kingdom of God."
John did not clearly understand this, being unacquainted with the official
system of peculation by false vouchers--a system under which the
command of a backwoods fort was reckoned to be worth a small fortune. His
mind recurred to Dominique and to the Commandant's uneasiness at
Dominique's mention of business.

"A queer fellow, that Dominique!" he muttered, half to himself; "and a
queer fate that made him the brother of Bateese."
The priest heard, as deaf men sometimes will hear a word or two
spoken below ordinary pitch.

"Ah!" said he, shaking his head. "You have heard of Bateese?
A sad case--a very sad case!"
"There was an accident, I have heard."
Father Joly glanced at John's face and, reading the question, bent his
own dim eyes on the river. John divined at once that the old man
knew more than he felt inclined to tell.

"It was at Bord-a-Loup, a little above Boisveyrac, four years ago last
St. Peter's tide. The two brothers were driving some timber which the
Seigneur had cleared there; the logs had jammed around a rock not
far from shore and almost at the foot of the fall.
The two had managed to get across and were working the mass loose
with handspikes when, just as it began to break up, Bateese slipped
and fell between two logs."
"Through some careless push of Dominique's, was it not?"
But Father Joly did not hear, or did not seem to.
"He was hideously broken, poor Bateese. For weeks it did not seem
possible that he could live. The _habitants_ find Dominique a queer
fellow, even as you do; and I have observed that even Mademoiselle
Diane treats him somewhat impatiently. But in truth he is a lad
grown old before his time. It is terrible when such a blow falls
upon the young. He and Bateese adored one another."
And this was all John learned at the time. But three days later he
heard more of the story, and from Mademoiselle Diane.
She was seated in an embrasure of the terrace--the same, in fact,
in which she had taken measurements for John's new tunic. She was
embroidering it now with the Bearnais badge, and had spread Barboux's
tunic on the gun-breach to give her the pattern. John, passing along
the terrace in a brown study, while his eyes followed the evolutions
of Sergeant Bedard's men at morning parade in the square below, did
not catch sight of her until she called to him to come and admire
her handiwork.
"Monsieur is _distrait_, it appears," she said, mischievously.
"It must be weary work for him, whiling away the hours in this
contemptible fortress?"
"I do not find Fort Amitie contemptible, mademoiselle."
She shook her head and laughed. "If you wish to please me, monsieur,
you must find some warmer praise for it. For in some sort it is my
ancestral home, and I love every stone of it."
"Mademoiselle speaks in riddles. I had thought that every one of
the Commandant's household--except the Commandant himself, perhaps--was
pining to get back to Boisveyrac."
She let her needlework lie for a moment, and sat with her eyes
resting on the facade of the Commandant's quarters across the
square.
"It is foolish in me," she said musingly; "for in the days of which
I am thinking not one of these stones was laid. You must know,
monsieur, that in those days many and many a young man of family
took to the woods; no laws, no edicts would restrain them; the life
of the forest seemed to pass into their blood and they could not
help themselves . . . ah, I myself understand that, sometimes!" she
added, after a pause.
"Well, monsieur," she went on, "there came to Fort Amitie a certain
young Raoul de Tilly, who suffered from this wandering fever.
The Government outlawed him in the end; but as yet his family had
hopes to reclaim him, and, being powerful in New France, they managed
to get his sentence delayed. He came here, and here he fell in love
with an Indian girl, and married her--putting, they say, a pistol
at the priest's head. The girl was a Wyandot from Lake Huron, and
had been baptised but a week before.It gave him honest pleasure to
think that at last he had stolen a march on his friend. He should at
least have his sleep in peace before the inevitable end.

He looked at his watch; it was almost half-past eleven.

"Haystoun said they'd be here at midnight," he whispered to his
companion. "We haven't long. When do you suppose Andover will come?"

"Not for an hour and a half at the earliest. Afraid this is going to be
our own private show. Where's Haystoun?"

George nodded back to the fire in the hollow, and the tent beside it.
"There, I expect, sleeping. He's dog-tired, and he always was a very
cool hand in a row. He'll be wakened soon enough, poor chap."

"You're sure he can't tell us anything?"

"Nothing. He told me all. Better let him be." Mitchinson came up with
the rearguard. Living all but alone in the wilds had made him a silent
man compared to whom the taciturn St. John was garrulous. He nodded to
George and sat down.

"How many are we?" George asked.

"Forty-three, counting the three of us. Not enough for a good stand.
Wonder how it'll turn out. Never had to do such a thing before."

St. John, whose soul longed for Maxims, posted his men as best he
could. There was no time to throw up earthworks, but a rough cairn of
stone which stood in the middle of the hollow gave at least a central
rallying-ground. Then they waited, watching the fleecy night vapours
blow across the peaks and straining their ears for the first sound of
men.

George grew impatient. "It can't be more than five miles to the pass.
Shouldn't some of us try to get there? It would make all the
difference."

St. John declined sharply. "We've taken our place and we must stick to
it. We can't afford to straggle. Hullo! it's just on twelve. Thwaite
has had three hours to prepare, and he's bound to have wakened the
south. I fancy the business won't quite come off this time."

Suddenly in the chilly silence there rose something like the faint and
distant sound of rifles. It was no more than the sound of stone
dropping on a rock ledge, for, still and clear and cold though the night
was, the narrowness of the valley and the height of the cliffs dulled
all distant sounds. But each man had the ear of the old hunter, and
waited with head bent forward.

Again the drip-drip; then a scattering noise as when one lets peas fall
on the floor.

"God! That's carbines. Who the devil are they fighting with?"
Mitchinson's eye had lost its lethargy. His scraggy neck was craned
forward, and his grim mouth had relaxed into a grimmer smile.

"It's them, sure enough," said St. John, and spoke something to his
servant.

"I'm going forward," said George. "It may be somebody else making a
stand, and we're bound to help."

"You're bound not to be an ass," said St. John. "Who in the Lord's
name could it be? It may be the Badas polishing off some hereditary
foes, and it may be Marker getting rid of some wandering hillmen. Man,
we're miles beyond the pale. Who's to make a stand but ourselves?"

Again came the patter of little sounds, and then a long calm.

"They're through now," said St. John. "The next thing to listen for is
the sound of their feet. When that comes I pass the word along. We're
all safe for heaven, so keep your minds easy."

But the sound of feet was long in coming. Only the soft night airs, and
at rare intervals an eagle's cry, or the bleat of a doe from the valley
bottom. The first half-hour of waiting was a cruel strain. In such
moments a man's sins rise up large before him. When his future life is
narrowed down to an hour's compass, he sees with cruel distinctness the
follies of his past. A thousand things he had done or left undone
loomed on George's mental horizon. His slackness, his self-indulgence,
his unkindness--he went over the whole innocent tale of his sins. To
the happy man who lives in the open and meets the world with a square
front this forced final hour of introspection has peculiar terrors.
Meantime Lewis was sleeping peacefully in the tent by the still cheerful
fire. Thank God, he was spared this hideous waiting!

About two Andover turned up with fifteen men, hot and desperate. He
listened to St. John's story in silence.

"Thank God, I'm in time. Who found out this? Haystoun? Good man,
Lewis! I wonder who has been firing out there. They can't have been
stopped? It's getting devilish late for them anyhow, and I believe
there's a little hope. It would be too risky to leave this pass, but I
vote we send a scout."

A man was chosen and dispatched. Two hours later he returned to the
mystified watchers at Nazri. He had been on the hill-shoulder and
looked into the cleft. There was no sign of men there, but he had heard
the sound of men, though where he could not tell. Far down the cleft
there was a gleam of fire, but no man near it.

"That's a Bada dodge," said Andover promptly. "Now I wonder if Marker
trusted too much to these gentry, and they have done us the excellent
service of misleading him. They hate us like hell, and they'd sell
their souls any day for a dozen cartridges; so it can't have been done
on purpose. Seems to me there has been a slip in his plans somewhere."

But the sound of voices! The man was questioned closely, and he was
strong on its truth. He was a hillman from the west of the Khyber, and
he swore that he knew the sound of human speech in the hills many miles
off, though he could not distinguish the words.

"In thirty minutes it will be morning," said George. "Lord, such a
night, and Lewis to have missed it all!" His spirits were rising, and he
lit a pipe. The north was safe whatever happened, and, as the inertness
of midnight passed off, he felt satisfaction in any prospect, however
hazardous. He sat down beneath a boulder and smoked, while Andover
talked with the others. They were the frontier soldiers, and this was
their profession; he was the amateur to whom technicalities were
unmeaning.

Suddenly he sprang up and touched St. John on the shoulder. A great
chill seemed to have passed over the world, and on the hill-tops there
was a faint light. Both men looked to the east, and there, beyond the
Forza hills, was the red foreglow spreading over the grey. It was dawn,
and with the dawn came safety. The fires had burned low, and the
vagrant morning winds were beginning to scatter the white ashes. Now
was the hour for bravado, since the time for silence had gone. St.
John gave the word, and it was passed like a roll-call to left and
right, the farthest man shouting it along the ribs of mountain to the
next watch-fire. The air had grown clear and thin, and far off the dim
repetition was heard, which told of sentries at their place, and the
line of posts which rimmed the frontier.

Mitchinson moistened his dry lips and filled his lungs with the cold,
fresh air. "That," he said slowly, "is the morning report of the last
outpost of the Empire, and by the grace of God it's 'All's well.'"


CHAPTER XXXII

THE BLESSING OF GAD

"Gad--a troop shall overcome him, but he shall overcome at the last."

Lewis peered into the gorge and saw only a thin darkness. The high
walls made pits of shade at the foot, but above there was a misty column
of light which showed the spectres of rock and bush in the nullah
beyond. It was all but dark, and the stars were coming out like the
lights on a sea-wall, hard and cold and gleaming. Just in the throat of
the pass a huge boulder had fallen and left a passage not two yards
wide. Beyond there was a sharp descent of a dozen feet to the gravelled
bottom which fell away in easier stages to the other watershed. Here
was a place made by nature for his plans. With immense pains he rolled
the biggest stones he could move to the passage, so that they were
poised above the slope. He tried the great boulder, too, with his
shoulders, and it seemed to quiver. In the last resort this mass of
rock might be sent crashing down the incline, and by the blessing of God
it should account for its man.

He brought his rifles forward to the stones, loaded them and felt the
cartridges easy in his pocket. They were for the thirty-yards range;
his pistol would be kept for closer quarters. He tried one after the
other, cuddling the stocks to his cheek. They were all dear-loved
weapons, used in deer-stalking at home and on many a wilder beat. He
knew the tricks of each, and he had little pet devices laughed at by his
friends. This one had clattered down fifty feet of rock in Ross-shire
as the scars on the stock bore witness, and another had his initials
burned in the wood, the relic of a winter's night in a Finnish camp. A
thousand old pleasant memories came back to him, the sights and scents
and sounds of forgotten places, the zest of toil and escapade, the joy
of food and warmth and rest. Well! he had lived, had tasted to the
full the joys of the old earth, the kindly mother of her children. He
had faced death thoughtlessly many times, and now the Ancient Enemy was
on his heels and he was waiting to give him greeting. A phrase ran in
his head, some trophy from his aimless wanderings among books, which
spoke of death coming easily to one "who has walked steadfastly in the
direction of his dreams." It was a comforting thought to a creature of
moods and fancies. He had failed, doubtless, but he had ever kept some
select fanciful aim unforgotten. In all his weakness he had never
betrayed this ultimate Desire of the Heart.

Some few feet up the cliff was a little thicket of withered thorns. The
air was chilly and the cleft was growing very black. Why should not he
make a fire behind the great boulder? He gathered some armfuls and
heaped them in a space of dry sand. They were a little wet, so they
burned slowly with a great smoke, which the rising night wind blew
behind him. He was still hungry, so he ate the food he had brought in
his pockets; and then he lit his pipe. How oddly the tobacco tasted in
this moment of high excitement! It was as if the essence of all the
pipes he had ever smoked was concentrated into this last one. The smoke
blew back, and as he sniffed its old homely fragrance he seemed to feel
the smell of peat and heather, of drenched homespun in the snowy bogs,
and the glory of a bright wood fire and the moorland cottage. In a
second his thoughts were many thousand miles away. The night wind
cooled his brow, and he looked into the dark gap and saw his own past.

The first picture was a cold place on a low western island. Snow was
drifting sparsely, and a dull grey Atlantic swell was grumbling on the
reefs. He was crouching among the withered rushes, where seaweed and
shells had been blown, and snow lay in dirty patches. He felt the thick
collar of his shooting-coat tight about his neck, while the December
evening grew darker and colder. A gillie, who had no English, was lying
at his right hand, and far out at sea a string of squattering geese were
slowly drifting shorewards with the wind. He saw the scene clear in
every line, and he remembered the moment as if it had been yesterday, It
had been one of his periods of great exultation. He had just left
Oxford, and had fled northward after some weeks in Paris to wash out the
taste of civilization from his mouth among the island north-westers. He
had had a great day among the woodcock, and now was finishing with a
stalk after wild geese. He was furiously hungry, chilled and soaked to
the bone, but riotously happy. His future seemed to stretch before him,
a brighter continuation of a bright past, a time for high achievement,
bold work, and yet no surcease of pleasure. He had been master of
himself in that hour, his body firm and strong, his soul clear, his mind
a tempered weapon awaiting his hands.

And then the scene changed to a June evening in his own countryside. He
was deep in the very heart of the hills beside a little loch, whose
clear waves lapped on beaches of milky sand, it was just on twilight,
and an infinite sighing of soft winds was around him, a far-away
ineffable brightness of sunset, and the good scents of dusk among thyme
and heather. He had fished all the afternoon, and his catch lay on the
bent beside him. He was to sleep the night in his plaid, and already a
fire of heather-roots behind him was prepared for supper. He had been
for a swim, and his hair was still wet on his forehead. Just across a
conical hill rose into the golden air, the highest hill in all the
countryside, but here but a little thing, for the loch was as high as
many a hill-top. Just on its face was a scaur, and there a raven--a
speck--was wheeling slowly. Among the little islands broods of mallard
were swimming, and trout in a bay were splashing with wide circles. The
whole place had seemed caught up into an ecstasy, a riot of gold and
crimson and far-off haunting shades and scents and voices. And yet it
was no wild spectacle; it was the delicate comfort of it all which had
charmed him. Life seemed one glorious holiday, the world a garden of
the gods. There was his home across the hills, with its cool chambers,
its books and pictures, its gardens and memories. There were his
friends up and down the earth. There was the earth itself waiting for
his conquest. And, meantime, there was this airy land around him, his
own by the earliest form of occupation.

The fire died down to embers and a sudden scattering of ashes woke him
out of his dreaming. The old Scots land was many thousand miles away.
His past was wiped out behind him. He was alone in a very strange
place, cut off by a great gulf from youth and home and pleasure. For an
instant the extreme loneliness of an exile's death smote him, but the
next second he comforted himself. The heritage of his land and his
people was his in this ultimate moment a hundredfold more than ever.
The sounding tale of his people's wars--one against a host, a foray in
the mist, a last stand among the mountain snows--sang in his heart like
a tune. The fierce, northern exultation, which glories in hardships and
the forlorn, came upon him with such keenness and delight that, as he
looked into the night and the black unknown, he felt the joy of a
greater kinship. He was kin to men lordlier than himself, the
true-hearted who had ridden the King's path and trampled a little world
under foot. To the old fighters in the Border wars, the religionists of
the South, the Highland gentlemen of the Cause, he cried greeting over
the abyss of time. He had lost no inch of his inheritance. Where,
indeed, was the true Scotland? Not in the little barren acres he had
left, the few thousands of city-folk, or the contentions of unlovely
creeds and vain philosophies. The elect of his race had ever been the
wanderers. No more than Hellas had his land a paltry local unity.
Wherever the English flag was planted anew, wherever men did their duty
faithfully and without hope of little reward--there was the fatherland
of the true patriot.

The time was passing, and still the world was quiet. The hour must be
close on midnight, and still there was no sign of men. For the first
time he dared to hope for success. Before, an hour's delay was all that
he had sought. To give the north time for a little preparation, to make
defence possible, had been his aim; now with the delay he seemed to see
a chance for victory. Bardur would be alarmed hours ago; men would be
on the watch all over Kashmir and the Punjab; the railways would be
guarded. The invader would find at the least no easy conquest. When
they had trodden his life out in the defile they would find stronger men
to bar their path, and he would not have died in vain. It was a slender
satisfaction for vanity, for what share would he have in the defence?
Unknown, unwept, he would perish utterly, and to others would be the
glory. He did not care, nay, he rejoiced in the brave obscurity. He
had never sought so vulgar a thing as fame. He was going out of life
like a snuffed candle. George, if George survived, would know nothing
of his death. He was miles beyond the frontier, and if George, after
months of war, should make his way to this fatal cleft, what trace would
he find of him? And all his friends, Wratislaw, Arthur Mordaunt, the
folk of Glenavelin--no word would ever come to them to tell them of his
end.

But Alice--and in one wave there returned to him the story which he had
striven to put out of his heart. She had known him in his weakness, but
she would never think of him in his strength. The whimsical fate
pleased him. The last meeting on that grey autumn afternoon at the
Broken Bridge had heartened him for his travellings. It had been a
compact between them; and now he was redeeming the promise of the tryst.
And she would never know it, would only know that somewhere and somehow
he had ceased to struggle with an inborn weakness. Well-a-day! It was
no world of rounded corners and complete achievements. It was enough if
a hint, a striving, a beginning were found in the scheme of man's
frailty. He had no clear-cut conception of a future-that was the happy
lot of the strong-hearted--but he had a generous intolerance of little
success. He did not ask rewards, but he prayed for the hope of a good
beginning or a gallant failure. The odd romance which lies in the
wanderer's brain welcomed the paradox. Alice and her bright hair
floated dim on the horizon of his vision, something exquisite and dear,
a memory, a voice, a note of tenderness in this last exhilaration. A
sentimental passion was beyond him; he was too critical of folly to
worship any lost lady; and he had no love for vain reminiscences. But
the girl had become the embodied type of the past. A year ago he had
not seen her, now she was home and childhood and friends to him. For a
moment there was the old heart-hunger, but the pain had gone. The
ineffectual longing which had galled him had perished at the advent of
his new strength.

For in this ultimate moment he at last seemed to have come to his own.
The vulgar little fears, which, like foxes, gnaw at the roots of the
heart, had gone, even the greater perils of faint hope and a halting
energy. The half-hearted had become the stout-hearted. The resistless
vigour of the strong and the simple was his. He stood in the dark gully
peering into the night, his muscles stiff from heel to neck. The
weariness of the day had gone: only the wound in his ear, got the day
before, had begun to bleed afresh. He wiped the blood away with his
handkerchief, and laughed at the thought of this little care. In a few
minutes he would be facing death, and now he was staunching a pin-prick.

He wondered idly how soon death would come. It would be speedy, at
least, and final. And then the glory of the utter loss. His bones
whitening among the stones, the suns of summer beating on them and the
winter snowdrifts decently covering them with a white sepulchre. No man
could seek a lordlier burial. It was the death he had always craved.
From murder, fire, and sudden death, why should we call on the Lord to
deliver us? A broken neck in a hunting-field, a slip on rocky
mountains, a wounded animal at bay--such was the environment of death
for which he had ever prayed. But this--this was beyond his dreams.

And with it all a great humility fell upon him. His battles were all
unfought. His life had been careless and gay; and the noble
commonplaces of faith and duty had been things of small meaning. He had
lived within the confines of a little aristocracy of birth and wealth
and talent, and the great melancholy world scourged by the winds of God
had seemed to him but a phrase of rhetoric. His creeds and his
arguments seemed meaningless now in this solemn hour; the truth had been
his no more than his crude opponent's! Had he his days to live over
again he would look on the world with different eyes. No man any more
should call him a dreamer. It pleased him to think that, half-hearted
and sceptical as he had been, a humorist, a laughing philosopher, he was
now dying for one of the catchwords of the crowd. He had returned to
the homely paths of the commonplace, and young, unformed, untried, he
was caught up by kind fate to the place of the wise and the heroic.


Suddenly on his thoughts there broke in a dull tread of men, a sound of
slipping stones and feet upon dry gravel. He broke into the cold sweat
of tense nerves, and waited, half hidden, with his rifle ready. Then
came the light of dull lanterns which showed a thin, endless column
beneath the rock walls. They advanced with wonderful quietness, the
sound of feet broken only by a soft word of command. He calculated the
distance--now it was three hundred yards, now two, now a bare eighty.
At fifty his rifle flew to his shoulder and he fired. His nerves were
bad, for one bullet clicked on the rock, while the second took the dust
a yard before the enemy's feet. Instantly there was a halt and the
sound of speech.

The failure had steadied him. The second pair of shots killed their
men. He heard the quick cry of pain and shivered. He was new to this
work and the cry hurt him. But he picked up his express and fired
again, and again there was a cry and a fall. Then he heard a word of
command and the sound of men creeping in the side of the nullah. Eye
and ear were marvelously acute at the moment, for he picked out the
scouts and killed them. Then he loaded his rifles and waited.

He saw a man in the half-light not five yards below him. He fired and
the man dropped, but he had used his rifle and the great spattering of
earth showed his whereabouts. Now was the time for keen eye and steady
arm. The enemy had halted thirty yards off and beneath the slope there
was a patch of darkness. He kept one eye on this, for it might contain
a man. He fixed his attention on a ray of moonlight which fell across
the floor of the gully. When a man crept past this he shot, and he
rarely failed.

Then a command was given and the column came forward at the double. He
fired two shots, but the advance continued. They passed the ray of
light and he saw the whites of their eyes and the gleam of teeth and
steel. They paused a second to fire a volley, and a storm of shot
rattled about him. He had stepped back into his shelter, and was
unscathed, but when he looked out he saw the enemy at the foot of the
slope. His weapons were all loaded except the express, and in mad haste
he sent shot after shot into the ranks. The fire halted them, and for a
second they were on the edge of a panic. This unknown destruction
coming out of the darkness was terrifying to the stoutest hearts. All
the while there was wrath behind them. This stopping of the advance
column was throwing the whole force into confusion. Angry messages came
up from the centre, and distracted officers cursed their native guides.

Meanwhile Lewis was something wholly unlike himself, a maddened creature
with every sense on the alert, drinking in the glory of the fight. He
husbanded the chances of his life with generous parsimony. Every chance
meant some minutes' delay and every delay a new link of safety for the
north. His cartridges were getting near an end, but there still
remained the stones and his pistol and the power of his arm hand to
hand.

Suddenly came a second volley which all but killed him, bullets glancing
on all sides of him and scraping the rocks with a horrid message of
death. Then on the heels of it came a charge up the slope. The turn
had come for the last expedient. He rushed to the stone and with the
strength of madness rooted it from its foundations. It wavered for a
second, and then with a cloud of earth and gravel it plunged downwards.
A second and it had ploughed its way with a sickening grinding sound
into the ranks of the men below. There was one wild scream of terror,
and then a retreat, a flight, almost a panic.

Down in the hollow was a babel of sound, men yelping with fright,
officers calming and cursing them, and the shouting of the forces
behind. For Lewis the last moment was approaching. The neck of the
pass was now bare and wide and half of the slope was gone. He had lost
his weapons in the fall, all but his express, and the loosening of the
stone had crushed his foot so that he could scarcely stand. Then order
seemed, to be restored, for another volley rang out, which passed over
his head as he crouched on the ground. The enemy were advancing slowly,
resolutely. He knew that now there was something different in their
tread.

He was calm and quiet. The mad exhilaration was ebbing and he was
calculating chances as dispassionately as a scientist in his study. Two
shots, the six chambers of his pistol, and then he would be ground to
powder. The moon rode over the top of the cleft and a sudden wave of
light fell on the slope, the writhing dead, and below, the advancing
column. It gave him a chance for fair shooting, and he did not miss.
But the men were maddened with anger and taunts, and they would have
charged a battery. They came up on the slope with a fierce rush,
cursing in gutturals. He slipped behind the old friendly jag of rock
and waited till they were abreast. Then began a strange pistol
practice. Crouching in the darkness he selected his men and shot them,
making no mistake. The front ranks of the column turned to the right
and lunged with their bayonets into the gloom. But the man knew his
purpose. He climbed farther back till he was above their heads, looking
down on ranks of white inhuman faces mad with slaughter and the courage
which is next door to fear. They were still advancing, but with an
uncertain air. He saw his chance and took it. Crying out he knew not
what, he leapt among them with clutched rifle, striking madly to right
and left. There was a roar of fright, and for a moment a space was
cleared around him. He fought like a maniac, stumbling with his crushed
foot and leaving two men stunned at his feet. But it was only for a
moment. A bayonet entered his side and his rifle snapped at the stock.
He grappled with the nearest man and pulled him to the ground, for he
could stand no longer. Then there came a wild surge around, a dozen
bayonets pierced him, and in the article of death he was conscious of a
great press which ground him into the earth. The next moment the column
was marching over his body.


Dawn came with light and sweet airs to the dark cleft in the hills.
Just at that moment, when the red east was breaking into spires and
clouds of colour, and the little morning winds were beginning to flutter
among the crags, two men were standing in the throat of the pass. The
ground about them was ploughed up as if by a battery, the rock seamed
and broken, and red stains of blood were on the dry gravel. From the
north, in the direction of the plain, came the confused sound of an army
in camp. But to the south there was a glimpse through an aperture of
hill of a far side of mountain, and on it a gleam as of fire.

Marka, clad in the uniform of a captain of Cossacks, looked fiercely at
his companion and then at the beacon.

"Look," he said, "look and listen!" And sure enough in the morning
stillness came the sound as of a watchword cried from post to post.

"That," said he, "is the morning signal of an awakened empire and the
final proof of our failure."

"It was no fault of mine," said Fazir Khan sourly. "I did as I was
commanded, and lo! when I come I find an army in confusion and the
frontier guarded." The chief spoke with composure, but he had in his
heart an uneasy consciousness that he had had some share in this
undoing.

Marka looked down at a body which lay wrinkled across the path. It was
trodden all but shapeless, the poor face was unrecognizable, the legs
were scrawled like a child's letters. Only one hand with a broken gold
signet-ring remained to tell of the poor inmate of the clay.

The Cossack looked down on the dead with a scowling face. "Curse
him--curse him eternally. Who would have guessed that this fool, this
phrasing fool, would have spoiled our plans? Curse his conscience and
his honour, and God pity him for a fool! I must return to my troops,
for this is no place to linger in." The man saw his work of years
spoiled in a night, and all by the agency of a single adventurer. He
saw his career blighted, his reputation gone. It is not to be wondered
at if he was bitter.

He turned to go, and in leaving pushed the dead man over with his foot.
He saw the hand and the broken ring.

As the only alternative, he spurred his horse and rode ahead of his
old domestic; but the latter had not yet had his say, and instead
of keeping behind his master, he rode up to his left and continued
the conversation.

"Do you suppose, Monsieur, that I should allow you to go where you
please? No, Monsieur, I am too deeply impressed with the respect
I owe to Madame la Marquise, to give her an opportunity of saying
to me:
'Grandchamp, my son has been killed with a shot or with a sword; why were
you not before him?'For a
moment the barbarian came out, and in a sudden ferocity he kicked the
dead.

But as he looked again he was moved to a juster appreciation.

"This thing was a man," he said.

Then stooping he dipped his finger in blood and touched his forehead.
"This man," he said, "was of the race of kings."