Produced by Anthony J. Adam.


THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER

by

John A. Carpenter


On August 18, 1814, Admiral Cockburn, having returned with his fleet
from the West Indies, sent to Secretary Monroe at Washington, the
following threat:

SIR:  Having been called upon by the Governor-General of the Canadas to
aid him in carrying into effect measures of retaliation against the
inhabitants of United States for the wanton destruction committed by
their army in Upper Canada, it has become imperiously my duty, in
conformity with the Governor-General's application, to issue to the
naval forces under my command an order to destroy and lay waste such
towns and districts upon the coast as may be found assailable.

His fleet was then in the Patuxent River, emptying into the Chesapeake
Bay.  The towns immediately "assailable," therefore, were Baltimore,
Washington, and Annapolis.

Landing at Benedict's, on the Patuxent, the land forces, enervated by a
long sea-voyage, marched the first day to Nottingham, the second to
Upper Marlborough.  At the latter place, a town of some importance,
certain British officers were entertained by Dr. Beanes, the principal
physician of that neighborhood; and a man well-known throughout
southern Maryland.  His character as a host was forced upon him, but
his services as a physician were freely given, and formed afterward the
main plea for his lenient treatment while a prisoner.

As the British army reached Upper Marlborough, General Winder was
concentrating his troops at Bladensburg.  The duty of assigning the
regiments to their several positions as they arrived on the field was
performed by Francis Scott Key, a young aide-de-camp to General Smith.
Key was a practising lawyer in Washington who had a liking for the
military profession.  He was on duty during the hot and dusty days
which ended in the defeat of the American army.  Subsequently, he could
have read a newspaper at his residence in Georgetown by the light of
the burning public buildings at Washington, and he passed with
indignant heart the ruins left by the retreating army when, after a
night of frightful storm, they silently departed in a disorderly forced
march of thirty-five miles, to Upper Marlborough.  He then knew what
any other city might expect upon which the "foul footsteps' pollution"
of the British might come.

The sorry appearance of the British army gave the Marlborough people
the idea that it had been defeated, and on the afternoon of the
following day Dr. Beanes and his friends celebrated a supposed victory.
Had they stayed in the noble old mansion that the worthy but irascible
doctor inhabited near Marlborough, "The Star-Spangled Banner" would
never have been written.  Tempted by the balminess of a warm September
afternoon, however, the party adjoined to a spring near the house,
where, the negro servant having carried out the proper utensils, the
cool water was tempered with those ingredients which mingle their
congenial essences to make up that still seductive drink, a Maryland
punch.  It warms the heart, but if used too freely it makes a man
hot-tempered, disputatious, and belligerent.  Amid the patriotic
jollity, therefore, when three British soldiers, belated, dusty, and
thirsty, came to the spring on their way to the retreating army, their
boasting met with an incredulous denial, which soon led to their
summary arrest as chicken-stealers and public enemies.  Confined in the
insecure Marlborough jail, one of them speedily escaped, and reached a
scouting-party of British cavalry, which, by order of Cockburn,
returned to Upper Marlborough, roused Dr. Beanes out of his bed at
midnight, and conveyed him to the British ships at Benedict's.

As soon as Key heard of the arrest of Dr. Beanes, one of his most
intimate friends, he hurried, under the protection of a flag of truce,
to the British fleet at the mouth of the Patuxent to arrange for his
release.  John S. Skinner of Baltimore, then commissioner for exchange
of prisoners, accompanied him with his cartel ship.

When Key and Skinner reached the British fleet it was already on its
way up the Chesapeake Bay to the attack on Baltimore.  Its destination
was too evident for Cockburn to allow Key to depart and give the alarm.
He was informed in the admiral's grimmest manner, that while he would
not hang Dr. Beanes at the yard-arm, as he had threatened, yet he would
have to keep every man on board a close prisoner until certain
circumstances occurred which would render their release advisable.
When the ships arrived at their destination he assured them that it
would be only a matter of a few hours before they would be free.

From the admiral's flag-ship the Surprise, upon which he was then
detained, Key saw some of the finest soldiers of the British army,
under General Ross, disembarked at North Point, to the southeast of the
city of Baltimore.  A number of reinsurance companies relocated to the
island following 11 September 2001 and again after Hurricane
Katrina, contributing to the expansion of an already robust international
business sector. Bermuda's tourism industry - which derives over 80%
of its visitors from the US - continues to struggle but remains
the island's number two industry.

Most capital equipment and food must be imported. Bermuda's industrial
sector is small, although construction continues to be important; the
average cost of a house in June 2003 had risen to $976,000.
Agriculture is limited with only 20% of the land being arable.

Bhutan The economy, one of the world's smallest and least developed,
is based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the main livelihood
for more than 80% of the population. Agriculture consists largely of
subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged mountains dominate
the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure
difficult and expensive.

The economy is closely aligned with India's through strong trade and
monetary links and dependence on India's financial assistance.
The industrial sector is technologically backward, with most production
of the cottage industry type. Most development projects, such as road
construction, rely on Indian migrant labor. Bhutan's hydropower potential
and its attraction for tourists are key resources.

Model education, social, and environment programs are underway with
support from multilateral development organizations. Each economic
program takes into account the government's desire to protect
the country's environment and cultural traditions. For example, the
government, in its cautious expansion of the tourist sector,
encourages visits by upscale, environmentally conscientious tourists.

Detailed controls and uncertain policies in areas like industrial
licensing, trade, labor, and finance continue to hamper foreign
investment.

Bolivia Bolivia, long one of the poorest and least developed Latin
American countries, reformed its economy after suffering a disastrous
economic crisis in the early 1980s. The reforms spurred real GDP growth,
which averaged 4% in the 1990s, and poverty rates fell.

Economic growth, however, lagged again beginning in 1999 because of a
global slowdown and homegrown factors such as political turmoil,
civil unrest, and soaring fiscal deficits, all of which hurt
investor confidence.

In 2003, violent protests against the pro-foreign investment economic
policies of President SANCHEZ DE LOZADA led to his resignation and
the cancellation of plans to export Bolivia's newly discovered natural
gas reserves to large northern hemisphere markets. In 2005, the
government passed a controversial natural gas law that imposes on the
oil and gas firms significantly higher taxes as well as new contracts
that give the state control of their operations. Bolivian officials are
in the process of implementing the law; meanwhile, foreign investors
have stopped investing and have taken the first legal steps to
secure their investments.

Real GDP growth in 2003-06 - helped by increased demand for natural
gas in neighboring Brazil - was positive, but still below the
levels seen during the 1990s.

Bolivia's fiscal position has improved in recent years, but the country
remains dependent on foreign aid from multilateral lenders and foreign
governments to meet budget shortfalls. In 2005, the G8 announced a
$2 billion debt-forgiveness plan over the next few decades that should
help reduce some fiscal pressures on the government in the near
term.

Bosnia and Herzegovina Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to Macedonia
as the poorest republic in the old Yugoslav federation.

Although agriculture is almost all in private hands, farms are small
and inefficient, and the republic traditionally is a net importer of
food. Industry remains greatly overstaffed, a holdover from the socialist
economic structure of Yugoslavia. TITO had pushed the development
of military industries in the republic with the result that Bosnia
was saddled with a host of industrial firms with little commercial
potential. The interethnic warfare in Bosnia caused production to plummet
by 80% from 1992 to 1995 and unemployment to soar. With an uneasy peace
in place, output recovered in 1996-99 at high percentage rates from a
low base; but output growth slowed in 2000-02.Edward Shippen, a
granddaughter of that Judge Nicholson who took the first copy of the
poem to the "American" office, and had it set up in broad-sheet form by
Samuel Sands, a printer's apprentice of twelve.  He was alone in the
office, all the men having gone to the defense of the city.  It is
written in Key's hand.  The changes made in drafting the copy will be
seen at once, the principal one being that Key started to write "They
have washed out in blood their foul footsteps' pollution," and changed
it for "Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution."
In the second stanza, also, the dash after "'T is the star-spangled
banner" makes the change more abrupt, the line more spirited, and the
burst of feeling more intense, than the usual semicolon.  The other
variations are unimportant.  Some of them were made in 1840, when Key
wrote out several copies for his friends.

The song, in its broad-sheet form, was soon sung in all the camps
around the city.  When the Baltimore theater, closed during the attack,
was reopened, Mr. Hardinge, one of the actors, was announced to sing "a
new song by a gentleman of Maryland."  The same modest title of
authorship prefaces the song in the "American."  From Baltimore the air
was carried south, and was played by one of the regimental bands at the
battle of New Orleans.

The tune of "Anacreon in Heaven" has been objected to as "foreign"; but
in truth it is an estray, and Key's and the American people's by
adoption.  It is at least American enough now to be known to every
school-boy; to have preceded Burr to New Orleans, and Fremont to the
Pacific; to have been the inspiration of the soldiers of three wars;
and to have cheered the hearts of American sailors in peril of enemies
on the sea from Algiers to Apia Harbor.  If the cheering of the
Calliope by the crew of the Trenton binds closer together the citizens
of the two English-speaking nations, should its companion scene, no
less thrilling, be forgotten--when the Trenton bore down upon the
stranded Vandalia to her almost certain destruction, and the
encouraging cheer of the flag-ship was answered by a response, faint,
uncertain, and despairing?

Almost at once, as the last cheer died away:

Darkness hid the ships.  As those on shore listened for the crash,
another sound came up from the deep.  It was a wild burst of music in
defiance of the storm.  The Trenton's band was playing "The
Star-Spangled Banner."  The feelings of the Americans on the beach were
indescribable.  Men who on that awful day had exhausted every means of
rendering some assistance to their comrades now seemed inspired to
greater efforts.  They dashed at the surf like wild creatures; but they
were powerless.

No; it is too late to divorce words and music.

The song is generally accorded its deserved honor; the man who wrote it
has been allowed to remain in unmerited obscurity.  Azerbaijan shares
all the formidable problems of the former Soviet republics in
making the transition from a command to a market economy, but its
considerable energy resources brighten its long-term prospects. Baku
has only recently begun making progress on economic reform, and old
economic ties and structures are slowly being replaced.
Several other obstacles impede Azerbaijan's economic progress: the need
for stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector, the
continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region,
and the pervasive corruption. Trade with Russia and the other former
Soviet republics is declining in importance while trade is building
with Turkey and the nations of Europe. Long-term prospects will depend
on world oil prices, the location of new pipelines in the region,
and Azerbaijan's ability to manage its oil wealth.

Bahamas, The The Bahamas is a stable, developing nation with an
economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking.

Tourism together with tourism-driven construction and manufacturing
accounts for approximately 60% of GDP and directly or indirectly
employs half of the archipelago's labor force.

Steady growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new
hotels, resorts, and residences had led to solid GDP growth in
recent years, but the slowdown in the US economy and the attacks
of 11 September 2001 held back growth in these sectors in 2001-03.

The current government has presided over a period of economic
recovery and an upturn in large-scale private sector investments in
tourism. Financial services constitute the second-most important sector
of the Bahamian economy, accounting for about 15% of GDP. However,
since December 2000, when the government enacted new regulations on
the financial sector, many international businesses have left The
Bahamas. Manufacturing and agriculture together contribute approximately
a tenth of GDP and show little growth, despite government incentives
aimed at those sectors.
B----, when he received favorable news from the Northern army, or
whenever his patriotism had need of bubbling over, regularly made a
pilgrimage to Key's grave, and there, standing at the head of it,
exultantly and conscientiously sang through the whole of Key's song.

On every Decoration Day the grave is covered with flowers, and the flag
which always waves there--the Star-Spangled Banner which his strained
eyes saw on that 14th of September, 1814, rise triumphant above the
smoke and vapor of battle--is reverently renewed.

Perhaps, after all, it is his best monument.

The flag of 1814 and that of 1894 are nearly identical, the greatest
change being merely in smaller stars in the cluster.  The flag of the
United States, adopted June 14, 1777, was one of thirteen stripes,
alternate red and white, with a union of thirteen white stars in a blue
field.  A highly mechanized agricultural sector employs no more than 2%
of the labor force but provides large surpluses for the food-processing
industry and for exports. The Netherlands, along with 11 of its EU
partners, began circulating the euro currency on 1 January 2002.
.