"What is the toy for?" Chilcote looked at her from the
mantel-piece, against which he was resting.  He had never defined
the precise attraction that Lillian Astrupp held for him.  Her
shallowness soothed him; her inconsequent egotism helped him
to forget himself.  She never asked him how he was, she never
expected impossibilities.  She let him come and go and act as
he pleased, never demanding reasons.  Like the kitten, she was
charming and graceful and easily amused; it was possible that,
also like the kitten, she could scratch and be spiteful on
occasion, but that did not weigh with him.  He sometimes
expressed a vague envy of the late Lord Astrupp; but, even had
circumstances permitted, it is doubtful whether he would have
chosen to be his successor.  Lillian as a friend was
delightful, but Lillian as a wife would have been a different
consideration.

"What is the toy for?" he asked again.

She looked up slowly.  "How cruel of you, Jack!  It is my very
latest hobby."

It was part of her attraction that she was never without a
craze.  Each new one was as fleeting as the last, but to each
she brought the same delightfully insincere enthusiasm, the
same picturesque devotion.  Each was a pose, but she posed so
sweetly that nobody lost patience.

"You mustn't laugh!" she protested, letting the kitten slip to
the ground.  "I've had lessons at five guineas each from the
most fascinating person--a professional; and I'm becoming
quite an adept.  Of course I haven't been much beyond the
milky appearance yet, but the milky appearance is everything,
you know; the rest will come.  I am trying to persuade Blanche
to let me have a pavilion at her party in March, and gaze for
all you dull political people."  Again she smiled.

Chilcote smiled as well.  "How is it done?" he asked,
momentarily amused.

"Oh, the doing is quite delicious.  You sit at a table with
the ball in front of you; then you take the subject's hands,
spread them out on the table, and stroke them very softly
while you gaze into the crystal; that gets up the sympathy,
you know."  She looked up innocently.  "Shall I show you?"

Chilcote moved a small table nearer to the couch and spread
his hands upon it, palms downward.  "Like this, eh?" he said.
Then a ridiculous nervousness seized him and he moved away.
"Some other day," he said, quickly.  "You can show me some
other day.  I'm not very fit this afternoon."

If Lillian felt any disappointment, she showed none.  "Poor
old thing!" she said, softly.  "Try to sit here by me and we
won't bother about anything."  She made a place for him beside
her, and as he dropped into it she took his hand and patted it
sympathetically.

The touch was soothing, and he bore it patiently enough.
After a moment she lifted the hand with a little exclamation
of reproof.

"You degenerate person!  You have ceased to manicure.  What
has become of my excellent training?"

Chilcote laughed.  "Run to seed," he said, lightly.  Then his
expression and tone changed.  "When a man gets to my age," he
added, "little social luxuries don't seem worth while; the
social necessities are irksome enough.  Personally, I envy the
beggar in the street--exempt from shaving, exempt from
washing--"

Lillian raised her delicate eyebrows.  The sentiment was
beyond her perception.

"But manicuring," she said, reproachfully, "when you have such
nice hands.  It was your hands and your eyes, you know, that
first appealed to me."  She sighed gently, with a touch of
sentimental remembrance.  "And I thought it so strong of you
not to wear rings--it must be such a temptation."  She looked
down at her own fingers, glittering with jewels.

But the momentary pleasure of her touch was gone.  Chilcote
drew away his hand and picked up the book that lay between
them.

"Other Men's Shoes!" he read.  "A novel, of course?"

She smiled.  "Of course.  Such a fantastic story.  Two men
changing identities."

Chilcote rose and walked back to the mantel-piece.

"Changing identities?" he said, with a touch of interest.

"Yes.  One man is an artist, the other a millionaire; one
wants to know what fame is like, the other wants to know how
it feels to be really sinfully rich.  So they exchange
experiences for a month."  She laughed.

Chilcote laughed as well.  "But how?" he asked.

"Oh, I told you the idea was absurd.  Fancy two people so much
alike that neither their friends nor their servants see any
difference!  Such a thing couldn't be, could it?"

Chilcote looked down at the fire.  "No," he said, doubtfully.
"No.  I suppose not."

"Of course not.  There are likenesses, but not freak
likenesses like that."

Chilcote's head was bent as she spoke, but at the last words
he lifted it.

"By Jove!  I don't know about that!" he said.  "Not so very
long ago I saw two men so much alike that I--I--"  He stopped.

Lillian smiled.

He colored quickly.  "You doubt me?" he asked.

"My dear Jack!"  Her voice was delicately reproachful.

"Then you think that my--my imagination has been playing me
tricks?"

"My dear boy!  Nothing of the kind.  Come back to your place
and tell me the whole tale?"  She smiled again, and patted the
couch invitingly.

But Chilcote's balance had been upset.  For the first time he
saw Lillian as one of the watchful, suspecting crowd before
which he was constantly on guard.  Acting on the sensation, he
moved suddenly towards the door.

"I--I have an appointment at the House," he said, quickly.
"I'll look in another day when--when I'm better company.  I
know I'm a bear to-day.  My nerves, you know."  He came back
to the couch and took her hand; then he touched her cheek for
an instant with his fingers.

"Good-bye," he said.  "Take care of yourself--and the kitten,"
he added, with forced gayety, as he crossed the room.


That afternoon Chilcote's nervous condition reached its
height.  All day he had avoided the climax, but no evasion can
be eternal, and this he realized as he sat in his place on the
Opposition benches during the half-hour of wintry twilight
that precedes the turning-on of the lights.  He realized it in
that half-hour, but the application of the knowledge followed
later, when the time came for him to question the government
on some point relating to a proposed additional dry-dock at
Talkley, the naval base.  Then for the first time he knew that
the sufferings of the past months could have a visible as well
as a hidden side--could disorganize his daily routine as they
had already demoralized his will and character.

The thing came upon him with extraordinary lack of preparation.
He sat through the twilight with tolerable calm, his nervousness
showing only in the occasional lifting of his hand to his collar
and the frequent changing of his position; but when the lights
were turned on, and he leaned back in his seat with closed eyes,
he became conscious of a curious impression--a disturbing idea
that through his closed lids he could see the faces on the
opposite side of the House, see the rows of eyes, sleepy,
interested, or vigilant.  Never before had the sensation
presented itself, but, once set up, it ran through all his
susceptibilities.  By an absurd freak of fancy those varying
eyes seemed to pierce through his lids, almost through his
eyeballs.  The cold perspiration that was his daily horror
broke out on his forehead; and at the same moment Fraide, his
leader, turned, leaned over the back of his seat, and touched
his knee.

Chilcote started and opened his eyes.  "I--I believe I was
dozing," he said, confusedly.

Fraide smiled his dry, kindly smile.  "A fatal admission for a
member of the Opposition," he said.  "But I was looking for
you earlier in the day, Chilcote.  There is something behind
this Persian affair.  I believe it to be a mere first move on
Russia's part.  You big trading people will find it worth
watching."

Chilcote shrugged his shoulders.  "Oh, I don't know," he said.
"I scarcely believe in it.  Lakely put a match to the powder
in the 'St. George's', but 'twill only be a noise and a puff
of smoke."

But Fraide did not smile.  "What is the feeling down at Wark?"
he asked.  "Has it awakened any interest?"

"At Wark?  Oh, I--I don't quite know.  I have been a little
out of touch with Wark in the last few weeks.  A man has so
many private affairs to look to--"  He was uneasy under his
chief's scrutiny.

Fraide's lips parted as if to make reply, but with a certain
dignified reticence he closed them again and turned away.

Chilcote leaned back in his place and furtively passed his
hand over his forehead.  His mind was possessed by one
consideration--the consideration of himself.  He glanced down
the crowded, lighted House to the big glass doors; he glanced
about him at his colleagues, indifferent or interested; then
surreptitiously his fingers strayed to his waistcoat-pocket.

Usually he carried his morphia tabloids with him, but to-day
by a lapse of memory he had left them at home.  He knew this,
nevertheless he continued to search, while the need of the
drug rushed through him with a sense of physical sickness.  He
lost hold on the business of the House; unconsciously he half
rose from his seat.

The man next him looked up.  "Hold your ground, Chilcote," he
said.  "Rayforth is drying up."

With a wave of relief Chilcote dropped back into his place.
Whatever the confusion in his mind, it was evidently not
obvious in his face.

Rayforth resumed his seat, there was the usual slight stir and
pause, then Salett, the member for Salchester, rose.

With Salett's first words Chilcote's hand again sought his
pocket, and again his eyes strayed towards the doors, but
Fraide's erect head and stiff back just in front of him held
him quiet.  With an effort he pulled out his notes and
smoothed them nervously; but though his gaze was fixed on the
pages, not a line of Blessington's clear writing reached his
mind.  He glanced at the face of the Speaker, then at the
faces on the Treasury Bench, then once more he leaned back in
his seat.

The man beside him saw the movement.  "Funking the drydock?"
he whispered, jestingly.

"No"--Chilcote turned to him suddenly--"but I feel beastly
--have felt beastly for weeks."

The other looked at him more closely.  "Anything wrong?" he
asked.  It was a novel experience to be confided in by
Chilcote.

"Oh, it's the grind-the infernal grind." As he said it, it
seemed to him suddenly that his strength gave way.  He forgot
his companion, his position, everything except the urgent
instinct that filled mind and body.  Scarcely knowing what he
did, he rose and leaned forward to whisper in Fraide's ear.

Fraide was seen to turn, his thin face interested and
concerned, then he was seen to nod once or twice in
acquiescence, and a moment later Chilcote stepped quietly out
of his place.

One or two men spoke to him as he hurried from the House, but
he shook them off almost uncivilly, and, making for the
nearest exit, hailed a cab.

The drive to Grosvenor Square was a misery.  Time after time
he changed from one corner of the cab to the other, his acute
internal pains prolonged by every delay and increased by every
motion.  At last, weak in all his limbs, he stepped from the
vehicle at his own door.

Entering the house, he instantly mounted the stairs and passed
to his own rooms.  Opening the bedroom door, he peered in
cautiously, then pushed the door wide.  The light had been
switched on, but the room was empty.  With a nervous
excitement scarcely to be kept in check, he entered, shut and
locked the door, then moved to the wardrobe, and, opening it,
drew the tube of tabloids from the shelf.

His hand shook violently as he carried the tube to the table.
The strain of the day, the anxiety of the past hours, with
their final failure, had found sudden expression.  Mixing a
larger dose than any he had before allowed himself, he
swallowed it hastily, and, walking across the room, threw
himself, fully dressed, upon the bed.


IV


To those whose sphere lies in the west of London, Fleet Street
is little more than a name, and Clifford's Inn a mere dead
letter.  Yet Clifford's Inn lies as safely stowed away in the
shadow of the Law Courts as any grave under a country church
wall; it is as green of grass, as gray of stone, as
irresponsive to the passing footstep.

Facing the railed-in grass-plot of its little court stood the
house in which John Loder had his rooms.  Taken at a first
glance, the house had the deserted air of an office, inhabited
only in the early hours; but, as night fell, lights would be
seen to show out, first on one floor, then on another--faint,
human beacons unconsciously signalling each other.  The rooms
Loder inhabited were on the highest floor; and from their
windows one might gaze philosophically on the tree-tops,
forgetting the uneven pavement and the worn railing that
hemmed them round.  In the landing outside the rooms his name
appeared above his door, but the paint had been soiled by
time, and the letters for the most part reduced to shadows; so
that, taken in conjunction with the gaunt staircase and bare
walls, the place had a cheerless look.

Inside, however, the effect was somewhat mitigated.  The room
on the right hand, as one entered the small passage that
served as hall, was of fair size, though low-ceiled.  The
paint of the wall-panelling, like the name above the outer
door, had long ago been worn to a dirty and nondescript hue,
and the floor was innocent of carpet; yet in the middle of
the room stood a fine old Cromwell table, and on the plain
deal book-shelves and along the mantel-piece were some
valuable books--political and historical.  There were no
curtains on the windows, and a common reading-lamp with a
green shade stood on a desk.  It was the room of a man with
few hobbies and no pleasures--who existed because he was
alive, and worked because he must.

Three nights after the great fog John Loder sat by his desk in
the light of the green-shaded lamp.  The remains of a very
frugal supper stood on the centre-table, and in the grate a
small and economical-looking fire was burning.

Having written for close on two hours, he pushed back his
chair and stretched his cramped fingers; then he yawned, rose,
and slowly walked across the room.  Reaching the mantel-piece,
he took a pipe from the pipe-rack and some tobacco from the
jar that stood behind the books.  His face looked tired and a
little worn, as is common with men who have worked long at an
uncongenial task.  Shredding the tobacco between his hands, he
slowly filled the pipe, then lighted it from the fire with a
spill of twisted paper.

Almost at the moment that he applied the light the sound of
steps mounting the uncarpeted stairs outside caught his
attention, and he raised his head to listen.

Presently the steps halted and he heard a match struck.  The
stranger was evidently uncertain of his whereabouts.  Then the
steps moved forward again and paused.

An expression of surprise crossed Loder's face, and he laid
down his pipe.  As the visitor knocked, he walked quietly
across the room and opened the door.

The passage outside was dark, and the new-comer drew back
before the light from the room.

"Mr. Loder--?" he began, interrogatively.  Then all at once he
laughed in embarrassed apology.  "Forgive me," he said.  "The
light rather dazzled me.  I didn't realize who it was."

Loder recognized the voice as belonging to his acquaintance of
the fog.

"Oh, it's you!" he said.  "Won't you come in?"  His voice was
a little cold.  This sudden resurrection left him surprised
--and not quite pleasantly surprised.  He walked back to the
fireplace, followed by his guest.

The guest seemed nervous and agitated.  "I must apologize for
the hour of my visit," he said.  "My--my time is not quite my
own."

Loder waved his hand.  "Whose time is his own?" he said.

Chilcote, encouraged by the remark, drew nearer to the fire.
Until this moment he had refrained from looking directly at
his host; now, however, he raised his eyes, and, despite his
preparation, he recoiled unavoidably before the extraordinary
resemblance.  Seen here, in the casual surroundings of a badly
furnished and crudely lighted room, it was even more
astounding than it had been in the mystery of the fog.

"Forgive me," he said again.  "It is physical--purely
physical.  I am bowled over against my will."

Loder smiled.  The slight contempt that Chilcote had first
inspired rose again, and with it a second feeling less easily
defined.  The man seemed so unstable, so incapable, yet so
grotesquely suggestive to himself.

"The likeness is rather overwhelming," he said; "but not heavy
enough to sink under.  Come nearer the fire.  What brought you
here?  Curiosity?"  There was a wooden arm-chair by the
fireplace.  He indicated it with a wave of the hand; then
turned and took up his smouldering pipe.

Chilcote, watching him furtively, obeyed the gesture and sat
down.

"It is extraordinary!" he said, as if unable to dismiss the
subject.  "It--it is quite extraordinary!"

The other glanced round.  "Let's drop it," he said.  "It's so
confoundedly obvious."  Then his tone changed.  "Won't you
smoke?" he asked.

"Thanks." Chilcote began to fumble for his cigarettes.

But his host forestalled him.  Taking a box from the
mantel-piece, he held it out.

"My one extravagance!" he said, ironically.  "My resources
bind me to one; and I think I have made a wise selection.  It
is about the only vice we haven't to pay for six times over."
He glanced sharply at the face so absurdly like his own, then,
lighting a fresh spill, offered his guest a light.

Chilcote moistened his cigarette and leaned forward.  In the
flare of the paper his face looked set and anxious, but Loder
saw that the lips did not twitch as they had done on the
previous occasion that he had given him a light, and a look of
comprehension crossed his eyes.

"What will you drink?  Or, rather, will you have a whiskey?
I keep nothing else.  Hospitality is one of the debarred
luxuries."

Chilcote shook his head.  "I seldom drink.  But don't let that
deter you."

Loder smiled.  "I have one drink in the twenty-four hours
--generally at two o'clock, when my night's work is done.  A
solitary man has to look where he is going."

"You work till two?"

"Two--or three."

Chilcote's eyes wandered to the desk.  "You write?" he asked.

The other nodded curtly.

"Books?" Chilcote's tone was anxious.

Loder laughed, and the bitter note showed in his voice.

"No--not books," he said.

Chilcote leaned back in his chair and passed his hand across
his face.  The strong wave of satisfaction that the words woke
in him was difficult to conceal.

"What is your work?"

Loder turned aside.  "You must not ask that," he said,
shortly.  "When a man has only one capacity, and the capacity
has no outlet, he is apt to run to seed in a wrong direction.
I cultivate weeds--at abominable labor and a very small
reward."  He stood with his back to the fire, facing his
visitor; his attitude was a curious blending of pride,
defiance, and despondency.

Chilcote leaned forward again.  "Why speak of yourself like
that?  You are a man of intelligence and education."  He spoke
questioningly, anxiously.

"Intelligence and education!" Loder laughed shortly.  "London
is cemented with intelligence.  And education!  What is
education?  The court dress necessary to presentation, the wig
and gown necessary to the barrister.  But do the wig and gown
necessarily mean briefs?  Or the court dress royal favor?
Education is the accessory; it is influence that is essential.
You should know that."

Chilcote moved restlessly in his seat.  "You talk bitterly,"
he said.

The other looked up.  "I think bitterly, which is worse.  I am
one of the unlucky beggars who, in the expectation of money,
has been denied a profession--even a trade, to which to cling
in time of shipwreck; and who, when disaster comes, drift out
to sea.  I warned you the other night to steer clear of me.  I
come under the head of flotsam!"

Chilcote's face lighted.  "You came a cropper?" he asked.

"No.  It was some one else who came the cropper--I only dealt
in results."

"Big results?"

"A drop from a probable eighty thousand pounds to a certain
eight hundred."

Chilcote glanced up.  "How did you take it?" he asked.

"I?  Oh, I was twenty-five then.  I had a good many hopes and
a lot of pride; but there is no place for either in a working
world."

"But your people?"

"My last relation died with the fortune."

"Your friends?"

Loder laid down his pipe.  "I told you I was twenty-five," he
said, with the tinge of humor that sometimes crossed his
manner.  "Doesn't that explain things?  I had never taken
favors in prosperity; a change of fortune was not likely to
alter my ways.  As I have said, I was twenty-five."  He
smiled.  "When I realized my position I sold all my belongings
with the exception of a table and a few books--which I stored.
I put on a walking-suit and let my beard grow; then, with
my entire capital in my pocket, I left England without saying
good-bye to any one."

"For how long?"

"Oh, for six years.  I wandered half over Europe and through a
good part of Asia in the time."

"And then?"

"Then?  Oh, I shaved off the beard and came back to London!"
He looked at Chilcote, partly contemptuous, partly amused at
his curiosity.

But Chilcote sat staring in silence.  The domination of the
other's personality and the futility of his achievements
baffled him.

Loder saw his bewilderment.  "You wonder what the devil I came
into the world for," he said.  "I sometimes wonder the same
myself."

At his words a change passed over Chilcote.  He half rose,
then dropped back into his seat.

The Despenser fret is to be found twice.

In front of the altar-rails is the large boss from which
used to hang the sanctuary lamp, the sacred flame of which was
kept ever trimmed and bright, as a sign that "the house was evermore
watching to God."

=Altar.

=--The Purbeck marble altar is supposed by some to have been
the altar mentioned in the Abbey Chronicles of 1239, but any
Early English features have been destroyed beyond recognition.
It is reputed to be the largest altar in England, but, at any
rate, it may be said to be the longest.

Originally set up in its present situation, it seems to have
been buried in the choir by the monks, perhaps by some who were
not so mercenary as the rest. Sixty-eight years afterwards
it was found, and its purpose being recognised, it was set up
in the middle of the choir as a Communion table.

In 1730 it was transferred to the aisle, the churchwardens' accounts
stating that 12_s._ was paid for so doing, and that 2_s._ 6_d._ was
given "to the men that did it for working all night."

The "large entire blue stone" was then cut into two lengthwise, and
was further desecrated by being converted into seats for the north
porch.[22] Earl Beauchamp, at his own expense, had the two slabs
restored to their original use.

Considering what the marble has gone through, its size has been
well maintained.
In 1607 it was 13 feet 8 inches by 3 feet 6 inches by 7 inches;
and now it is 13 feet 6 inches by 3 feet 5 inches by 5 inches.
It is supported by a massive framing of oak.

[Illustration: _Photo D. Gwynne._ THE SEDILIA.]
=Sedilia.=--These are on the south side in the canted bay of the
apse.

These sadly mutilated remains of a once glorious work are especially
interesting.

Originally they were decorated with rich colour and
gold, much of which still in parts remains.

The canopy of tabernacle work has been ruthlessly destroyed,
together with the major part of the easternmost section.

All the shafting is very richly moulded with a great number of
diminutive mouldings, principally ogee and hollow.
Foliage work of rare beauty and representations of
grotesque animals form the greater part of the ornament. There
are interesting remains of diaper work in the wall which forms
the back. The plinth and seats are probably modern
work.

At the top are placed some pieces of battlement work, of which
there is a great amount in different parts of the
building.

It seems a pity that the remains of the sedilia which lie
elsewhere in the church cannot be placed together in position
here--not "restored," but honestly pieced as well as may be done
with care and patience.

The north-east pier that supports the tower bears a plain corbel,
supporting what is supposed to be the remains of an oak case for
the Saunce-bell or Sanctus-bell.

=Tiles.=--During the wholesale restoration of 1875 and following
years some old tiles were found, after the pattern of which
the present tiles were made. The fashion of paving buildings
of the age of Tewkesbury Abbey with glazed and glossy
machine-made tiles, all cut mathematically true, is much
to be deprecated.

Time has done much, and will do more, to remove the glaze, but
nothing will ever remove the stiff printed look of the pattern.

The black patches of tiles are rather heavy in appearance, but the
pavement looks better so than it would if broken up with streaky
slabs and squares of glaring white marble incised with more or less
pictorial designs relieved with a background of black cement.

The choir of Tewkesbury in this respect has fared better than
that of Gloucester, though a little more might have been made of
the graves of the illustrious dead who are known to have been buried
underneath.

=Windows of the Choir.=--These fourteenth century windows
are the chief glory of the choir. There are seven in all,
and though they have suffered much from wilful damage and
neglect, there are perhaps no others in England containing
quite so much glass of the same date, and in such good condition
as a whole.[23] Every one must rejoice that in 1828 lack of funds
prevented these windows from being thoroughly restored.

The windows nearest to the tower have four lights each,
and the tracery is comparatively simple though flowing and free.

The next two on either side of the choir are slightly more
elaborate and contain five lights each, while the east window
is quite different from the rest. It has five lights,
and the head of the window contains a fine Catharine-wheel.

In the north-west window (_i.e._, immediately over the Warwick
Chapel) are--1. Fitz-Hamon; 2. Robert Fitzroy; 3. Hugh le
Despenser; 4.

Gilbert de Clare (third), the tenth Earl of Gloucester.
In the south-west window, _i.e._, the one exactly opposite
to the last mentioned, are--1.

Gilbert de Clare (the first of the name); 2. Lord de la
Zouch; 3. Richard de Clare; 4.

Gilbert de Clare (the second).
These knights are all in armour, and are valuable as giving
accurate representation of the armour and knightly gear of
their time.

Above the knights are represented canopies, and in the heads
of the windows are scrolls of vine-leaves.

The bodies of the De Clares lie below the choir pavement, almost
in a line with these two windows.

The other windows on either side contain Scripture subjects,
many of them very fragmentary: Daniel, David, Abraham,
Jeremiah, Solomon, and Joel are, however, easily to be found.

The east window represents the Last Judgment. In the centre
Christ is depicted with uplifted hands, on which are the stigmata
of the Passion. The side lights, from their unsymmetrical
arrangement, would seem to have been
rearranged, or rather disarranged, at some time. The
Apostles would naturally be grouped on either side, in
the outer lights. The other two lights represent St. John
and the Blessed Virgin. Of these figures the heads, which are
modern, were put in (free of charge) in 1828 by a London
glass-painter named Collins. In the five panels below the
figures are groups of persons arising from their graves; one
group represents an angel disputing with the evil one for the
possession of three persons bound with a chain. At the bottom
are armorial bearings.

In the floor of the choir there are graves in which many
notable persons, who made their mark in history, were
buried.

Exactly under the central point of the vaulting of the tower is the
site of the grave of Prince Edward, son of Henry VI. and Margaret
Anjou.

He died on the 4th of May, 1471, and with him the last hope
of the Red Rose party was finally crushed.

A modern brass, with a Latin inscription which was composed
by Mr.

J.D.T. Niblett, records that "Hic jacet Edwardus princeps
Walliæ, crudeliter interfectus dum adhuc juvenis Anno Domini
1471, mensis Maii die quarto.

Eheu, hominum furor: matris tu sola lux es, et gregis ultima
spes,"--or in English, that "Here lies Edward, Prince of Wales,
brutally murdered while but a youth, in the year of our Lord 1471,
on the 4th of May.

Alas! the madness of men. Thou art the only light of thy
mother, and the last hope of the flock." Holinshed writes
that the body of the Prince "was homelie interred with the
other simple corpses in the church of the monasterie of the
blacke monks in Teukesburie." Another MS., which gives a list
of noblemen slain in the battle of Tewkesbury, states more
definitely that he was "buried in the midst of the convent choir
in the monastery there."

Traces of a coffin-lid were found near the north-west pier of the
tower, and from other evidence it was taken to be the tomb of the
young prince, and this would give more colour to Hall's statement
that he "was buried without any solemnity among some mean persons
in the church of the black friars in Tewkesbury."

In 1796, when several alterations were made in the church,
a brass plate was inserted in a stone over a tomb in the choir
supposed to be that of the Prince. This tablet is now on the
wall of the south transept. It runs:

"NE TOTA PEREAT MEMORIA EDWARDI PRINCIPIS WALLIÆ
POST PROELIUM MEMORABILE IN VICINIS ARVIS DEPUGNATUM CRUDELITER
OCCISI HANC TABULAM HONORARIAM DEPONI CURABAT PIETAS TEWKESBURIENSIS
ANNO DOMINI MDCCXCVI."

Or in English: "That the memory of Edward, Prince of Wales (brutally
murdered after the famous battle fought in the fields close by),
perish not utterly, the piety of the people of Tewkesbury had this
memorial tablet laid down, A.D. 1796."

This tablet is mentioned in the accounts for that year, and the
cost is put down at £10; but perhaps this included the
composition of the Latin inscription, and the stone in which
the plate was inserted. This _pietas Tewkesburiensis_ still
survives, as flowers are annually laid upon the site of the
grave.

Before this there was, according to Dingley, who wrote in 1680, a
"fair tombstone of grey marble, the brass whereof has bin pickt out
by sacrilegious hands, directly underneath the Tower of this Church,
at the entrance into the Quire, and sayed to be layd over Prince
Edward, who lost his life in cool blood in the dispute between York
and Lancaster, at which time the Lancastrians had the overthrow."

Another grave under the tower was that of the Duke of Warwick,
who is sometimes said to have been created and crowned King
of the Isle of Wight by Henry VI. He died at the age of
twenty-one, and was buried, at his own request, between the
stalls in the choir. At the time the choir was repaved in
1875 a grave of stone filled with rubble was found, together with
some bones of a man of herculean size.

These, no doubt, were those of the Duke who was buried here in 1446.

The large marble slab that formerly covered the grave disappeared
early in this century, but the brasses that were originally in
it had been taken away long before. Cecily the Duchess of
Warwick, a daughter of the Earl of Salisbury, was buried in
the same place in 1450.

Further eastward, in a line with the Warwick Chapel, are the
graves known as those of the =De Clares=.

The first is a stone with an inscription running round the edge,
in old French, as follows: "Ci gît Maud de Burgh la veuve comitisse
de Gloucestre et Hertford, que mourust le 2 juillet l'ann grâce 1315.

Nous cherchons celle que est à venir." This slab, which is of
large size, covers a well-wrought stone grave, and must have
contained a very handsome brass, judging by the matrix.
The next grave contains the remains of the Lady Maud's
husband, Gilbert de Clare, the third of that name, the tenth
Earl of Gloucester and Earl of Hertford.

Though young in years he had a wise head, for Edward II. made him
his regent when he himself was fighting in Scotland, and later again
in 1313 when fighting in France.

Gilbert de Clare the third was killed at Bannockburn in 1314,
and was laid to rest next to his father. The tablet gives his
arms, and the inscription runs: "Gilbertus tertius
nomine Glocestrie et Hertfordie comes decimus ultimus, obiit
23 Junii, 1314, proelio occisus, Scotus gavisus."

Which being freely translated is: "Gilbert, the third of
the name, tenth and last Earl of Gloucester and Hertford,
died on June 23, 1314.

He was slain in battle, to the joy of the Scots."
The tomb next to this is that of his father, Gilbert the second,
usually known as the _Red Earl_.

He married the Princess Joan of Acre, a daughter of Edward I.

This Earl was at first an important figure in the revolt of the
Righteous Earl, Sir Simon de Montfort; but later, having changed
his views and his side, was an important factor in his former
leader's final overthrow at Evesham in 1265.

Fragmentary remains only of a coffin assumed to be his were found
in 1875.

His tablet says: "Gilbertus secundus, cognomine Rufus, comes
Glocestrie octavus, et Hertfordie septimus, obiit
septimo Decembris, anno domini 1295.

Vir strenuus et fortis cui deerat timor mortis. Ora et
pugna."

Or in English: "Gilbert the second, surnamed the Red, eighth
Earl of Gloucester and seventh of Hertford, died the 7th of
December, A.D.

1295. A stout and brave man, who had no fear of death.
Pray and fight."

In the next grave lies Gilbert de Clare, the first who bore
the double title. His interest to us consists in the fact
that his seal is one of those attached to Magna Charta, and
he took a considerable part in the Barons' struggles against
King John. He died in Brittany, but was buried here by his
own wish. Very little of his coffin remains.

The tablet to him says: "Gilbertus de Clare, nomine primus, comes
Glocestrie sextus et Hertfordie quintus, obiit 25^o Octobris, anno
domini 1230.

Magna Carta est lex, caveat deinde rex"; _i.e._, "Gilbert de
Clare, the first of that name, sixth Earl of Gloucester and
fifth of Hertford, died October 25th, A.D. 1230.

Magna Charta is law, let the King henceforth beware."[24]
The next grave is that of Richard, the second of that name,
the son of Earl Gilbert. He is usually believed to have been
poisoned at the table of Peter de Savoy at Emersfield in
Kent. To his memory a most gorgeous tomb was set up in the
Choir, composed of marbles, precious stones, mosaic, gold and
silver, and bearing a large image of the Earl in silver on the top.

Weever, in "Funeral Monuments," gives the epitaph:

"Hic pudor Hippoliti, Paridis gena, sensus Ulyssis, Æneæ pietas,
Hectoris ira jacet."

And he translates it:

"Chaste Hippolite, and Paris fair, Ulysses wise and sly, Æneas kind,
fierce Hector, here jointly entombed lye."

The brass tablet says: "Ricardus de Clare, comes Glocestrie
septimus and Hertfordie sextus, obiit 15^o Julii, anno que domini
1262.

Dum petit crucem sic denique petit lucem"; _i.e._, "Richard de
Clare, seventh Earl of Gloucester and sixth Earl of
Hertford, died July 15th, A.D. 1262.

While he seeks the cross, he seeks thereafter light." This alludes
to his having been a Crusader.

Richard de Clare's entrails were buried at Canterbury,
and his heart at Tonbridge, at which place he had founded a monastery
of Austin Friars.

=Despenser Graves.=--Between the graves of the De Clares and
the steps of the altar are the Despenser graves. The grave
on the north side nearest to the Fitz-Hamon or Founder's
Chapel is that of Richard Despenser. His brass runs: "Ricardus
le Despenser baro octavus, et Burghersh baro quintus, obiit
anno domini 1414, dum adhuc adolescens.
Flos crescit et mox evanescit"; or in English: "Richard, eighth
Baron Despenser and fifth Baron Burghersh, died A.D. 1414, whilst
still a youth.

A flower grows and soon passes away."

He was married to Elizabeth Nevill, daughter of the Earl
of Westmorland, but, dying at Merton at the age of 19, left no
family.

He was the last of the male line of the Despensers, and is buried
next to his father, Thomas le Despenser, who was laid to rest in
the central grave of the three.

His record on the brass is: "Thomas le Despenser, baro
septimus, et Gloucestriæ comes tertius decimus et ultimus
crudeliter interfectus 15^o Januarii, anno domini 1400. Cibell
angau na cywillydd."

This being translated means: "Thomas, seventh Baron Despenser, and
thirteenth and last Earl of Gloucester, was brutally killed on the
15th of January, A.D. 1400.

Rather death than dishonour."
He had married Constance, daughter of the Earl of Cornwall and niece
of the Black Prince.

Being attainted in 1399 after the deposition of Richard II.,
whom he had faithfully served, he was deprived of both his titles
and executed at Bristol in 1400.

His grave was under the lamp which burned before the altar. In
1875 no trace of his grave was found, but there is a
fragment of a statue in the "museum" in which he is clad in
a blue mantle, wearing the badge of the Garter.

The third and southernmost of the Despenser graves is that
of Isabelle, Countess of Warwick, Abergavenny, Worcester, and
Albemarle.
The inscription on her brass is: "Mementote dominæ, Isabelle
le Despenser, Comitissæ de Warwick, quæ obiit, anno domini
1439, die Sancti Johannis Evangelistæ. Mercy, Lord Jesu";
_i.e._, "Remember the lady Isabelle le Despenser, Countess
of Warwick, who died A.D. 1439, on St. John the Evangelist's
Day. Mercy, Lord Jesu."

This lady was the daughter of Thomas le Despenser, next to whom
she lies here, and though she was given in marriage to Richard
Beauchamp when she was only eleven years old, she is chiefly known
from the title of her second husband, who was her first husband's
cousin.

Her grave was identified in 1875, and her remains were found
enclosed in a shroud and in a tomb of solid masonry, 7 feet
by 2 feet 5 inches, by 2 feet 5 inches.

The covering slab had a cross incised with the words "Mercy,
Lord Jhu" (Jesu).

The top of the slab had traces of mortar upon it, pointing to the
fact that her tomb was built immediately over it.

Will you consider it?  At least
consider it.  Remember, if there is a risk, it is I who am
running it.  On your own showing, you have no position to
jeopardize."

The other laughed curtly.

"Before I go to-night will you promise me to consider it?"

"No."

"Then you will send me your decision by wire to-morrow.  I
won't take your answer now."

Loder freed his arm abruptly.  "Why not?" he asked.

Chilcote smiled nervously.  "Because I know men--and men's
temptations.  We are all very strong till the quick is
touched; then we all wince.  It's morphia with one man,
ambitions with another.  In each case it's only a matter of
sooner or later."  He laughed in his satirical, unstrung way,
and held out his hand.  "'You have my address," he said.  "Au
revoir."

Loder pressed the hand and dropped it.  "Goodbye," he said,
meaningly.  Then he crossed the room quietly and held the door
open.  "Good-bye," he said again as the other passed him.

As he crossed the threshold, Chilcote paused.  "Au revoir," he
corrected, with emphasis.

Until the last echo of his visitor's steps had died away Loder
stood with his hand on the door; then, closing it quietly, he
turned and looked round the room.  For a considerable space he
stood there as if weighing the merits of each object; then
very slowly he moved to one of the book-shelves, drew out
May's Parliamentary Practice, and, carrying it to the desk,
readjusted the lamp.


VI

All the next day Chilcote moved in a fever of excitement.  Hot
with hope one moment, cold with fever the next, he rushed with
restless energy into every task that presented itself--only to
drop it as speedily.  Twice during the morning he drove to the
entrance of Clifford's Inn, but each time his courage failed
him and he returned to Grosvenor Square--to learn that the
expected message from Loder had not come.

It was a wearing condition of mind; but at worst it was
scarcely more than an exaggeration of what his state had been
for months, and made but little obvious difference in his
bearing or manner.

In the afternoon he took his place in the House, but, though
it was his first appearance since his failure of two days ago,
he drew but small personal notice.  When he chose, his manner
could repel advances with extreme effect, and of late men had
been prone to draw away from him.

In one of the lobbies he encountered Fraide surrounded by a
group of friends.  With his usual furtive haste he would have
passed on; but, moving away from his party, the old man
accosted him.  He was always courteously particular in his
treatment of Chilcote, as the husband of his ward and
godchild.

"Better, Chilcote?" he said, holding out his hand.

At the sound of the low, rather formal tones, so
characteristic of the old statesman, a hundred memories rose
to Chilcote's mind, a hundred hours, distasteful in the living
and unbearable in the recollection; and with them the new
flash of hope, the new possibility of freedom.  In a sudden
rush of confidence he turned to his leader.

"I believe I've found a remedy for my nerves," he said.  "I
--I believe I'm going to be anew man."  He laughed with a
touch of excitement,

Fraide pressed his fingers kindly, "That is right," he said.
"That is right.  I called at Grosvenor Square this morning,
but Eve told me your illness of the other day was not serious.
She was very busy this morning--she could only spare me a
quarter of an hour.  She is indefatigable over the social side
of your prospects.  Chilcote.  You owe her a large debt.  A
popular wife means a great deal to a politician."

The steady eyes of his companion disturbed Chilcote.

He drew away his hand.

"Eve is unique," he said, vaguely.

Fraide smiled.  "That is right," he said again.  "Admiration
is too largely excluded from modern marriages."  And with a
courteous excuse he rejoined his friends.

It was dinner-time before Chilcote could desert the House, but
the moment departure was possible he hurried to Grosvenor
Square.

As he entered the house, the hall was empty.  He swore
irritably under his breath and pressed the nearest bell.
Since his momentary exaltation in Fraide's presence, his
spirits had steadily fallen, until now they hung at the lowest
ebb.

As he waited in unconcealed impatience for an answer to his
summons, he caught sight of his man Allsopp at the head of the
stairs.

"Come here!" he called, pleased to find some one upon whom to
vent his irritation.  "Has that wire come for me?"

"No, sir.  I inquired five minutes back."

"Inquire again."

"Yes, sir."  Allsopp disappeared.

A second after his disappearance the bell of the hall door
whizzed loudly.

Chileote started.  All sudden sounds, like all strong lights,
affected him.  He half moved to the door, then stopped himself
with a short exclamation.  At the same instant Allsopp
reappeared.

Chilcote turned on him excitedly.

"What the devil's the meaning of this?" he said.  "A battery
of servants in the house and nobody to open the hall door!"

Allsopp looked embarrassed.  "Crapham is coming directly, sir.
He only left the hall to ask Jeffries--"

Chilcote turned.  "Confound Crapham!" he exclaimed.  "Go and
open the door yourself."

Allsopp hesitated, his dignity struggling with his obedience.
As he waited, the bell sounded again.

"Did you hear me?" Chilcote said.

"Yes, sir."  Allsopp crossed the hall.

As the door was opened Chilcote passed his handkerchief from
one hand to the other in the tension of hope and fear; then,
as the sound of his own name in the shrill tones of a
telegraph-boy reached his ears, he let the handkerchief drop
to the ground.

Allsopp took the yellow envelope and carried it to his master.

"A telegram, sir," he said.  "And the boy wishes to know if
there is an answer."  Picking up Chilcote's handkerchief, he
turned aside with elaborate dignity.

Chilcote's hands were so unsteady that he could scarcely
insert his finger under the flap of the envelope.  Tearing off
a corner, he wrenched the covering apart and smoothed out the
flimsy pink paper.

The message was very simple, consisting of but seven words:

   "Shall expect you at eleven to-night.-LODER."

He read it two or three times, then he looked up.  "No
answer," he said, mechanically; and to his own ears the relief
in his voice sounded harsh and unnatural.

Exactly as the clocks chimed eleven Chilcote mounted the
stairs to Loder's rooms.  But this time there was more of
haste than of uncertainty in his steps, and, reaching the
landing, he crossed it in a couple of strides and knocked
feverishly on the door.

It opened at once, and Loder stood before him.

The occasion was peculiar.  For a moment neither spoke;
each involuntarily looked at the other with new eyes
and under changed conditions.  Each had assumed a fresh
stand-point in the other's thought.  The passing astonishment,
the half-impersonal curiosity that had previously tinged their
relationship, was cast aside,
never to be reassumed.  In each, the other saw himself
--and something more.

As usual, Loder was the first to recover himself.

"I was expecting you," he said.  "Won't you come in?"

The words were almost the same as his words of the night
before, but his voice had a different ring; just as his face,
when he drew back into the room, had a different expression--a
suggestion of decision and energy that had been lacking
before.  Chilcote caught the difference as he crossed the
threshold, and for a bare second a flicker of something like
jealousy touched him.  But the sensation was fleeting.

"I have to thank you!" he said, holding out his hand.  He was
too well bred to show by a hint that he understood the drop in
the other's principles.  But Loder broke down the artifice.

"Let's be straight with each other, since everybody else has
to be deceived," he said, taking the other's hand.  "You have
nothing to thank me for, and you know it.  It's a touch of the
old Adam.  You tempted me, and I fell."  He laughed, but below
the laugh ran a note of something like triumph--the curious
triumph of a man who has known the tyranny of strength and
suddenly appreciates the freedom of a weakness.

"You fully realize the thing you have proposed?" he added, in
a different tone.  "It's not too late to retract, even now."

Chilcote opened his lips, paused, then laughed in imitation of
his companion; but the laugh sounded forced.

"My dear fellow," he said at last, "I never retract."

"Never?"

"No."

"Then the bargain's sealed."

Loder walked slowly across the room, and, taking up his
position by the mantel-piece, looked at his companion.  The
similarity between them as they faced each other seemed
abnormal, defying even the closest scrutiny.  And yet, so
mysterious is Nature even in her lapses, they were subtly,
indefinably different.  Chilcote was Loder deprived of one
essential: Loder, Chilcote with that essential bestowed.  The
difference lay neither in feature, in coloring, nor in height,
but in that baffling, illusive inner illumination that some
call individuality, and others soul.

Something of this idea, misted and tangled by nervous
imagination, crossed Chilcote's mind in that moment of
scrutiny, but he shrank from it apprehensively.

"I--I came to discuss details," he said, quickly, crossing the
space that divided him from his host.  "Shall we--?  Are you--?"
He paused uneasily.

"I'm entirely in your hands." Loder spoke with abrupt decision.
Moving to the table, he indicated a chair, and drew another
forward for himself.

Both men sat down.

Chilcote leaned forward, resting elbows on the table.  "There
will be several things to consider--" he began, nervously,
looking across at the other.

"Quite so."  Loder glanced back appreciatively.  "I thought
about those things the better part of last night.  To begin
with, I must study your handwriting.  I guarantee to get it
right, but it will take a month."

"A month!"

"Well, perhaps three weeks.  We mustn't make a mess of
things."

Chilcote shifted his position.

"Three weeks!" he repeated.  "Couldn't you--?"

"No; I couldn't." Loder spoke authoritatively.  "I might never
want to put pen to paper, but, on the other hand, I might have
to sign a check one day."  He laughed.  "Have you ever thought
of that?--that I might have to, or want to, sign a check?"

"No.  I confess that escaped me."

"You risk your fortune that you, may keep the place it bought
for you?" Loder laughed again.  "How do you know that I am not
a blackguard?" he added.  "How do you know that I won't clear
out one day and leave you high and dry?  What is to prevent
John Chilcote from realizing forty or fifty thousand pounds
and then making himself scarce?"

"You won't do that," Chilcote said, with unusual decision.  "I
told you your weakness last night; and it wasn't money.  Money
isn't the rock you'll split over."

"Then you think I'll split upon some rock?  But that's beyond
the question.  To get to business again.  You'll risk my
studying your signature?"

Chilcote nodded.

"Right!  Now item two."  Loder counted on his: fingers.  "I
must know the names and faces of your men friends as far as I
can.  Your woman friends don't count.  While I'm you, you will
be adamant."  He laughed again pleasantly.  "But the men are
essential--the backbone of the whole business."

"I have no men friends.  I don't trust the idea of
friendship."

"Acquaintances, then."

Chilcote looked up sharply.  "I think we score there," he
said.  "I have a reputation for absent-mindedness that will
carry you anywhere.  They tell me I can look through the most
substantial man in the House as if he were gossamer, though I
may have lunched with him the same day."

Loder smiled.  "By Jove!" he exclaimed.  "Fate Must have been
constructing this before either of us was born.  It dovetails
ridiculously.  But I must know your colleagues--even if it's
only to cut them.  You'll have to take me to the House."

"Impossible!"

"Not at all!" Again the tone of authority fell to Loder.
"I can pull my hat over my eyes and turn up my coat-collar.
Nobody will notice me.  We can choose the fall of the
afternoon.  I promise you 'twill be all right."

"Suppose the likeness should leak out?  It's a risk."

Loder laughed confidently.  "Tush, man!  Risk is the salt of
life.  I must see you at your post, and I must see the men
you work with."  He rose, walked across the room, and took
his pipe from the rack.  "When I go in for a thing, I like
to go in over head and ears," he added, as he opened his
tobacco-jar.

His pipe filled, he resumed his seat, resting his elbows on
the table in unconscious imitation of Chilcote.

"Got a match?" he said, laconically, holding out his band.

In response Chilcote drew his match-box from his pocket and
struck a light.  As their hands touched, an exclamation
escaped him.

"By Jove!" he said, with a fretful mixture of disappointment
and surprise.  "I hadn't noticed that!"  His eyes were fixed
in annoyed interest on Loder's extended hand.

Loder, following his glance, smiled.  "Odd that we should both
have overlooked it!  It clean escaped my mind.  It's rather an
ugly scar."  He lifted his hand till the light fell more fully
on it.  Above the second joint of the third finger ran a
jagged furrow, the reminder of a wound that had once laid bare
the bone.

Chilcote leaned forward.  "How did you come by it?" he asked.

The other shrugged his shoulders.  "Oh, that's ancient history."

"The results are present-day enough.  It's very awkward!  Very
annoying!"  Chilcote's spirits, at all times overeasily played
upon, were damped by this obstacle.

Loder, still looking at his hand, didn't seem to hear.
"There's only one thing to be done," he said.  "Each wear two
rings on the third finger of the left hand.  Two rings ought
to cover it."  He made a speculative measurement with the stem
of his pipe.

Chilcote still looked irritable and disturbed.  "I detest
rings.  I never wear rings."

Loder raised his eyes calmly.  "Neither do I," he said.  "But
there's no reason for bigotry."

But Chilcote's irritability was started.  He pushed back his
chair.  "I don't like the idea," he said.

The other eyed him amusedly.  "What a queer beggar you are!"
he said.  "You waive the danger of a man signing your checks
and shy at wearing a piece of jewelry.  I'll have a fair share
of individuality to study."

Chilcote moved restlessly.  "Everybody knows I detest jewelry."

"Everybody knows you are capricious.  It's got to be the rings
or nothing, so far as I make out."

Chilcote again altered his position, avoiding the other's
eyes.  At last, after a struggle with himself, he looked up.

"I suppose you're right!" he said.  "Have it your own way." It
was the first small, tangible concession to the stronger will.

Loder took his victory quietly.  "Good!" he said.  "Then it's
all straight sailing?"

"Except for the matter of the--the remuneration." Chilcote
hazarded the word uncertainly.

There was a faint pause, then Loder laughed brusquely.  "My
pay?"

The other was embarrassed.  "I didn't want to put it quite
like that."

"But that was what you thought.  Why are you never honest
--even with yourself?"

Chilcote drew his chair closer to the table.  He did not
attend to the other's remark, but his fingers strayed to his
waistcoat pocket and fumbled there.

Loder saw the gesture.  "Look here," he said, "you are
overtaxing yourself.  The affair of the pay isn't pressing;
we'll shelve it to another night.  You look tired out."

Chilcote lifted his eyes with a relieved glance.  "Thanks.  I
do feel a bit fagged.  If I may, I'll have that whiskey that I
refused last night."

"Why, certainly."  Loder rose at once and crossed to a
cupboard in the wall.  In silence he brought out whiskey,
glasses, and a siphon of soda-water.  "Say when!" he said,
lifting the whiskey.

"Now.  And I'll have plain water instead of soda, if it's all
the same."

"Oh, quite." Loder recrossed the room.  Instantly his back was
turned, Chilcote drew a couple of tabloids from his pocket and
dropped them into his glass.  As the other came slowly back he
laughed nervously.

"Thanks.  See to your own drink now; I can manage this."  He
took the jug unceremoniously, and, carefully guarding his
glass from the light, poured in the water with excited haste.

"What shall we drink to?" he said.

Loder methodically mixed his own drink and lifted the glass.
"Oh, to the career of John Chilcote!" he answered.

For an instant the other hesitated.  There was something
prophetic in the sound of the toast.  But he shook the feeling
off and held up his glass.

"To the career of John Chilcote!" he said, with another
unsteady laugh.


VII


It was a little less than three weeks since Chilcote and Loder
had drunk their toast, and again Loder was seated at his desk.

His head was bent and his hand moved carefully as he traced
line after line of meaningless words on a sheet of foolscap.
Having covered the page with writing, he rose, moved to the
centre-table, and compared his task with an open letter that
lay there.  The comparison seemed to please him; he
straightened his shoulders and threw back his head in an
attitude of critical satisfaction.  So absorbed was he that,
when a step sounded on the stairs outside, he did not notice
it, and only raised his head when the door was thrown open
unceremoniously.  Even then his interest was momentary.

"Hullo!" he said, his eyes returning to their scrutiny of his
task.

Chilcote shut the door and came hastily across the room.  He
looked ill and harassed.  As he reached Loder he put out his
hand nervously and touched his arm.

Loder looked up.  "What is it?" he asked.  "Any new
development?"

Chilcote tried to smile.  "Yes," he said, huskily; "it's
come."

Loder freed his arm.  "What?  The end of the world?"

"No.  The end of me."  The words came jerkily, the strain that
had enforced them showing in every syllable.

Still Loder was uncomprehending; he could not, or would not,
understand.

Again Chilcote caught and jerked at his sleeve.  "Don't you
see?  Can't you see?"

"No."

Chilcote dropped the sleeve and passed his handkerchief across
his forehead.  "It's come," he repeated.  "Don't you understand?
I want you."  He drew away, then stepped back again anxiously.
"I know I'm taking you unawares," he said.  "But it's not my
fault.  On my soul, it's not!  The thing seems to spring at me
and grip me--"  He stopped, sinking weakly into a chair.

For a moment Loder stood erect and immovable--then, almost
with reluctance, his glance turned to the figure beside him.

"You want me to take your place to-night--without preparation?"
His voice was distinct and firm, but it was free from contempt.

"Yes; yes, I do." Chilcote spoke without looking up.

"That you may spend the night in morphia--this and other
nights?"

Chilcote lifted a flushed, unsettled face.  "You have no right
to preach.  You accepted the bargain."

Loder raised his head quickly.  "I never--" he began; then
both his face and voice altered.  "You are quite right," he
said, coldly.  "You won't have to complain again."

Chilcote stirred uncomfortably.  "My dear chap," he said, "I
meant no offence.  It's merely--"

"Your nerves.  I know.  But come to business.  What am I to
do?"

Chilcote rose excitedly.  "Yes, business.  Let's come to
business.  It's rough on you, taking you short like this.  But
you have an erratic person to deal with.  I've had a horrible
day--a horrible day."  His face had paled again, and in the
green lamplight it possessed a grayish hue.  Involuntarily
Loder turned away.

Chilcote watched him as he passed to the desk and began
mechanically sorting papers.  "A horrible day!" he repeated.
"So bad that I daren't face the night.  You have read De
Quincey?" he asked, with a sudden change of tone.

"Yes."

"Then read him again and you'll understand.  I have all the
horrors--without any art.  I have no 'Ladies of Sorrow,' but I
have worse monsters than his 'crocodile'."  He laughed
unpleasantly.

Loder turned.  "Why in the devil's name--" he began; then
again he halted.  Something in Chilcote's drawn, excited face
checked him.  The strange sense of predestination that we
sometimes see in the eyes of another struck cold upon him,
chilling his last attempt at remonstrance.  "What do you want
me to do?" he substituted, in an ordinary voice.

The words steadied Chilcote.  He laughed a little.  The laugh
was still shaky, but it was pitched in a lower key.

"You--you're quite right to pull me up.  We have no time to
waste.  It must be one o'clock."  He pulled out his watch,
then walked to the window and stood looking down into the
shadowy court.  "How quiet you are here!" he said.  Then
abruptly anew thought struck him and he wheeled back into the
room.  "Loder," he said, quickly---"Loder, I have an idea!
While you are me, why shouldn't I be you?  Why shouldn't I be
John Loder instead of the vagrant we contemplated?  It covers
everything--it explains everything.  It's magnificent!  I'm
amazed we never thought of it before."

Loder was still beside the desk.  "I thought of it," he said,
without looking back.

"And didn't suggest it?"

"No."

"Why?"

Loder said nothing and the other colored.

"Jealous of your reputation?" he said, satirically.

"I have none to be jealous of."

Chilcote laughed disagreeably.  "Then you aren't so for gone
in philosophy as I thought.  You have a niche in your own good
opinion."

Again Loder was silent; then he smiled.  "You have an oddly
correct perception at times," he said.  "I suppose I have had
a lame sort of pride in keeping my name clean.  But pride like
that is out of fashion--and I've got to float with the tide."
He laughed, the short laugh that Chilcote had heard once or
twice before, and, crossing the room, he stood beside his
visitor.  "After all," he said, "what business have I with
pride, straight or lame?  Have my identity, if you want it.
When all defences have been broken down one barrier won't save
the town."  Laughing again, he laid his hand on the other's
arm.  "Come," he said, "give your orders.  I capitulate."

An hour later the two men passed from Loder's bed room, where
the final arrangements had been completed, back
into the sitting-room.  Loder came first, in faultless
evening-dress.  His hair was carefully brushed, the clothes he
wore fitted him perfectly.  To any glance, critical or casual,
he was the man who had mounted the stairs and entered the
rooms earlier in the evening.  Chilcote's manner of walking
and poise of the head seemed to have descended upon him with
Chilcote's clothes.  He came into the room hastily and passed
to the desk.

"I have no private papers," he said, "so I have nothing to
lock up.  Everything can stand as it is.  A woman named Robins
comes in the mornings to clean up and light the fire;
otherwise you must shift for yourself.  Nobody will disturb
you.  Quiet, dead quiet, is about the one thing you can count
on."

Chilcote, half halting in the doorway, made an attempt to
laugh.  Of the two, he was noticeably the more embarrassed.
In Loder's well-worn, well-brushed tweed suit he felt stranded
on his own personality, bereft for the moment of the familiar
accessories that helped to cloak deficiencies and keep the
wheel of conventionality comfortably rolling.  He stood
unpleasantly conscious of himself, unable to shape his
sensations even in thought.  He glanced at the fire, at the
table, finally at the chair on which he had thrown his
overcoat before entering the bedroom.  At the sight of the
coat his gaze brightened, the aimlessness forsook him, and he
gave an exclamation of relief.

"By Jove!" he said.  "I clean forgot."

"What?" Loder looked round.

"The rings."  He crossed to the coat and thrust his hand into
the pocket.  "The duplicates only arrived this afternoon.  The
nick of time, eh?"  He spoke fast, his fingers searching
busily.  Occupation of any kind came as a boon.

Loder slowly followed him, and as the box was brought to light
he leaned forward interestedly.

"As I told you, one is the copy of an old signet-ring, the
other a plain band--a plain gold band like a wedding-ring."
Chilcote laughed as he placed the four rings side by side on
his palm.  "I could think of nothing else that would be wide
--and not ostentatious.  You know how I detest display."

Loder touched the rings.  "You have good taste," he said.
"Let's see if they serve their purpose?"  He picked them up
and carried them to the lamp.

Chilcote followed him.  "That was an ugly wound," he said, his
curiosity reawakening as Loder extended his finger.  "How did
you come by it?"

The other smiled.  "It's a memento," he said.

"Of bravery?"

"No.  Quite the reverse."  He looked again at his hand, then
glanced back at Chilcote.  "No," he repeated, with an unusual
impulse of confidence.  "It serves to remind me that I am not
exempt--that I have been fooled like other men."

"That implies a woman?"

"Yes."  Again Loder looked at the scar on his finger.  "I
seldom recall the thing, it's so absolutely past.  But I
rather like to remember it to-night.  I rather want you to
know that I've been through the fire.  It's a sort of
guarantee."

Chilcote made a hasty gesture, but the other interrupted it.

"Oh, I know you trust me.  But you're giving me a risky post.
I want you to see that women are out of my line--quite out
of it."

"But, my dear chap--"

Loder went on without heeding.  "This thing happened eight
years ago at Santasalare," he said, "a little place between
Luna and Pistoria--a mere handful of houses wedged between two
hills.  A regular relic of old Italy crumbling away under
flowers and sunshine, with nothing to suggest the present
century except the occasional passing of a train round the
base of one of the hills.  I had literally stumbled upon the
place on a long tramp south from Switzerland, and had been
tempted into a stay at the little inn.  The night after my
arrival something unusual occurred.  There was an accident to
the train at the point where it skirted the village.

"There was a small excitement; all the inhabitants were
anxious to help, and I took my share.  As a matter of fact,
the smash was not disastrous; the passengers were hurt and
frightened, but nobody was killed."

He paused and looked at his companion, but, seeing him
interested, went on:

"Among these passengers was an English lady.  Of all concerned
in the business, she was the least upset.  When I came upon
her she was sitting on the shattered door of one of the
carriages, calmly rearranging her hat.  On seeing me she
looked up with the most charming smile imaginable.

"'I have just been waiting for somebody like you,' she said.
'My stupid maid has got herself smashed up somewhere in the
second-class carriages, and I have nobody to help me to find
my dog.'

"Of course, that first speech ought to have enlightened me,
but it didn't.  I only saw the smile and heard the voice; I
knew nothing of whether they were deep or shallow.  So I found
the maid and found the dog.  The first expressed gratitude;
the other didn't.  I extricated him with enormous difficulty
from the wreck of the luggage-van, and this was how he marked
his appreciation."  He held out his hand and nodded towards
the scar.

Chilcote glanced up.  "So that's the explanation?"

"Yes.  I tried to conceal the thing when I restored the dog,
but I was bleeding abominably and I failed.  Then the whole
business was changed.  It was I who needed seeing to, my new
friend insisted; I who should be looked after, and not she.
She forgot the dog in the newer interest of my wounded finger.
The maid, who was practically unhurt, was sent on to engage
rooms at the little inn, and she and I followed slowly.

"That walk impressed me.  There was an attractive mistiness of
atmosphere in the warm night, a sensation more than attractive
in being made much of by a woman of one's own class and
country after five years' wandering."  He laughed with a touch
of irony.  "But I won't take up your time with details.  You
know the progress of an ordinary love affair.  Throw in a few
more flowers and a little more sunshine than is usual, a man
who is practically a hermit and a woman who knows the world by
heart, and you have the whole thing.

"She insisted on staying in Santasalare for three days in
order to keep my finger bandaged; she ended by staying three
weeks in the hope of smashing up my life.

"On coming to the hotel she had given no name; and in our
first explanations to each other she led me to conclude her an
unmarried girl.  It was at the end of the three weeks that I
learned that she was not a free agent, as I had innocently
imagined, but possessed a husband whom she had left ill with
malaria at Florence or Rome.

"The news disconcerted me, and I took no pains to hide it.
After that the end came abruptly.  In her eyes I had become a
fool with middle-class principles; in my eyes--But there is no
need for that.  She left Santasalare the same night in a great
confusion of trunks and hat-boxes; and next morning I strapped
on my knapsack and turned my face to the south."

"And women don't count ever after?" Chilcote smiled, beguiled
out of himself.

Loder laughed.  "That's what I've been trying to convey.  Once
bitten, twice shy!"  He laughed again and slipped the two
rings over his finger with an air of finality.

"Now, shall I start?  This is the latch-key?"  He drew a key
from the pocket of Chilcote's evening-clothes.  "When I get to
Grosvenor Square I am to find your house, go straight in,
mount the stairs, and there on my right hand will be the door
of your--I mean my own--private rooms.  I think I've got it
all by heart.  I feel inspired; I feel that I can't go wrong."
He handed the two remaining rings to Chilcote and picked up
the overcoat.

"I'll stick on till I get a wire--," he said.  "Then I'll come
back and we'll reverse again."  He slipped on the coat and
moved back towards the table.  Now that the decisive moment
had come, it embarrassed him.

Scarcely knowing how to bring it to an end, he held out his
hand.

Chilcote took it, paling a little.  "'Twill be all right!" he
said, with a sudden return of nervousness.  "'Twill be all
right!  And I've made it plain about--about the remuneration?
A hundred a week--besides all expenses."

Loder smiled again.  "My pay?  Oh yes, you've made it clear as
day.  Shall we say good-night now?"

"Yes.  Good-night."

There was a strange, distant note in Chilcote's voice, but the
other did not pretend to hear it.  He pressed the hand he was
holding, though the cold dampness of it repelled him.

"Good-night," he said again.

"Good-night."

They stood for a moment, awkwardly looking at each other, then
Loder quietly disengaged his hand, crossed the room, and
passed through the door.

Chilcote, left standing alone in the middle of the room,
listened while the last sound of the other's footsteps was
audible on the uncarpeted stairs; then, with a furtive,
hurried gesture, he caught up the green-shaded lamp and passed
into Loder's bedroom.


VIII


To all men come portentous moments, difficult moments,
triumphant moments.  Loder had had his examples of all three,
but no moment in his career ever equalled in strangeness of
sensation that in which, dressed in another man's clothes, he
fitted the latchkey for the first time into the door of the
other man's house.

The act was quietly done.  The key fitted the lock smoothly
and his fingers turned it without hesitation, though his
heart, usually extremely steady, beat sharply for a second.
The hall loomed massive and sombre despite the modernity of
electric lights.  It was darkly and expensively decorated in
black and brown; a frieze of wrought bronze, representing
peacocks with outspread tails, ornamented the walls; the
banisters were of heavy iron-work, and the somewhat formidable
fireplace was of the same dark metal.

Loder looked about him, then advanced, his heart again beating
quickly as his hand touched the cold banister and he began his
ascent of the stairs.  But at each step his confidence
strengthened, his feet became more firm; until, at the head of
the stairs, as if to disprove his assurance, his pulses played
him false once more, this time to a more serious tune.  From
the farther end of a well-lighted corridor a maid was coming
straight in his direction.

For one short second all things seemed to whiz about him; the
certainty of detection overpowered his mind.  The indisputable
knowledge that he was John Loder and no other, despite all
armor of effrontery and dress, so dominated him that all other
considerations shrank before it.  It wanted but one word, one
simple word of denunciation, and the whole scheme was
shattered.  In the dismay of the moment, he almost wished that
the word might be spoken and the suspense ended.

But the maid came on in silence, and so incredible was the
silence that Loder moved onward, too.  He came within a yard
of her, and still she did not speak; then, as he passed her,
she drew back respectfully against the wall.

The strain, so astonishingly short, had been immense, but with
its slackening came a strong reaction.  The expected humiliation
seethed suddenly to a desire to dare fate.   Pausing quickly,
he turned and called the woman back.

The spot where he had halted was vividly bright, the ceiling
light being directly above his head; and as she came towards
him he raised his face deliberately and-waited.

She looked at him without surprise or interest.  "Yes, sir?"
she said.

"Is your mistress in?" he asked.  He could think of no other
question, but it served his purpose as a test of his voice.

Still the woman showed no surprise.  "She's not in sir," she
answered.  "But she's expected in half an hour."

"In half an hour?  All right!  That's all I wanted."  With a
movement of decision Loder walked back to the stair-head,
turned to the right, and opened the door of Chilcote's rooms.

The door opened on a short, wide passage; on one side stood
the study, on the other the bed, bath, and dressing-rooms.
With a blind sense of knowledge and unfamiliarity, bred of
much description on Chilcote's part, he put his hand on the
study door and, still exalted by the omen of his first
success, turned the handle.

Inside the room there was firelight and lamplight and a
studious air of peace.  The realization of this and a slow
incredulity at Chilcote's voluntary renunciation were his
first impressions; then his attention was needed for more
imminent things.

As he entered, the new secretary was returning a volume to its
place on the book-shelves.  At sight of him, he pushed it
hastily into position and turned round.

"I was making a few notes on the political position of
Khorasan," he said, glancing with slight apprehensiveness at
the other's face.  He was a small, shy man, with few social
attainments but an extraordinary amount of learning--the
antithesis of the alert Blessington, whom he had replaced.

Loder bore his scrutiny without flinching.  Indeed, it struck
him suddenly that there was a fund of interest, almost of
excitement, in the encountering of each new pair of eyes.  At
the thought he moved forward to the desk.

"Thank you, Greening," he said.  "A very useful bit of work."

The secretary glanced up, slightly puzzled.  His endurance had
been severely taxed in the fourteen days that he had filled
his new post.

"I'm glad you think so, sir," he said, hesitatingly.  "You
rather pooh-poohed the matter this morning, if you remember."

Loder was taking off his coat, but stopped in the operation.

"This morning?" he said.  "Oh, did I?  Did I?"  Then, struck
by the opportunity the words gave him, he turned towards the
secretary.  "You've got to get used to me, Greening," he said.
"You haven't quite grasped me yet, I can see.  I'm a man of
moods, you know.  Up to the present you've seen my slack side,
my jarred side, but I have quite another when I care to show
it.  I'm a sort of Jekyll-and-Hyde affair."  Again he laughed,
and Greening echoed the sound diffidently.  Chilcote had
evidently discouraged familiarity.

Loder eyed him with abrupt understanding.  He recognized the
loneliness in the anxious, conciliatory manner.

"You're tired," he said, kindly.  "Go to bed.  I've got some
thinking to do.  Good-night."  He held out his hand.

Greening took it, still half distrustful of this fresh side to
so complex a man.

"Good-night, sir," he said.  "To-morrow, if you approve, I
shall go on with my notes.  I hope you will have a restful
night."

For a second Loder's eyebrows went up, but he recovered
himself instantly.

"Ah, thanks, Greening," he said.  "Thanks.  I think your hope
will be fulfilled."

He watched the little secretary move softly and apologetically
to the door; then he walked to the fire, and, resting his
elbows on the mantel-piece, he took his face in his hands.

For a space he stood absolutely quiet, then his hands dropped
to his sides and he turned slowly round.  In that short space
he had balanced things and found his bearings.  The slight
nervousness shown in his brusque sentences and overconfident
manner faded out, and he faced facts steadily.

With the return of his calmness he took a long survey of the
room.  His glance brightened appreciatively as it travelled
from the walls lined with well-bound books to the lamps
modulated to the proper light; from the lamps to the desk
fitted with every requirement.  Nothing was lacking.  All he
had once possessed, all he had since dreamed of, was here, but
on a greater scale.  To enjoy the luxuries of life a man must
go long without them.  Loder had lived severely--so severely
that until three weeks ago he had believed bimself exempt from
the temptations of humanity.  Then the voice of the world had
spoken, and within him another voice had answered, with a tone
so clamorous and insistent that it had outcried his surprised
and incredulous wonder at its existence and its claims.  That
had been the voice of suppressed ambition; and now as he stood
in the new atmosphere a newer voice lifted itself.  The joy of
material things rose suddenly, overbalancing the last remnant
of the philosophy he had reared.  He saw all things in a fresh
light--the soft carpets, the soft lights, the numberless
pleasant, unnecessary things that color the passing landscape
and oil the wheels of life.  This was power--power made
manifest.  The choice bindings of one's books, the quiet
harmony of one's surroundings, the gratifying deference of
one's dependants--these were the visible, the outward signs,
the things he had forgotten.

Crossing the room slowly, he lifted and looked at the
different papers on the desk.  They had a substantial feeling,
an importance, an air of value.  They were like the solemn
keys to so many vexed problems.  Beside the papers were a heap
of letters neatly arranged and as yet unopened.  He turned
them over one by one.  They were all thick, and interesting to
look at.  He smiled as he recalled his own scanty mail:
envelopes long and bulky or narrow and thin--unwelcome
manuscripts or very welcome checks.  Having sorted the letters,
he hesitated.  It was his task to open them, but he had never
in his life opened an envelope addressed to another man.

He stood uncertain, weighing them in his hand.

Then all at once a look of attention and surprise crossed his
face, and he raised his head.  Some one had unmistakably
paused outside the door which Greening had left ajar.

There was a moment of apparent doubt, then a stir of skirts, a
quick, uncertain knock, and the intruder entered.

For a couple of seconds she stood in the doorway; then, as
Loder made no effort to speak, she moved into the room.  She
had apparently but just returned from some entertainment, for,
though she had drawn off her long gloves, she was still
wearing an evening cloak of lace and fur.

That she was Chilcote's wife Loder instinctively realized the
moment she entered the room.  But a disconcerting confusion of
ideas was all that followed the knowledge.  He stood by the
desk, silent and awkward, trying to fit his expectations to
his knowledge.  Then, faced by the hopelessness of the task,
he turned abruptly and looked at her again.

She had taken off her cloak and was standing by the fire.  The
compulsion of moving through life alone had set its seal upon
her in a certain self-possession, a certain confidence of
pose; yet her figure, as Loder then saw it, backgrounded by
the dark books and gowned in pale blue, had a suggestion of
youthfulness that seemed a contradiction.  The remembrance of
Chilcote's epithets "cold" and "unsympathetic" came back to
him with something like astonishment.  He felt no uncertainty,
no dread of discovery and humiliation in her presence as he
had felt in the maid's; yet there was something in her face
that made him infinitely more uncomfortable.  A look he could
find no name for--a friendliness that studiously covered
another feeling, whether question, distrust, or actual dislike
he could not say.  With a strange sensation of awkwardness he
sorted Chilcote's letters, waiting for her to speak.

As if divining his thought, she turned towards him.  "I'm
afraid I rather intrude," she said.  "If you are busy--"

His sense of courtesy was touched; he had begun life with a
high opinion of women, and the words shook up an echo of the
old sentiment.

"Don't think that," he said, hastily.  "I was only looking
through--my letters.  You mustn't rate yourself below
letters."  He was conscious that his tone was hurried, that
his words were a little jagged; but Eve did not appear to
notice.  Unlike Greening, she took the new manner without
surprise.  She had known Chilcote for six years.

"I dined with the Fraides to-night," she said.  "Mr. Fraide
sent you a message."

Unconsciously Loder smiled.  There was humor in the thought of
a message to him from the great Fraide.  To hide his amusement
he wheeled one of the big lounge-chairs forward.

"Indeed," he said.  "Won't you sit down?"

They were near together now, and he saw her face more fully.
Again he was taken aback.  Chilcote had spoken of her as
successful and intelligent, but never as beautiful.  Yet her
beauty was a rare and uncommon fact.  Her hair was black
--not a glossy black, but the dusky black that is softer than
any brown; her eyes were large and of a peculiarly pure blue;
and her eyelashes were black, beautifully curved and of
remarkable thickness.

"Won't you sit down?" he said again, cutting short his
thoughts with some confusion.

"Thank you."  She gravely accepted the proffered chair.  But
he saw that without any ostentation she drew her skirts aside
as she passed him.  The action displeased him unaccountably.

"Well," he said, shortly, "what had Fraide to say?"  He walked
to the mantel-piece with his customary movement and stood
watching her.  The instinct towards hiding his face had left
him.  Her instant and uninterested acceptance of him almost
nettled him; his own half-contemptuous impression of Chilcote
came to him unpleasantly, and with it the first desire to
assert his own individuality.  Stung by the conflicting
emotions, he felt in Chilcote's pockets for something to
smoke.

Eve saw and interpreted the action.  "Are these your cigarettes?"
She leaned towards a small table and took up a box made of
lizard-skin.

"Thanks."  He took the box from her, and as it passed from one
to the other he saw her glance at his rings.  The glance was
momentary; her lips parted to express question or surprise,
then closed again without comment.  More than any spoken words,
the incident showed him the gulf that separated husband and
wife.

"Well?" he said again, "what about Fraide?"

At his words she sat straighter and looked at him more
directly, as if bracing herself to a task.

"Mr. Fraide is--is as interested as ever in you," she began.

"Or in you?"  Loder made the interruption precisely as he felt
Chilcote would have made it.  Then instantly he wished the
words back.

Eve's warm skin colored more deeply; for a second the
inscrutable underlying expression that puzzled him showed in
her eyes, then she sank back into a corner of the chair.

"Why do you make such a point of sneering at my friends?" she
asked, quietly.  "I overlook it when you are nervous."  She
halted slightly on the word.  "But you are not nervous
tonight."

Loder, to his great humiliation, reddened.  Except for an
occasional outburst on the part of Mrs. Robins, his charwoman,
he had not merited a woman's displeasure for years.

"The sneer was unintentional," he said.

For the first time Eve showed a personal interest.  She looked
at him in a puzzled way.  "If your apology was meant," she
said, hesitatingly, "I should be glad to accept it."

Loder, uncertain of how to take the words, moved back to the
desk.  He carried an unlighted cigarette between his fingers.

There was an interval in which neither spoke.  Then, at last,
conscious of its awkwardness, Eve rose.  With one hand on the
back of her chair, she looked at him.

"Mr. Fraide thinks it's such a pity that"--she stopped to
choose her words--"that you should lose hold on things--lose
interest in things, as you are doing.  He has been thinking a
good deal about you in the last three weeks--ever since the
day of your--your illness in the House; and it seems to him,"
--again she broke off, watching Loder's averted head--"it
seems to him that if you made one real effort now, even now,
to shake off your restlessness, that your--your health might
improve.  He thinks that the present crisis would be"--she
hesitated--" would give you a tremendous opportunity.   Your
trade interests, bound up as they are with Persia, would
give any opinion you might hold a double weight."  Almost
unconsciously a touch of warmth crept into her words.

"Mr. Fraide talked very seriously about the beginning of your
career.  He said that if only the spirit of your first days
could come back--"  Her tone grew quicker, as though she
feared ridicule in Loder's silence.  "He asked me to use my
influence.  I know that I have little--none, perhaps--but I
couldn't tell him that, and so--so I promised."

"And have kept the promise?" Loder spoke at random.  Her
manner and her words had both affected him.  There was a
sensation of unreality in his brain.

"Yes," she answered.  "I always want to do--what I can."

As she spoke a sudden realization of the effort she was making
struck upon him, and with it his scorn of Chilcote rose in
renewed force.

"My intention--" he began, turning to her.  Then the futility
of any declaration silenced him.  "I shall think over what you
say," he added, after a minute's wait.  "I suppose I can't say
more than that."

Their eyes met and she smiled a little.

"I don't believe I expected as much," she said.  "I think I'll
go now.  You have been wonderfully patient."  Again she smiled
slightly, at the same time extending her hand.  The gesture
was quite friendly, but in Loder's eyes it held relief as well
as friendliness; and when their hands met he noticed that her
fingers barely brushed his.

He picked up her cloak and carried it across the room.  As he
held the door open, he laid it quietly across her arm.

"I'll think over what you've said," he repeated.

Again she glanced at him as if suspecting sarcasm then, partly
reassured, she paused.  "You will always despise your
opportunities, and I suppose I shall always envy them," she
said.  "That's the way with men and women.  Good-night!"  With
another faint smile she passed out into the corridor.

Loder waited until he heard the outer door close, then he
crossed the room thoughtfully and dropped into the chair that
she had vacated.  He sat for a time looking at the hand her
fingers had touched; then he lifted his head with a
characteristic movement.

"By Jove!" he said, aloud, "how cordially she detests tests
him!"


IX


Loder slept soundly and dreamlessly in Chilcote's canopied
bed.  To him the big room with its severe magnificence
suggested nothing of the gloom and solitude that it held in
its owner's eyes.  When she had done, I saw that she had abandoned
herself to her usual sorrow. Madam,' said I to her, it
is doubtless Ebn Thaher's removal that troubles you; but
suffer me to conjure you in the name of God, to alarm yourself
no farther on this account. We have found another Ebn
Thaher, who offers to oblige you with equal zeal; and, what is yet
more important, with greater courage.'

Then I spoke to her of you," continued the slave, "and
acquainted her with the motive which led you to the prince of
Persia's house. In short, I assured her that you would keep
inviolably the secret betwixt her and the prince of Persia,
and that you were resolved to favour their amour with all
your might.
She seemed to be much relieved by my discourse.

Ah! what obligations,' said she, are the prince of Persia
and I under to that honest man you speak of! I must be acquainted
with him and see him, that I may hear from his own mouth what you
tell me, and thank him for such unheard-of generosity towards persons
on whose account he is no way obliged to interest himself.

The sight of him will give me pleasure, and I shall
omit nothing to confirm him in those good sentiments. Fail
not to bring him to me to- morrow.' Therefore, sir, be so good
as to accompany me to the palace."
The confidant's proposal perplexed the jeweller. "Your mistress,"
replied he, "must allow me to say that she has not duly considered
what she requires of me. Ebn Thaher's access to the caliph
gave him admission every where; and the officers who knew him,
allowed him free access to Schemselnihar's palace; but as for me,
how dare I enter?

You see clearly that it is impossible.

I entreat you to represent to Schemselnihar the reasons which
prevent me from affording her that satisfaction; and acquaint her
with all the ill consequences that would attend my compliance. lf
she considered it ever so little, she would find that it would
expose me needlessly to very imminent danger."

The confidant endeavoured to encourage the jeweller. "Can
you believe," said she, "that Schemselnihar is so unreasonable
as to expose you to the least danger by bringing you to
her, from whom she expects such important services?

Consider with yourself that there is not the least appearance of
risk.

My mistress and I are too much interested in this affair to involve
you in any danger.

You may depend upon me, and leave yourself to my conduit.

After the thing is over you will be the first to confess
that your apprehensions were groundless."

The jeweller yielded to the confidant's assurances, and rose up to
follow her, but notwithstanding his boasted courage, he was seized
with such terror that his whole body trembled.

"In your present state," said she, "I perceive it will be better
for you to remain at home, and that Schemselnihar should take other
measures to see you.

It is not to be doubted but that to satisfy her desire she
will come hither herself: the case being so, sir, I
would not have you go: I am persuaded it will not be long ere
you see her here."

The confidant foresaw this; for she no sooner informed
Schemselnihar of the jeweller's fear, but she prepared to go to
his house.

He received her with all the expressions of profound respect.

When she sat down, being a little fatigued, she unveiled herself,
and exhibited to the jeweller such beauty as convinced him that the
prince of Persia was excusable in giving his heart to the caliph's
favourite.

Then she saluted the jeweller with a graceful air, and
said to him, "I could not hear with what zeal you have engaged
in the prince of Persia's concerns and mine, without immediately
determining to express my gratitude in person. I thank heaven
for having so soon made up to us the loss of Ebn Thaher."

Schemselnihar said many other obliging things to the
jeweller, after which she returned to her palace. The jeweller
went immediately to give an account of this visit to the
prince of Persia; who said to him, as soon as he saw him, "I
have expected you impatiently. The trusty slave has brought
me a letter from her mistress, but it does not relieve me.

Whatever the lovely Schemselnihar says, I dare not hope, and my
patience is exhausted; I know not now what measures to pursue;
Ebn Thaher's departure reduces me to despair. He was my only
support: in him I have lost every thing. I had flattered
myself with some hopes by reason of his access to Schemselnihar."

After these words, which the prince spoke with so much
eagerness, that he gave the jeweller no time to interrupt him, he
said to the prince, "No man can take more interest in your affliction
than I do; and if you will have patience to hear me you will perceive
that I can relieve you."

Upon this the prince became silent, and listened to him. "I see,"
said the jeweller, "that the only way to give you satisfaction is
to devise a plan that will afford you an opportunity of conversing
freely with Schemselnihar.

This I wish to procure you, and to-morrow will make the
attempt. You must by no means expose yourself to enter
Schemselnihar's palace; you know by experience the danger
of that step. I know a fitter place for this interview, where
you will be safe."

When the jeweller had finished, the prince embraced him with
transports of joy. "You revive," said he, "by this promise,
a wretched lover, who was condemned to die. You have
fully repaired the loss of Ebn Thaher; whatever you do will
be well performed; I leave myself entirely to your conduct."

After the prince had thus thanked him for his zeal, the jeweller
returned home, and next morning Schemselnihar's confidant
came to him. He told her that he had given the prince
of Persia hopes that he should shortly see her mistress. "I
am come on purpose," answered she, "to concert measures with you
for that end.

I think this house will be convenient enough for their interview."
"I could receive them very well here," replied he, "but I
think they will have more liberty in another house of
mine where no one resides at present; I will immediately furnish
it for their reception." "There remains nothing then for me
to do," replied the confidant, "but to bring Schemselnihar
to consent to this. I will go and speak to her, and return
speedily with an answer."
She was as diligent as her promise, and returning to the
jeweller, told him that her mistress would not fail to keep the
appointment in the evening.

In the mean time she gave him a purse, and told him it was
to prepare a collation. He carried her immediately to the
house where the lovers were to meet, that she might know whither
to bring her mistress: and when she was gone, he went to borrow
from his friends gold and silver plate, tapestry, rich
cushions, and other furniture, with which he furnished the
house very magnificently; and when he had put all things in
order, went to the prince of Persia.

You may easily conceive the prince of Persia's joy, when the
jeweller told him that he came to conduct him to the house he
had prepared to receive him and Schemselnihar. This
news made him forget all his former trouble. He put on a
magnificent robe, and went without his retinue along with the
jeweller; who led him through several by-streets that nobody might
observe them, and at last brought him to the house, where they
conversed together until Schemselnihar's arrival.

They did not wait long for this passionate lover.

She came after evening prayer, with her confidant, and two other
slaves. It is impossible to express the excess of joy
that seized these two lovers when they saw one another. They
sat down together upon a sofa, looking upon one another for
some time, without being able to speak, they were so much
overjoyed: but when their speech returned, they soon made up for
their silence.

They said to each other so many tender things, as made the
jeweller, the confidant, and the two other slaves weep. The
jeweller however restrained his tears, to attend the collation,
which he brought in himself.
The lovers ate and drank little, after which they sat down
again upon the sofa: Schemselnihar asked the jeweller if
he had a lute, or any other instrument, The jeweller, who
took care to provide all that could please her, brought her a
lute: she spent some time in tuning it, and then sung.

While Schemselnihar was charming the prince of Persia, and
expressing her passion by words composed extempore, a great noise
was heard; and immediately the slave, whom. the jeweller had brought
with him, came in great alarm to tell him that some people were
breaking in at the gate; that he asked who they were, but instead
of any answer the blows were redoubled.

The jeweller, being alarmed, left Schemselnihar and the prince
to inform himself of the truth of this intelligence. No sooner
had he got to the court, than he perceived, notwithstanding the
darkness of the night, a company of men armed with spears and
cimeters, who had broken the gate, and came directly towards him.

He stood close to a wall for fear of his life, and saw ten of
them pass without being perceived by them.
Finding he could give no great assistance to the prince of
Persia and Schemselnihar, he contented himself with lamenting
their fate, and fled for refuge to a neighbour's house, who
was not yet gone to bed. He did not doubt but this unexpected
violence was by the caliph's order, who, he thought, had
been informed of his favourite's meeting the prince of
Persia there. He heard a great noise in his house, which
continued till midnight: and when all was quiet, as he thought,
he desired his neighbour to lend him a cimeter; and being thus
armed, went on till he came to the gate of his own house: he entered
the court full of fear, and perceived a man, who asked him who he
was; he knew by his voice that it was his own slave.

"How did you manage," said he, "to avoid being taken by
the watch?" "Sir," answered the slave, "I hid myself in a
corner of the court, and I went out as soon as I heard the
noise.
But it was not the watch who broke into your house: they were
robbers, who within these few days robbed another house in this
neighbourhood.

They doubtless had notice of the rich furniture you brought
hither, and had that in view."
The jeweller thought his slave's conjecture probable enough.

He entered the house, and saw that the robbers had taken all
the furniture out of the apartment where he received Schemselnihar
and her lover, that they had also carried off the gold and silver
plate, and, in a word, had left nothing.

Perceiving this desolation, he exclaimed, "O heaven! I
am irrecoverably ruined!
What will my friends say, and what excuse can I make when I
shall tell them that the robbers have broken into my house, and
robbed me of all they had generously lent me?

I shall never be able to make up their loss. Besides, what
is become of Schemselnihar and the prince of Persia? This
business will be so public, that it will be impossible
but it must reach the caliph's ears. He will get notice of
this meeting, and I shall fall a sacrifice to his fury." The
slave, who was very much attached to him, endeavoured to comfort
him.

"As to Schemselnihar," said he, "the robbers would probably
consent themselves with stripping her, and you have reason to
think that she is retired to her palace with her slaves.
The prince of Persia too has probably escaped, so that
you have reason to hope the caliph will never know of this
adventure.

As for the loss your friends have sustained, that is a
misfortune that you could not avoid. They know very
well the robbers are numerous, that they have not only
pillaged the house I have already spoken of, but many other
houses of the principal noblemen of the court: and they are not
ignorant that, notwithstanding the orders given to apprehend them,
nobody has been yet able to seize any of them.

You will be acquitted by restoring your friends the value
of the things that are stolen, and, blessed be God, you will have
enough left."

While they were waiting for day-light, the jeweller ordered
the slave to mend the street door, which was broken, as
well as he could: after which he returned to his usual
residence with his slave, making melancholy reflections on what
had happened.

"Ebn Thaher," said he to himself, "has been wiser than I; he
foresaw the misfortune into which I have blindly thrown myself:
would to God I had never meddled in this intrigue, which will,
perhaps, cost me my life!"

It was scarcely day when the report of the robbery spread through
the city, and a great many of his friends and neighbours
came to his house to express their concern for his misfortune; but
were curious to know the particulars.

He thanked them for their affection, and had at least the
consolation, that he heard no one mention Schemselnihar. or
the prince of Persia: which made him believe they were at their
houses, or in some secure place.

When the jeweller was alone, his servants brought him something
to eat, but he had no appetite. About noon one of his slaves
came to tell him there was a man at the gate, whom he
knew not, that desired to speak with him.

The jeweller, not choosing to receive a stranger into his house,
rose up, and went to speak to him.

"Though you do not know me," said the man; "I know you,
and I am come to talk to you about an important affair."

The jeweller desired him to come in. "No," answered the
stranger "if you please, rather take the trouble to go
with me to your other house." "How know you," asked the jeweller,
"that I have another house?" "I know very well," answered
the stranger; "follow me, and do not fear any thing: I have
something to communicate which will please you." The jeweller
went immediately with him; and after he had considered by
the way how the house they were going to had been robbed, he said
to him that it was not fit to receive him.

When they were before the house, and the stranger saw the
gate half broken down, he said to the jeweller, "I see
you have told me the truth. I will conduct you to a place
where we shall be better accommodated." When he had thus
spoken, he went on, and walked all the rest of the day
without stopping.

The jeweller being fatigued with his walk, vexed to see night
approach, and that the stranger went on without telling him
where he was going, began to lose his patience, when they came
to a path which led to the Tigris. As soon as they reached the
river, they embarked in a little boat, and went over. The stranger
led the jeweller through a long street, where he had never been
before; and after he had brought him through several by-streets,
he stopped at a gate, which he opened.

He made the jeweller go in before him, he then shut and
bolted the gate, with a huge iron bolt, and conducted him to a
chamber, where there were ten other men, all of them as great
strangers to the jeweller as he who had brought him hither.

These ten men received him without much ceremony. They
desired him to sit down, of which he had great need; for
he was not only out of breath with walking so far, but his terror
at finding himself with people whom he thought he had reason to
fear would have disabled him from standing.

They waited for their leader to go to supper, and as soon
as he came it was served up.

They washed their hands, obliged the jeweller to do the like, and
to sit at table with them.

After supper the men asked him, if he knew whom he spoke to?
He answered, "No; and that he knew not the place he was in."

"Tell us your last night's adventure," said they to
him, "and conceal nothing from us."

The jeweller, being astonished at this request, answered,
"Gentlemen, it is probable you know it already." "That is
true," replied they; "the young man and the young lady, who were
at your house yesternight, told it us; but we would know it from
your own mouth."

The jeweller needed no more to inform him that he spoke to
the robbers who had broken into and plundered his house.
"Gentlemen," said he, "I am much troubled for that young man
and lady; can you give me any tidings of them?"

Upon the jeweller's inquiry of the thieves, if they knew
any thing of the young man and the young lady, they answered,
"Be not concerned for them, they are safe and well," so
saying, they shewed him two closets, where they assured him
they were separately shut up. They added, "We are informed
you alone know what relates to them, which we no sooner came
to understand, but we shewed them all imaginable respect, and
were so far from doing them any injury, that we treated them with
all possible kindness on your account.

We answer for the same," proceeded they, "for your own person, you
may put unlimited confidence in us."

The jeweller being encouraged by this assurance, and overjoyed
to hear that the prince of Persia and Schemselnihar were safe,
resolved to engage the robbers yet farther in their interest.

He commended them, flattered them, and gave them a thousand
benedictions.

"Gentlemen," said he, "I must confess I have not the honour to know
you, yet it is no small happiness to me that I am not wholly unknown
to you; and I can never be sufficiently grateful for the favours
which that knowledge has procured me at your hands.

Not to mention your great humanity, I am fully persuaded
now, that persons of your character are capable of keeping
a secret faithfully, and none are so fit to undertake a great
enterprise, which you can best bring to a good issue by your
zeal, courage, and intrepidity. Confiding in these qualities,
which are so much your due, I hesitate not to tell you my whole
history, with that of those two persons you found in my house, with
all the fidelity you desire me."

After the jeweller had thus secured, as he thought, the
confidence of the robbers, he made no scruple to relate
to them the whole amour of the prince of Persia and Schemselnihar,
from the beginning of it to the time he had received them
into his house.

The robbers were greatly astonished at all the particulars
they heard, and could not forbear exclaiming, "How! is it
possible that the young man should be the illustrious Ali Ebn
Becar, prince of Persia, and the young lady the fair and
celebrated beauty Schemselnihar?" The jeweller assured them
nothing was more certain, and that they need not think
it strange, that persons of so distinguished a character
should wish not to be known.

Upon this assurance of their quality, the robbers went
immediately, one after another, and threw themselves at their
feet, imploring their pardon, and protesting that nothing
of the kind would have happened to them, had they been informed
of the quality of their persons before they broke into the
house; and that they would by their future conduct endeavour
to make amends for the crime they had thus ignorantly
committed. Then turning to the jeweller, they told him,
they were heartily sorry they could not restore to him all
that had been taken from him, part of it being no longer
in their possession. but as for what remained, if he would
content himself with his plate, it should be forthwith put
into his hand.

The jeweller was overjoyed at the favour done him, and after
the robbers had delivered to him the plate, they required of
the prince, Schemselnihar, and him, to promise them upon oath,
that they would not betray them, and they would carry them
to a place whence they might easily return to their respective
homes.

The prince, Schemselnihar, and the jeweller, replied,
that they might rely on their words, but since they desired an
oath of them, they solemnly swore not to discover them. The
thieves, satisfied with this, immediately went out with
them.

On the way, the jeweller, uneasy at not seeing the confidant
and the two slaves, came up to Schemselnihar, and begged her
to inform him what was become of them. She answered, she knew
nothing of them, and that all she could tell him was, that she
was carried away from his house, ferried over the river, and
brought to the place from whence they were just come.

Schemselnihar and the jeweller had no farther conversation;
they let the robbers conduit them with the prince to the river's
side, when the robbers immediately took boat, and carried them
over to the opposite bank.

While the prince, Schemselnihar, and the jeweller were landing,
they heard the noise of the horse patrol coming towards them, just
as the boat had conveyed the robbers back.

The commander of the brigade demanded of the prince,
Schemselnihar, and the jeweller, who they were, and
whence they had come so late? Frightened as they were,
and apprehensive of saying any thing that might prejudice them,
they could not speak; but at length it was necessary they should.
The jeweller's mind being most at ease, he said, "Sir, I can
assure you, we are respectable people of the city. The
persons who have just landed us, and are now returned
to the other side of the water, are thieves, who having
last night broke open the house where we were, pillaged it,
and afterwards carried us to their quarters, whence by
fair words, we prevailed on them to let us have our liberty; and
they brought us hither.

They have restored us part of the booty they had taken from
us." At which words he shewed the parcel of plate he had
recovered.

The commander, not satisfied with what the jeweller had told
him, came up to him and the prince of Persia, and looking steadfastly
at them, said, "Tell me truly, who is this lady?

How came you to know her?"
These questions embarrassed them so much that neither
of them could answer; till at length Schemselnihar extricated them
from their difficulty, and taking the commander aside, told him who
she was; which he no sooner heard, than he alighted with expressions
of great respect and politeness, and ordered his men to bring two
boats.

When the boats were come, he put Schemselnihar into one, and
the prince of Persia and the jeweller into the other, with two
of his people in each boat; with orders to accompany each
of them whithersoever they were bound. The boats took different
routes, but we shall at present speak only of that which
contained the prince and the jeweller.

The prince, to save his guides trouble, bade them land
the jeweller at his house, naming the place. The guide,
by this direction, stopped just before the caliph's palace, which
put both him and the jeweller into great alarm; for although they
had heard the commander's orders to his men, they could not help
imagining they were to be delivered up to the guard, to be brought
before the caliph next morning.

This nevertheless was not the intention of the guides. For
after they had landed them, they, by their master's command,
recommended them to an officer of the caliph's guard who assigned
them two soldiers to conduct them by land to the prince's house,
which was at some distance from the river.

They arrived there, but so tired and weary that they could
hardly move.

The prince being come home, with the fatigue of his journey,
and this misadventure to himself and Schemselnihar, which
deprived him of all hope of ever seeing her more, fell into a swoon
on his sofa.

While the greatest part of his servants were endeavoring to
recover him, the rest gathered about the jeweller, and begged
him to tell them what had happened to the prince their lord,
whose absence had occasioned them such inexpressible uneasiness.

While the greatest part of the prince's domestics were
endeavouring to recover him from his swoon, others of them
got about the jeweller, desiring to know what had happened
to their lord. The jeweller, who took care to discover nothing
that was not proper for them to know, told them that it was
an extraordinary case, but that it was not a time to relate
it, and that they would do better to go and assist the
prince. By good fortune the prince came to himself that moment,
and those that but just before required his history with so
much earnestness retreated to a respectful distance.

Although the prince had in some measure recovered his recollection,
he continued so weak that he could not open his mouth to speak.

He answered only by signs, even to his nearest relations,
when they spoke to him. He remained in this condition
till next morning, when the jeweller came to take leave of
him.
He could answer only by a movement of his eyes, and holding out
his right hand; but when he saw he was laden with a bundle
of plate, which the thieves had returned to him, he made a sign
to his servants that they should take it and carry it to his
house.

The jeweller had been expected with great impatience by
his family the day he departed with the stranger; but now
he was quite given over, and it was no longer doubted but
some disaster had befallen him. His wife, children, and servants,
were in the greatest alarm, and lamenting him.
I wanted
nothing so much as to be like Lady Sarah--married to a great man."
She paused, then went on more hurriedly: "For a while things went
right; then slowly things, went wrong.  You got your--your nerves."

Loder changed his position with something of abruptness.

She misconstrued the action.

"Please don't think I want to be disagreeable," she said,
hastily.  "I don't.  I'm only trying to make you understand
why--why I lost heart."

"I think I know," Loder's voice broke in involuntarily.
"Things got worse--then still worse.  You found interference
useless.  At last you ceased to have a husband."

"Until a week ago." She glanced up quickly.  Absorbed in her
own feelings, she had seen nothing extraordinary in his words.

But at hers, Loder changed color.

"It's the most incredible thing in the world," she said.
"It's quite incredible, and yet I can't deny it.  Against all
my reason, all my experience, all my inclination I seem to
feel in the last week something of what I felt at first." She
stopped with an embarrassed laugh.  "It seems that, as if by
magic, life has been picked up where I dropped it six years
ago."  Again she stopped and laughed.

Loder was keenly uncomfortable, but he could think of nothing
to say.

"It seemed to begin that night I dined with the Fraides," she
went on.  "Mr. Fraide talked so wisely and so kindly about
many things.  He recalled all we had hoped for in you; and
--and he blamed me a little."  She paused and laid her cup
aside.  "He said that when people have made what they call
their last effort, they should always make just one effort
more.  He promised that if I could once persuade you to take
an interest in your work, he would do the rest.  He said all
that, and a thousand other kinder things--and I sat and
listened.  But all the time I thought of nothing but their
uselessness.  Before I left I promised to do my best
--but my thought was still the same.  It was stronger than
ever when I forced myself to come up here--"  She paused
again, and glanced at Loder's averted head.  "But I came, and
then--as if by conquering myself I had compelled a reward, you
seemed--you somehow seemed different.  It sounds ridiculous, I
know."  Her voice was half amused, half deprecating.  "It
wasn't a difference in your face, though I knew directly that
you were free from--nerves."  Again she hesitated over the
word.  "It was a difference in yourself, in the things you
said, more than in the way you said them."  Once more she
paused and laughed a little.

Loder's discomfort grew.

"But it didn't affect me then."  She spoke more slowly.  "I
wouldn't admit it then.  And the next day when we talked on
the Terrace I still refused to admit it--though I felt it more
strongly than before.  But I have watched you since that day,
and I know there is a change.  Mr. Fraide feels the same, and
he is never mistaken.  I know it's only nine or ten days, but
I've hardly seen you in the same mood for nine or ten hours in
the last three years."  She stopped, and the silence was
expressive.  It seemed to plead for confirmation of her
instinct.

Still Loder could find no response.

After waiting for a moment, she leaned forward in her chair
and looked up at him.

"John," she said, "is it going to last?  That's what I came to
ask.  I don't want to believe till I'm sure; I don't want to
risk a new disappointment."  Loder felt the earnestness of her
gaze, though he avoided meeting it.

"I couldn't have said this to you a week ago, but to-day I
can.  I don't pretend to explain why--the feeling is too
inexplicable.  I only know that I can say it now, and that I
couldn't a week ago.  Will you understand--and answer?"

Still Loder remained mute.  His position was horribly
incongruous.  What could he say?  What dared he say?

Confused by his silence, Eve rose.

"If it's only a phase, don't try to hide it," she said.  "But
if it's going to last--if by any possibility it's going to
last--"  She hesitated and looked up.

She was quite close to him.  He would have been less than man
had he been unconscious of the subtle contact of her glance,
the nearness of her presence--and no one had ever hinted that
manhood was lacking in him.  It was a moment of temptation.
His own energy, his own intentions, seemed so near; Chilcote
and Chilcote's claims so distant and unreal.  After all, his
life, his ambitions, his determinations, were his own.  He
lifted his eyes and looked at her.

"You want me to tell you that I will go on?" he said.

Her eyes brightened; she took a step forward.  "Yes," she
said, "I want it more than anything in the world."

There was a wait.  The declaration that would satisfy her came
to Loder's lips, but he delayed it.  The delay, was fateful.
While he stood silent the door opened and the servant who had
brought in the tea reappeared.

He crossed the room and handed Loder a telegram.  "Any answer,
sir?" he said.

Eve moved back to her chair.  There was a flush on her cheeks
and her eyes were still alertly bright.

Loder tore the telegram open, read it, then threw it Into the
fire.

"No answer!" he said, laconically.

At the brusqueness of his voice, Eve looked up.  "Disagreeable
news?" she said, as the servant departed.

He didn't look at her.  He was watching the telegram withering
in the centre of the fire.

"No," he said at last, in a strained voice.  "No.  Only news
that I--that I had forgotten to expect."


XI


There was a silence--an uneasy break--after Loder spoke.  The
episode of the telegram was, to all appearances, ordinary
enough, calling forth Eve's question and his own reply as a
natural sequence; yet in the pause that followed it each was
conscious of a jar, each was aware that in some subtle way the
thread of sympathy had been dropped, though to one the cause
was inexplicable and to the other only too plain.

Loder watched the ghost of his message grow whiter and
thinner, then dissolve into airy fragments and flutter up the
chimney.  As the last morsel wavered out of sight, he turned
and looked at his companion.

"You almost made me commit myself," he said.  In the desire to
hide his feelings his tone was short.

Eve returned his glance with a quiet regard, but he scarcely
saw it.  He had a stupefied sense of disaster; a feeling of
bitter self-commiseration that for the moment outweighed all
other considerations.  Almost at the moment of justification
the good of life had crumbled in his fingers, the soil given
beneath his feet, and with an absence of logic, a lack of
justice unusual in him, he let resentment against Chilcote
sweep suddenly over his mind.

Eve, still watching him, saw the darkening of his expression,
and with a quiet movement rose from her chair.

"Lady Sarah has a theatre-party to-night, and I am dining with
her," she said.  "It is an early dinner, so I must think about
dressing.  I'm sorry you think I tried to draw you into
anything.  I must have explained myself badly."  She laughed a
little, to cover the slight discomfiture that her tone
betrayed, and as she laughed she moved across the room towards
the door.

Loder, engrossed in the check to his own schemes, incensed at
the suddenness of Chilcote's recall, and still more incensed
at his own folly in not having anticipated it, was oblivious
for the moment of both her movement and her words.  Then,
quite abruptly, they obtruded themselves upon him, breaking
through his egotism with something of the sharpness of pain
following a blow.  Turning quickly from the fireplace, he
faced the shadowy room across which she had passed, but
simultaneously with his turning she gained the door.

The knowledge that she was gone struck him with a sense of
double loss.  "Wait!" he called, suddenly moving forward.  But
almost at once he paused, chilled by the solitude of the room.

"Eve!" he said, using her name unconsciously for the first
time.

But the corridor, as well as the room, was empty; he was too
late.  He stood irresolute; then he laughed shortly, turned,
and passed back towards the fireplace.

The blow had fallen, the inevitable come to pass, and nothing
remained but to take the fact with as good a grace as
possible.  Chilcote's telegram had summoned him to Clifford's
Inn at seven o'clock, and it was now well on towards six.  He
pulled out his watch--Chilcote's watch he realized, with a
touch of grim humor as he stooped to examine the dial by the
light of the fire; then, as if the humor had verged to another
feeling, he stood straight again and felt for the electric
button in the wall.  His fingers touched it, and
simultaneously the room was lighted.

The abrupt alteration from shadow to light came almost as a
shock.  The feminine arrangement of the tea-table seemed
incongruous beside the sober books and the desk laden with
papers--incongruous as his own presence in the place.  The
thought was unpleasant, and he turned aside as if to avoid it;
but at the movement his eyes fell on Chilcote's cigarette-box
with its gleaming monogram, and the whimsical suggestion of
his first morning rose again.  The idea that the inanimate
objects in the room knew him for what he was--recognized the
interloper where human eyes saw the rightful possessor--returned
to his mind.  Through all his disgust and chagrin a smile forced
itself to his lips, and, crossing the room for the second time,
he passed into Chilcote's bedroom.

There the massive furniture and sombre atmosphere fitted
better with his mood than the energy and action which the
study always suggested.  Walking directly to the great bed, he
sat on its side and for several minutes stared straight in
front of him, apparently seeing nothing; then at last the
apathy passed from him, as his previous anger against Chilcote
had passed.  He stood up slowly, drawing his long limbs
together, and recrossed the room, passing along the corridor
and through the door communicating with the rest of the house.
Five minutes later he was in the open air and walking steadily
eastward, his hat drawn forward and his overcoat buttoned up.

As he traversed the streets he allowed himself no thought,
Once, as he waited in Trafalgar Square to find a passage
between the vehicles, the remembrance of Chilcote's voice
coming out of the fog on their first night made itself
prominent, but he rejected it quickly, guarding himself from
even an involuntary glance at the place of their meeting.  The
Strand, with its unceasing life, came to him as something
almost unfamiliar.  Since his identification with the new life
no business had drawn him east of Charing Cross, and his first
sight of the narrower stream of traffic struck him as garish
and unpleasant.  As the impression came he accelerated his
steps, moved by the wish to make regret and retrospection
alike impossible by a contact with actual forces.

Still walking hastily, he entered Clifford's Inn, but there
almost unconsciously his feet halted.  There was something in
the quiet immutability of the place that sobered energy, both
mental and physical.  A sense of changelessness--the
changelessness of inanimate things, that rises in such solemn
contrast to the variableness of mere human nature, which a new
environment, a new outlook, sometimes even a new presence, has
power to upheave and remould.  He paused; then with slower and
steadier steps crossed the little court and mounted the
familiar stairs of his own house.

As he turned the handle of his own door some one stirred
inside the sitting-room.  Still under the influence of the
stones and trees that he had just left, he moved directly
towards the sound, and, without waiting for permission,
entered the room.  After the darkness of the passage it seemed
well alight, for, besides the lamp with its green shade, a
large fire burned in the grate and helped to dispel the
shadows.

As he entered the room Chilcote rose and came forward, his
figure thrown into strong relief by the double light.  He was
dressed in a shabby tweed suit; his face looked pale and set
with a slightly nervous tension, but besides the look and a
certain added restlessness of glance there was no visible
change.  Reaching Loder, he held out his hand.

"Well?" he said, quickly.

The other looked at him questioningly.

"Well?  Well?  How has it gone?"

"The scheme?  Oh, excellently!"  Loder's manner was abrupt.
Turning from the restless curiosity in Chilcote's eyes, he
moved a little way across the room and began to draw off his
coat.  Then, as if struck by the incivility of the action, he
looked back again.  "The scheme has gone extraordinarily," he
said.  "I could almost say absurdly.  There are some things,
Chilcote, that fairly bowl a man over."

A great relief tinged Chilcote's face.  "Good!" he exclaimed.
"Tell me all about it."

But Loder was reticent.  The moment was not propitious.  It
was as if a hungry man had dreamed a great banquet and had
awakened to his starvation.  He was chary of imparting his
visions.

"There's nothing to tell," he said, shortly.  "All that you'll
want to know is here in black and white.  I don't think you'll
find I have slipped anything; it's a clear business record."
From an inner pocket he drew out a bulky note-book, and,
recrossing the room, laid it open on the table.  It was a
correct, even a minute, record of every action that had been
accomplished in Chilcote's name.  "I don't think you'll find
any loose ends," he said, as he turned back the pages.  "I had
you and your position in my mind all through."  He paused and
glanced up from the book.  "You have a position that
absolutely insists upon attention," he added, in a different
voice.

At the new tone Chilcote looked up as well.  "No moral
lectures!" he said, with a nervous laugh.  "I was anxious to
know if you had pulled it off--and you have reassured me.
That's enough.  I was in a funk this afternoon to know how
things were going-one of those sudden, unreasonable funks.
But now that I see you"--he cut himself short and laughed once
more "now that I see you, I'm hanged if I don't want to--to
prolong your engagement."

Loder glanced at him, then glanced away.  He felt a quick
shame at the eagerness that rose at the words--a surprised
contempt at his own readiness to anticipate the man's
weakness.  But almost as speedily as he had turned away he
looked back again.

"Tush, man!" he said, with his old, intolerant manner.
"You're dreaming.  You've had your holiday and school's begun
again.  You must remember you are dining with the Charringtons
to-night.  Young Charrington's coming of age--quite a big
business.  Come along!  I want my clothes."  He laughed, and,
moving closer to Chilcote, slapped him on the shoulder.

Chilcote started; then, suddenly becoming imbued with the
other's manner, he echoed the laugh.

"By Jove!" he said, "you're right!  You're quite right!  A man
must keep his feet in their own groove."  Raising his hand, he
began to fumble with his tie.

But Loder kept the same position.  "You'll find the
check-book in its usual drawer," he said. "I've made one entry
of a hundred pounds--pay for the first week.  The rest can
stand over until--"  He paused abruptly.

Chilcote shifted his position.  "Don't talk about that.  It
upsets me to anticipate.  I can make out a check to-morrow
payable to John Loder."

"No.  That can wait.  The name of Loder is better out of the
book.  We can't be too careful."  Loder spoke with unusual
impetuosity.  Already a slight, unreasonable jealousy was
coloring his thoughts.  Already he grudged the idea of
Chilcote with his unstable glance and restless fingers opening
the drawers and sorting the papers that for one stupendous
fortnight had been his without question.  Turning aside, he
changed the subject brusquely.

"Come into the bedroom," he said.  "It's half-past seven if
it's a minute, and the Charringtons' show is at nine." Without
waiting for a reply, he walked across the room and held the
door open.

There was no silence while they exchanged clothes.  Loder
talked continuously, sometimes in short, curt sentences,
sometimes with ironic touches of humor; he talked until
Chilcote, strangely affected by contact with another
personality after his weeks of solitude, fell under his
influence--his excitement rising, his imagination stirring at
the novelty of change.  At last, garbed once more in the
clothes of his own world, he passed from the bedroom back into
the sitting-room, and there halted, waiting for his companion.

Almost directly Loder followed.  He came into the room
quietly, and, moving at once to the table, picked up the
note-book.

"I'm not going to preach," he began, "so you needn't shut me
up.  But I'll say just one thing--a thing that will get said.
Try and keep your hold!  Remember your responsibilities--and
keep your hold!"  He spoke energetically, looking earnestly
into Chilcote's eyes.  He did not realize it, but he was
pleading for his own career.

Chilcote paled a little, as he always did in face of a
reality.  Then he extended his hand.

"My dear fellow," he said, with a touch of hauteur, "a man can
generally be trusted to look after his own life."

Extricating his hand almost immediately, he turned towards the
door and without a word of farewell passed into the little
hall, leaving Loder alone in the sitting-room.


XII


On the night of Chilcote's return to his own, Loder tasted the
lees of life poignantly for the first time.  Before their
curious compact had been entered upon he had been, if not
content, at least apathetic; but with action the apathy had
been dispersed, never again to regain its old position.

He realized with bitter certainty that his was no real
home-coming.  On entering Chilcote's house he had experienced
none of the unfamiliarity, none of the unsettled awkwardness,
that assailed him now.  There he had almost seemed the exile
returning after many hardships; here, in the atmosphere made
common by years, he felt an alien.  It was illustrative of the
man's character that sentimentalities found no place in his
nature.  Sentiments were not lacking, though they lay out of
sight, but sentimentalities he altogether denied.

Left alone in the sitting-room after Chilcote's departure,
his first sensation was one of physical discomfort and
unfamiliarity.  His own clothes, with their worn looseness,
brought no sense of friendliness such as some men find in an
old garment.  Lounging, and the clothes that suggested
lounging, had no appeal for him.  In his eyes the garb that
implies responsibility was symbolic and even inspiring.

And, as with clothes, so with his actual surroundings.  Each
detail of his room was familiar, but not one had ever become
intimately close.  He had used the place for years, but he had
used it as he might use a hotel; and whatever of his household
gods had come with him remained, like himself, on sufferance.
His entrance into Chilcote's surroundings had been altogether
different.  Unknown to himself, he had been in the position of
a young artist who, having roughly modelled in clay, is
brought into the studio of a sculptor.  To his outward vision
everything is new, but his inner sight leaps to instant
understanding.  Amid all the strangeness he recognizes the one
essential--the workshop, the atmosphere, the home.

On this first night of return Loder comprehended something of
his position; and, comprehending, he faced the problem and
fought with it.

He had made his bargain and must pay his share.  Weighing
this, he had looked about his room with a quiet gaze.  Then at
last, as if finding the object really sought for, his eyes had
come round to the mantel-piece and rested on the pipe-rack.
The pipes stood precisely as he had left them.  He had looked
at them for a long time, then an ironic expression that was
almost a smile had touched his lips, and, crossing the room,
he had taken the oldest and blackest from its place and slowly
filled it with tobacco.

With the first indrawn breath of smoke his attitude had
unbent.  Without conscious determination, he had chosen the
one factor capable of easing his mood.  A cigarette is for the
trivial moments of life; a cigar for its fulfilments, its
pleasant, comfortable retrospections; but in real distress--in
the solving of question, the fighting of difficulty--a pipe is
man's eternal solace,

So he had passed the first night of his return to the
actualities of life.  Next day his mind was somewhat settled
and outward aid was not so essential; but though facts faced
him more solidly, they were nevertheless very drab in shade.
The necessity for work, that blessed antidote to ennui, no
longer forced him to endeavor.  He was no longer penniless;
but the money, he possessed brought with it no desires.  When
a man has lived from hand to mouth for years, and suddenly
finds himself with a hundred pounds in his pocket, the result
is sometimes curious.  He finds with a vague sense of surprise
that he has forgotten how to spend.  That extravagance, like
other artificial passions, requires cultivation.

This he realized even more fully on the days that followed
the night of his first return; and with it was born a new
bitterness.  The man who has friends and no money may find
life difficult; but the man who has money and no friend to
rejoice in his fortune or benefit by his generosity is aloof
indeed.  With the leaven of incredulity that works in all
strong natures, Loder distrusted the professional beggar
--therefore the charity that bestows easily and promiscuously
was denied him; and of other channels of generosity he was
too self-contained to have learned the secret.

When depression falls upon a man of usually even temperament
it descends with a double weight.  The mercurial nature has a
hundred counterbalancing devices to rid itself of gloom--a
sudden lifting of spirit, a memory of other moods lived
through, other blacknesses dispersed by time; but the man of
level nature has none of these.  Depression, when it comes, is
indeed depression; no phase of mind to be superseded by another
phase, but a slackening of all the chords of life.

It was through such a depression as this that he labored
during three weeks, while no summons and no hint of
remembrance came from Chilcote.  His position was peculiarly
difficult.  He found no action in the present, and towards the
future he dared not trust himself to look.  He had slipped the
old moorings that familiarity had rendered endurable; but
having slipped them, he had found no substitute.  Such was his
case on the last night of the three weeks, and such his frame
of mind as he crossed Fleet Street from Clifford's Inn to
Middle Temple Lane.

It was scarcely seven o'clock, but already the dusk was
falling; the greater press of vehicles had ceased, and the
light of the street lamps gleamed back from the spaces of dry
and polished roadway, worn smooth as a mirror by wheels and
hoofs.  Something of the solitude of night that sits so ill on
the strenuous city street was making itself felt, though the
throngs of people on the pathway still streamed eastward and
westward and the taverns made a busy trade.

Having crossed the roadway, Loder paused for a moment to
survey the scene.  But humanity in the abstract made small
appeal to him, and his glance wandered from the passers-by to
the buildings massed like clouds against the dark sky.  As his
gaze moved slowly from one to the other a clock near at hand
struck seven, and an instant later the chorus was taken up by
a dozen clamorous tongues.  Usually he scarcely heard, and
never heeded, these innumerable chimes; but this evening their
effect was strange.  Coming out of the darkness, they seemed
to possess a personal note, a human declaration.  The
impression was fantastic, but it was strong; with a species of
revolt against life and his own personality, he turned slowly
and moved forward in the direction of Ludgate Hill.

For a space he continued his course, then, reaching Bouverie
Street, he turned sharply to the right and made his way down
the slight incline that leads to the Embankment.  There he
paused and drew a long breath.  The sense of space and
darkness soothed him.  Pulling his cap over his eyes, he
crossed to the river and walked on in the direction of
Westminster Bridge.

As he walked the great mass, of water by his side looked dense
and smooth as oil with its sweeping width and network of
reflected light.  On its farther bank rose the tall buildings,
the chimneys, the flaring lights that suggest another and an
alien London; close at hand stretched the solid stone parapet,
giving assurance of protection.

All these things he saw with his mental eyes, but with his
mental eyes only, for his physical gaze was fixed ahead where
the Houses of Parliament loomed out of the dusk.  From the
great building his eyes never wavered until the Embankment was
traversed and Westminster Bridge reached.  Then he paused,
resting his arms on the coping of the bridge.

In the tense quietude of the darkness the place looked vast
and inspiring.  The shadowy Terrace, the silent river, the
rows of lighted windows, each was significant.  Slowly and
comprehensively his glance passed from one to the other.  He
was no sentimentalist and no dreamer; his act was simply the
act of a man whose interests, robbed of their natural outlet,
turn instinctively towards the forms and symbols of the work
that is denied them.  His scrutiny was steady--even cold.  He
was raised to no exaltation by the vastness of the building,
nor was he chilled by any dwarfing of himself.  He looked at
it long and thoughtfully; then, again moving slowly, he
turned and retraced his steps.

His mind was full as he walked back, still oblivious of the
stone parapet of the Embankment, the bare trees, and the
flaring lights of the advertisements across the water.
Turning to the left, he regained Fleet Street and made for
his own habitation with the quiet accuracy that some men
exhibit in moments of absorption.

He crossed Clifford's Inn with the same slow, almost listless
step; then, as his own doorway came into view, he stopped.
Some one was standing in its recess.

For a moment he wondered if his fancy were playing him a
trick; then his reason sprang to certainty with so fierce a
leap that for an instant his mind recoiled.  For we more often
stand aghast at the strength of our own feelings than before
the enormity of our neighbor's actions.

"Is that you, Chilcote?" he said, below his breath.

At the sound of his voice the other wheeled round.  "Hallo!"
he said.  "I thought you were the ghost of some old
inhabitant.  I suppose I am very unexpected?"

Loder took the hand that he extended and pressed the fingers
unconsciously.  The sight of this man was like the finding of
an oasis at the point where the desert is sandiest, deadliest,
most unbearable.

"Yes, you are--unexpected," he answered.

Chilcote looked at him, then looked out into the court.  "I'm
done up," he said.  "I'm right at the end of the tether."  He
laughed as he said it, but in the dim light of the hall Loder
thought his face looked ill and harassed despite the flush
that the excitement of the meeting had brought to it.  Taking
his arm, he drew him towards the stairs.

"So the rope has run out, eh?" he said, in imitation of the
other's tone.  But under the quiet of his manner his own nerves
were throbbing with the peculiar alertness of anticipation; a
sudden sense of mastery over life, that lifted him above
surroundings and above persons--a sense of stature, mental and
physical, from which he surveyed the world.  He felt as if fate,
in the moment of utter darkness, had given him a sign.

As they crossed the hall, Chilcote had drawn away and was
already mounting the stairs.  And as Loder followed, it
came sharply to his mind that here, in the slipshod
freedom of a door that was always open and stairs that
were innocent of covering, lay his companion's panion's
real niche--unrecognized in outward avowal, but acknowledged
by the inward, keener sense that manifests the individual.

In silence they mounted the stairs, but on the first landing
Chilcote paused and looked back, surveying Loder from the
superior height of two steps.

"I did very well at first," he said.  "I did very well--I
almost followed your example, for a week or so.  I found
myself on a sort of pinnacle--and I clung on.  But in the last
ten days I've--I've rather lapsed."

"Why?"  Loder avoided looking at his face; he kept his eyes
fixed determinately on the spot where his own hand gripped the
banister.

"Why?" Chilcote repeated.  "Oh, the prehistoric tale--weakness
stronger than strength.  I'm-I'm sorry to come down on you like
this, but it's the social side that bowls me over.  It's the
social side I can't stick."

"The social side?  But I thought--"

"Don't think.  I never think; it entails such a constant
upsetting of principles and theories.  We did arrange for
business only, but one can't set up barriers.  Society pushes
itself everywhere nowadays--into business most of all.  I
don't want you for theatre-parties or dinners.  But a big
reception with a political flavor is different.  A man has to
be seen at these things; he needn't say anything or do
anything, but it's bad form if he fails to show up."

Loder raised his head.  "You must explain," he said, abruptly.

Chilcote started slightly at the sudden demand.

"I--I suppose I'm rather irrelevant," he said, quickly.  "Fact
is, there's a reception at the Bramfells' to-night.  You know
Blanche Bramfell--Viscountess Bramfell, sister to Lillian
Astrupp."  His words conveyed nothing to Loder, but he did not
consider that.  All explanations were irksome to him and he
invariably chafed to be done with them.

"And you've got to put in an appearance--for party reasons?"
Loder broke in.

Chilcote showed relief.  "Yes.  Old Fraide makes rather a
point of it--so does Eve."  He said the last words carelessly;
then, as if their sound recalled something, his expression
changed.  A touch of satirical amusement touched his lips and
he laughed.

"By-the-way, Loder," he said, "my wife was actually tolerant
of me for nine or ten days after my return.  I thought your
representation was to be quite impersonal?  I'm not jealous,"
he laughed.  "I'm not jealous, I assure you; but the burned
child shouldn't grow absentminded."

At his tone and his laugh Loder's blood stirred; with a
sudden, unexpected impulse his hand tightened on the banister,
and, looking up, he caught sight of the face above him--his
own face, it seemed, alight with malicious interest.  At the
sight a strange sensation seized him; his grip on the banister
loosened, and, pushing past Chilcote, he hurriedly mounted the
stairs.

Outside his own door the other overtook him.

"Loder!" he said.  "Loder!  I meant no harm.  A man must have
a laugh sometimes."

But Loder was facing the door and did not turn round.

A sudden fear shook Chilcote.  "Loder!" he exclaimed again,
"you wouldn't desert me?  I can't go back to-night.  I can't
go back."

Still Loder remained immovable.

Alarmed by his silence, Chilcote stepped closer to him.

"Loder!  Loder, you won't desert me?"  He caught hastily at
his arm.

With a quick repulsion Loder shook him off; then almost as
quickly he turned round.

"What fools we all are!" he said, abruptly.  "We, only differ
in degree.  Come in, and let us change our clothes."


XIII


The best moments of a man's life are the moments when, strong
in himself, he feels that the world lies before him.
Gratified ambition may be the summer, but anticipation is the
ardent spring-time of a man's career.

As Loder drove that night frown Fleet Street to Grosvenor
Square he realized this--though scarcely with any degree of
consciousness--for he was no accomplished self-analyst.  But
in a wave of feeling too vigorous to be denied he recognized
his regained foothold--the step that lifted him at once from
the pit to the pinnacle.

In that moment of realization he looked neither backward nor
forward.  The present was all-sufficing.  Difficulties might
loom ahead, but difficulties had but one object--the testing
and sharpening of a man's strength.  In the first deep surge
of egotistical feeling he almost rejoiced in Chilcote's
weakness.  The more Chilcote tangled the threads of his life,
the stronger must be the fingers that unravelled them.  He was
possessed by a great impatience; the joy of action was
stirring in his blood.

Leaving the cab, he walked confidently to the door of
Chilcote's house and inserted the latch-key.  Even in this
small act there was a grain of individual satisfaction.  Then
very quietly he opened the door and crossed the hall.

As he entered, a footman was arranging the fire that burned in
the big grate.  Seeing the man, he halted.

"Where is your mistress?" he asked, in unconscious repetition
of his first question in the same house.

The man looked up.  "She has just finished dinner, sir.  She
dined alone in her own room."  He glanced at Loder in the
quick, uncertain way that was noticeable in all the servants
of the household when they addressed their master.  Loder saw
the look and wondered what depth of curiosity it betrayed, how
much of insight into the domestic life that he must always be
content to skim.  For an instant the old resentment against
Chilcote tinged his exaltation, but he swept it angrily aside.
Without further remark he began to mount the stairs.

Gaining the landing, he did not turn as usual to the door that
shut off Chilcote's rooms, but moved onward down the corridor
towards Eve's private sitting-room.  He moved slowly till the
door was reached; then he, paused and lifted his hand.  There
was a moment's wait while his fingers rested on the handle;
then a sensation he could not explain--a reticence, a reluctance
to intrude upon this one precinct--caused his, fingers to relax.
With a slightly embarrassed gesture he drew back slowly and
retraced his steps.

Once in Chilcote's bedroom, he walked to the nearest bell and
pressed it.  Renwick responded, and at sight of him Loder's
feelings warmed with the same sense of fitness and familiarity
that the great bed and sombre furniture of the room had
inspired.

But the man did not come forward as he had expected.  He
remained close to the door with a hesitation that was unusual
in a trained servant.  It struck Loder that possibly his
stolidity had exasperated Chilcote, and that possibly Chilcote
had been at no pains to conceal the exasperation.  The idea
caused him to smile involuntarily.

"Come into the room, Renwick," he said.  "It's uncomfortable
to see you standing there.  I want to know if Mrs. Chilcote
has sent me any message about to-night."

Renwick studied him furtively as he came forward.  "Yes, sir,"
he said.  "Mrs. Chilcote's maid said that the carriage was
ordered for ten-fifteen, and she hoped that would suit you."
He spoke reluctantly, as if expecting a rebuke.

At the opening sentence Loder had turned aside, but now, as
the man finished, he wheeled round again and looked at him
closely with his keen, observant eyes.

"Look here," he said.  "I can't have you speak to me like
that.  I may come down on you rather sharply when my--my
nerves are bad; but when I'm myself I treat you--well, I treat
you decently, at any rate.  You'll have to learn to
discriminate.  Look at me now!"  A thrill of risk and of
rulership passed through him as he spoke.  "Look at me now!
Do I look as I looked this morning--or yesterday?"

The man eyed him half stupidly, half timidly.

"Well?" Loder insisted.

"Well, sir," Renwick responded, with some slowness; "you look
the same--and you look different.  A healthier color, perhaps,
sir--and the eye clearer."  He grew more confident under
Loder's half-humorous, half-insistent gaze.  "Now that I look
closer, sir--"

Loder laughed.  "That's it!" he said.  "Now that you look
closer.  You'll have to grow observant: observation is an
excellent quality in a servant.  Wheat you come into a
room in future, look first of all at me--and take your
cue from that.  Remember that serving a man with nerves
is  like serving two masters.  Now you can go; and tell
Mrs. Chilcote's maid that I shall be quite ready at a
quarter-past ten."

"Yes, sir.  And after that?"

"Nothing further.  I sha'n't want you again to-night."  He
turned away as he spoke, and moved towards the great fire that
was always kept alight in Chilcote's room.  But as the man
moved towards the door he wheeled back again.  "Oh, one thing
more, Renwick!  Bring me some sandwiches and a whiskey."  He
remembered for the first time that he had eaten nothing since
early afternoon.

At a few minutes after ten Loder left Chilcote's room,
resolutely descended the stairs, and took up his position in
the hall.  Resolution is a strong word to apply to such a
proceeding, but something in his bearing, in the attitude of
his shoulders and head, instinctively suggested it.

Five or six minutes passed, but he waited without impatience;
then at last the sound of a carriage stopping before the house
caused him to lift his head, and at the same instant Eve
appeared at the head of the staircase.

She stood there for a second, looking down on him, her maid a
pace or two behind, holding her cloak.  The picture she made
struck upon his mind with something of a revelation.

On his first sight of her she had appealed to him as a strange
blending of youth and self-possession--a girl
with a woman's clearer perception of life; later he had been
drawn to study her in other aspects--as a possible comrade and
friend; now for the first time he saw her as a power in her
own world, a woman to whom no man could deny consideration.
She looked taller for the distance between them, and the
distinction of her carriage added to the effect.  Her black
gown was exquisitely soft--as soft as her black hair; above
her forehead was a cluster of splendid diamonds shaped like a
coronet, and a band of the same stones encircled her neck.
Loder realized in a glance that only the most distinguished of
women could wear such ornaments and not have her beauty
eclipsed.  With a touch of the old awkwardness that had before
assailed him in her presence, he came slowly forward as she
descended the stairs.

"Can I help you with your cloak?" he asked.  And as he asked
it, something like surprise at his own timidity crossed his
mind.

For a second Eve's glance rested on his face.  Her expression
was quite impassive, but as she lowered her lashes a faint
gleam flickered across her eyes; nevertheless, her answer,
when it came, was studiously courteous.

"Thank you," she said,  "but Marie will do all I want."

Loder looked at her for a moment, then turned aside.  He was
not hurt by his rebuff; rather, by an interesting sequence of
impressions, he was stirred by it.  The pride that had refused
Chilcote's help, and the self-control that had refused it
graciously, moved him to admiration.  He understood and
appreciated both by the light of person experience.

"The carriage is waiting, sir," Crapham's voice broke in.

Loder nodded, and Eve turned to her maid.  "That will do,
Marie," she said.  "I shall want a cup of chocolate when I get
back--probably at one o clock."  She drew her cloak about her
shoulders and moved towards the door.  Then she paused and
looked back.  "Shall we start?" she asked, quietly.

Loder, still watching her, came forward at once.  "Certainly,"
he said, with unusual gentleness.

He followed her as she crossed the footpath, but made no
further offer of help; and when the moment came he quietly
took his place beside her in the carriage.  His last impression,
as the horses wheeled round, was of the open hall door--Crapham
in his sombre livery and the maid in her black dress, both
silhouetted against the dark background of the hall; then, as
the carriage moved forward smoothly and rapidly, he leaned back
in his seat and closed his eyes.

During the first few moments of the drive there was silence.
To Loder there was a strange, new sensation in this
companionship, so close and yet so distant.  He was so near to
Eve that the slight fragrant scent from her clothes might
almost have belonged to his own.  The impression was confusing
yet vaguely delightful.  It was years since he had been so
close to a woman of his own class--his own caste.  He
acknowledged the thought with a curious sense of pleasure.
Involuntarily he turned and looked at her.

She was sitting very straight, her fine profile cut clear
against the carriage window, her diamonds quivering in the
light that flashed by them from the street.  For a space the
sense of unreality that had pervaded  his first entrance into
Chilcote's life touched him again, then another and more
potent feeling rose to quell it.  Almost involuntarily as he
looked at her his lips parted.

"May I say something?" he asked.

Eve remained motionless.  She did not turn her head, as most
women would have done.  "Say anything you like," she said,
gravely.

"Anything?" He bent a little nearer, filled again by the
inordinate wish to dominate.

"Of course."

It seemed to him that her voice sounded forced and a little
tired.  For a moment he looked through the window at the
passing lights; then slowly his gaze returned to her face.

"You look very beautiful to-night," he said.  His voice was
low and his manner unemotional, but his words had the effect
he desired.

She turned her head, and her eyes met his in a glance of
curiosity and surprise.

Slight as the triumph was, it thrilled him.  The small scene
with Chilcote's valet came back to him; his own personality
moved him again to a reckless determination to make his own
voice heard.  Leaning forward, he laid his hand lightly on her
arm.

"Eve," he said, quickly--"Eve, do you remember?"  Then he
paused and withdrew his hand.  The horses had slackened speed,
then stopped altogether as the carriage fell into line outside
Bramfell House.


XIV


Loder entered Lady Bramfell's feeling far more like an actor
in a drama than an ordinary man in a peculiar situation.  It
was the first time he had played Chilcote to a purely social
audience, and the first time for many years that he had rubbed
shoulders with a well-dressed crowd ostensibly brought
together for amusement.  As he followed Eve along the corridor
that led to the reception-rooms he questioned the reality of
the position again and again; then abruptly, at the moment
when the sensation of unfamiliarity was strongest, a cheery
voice hailed him, and, turning, he saw the square shoulders,
light eyes, and pointed mustache of Lakeley, the owner of the
'St. George's Gazette'.

At the sight of the man and the sound of his greeting his
doubts and speculations vanished.  The essentials of life rose
again to the position they had occupied three weeks ago, in
the short but strenuous period when his dormant activities had
been stirred and he had recognized his true self.  He lifted
his head unconsciously, the shade of misgiving that had
crossed his confidence passing from him as he smiled at
Lakeley with a keen, alert pleasure that altered his whole
face.

Eve, looking back, saw the expression.  It attracted and held
her, like a sudden glimpse into a secret room.  In all the
years of her marriage, in the months of her courtship even,
she had never surprised the look on Chilcote's face.  The
impression came quickly.  and with it a strange, warm rush of
interest that receded slowly, leaving an odd sense of
loneliness.  But, at the moment that the feeling came and
passed, her attention was claimed in another direction.  A
slight, fair-haired boy forced his way towards her through the
press of people that filled the corridor.

"Mrs. Chilcote!" he exclaimed.  "Can I believe my luck in
finding you alone?"

Eve laughed.  It seemed that there was relief in her laugh.
"How absurd you are, Bobby!" she said, kindly.  "But you are
wrong.  My husband is here--I am waiting for him."

Blessington looked round.  "Oh!" he said.  "Indeed!"  Then he
relapsed into silence.  He was the soul of good-nature, but
those who knew him best knew that Chilcote's summary change of
secretaries had rankled.  Eve, conscious of the little jar,
made haste to smooth it away.

"Tell me about yourself," she said.  "What have you been
doing?"

Blessington looked at her, then smiled again, his buoyancy
restored.  "Doing?" he said.  "Oh, calling every other
afternoon at Grosvenor Square--only to find that a certain
lady is never at home."

At his tone Eve laughed again.  The boy, with his frank and
ingenuous nature, had beguiled many a dull hour for her in
past days, and she had missed him not a little when his place
had been filled by Greening.

"But I mean seriously, Bobby.  Has something good turned up?"

Blessington made a wry face "Something is on its way--that's
why I am on duty to-right.  Old Bramfell and the pater are
working it between them.  So if Lady Bramfell or Lady Astrupp
happen to drop a fan or a handkerchief this evening, I've got
to be here to pick it up.  See?"

"As you picked up my fans and handkerchiefs last year--and the
year before?" Eve smiled.

Blessington's face suddenly looked grave.  "I wish you hadn't
said that," he said.  Then he paused abruptly.  Out of the hum
of talk behind them a man's laugh sounded.  It was not loud, but
it was a laugh that one seldom hears in a London drawing-room
--it expressed interest, amusement, and in an inexplicable
may it seemed also to express strength.

Eve and Blessington both turned involuntarily.

"By Jove!" said Blessington

Eve said nothing.

Loder was parting with Lakely, and his was the laugh that had
attracted them both.  The interest excited by his talk was
still reflected in his face and bearing as he made his way
towards them.

"By Jove!" said Blessington again.  "I never realized that
Chilcote was so tall."

Again Eve said nothing.  But silently and with a more subtle
meaning she found herself echoing the words.

Until he was quite close to her, Loder did not seem to see
her.  Then he stopped quietly.

"I was speaking to Lakely," he said.  "He wants me to dine
with him one night at Cadogan Gardens."

But Eve was silent, waiting for him to address Blessington.
She glanced at him quickly, but though their eyes met he did
not catch the meaning that lay in hers.  It was a difficult
moment.  She had known him incredibly, almost unpardonably,
absent-minded, but it had invariably been when he was
suffering from nerves," as she phrased it to herself.  But
to-night he was obviously in the possession of unclouded
faculties.  She colored slightly and glanced under her lashes
at Blessington.  Had the same idea struck him, she wondered?
But he was studiously studying a suit of Chinese armor that
stood close by in a niche of the wall.

"Bobby has been keeping me amused while you talked to Mr.
Lakely," she said, pointedly.

Directly addressed, Loder turned and looked at Blessington.
"How d'you do?" he said, with doubtful cordiality.  The name
of Bobby conveyed nothing to him.

To his surprise, Eve looked annoyed, and Blessington's
fresh-colored face deepened in tone.  With a slow,
uncomfortable sensation he was aware of having struck a
wrong note.

There was a short, unpleasant pause.  Then, more by intuition
than actual sight, Blessington saw Eve's eyes turn from him to
Loder, and with quick tact he saved the situation.

"How d'you do, sir?" he responded, with a smile.  "I
congratulate you on looking so--so uncommon well.  I was just
telling Mrs. Chilcote that I hold a commission for Lady
Astrupp to-night.  I'm a sort of scout at present--reporting
on the outposts."  He spoke fast and without much meaning, but
his boyish voice eased the strain.

Eve thanked him with a smile.  "Then we mustn't interfere with
a person on active service," she said.  "Besides, we have our
own duties to get through."

She smiled again, and, touching Loder's arm, indicated the
reception-rooms.

When they entered the larger of the two rooms Lady Bramfell
was still receiving her guests.  She was a tall and angular
woman, who, except for a certain beauty of hands and feet and
a certain similarity of voice, possessed nothing in common
with her sister Lillian.  She was speaking to a group of
people as they approached, and the first sound of her sweet
and rather drawling tones touched Loder with a curious
momentary feeling--a vague suggestion of awakened memories.
Then the suggestion vanished as she turned and greeted Eve.

"How sweet of you to come!" she murmured.  And it seemed to
Loder that a more spontaneous smile lighted up her face.  Then
she extended her hand to him.  "And you, too!" she added.
"Though I fear we shall bore you dreadfully."

Watching her with interest, he saw the change of expression as
her eyes turned from Eve to him, and noticed a colder tone in
her voice as she addressed him directly.  The observation
moved him to self-assertion.

"That's a poor compliment to me," he said "To be bored is
surely only a polite way of being inane."

Lady Bramfell smiled.  "What!" she exclaimed.  "You defending
your social reputation?"

Loder laughed a little.  "The smaller it is, the more
defending it needs," he replied.

Another stream of arrivals swept by them as he spoke; Eve
smiled at their hostess and moved across the room, and he
perforce followed.  As he gained her side, the little court
about Lady Bramfell was left well in the rear, the great
throng at the farther end of the room was not yet reached, and
for the moment they were practically alone.

There was a certain uneasiness in that moment of companionship.
It seemed to him that Eve wished to speak, but hesitated.  Once
or twice she opened and closed the fan that she was carrying,
then at last, as if by an effort, she turned and looked at him.

"Why were you so cold to Bobby Blessington?" she asked.
"Doesn't it seem discourteous to ignore him as you did?"

Her manner was subdued.  It was not the annoyed manner that
one uses to a man when he has behaved ill; it was the
explanatory tone one might adopt towards an incorrigible
child.  Loder felt this; but the gist of a remark always came
to him first, its mode of expression later.  The fact that it
was Blessington whom he had encountered--Blessington to whom
he had spoken with vague politeness--came to him with a sense
of unpleasantness.  He was not to blame in the matter,
nevertheless he blamed himself.  He was annoyed that, he
should have made the slip in Eve's presence.

They were moving forward, nearing the press of people in the
second room, when Eve spoke, and the fact filled him with an
added sense of annoyance.  People smiled and bowed to her from
every side; one woman leaned forward as they passed and
whispered something in her ear.  Again the sensation of
futility and vexation filled him; again he realized how
palpable was the place she held in the world.  Then, as his
feelings reached their height and speech seemed forced upon
him, a small man with a round face, catching a glimpse of Eve,
darted from a circle of people gathered in one of the windows
and came quickly towards them.

With an unjust touch of irritation he recognized Lord
Bramfell.

Again the sense of Eve's aloofness stung him as their host
approached.  In another moment she would be lost to him among
this throng of strangers--claimed by them as by right.

"Eve--" he said, involuntarily and under his breath.

She half paused and turned towards him.  "Yes?" she said; and
he wondered if it was his imagination that made the word sound
slightly eager.

"About that matter of Blessington--" he began.  Then he
stopped, Bramfell had reached them.

The little man came up smiling and with an outstretched hand.
"There's no penalty for separating husband and wife, is there,
Mrs. Chilcote?  How are you, Chilcote?"  He turned from one to
the other with the quick, noiseless manner that always
characterized him.

Loder turned aside to hide his vexation, but Eve greeted their
host with her usual self-possessed smile.

"You are exempt from all penalties to-night," she said.  Then
she turned to greet the members of his party who had strolled
across from the window in his wake.

As she moved aside Bramfell looked at Loder.  "Well, Chilcote,
have you dipped into the future yet?" he asked, with a laugh.

Loder echoed the laugh but said nothing.  In his uncertainty
at the question he reverted to his old resource of silence.

Bramfell raised his eyebrows.  "What!" he said.  "Don't tell
me that my sister-in-law hasn't engaged you as a victim."
Then he turned in Eve's direction.  "You've heard of our new
departure, Mrs. Chilcote?"

Eve looked round from the lively group by which she was
surrounded.  "Lillian's crystal-gazing?  Why, of course!" she
said.  "She should make a very beautiful seer.  We are all
quite curious."

Bramfell pursed up his lips.  "She has a very beautiful tent
at the end of the conservatory.  It took five men as many days
to rig it up.  We couldn't hear ourselves talk, for hammering.
My wife said it made her feel quite philanthropic, it reminded
her so much of a charity bazaar."

Everybody laughed; and at the same moment Blessington came
quickly across the room and joined the group.

"Hallo!" he said.  "Anybody seen Witcheston?  He's next on my
list for the crystal business."

Again the whole party laughed, and Bramfell, stepping forward,
touched Blessington's arm in mock seriousness.

"Witcheston is playing bridge, like a sensible man," he said.
"Leave him in peace, Bobby."

Blessington made a comical grimace.  "But I'm working this on
commercial principles," he said.  "I keep the list, names and
hours complete, and Lady Astrupp gazes, in blissful ignorance
as to who her victims are.  The whole thing is great--simple
and statistical."

"For goodness' sake, Bobby, shut up!"  Bramfell's round eyes
were twinkling with amusement.

"But my system--"

"Systems!  Ah, we all had them when we were as young as you
are!"

"And they all had flaws, Bobby," Eve broke in.  "We were always
finding gaps that had to be filled up.  Never mind about Lord
Witcheston.  Get a substitute; it won't count--if Lillian
doesn't know."

Blessington wavered as she spoke.  His eyes wandered round the
party and again rested on Bramfell.

"Not me, Bobby!  Remember, I've breathed crystals--practically
lived on them--for the last week.  Now, there's Chilcote--"
Again his eyes twinkled.

All eyes were turned on Loder, though one or two strayed
surreptitiously to Eve.  She, seeming sensitive to the
position, laughed quickly.

"A very good idea!" she said.  "Who wants to see the future,
if not a politician?"

Loder glanced from her to Blessington.  Then, with a very
feminine impulse, she settled the matter beyond dispute.

"Please use your authority, Bobby," she said.  "And when
you've got him safely under canvas, come back to me.  It's
years since we've had a talk."  She nodded and smiled, then
instantly turned to Bramfell with some trivial remark.

For a second Loder waited, then with a movement of resignation
he laid his hand on Blessington's arm.  "Very well!" he said.
"But if my fate is black, witness it was my wife who sent me
to it."  His faint pause on the word wife, the mention of the
word itself in the presence of these people, had a savor of
recklessness.  The small discomfiture of his earlier slip
vanished before it; he experienced a strong reaction of
confidence in his luck.  With a cool head, a steady step, and
a friendly pressure of the fingers on Blessington's arm, he
allowed himself to be drawn across the reception-rooms,
through the long corridors, and down the broad flight of steps
that led to the conservatory.

The conservatory was a feature of the Bramfell townhouse, and
to Loder it came as something wonderful and unlooked-for--with
its clustering green branches, its slight, unoppressive scents,
its temperately pleasant atmosphere.  He felt no wish to speak
as, still guided by Blessington, he passed down the shadowy
paths that in the half-light had the warmth and mystery of a
Southern garden.  Here and there from the darkness came the
whispering of a voice or the sound of a laugh, bringing with
them the necessary touch of life.  Otherwise the place was still.

Absorbed by the air of solitude, contrasting so remarkably
with the noise and crowded glitter left behind in the
reception-rooms, he had moved half-way down the long, green
aisle before the business in hand came back to him with a
sudden sense of annoyance.  It seemed so paltry to mar the
quiet of the place with the absurdity of a side-show.  He
turned to Blessington with a touch of abruptness.

"What am I expected to do?" he asked.

Blessington looked up, surprised.  "Why, I thought, sir--" he
began.  Then he instantly altered his tone: "Oh, just enter
into the spirit of the thing.  Lady Astrupp won't put much
strain on your credulity, but she'll make a big call on your
solemnity."  He laughed.

He had an infectious laugh, and Loder responded to it.

"But what am I to do?" he persisted.

"Oh, nothing.  Being the priestess, she, naturally demands
acolytes; but she'll let you know that she holds the prior
place.  The tent is so fixed that she sees nothing beyond your
hands; so there's absolutely no delusion."  He laughed once
more.  Then suddenly he lowered his voice and slackened his
steps.  "Here we are!" he whispered, in pretended awe.

At the end of the path the space widened to the full breadth
of the conservatory.  The light was dimmer, giving an added
impression of distance; away to the left, Loder heard the
sound of splashing water, and on his right hand he caught his
first glimpse of the tent that was his goal.

It was an artistic little structure--a pavilion formed of
silky fabric that showed bronze in the light of an Oriental
lamp that hung above its entrance.  As they drew closer, a man
emerged from it.  He stood for a moment in uncertainty,
looking about him; then, catching sight of them, he came
forward laughing.

"By George!" he exclaimed, "it's as dark as limbo in there!  I
didn't see you at first.  But I say, Blessirigton, it's a
beastly shame to have that thunder-cloud barrier shutting off
the sorceress.  If she gazes at the crystal, mayn't we have
something to gaze at, too?"

Blessington laughed.  "You want too much, Galltry," he said.
"Lady Astrupp understands the value of the unattainable.  Come
along, sir!" he added to Loder, drawing him forward with an
energetic pressure of the arm.

Loder responded, and as he did so a flicker of curiosity
touched his mind for the first time.  He wondered for an
instant who this woman was who aroused so much comment.  And
with the speculation came the remembrance of how she had
assured Chilcote that on one point.  at least he was
invulnerable.  He had spoken then from the height of a past
experience--an experience so fully passed that he wondered now
if it had been as staple a guarantee as he had then believed.
Man's capacity for outliving is astonishingly complete.  The
long-ago incident in the Italian mountains had faded, like a
crayon study in which the tones have merged and gradually lost
character.  The past had paled before the present--as golden
hair might pale before black.  The simile came with apparent
irrelevance.  Then again Blessington pressed his arm.

"Now, sir!" he said, drawing away and lifting the curtain that
hung before the entrance of the tent.

Loder looked at the amused, boyish face lighted by the hanging
lamp, and smiled pleasantly; then, with a shrug of the
shoulders, he entered the pavilion and the curtain fell behind
him.


XV


On entering the pavilion, Loder's first feeling was one of
annoyed awkwardness at finding himself in almost total
darkness.  But as his eyes grew accustomed to the gloom, the
feeling vanished and the absurdity of the position came to his
mind.

The tent was small, heavily draped with silk and smelling of
musk.  It was divided into two sections by an immovable
curtain that hung from the roof to within a few feet of the
floor.  The only furniture on Loder's side was one low chair,
and the only light a faint radiance that, coming from the
invisible half of the pavilion; spread across the floor in a
pale band.  For a short space he stood uncertain, then his
hesitation was brought to an end.

"Please sit down," said a low, soft voice.

For a further moment he stood undecided.  The voice sounded so
unexpectedly near.  In the quiet and darkness of the place it
seemed to possess a disproportionate weight--almost the weight
of a familiar thing.  Then, with a sudden, unanalyzed touch of
relief, he located the impression.  It was the similarity to
Lady Bramfell's sweet, slow tones that had stirred his mind.
With a sense of satisfaction he drew the chair forward and sat
down.

Then, for the first time, he saw that on the other side of
the gauze partition, and below it by a few inches, was a
small table of polished wood, on which stood an open book, a
crystal ball, and a gold dish filled with ink.  These were
arranged on the side of the table nearest to him, the farther
side being out of his range of vision.  An amused interest
touched him as he made his position more comfortable.  Whoever
this woman was, she had an eye for stage management, she knew
how to marshal her effects.  He found himself waiting with
some curiosity for the next injunction from behind the
curtain.

"The art of crystal-gazing," began the sweet, slow voice after
a pause, "is one of the oldest known arts."  Loder sat forward.
The thought of Lady Bramfell mingled disconcertingly with some
other thought more distant and less easy to secure.

"To obtain the best results," went on the seer, "the subject
lays his uncovered hands outspread upon a smooth surface."  It
was evident that the invisible priestess was reading from the
open book, for when the word "surface" was reached there was a
slight stir that indicated the changing of position; and when.
the voice came again it was in a different tone.

"Please lay your hands, palms downward, upon the table."

Loder smiled to himself in the darkness.  He pictured Chilcote
with his nerves and his impatience going through this ordeal;
then in good-humored silence he leaned forward and obeyed the
command.  His hands rested on the smooth surface of the table
in the bar of light from the unseen lamp.

There was a second in which the seer was silent; then he
fancied that she raised her head.

"You must take off your rings," she said smoothly.  "Any metal
interferes with the sympathetic current."

At any other time Loder would have laughed; but the request so
casually and graciously made sent all possibility of irony far
into the background.  The thought of Chilcote and of the one
flaw in their otherwise flawless scheme rose to his mind.
Instinctively he half withdrew his hands.

"Where is the sympathetic current?" he asked, quietly.  His
thoughts were busy with the question of whether he would or
would not be justified in beating an undignified retreat.

"Between you and me, of course," said the voice, softly.  It
sounded languid, but very rational.  The idea of retreat
seemed suddenly theatrical.  In this world of low voices and
shaded lights people never adopted extreme measures--no
occasion made a scene practicable, or even allowable.  He
leaned back slowly, while he summed up the situation.  If by
any unlucky chance this woman knew Chilcote to have adopted
jewelry and had seen the designs of his rings, the sight of
his own scarred finger would suggest question and comment; if,
on the other hand, he left the pavilion without excuse, or if,
without apparent reason, he refused to remove the rings, he
opened up a new difficulty--a fresh road to curiosity.  It
came upon him with unusual quickness--the obstacles to, and
the need for, a speedy decision.  He glanced round the tent,
then unconsciously he straightened his shoulders.  After all,
he had stepped into a tight corner, but there was no need to
cry out in squeezing his way back.  Then he realized that the
soft, ingratiating tones were sounding once more.

"It's the passing of my hands over yours, while I look into
the crystal, that sets up sympathy"--a slender hand moved
swiftly into the light and picked up the ball--"and makes my
eyes see the pictures in your mind.  Now, will you please take
off your rings?"

The very naturalness of the request disarmed him.  It was a
risk.  But, as Chilcote had said, risk was the salt of life!

"I'm afraid you think me very troublesome."  The voice came
again, delicately low and conciliatory.

For a brief second Loder wondered uncertainly how long or how
well Chilcote knew Lady Astrupp; then he dismissed the
question.  Chilcote had never mentioned her until to-night,
and then casually as Lady Bramfell's sister.  What a coward he
was becoming in throwing the dice with Fate!  Without further
delay he drew off the rings, slipped them into his pocket, and
replaced his hands on the smooth table-top.

Then, at the moment that he replaced them, a peculiar thing
occurred.

From the farther side of the dark partition came the quick,
rustling stir of a skirt, and the slight scrape of a chair
pushed either backward or forward.  Then there was silence.

Now, silence can suggest anything, from profound thought to
imbecility; but in this case its suggestion was nil.  That
something had happened, that some change had taken place, was
as patent to Loder as the darkness of the curtain or the band
of light that crossed the floor, but what had occasioned it,
or what it stood for, he made no attempt to decide.  He sat
bitingly conscious of his hands spread open on the table under
the scrutiny of eyes that were invisible to him vividly aware
of the awkwardness of his position.  To this notice might be
added an expression of deep regret that there should be any
controversy as to the real nature of Sir James Brooke's operations
in the East. This scandal ought surely to be put an end to
by some distinct investigation and avowal one way or the other.

The above notice of Sir James Brooke naturally suggests a
recollection of his relentless accuser, Joseph Hume, and we
turn up the account of that personage.

'Hume, Joseph, a Radical Reformer, whose history adds another
memorable example of perseverance raising its possessor from a
humble station to distinction.

He was born at Montrose, in the year 1777. While he was still
young, his father, the master of a small trading-vessel of
that port, died, leaving his widow to bring up a numerous
family. Mrs Hume, it is related, maintained herself and her
children by means of a small earthenware business, and placed
Joseph in a school of the town, where he received an education
which included instruction in the elements of Latin.

With such scanty stores of knowledge, he was apprenticed to a
surgeon of Montrose, with whom he served three years.

Having attended the prescribed lectures to the medical classes
in the university of Edinburgh, he was admitted, in 1796, a
member of the College of Surgeons in that city.

India was at that time a favourite, and, indeed, almost the only
field for the young who had no other fortune than their talents and
enterprise.

To India, accordingly, Mr Hume went, and entered as a surgeon
the naval service of the East India Company. He had not
been there three years, before he was placed on the
medical establishment of Bengal. Here, while increasing
his professional reputation, he had the opportunity of watching
the whole operation of the machinery of the Company's service.
His quick eye soon detected the deficiencies of the greater
number of the Company's servants in command of the native
language, an acquirement so valuable in possessions such as ours.

He determined to acquire a knowledge of the dialects of India,
not doubting that a sphere of larger utility and greater
emolument would open before his efforts. The Mahratta war
breaking out in 1803, Mr Hume was attached to Major-general
Powell's division, and accompanied it on its march from
Allahabad into Bundelcund. The want of interpreters was now
felt, as Hume had expected, and the commander was glad to find
among his surgeons a man capable of supplying the deficiency.
He continued to discharge his new duties without resigning his
medical appointment, and managed to combine with both the
offices of pay-master and post-master of the troops. His
ability to hold direct intercourse with the natives continued to
be of immense service to him, and enabled him to hold simultaneously
a number of offices with most varied duties, such as nothing but
an unwearying frame and an extraordinary capacity could have enabled
any one person to discharge.

At the conclusion of the peace, he returned to the presidency,
richer by many golden speculations, for which a period of war
never fails to offer opportunities. In 1808, having accomplished
the object for which he left his native land, he
came to England, and, after an interval of repose, determined upon
making a tour of the country, the better to acquaint himself with
the condition of its inhabitants.'

After making this tour, and visiting various continental
countries, he returned to England, where he devoted himself
to a political career; and since 1812, he has for the most part
had a seat in the House of Commons.

His parliamentary history since 1818 has been that of a reformer
of abuses and enemy of monopoly, and he is respected even by
those who differ from him in opinion.

Our next specimen is--
'Thackeray, William Makepeace, author, was born in India, in
1811.

He is of good family, and was originally intended for the
bar, of which he is now a member. He kept seven or eight terms
at Cambridge, but left the university without taking a degree,
for the purpose of becoming an artist. After about three years'
desultory practice, he devoted himself to literature, abandoning
the design of making a position as a painter, and only
employed his pictorial talents in illustration of his own writings.

For a short time, he conducted a literary and artistic review,
similar in plan to the _Athenæum_; but the new journal,
although characterised by great ability, perished in competition
with established rivals.

He also, with the assistance of Dr Maginn, started a newspaper;
but this was unsuccessful. His first distinction was won as
a writer in _Fraser's Magazine_, _Punch_, and other periodicals
of character. In the latter amusing periodical appeared his
_Jeames's Diary_, a clever satire on the follies of the railway
mania, exposing the hollow foundation upon which railway fortunes
and reputations were made.

His _Snob Papers_, published in the same manner, have since
been collected and reprinted with great success.

His satire is as keen as that of Fielding. His _Paris Sketch-Book_
appeared in 1840.

His _Irish Sketch-Book_, with numerous engravings drawn
by the author, was published in 1845. In the next year, appeared
his _Notes of a Journey from Cornhill to Grand Cairo_; and
in 1847, the first numbers of _Vanity Fair_ appeared, in the proper
name of their author.

This, Thackeray's first fully-developed novel, has been followed
by _Arthur Pendennis_, completed in 1851.

His Christmas-book, entitled _The Kickleburies on the Rhine_,
was attacked by a writer in the _Times_; whereupon Mr
Thackeray replied, in a very unmistakable way, in a preface to the
second edition of the work.

The critic fared very badly in the contest.' The charge made
against Mr Thackeray is, that he abuses the characters of the
literary class with a view apparently of catering to public prejudice.

We believe that any such imputation is entirely unfounded; and that
Mr Thackeray's observations on the infirmities of authors are due
to an honest exposition of his subject.

Mr Thackeray has lately imparted much delight by delivering lectures
on the literary personages of last century; and in this very act
has gracefully raised the public estimation of living authorcraft.

We may extract the following passages respecting the early
career of Mr Dickens:--

'Dickens, Charles, the most popular writer of his time, was born
in February 1812, at Landport, Portsmouth. His father, the
late Mr John Dickens, in the earlier part of his life, enjoyed
a post in the Navy Pay Department, the duties of which
required that he should reside from time to time in different
seaports: now at Plymouth, now at Portsmouth, and then at Sheerness.

"In the glorious days" of the war with France, these towns
were full of life, bustle, and character; and the father of
"Boz" was at times fond of dilating upon the strange scenes he had
witnessed.

One of his stories described a sitting-room he once enjoyed at
Blue-town, Sheerness, abutting on the theatre. Of an evening,
he used to sit in this room, and could hear what was passing
on the stage, and join in the chorus of _God save the King_,
and _Britannia rules the Waves_--then the favourite songs of
Englishmen.

The war being at an end, amongst those who left the public service
with a pension was the father of our novelist.

Coming to London, he subsequently found lucrative employment for
his talents on the press as a reporter of parliamentary debates.

Charles Dickens may, therefore, be said to have been in his
youth familiarised with "copy;" and when his father, with parental
anxiety for his future career, took the preliminary steps for making
his son an attorney, the dreariness of the proposed occupation fell
so heavily upon the mind of the future author, that he induced his
father to permit him to resign the law, and join the parliamentary
corps of a daily newspaper.

His first engagement was on the _True Sun_, an ultra-liberal
paper, then carrying on a fierce struggle for existence, from the
staff of which he afterwards passed into the reporting ranks of the
_Morning Chronicle_.

On that paper, he obtained reputation as a first-rate man--his
reports being exceedingly rapid, and no less correct.

In the columns of the _Chronicle_ he soon gave proofs of other
talents than those of a reporter; for in the evening edition of
that journal appeared the _Sketches of English Life and Character_,
afterwards collected to form the two well-known volumes of _Sketches
by Boz_, published respectively in 1836 and 1837.

These at once attracted considerable notice, and obtained great
success; and the publisher of the collected edition, anxious to
make the most of the prize which had fallen to his lot, gladly came
to an arrangement with Mr Dickens and Seymour, the comic draughtsman--the
one to write, and the other to illustrate a book which should exhibit
the adventures of a party of Cockney sportsmen.

Hence the appearance of _Pickwick_, a book which made its
author's reputation and the publishers' fortune. After the
work had commenced, poor Seymour committed suicide, and Mr Hablot K.

Browne was selected to continue the illustrations, which he did
under the signature of "Phiz." Meanwhile, Mr Dickens had courted
and married the daughter of Mr George Hogarth, then, and now,
a musical writer; a man of considerable attainments, and
who, in his earlier days, whilst a writer to the Signet
in Edinburgh, enjoyed the intimate friendship of Sir Walter Scott,
Jeffrey, and the other literary notables at that day adorning the
Modern Athens.

The great success of _Pickwick_ brought down upon its author demands
from all sides for another work, and "Boz" agreed to write _Nicholas
Nickleby_, to be published in monthly parts.

In the prefatory notices, which give additional value to the
cheap and elegant reprint of the works of Dickens, we are
indulged with slight glimpses of his own recollections, personal
and literary.'

It is unnecessary to note the titles of Mr Dickens's subsequent
works, all of which have justly obtained popularity.

He has latterly entered on a path not dissimilar to our
own, and in this he has our very best wishes. The cause of
social melioration needs a union of hearts and hands.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Bogue, London: 1852.

ARCHBISHOP WHATELY'S BOOK OF SYNONYMS.

Accuracy of language is one of the things which, in ordinary
speech and writing, is but indifferently observed. The
reason, perhaps, is to be sought, not in any general indifference
to correctness or precision, but rather in the want of some recognised
authority, some specific rules or principles, to which the use of
words apparently synonymous, yet of slightly different signification,
might be distinctly and easily referred.

It is in regard to the finer shades of meaning, the subtler
touches of expression, the application of words and phrases
where the strictest exactness and perspicuity are required, that
an ordinary English style is apt to become loose and shadowy; and
it is precisely here that we are entitled to expect the severest,
chastest form of utterance.

Coleridge used to complain of a general confounding of the
word 'notion' with 'idea,' and was often at great pains to
point out the distinction between the two, as also between many
other words similarly misused.

Archdeacon Hare, too, has remarked upon the common misapplication
of such words as 'education' for 'instruction,' 'government' for
'administration,' 'the church' for 'the priesthood' or 'ministry;'
and indeed holds that such a confounding of terms leads to serious
practical misunderstandings and confusions.[3] Any one, upon
reflection, will perceive that in the common use of these and
numberless other words, there is often a signal lack of clearness
and precision, and will hardly fail to notice that the error proceeds
from a want of due attention to the nice and peculiar meanings of
words which are vaguely presumed to have the same signification.

As a help to those who may wish to attain a somewhat more than
common correctness of style and language, Archbishop Whately has
recently published a small work on _English Synonyms_;[4] and the
rapidity with which the first edition has been disposed of leads
us to infer that the public is to some extent prepared to take an
interest in the subject.

The second edition, 'revised and enlarged,' is now before
us, and it is thought that a brief glance at its contents may
not be unacceptable to some of our present readers.

The word 'synonym,' as the archbishop observes, is, in strict
reality, a misnomer.

'Literally, it implies an exact coincidence of meaning in two or
more words, in which case there would be no room for discussion;
but it is generally applied to words which would be more correctly
termed pseudo-synonyms--that is, words having a shade of difference,
yet with a sufficient resemblance of meaning to make them liable
to be confounded.

And it is in the number and variety of these that, as the Abbé
Girard well remarks, the richness of a language consists. To
have two or more words with exactly the same sense, is no proof
of copiousness, but simply an inconvenience.

A house would not be called well furnished from its having a
larger number of chairs and tables of one kind than were
needed, but from its having a separate article for each
distinct use.
The more power we have of discriminating the nicer shades
of meaning, the greater facility we possess of giving force and
precision to our expressions.

Our own language possesses great advantages in this respect;
for being partly derived from the Teutonic, and partly from the
Latin, we have a large number of duplicates from the two sources,
which are, for the most part, though not universally, slightly
varied in their meaning.

'These slight variations of meaning,' he proceeds, add
to the copiousness of the English language, by affording
words of more or less familiarity, and of greater and less
force. This may easily be understood, if we consider that
the branch of the Teutonic, spoken in England during the
Anglo-Saxon period, never became extinct, but that three-fourths
of the English language at present consist of words altered or
derived from that ancient dialect; that these words usually express
the most familiar ideas--such as _man_, _house_, _land_, &c.; and
that the French terms gradually introduced, being those of a more
highly civilised people, were adapted to express the more refined
ideas.

This is true even of physical objects; thus, for instance,
most of the names of the animals used for food are still
Teutonic--such as _ox_, _sheep_, _swine_, &c. The Anglo-Saxons,
like the modern Germans, had no objection to say _ox-flesh_,
_sheep-flesh_, _swine's-flesh_; but the Norman conquerors, introducing
a more refined cookery, introduced with it French words for the
flesh of the animal; hence we have _beef_, _mutton_, _pork_, &c.'

It has not been the author's design to notice _all_
the synonyms in the language--that, as he remarks, would be an
almost endless undertaking; 'but merely, after excluding technical
terms, and words which do exactly coincide, to select a few of those
groups of words which are in most frequent use, and are most liable
to be confounded.'

His purpose, perhaps, will be more distinctly shewn, if we add
a few more sentences from the preface.

'Many persons,' says he, 'imagine that two words must either
coincide precisely in their meaning, so as to be, in the primary
and strict sense of the word, "synonymous," or else stand for two
(more or less) distinct _things_.

Indeed, it would often be regarded as almost a truism
to assert this; but those who maintain such an opinion
overlook the fact, that two words, without exactly coinciding in
sense, may nevertheless relate to one and the same thing, regarded
in _two different points of view_.

An illustration of this is afforded in the relation which
exists between the words, "inference" and "proof." Whoever
justly infers, proves; and whoever proves, infers; but the word
"inference" leads the mind from the premises which have been assumed,
to the conclusion which follows from them; while the word "proof"
follows a reverse process, and leads the mind from the conclusion
to the premises.

We say: "What do you infer _from_ this?" and "How do you _prove_
that?"[5] Another illustration may be quoted in the synonyms,
"expense" and "cost." The same article may be expensive and
costly; but we speak of _expense_ in reference to the means of the
purchaser; of _cost_, in reference to the actual value of the
article.'

This work does not profess to deal much with _etymologies_; the
author thinking that any very strict attention to the _derivation_
of words, in connection with synonyms, would only tend to confuse
the subject.

The history of the origin and growth of words must undoubtedly
throw light upon their meanings; but he, nevertheless, holds the
two questions to be completely distinct and separable; and thinks
that, in an inquiry into the _actual_ and _present_ meaning of a
word, the consideration of what it originally meant may frequently
lead us into error.

A few suggestive remarks are given upon this matter.

'Our question is, not what _ought_ to be, or formerly was, the
meaning of a word, but what it _now_ is; nor can we be
completely guided by quotations from Shakspeare or
Milton, or even from Addison or Johnson.

Language has undergone such changes, even within the last
sixty or seventy years, that many words, at that time considered
pure, are now obsolete; while others--of which the word "mob" is a
specimen--formerly slang, are now used by our best writers, and
received, like pardoned outlaws, into the body of respectable
citizens.'

The standard, accordingly, to which the author refers
in the work before us, is the sense in which a word is used
by the purest writers and most correct speakers of our own
days.

The synonyms are arranged or classed according to the parts
of speech to which they belong--namely, into particles, nouns,
adjectives, and verbs.

The uses of all the words are well defined, and sufficiently
illustrated by examples; a table of contents and a complete
index are also added, rendering reference to any word as easy
as looking for it in a dictionary.
"I--I didn't notice it," he said; "but her eyes reminded me of
a cat's eyes--and she walks like a cat.  I never seemed to see
it--until to-night."

Eve changed her position.  "She was very artistic," she said,
tentatively.  "Don't you think the gold gown was beautiful
with her pale-colored hair?"

Loder felt surprised.  He was convinced that Eve disliked the
other and he was not sufficiently versed in women to
understand her praise.  "I thought--" he began.  Then he
wisely stopped.  "I didn't see the gown," he substituted.

Eve looked out of the window.  "How unappreciative men are!"
she said.  But her tone was strangely free from censure.

After this there was silence until Grosvenor Square was
reached.  Having left the carriage and passed into the house,
Eve paused for a moment at the foot of the stairs to give an
order to Crapham, who was still in attendance in the hall; and
again Loder had an opportunity of studying her.  As he looked,
a sharp comparison rose to his mind.

"A fairy princess!" he had heard the red-haired man say as
Lillian Astrupp came into view along the Bramfells' corridor,
and the simile had seemed particularly apt.  With her grace,
her delicacy, her subtle attraction, she might well be the
outcome of imagination.  But with Eve it was different.  She
also was graceful and attractive--but it was grace and
attraction of a different order.  One was beautiful with the
beauty of the white rose that springs from the hot-house and
withers at the first touch of cold; the other with the beauty
of the wild rose on the cliffs above the sea, that keeps its
petals fine and transparent in face of salt spray and wet
mist.  Eve, too, had her realm, but it was the realm of real
things.  A great confidence, a feeling that here one might
rely even if all other faiths were shaken, touched him suddenly.
For a moment he stood irresolute, watching her mount the stairs
with her easy, assured step.  Then a determination came to him.
Fate favored him to-night; he was in luck tonight.  He would put
his fortune to one more test.  He swung across the hall and ran
up the stairs.

His face was keen with interest as he reached her side.  The
hard outline of his features and the hard grayness of his eyes
were softened as when he had paused to talk with Lakely.
Action was the breath of his life, and his face changed under
it as another's might change under the influence of stirring
music or good wine.

Eve saw the look and again the uneasy expression of surprise
crossed her eyes.  She paused, her hand resting on the
banister.

Loder looked at her directly.  "Will you come into the study
--as you came that other night?  There's something I want to
say."  He spoke quietly.  He felt master of himself and of
her.

She hesitated, glanced at him, and then glanced away.

"Will you come?" he said again.  And as he said it his eyes
rested on the sweep of her thick eyelashes, the curve of the
black hair.

At last her lashes lifted, and the perplexity and doubt in her
blue eyes stirred him.  Without waiting for her answer, he
leaned forward.

"Say yes!" he urged.  "I don't often ask for favors."

Still she hesitated; then her decision was made for her.
With a new boldness he touched her arm, drawing her forward
gently but decisively towards Chilcote's rooms.

In the study a fire burned brightly, the desk was laden with
papers, the lights were nicely adjusted; even the chairs were
in their accustomed places.  Loder's senses responded to each
suggestion.  It seemed but a day since he had seen it last.
It was precisely as he had left it--the niche needing but the
man.

To hide his emotion he crossed the floor quickly and drew a
chair forward.  In less than six hours he had run up and down
the scale of emotions.  He had looked despair in the face,
till the sudden sight of Chilcote had lifted him to the skies;
since then, surprise had assailed him in its strongest form;
he had known the full meaning of the word "risk"; and from
every contingency he had come out conqueror.  He bent over the
chair as he pulled it forward, to hide the expression in his
eyes.

"Sit down," he said, gently.

Eve moved towards him.  She moved slowly, as if half afraid.
Many emotions stirred her--distrust, uncertainty, and a
curious half-dominant, half-suppressed questioning that it was
difficult to define.  Loder remembered her shrinking coldness,
her reluctant tolerance on the night of his first coming, and
his individuality, his certainty of power, kindled afresh.
Never had he been so vehemently himself; never had Chilcote
seemed so complete a shadow.

As Eve seated herself, he moved forward and leaned over the
back of her chair.  The impulse that had filled him in his
interview with Renwick, that had goaded him as he drove to the
reception, was dominant again.

"I tried to say something as we drove to the Bramfells'
to-night," he began.  Like many men who possess eloquence for
an impersonal cause, he was brusque, even blunt, in the
stating of his own case.  "May I hark back, and go on from
where I broke off?"

Eve half turned.  Her face was still puzzled and questioning.
"Of course."  She sat forward again, clasping her hands.

He looked thoughtfully at the back of her head, at the slim
outline of her shoulders, the glitter of the diamonds about
her neck.

"Do you remember the day, three weeks ago, that we talked
together in this room?  The day a great many things seemed
possible?"

This time she did not look round.  She kept her gaze upon the
fire.

"Do you remember?" he persisted, quietly.  In his college days
men who heard that tone of quiet persistence had been wont to
lose heart.  Eve heard it now for the first time, and, without
being aware, answered to it.

"Yes, I remember," she said.

"On that day you believed in me--"  In his earnestness he no
longer simulated Chilcote; he spoke with his own steady
reliance.  He saw Eve stir, unclasp and clasp her hands, but
he went steadily on.  "On that day you saw me in a new light.
You acknowledged me."  He emphasized the slightly peculiar
word.  "But since that day"--his voice quickened "since that
day your feelings have changed--your faith in me has fallen
away."  He watched her closely; but she made no sign, save to
lean still nearer to the fire.  He crossed his arms over the
back of her chair.  "You were justified," he said, suddenly.
"I've not been--myself since that day."  As he said the words
his coolness forsook him slightly.  He loathed the necessary
lie, yet his egotism clamored for vindication.  "All men have
their lapses," he went on; "there are times--there are days
and weeks when I--when  my--"  The word "nerves" touched his
tongue, hung upon it, then died away unspoken.

Very quietly, almost without a sound, Eve had risen and turned
towards him.  She was standing very straight, her face a
little pale, the hand that rested on the arm of her chair
trembling slightly.

"John," she said, quickly, "don't say that word?  Don't say
that hideous word `nerves'!  I don't feel that I can bear it
to-night--not just to-night.  Can you understand?"

Loder stepped back.  Without comprehending, he felt suddenly
and strangely at a loss.  Something in her face struck him
silent and perplexed.  It seemed that without preparation he
had stepped upon dangerous ground.  With an undefined
apprehension he waited, looking at her.

"I can't explain it," she went on with nervous haste, "I can't
give any reasons, but quite suddenly the--the farce has grown
unbearable.  I used not to think--used not even to care--but
suddenly things have changed--or I have changed."  She paused,
confused and distressed.  "Why should it be?  Why should
things change?"  She asked the question sharp.  ly, as if in
appeal against her own incredulity.

Loder turned aside.  He was afraid of the triumph, volcanic
and irrepressible, that her admission roused.

"Why?" she said again.

He turned slowly back.  "You forget that I'm not a magician,"
he said, gently.  "I hardly know what you are speaking of."

For a moment she was silent, but in that moment her eyes
spoke.  Pain, distress, pride, all strove for expression; then
at last her lips parted.

"Do you say that in seriousness?" she asked.

It was no moment for fencing, and Loder knew it.  "In
seriousness," he replied, shortly.

"Then I shall speak seriously, too."  Her voice shook slightly
and the color came back into her face, but the hand on the arm
of the chair ceased to tremble.  "For more than four years I
have known that you take drugs--for more than four years I
have acquiesced in your deceptions--in your meannesses--"

There was an instant's silence.  Then Loder stepped forward.

"You knew--for four years?" he said, very slowly.  For the
first time that night he remembered Chilcote and forgot
himself.

Eve lifted her head with a quick gesture--as if, in flinging
off discretion and silence, she appreciated to the full the
new relief of speech.

"Yes, I knew.  Perhaps I should have spoken when I first
surprised the secret, but it's all so past that it's useless
to speculate now.  It was fate, I suppose.  I was very young,
you were very unapproachable, and--and we had no love to make
the way easy."  For a second her glance faltered and she
looked away.  "A woman's--a girl's--disillusioning is a very
sad comedy--it should never have an audience."  She laughed a
little bitterly as she looked back again.  "I saw all the
deceits, all the subterfuges, all the--lies."  She said the
word deliberately, meeting his eyes.

Again he thought of Chilcote, but his face paled.

"I saw it all.  I lived with it all till I grew hard and
indifferent--till I acquiesced in your 'nerves' as readily as
the rest of the world that hadn't suspected and didn't know."
Again she laughed nervously.  "And I thought the indifference
would last forever.  If one lives in a groove for years, one
gets frozen up; I never felt more frozen than on the night Mr.
Fraide spoke to me of you--asked me to use my influence; then,
on that night--"

"Yes.  On that night?"  Loder's voice was tense.

But her excitement had suddenly fallen.  Whether his glance
had quelled it or whether the force of her feelings had worked
itself out it was impossible to say, but her eyes had lost
their resolution.  She stood hesitating for a moment, then she
turned and moved to the mantel-piece.

"That night you found me--changed?"  Loder was insistent.

"Changed--and yet not changed."  She spoke reluctantly, with
averted head.

"And what did you think?"

Again she was silent; then again a faint excitement tinged her
cheeks.

"I thought--" she began.  "It seemed--"  Once more she paused,
hampered by her own uncertainty, her own sense of puzzling
incongruity.  "I don't know why I speak like this," she went
on at last, as if in justification of herself, "or why I want
to speak.  But a feeling--an extraordinary, incomprehensible
feeling seems to urge me on.  The same feeling that came to me
on the day we had tea together--the feeling that made me--that
almost made me believe--"

"Believe what?"  The words escaped him without volition.

At sound of his voice she turned.  "Believe that a miracle had
happened," she said--"that you had found strength--had freed
yourself."

"From morphia?"

"From morphia."

In the silence that followed, Loder lived through a century of
suggestion and indecision.  His first feeling was for himself,
but his first clear thought was for Chilcote and their
compact.  He stood, metaphorically, on a stone in the middle
of a stream, balancing on one foot, then the other; looking to
the right bank, then to the left.  At last, as it always did,
inspiration came to him slowly.  This lot was known as the
_Vaulted Chamber_, and formed a portion of the south aisle of the
nave which had been cut off from the rest of the building, and to
which access was given by a stone staircase outside the church and
a doorway in the wall by the nave.

Very few traces of the old monastic buildings are to be found,
for when the neighbouring ground has been levelled at various
times large quantities of stone have been dug up from the old
foundations, and utilised partly in constructing boundary walls,
partly in repairs to the building.

The Abbey Gateway, which is well worth inspection, is
Perpendicular work, and is in surprisingly good repair,
mainly owing to the fact that for many years it was in private
hands.

It stands very solid and square, and looks formidable with
its battlements, but the view through the open doorway is
very fine--the foliage on the trees beyond showing up the
stonework. The work in the arches is good, and the gargoyles
are worthy of notice.

The gateway was restored in 1849-50, and the gates are of about the
same date.

In the cloister there are traces at the west of the outer parlour
of the monks, and the size of the cloisters is clearly seen to have
been eighty feet.

Of the place of this glorious Abbey in our own English history much
might be written, and in fact it has been a difficult task to steer
a course which, while avoiding too much history, should show that
the history is there.

In all the great events of history down to the end of the
fifteenth century Tewkesbury Abbey has its place, and like the
Abbey of St.

Peter at Westminster and the Cathedrals at Canterbury and at
Winchester, is in every respect a representative structure.

"It represents all the greatest influences in our
social development, it directly embodies in its memories
both the Crown, at the time when the Crown was a _primum
mobile_ in politics, and all the estates of the realm.

It shows the Church as the keystone in which the various
thrusts of those contending masses met and balanced each
other. It exhibits in the Church patron the official link
between things spiritual and temporal. Its great lay potentates,
Saxon or Norman, either deduce their lineage from royal
blood, or at once mix their own with it, and renew again
and again their touch of royalty by fresh inter-marriages until
the pedigree is absorbed into that of the reigning or rival
sovereign. The House, after blazoning a leading name, often
_the_ leading name of each successive period, after scoring
repeated Plantagenet affinities, at length shares the
internecine havoc of the York and Lancaster factions, and its
last scions which survived that havoc are cut off on the
scaffold for the crime of being too near the throne. But the
almost princely rank of these founders, patrons, and
benefactors is their least claim to historical remembrance.
They are always to be found grouped in the very focus where
the light of history falls strongest, men of the foremost mark for
high trust and safe counsel for foreign strife, or civil broil"
(_Hayman_).

[Illustration: _Photo. R.W. Dugdale._ THE ABBEY GATEWAY.]
Thus in the four centuries after the Conquest we find
Fitz-Hamon, the second founder, connected by marriage with the
great Norman soldier.

In the civil wars of Stephen, Robert Earl of Gloucester and Lord
of Tewkesbury, and his half-sister, Maud or Matilda, played the
parts we know so well.

Again, Gilbert de Clare, who is buried in the Abbey, was one
of the chief signatories of Magna Charta. The last of the
three Gilberts de Clare fell at Bannockburn in 1314, at the
age of twenty-three. The heiress of the latter married a
Despenser, a family closely connected with Tewkesbury, two prominent
members of which, viz., the favoured ministers of Edward II., will
be remembered as by-words in history.

Sir Guy de Brien, the valiant standard-bearer of Edward III.,
was the second husband of the widow of the fifth Lord Despenser,
and, with her, helped to rebuild the choir, in the ambulatory of
which his splendid monument is still to be seen.

The Despensers in turn passed away, the last heiress marrying
in succession two cousins, each named Richard Beauchamp.
Of her second marriage were born two children--a son, who married
the sister of Warwick the king-maker, and a daughter, who became
the wife of the Earl of Warwick himself.

The king-maker's two daughters were unfortunate in their
husbands, one of them having been married to the luckless Duke
of Clarence, and the other to the young Prince Edward, who
fell in 1471 at the battle of Tewkesbury. Of these noble
patrons of the Abbey from the first Tewkesbury De Clare to
the time of the ill-fated Duke of Clarence, all save two,
_i.e._, the second Richard Beauchamp and the great
king-maker, Richard Neville, who are both buried at Warwick, found
their last resting-place in Tewkesbury.

[Illustration: TILE SHOWING THE ARMS OF FITZ-HAMON AND THE
ABBEY IMPALED.]
[Illustration: _Photo. D. Gwynne._ TEWKESBURY ABBEY, FROM
THE NORTH.]
FOOTNOTES:

[1] The original stone is in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford.

[2] Mr. Blunt, in his "Tewkesbury and its Associations," assigns
the northernmost chapel to St. James, and the one between
it and the choir aisle to St. Nicholas, but in his plan
he reverses them. The plan in the _Builder_ of December, 1894,
follows Mr. Blunt's plan in so naming the two chapels. Some
have thought the present Northern Chapel to be that dedicated
to St. Eustachius.

CHAPTER II.

THE EXTERIOR.

One of the most characteristic views of the exterior is to be got
from the iron gates which give admission to the churchyard.

The view thus obtained presents to us, with the exception of the
windows and the pinnacles on the tower, features almost
entirely Norman.

As it is impossible to make a complete circuit of the church,
it is as well to begin at the north transept. Here a wall
will be found projecting from the north-east corner, of which
the western face is in a very dilapidated condition. This
wall contains a good Early English pointed arch, which
is now filled up with stonework and contains a modern window.
At the sides of the arch are Purbeck marble shafts with
a central shaft of the same, which divides it into two subordinate
arches, with an opening in the spandril between them.

The base of the dividing shaft is a block of marble, curiously
carved, representing four cats playing round the column. Each
of the cats has in its mouth the tail of the cat immediately
in front.

On each side are the remains of a smaller recessed arch,
and the only portion of the north wall which is still standing
contains one bay of a trefoil-headed arcading which formerly
was carried round the walls of this chapel.

On the north wall of the transept the four bays of the vaulted
roof are discernible, and a fine Early English doorway in the
wall (lately restored) used to give admission to the main
building. Originally, when the church was perfect, this was
an open arch. At the last restoration a wall was built up
inside, so that the arch might be left clear.

This chapel can hardly have been the one mentioned on p. 13,
which was dedicated to St. Eustachius, and was consecrated
in 1246 by Prior Henry de Banbury. It is much more
likely to have been the nave of the Early English Lady
Chapel, of which the enclosed chapel to the east was the
choir. Bristol Cathedral has its elder Lady Chapel in a
 similar position, though it was no doubt originally quite
detached from the main building. The corner
buttress at the north-west angle of the north transept was
erected about the year 1720, and there is a corresponding
support to the south transept at its south-west angle.

The clerestory on this north side of the nave has a Norman
arcade, supported on short shafts, which extends from the
tower to the west front. The insertion of the later windows,
which presumably were enlarged when the nave was vaulted,
has destroyed the regularity of the arcading.

A flying buttress of very slight proportions will be seen on
the north side between the north transept and the north
porch.

=North Porch.=--For a porch of Norman construction this is of
unusual dimensions, measuring 24 feet by 20 feet and 39 feet high.

It is extremely simple in character inside and out. The roof
is a plain barrel vault of stone.

Both the internal and the external doorway have a circular arch
composed of a series of mouldings supported by shafting,
just as in the arch of the great west window.

Over the outside door of the porch stood an image of the Virgin
Mary with the infant Christ, typical of the Incarnation, but it has
suffered much at the hands of would-be zealots.

Over the porch is a room or parvise, very difficult of access
and badly lighted.

This north porch was in all probability built on to the church
soon after the completion of the rest of the Norman building,
and this may account for the difficult means of access.

Between the porch and the west end there are traces of some
earlier building, abutting on to the north wall of the church.

The iron gates at the main entrance to the churchyard near
the "Bell Hotel" were formerly mounted in the external
doorway of the porch.
They were given to the church by Lord Gage in 1750.

=The Tower.=--This is generally considered to be one of the
finest and most perfect Norman towers in existence. Its
massive size (each side measuring 46 feet) takes off from
its actual height.

It stands well, and is impressive from its proportions and
the simplicity of its ornament. It is 132 feet high from the
ground to the battlements inclusive, and 148 to the top of
the pinnacles. The pinnacles and battlements were added
in 1660, as the inscription on the north-west pinnacle testifies.

They were restored in 1825.

[Illustration: _Photo. D. Gwynne._ THE ABBEY, FROM THE SOUTH.]

As to what was there before 1660 one can only conjecture, but
it had been undoubtedly damaged by the fall of the wooden
spire covered with lead, which event occurred on Easter Day, 1559.

From whichever point of the compass it be studied, there is
ever a different charm displayed, and the charm varies
according to the light that plays upon the time-honoured
handiwork of the Norman builders.
The tower looks equally well from the north-west end of the
churchyard, seen through the trees, from the extreme
west, and from the open ground to the south-east, where
the eye can also take in the graceful battlementing
of the choir. Perhaps the best view of the tower and the
building generally is that obtainable from the Gloucester
road, just as one turns the last corner coming into Tewkesbury.

The tower is supported by four piers, which, as will be seen
from an inspection of the plan, are very massive. The two
easternmost piers are in plan very similar to the
two corresponding piers in Gloucester Cathedral.

There are two windows in each side of the lower storey or base,
immediately over the roofs of the nave and transepts, and
between the windows is the stone ridge or wall-plate which
indicates the pitch of the earlier roof. On three sides
of the tower the dripstone is almost perfect.

The next stage or storey has an arcade with two lights in each side
of the tower.

The third stage has a narrower intersecting arcade of great
beauty and delicacy, with a curious effect produced by the warm
colouring of some of the stones.[3]
In the topmost stage there is another range of arcades
and columns.

=The West Front.=--The chief feature in this front is the noble
recessed arch, 65 feet high and 34 feet wide.

There are seven columns on each side of the arch, one being
partially concealed by the masonry of the Debased Perpendicular
window which was inserted originally to give light to the nave.

Portions of the seventh shaft have been, however, exposed for
inspection.

There is one slight defect in this unique west front as
it now is, viz., that apart from the window, the arch is on
too large a scale for the size of the front, or, as Dean
Spence puts it (he himself is quoting from some other writer), "As
this noble arch stands at present, it is extremely beautiful in
itself, but it has an incomplete appearance, seeming to want a
_raison d'être_, and being too large a jewel for its setting

."[4] Exactly the same may be said of the window, though its
excessive size will not be felt so much from the outside as from
the inside of the church, where the low vaulting of the nave further
accentuates the excessive size of the window.

As was the case at Gloucester, larger western towers were
originally contemplated to contain the bells, and there are
indications of this in the rough stonework in the clerestory on the
south side, evidently designed to carry a tower 22 feet square.

The towers in the west front at Southwell are an example of
this design carried out. When it was decided to build smaller
towers, the bell tower or campanile (which is shown on p. 17)
was built.

Later again the lantern or open part of the interior of the tower
was vaulted over (_vide_ p. 74), and the bells were hung in the
great central tower.

The campanile was then diverted to other uses. In later times
it was used as a prison for several years, but having become
structurally unsafe, was demolished in 1817.

It would be interesting to know the original scheme of windows
in this west front. There is a trace of the original Norman
doorway inside the present doorway, and it is supposed that the
original window was either a large round window, with possibly one
or two tiers of round-headed lights below.

Later, a larger window, probably of fourteenth century work, was
inserted, which lasted till it was blown into the church in 1661.

The present window, which was built in 1686, may probably have
been an attempt to follow the lines of the previous window.

At either side of the large arch is a Decorated window of
two lights.

The stonework of the towers, above the point where the arch
springs, is decorated with a Norman arcading in two tiers.

They are finished by two partly Norman turrets, with later
pinnacles and spires.

=The South Side.

=--This side has a blank appearance owing to the total disappearance
of the claustral and conventual buildings, all of which were "deemed
to be superfluous."

There are traces on the south wall of the "outer parlour,"
and there is blocked up into it a doorway from the west end of the
south aisle of the nave.

Traces are there, too, of Norman work on the wall, which prove
that the Norman cloisters were of the same extent and size as those
of Perpendicular times.

=The Cloisters.=--These were of two periods of Perpendicular
work, and though smaller than those at Gloucester (80 feet
as compared with 148 feet) seem to have been enriched with panelling
and arcading in every way as fine, judging from the stone which
shows the spring of the arches near the cloister door.

The doorway from the cloister to the south aisle is a beautiful
piece of fifteenth century work.

It consists of a low pointed arch, struck from two
centres, in the hollow moulding of which are canopies. Below
are pedestals for figures.

At the top the arch is embattled, and above it are niches,
seven in all, with pedestals and canopies, richly ornamented
and carved. On either side, over the canopy is an angel bearing
a plain shield. This doorway was filled with stonework up to
1892, and had been so filled for many years, but has since
undergone restoration of a very careful kind. The oak door is
new, and is an example of very florid work executed with the
great mechanical precision which now characterises modern
wood-carving. One bay of the cloister has been vaulted to protect
the doorway; and the wall arcade has been restored, at the expense
of the Freemasons of the county.

On the south front of the south transept there are to be
seen traces of a building of the same width, through
which there were means of communication with the church.
The wall of this south transept has been considerably strengthened
since the Dissolution.

Separated from the south transept by a slype or passage, was the
Chapter House, of which nothing is known beyond the fact that it
was repaved in 1259, and destroyed at the Dissolution with other
buildings on this side.

Over the Chapter House there was a dormitory, also with an
entrance to the church. This entrance has been walled up. There
were stairs giving access to a room built over the apsidal
chapel in the south transept, and also to the transept
itself.

[Illustration: _Photo. R.W. Dugdale._ THE CLOISTER DOORWAY.]

To the east of the south transept a very good view of the choir
and its chapels is to be obtained. The westernmost chapel is
the Norman apsidal chapel, and here the original Norman work
comes to an end as far as the exterior is concerned.

The Norman arcading on the east and west walls will be
noticed, but it has been lately restored.

The chapel (marked Vestry in the plan) has an upper chamber
with two commonplace modern windows in it, the mullions having
been destroyed.

There is a massive buttress attached to the wall of this
chapel, much larger than any of the other exterior
buttresses. It is quite hollow, and is entered from the
interior of the chapel, which is now used as the clergy vestry.

The windows of the choir are elaborately decorated with a crocketed
gable.

The east end of the church[5] and the exterior of the chapels
on the north side of the church are in private gardens,
which unfortunately extend up to the very wall of the church, and
prevent access.

The actual east end now consists of an arch which was formerly
the entrance to the destroyed Lady Chapel, of which nothing
remains but the modern masonry in the arch, now walled up, and
containing a modern window of three lights; and above this is
the original west wall above the vestibule of the Lady Chapel,
with a restored window of four lights.

The parapet of open work which runs round the summit of the apse
is another beautiful feature of the exterior of the eastern part
of the church.

It seems to be formed of stalks from a thorn tree
intertwining in such a way as to form triangular openings.

This parapet or coronet is as much like lacework as it is possible
for stonework to be, and gives to the building a peculiarly
delicate and subtle finish.

A very good exterior view of this east end can be obtained from the
battlement of St.

Faith's Chapel.

The pitch of the roof and the character of the
mouldings can thus be seen.

=The Lady Chapel.=--Nothing is left but the partly concealed
mouldings of the arch in the east wall of the ambulatory
of the choir. On the outside of the east end may be seen
portions of the lofty vaulting--just where it sprang from the
walls--which would indicate that the masonry was very beautiful and
delicate work.

Much uncertainty exists as to the size of the Lady Chapel, though
traces of the foundations have been found for some distance
to the eastward of the present building. Unfortunately the
ground in which the foundations are hidden is private property,
and the chance of a thorough investigation of the site very remote.

Traditionally, the Lady Chapel is said to have been 100
feet long, or about a third of the length of the building.

As he entered the room they ceased to
speak, and all three turned in his direction.

In the first moment he had a vague impression of responding
suitably to Lady Sarah's cordial greeting; but he knew that
immediately and unconsciously his eyes turned to Eve, while a
quick sense of surprise and satisfaction passed through him at
sight of her.  For an instant he wondered how she would mark
his avoidance of her since their last eventful interview; then
instantly he blamed himself for the passing doubt.  For,
before all things, he knew her to be a woman of the world.

He took Fraide's outstretched hand; and again he looked
towards Eve, waiting for her to speak.

She met his glance, but said nothing.  Instead of speaking she
smiled at him--a smile that was far more reassuring than any
words, a smile that in a single second conveyed forgiveness,
approbation, and a warm, almost tender sense of sympathy and
comprehension.  The remembrance of that smile stayed with him
long after they were seated at table; and far into the future
the remembrance of the lunch itself, with its pleasant private
sense of satisfaction, was destined to return to him in
retrospective moments.  The delightful atmosphere of the
Fraides' home life had always been a wonder and an enigma to
him; but on this day he seemed to grasp its meaning by a new
light, as he watched Eve soften under its influence and felt
himself drawn imperceptibly from the position of a speculative
outsider to that of an intimate.  It was a fresh side to the
complex, fascinating life of which Fraide was the master
spirit.

These reflections had grown agreeably familiar to his mind;
the talk, momentarily diverted into social channels, was
quietly drifting back to the inevitable question of the
"situation" that in private moments was never far from their
lips, when the event that was to mark and separate that day
from those that had preceded it was unceremoniously thrust
upon them.

Without announcement or apology, the door was suddenly flung
open and Lakely entered the room.

His face was brimming with excitement, and his eyes flashed.
In the first haste of the entry he failed to see that there
were ladies in the room, And, crossing instantly to Fraide,
laid an open telegram before him.

"This is official, sir," he said.  Then at last he glanced
round the table.

"Lady Sarah!" he exclaimed.  "Can you forgive me?  But I'd
have given a hundred pounds to be the first with this!"  He
glanced back at Fraide.

Lady Sarah rose and stretched out her hand.  "Mr. Lakely," she
said, "I more than understand!"  There was a thrill in her
warm, cordial voice, and her eyes also turned towards her
husband.

Of the whole party, Fraide alone was perfectly calm.  He sat
very still, his small, thin figure erect and dignified, as his
eyes scanned the message that meant so much.

Eve, who had sprung from her seat and passed round the table
at sound of Lakely's news, was leaning over his shoulder,
reading the telegram with him.  At the last word she lifted
her head, her face flushed with excitement.

"How splendid it must be to be a man!" she exclaimed.  And
without premeditation her eyes and Loder's met.


In this manner came the news from Persia, and with it Loder's
definite call.  In the momentary stress of action it was
impossible that any thought of Chilcote could obtrude itself.
Events had followed each other too rapidly, decisive action
had been too much thrust upon him, to allow of hesitation; and
it was in this spirit, under this vigorous pressure, that he
made his attack upon the government on the day that followed
Fraide's luncheon party.

That indefinable attentiveness, that alert sensation of
impending storm.  that is so strong an index of the
parliamentary atmosphere was very keen on that memorable first
of April.  It was obvious in the crowded benches on both sides
of the House--in the oneness of purpose that insensibly made
itself felt through the ranks of the Opposition, and found
definite expression in Fraide's stiff figure and tightly shut
lips--in the unmistakable uneasiness that lay upon the
ministerial benches.

But notwithstanding these indications of battle, the early
portion of the proceedings was unmarked by excitement, being
tinged with the purposeless lack of vitality that had of late
marked all affairs of the Sefborough Ministry; and it was not
until the adjournment of the House for the Easter recess had
at last been moved that the spirit of activity hovering in the
air descended and galvanized the assembly into life.  It was
then, amid a stir of interest, that Loder slowly rose.

Many curious incidents have marked the speech-making annals of
the House of Commons, but it is doubtful whether it has ever
been the lot of a member to hear his own voice raised for the
first time on a subject of vital interest to his party, having
been denied all initial assistance of minor questions asked or
unimportant amendments made.  Of all those gathered together
in the great building on that day, only one man appreciated
the difficulty of Loder's position
--and that man was Loder himself.

He rose slowly and stood silent for a couple of seconds, his
body braced, his fingers touching the sheaf of notes that lay
in front of him.  To the waiting House the silence was
effective.  It might mean over-assurance, or it might mean a
failure of nerve at a critical moment.  Either possibility had
a tinge of piquancy.  Moved by the same impulse, fifty pairs
o  eyes turned upon him with new interest; but up in the
Ladies' Gallery Eve clasped her hands in sudden apprehension;
and Fraide, sitting stiffly in his seat, turned and shot one
swift glance at the man on whom, against prudence and
precedent, he had pinned his faith.  The glance was swift but
very searching, and with a characteristic movement of his wiry
shoulders he resumed his position and his usual grave,
attentive attitude.  At the same moment Loder lifted his head
and began to speak.

Here at the outset his inexperience met him.  His voice,
pitched too low, only reached those directly near him.  It was
a moment of great strain.  Eve, listening intently, drew a
long breath of suspense and let her fingers drop apart; the
sceptical, watchful eyes that faced him, line upon line,
seemed to flash and brighten with critical interest; only
Fraide made no change of expression.  He sat placid, serious,
attentive, with the shadow of a smile behind his eyes.

Again Loder paused, but this time the pause was shorter.  The
ordeal he had dreaded and waited for was passed and he saw his
way clearly.  With the old movement of the shoulders he
straightened himself and once more began to speak.  This time
his voice rang quietly true and commanding across the floor of
the House.

No first step can be really great; it must of necessity
possess more of prophecy than of achievement; nevertheless it
is by the first step that a man marks the value, not only of
his cause, but of himself.  Following broadly on the lines
that tradition has laid down for the Conservative orator,
Loder disguised rather than displayed the vein of strong,
persuasive eloquence that was his natural gift.  The occasion
that might possibly justify such a display of individuality
might lie with the future, but it had no application to the
present.  For the moment his duty was to voice his party
sentiments with as much lucidity, as much logic, and as much
calm conviction as lay within his capacity.

Standing quietly in Chilcote's place, he was conscious with a
deep sense of gravity of the peculiarity of his position; and
perhaps it was this unconscious and unstudied seriousness that
lent him the tone of weight and judgment so essential to the
cause he had in hand.  It has always been difficult to arouse
the interest of the House on matters of British policy in
Persia.  Once aroused, it may, it is true, reach fever heat
with remarkable rapidity, but the introductory stages offer
that worst danger to the earnest speaker--the dread of an
apathetic audience.  But from this consideration Loder, by his
sharp consciousness of personal difficulties, was given
immunity.

Pitching his voice in that quietly masterful tone that beyond
all others compels attention, he took up his subject and dealt
with it with dispassionate force.  With great skill he touched
on the steady southward advance of Russia into Persian
territory from the distant days when, by a curious irony of
fate, Russian and British enterprise combined to make entry
into the country under the sanction of the Grand-Duke of
Moscovy, to the present hour, when this great power of Russia
--long since alienated by interests and desires from her former
co-operator--had taken a step which in the eyes of every
thinking man must possess a deep significance.  With quiet
persistence he pointed out the peculiar position of Meshed in
the distant province of Khorasan; its vast distance from the
Persian Gulf, round which British interests and influence
centre, and the consequently alarming position of hundreds of
traders who, in the security of British sovereignty, are
fighting their way upward from India, from Afghanistan, even
from England herself.

Following up his point, he dilated on these subjects of the
British crown who, cut off from adequate assistance, can only
turn in personal or commercial peril to the protective power
of the nearest consulate.  Then, quietly demanding the
attention of his hearers, he marshalled fact after fact to
demonstrate the isolation and inadequacy of a consulate so
situated; the all but arbitrary power of Russia, who in her
new occupation of Meshed had only two considerations to
withhold her from open aggression--the knowledge of England as
a very considerable but also a very distant power; the
knowledge of Persia as an imminent but wholly impotent factor
in the case.

Having stated his opinions, he reverted to the motive of his
speech--his desire to put forward a strong protest against the
adjournment of the House without an assurance from the
government that immediate measures would be taken to safeguard
British interests in Meshed and throughout the province of
Khorasan.


The immediate outcome of Loder's speech was all that his party
had desired.  The effect on the House had been marked; and
when, no satisfactory response coming to his demand, he had in
still more resolute and insistent terms called for a division
on the motion for adjournment, the result had been an
appreciable fall in the government majority.

To Loder himself, the realization that he had at last
vindicated and justified himself by individual action had a
peculiar effect.  His position had been altered in one
remarkable particular.  Before this day he alone had known
himself to be strong; now the knowledge was shared by others
and he was human enough to be susceptible to the change.

The first appreciation of it came immediately after the
excitement of the division, when Fraide, singling him out,
took his arm and pressed it affectionately.

"My dear Chilcote," he said, "we are all proud of you!" Then,
looking up into his face, he added, in a graver tone, "But
keep your mind upon the future; never be blinded by the
present--however bright it seems."

At the touch of his hand, at the spontaneous approval of his
first words, Loder's pride thrilled, and in a vehement rush of
ambition his senses answered to the praise.  Then, as Fraide
in all unconsciousness added his second sentence, the hot glow
of feeling suddenly chilled.  In a sweep of intuitive reaction
the meaning and the danger of his falsely real position
extinguished his excitement and turned his triumph cold.  With
an involuntary gesture he withdrew his arm.

"You're very good, sir," he said.  "And you're very right.  We
never should forget that there is--a future."

The old man glanced up, surprised by the tone.

"Quite so, Chilcote," he said, kindly.  "But we only advise
those in whom we believe to look towards it.  Shall we find my
wife?  I know she will want to bear you home with us."

But Loder's joy in himself and his achievement had dropped
from him.  He shrank suddenly from Lady Sarah's
congratulations and Eve's warm, silent approbation.

"Thanks, sir," he said, "but I don't feel fit for society.  A
touch of my--nerves, I suppose."  He laughed shortly.  "But do
you mind saying to Eve that I hope I have--satisfied her?" he
added this as if in half-reluctant after-thought.  Then, with
a short pressure of Fraide's hand, he turned, evading the many
groups that waited to claim him, and passed out of the House
alone.

Hailing a cab, he drove to Grosvenor Square.  All the
exaltation of an hour ago had turned to ashes.  His excitement
had found its culmination in a sense of futility and
premonition.

He met no one in the hall or on the stairs of Chilcote's
house, and on entering the study he found that also deserted.
Greening had been among the most absorbed of those who had
listened to his speech.  Passing at once into the room, he
crossed as if by instinct to the desk, and there halted.  On
the top of some unopened letters lay the significant yellow
envelope of a telegram--the telegram that in an unformed,
subconscious way had sprung to his expectation on the moment
of Fraide's congratulation.

Very quietly he picked it up, opened and read it, and, with
the automatic caution that had become habitual, carried it
across the room and dropped it in the fire.  This done, he
returned to the desk, read the letters that awaited Chilcote,
and, scribbling the necessary notes upon the margins, left
them in readiness for Greening.  Then, moving with the same
quiet suppression, he passed from the room, down the stairs,
and out into the street by the way he had come.


XX


On the fifth day after the momentous 1st of April on which he
had recalled Loder and resumed his own life Chilcote left his
house and walked towards Bond Street.  Though the morning was
clear and the air almost warm for the time of year, he was
buttoned into a long overcoat and was wearing a muffler and a
pair of doeskin gloves.  As he passed along the street he kept
close to the house fronts to avoid the sun that was everywhere
stirring the winterbound town, like a suffusion of young blood
through old veins.  He avoided the warmth because in this
instance warmth meant light, but as he moved he shivered
slightly from time to time with the haunting, permeating cold
that of late had become his persistent shadow.

He was ill at case as he hurried forward.  With each
succeeding day of the old life the new annoyances, the new
obligations became more hampering.  Before his compact with
Loder this old life had been a net about his feet; now the
meshes seemed to have narrowed, the net itself to have spread
till it smothered his whole being.  His own household--his own
rooms, even--offered no sanctuary.  The presence of another
personality tinged the atmosphere.  It was preposterous, but
it was undeniable.  The lay figure that he had set in his
place had proved to be flesh and blood--had usurped his life,
his position, his very personality, by sheer right of
strength.  As he walked along Bond Street in the first
sunshine of the year, jostled by the well-dressed crowd, he
felt a pariah.

He revolted at the new order of things, but the revolt was a
silent one-the iron of expediency had entered into his soul.
He dared not jeopardize Loder's position, because he dared not
dispense with Loder.  The door that guarded his vice drew him
more resistlessly with every indulgence, and Loder's was the
voice that called the "Open Sesame!"

He walked on aimlessly.  He had been but five days at home,
and already the quiet, grass-grown court of Clifford's Inn,
the bare staircase, the comfortless privacy of Loder's rooms
seemed a haven of refuge.  The speed with which this hunger
had returned frightened him.

He walked forward rapidly and without encountering a check.
Then, suddenly, the spell was broken.  From the slowly moving,
brilliantly dressed throng of people some one called him by
his name; and turning he saw Lillian Astrupp.

She was stepping from the door of a jeweller's, and as he
turned she paused, holding out her hand.

"The very person I would have wished to see!" she exclaimed.
"Where have you been these hundred years?  I've heard of
nobody but you since you've turned politician and ceased to be
a mere member of Parliament!"  She laughed softly.  The laugh
suited the light spring air, as she herself suited the
pleasant, superficial scene.

He took her hand and held it, while his eyes travelled from
her delicate face to her pale cloth gown, from her soft furs
to the bunch of roses fastened in her muff, The sight of her
was a curious relief.  Her cool, slim fingers were so casual,
yet so clinging, her voice and her presence were so redolent
of easy, artificial things.

"How well you look!" he said, involuntarily.

Again she laughed.  "That's my prerogative," she responded,
lightly.  "But I was serious in being glad to see you.
Sarcastic people are always so intuitive.  I'm looking for
some one with intuition."

Chilcote glanced up.  "Extravagant again?" he said, dryly.

She smiled at him sweetly.  "Jack!" she murmured with slow
reproach.

Chilcote laughed quickly.  "I understand.  You've changed your
Minister of Finance.  I'm wanted in some other direction."

This time her reproach was expressed by a glance.  "You are
always wanted," she said.

The words seemed to rouse him again to the shadowy
self-distrust that the sight of her had lifted.

"It's--it's delightful to meet you like this," he began, "and
I wish the meeting wasn't momentary.  But I'm--I'm rather
pressed for time.  You must let me come round one afternoon
--or evening, when you're alone."  He fumbled for a moment
with the collar of his coat, and glanced furtively upward
towards Oxford Street.

But again Lillian smiled--this time to herself.  If she
understood anything on earth it was Chilcote and his moods.

"If one may be careless of anything, Jack," she said, lightly,
"surely it's of time.  I can imagine being pressed for
anything else in the world.  If it's an appointment you're
worrying about, a motor goes ever so much faster than a cab--"
She looked at him tentatively, her head slightly on one side,
her muff raised till the roses and some of the soft fur
touched her cheek.

She looked very charming and very persuasive as Chilcote
glanced back.  Again she seemed to represent a respite
--something graceful and subtle in a world of oppressive
obligations.  His eyes strayed from her figure to the smart
motor-car drawn up beside the curb.

She saw the glance.  "Ever so much quicker," she insinuated;
and, smiling again, she stepped forward from the door of the
shop.  After a second's indecision Chilcote followed her.

The waiting car had three seats--one in front for the
chauffeur, two vis-a-vis at the back, offering pleasant
possibilities of a tete-a-tete.

"The Park--and drive slowly," Lillian ordered, as she stepped
inside, motioning Chilcote to the seat opposite.

They moved up Bond Street smoothly and rapidly.  Lillian was
absorbed in the passing traffic until the Marble Arch was
reached; then, as they glided through the big gates, she
looked across at her companion.  He had turned up the collar
of his coat, though the wind was scarcely perceptible, and
buried, himself in it to the ears.

"It is extraordinary!" she exclaimed, suddenly, as her eyes
rested on his face.  It was seldom that she felt drawn to
exclamation.  She was usually too indolent to show surprise.
But now the feeling was called forth before she was aware.

Chilcote looked up.  "What's extraordinary?" he said,
sensitively.

She leaned forward for an instant and touched his hand.

"Bear!" she said, teasingly.  "Did I rub your fur the wrong
way?"  Then, seeing his expression, she tactfully changed her
tone.  "I'll explain.  It was the same thing that struck me
the night of Blanche's party--when you looked at me over
Leonard Kaine's head.  You remember?"  She glanced away from
him across the Park to where the grass was already showing
greener.

Chilcote felt ill at ease.  Again he put his hand to his coat
collar.

"Oh yes," he said, hastily--"yes."  He wished now that he had
questioned Loder more closely on the proceedings of that
party.  It seemed to him, on looking back, that Loder had
mentioned nothing on the day of their last exchange but the
political complications that absorbed his mind.

"I couldn't explain then," Lillian went on.  "I couldn't
explain before a crowd of people that it wasn't your dark head
showing over Leonard's red one that surprised me, but the most
wonderful, the most extraordinary likeness--" She paused.

The car was moving slower; there was a delight in the easy
motion through the fresh, early air.  But Chilcote's
uneasiness had been aroused.  He no longer felt soothed.

"What likeness?" he asked, sharply.

She turned to him easily.  "Oh, a likeness I have noticed
before," she said.  "A likeness that always seemed strange,
but that suddenly became incredible at Blanche's party."

He moved quickly.  "Likenesses are an illusion," he said, "a
mere imagination of the brain!"  His manner was short; his
annoyance seemingly out of all proportion to its cause.
Lillian looked at him afresh in slightly interested surprise.

"Yet not so very long ago, you yourself--" she began.

"Nonsense!" he broke in.  "I've always denied likenesses.
Such things don't really exist.  Likeness-seeing is purely an
individual matter--a preconception."  He spoke fast; he was
uneasy under the cool scrutiny of her green eyes.  And with a
sharp attempt at self-control and reassurance he altered his
voice.  "After all, we're being very stupid!" he exclaimed.
"We're worrying over something that doesn't exist."

Lillian was still lazily interested.  To her own belief, she
had seen Chilcote last on the night of her sister's reception.
Then she had been too preoccupied to notice either his manner
or his health, though superficially it had lingered in her
mind that he had seemed unusually reliant, unusually well on
that night.  A remembrance of the impression came to her now
as she studied his face, upon which imperceptibly and yet
relentlessly his vice was setting its mark--in the dull
restlessness of eye, the unhealthy sallowness of skin.

Some shred of her thought, some suggestion of the comparison
running through her mind, must have shown in her face, for
Chilcote altered his position with a touch of uneasiness.  He
glanced away across the long sweep of tan-covered drive
stretching between the trees; then he glanced furtively back.

"By-the-way," he said, quickly, "you wanted me for something?"
The memory of her earlier suggestion came as a sudden boon.

She lifted her muff again and smelled her roses thoughtfully.
"Oh, it was nothing, really," she said.  "You sarcastic people
give very shrewd suggestions sometimes, and I've been rather
wanting a suggestion on an--an adventure that I've had." She
looked down at her flowers with a charmingly attentive air.

But Chilcote's restlessness had increased.  Looking up, she
suddenly caught the expression, and her own face changed.

"My dear Jack," she said, softly, "what a bore I am!  Let's
forget tedious things--and enjoy ourselves."  She leaned
towards him caressingly with an air of concern and reproach.

The action was not without effect.  Her soothing voice, her
smile, her almost affectionate gesture, each carried weight.
With a swift return of assurance he responded to her tone.

"Right!" he said.  "Right!  We will enjoy ourselves!"  He
laughed quickly, and again with a conscious movement lifted
his hand to his muffler.

"Then we'll postpone the advice?" Lillian laughed, too.

"Yes.  Right!  We'll postpone it."  The word pleased him and
he caught at it.  "We won't bother about it now, but we won't
shelve it altogether.  We'll postpone it."

"Exactly." She settled herself more comfortably.  "You'll dine
with me one night--and we can talk it out then.  I see so
little of you nowadays," she added, in a lower voice.

"My dear girl, you're unfair!" Chilcote's spirits had risen;
he spoke rapidly, almost pleasantly.  "It isn't I who keep
away--it's the stupid affairs of the world that keep me.  I'd
be with you every hour of the twelve if I had my way."

She looked up at the bare trees.  Her expression was a
delightful mixture of amusement, satisfaction, and scepticism.
"Then you will dine?" she said at last.

"Certainly."  His reaction to high spirits carried him
forward.

"How nice!  Shall we fix a day?"

"A day?  Yes.  Yes--if you like."  He hesitated for an
instant, then again the impulse of the previous moment
dominated his other feeling.  "Yes," he said, quickly.  "Yes.
After all, why not fix it now?"  With a sudden inclination
towards amiability he opened his overcoat, thrust his hand
into an inner pocket, and drew out his engagement-book--the
same long, narrow book fitted with two pencils that Loder had
scanned so interestedly on his first morning at Grosvenor
Square.  He opened it, turning the pages rapidly.  "What day
shall it be?  Thursday's full--and Friday--and Saturday.  What
a bore!" He still talked fast.

Lillian leaned across.  "What a sweet book!" she said.  "But
why the blue crosses?"  She touched one of the pages with her
gloved finger.

Chilcote jerked the book, then laughed with a touch of
embarrassment.  "Oh, the crosses?  Merely to remind me that
certain 'appointments must be kept.  You know my beastly
memory!  But what about the day?  Shall we fix the day?"  His
voice was in control, but mentally her trivial question had
disturbed and jarred him.  "What day shall we say?" he
repeated.  "Monday in next week?"

Lillian glanced up with a faint exclamation of disappointment.
"How horribly faraway!"  She spoke with engaging petulance,
and, leaning forward afresh, drew the book from Chilcote's
hand.  "What about to-morrow?" she exclaimed, turning back a
page.  "Why not to-morrow?  I knew I saw a blank space."

"To-morrow!  Oh, I--I--"  He stopped.          i

"Jack!" Her voice dropped.  It was true that she desired
Chilcote's opinion on her adventure, for Chilcote's opinion on
men and manners had a certain bitter shrewdness; but the
exercise of her own power added a point to the desire.  If the
matter had ended with the gain or loss of a tete-a-tete with
him, it is probable that, whatever its utility, she would not
have pressed it, but the underlying motive was the stronger.
Chilcote had been a satellite for years, and it was unpleasant
that any satellite should drop away into space.

"Jack!" she said again, in a lower and still more effective
tone; and, lifting her muff, she buried her face in her
flowers.  "I suppose I shall have to dine and go to a
music-hall with Leonard--or stay at home by myself," she
murmured, looking out across the trees.

Again Chilcote glanced over the long, tan-strewn ride.  They
had made the full circuit of the park.

"It's tiresome being by one's self," she murmured.

For a while he was irresponsive, then slowly his eyes returned
to her face.  He watched her for a second, and, leaning
quickly towards her, he took his book and scribbled something
in the vacant space.

She watched him interestedly; her face lighted up, and she
laid aside her muff.

"Dear Jack!" she said.  "How very sweet of you!"

Then, as he held the book towards her, her face fell.  "Dine
33 Cadogan Gardens, 8 o'c.  Talk with L.," she read.  "Why,
you've forgotten the essential thing!"

He looked up.  "The essential thing?"

She smiled.  "The blue cross," she said.  "Isn't it worth even
a little one?"

The tone was very soft.  Chilcote yielded.

"You have the blue pencil," he said, in sudden response to her
mood.

She glanced up in quiet pleasure at her Success, and, with a
charming affectation of seriousness, marked the engagement
with a big cross.  At the same moment the car slackened speed,
as the chauffeur waited for further orders.

Lillian shut the engagement-book and handed it back.  "Where
can I drop you?" she asked.  "At the club?"

The question recalled him to a sense of present things.  He
thrust the book into his pocket and glanced about him.

They had paused by Hyde Park corner.  The crowd of horses and
carriages had thinned as the hour of lunch drew near, and the
wide roadway of the park had an air of added space.  The
suggested loneliness affected him.  The tall trees, still
bereft of leaves, and the colossal gateway incomprehensively
stirred the sense of mental panic that sometimes seized him in
face of vastness of space or of architecture.  In one moment,
Lillian, the appointment he had just made, the manner of its
making--all left him.  The world was filled with his own
personality, his own immediate inclinations.

"Don't bother about me!" he said, quickly.  "I can get out
here.  You've been very good.  It's been a delightful
morning."  With a hurried pressure of her fingers he rose and
stepped from the car.

Reaching the ground, he paused for a moment and raised his
hat; then, without a second glance, he turned and walked
rapidly away.

Lillian sat watching him meditatively.  She saw him pass
through the gateway, saw him hail a hansom, then she
remembered the waiting chauffeur.


XXI


On the same day that Chilcote had parted with Lillian--but at
three o'clock in the afternoon--Loder, dressed in Chilcote's
clothes and with Chilcote's heavy overcoat slung over his arm,
walked from Fleet Street to Grosvenor Square.  He walked
steadily, neither slowly nor yet fast.  The elation of his
last journey over the same ground was tempered by feelings he
could not satisfactorily bracket even to himself.  There was
less of vehement elation and more of matured determination in
his gait and bearing than there had been on that night, though
the incidents of which they were the outcome were very
complex.

On reaching Chilcote's house he passed up-stairs; but, still
following the routine of his previous return, he did not halt
at Chilcote's door, but moved onward towards Eve's
sitting-room and there paused.

In that pause his numberless irregular thoughts fused into
one.

He had the same undefined sense of standing upon sacred ground
that had touched him on the previous occasion, but the outcome
of the sensation was different.  This time he raised his hand
almost immediately and tapped on the door.

He waited, but no voice responded to his knock.  With a sense
of disappointment he knocked again; then, pressing his
determination still further, he turned the handle and entered
the room.

No private room is without meaning--whether trivial or the
reverse.  In a room, perhaps more even than in speech, in
look, or in work, does the impress of the individual make
itself felt.  There, on the wax of outer things, the inner
self imprints its seal-enforces its fleeting claim to separate
individuality.  This thought, with its arresting interest,
made Loder walk slowly, almost seriously, half-way across the
room and then pause to study his surroundings.

The room was of medium size--not too large for comfort and not
too small for ample space.  At a first impression it struck
him as unlike any anticipation of a woman's sanctum.  The
walls panelled in dark wood; the richly bound books; the
beautifully designed bronze ornaments; even the flowers, deep
crimson and violet-blue in tone, had an air of sombre harmony
that was scarcely feminine.  With a strangely pleasant
impression he realized this, and, following his habitual
impulse, moved slowly forward towards the fireplace and there
paused, his elbow resting on the mantel-piece.

He had scarcely settled comfortably into his position,
scarcely entered on his second and more comprehensive study of
the place, than the arrangement of his mind was altered by the
turning of the handle and the opening of the door.

The new-comer was Eve herself.  She was dressed in outdoor
clothes, and walked into the room quickly; then, as Loder had
done, she too paused.

The gesture, so natural and spontaneous, had a peculiar
attraction; as she glanced up at him, her face alight with
inquiry, she seemed extraordinarily much the owner and
designer of her surroundings.  She was framed by them as
naturally and effectively as her eyes and her face were framed
by her black hair.  For one moment he forgot that his presence
demanded explanation; the next she had made explanation
needless.  She had been looking at him intently; now she came
forward slowly.

"John?" she said, half in appeal, half in question.

He took a step towards her.  "Look at me," he said, quietly
and involuntarily.  In the sharp desire to establish himself
in her regard he forgot that her eyes had never left his face.

But the incongruity of the words did not strike her.  "Oh!"
she exclaimed, "I--I believe I _knew_, directly I saw you
here."  The quick ring of life vibrating in her tone surprised
him.  But he had other thoughts more urgent than surprise.

In the five days of banishment just lived through, the need
for a readjustment of his position with regard to her had come
to him forcibly.  The memory of the night when weakness and he
had been at perilously close quarters had returned to him
persistently and uncomfortably, spoiling the remembrance of
his triumph.  It had been well enough to smother the thought
of that night in days of work.  But had the ignoring of it
blotted out the weakness?  Had it not rather thrown it into
bolder relief?  A man strong in his own strength does not turn
his back upon temptation; he faces and quells it.  In the
solitary days in Clifford's Inn, in the solitary night-hours
spent in tramping the city streets, this had been the
conviction that had recurred again and again, this the problem
to which, after much consideration, he had found a solution
--satisfactory at least to himself.  When next Chilcote called
him--It was notable that he had used the word "when" and not
"if." When next Chilcote called him he would make a new
departure.  He would no longer avoid Eve; he would
successfully prove to himself that one interest and one alone
filled his mind--the pursuance of Chilcote's political career.
So does man satisfactorily convince himself against himself.
He had this intention fully in mind as he came forward now.

"Well," he said, slowly, "has it been very hard to have faith
--these last five days?"  It was not precisely the tone he had
meant to adopt; but one must begin.

Eve turned at his words.  Her eyes were brimming with life,
her cheeks still touched to a deep, soft color by the keenness
of the wintry air.

"No," she answered, with a shy, responsive touch of
confidence.  "I seemed to keep on believing.  You know
converts make the best devotees."  She laughed with slight
embarrassment, and glanced up at him.  Something in the blue
of her eyes reminded him unexpectedly of spring skies--full of
youth and promise.

He moved abruptly, and crossed the room towards the window.
"Eve," he said, without looking round, "I want your help."

He heard the faint rustling of her dress as she turned towards
him, and he knew that he had struck the right chord.  All true
women respond to an appeal for aid as steel answers to the
magnet.  He could feel her expectancy in the silence.

"You know--we all know--that the present moment is very vital.
That it's impossible to deny the crisis in the air.  Nobody
feels it more than I do--nobody is more exorbitantly keen to
have a share--a part, when the real fight comes--" He stopped;
then he turned slowly and their eyes met.  "If a man is to
succeed in such a desire," he went on, deliberately, "he must
exclude all others--he must have one purpose, one interest,
one thought.  He must forget that--"

Eve lifted her head quickly.  "--that he has a wife," she
finished, gently.  "I think I understand."

There was no annoyance in her face or voice, no suggestion of
selfishness or of hurt vanity.  She had read his meaning with
disconcerting clearness, and responded with disconcerting
generosity.  A sudden and very human dissatisfaction with his
readjustment scheme fell upon Loder.  Opposition is the whip
to action; a too-ready acquiescence the slackened rein.

"Did I say that?" he asked, quickly.  The tone was almost
Chilcote's.

She glanced up; then a sudden, incomprehensible smile lighted
up her face.

"You didn't say, but you thought," she answered, gravely.
"Thoughts are the same as words to a woman.  That's why we are
so unreasonable."  Again she smiled.  Some idea, baffling and
incomprehensible to Loder, was stirring in her mind.

Conscious of the impression, he moved still nearer.  "You jump
to conclusions," he said, abruptly.  "What I meant to imply--"

"--was precisely what I've understood."  Again she finished
his sentence.  Then she laughed softly.  "How very wise, but
how very, very foolish men are!  You come to the conclusion
that because a woman is--is interested in you she is going to
hamper you in some direction, and after infinite pains you
summon all your tact and you set about saving the situation."

There was interest, even a touch of amusement, in her tone,
her eyes were still fixed upon his in an indefinable glance.
"You think you are being very diplomatic," she went on,
quietly, "but in reality you are being very transparent.  The
woman reads the whole of your meaning in your very first
sentence--if she hasn't known it before you began to speak."

Again Loder made an interruption, but again she checked him.
"No," she said, still smiling.  "You should never attempt such
a task.  Shall I tell you why?"

He stood silent, puzzled and interested.

"Because," she said, quickly, "when a woman really is
--interested, the man's career ranks infinitely higher in her
eyes than any personal desire for power."

For a moment their eyes met, then abruptly Loder looked away.
She had gauged his intentions incorrectly, yet with
disconcerting insight.  Again the suggestion of an unusual
personality below the serenity of her manner recurred to his
imagination.

With an impulse altogether foreign to him he lifted his head
and again met her glance.  Then at last he spoke, but only two
words.  "Forgive me!" he said, with simple, direct sincerity.


XXII


After his interview with Eve, Loder retired to the study and
spent the remaining hours of the day and the whole span of the
evening in work.  At one o'clock, still feeling fresh in mind
and body, he dismissed Greening and passed into Chilcote's
bedroom.  The interview with Eve, though widely different from
the one he had anticipated, had left him stimulated and alert.
In the hours that followed it there had been an added anxiety
to put his mind into harness, an added gratification in
finding it answer to the rein.



[13] The columns are, with the exception of one which
is round, roughly hexagonal.

[14] In some plans this chapel is ascribed to St.

Nicholas.

[15] The arch of this chamber shows distinct traces of
fire, not mentioned in any records, and the staircase to the tower,
which then communicated with this chamber, shows traces for a short
distance on the stonework

.

[16] The same moulding is found at Durham in the doorway
from the nave into the cloisters, but there it is much
mutilated; it is also found at St. Joseph's Chapel, Glastonbury,
and in various forms in the West of England.

[17] It is not quite certain whether Sir Guy is actually buried
here.

[18] It is generally considered to be that dedicated to St. John
the Baptist.

The other altar in this chapel may have been dedicated to
St.

George, though the chapel of the latter was probably one of
those in the nave.

[19] The dedication of this Norman chapel, like that of several
others here, is not known

.

[20] The choir at Gloucester is 140 feet long and 33 feet wide

.

[21] The sun was a favourite badge of Edward IV., and is said
to have been adopted in consequence of the appearance of
three suns before the battle of Mortimer's Cross.

It appears upon some of his coins.

[22] The altar-stone at Gloucester was at one time used to
pave the south porch, and is now in the crypt.

[23] The safety of the old glass has been ensured by a protective
external window of rolled glass let in the mullions from the outside.

This was done in 1889.

[24] This Gilbert de Clare is said to have had a copy of Magna
Charta and the Charta de Foresta made and deposited in the
Abbey.

[25] The floor of the upper part was never flat, and was in
all probability never intended for use.

[26] Heraldically speaking.

[27] Henry VII. left instructions in his will that a kneeling
effigy of himself should be placed on the top of the
Confessor's shrine at Westminster.

[28] The western pinnacle was carved locally in 1825-8, and
is a very careful piece of work.

DEERHURST.

[Illustration: _Photo. R.W. Dugdale._ DEERHURST PRIORY CHURCH,
FROM THE SOUTH.]

DEERHURST.

Deerhurst, or Deorhurst--the wood or grove of wild beasts, as its
etymology implies--lies close to Tewkesbury, and the visitor to the
latter must on no account omit to pay a visit to the older building.

It may be reached by a pleasant walk through meadows on the left
bank of the Severn, by the road or by a path across the
fields.

The Priory church of Deerhurst is one of the oldest buildings
of any importance that yet remain in use in England. Its exact
date is more or less a matter of conjecture, but it seems
certain from documentary evidence, which is still accessible,
that in the ninth century the Abbey or Priory was in a prosperous
condition--the document referred to above being
a grant of lands in Gloucestershire and Worcestershire to the Abbey
in 804.

No earlier authentic evidence than this exists, though a _lapsus
calami_ of Leland (who credits the Venerable Bede with an
acquaintance with Deerhurst about the year 700) would seem to give
it an earlier date.

From the earliest time Deerhurst--situated where it is, so
near that great highway the Severn, and occupying a position
on the direct line of traffic by road between Worcester
and Gloucester, must have had an important part to play.
Legend has it that Edmund Ironside and Canute, intent on fighting
a duel after Essendune, met at Olney in 1016, but settled matters
without coming to blows, and later tradition affirms that this
meeting took place in the meadow--once an island or eyot, hence its
present name--called the Naight.

Tradition, again, has it that the Abbey suffered from the Danes,
and this seems likely enough, seeing that they were encamped
at Cirencester for fully a year. Werstan, one of the monks who
escaped from the Danes, is said by Leland to have founded a
cell at Malvern, and was later murdered by the Danes in his
own chapel there. In the windows of Malvern Priory he is
described as "Sanctus Werstanus Martir," but little else is
known about him.

The Abbey, though small, was richly endowed with
land, and is said to have been possessed of nearly forty
thousand acres. Its wealth in landed property was the cause
of its being transferred by Edward the Confessor in 1054-56 to the
great French Abbey of St.

Denis; and what was not so transferred was mostly given by
the King, together with the Manor of Pershore and other possessions,
to his Abbey of St.

Peter at Westminster, which was then building.

The Abbey lost its importance when it became an alien priory,
and its landed possessions, which had once surpassed those of
the abbeys at Gloucester and at Winchcombe, were dwarfed
to very scanty dimensions.

It suffered, too, in prestige, having become a priory, and was
constantly being harried by successive monarchs.

We find that the Conqueror confirmed the grant of the Abbey of
Deerhurst to St.

Denis, but that King John confiscated its revenues.

In 1225 Pope Honorius III. by a Bull approved that the Priory
should be perpetual and conventual. In virtue of this
the Prior could claim not to come into the King's hands, but it
was many years before this claim was barely recognised.

In this same year the Prior was again in possession of the
Priory and its lands; but in 1250 (_temp._ Henry II.), the
Priory was sold to Richard, Duke of Cornwall, who
seems to have driven out the monks and destroyed the greater
part of their buildings.

Later in the same reign, 1260, the Abbot of St. Denis again
got possession of the Priory.

In 1295 Edward I. took possession of all the existing alien priories
for the sake of the revenue they would bring into his exchequer.

Edward III.[29] again despoiled the monks of what was theirs,
and his grandson, Richard II., followed in his steps.

The Priory had a respite from such continued harryings
with the accession of Henry IV. (1399).

This king took possession of it as an alien Priory, but
immediately handed it over to William Forester, the then Prior,
with the stipulation that in the event of a war with France
the King should receive a sum of money equal to that which in
time of peace would be paid to the Abbey of St. Denis.

With halcyon days like these the Priory set about rebuilding
what had been destroyed, and works were undertaken--much of
which is standing at the present time.

Henry V. by charter in 1419 confirmed the policy of Henry
IV. in giving the Prior all the rights and privileges enjoyed by
William Forester, and Henry V. acknowledged the claim of the Priory
to be conventual and perpetual, and as such, not to come into the
King's hands.

However, one king proposes, another disposes. Henry VI. in
1463, while confirming all existing rights, made the Priory
a denizen priory with the same status as all other similar
English foundations.
But this change was followed by yet another in four years' time.

Henry VI. being the founder of Eton College, and King's
College, Cambridge, was in want of funds, and he relieved the
pressure on his exchequer by appropriating the possessions of the
Priory, and handing part of them to his royal College at Eton, and
part (in 1422) to the already rich Abbey at Tewkesbury.

Much litigation followed with Eton, and in 1469 the Priory was
united and annexed by Carpenter, Bishop of Worcester, to the
monastery at Tewkesbury, with the stipulation that the
"Abbot of Tewkesbury was to find and maintain there one
monk in priest's orders, to be called Prior or Warden, four other
monks, and one secular priest daily to perform divine service in
that priory."

The independence of Deerhurst was now at an end, and little is heard
of it again.

At the Dissolution, like many of the Tewkesbury possessions,
it became private property, the site, the buildings and
the tithes being conveyed to George Throgmorton, a local
personage, who became the lay impropriator.

The tithes passed later into the hands of the family of Cassey, of
Wightfield Court; but the lands became the property of the Coventry
family, and at the end of the seventeenth century gave the title
to Viscount Deerhurst, the fifth Baron.

At the Dissolution Deerhurst became a curacy, and remained
so till 1682, the advowson then being transferred from lay
hands to those of the Bishop of Worcester.

EXTERIOR.

Of the exterior of the church there is not much to be said.

The chief feature is the =Tower=. It has been reduced
in height, probably at the time that the steeple was blown down
in 1666, but no churchwardens' accounts of that date remain.

It is 70 feet high, 21 feet 8 inches from east to west, and 14 feet
4 inches from north to south, with a slight batter to the walls,
which at the base are 32 inches in thickness.

For about 35 feet or so the masonry is Saxon work, but has
been subsequently severely handled, especially on the west
side.

The east side contains a wall-plate of early date, and
more of the interesting early work. The upper part is later
work, having ashlar quoins at the four angles.

The entrance door is a Pointed arch of the fourteenth century
date inserted within the earlier round-headed arch, of which
the outer edges have considerably crumbled away. Above
the arch is a piece of stonework, similar to one above the
long, narrow window, considered by some to be a mutilated
carved head, but with more real likeness to a broken
mechanical contrivance for hoisting up weighty goods into the
upper part of the tower. On the right of the entrance door
is the door which now gives entrance to the belfry. In many
parts of the exterior there are traces of the coarse herring-bone
work so prevalent in Saxon masonry.

At the north-west and south-west angles of the aisles are
gargoyles, that at the north-west corner being the better
preserved.

The church was rough-cast all over in the early part
of this century, but was restored in 1861-62 to practically
its present appearance.
Part of the tower, that to the west, has a battlement, while
the rest has a low gabled roof.

The windows in the belfry are decorated in character, but
much of the masonry near them seems to be re-used stone from other
parts.

By obtaining entrance to the farmyard upon which the east
end abuts, traces of the original apsidal termination may be
seen.

It is much to be regretted that the church precincts are so
built upon that examination is difficult.

INTERIOR.

The western entrance is situate in the tower front, and by three
doorways gives access to the nave.

=The Nave.=--The nave of the present church measures 60
feet by 21 feet, including what was the original choir, which
was under the central tower, and which, from the plan, must
have been 20 feet in length.

The nave proper would be 38 feet by 21 feet, making allowance
for the thickness of the choir arch wall.

It is more than probable that the wall which separated the choir
from the nave was in character like the present eastern wall,
with a spacious and lofty arch spanning the opening,
which gave access to the apsidal eastern end. Traces of such
an arch were found at the restoration of the church in 1861-62.

As was the case at Tewkesbury, Gloucester, and elsewhere,
the nave was the parish church, and the choir and the rest
of the building eastwards the private chapel of the Priory.
Small though the original nave was--for the present aisles are
later additions--it was, if the walls are of the original
height, unusually lofty for a church of its date. The original
nave had transepts, as shown in plan on page 118, with a room,
probably a sacristy, to the east of the north transept
and a similar room or a chapel at the east of the south
transept.

On either side of the nave the original walls have been pierced,
and an arcade of three good Early English arches was
inserted in the thirteenth century. It will be noted that the
easternmost of the three arches on each side is slightly wider
in span than the other two. All the capitals differ in
their details. Over these arches on either side is a
triangular opening about 18 feet from the floor level, similar
to the opening in the west end of the nave.

The edges of these openings are left quite square, _i.e._,
there is no splaying.

The clerestory windows are, for the most part, early fifteenth
century, and replaced the early windows, which may have been of
circular form.

At the west end of the nave there are several very curious
features.
The arch of the doorway is a plain, round-headed arch with
its edges left quite square, and the impost is plain with
the exception of a hollow immediately below the abacus.

In height the doorway is 10 feet, and in width 5-½ feet, and
it leans slightly to the north. Above this doorway, in
the corners of the west wall, are two impost members or brackets,
similar to those in the chancel, which may have been intended to
support the floor joists of a chamber or gallery at this end of the
nave.

Not far above these brackets is a triangular opening similar
to those in the north and south walls of the nave, and through
which, from the room in the tower, a view is obtained of the nave
generally.

It is on the same level as those in the nave. To the right of
this is a blocked-up round-headed doorway, which once gave
access from the room in the tower on this level to a gallery
at the east end of the nave. The jambs are each of two similar
blocks of stone.

[Illustration: _Photo. R.W. Dugdale._ INTERIOR, LOOKING WEST.]

Above this, in the centre of the upper part of the west
wall of the nave, is perhaps the most curious architectural feature
of the church.

It is a two-light window, each light having a head formed of
an isosceles triangle. The outer jambs, as also the broad
central massive pier, are slightly fluted, and in some of
these flutings is a bar in relief.

On the church side the bars are inserted in the upper part
of the hollow; on the tower side they are in some cases at the
top, in others in the lower half.

The following dimensions show how massive is this piece
of primitive work. The sill on which the window is built is of
stone concealed by plaster. Each light in its widest part is
18 inches, 13 inches between the plinths on the sill. The
plinths are 14 inches in thickness, and that of the central pier
is 21 inches.

The central pier itself is a trifle shorter than the
jambs, 1 foot 8 inches, but this difference is made up by a much
more massive impost, the central impost being 9 inches thick as
compared with 8 inches in the case of the others.

Each impost is, as it were, in square-edged layers, each layer
overhanging the one below it. The head of each opening is
formed of two single stones so cut that they meet at an angle
of about 30 degrees.

These stones are 11-¼ inches in thickness, and 3 feet 6
inches long on the outside edges.

In the angle between the two portions of the window they
measure 3 feet 1-½ inches. They are carried right through
the wall, with a plain label almost square in section.

Above the window, resting on the label points is an oblong
block of stone which is thought at one time to have been
painted, as no inscription can be traced.

Near the tower end is a portion of the Perpendicular timbered
roof, and the rest of the roofing of the nave and chancel is
modern work designed upon the basis of the older example.

The =South Aisle= was added in the twelfth century. The south
wall of the south transept was continued to the west, the
greater part of the west wall of this transept being
removed, a segmental arch being inserted exactly where the
oak-screen is now. The wall from the original south-east corner
of the tower was carried southwards to meet the new wall
mentioned above. Next, the solid walls of the nave were pierced
with three unequal openings, and, from the piers thus left, arches
were carried across the new south aisle to the new south wall of
the church, and the walls of the inner porch seem to have been
pierced with arches about the same time, one being also made to
span the space from the extreme end of the original wall of the
nave to the new south-east corner of the tower.

A turret and staircase seem next to have been made outside
the church in the angle thus made by the new
works, but the plan seems to have been soon altered by the
carrying out of the west wall of the aisle till it was flush with
the west front.

The then external doorway into the turret became an internal one,
but has been blocked up, access to the tower staircase being obtained
by the narrow door in the west front.

The remains of Transitional Norman work in the south aisle
are scanty, but of extreme interest.

In the thirteenth century the =North Aisle= was constructed,
and made to correspond with the south aisle, though it is
slightly narrower.
Its beautiful capitals inspired the workers to do their best and
harmonise those in the south aisle arcade with those in the other
aisle.

The walls of the nave were carried up to receive the
clerestory windows about the year 1400, but as to their
original height it is only possible to conjecture.

The Decorated windows of the north aisle all differ in
style and date, that in the north transept being the
earliest.

The westernmost window in the south aisle is approximately of
the same date, and contains the only glass in the church that
is of any interest. The other windows in this south aisle
are Perpendicular, and are high in the wall owing to the existence
of the cloister, a blocked-up door into which can be seen under the
westernmost window.

Some fifteenth century oak seats in this aisle are worth notice.

In the north aisle the north-west window of four lights (by
Wailes) is a memorial to Hugh Edwin Strickland (1853).

The head of the window contains the fanciful device relating
to the Persons of the Trinity, and below are Noah, Aaron,
David, and St.

John the Baptist.

In the lowest tier are Adam and Eve, Abraham and Isaac, the
Annunciation, the Baptism of Christ in the Jordan.

The next window (by Clayton and Bell) is a memorial window
erected by the Rev. G. Butterworth, till lately Vicar of
Deerhurst.

In the north wall near the font is a blocked-up doorway,
containing another memorial to a member of the Strickland
family.

[Illustration]
Pater -- non est -- Filius | |
est est | |
| |
| Deus |
non | non est | est | est |
| | |
Spiritus Sanctus
Both the aisles of the nave had undoubtedly at one time altars at
their eastern ends.

The north aisle contains three aumbries and the south aisle has
one, probably removed from elsewhere in the church.

It contains a piscina and a small circular recess or reliquary in
its eastern side.

The north aisle contains a very fine specimen of a brass dated
1400, which records the death of Sir John Cassy, Chief Baron of
the Exchequer in the reign of Edward III., and his wife Alicia.

The inscription runs (in finely cut black letters, with
beautiful ornaments between each word), "Hic jacet
Joh[~e]s Cassy miles quondam Capitalis Baro Sccii (_i.e._
Scaccarii) Regis qui obiit xxiii^o die Maii Anno Dn[~i] MCCCC, et
Alicia uxor ejus. qu[~o]r a[~i]abus pp[~e]r deus."

The Chief Baron is represented in his robes, with a lion at his
feet; his wife in a long loose flowing dress, fastened at the
wrists and round the neck.

She has her dog at her feet, with his name "Tirri" engraved
upon his side.

Only one other instance exists of a pet's name being thus
handed down.[30] Above the figures is a rich canopy, and
a figure of the Virgin and St. Anne, a figure of St.
John the Baptist being unfortunately missing.

Close to this are one or two other brasses.

One of Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas Bruges, Esq., of
Coverle, and wife of William Cassey, Esq., of Whyghtfylde,
and then of Walter Nowden, Esq., 1525. Another small brass in
the floor of the doorway to the choir records that "Here lyeth
the body of Edward Guy, gent., who married Francis the eldest
daughter of John Gotheridge, Esq., and had by her six sonnes and
one daughter, and was here buried the sixt day of Dec.

A^o. 1612."
Near to the Cassy brass is an old chest, and a stone coffin with a
foliated cross upon its lid.

This had been under the pavement till the 1861-62 restoration--hence
its excellent state of preservation.

The blocked door in the east wall of this north transept once
gave access to the sacristy.

=The Font.=--The font, one of the most interesting points in
this interesting church, has had a curious history. A
lady in the neighbourhood (Miss Strickland, of Apperley Court)
found in a garden close to the river, in 1870, an upright carved
stone.

It occurred to this lady that the stone was in reality the
stem or lower part of the font then in Longdon church, in
Worcestershire, as the ornament seemed to be similar.
The Vicar of Longdon was then asked to give up the bowl portion
which had been conveyed in 1845 from a Deerhurst farmyard
to Longdon church.

The request was graciously entertained, and Longdon church
received in exchange a new font. The two portions--probably
long separated--were then replaced as they are now to be seen in
Deerhurst, and the font previously in use there was given to Castle
Morton church.

[Illustration: _Photo.

R.W. Dugdale._ FONT.]
The bowl is, like other early fonts, rather tub-shaped, made
of coarse-grained oolite, a Cotswold district stone,
covered with uncommon ornamentation. It measures externally
28-½ inches in diameter, internally 24 inches, and 21 inches in
height.

The ornamentation consists of eight panels, each containing
spirals which form an endless pattern, as they conjoin with
other similar lines. Mr.
Westwood in the _Arch. Soc. Journal_ said of the ornament that
it is "especially Irish, and is found in the finest of the most
ancient illuminated Irish copies of the Gospels, and in those which
were executed in England under the influence of the Irish missionaries.

She remembered the day when she and
Chilcote had talked of doubles, her scepticism and his
vehement defence of the idea; his sudden interest in the book
'Other Men's Shoes', and his anathema against life and its
irksome round of duties.  She remembered her own first
convinced recognition of the eyes that had looked at her in
the doorway of her sister's house; and, last of all, she
remembered Chilcote's unaccountable avoidance of the same
subject of likenesses when she had mentioned it yesterday
driving through the Park--and with it his unnecessarily curt
repudiation of his former opinions.  She reviewed each item,
then she raised her head slowly and looked at Loder.

He was prepared for the glance and met it steadily.

In the long moment that her eyes searched his face it was she
and not he who changed color.  She was the first to speak.
"You were the man whose hands I saw in the tent," she said.
She made the statement in her usual soft tones, but a slight
tremor of excitement underran her voice.  Poodles, Persian
kittens, even crystal gazing-balls, seemed very far away in
face of this tangible, fabulous, present interest.  "You are
not Jack Chilcote," she said, very slowly.  "You are wearing
his clothes, and speaking in his voice but you are not Jack
Chilcote."  Her tone quickened with a touch of excitement.
"You needn't keep silent and look at me," she said.  "I know
quite well what I am saying--though I don't understand it,
though I have no real proof--"  She paused, momentarily
disconcerted by her companion's silent and steady gaze, and in
the pause a curious and unexpected thing occurred.

Loder laughed suddenly--a full, confident, reassured laugh.
All the web that the past half-hour had spun about him, all
the intolerable sense of an impending crash, lifted suddenly.
He saw his way clearly--and it was Lillian who had opened his
eyes.

Still looking at her, he smiled--a smile of reliant
determination, such as Chilcote had never worn in his life.
And with a calm gesture he released his hand.

"The greatest charm of woman is her imagination," he said,
quietly.  "Without it there would be no color in life; we
would come into and drop out of it with the same uninteresting
tone of drab reality."  He paused and smiled again.

At his smile, Lillian involuntarily drew back, the color
deepening in her cheeks.  "Why do you say that?" she asked.

He lifted his head.  With each moment he felt more certain of
himself.  "Because that is my attitude," he said.  "As a man I
admire your imagination, but as a man I fail to follow your
reasoning."

The words and the tone both stung her.  "Do you realize the
position?" she asked, sharply.  "Do you realize that, whatever
your plans are, I can spoil them?"

Loder still met her eyes.  "I realize nothing of the sort," he
said.

"Then you admit that you are not Jack Chilcote?"

"I neither deny nor admit.  My identity is obvious.  I can get
twenty men to swear to it at any moment that you like.  The
fact that I haven't worn rings till now will scarcely interest
them."

"But you do admit--to me, that you are not Jack?"

"I deny nothing--and admit nothing.  I still offer my
congratulations."

"Upon what?"

"The same possession--your imagination."

Lillian stamped her foot.  Then, by a quick effort, she
conquered her temper.  "Prove me to be wrong!" she said, with
a fresh touch of excitement.  "Take off your rings and let me
see your hand."

With a deliberate gesture Loder put his hand behind his back.
"I never gratify childish curiosity," he said, with another
smile.

Again a flash of temper crossed her eyes.  "Are you sure," she
said, "that it's quite wise to talk like that?"

Loder laughed again.  "Is that a threat?"

"Perhaps."

"Then it's an empty one."

"Why?"

Before replying he waited a moment, looking down at her.

"I conclude," he began, quietly, "that your idea is to spread
this wild, improbable story--to ask people to believe that
John Chilcote, whom they see before them, is not John
Chilcote, but somebody else.  Now you'll find that a harder
task than you imagine.  This is a sceptical world, and people
are absurdly fond of their own eyesight.  We are all
journalists nowadays--we all want facts.  The first thing you
will be asked for is your proof.  And what does your proof
consist of?  The circumstance that John Chilcote, who has
always despised jewelry, has lately taken to wearing rings!
Your own statement, unattended by any witnesses, that with
those rings off his finger bears a scar belonging to another
man!  No; on close examination I scarcely imagine that your
case would hold."  He stopped, fired by his own logic.  The
future might be Chilcote's but the present was his; and this
present--with its immeasurable possibilities
--had been rescued from catastrophe.  "No," he said, again.
"When you get your proof perhaps we'll have another talk; but
till then--"

"Till then?" She looked up quickly; but almost at once her
question died away.

The door had opened, and the servant who had admitted Loder
stood in the opening.

"Dinner is served!" he announced, in his deferential voice.


XXIII


And Loder dined with Lillian Astrupp.  We live in an age when
society expects, even exacts, much.  He dined, not through
bravado and not through cowardice, but because it seemed the
obvious, the only thing to do.  To him a scene of any
description was distasteful; to Lillian it was unknown.  In
her world people loved or hated, were spiteful or foolish,
were even quixotic or dishonorable, but they seldom made
scenes.  Loder tacitly saw and tacitly accepted this.

Possibly they ate extremely little during the course of the
dinner, and talked extraordinarily much on subjects that
interested neither; but the main point at least was gained.
They dined.  The conventionalities were appeased; the silent,
watchful servants who waited on them were given no food for
comment.  The fact that Loder left immediately after dinner,
the fact that he paused on the door-step after the hall door
had closed behind him, and drew a long, deep breath of relief,
held only an individual significance and therefore did not
count.

On reaching Chilcote's house he passed at once to the
study and dismissed Greening for the night.  But scarcely
had he taken advantage of his solitude by settling into an
arm-chair and lighting a cigar, than Renwick, displaying an
unusual amount of haste and importance, entered the room
carrying a letter.

Seeing Loder, he came forward at once.  "Mr. Fraide's man
brought this, sir," he explained.  "He was most particular to
give it into my hands--making sure 'twould reach you.  He's
waiting for an answer, sir."

Loder rose and took the letter, a quick thrill of speculation
and interest springing across his mind.  During his time of
banishment he had followed the political situation with
feverish attention, insupportably chafed by the desire to
share in it, apprehensively chilled at the thought of
Chilcote's possible behavior.  He knew that in the
comparatively short interval since Parliament had risen no act
of aggression had marked the Russian occupation of Meshed, but
he also knew that Fraide and his followers looked askance at
that great power's amiable attitude, and at sight of his
leader's message his intuition stirred.

Turning to the nearest lamp, he tore the envelope open and
scanned the letter anxiously.  It was written in Fraide's own
clear, somewhat old-fashioned writing, and opened with a
kindly rebuke for his desertion of him since the day of his
speech; then immediately, and with characteristic clearness,
it opened up the subject nearest the writer's mind.

Very slowly and attentively Loder read the letter; and with
the extreme quiet that with him invariably covered emotion, he
moved to the desk, wrote a note, and handed it to the waiting
servant.  As the man turned towards the door he called him.

"Renwick!" he said, sharply, "when you've given that letter to
Mr. Fraide's servant, ask Mrs. Chilcote if she can spare me
five minutes."

When Renwick had gone and closed the door behind him, Loder
paced the room with feverish activity.  In one moment the
aspect of life had been changed.  Five minutes since he had
been glorying in the risk of a barely saved situation; now
that situation with its merely social complications had become
a matter of small importance.

His long, striding steps had carried him to the fireplace, and
his back was towards the door when at last the handle turned.
He wheeled round to receive Eve's message; then a look of
pleased surprise crossed his face.  It was Eve herself who
stood in the doorway.

Without hesitation his lips parted.  "Eve," he said, abruptly,
"I have had great news!  Russia has shown her teeth at last.
Two caravans belonging to a British trader were yesterday
interfered with by a band of Cossacks.  The affair occurred a
couple of miles outside Meshed; the traders remonstrated, but
the Russians made summary use of their advantage.  Two
Englishmen were wounded and one of them has since died.
Fraide has only now received the news--which cannot be overrated.
It gives the precise lever necessary for the big move at the
reassembling."  He spoke with great earnestness and unusual
haste.  As he finished he took a step forward.  "But that's not
all!" he added.  "Fraide wants the great move set in motion by
a great speech--and he has asked me to make it."

For a moment Eve waited.  She looked at him in silence; and in
that silence he read in her eyes the reflection of his own
expression.

"And you?" she asked, in a suppressed voice.  "What answer did
you give?"

He watched her for an instant, taking a strange pleasure in
her flushed face and brilliantly eager eyes; then the joy of
conscious strength, the sense of opportunity regained, swept
all other considerations out of sight.

"I accepted," he said, quickly.  "Could any man who was merely
human have done otherwise?"

That was Loder's attitude and action on the night of his
jeopardy and his success, and the following day found his mood
unchanged.  He was one of those rare individuals who never
give a promise overnight and regret it in the morning.  He was
slow to move, but when he did the movement brushed all
obstacles aside.  In the first days of his usurpation he had
gone cautiously, half fascinated, half distrustful; then the
reality, the extraordinary tangibility of the position had
gripped him when, matching himself for the first time with men
of his own caliber, he had learned his real weight on the day
of his protest against the Easter adjournment.  With that
knowledge had been born the dominant factor in his whole
scheme--the overwhelming, insistent desire to manifest his
power.  That desire that is the salvation or the ruin of every
strong man who has once realized his strength.  Supremacy was
the note to which his ambition reached.  To trample out
Chilcote's footmarks with his own had been his tacit instinct
from the first; now it rose paramount.  It was the whole
theory of creation--the survival of the fittest--the deep,
egotistical certainty that he was the better man.

And it was with this conviction that he entered on the vital
period of his dual career.  The imminent crisis, and his own
share in it, absorbed him absolutely.

In the weeks that followed his answer to Fraide's proposal he
gave himself ungrudgingly to his work.  He wrote, read, and
planned with tireless energy; he frequently forgot to eat, and
slept only through sheer exhaustion; in the fullest sense of
the word he lived for the culminating hour that was to bring
him failure or success.

He seldom left Grosvenor Square in the days that followed,
except to confer with his party.  All his interest, all his
relaxation even, lay in his work and what pertained to it.
His strength was like a solid wall, his intelligence was sharp
and keen as steel.  The moment was his; and by sheer mastery
of will he put other considerations out of sight.  He forgot
Chilcote and forgot Lillian--not because they escaped his
memory, but because he chose to shut them from it.

Of Eve he saw but little in this time of high pressure.  When
a man touches the core of his capacities, puts his best into
the work that in his eyes stands paramount, there is little
place for, and no need of, woman.  She comes before--and after.
She inspires, compensates, or completes; but the achievement,
the creation, is man's alone.  And all true women understand
and yield to this unspoken precept.

Eve watched the progress of his labor, and in the depth of her
own heart the watching came nearer to actual living than any
activity she had known.  She was an on-looker--but an on-looker
who stood, as it were, on the steps of the arena, who, by a
single forward movement, could feel the sand under her feet,
the breath of the battle on her face; and in this knowledge
she rested satisfied.

There were hours when Loder seemed scarcely conscious of
her existence; but on those occasions she smiled in her serene
way--and went on waiting.  She knew that each day, before the
afternoon had passed, he would come into her sitting-room, his
face thoughtful, his hands full of books or papers, and,
dropping into one of the comfortable, studious chairs, would
ask laconically for tea.  This was her moment of triumph and
recompense--for the very unconsciousness of his coming doubled
its value.  He would sit for half an hour with a preoccupied
glance, or with keen, alert eyes fixed on the fire, while his
ideas sorted themselves and fell into line.  Sometimes he was
silent for the whole half-hour, sometimes he commented to
himself as he scanned his notes; but on other and rarer
occasions he talked, speaking his thoughts and his theories
aloud, with the enjoyment of a man who knows himself fully in
his depth, while Eve sipped her tea or stitched peacefully at
a strip of embroidery.

On these occasions she made a perfect listener.  Here and
there she encouraged him with an intelligent remark, but she
never interrupted.  She knew when to be silent and when to
speak; when to merge her own individuality and when to make it
felt.  In these days of stress and preparation he came to her
unconsciously for rest; he treated her as he might have
treated a younger brother--relying on her discretion, turning
to her as by right for sympathy, comprehension, and friendship.
Sometimes, as they sat silent in the richly colored, homelike
room, Eve would pause over her embroidery and let her thoughts
spin momentarily forward--spin towards the point where, the
brunt of his ordeal passed, he must, of necessity, seek
something beyond mere rest.  But there her thoughts would
inevitably break off and the blood flame quickly into her cheek.

Meanwhile Loder worked persistently.  With each day that
brought the crisis of Fraide's scheme nearer, his activity
increased--and with it an intensifying of the nervous strain.
For if he had his hours of exaltation, he also had his hours
of black apprehension.  It is all very well  to exorcise a
ghost by sheer strength of will, but one  has also to eliminate
the idea that gave it existence.  Lillian Astrupp, with her
unattested evidence and her ephemeral interest, gave him no real
uneasiness; but Chilcote and Chilcote's possible summons were
matters of graver consideration; and there were times when they
loomed very dark and sinister: What if at the very moment of
fulfilment--?  But invariably he snapped the thread of the
supposition and turned with fiercer ardor to his work of
preparation.

And so the last morning of his probation dawned, and for the
first time he breathed freely.

He rose early on the day that was to witness his great effort
and dressed slowly.  It was a splendid morning; the spirit of
the spring seemed embodied in the air, in  the pale-blue sky,
in the shafts of cool sunshine that danced from the mirror to
the dressing-table, from the dressing-table to the pictures
on the walls of Chilcote's vast room.  Inconsequently with its
dancing rose a memory  of the distant past--a memory of
long-forgotten days when, as a child, he had been bidden to
watch the same sun  perform the same fantastic evolutions.  The
sight and the thought stirred him curiously with an unlooked-for
sense of youth.  He drew himself together with an added touch of
decision as he passed out into the corridor; and as he walked
down-stairs he whistled a bar or two of an inspiriting tune.

In the morning-room Eve was already waiting.  She looked up,
colored, and smiled as he entered.  Her face looked very fresh
and young and she wore a gown of the same pale blue that she
had worn on his first coming.

She looked up from an open letter as he came into the room,
and the sun that fell through the window caught her in a shaft
of light, intensifying her blue eyes, her blue gown, and the
bunch of violets fastened in her belt.  To Loder, still under
the influence of early memories, she seemed the embodiment of
some youthful ideal--something lost, sought for, and found
again.  Realization of his feeling for her almost came to him
as be stood there looking at her.  It hovered about him; it
tipped him, as it were, with its wings; then it rose again and
soared away.  Men like him--men keen to grasp an opening where
their careers are concerned, and tenacious to hold it when once
grasped--are frequently the last to look into their own hearts.
He glanced at Eve, he acknowledged the stir of his feeling, but
he made no attempt to define its cause.  He could no more have
given reason for his sensations than he could have told the
precise date upon which, coming down-stairs at eight o'clock, he
had first found her waiting breakfast for him.  The time when
all such incidents were to stand out, each to a nicety in its
appointed place, had not yet arrived.  For the moment his
youth had returned to him; he possessed the knowledge of work
done, the sense of present companionship in a world of
agreeable things; above all, the steady, quiet conviction of
his own capacity.  All these things came to him in the moment
of his entering the room, greeting Eve, and passing to the
breakfast-table; then, while his eyes still rested contentedly
on the pleasant array of china and silver, while his senses
were still alive to the fresh, earthly scent of Eve's violets,
the blow so long dreaded--so slow in coming fell with
accumulated force.


XXIV


The letter through which the blow fell was not voluminous.  It
was written on cheap paper in a disguised hand, and the
contents covered only half a page.  Loder read it slowly,
mentally articulating every word; then he laid it down, and as
he did so he caught Eve's eyes raised in concern.  Again he
saw something of his own feelings reflected in her face, and
the shock braced him; he picked up the letter, tearing it into
strips.

"I must go out," he said, slowly.  "I must go now--at once."
His voice was hard.

Eve's surprised, concerned eyes still searched his.  "Now
--at once?" she repeated.  "Now--without breakfast?"

"I'm not hungry."  He rose from his seat, and, carrying the
slips of paper across the room, dropped them into the fire.
He did it, not so much from caution, as from an imperative
wish to do something, to move, if only across the room.

Eve's glance followed him.  "Is it bad news?" she asked,
anxiously.  It was unlike her to be insistent, but she was
moved to the impulse by the peculiarity of the moment.

"No," he said shortly.  "It's--business.  This was written
yesterday; I should have got it last night."

Her eyes widened.  "But nobody does business at eight in the
morning--" she began, in astonishment; then she suddenly broke
off.

Without apology or farewell, Loder had left the fireplace and
walked out of the room.

He passed through the hall hurriedly, picking up a hat as he
went; and, reaching the pavement outside, he went straight
forward until Grosvenor Square was left behind; then he ran.
At the risk of reputation, at the loss of dignity, he ran
until he saw a cab.  Hailing it, he sprang inside, and, as the
cabman whipped up and the horse responded to the call, he
realized for the first time the full significance of what had
occurred.

Realization, like the need for action, came to him slowly, but
when it came it was with terrible lucidity.  He did not swear
as he leaned back in his seat, mechanically watching the
stream of men on their way to business, the belated cars of
green produce blocking the way between the Strand and Covent
Garden.  He had no use for oaths; his feelings lay deeper than
mere words.  But his mouth was sternly set and his eyes looked
cold.

Outside the Law Courts he dismissed his cab and walked forward
to Clifford's Inn.  As he passed through the familiar entrance
a chill fell on him.  In the clear, early light it seemed more
than ever a place of dead hopes, dead enterprises, dead
ambitions.  In the onward march of life it had been forgotten.
The very air had a breath of unfulfilment.

He crossed the court rapidly, but his mouth set itself afresh
as he passed through the door-way of his own house and crossed
the bare hall.

As he mounted the well-known stairs, he received his first
indication of life in the appearance of a cat from the
second-floor rooms.  At sight of him, the animal came forward,
rubbed demonstratively against his legs, and with affectionate
persistence followed him up-stairs.

Outside his door he paused.  On the ground stood the usual
morning can of milk--evidence that Chilcote was not yet awake
or that, like himself, he had no appetite for breakfast.  He
smiled ironically as the idea struck him, but it was a smile
that stiffened rather than relaxed his lips.  Then he drew out
the duplicate key he always carried, and, inserting it
quietly, opened the door.  A close, unpleasant smell greeted
him as he entered the small passage that divided the bed and
sitting rooms--a smell of whiskey mingling with the odor of
stale smoke.  With a quick gesture he pushed open the bedroom
door; then on the threshold he paused, a look of contempt and
repulsion passing over his face.

In his first glance he scarcely grasped the details of the
scene, for the half-drawn curtains kept the light dim, but as
his eyes grew accustomed to the obscurity he gathered their
significance.

The room had a sleepless, jaded air--the room that under his
own occupation had shown a rigid, almost monastic severity.
The plain dressing-table was littered with cigarette ends and
marked with black and tawny patches where the tobacco had been
left to burn itself out.  On one corner of the table a carafe
of water and a whiskey-decanter rested one against the other,
as if for support, and at the other end an overturned tumbler
lay in a pool of liquid.  The whole effect was sickly and
nauseating.  His glance turned involuntarily to the bed, and
there halted.

On the hard, narrow mattress, from which the sheets and
blankets had fallen in a disordered heap, lay Chilcote.  He
was fully dressed in a shabby tweed suit of Loder's; his
collar was open, his lip and chin unshaven; one hand was
limply grasping the pillow, while the other hung out over the
side of the bed.  His face, pale, almost earthy in hue, might
have been a mask, save for the slight convulsive spasms that
crossed it from time to time, and corresponded with the faint,
shivering starts that passed at intervals over his whole body.
To complete his repellent appearance, a lock of hair had
fallen loose and lay black and damp across his forehead.

Loder stood for a space shocked and spellbound by the sight.
Even in the ghastly disarray, the likeness--the extraordinary,
sinister likeness that had become the pivot upon which he
himself revolved--struck him like a blow.  The man who lay
there was himself-bound to him by some subtle, inexplicable
tie of similarity.  As the idea touched him he turned aside
and stepped quickly to the dressing-table; there, with
unnecessary energy, he flung back the curtains and threw the
window wide; then again he turned towards the bed.  He had one
dominant impulse--to waken Chilcote, to be free of the
repulsive, inert presence that chilled him with so personal a
horror.  Leaning over the bed, he caught the shoulder nearest
to him and shook it.  It was not the moment for niceties, and
his gesture was rough.

At his first touch Chilcote made no response--his brain,
dulled by indulgence in his vice, had become a laggard in
conveying sensations; but at last, as the pressure on his
shoulder increased, his nervous system seemed suddenly to jar
into consciousness.  A long shudder shook him; he half lifted
himself and then dropped back upon the pillow.

"Oh!" he exclaimed, in a trembling breath.  "Oh!"  The sound
seemed drawn from him by compulsion.

Its uncanny tone chilled Loder anew.  "Wake up, man!" he said,
suddenly.  "Wake up!  It's I--Loder."

Again the other shuddered; then he turned quickly and
nervously.  "Loder?" he said, doubtfully.  "Loder?"  Then his
face changed.  "Good God!" he exclaimed, "what a relief!"

The words were so intense, so spontaneous and unexpected, that
Loder took a step back.

Chilcote laughed discordantly, and lifted a shaky hand to
protect his eyes from the light.

"It's--it's all right, Loder!  It's all right!  It's only that
I--that I had a beastly dream.  But, for Heaven's sake, shut
that window!"  He shivered involuntarily and pushed the lock
of damp hair from his forehead with a weak touch of his old
irritability.

In silence Loder moved back to the window and shut it.  He was
affected more than he would own even to himself by the obvious
change in Chilcote.  He had seen him moody, restless,
nervously excited; but never before had he seen him entirely
demoralized.  With a dull feeling of impotence and disgust he
stood by the closed window, looking unseeingly at the roofs of
the opposite houses.

But Chilcote had followed his movements restlessly; and now,
as he watched him, a flicker of excitement crossed his face.
"God!  Loder," he said, again, "'twas a relief to see you!  I
dreamed I was in hell--a horrible hell, worse than the one
they preach about."

He laughed to reassure himself, but his voice shook pitiably.

Loder, who had come to fight, stood silent and inert.

"It was horrible--beastly," Chilcote went on.  "There was no
fire and brimstone, but there was something worse.  It was a
great ironic scheme of punishment by which every man was
chained to his own vice--by which the thing he had gone to
pieces over, instead of being denied him, was made compulsory.
You can't imagine it."  He shivered nervously and his voice
rose.  "Fancy being satiated beyond the limit of satiety,
being driven and dogged by the thing you had run after all
your life!"

He paused excitedly, and in the pause Loder found resolution.
He shut his ears to the panic in Chilcote's voice, he closed
his consciousness to the sight of his shaken face.  With a
surge of determination he rallied his theories.  After all, he
had himself and his own interests to claim his thought.  At
the moment Chilcote was a wreck, with no desire towards
rehabilitation; but there was no guarantee that in an hour or
two he might not have regained control over himself, and with
it the inclination that had prompted his letter of the day
before.  No; he had himself to look to.  The survival of the
fittest was the true, the only principle.  Chilcote had had
intellect, education, opportunity, and Chilcote had
deliberately cast them aside.  Fortifying himself in the
knowledge, he turned from the window and moved slowly back to
the bed.

"Look here," he began, "yon wrote for me last night--"  His
voice was hard; he had come to fight.

Chilcote glanced up quickly.  His mouth was drawn and there
was anew anxiety in his eyes.  "Loder!" he exclaimed, quickly.
"Loder, come here!  Come nearer!"

Reluctantly Loder obeyed.  Stepping closer to the side of the
bed, he bent down.

The other put up his hand and caught his arm.  His fingers
trembled and jerked.  "I say, Loder," he said, suddenly, "I
--I've had such a beastly night--my nerves, you know--"

With a quick, involuntary disgust Loder drew back.  "Don't you
think we might shove that aside?" he asked.

But Chilcote's gaze had wandered from his face and strayed to
the dressing-table; there it moved feverishly from one object
to another.

"Loder," he exclaimed, "do you see--can you see if there's a
tube of tabloids on the mantel-shelf--or on the dressing-table?"
He lifted himself nervously on his elbow and his eyes wandered
uneasily about the room.  "I--I had a beastly night; my nerves
are horribly jarred; and I thought--I think--"  He stopped.

With his increasing consciousness his nervous collapse became
more marked.  At the first moment of waking, the relief of an
unexpected presence had surmounted everything else; but now,
as one by one his faculties stirred, his wretched condition
became patent.  With a new sense of perturbation Loder made
his next attack.

"Chilcote--" he began, sternly.

But again Chilcote caught his arm, plucking at the
coat-sleeve.  "Where is it?" he said.  "Where is the tube of
tabloids--the sedative?  I'm--I'm obliged to take something
when my nerves go wrong--"  In his weakness and nervous tremor
he forgot that Loder was the sharer of his secret.  Even in
his extremity his fear of detection clung to him limply--the
lies that had become second nature slipped from him without
effort.  Then suddenly a fresh panic seized him; his fingers
tightened spasmodically, his eyes ceased to rove about the
room and settled on his companion's face.  "Can you see it,
Loder?" he cried.  "I can't--the light's in my eyes.  Can you
see it?  Can you see the tube?"  He lifted himself higher, an
agony of apprehension in his face.

Loder pushed him back upon the pillow.  He was striving hard
to keep his own mind cool, to steer his own course straight
through the chaos that confronted him.  "Chilcote," he began
once more, "you sent for me last night, and I came the first
thing this morning to tell you--"  But there he stopped.

With an excitement that lent him strength, Chilcote pushed
aside his hands.  "God!" he said, suddenly, "suppose 'twas
lost--suppose 'twas gone!"  The imaginary possibility gripped
him.  He sat up, his face livid, drops of perspiration showing
on his forehead, his whole shattered system trembling before
his thought.

At the sight, Loder set his lips.  "The tube is on the
mantel-shelf," he said, in a cold, abrupt voice.

A groan of relief fell from Chilcote and the muscles of his
face relaxed.  For a, moment he lay back with closed eyes;
then the desire that tortured him stirred afresh.  He lifted
his eyelids and looked at his companion.  "Hand it to me," he
said, quickly.  "Give it to me.  Give it to me, Loder.  Quick
as you can!  There's a glass on the table and some whiskey and
water.  The tabloids dissolve, you know--"  In his new
excitement he held out his hand.

But Loder stayed motionless.  He had come to fight, to demand,
to plead--if need be--for the one hour for which he had lived;
the hour that was to satisfy all labor, all endeavor, all
ambition.  With dogged persistence he made one more essay.

"Chilcote, you wrote last night to recall me--"  Once again he
paused, checked by a new interruption.  Sitting up again,
Chilcote struck out suddenly with his left hand in a rush of
his old irritability.

"Damn you!" he cried, suddenly, "what are you talking about?
Look at me!  Get me the stuff.  I tell you it's imperative."
In his excitement his breath failed and he coughed.  At the
effort his whole frame was shaken.

Loder walked to the dressing-table, then back to the bed.  A
deep agitation was at work in his mind.

Again Chilcote's lips parted.  "Loder," he said, faintly
--"Loder, I must--I must have it.  It's imperative."  Once
more he attempted to lift himself, but the effort was futile.

Again Loder turned away.

"Loder--for God's sake--"

With a fierce gesture the other turned on him.  "Good heavens!
man--" he began.  Then unaccountably his voice changed.  The
suggestion that had been hovering in his mind took sudden and
definite shape.  "All right!" he said, in a lower voice.  "All
right!  Stay as you are."

He crossed to where the empty tumbler stood and hastily mixed
the whiskey and water; then crossing to the mantel-piece where
lay the small glass tube containing the tightly packed
tabloids, he paused and glanced once more towards the bed.
"How many?" he said, laconically.

Chilcote lifted his head.  His face was pitiably drawn, but
the feverish brightness in his eyes had increased.  "Five," he
said, sharply.  "Five.  Do you hear, Loder?"

"Five?"  Involuntarily Loder lowered the hand that held the
tube.  From previous confidences of Chilcote's he knew the
amount of morphia contained in each tabloid, and realized that
five tabloids, if not an absolutely dangerous, was at least an
excessive dose, even for one accustomed to the drug.  For a
moment his resolution failed; then the dominant-note of his
nature--the unconscious, fundamental egotism on which his
character was based--asserted itself beyond denial.  It might
be reprehensible, it might even be criminal to accede to such
a request, made by a man in such a condition of body and mind;
yet the laws of the universe demanded self-assertion--prompted
every human mind to desire, to grasp, and to hold.  With a
perception swifter than any he had experienced, he realized
the certain respite to be gained by yielding to his impulse.
He looked at Chilcote with his haggard, anxious expression,
his eager, restless eyes; and a vision of himself followed
sharp upon his glance.  A vision of the untiring labor of the
past ten days, of the slowly kindling ambition, of the
supremacy all but gained.  Then, as the picture completed
itself, he lifted his hand with an abrupt movement and dropped
the five tabloids one after another into the glass.


XXV


Having taken a definite step in any direction, it was not in
Loder's nature to wish it retraced.  His face was set, but set
with determination, when he closed the outer door of his own
rooms and passed quietly down the stairs and out into the
silent court.  The thought of Chilcote, his pitiable
condition, his sordid environments, were things that required
a firm will to drive into the background of the imagination;
but a whole inferno of such visions would not have daunted
Loder on that morning as, unobserved by any eyes, he left the
little court-yard with its grass, its trees, its pavement--all
so distastefully familiar--and passed down the Strand towards
life and action.

As he walked, his steps increased in speed and vigor.  Now,
for the first time, he fully appreciated the great mental
strain that he had undergone in the past ten days--the
unnatural tension; the suppressed, but perpetual, sense of
impending recall; the consequently high pressure at which
work, and even existence, had been carried on.  And as he
hurried forward the natural reaction to this state of things
came upon him in a flood of security and confidence--a strong
realization of the temporary respite and freedom for which no
price would have seemed too high.  The moment for which he had
unconsciously lived ever since Chilcote's first memorable
proposition was within reach at last--safeguarded by his own
action.

The walk from Clifford's Inn to Grosvenor Square was long
enough to dispel any excitement that his interview had
aroused; and long before the well-known house came into view
he felt sufficiently braced mentally and physically to seek
Eve in the morning-room--where he instinctively felt she would
still be waiting for him.

Thus he encountered and overpassed the obstacle that had so
nearly threatened ruin; and, with the singleness of purpose
that always distinguished him, he was able, once having passed
it, to dismiss it altogether from his mind.  From the moment
of his return to Chilcote's house no misgiving as to his own
action, no shadow of doubt, rose to trouble his mind.  His
feelings on the matter were quite simple.  He had inordinately
desired a certain opportunity; one factor had arisen to debar
that opportunity, and he, claiming the right of strength, had
set the barrier aside.  In the simplicity of the reasoning lay
its power to convince; and were a tonic needed to brace him
for his task, he was provided with one in the masterful sense
of a difficulty set at nought.  For the man who has fought and
conquered one obstacle feels strong to vanquish a score.

It was on this day, at the reassembling of Parliament, that
Fraide's great blow was to be struck.  In the ten days since
the affair of the caravans had been reported from Persia
public feeling had run high, and it was upon the pivot of this
incident that Loder's attack was to turn; for, as Lakely was
fond of remarking, "In the scales of public opinion, one dead
Englishman has more weight than the whole Eastern Question!"
It had been arranged that, following the customary procedure,
Loder was to rise after questions at the morning sitting and
ask leave to move the adjournment of the House on a definite
matter of urgent public importance; upon which--leave having
been granted by the rising of forty members in his support
--the way was to lie open for his definite attack at the
evening sitting.  And it was with a mind attuned to this plan
of action that he retired to the study immediately he had
breakfasted, and settled to a final revision of his speech
before an early party conference should compel him to leave
the house.  But here again circumstances were destined to
change his programme.  Scarcely had he sorted his notes and
drawn his chair to Chilcote's desk than Renwick entered the
room with the same air of important haste that he had shown on
a previous occasion.

"A letter from Mr. Fraide, sir.  But there's no answer," he
said, with unusual brevity.

Loder waited till he had left the room, then he tore the
letter open.  He read:


"MY DEAR CHILCOTE,--Lakely is the recipient of special and
very vital news from Meshed--unofficial, but none the less
alarming.  Acts of Russian aggression towards British traders
are reported to be rapidly increasing, and it is stated that
the authority of the Consulate is treated with contempt.
Pending a possible confirmation of this, I would suggest that
you keep an open mind on the subject of to-night's speech.
By adopting an anticipatory--even an unprepared--attitude
you may find your hand materially strengthened.  I shall put
my opinions before you more explicitly when we meet.

                         "Yours faithfully,
                                 HERBERT FRAIDE."


The letter, worded with Fraide's usual restraint, made a
strong impression on its recipient.  The thought that his
speech might not only express opinions already tacitly held,
but voice a situation of intense and national importance,
struck him with full force.  For many minutes after he had
grasped the meaning of Fraide's message he sat neglectful of
his notes, his elbows resting on the desk, his face between
his hands, stirred by the suggestion that here might lie a
greater opportunity than any he had anticipated.

Still moved by this new suggestion, he attended the party
conclave that Fraide had convened, and afterwards lunched with
and accompanied his leader to the House.  They spoke very
little as they drove to Westminster, for each was engrossed by
his own thoughts.  Only once did Fraide allude to the incident
that was paramount in both their minds.  Then, turning to
Loder with a smile of encouragement, he had laid his fingers
for an instant on his arm.

"Chilcote," he had said, "when the time comes, remember you
have all my confidence."

Looking back upon that day, Loder often wondered at the
calmness with which he bore the uncertainty.  To sit
apparently unmoved, and wait without emotion for news that
might change the whole tenor of one's action, would have tried
the stoicism of the most experienced; to the novice it was
wellnigh unendurable.  And it was under these conditions, and
fighting against these odds, that he sat through the long
afternoon in Chilcote's place, obeying the dictates of his
chief.  But if the day was fraught with difficulties for him,
it was fraught with dulness and disappointment for others; for
the undercurrent of interest that had stirred at the Easter
adjournment, and risen with added force on this first day of
the new session, was gradually but surely threatened with
extinction, as hour after hour passed, bringing no suggestion
of the battle that had on every side been tacitly expected.
Slowly and unmistakably speculation and dissatisfaction crept
into the atmosphere of the House, as moment succeeded moment,
and the Opposition made no sign.  Was Fraide shirking the
attack?  Or was he playing a waiting game?  Again and again
the question arose, filling the air with a passing flicker of
interest; but each time it sprang up only to die down again,
as the ordinary business of the day dragged itself out.

Gradually, as the afternoon wore on, daylight began to fade.
Loder, sitting rigidly in Chilcote's place, watched with
suppressed inquiry the faces of the men who entered through
the constantly swinging doors; but not one face, so eagerly
scanned, carried the message for which he waited.
Monotonously and mechanically the time passed.  The
Government, adopting a neutral attitude, carefully skirted all
dangerous subjects; while the Opposition, acting under
Fraide's suggestion, assisted rather than hindered the
programme of postponement.  For the moment the, eagerly
anticipated reassembling threatened dismal failure; and it was
with a universal movement of weariness and relief that at last
the House rose to dine.

But there are no possibilities so elastic as those of
politics.  At half-past seven the House rose in a spirit of
boredom and disappointment; and at eight o'clock the lobbies,
the dining-room, the entire space of the vast building, was
stirred into activity by the arrival of a single telegraphic
message.

The new development for which Fraide had waited came indeed, but
it came with a force he had little anticipated.  With a thrill of
awe and consternation men heard and repeated the astounding news
that--while personally exercising his authority on behalf of
British traders--Sir William Brice-Field, Consul-General at
Meshed, had been fired at by a Russian officer and instantly
killed.

The interval immediately following the receipt of this news
was too confused for detailed remembrance.  Two ideas made
themselves slowly felt--a deep horror that such an event could
obtrude itself upon our high civilization, and a strong
personal dismay that so honored, distinguished, and esteemed a
representative as Sir William Brice-Field could have been
allowed to meet death in so terrible a manner.

It was in the consciousness of this feeling--the consciousness
that, in his own person, he might voice, not only the feelings
of his party, but those of the whole country--that Loder rose
an hour later to make his long-delayed attack.

He stood silent for a moment, as he had done on an earlier
occasion; but this time his motive was different.  Roused
beyond any feeling of self-consciousness, he waited as by
right for the full attention of the House; then quietly, but
with self-possessed firmness, he moved the motion for
adjournment.

Like a match to a train of powder, the words set flame to the
excitement that had smouldered for weeks; and in an atmosphere
of stirring activity, a scene of such tense and vital
concentration as the House has rarely witnessed, he found
inspiration for his great achievement.

To give Loder's speech in mere words would be little short of
futile.  The gift of oratory is too illusive, too much a
matter of eye and voice and individuality, to allow of cold
reproduction.  To those who heard him speak on that night of
April 18th the speech will require no recalling; and to those
who did not hear him there would be no substitute in bare
reproduction.

In the moment of action it mattered nothing to him that his
previous preparations were to a great extent rendered useless
by this news that had come with such paralyzing effect.  In
the sweeping consciousness of his own ability, he found added
joy in the freedom it opened up.  He ceased to consider that
by fate he was a Conservative, bound by traditional
conventionalities: in that great moment he knew himself
sufficiently a man to exercise whatever individuality instinct
prompted.  He forgot the didactic methods by which he had
proposed to show knowledge of his subject--both as a past and
a future factor in European politics.  With his own strong
appreciation of present things, he saw and grasped the vast
present interest lying beneath his hand.

For fifty minutes he held the interest of the House, speaking
insistently, fearlessly, commandingly on the immediate need of
action.  He unhesitatingly pointed out that the news which had
just reached England was not so much an appalling fact as a
sinister warning to those in whose keeping lay the safety of
the country's interests.  Lastly, with a fine touch of
eloquence, he paid tribute to the steadfast fidelity of such
men as Sir William Brice-Field, who, whatever political
complications arise at home, pursue their duty unswervingly on
the outposts of the empire.

At his last words there was silence--the silence that marks a
genuine effect--then all at once, with vehement, impressive
force, the storm of enthusiasm broke its bounds.

It was one of those stupendous bursts of feeling that no
etiquette, no decorum is powerful enough to quell.  As
he resumed his seat, very pale, but exalted as men are exalted
only once or twice in a lifetime, it rose about him--clamorous,
spontaneous, undeniable.  Near at hand were the faces of his
party, excited and triumphant; across the house were the faces
of Sefborough and his Ministry, uncomfortable and disturbed.

The tumult swelled, then fell away; and in the partial lull
that followed Fraide leaned over the back of his seat.  His
quiet, dignified expression was unaltered, but his eyes were
intensely bright.

"Chilcote," he whispered, "I don't congratulate you--or
myself.  I congratulate the country on possessing a great
man!"

The remaining features of the debate followed quickly one upon
the other; the electric atmosphere of the House possessed a
strong incentive power.  Immediately Loder's ovation had
subsided, the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs rose and in
a careful and non-incriminating reply defended the attitude of
the Government.

Next came Fraide, who, in one of his rare and polished
speeches, touched with much feeling upon his personal grief at
the news reported from Persia, and made emphatic indorsement
of Loder's words.

Following Fraide came one or two dissentient Liberals, and
then Sefborough himself closed the debate.  His speech was
masterly and fluent; but though any disquietude he may have
felt was well disguised under a tone of reassuring ease, the
attempt to rehabilitate his position--already weakened in more
than one direction--was a task beyond his strength.

Amid extraordinary excitement the division followed--and with
it a Government defeat.

It was not until half an hour after the votes had, been taken
that Loder, freed at last from persistent congratulations,
found opportunity to look for Eve.  In accordance with a
promise made that morning, he was to find her waiting outside
the Ladies' Gallery at the close of the debate.

Disengaging himself from the group of men who had surrounded
and followed him down the lobby, he discarded the lift and ran
up the narrow staircase.  Reaching the landing, he went
forward hurriedly; then with a certain abrupt movement he
paused.  In the doorway leading to the gallery Eve was waiting
for him.  The place was not brightly lighted, and she was
standing in the shadow; but it needed only a glance to assure
his recognition.  He could almost have seen in the dark that
night, so vivid were his perceptions.  He took a step towards
her, then again he stopped.  In a second glance he realized
that her eyes were bright with tears; and it was with the
strangest sensation he had ever experienced that the knowledge
flashed upon him.  Here, also, he had struck the same note
--the long-coveted note of supremacy.  It had rung out full and
clear as he stood in Chilcote's place dominating the House; it
had besieged him clamorously as he passed along the lobbies
amid a sea of friendly hands and voices; now in the quiet of
the deserted gallery it came home to him with deeper meaning
from the eyes of Chilcote's wife.

Without a thought he put out his hands and caught hers.

"I couldn't get away," he said.  "I'm afraid I'm very late."

With a smile that scattered her tears Eve looked up.  "Are
you?" she said, laughing a little.  "I don't know what the
time is.  I scarcely know whether it's night or day."

Still holding one of her hands, he drew her down the stairs;
but as they reached the last step she released her fingers.

"In the carriage!" she said, with another little laugh of
nervous happiness.

At the foot of the stairs they were surrounded.  Men whose
faces Loder barely knew crowded about him.  The intoxication
of excitement was still in the air--the instinct that a new
force had made itself felt, a new epoch been entered upon,
stirred prophetically in every mind.

Passing through the enthusiastic concourse of men, they came
unexpectedly upon Fraide and Lady Sarah surrounded by a group
of friends.  The old statesman came forward instantly, and,
taking Loder's arm, walked with him to Chilcote's waiting
brougham.  He said little as they slowly made their way to the
carriage, but the pressure of his fingers was tense and an
unwonted color showed in his face.  When Eve and Loder had
taken their seats he stepped to the edge of the curb.  They
were alone for the moment, and, leaning close to the carriage,
he put his hand through the open window.  In silence he took
Eve's fingers and held them in a long, affectionate pressure;
then he released them and took Loder's hand.

"Good-night, Chilcote," he said.  "You have proved yourself
worthy of her.  Good-night."  He turned quickly and rejoined
his waiting friends.  In another second the horses had wheeled
round, and Eve and Loder were carried swiftly forward into the
darkness.

In the great moments of man's life woman comes before--and
after.  Some shadow of this truth was in, Eve's mind as she
lay back in her seat with closed eyes, and parted lips.  It
seemed that life came to her now for the first time--came in
the glad, proud, satisfying tide of things accomplished.  This
was her hour: and the recognition of it brought the blood to
her face in a sudden, happy rush.  There had been no need to
precipitate its coming; it had been ordained from the first.
Whether she desired it or no, whether she strove to draw it
nearer or strove to ward it off, its coming had been
inevitable.  She opened her eyes suddenly and looked out into
the darkness--the darkness throbbing with multitudes of lives,
all awaiting, all desiring fulfilment.  She was no longer
lonely, no longer aloof; she was kin with all this pitiful,
admirable, sinning, loving humanity.  Again tears of pride and
happiness filled her eyes.  Then suddenly the thing she had
waited for came to pass.

Loder leaned close to her.  She was conscious of his nearer
presence, of his strong, masterful personality.  With a thrill
that caught her breath, she felt his arm.  about her shoulder
and heard the sound of his voice.

"Eve," he said,--"I love you.  Do you understand I love you."
And drawing her close to him he bent and kissed her.

With Loder, to do was to do fully.  When he gave, he gave
generously; when he swept aside a barrier he left no stone
standing.  He had been slow to recognize his capacities
--slower still to recognize his feelings.  But now that the
knowledge came he received it openly.  In this matter of newly
comprehended love he gave no thought to either past or future.
That they loved and were alone was all he knew or questioned.
She was as much Eve--the one woman--as though they were
together in the primeval garden; and in that spirit he claimed
her.

He neither spoke nor behaved extravagantly in that great
moment of comprehension.  He acted quietly, with the
completeness of purpose that he gave to everything.  He had
found a new capacity within himself, and he was strong enough
to dread no weakness in displaying it.

Holding her close to him, he repeated his declaration again
and again, as though repetition ratified it.  He found no need
to question her feeling for him--he had divined it in a flash
of inspiration as she stood waiting in the doorway of the
gallery; but his own surrender was a different matter.

As the carriage passed round the corner of Whitehall and
dipped into the traffic of Piccadilly he bent down again until
her soft hair brushed his face; and the warm personal contact,
the slight, fresh smell of violets so suggestive of her
presence, stirred' him afresh.

"Eve," he said, vehemently, "do you understand?  Do you know
that I have loved you always--from the very first?"  As he
said it he bent still nearer, kissing her lips, her forehead,
her hair.

At the same moment the horses slackened speed and then stopped,
arrested by one of the temporary blocks that so often occur in
the traffic of Piccadillv Circus.

Loder, preoccupied with his own feelings, scarcely noticed the
halt, but Eve drew away from him laughing.

"You mustn't!" she said, softly.  "Look!"

The carriage had stopped beside one of the small islands that
intersect the place; a group of pedestrians were crowded upon
it, under the light of the electric lamp--wayfarers who, like
themselves, were awaiting a passage.  A century ago, the
interior of Africa was a sealed book to the civilized world.

Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians, had been noticed in
Holy Writ; the Nile with Thebes and Memphis on its banks,
and a ship-canal to the Red Sea with triremes on its surface,
had not escaped the eye of Herodotus: but the
countries which gave birth to Queen and River were alike unknown.

The sunny fountains, the golden sands, the palmy plains of
Africa were to be traced in the verses of the poet; but he
dealt neither in latitude nor longitude. The maps presented
a _terra incognita_, or sterile mountains, where modern
travellers have found rivers, lakes, and alluvial basins,--or
exhibited barren wastes, where recent discoveries find rich
meadows annually flowed, studded with walled towns and cities,
enlivened by herds of cattle, or cultivated in plantations of maize
and cotton.

Although the northern coast of Africa had once been the
granary of Carthage and Rome, cultivation had receded, and the
corn-ship of antiquity had given place to the felucca of the corsair,
preying upon the commerce of Europe.

A few caravans, laden with a little ivory and gold-dust or a
few packages of drugs and spices, crept across the Desert, and
the slave-trade principally, if not alone, drew to Africa the
attention of civilized nations. Egypt, Tripoli and Tunis, Turkey
and the Spanish Provinces, the West India Isles and the Southern
States, knew it as the mart where human beings were bought and sold;
and Christians were reconciled to the traffic by the hope that it
might contribute to the moral, if not physical, welfare of the
captive, by his removal to a more civilized region.

During the last three centuries, millions of Africans have
perished either on their way to slavery or in exhausting toil under
a tropical sun; and the flag of England has been the most prominent
in this demoralizing traffic.

But it is due to England to say, that, since she withdrew
from it, she has aimed to atone for the past by a noble
and persevering devotion to the improvement of Africa.
"It's nothing," he said.  "Nothing to worry about."  He spoke
quickly, but his voice had suddenly become flat.  All the
command, all the domination had dropped away from it.

Eve bent close to him, her face lighting up with anxious
tenderness.  "It was the excitement," she said, "the strain of
tonight."

He looked at her; but he made no attempt to press the fingers
that clasped his own.

"Yes," he said, slowly.  "Yes.  It was the excitement of
to-night--and the reaction."


XXVI


The next morning at eight o'clock, and again without
breakfast, Loder covered the distance between Grosvenor Square
and Clifford's Inn.  He left Chilcote's house hastily--with a
haste that only an urgent motive could have driven him to
adopt.  His steps were quick and uneven as he traversed the
intervening streets; his shoulders lacked their decisive pose,
and his pale face was marked with shadows beneath the eyes
--shadows that bore witness to the sleepless night spent in
pacing Chilcote's vast and lonely room.  "Conception" also denotes
something framed and originated in our _own_ mind; whereas
the imagination or fancy may be acted on merely from without.
The poet or writer of fiction exercises his own conceptions,
but awakens the imagination of his readers.'
The irony of this last element in the day's concerns came to
him fully when one newsboy, more energetic than his fellows,
thrust a paper in front of him.

"Sensation in the 'Ouse, sir!  Speech by Mr. Chilcote!
Government defeat!"

For a moment Loder stopped and his face reddened.  The tide of
emotions still ran strong.  His hand went instinctively to his
pocket; then his lips set.  He shook his head and walked on.

With the same hard expression about his mouth, he turned into
Clifford's Inn, passed through his own doorway, and mounted
the stairs.

