Then he was almost angry. "I can make plenty of such opportunities
for myself, when I want them," he said. "Of course if you and Lady
Augustus like it, we will go. But let it stand on its right
bottom."

"It may stand on any bottom you please."

"Do you mean to ride the man's horse?"

"Certainly I do. I never refuse a good offer. Why shouldn't I ride
the man's horse? Did you never hear before of a young lady
borrowing a gentleman's horse?"

"No lady belonging to me will ever do so, unless the gentleman be a
very close friend indeed."

"The lady in this case does not belong to you, Mr. Morton, and
therefore, if you have no other objection, she will ride Lord
Rufford's horse. Perhaps you will not think it too much trouble to
signify the lady's acceptance of the mount in your letter." Then
she swam out of the room knowing that she left him in anger. After
that he had to find Mr. Gotobed. The going was now decided on as
far as he was concerned, and it would make very little difference
whether the American went or not,--except that his letter would
have been easier to him in accepting the invitation for three
persons than for four. But the Senator was of course willing. It
was the Senator's object to see England, and Lord Rufford's house
would be an additional bit of England. The Senator would be
delighted to have an opportunity of saying what he thought about
Goarly at Lord Rufford's table. After that, before this weary
letter could be written, he was compelled to see his grandmother
and explain to her that she had been omitted.

On these trips he often accompanied his nephew. The movement of the
docks he had some music reminiscent of his youth, when he sailed
as medical trasatlántico; squeaks crane, rolling carts, melopeas
deaf shippers.

Of course he knew that I was here. I shouldn't have gone;--
you may be sure of that. I'm not in the habit of going to the
houses of people I don't know. Indeed I think it's an impertinence
in them to ask in that way. I'm surprised that you would go on such
an invitation."

"The Trefoils knew them."

"If Lady Penwether knew them why could not Lady Penwether ask them
independently of us? I don't believe they ever spoke to Lady
Penwether in their lives. Lord Rufford and Miss Trefoil may very
likely be London acquaintances. He may admire her and therefore
choose to have her at his ball. I know nothing about that. As far
as I am concerned he's quite welcome to keep her."

All this was not very pleasant to John Morton. He knew already that
his grandmother and Lady Augustus hated each other, and said
spiteful things not only behind each other's backs, but openly to
each other's faces. But now he had been told by the girl who was
engaged to be his wife that she did not belong to him; and by his
grandmother, who stood to him in the place of his mother, that she
wished that this girl belonged to some one else! He was not quite
sure that he did not wish it himself. But, even were it to be so,
and should there be reason for him to be gratified at the escape,
still he did not relish the idea of taking the girl himself to the
other man's house. He wrote the letter, however, and dispatched it.
But even the writing of it was difficult and disagreeable. When
various details of hospitality have been offered by a comparative
stranger a man hardly likes to accept them all. But in this case he
had to do it. He would be delighted, he said, to stay at Rufford
Hall from the Monday to the Wednesday;--Lady Augustus and Miss
Trefoil would also be delighted; and so also would Mr. Gotobed be
delighted. And Miss Trefoil would be further delighted to accept
Lord Rufford's offer of a horse for the Tuesday. As for himself, if
he rode at all, a horse would come for him to the meet. Then he
wrote another note to Mr. Harry Stubbings, bespeaking a mount for
the occasion.

On that evening the party at Bragton was not a very pleasant one.
"No doubt you are intimate with Lady Penwether, Lady Augustus,"
said Mrs. Morton. Now Lady Penwether was a very fashionable woman
whom to know was considered an honour.

"What makes you ask, ma'am?" said Lady Augustus.

"Only as you were taking your daughter to her brother's house, and
as he is a bachelor."

"My dear Mrs. Morton, really you may leave me to take care of
myself and of my daughter too. You have lived so much out of the
world for the last thirty years that it is quite amusing."

"There are some persons' worlds that it is a great deal better for
a lady to be out of," said Mrs. Morton. Then Lady Augustus put up
her hands, and turned round, and affected to laugh, of all which
things Mr. Gotobed, who was studying English society, made notes in
his own mind.

"What sort of position does that man Goarly occupy here?" the
Senator asked immediately after dinner.

"No position at all," said Morton.

"Every man created holds some position as I take it. The land is
his own."

"He has I believe about fifty acres."

"And yet he seems to be in the lowest depth of poverty and
ignorance."

"Of course he mismanages his property and probably drinks."

"I dare say, Mr. Morton. He is proud of his rights, and talked of
his father and his grandfather, and yet I doubt whether you would
find a man so squalid and so ignorant in all the States. I suppose
he is injured by having a lord so near him."

"Quite the contrary if he would be amenable."

"You mean if he would be a creature of the lord's. And why was that
other man so uncivil to me;--the man who was the lord's
gamekeeper?"

"Because you went there as a friend of Goarly."

"And that's his idea of English fair play?" asked the Senator with
a jeer.

"The truth is, Mr. Gotobed," said Morton endeavouring to explain it
all, "you see a part only and not the whole. That man Goarly is a
rascal."

"So everybody says."

"And why can't you believe everybody?"

"So everybody says on the lord's side. But before I'm done I'll
find out what people say on the other side. I can see that he is
ignorant and squalid; but that very probably is the lord's fault.
It may be that he is a rascal and that the lord is to blame for
that too. But if the lord's pheasants have eaten up Goarly's corn,
the lord ought to pay for the corn whether Goarly be a rascal or
not" Then John Morton made up his mind that he would never ask
another American Senator to his house.


CHAPTER XVIII

The Attorney's Family is disturbed


On that Wednesday evening Mary Masters said nothing to any of her
family as to the invitation from Lady Ushant. She very much wished
to accept it. Latterly, for the last month or two, her distaste to
the kind of life for which her stepmother was preparing her, had
increased upon her greatly. There bad been days in which she had
doubted whether it might not be expedient that she should accept
Mr. Twentyman's offer. She believed no ill of him. She thought him
to be a fine manly young fellow with a good heart and high
principles. She never asked herself whether he were or were not a
gentleman. She had never even inquired of herself whether she
herself were or were not especially a lady. But with all her
efforts to like the man,--because she thought that by doing so she
would relieve and please her father,--yet he was distasteful to
her; and now, since that walk home with him from Bragton Bridge, he
was more distasteful than ever. She did not tell herself that a
short visit, say for a month, to Cheltenham, would prevent his
further attentions, but she felt that there would be a temporary
escape. I do not think that she dwelt much on the suggestion that
Reginald Morton should be her companion on the journey, but the
idea of such companionship, even for a short time, was pleasant to
her. If he did this surely then he would forgive her for having
left him at the bridge. She had much to think of before she could
resolve how she should tell her tidings. Should she show the letter
first to her stepmother or to her father? In the ordinary course of
things in that house the former course would be expected. It was
Mrs. Masters who managed everything affecting the family. It was
she who gave permission or denied permission for every indulgence.
She was generally fair to the three girls, taking special pride to
herself for doing her duty by her stepdaughter;--but on this very
account she was the more likely to be angry if Mary passed her by
on such an occasion as this and went to her father. - Does anyone
know what happened? Toni lifted shoulders. "No one ..." He had
gotten into steam, appeasing the dog on board that bark fiercely.
The man on duty had heard the shots, they were imagining a fight
sailors.The Mortons, and especially
Lady Ushant, had been her father's friends in old days and she
thought that perhaps she might prevail in this case if she could
speak to her father first. She knew well what would be the great,
or rather the real objection. Her mother would not wish that she
should be removed so long from Larry Twentyman. There might be
difficulties about her clothes, but her father, she knew would be
kind to her.

At last she made up her mind that she would ask her father. He was
always at his office-desk for half an hour in the morning, before
the clerks had come, and on the following day, a minute or two
after he had taken his seat, she knocked at the door. He was busy
reading a letter from Lord Rufford's man of business, asking him
certain questions about Goarly and almost employing him to get up
the case on Lord Rufford's behalf. There was a certain triumph to
him in this. It was not by his means that tidings had reached Lord
Rufford of his refusal to undertake Goarly's case. But Runciman,
who was often allowed by his lordship to say a few words to him in
the hunting-field, had mentioned the circumstance. "A man like Mr.
Masters is better without such a blackguard as that," the Lord had
said. Then Runciman had replied, "No doubt, my Lord; no doubt. But
Dillsborough is a poor place, and business is business, my Lord."
Then Lord Rufford had remembered it, and the letter which the
attorney was somewhat triumphantly reading had been the
consequence.

"Is that you, Mary? What can I do for you, my love?"

"Papa, I want you to read this." Then Mr. Masters read the letter.
"I should so like to go."

"Should you, my dear?"

"Oh yes! Lady Ushant has been so kind to me, all my life! And I do
so love her!"

"What does mamma say?"

"I haven't asked mamma."

"Is there any reason why you shouldn't go?"

Of that one reason,--as to Larry Twentyman,--of course she would
say nothing. She must leave him to discuss that with her mother. "I
should want some clothes, papa; a dress, and some boots, and a new
hat, and there would be money for the journey and a few other
things." The attorney winced, but at the same time remembered that
something was due to his eldest child in the way of garments and
relaxation. "I never like to be an expense, papa."

"You are very good about that, my dear. I don't see why you
shouldn't go. It's very kind of Lady Ushant. I'll talk to mamma."
Then Mary went away to get the breakfast, fearing that before long
there would be black looks in the house.

Mr. Masters at once went up to his wife, having given himself a
minute or two to calculate that he would let Mary have twenty
pounds for the occasion,--and made his proposition. "I never heard
of such nonsense in my life," said Mrs. Masters.

"Nonsense,--my dear! Why should it be nonsense?"

"Cocking her up with Lady Ushant! What good will Lady Ushant do
her? She's not going to live with ladies of quality all her life."

