Art. 74. The President may suspend the session of either the
Senate or the House of Representatives for a period not exceeding
ten days, but during any one session, he may not exercise this
right more than once.

Art. 75. With the concurrence of two-thirds or more of the members
of the Senate present, the President may dissolve the House of
Representatives, but there must not be a second dissolution during
the period of the same session.

When the House of Representatives is dissolved by the President,
another election shall take place immediately, and the convocation
of the House at a fixed date within five months should be effected
to continue the session.

Art. 76. With the exception of high treason, no criminal charges
shall be brought against the President before he has vacated his
office.

Art. 77. The salaries of the President and Vice-President shall be
fixed by law.


CHAPTER VII. THE CABINET


Art. 78. The Cabinet shall be composed of the Cabinet Ministers.

Art. 79. The Premier and the Ministers of the various ministries
shall be called the Cabinet Ministers.

Art. 80. The appointment of the Premier shall be approved by the
House of Representatives.

Should a vacancy in the Premiership occur during the time of
adjournment of the National Assembly, the President may appoint an
Acting-Premier, but it shall be required that the appointment must
be submitted to the House of Representatives for approval within
seven days after the convening of the next session.

Art. 81. Cabinet Ministers shall assist the President and shall be
responsible to the House of Representatives.

Without the counter-signature of the Cabinet Minister to whose
Ministry the Mandate or dispatch applies, the mandate or dispatch
of the President in connection with State affairs shall not be
valid; but this shall not apply to the appointment or dismissal of
the Premier.

Art. 82. When a vote of want of confidence in the Cabinet
Ministers is passed, if the President does not dissolve the House
of Representatives according to the provisions made in Art. 75, he
should remove the Cabinet Ministers.

Art. 83. The Cabinet Ministers shall be allowed to attend both
Houses and make speeches, but in case of introducing bills for the
Executive Department, their delegates may act for them.


CHAPTER VIII. COURTS OF JUSTICE


Art. 84. The Judicial authority of the Republic of China shall be
exercised by the Courts of Justice exclusively.

Art. 85. The organization of the Courts of Justice and the
qualifications of the Judges shall be fixed by law.

The appointment of the Chief-Justice of the Supreme Court should
have the approval of the Senate. Art. 86. The Judiciary shall
attend to and settle all civil, criminal administrative and other
cases, but this does not include those cases which have been
specially provided for by the Constitution or law.

Art. 87. The trial of cases in the law courts shall be conducted
publicly, but those affecting public peace and order or propriety
may be held in camera.

Art. 88. The Judges shall be independent in the conducting of
trials and none shall be allowed to interfere.

Art. 89. Except in accordance with law, judges, during their
continuation of office shall not have their emoluments decreased,
nor be transferred to other offices, nor shall they be removed
from office.

During his tenure of office, no judge shall be deprived of his
office unless he is convicted of crime, or for offences punishable
by law. But the above does not include cases of reorganization of
Judicial Courts and when the qualification of the Judges are
modified. The punishments and fines of the Judicial Officials
shall be fixed by law.


CHAPTER IX. LEGISLATION


Art. 90. The members of both Houses and the Executive Department
may introduce bills of law, but if any bill of law is rejected by
the House it shall not be re-introduced during the same session.

Art. 91. Any bill of law which has been passed by the National
Assembly shall be promulgated by the President within 15 days
after receipt of the same.

Art. 92. Should the President disapprove of any bill of law passed
by the National Assembly, he shall within the period allowed for
promulgation, state the reason of his disapproval and request the
re-consideration of the same by the National Assembly.

If a bill of law has not yet been submitted with a request for
consideration and the period for promulgation has passed; it shall
become law. But the above shall not apply to the case when the
session of the National Assembly is adjourned, or, the House of
Representatives dissolved before the period for the promulgation
is ended.

Art. 93. The law shall not be altered or repealed except in
accordance with the law.

Art. 94. Any law that is in conflict with the Constitution shall
not be valid.


CHAPTER X. NATIONAL FINANCE


Art. 95. The introductions of new taxes and alterations in the
rate of taxation shall be fixed by law.

Art. 96. (Eliminated.)

Art. 97. The approval of the National Assembly must be obtained
for National loans, or the conclusion of agreements which tend to
increase the burden of the National Treasury.

Art. ... Financial bills involving direct obligation on the part
of the citizens shall first be submitted to the House of
Representatives.

Art. 98. The Executive Department of the Government shall prepare
a budget setting forth expenditures and receipts of the Nation for
the fiscal year which shall be submitted to the House of
Representatives within 15 days after the opening of the session of
the National Assembly.

Should the Senate amend or reject the budget passed by the House
of Representatives, it shall request the concurrence of the House
of Representatives in its amendment or rejection, and, if such
concurrence is not obtained, the budget shall be considered as
passed.

Art. 99. In case of special provisions, the Executive Department
may fix in advance in the budget the period over which the
appropriations are to be spread and may provide for the successive
appropriations continuing over this period.

Art. 100. In order to provide for a safe margin for under-
estimates or for items left out of the budget, the Executive
Department may include contingent items in the budget under the
heading of Reserve Fund. The sum expended under the above
provision shall be submitted to the House of Representatives at
the next session for recognition. Art. 101. Unless approved by the
Executive Department, the National Assembly shall have no right to
abolish or curtail any of the following items:

(1) Items in connection with obligations of the Government
according to law.

(2) Items necessitated by the observance of treaties.

(3) Items legally fixed.

(4) Successive appropriations continuing over a period.

Art. 102. The National Assembly shall not increase the annual
expenditures as set down in the budget.

Art. 103. In case the budget is not yet passed, when the fiscal
year begins, the Executive Department may, during this period,
follow the budget for the preceding year by limiting its
expenditures and receipts by one-twelfth of the total amount for
each month.

Art. 104. Should there be a defensive war against foreign
invasion, or should there be a suppression of internal rebellion,
or provide against extraordinary calamity, when it is impossible
to issue writs for summoning the National Assembly, the Executive
Department may adopt financial measures for the emergency, but it
should request the recognition thereof by the House of
Representatives within seven days after the convening of the next
session of the National Assembly.

Art. 105. Orders on the Treasury for payments on account of the
annual expenditures of the Government shall first be passed by the
Auditing Department.

Art. 106. Accounts of the annual expenditures and annual receipts
for each year should first be referred to the Auditing Department
for investigation and then the Executive Department shall report
the same to the National Assembly.

If the account be rejected by the House of Representatives, the
Cabinet shall be held responsible.

Art. 107. The method of organization of the Auditing Department
and the qualification of the Auditors shall be fixed by law.

During his tenure of office, the auditor shall not be dismissed or
transferred to any other duty or his salary be reduced except in
accordance with the law.

The manner of punishment of Auditors shall be fixed by law.

Art. 108. The Chief of the Auditing Department shall be elected by
the Senate. The Chief of the Auditing Department may attend
sittings of both Houses and report on the Audit with explanatory
statements.


CHAPTER XI. AMENDMENTS, INTERPRETATION AND INVIOLABILITY OF THE
CONSTITUTION


Art. 109. The National Assembly may bring up bills for the
amendment of the National Constitution.

Bills of this nature shall not take effect unless approved by two-
thirds of the members of each House present.

No bill for the amendment of the Constitution shall be introduced
unless signed by one-fourth of the members of each House.

Art. 110. The amendment of the National Constitution shall be
discussed and decided by the National Constitutional Conference.

Art. 111. No proposal for a change of the form of Government shall
be allowed as a subject for amendment.

Art. 112. Should there be any doubt as to the meaning of the text
of the Constitution, it shall be interpreted by the National
Constitutional Conference.

Art. 113. The National Constitutional Conference shall be composed
of the members of the National Assembly.

Unless there be a quorum of two-thirds of the total number of the
members of the National Assembly, no Constitutional Conference
shall be held, and unless three-fourths of the members present
vote in favour, no amendment shall be passed. But with regard to
the interpretation of the Constitution, only two-thirds of the
members present is required to decide an issue.

Art. ... The National Constitution shall be the Supreme Law of
the land and shall be inviolable under any circumstances unless
duly amended in accordance with the procedure specified in this
Constitution.

[V] A Chapter on Provincial or local organization is to be
inserted under Chapter ... providing for certain powers and rights
to be given to local governments with the residual power left in
the hands of the central government. The exact text is not yet
settled.

Note: The Mark (*) indicated that the article has already been
formally adopted as a part of the finished Constitution.

The mark (V) indicates that the article has not yet passed through
the second reading.

Those without marks have passed through the second reading on May
28th, 1917. Articles bearing no number are additions to the
original draft as presented to the Conference by the Drafting
Committee.

 THE LOCAL SYSTEM

DRAFT SUBMITTED TO PARLIAMENT

The following Regulations on the Local System have been referred
to the Parliamentary Committee for consideration:--

Article 1. The Local System shall embrace provinces and hsien
districts.

Any change for the existing division of provinces and hsien
districts shall be decided by the Senate. As to Mongolia, Tibet,
Chinghai and other places where no provinces and hsien districts
have been fixed, Parliament shall enforce these regulations there
in future.

Art. 2. A province shall have the following duties and rights: (a)
To fix local laws. (b) To manage provincial properties, (c) To
attend to the affairs in connexion with police organization,
sanitation, conservancy, roads, and public works, (d) To develop
education and industry in accordance with the order and mandates
of the Central Government. (e) To improve its navigation and
telegraphic lines, or to undertake such enterprises with the co-
operation of other provinces, (f) To organize precautionary troops
for the protection of local interests, the method of whose
organization, uniforms and arms shall be similar to those of the
National Army. With the exception of the matter of declaring war
against foreign countries, the President shall have no power to
transfer these troops to other provinces: and unless the province
is unable to suppress its own internal troubles, it shall not ask
the Central Government for the service of the National Army, (g)
The province shall defray its own expenses for the administration
and the maintenance of precautionary troops; but the provinces
which have hitherto received subsidies, shall continue to receive
same from the National Treasury with the approval of Parliament.
(h) Land, Title Deed, License, Mortgage, Tobacco and Wine,
Butchery, Fishery and all other principal and additional taxes
shall be considered as local revenues, (i) The province may fix
rates for local tax or levy additional tax on the National Taxes.
(j) The province shall have a provincial treasury. (k) It may
raise provincial public loans. (l) It shall elect a certain number
of Senators, (m) It shall fix regulations for the smaller local
Self-Governing Bodies.

Art. 3. Besides the above rights and privileges, a province shall
bear the following responsibilities:

(a) In case of financial difficulties of the Central Government,
it shall share the burden according to the proportion of its
revenue, (b) It shall enforce the laws and mandates promulgated by
the Central Government, (c) It shall enforce the measures
entrusted by the Central Government, but the latter shall bear the
expenses. (d) In case the local laws and regulations are in
conflict with those of the Central Government the latter may with
the approval of Parliament cancel or modify the same. (e) In case
of great necessity the provincial telegraph, railway, etc., may be
utilized by the Central Government. (f) In case of negligence, or
blunder made by the provincial authorities, which injures the
interests of the nation, the Central Government, with the approval
of Parliament, may reprimand and rectify same, (g) It shall not
make laws on the grant of monopoly and of copyrights; neither
issue bank notes, manufacture coins, make implements of weights
and measures; neither grant the right to local banks to manage the
Government Treasury; nor sign contracts with foreigners on the
purchase or sale of lands and, mines, or mortgage land tax to them
or construct naval harbours or arsenals, (h) All local laws,
budgets, and other important matters shall be reported to the
President from time to time, (i) The Central Government may
transfer to itself the ownership of enterprises or rights which
Parliament has decided should become national, (j) In case of a
quarrel arising between the Central Government and the province,
or between provinces, it shall be decided by Parliament, (k) In
case of refusal to obey the orders of the Central Government, the
President with the approval of Parliament may change the Shenchang
(Governor) or dissolve the Provincial Assembly. (l) The President
with the approval of Parliament may suppress by force any province
which defies the Central Authorities.

Art. 4. A Shenchang shall be appointed for each province to
represent the Central Government in the supervision of the local
administration. The appointment shall be made with the approval of
the Senate, the term of office for the Shenchang shall be four
years, and his annual salary shall be $24,000, which shall be paid
out of the National Treasury.

Art. 5. The administration measures entrusted by the Government to
the Shenchang shall be enforced by the administrative organs under
his supervision, and he shall be responsible for same.

Art. 6. In the enforcement of the laws and mandates of the Central
Government, or of the laws and regulations of his province, he may
issue orders.

Art. 7. The province shall establish the following five
Departments, namely Interior, Police, Finance, Education and
Industry. There shall be one Department Chief for each Department,
to be appointed by the Shenchang.

Art. 8. A Provincial Council shall be organized to assist the
Shenchang to enforce the administrative measures, and it shall be
responsible to the Provincial Assembly for same.

This Council shall be composed of all the Departmental Chiefs, and
five members elected out of the Provincial Assembly. It shall
discuss the Bills on Budget, on administration, and on the
organization, of police forces, submitted by the Shenchang.

Art. 9. If one member of the Council be impeached by the
Provincial Assembly, the Shenchang shall replace him, but if the
whole body of the Council be impeached, the Shenchang shall either
dissolve the Assembly or dismiss all his Departmental Chiefs. In
one session the Assembly shall not be dissolved twice, and after
two months of the dissolution, it shall be convened again.

Art. 10. The organization and election of the Provincial Assembly
shall be fixed by law.

Art. 11. The Provincial Assembly shall have the following duties
and powers: (a) It may pass such laws as allowed by the
Constitution, (b) It may pass the bills on the provincial Budget
and Accounts, (c) It may impeach the members of the Provincial
Council. (d) It may address interpellations or give suggestions to
the Provincial Council. (e) It may elect Members for the
Provincial Council. (f) It may attend to the petitions submitted
by the public.

Art. 12. A Magistrate shall be appointed for each hsien district
to enforce administrative measures. He shall be appointed directly
by the Shenchang, and his term of office shall be three years.

Art. 13. The Central Government shall hold examinations in the
provinces for candidates for the Magistracy. In a province half of
the total number of magistrates shall be natives of the province
and the other half of other provinces; but a native shall hold
office of Magistrate 300 li away from his home.

Art. 14. The organization for the legislative organ of the hsien
district shall be fixed by law.

TARIFF REVISION IN CHINA

The following is a translation of a memorandum prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce regarding abolition of likin
and an increase of the Customs duties:--

THE MEMORANDUM

"Disproportionate taxation on commodities at inland towns and
cities tends to cripple the productive power of a country. Acting
upon this principle, France in the 17th, England, America, Germany
and Austria in the 18th Century abolished such kind of taxation,
the Customs tariff remaining, which is a levy on imports at the
first port of entry. Its purpose is to increase the cost of
production of imported goods and to serve as a protection of
native products (sic). Raw materials from abroad are, however,
exempt from Customs duty in order to provide cheap material for
home manufactures. An altogether different state of affairs,
however, exists in this country. Likin stations are found
throughout the country, while raw materials are taxed. Take the
Hangchow silk for instance. When transported to the Capital for
sale, it has to pay a tax on raw material of 18 per cent. Foreign
imported goods on the other hand, are only taxed at the rate of
five per cent, ad valorem Customs duty at the first port of entry
with another 2.5 per cent, transit duty at one of the other ports
through which the goods pass. Besides these only landing duty is
imposed upon imported goods at the port of destination. Upon
timber being shipped from Fengtien and Antung to Peking, it has to
pay duties at five different places, the total amount of which
aggregates 20 per cent, of its market value, while timber from
American is taxed only ten per cent. Timber from Jueichow to
Hankow and Shanghai is taxed at six different places, the total
amount of duty paid aggregating 17.5 per cent., while timber
imported from abroad to these ports is required to pay Customs
duty only one-third thereof. The above-mentioned rates on native
goods are the minimum. Not every merchant can, however, obtain
such special "exemption," without a long negotiation and special
arrangements with the authorities. Otherwise, a merchant must pay
25 per cent, of the market value of his goods as duty. For this
reason the import of timber into this country has greatly
increased within the last few years, the total amount of which
being valued at $13,000,000 a year. Is this not a great injustice
to native merchants?

THE CHINESE METHOD

"Respecting the improvement of the economic condition of the
people, a country can hardly attain this object without developing
its foreign commerce. The United States of America, Germany and
Japan have one by one abolished their export duty as well as made
appropriations for subsidies to encourage the export of certain
kinds of commodities. We, on the other hand, impose likin all
along the line upon native commodities destined for foreign market
in addition to export duty. Goods for foreign market are more
heavily taxed than for home consumption. Take the Chekiang silk
for instance. Silk for export is more heavily taxed than that for
home use. Different rates of taxation are imposed upon tea for
foreign and home market. Other kinds of native products for export
are also heavily taxed with the result that, within the last two
decades, the annual exports of this country are exceeded by
imports by over Tls. 640,000,000,000. From the 32nd year of the
reign of Kuang Hsu to the 4th year of the Republic, imports exceed
exports on the average by Tls. 120,000,000. These figures speak
for themselves.

LIKIN

"Likin stations have been established at places where railway
communication is available. This has done a good deal of harm to
transportation and the railway traffic. Lately a proposal has been
made in certain quarters that likin stations along the railways be
abolished; and the measure has been adopted by the Peking-Tientsin
and Tientsin-Pukow Railways at certain places. When the towns and
cities throughout the country are connected by railways, there
will be no place for likin stations. With the increase in the
number of treaty ports, the "likin zone" will be gradually
diminished. Thencefrom the proceeds from likin will be decreased
year by year.

"Owing to the collection of likin the development of both home and
foreign trade has been arrested and the people are working under
great disadvantages. Hence in order to develop foreign and home
trade, the Government must do away with likin, which will bring
back business prosperity, and in time the same will enable the
Government to obtain new sources of revenues.

"From the above-mentioned considerations, the Government can
hardly develop and encourage trade without the abolition of likin.
By treaty with Great Britain, America and Japan, the Government
can increase the rate of Customs tariff to cover losses due to the
abolition of likin. The question under consideration is not a new
one. But the cause which has prevented the Government from
reaching a prompt decision upon this question is the fear that,
after the abolition of likin, the proceeds from the increased
Customs tariff would not be sufficient to cover the shortage
caused by the abolition of likin.

COST OF ABOLITION OF LIKIN

But such a fear should disappear when the Authorities remember the
following facts:--

(a) The loss as the result of the abolition of likin: $38,900,000.

(b) The loss as the result of the abolition of a part of duty
collected by the native Customs houses: $7,300,000.

(c) Annual proceeds from different kinds of principal and
miscellaneous taxes which shall be done away with the abolition of
likin $11,800,000.

The above figures are determined by comparing the actual amount of
proceeds collected by the Government in the 3rd and 4th years of
the Republic with the estimated amount in the Budget of the fifth
year. The total amount of loss caused by the abolition of likin
will be $58,000,000.

INCREASE OF CUSTOMS TARIFF

The amount of increase in the Customs tariff which the Government
expects to collect is as follows:--

(a) The increase in import duties $29,000,000.

(b) The increase in export duties Tls. 6,560,000.

The above figures are determined according to the Customs returns
of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th years of the Republic. By deducting Tls.
2,200,000 of transit duty, the net increase will be Tls.
33,600,000 taels, which is equal to $48,500,000. For the sake of
prudence, allowance of five per cent, of the total amount is made
against any incidental shortage. The net revenue thus increased
would amount to $46,100,000. Against the loss of $58,000,000,
there will be a shortage of some $11,900,000. This, however, will
not be difficult to make good by new sources of revenue as the
result of a tariff revision:--

(a) Tax on goods at the time of manufacture $800,000.

(b) Tax on goods at the time of sale $8,000,000.

(c) Tax on cattle and slaughtering houses $2,000,000.

(d) Tax on foodstuffs $4,000,000.

"Under (a) and (b) are the taxes to be collected on native made
foreign imitation goods and various kinds of luxurious articles.
Under (c) and (d) are taxes which are already enforced in the
provinces but which can be increased to that much by reorganizing
the method of collection. The total sum of the proceeds set forth
under above items will amount to $14,800,000. These will be quite
sufficient to cover the loss caused by the abolition of likin.

A VITAL INTEREST

"As the abolition of likin concerns the vital interest of the
merchants and manufacturers, it should be carried out without
delay. The commercial and industrial enterprises of the country
can only thrive after likin is abolished and only then can new
sources of revenue be obtained. This measure will form the
fundamental factor of our industrial and economical development.
But one thing to which we should like to call the special
attention of the Government is the procedure to be adopted to
negotiate with the Foreign countries respecting the adoption of
this measure. The first step in this connexion should be the
increase of the present Customs tariff to the actual five per
cent, ad valorem rate. When this is done, proposal should be made
to the Powers having treaty relations with us concerning the
abolition of likin and revision of Customs tariff. The transit
destination duties on imported goods should at the same time be
done away with. This would not entail any disadvantage to the
importers of foreign goods and any diplomatic question would not
be difficult of solution. Meantime preparatory measures should be
devised for reorganizing the method of collecting duties set forth
above so that the abolition of likin can take place as soon as the
Government obtains the consent of the foreign Powers respecting
the increase of Customs tariff."

MEMORANDUM

THE LEADING OUTSTANDING CASES BETWEEN CHINA AND THE FOREIGN POWERS

(Author's note. The following memorandum was drawn up by Dr. C. C.
Wu, Councillor at the Chinese Foreign Office and son of Dr. Wu
Ting-fang, the Foreign Minister, and is a most competent and
precise statement. It is a noteworthy fact that not only is Dr. C.
C. Wu a British barrister but he distinguished himself above all
his fellows in the year he was called to the Bar. It is also
noteworthy that the Lao Hsi-kai case does not figure in this
summary, China taking the view that French action throughout was
ultra vires, and beyond discussion.)

BY DR. C. C. WU

Republican China inherited from imperial China the vast and rich
territory of China Proper and its Dependencies, but the
inheritance was by no means free from incumbrances as in the case
of Outer Mongolia, Tibet and Manchuria, and other impediments in
the form of unfavourable treaty obligations and a long list of
outstanding foreign cases affecting sovereign and territorial
rights.

I have been asked by the Editor of the North-China Daily News to
contribute an article on some of the outstanding questions between
China and foreign powers, instancing Tibet, Manchuria, Mongolia,
and to give the Chinese point of view on these questions. Although
the subject is a delicate one to handle, particularly in the
press, being as it is one in which international susceptibilities
are apt to be aroused, I have yet accepted the invitation in the
belief that a calm and temperate statement of the Chinese case
will hurt no one whose case will bear public discussion but will
perhaps do some good by bringing about a clear understanding of
the points at issue between China and the foreign Powers
concerned, and thus facilitating an early settlement which is so
earnestly desired by China. I may say that I have appreciated the
British sense of justice and fairplay displayed by the "North-
China Daily News" in inviting a statement of the Chinese case in
its own columns on questions one of which concerns British
interests in no small degree, and the discussion cannot be
conducted under a better spirit than that expressed in the motto
of the senior British journal in the Far East: "Impartial not
Neutral."

1 DEGREE MANCHURIA

The treaty between China and Japan of 1915 respecting South
Manchuria and Eastern Inner Mongolia giving that power special
rights and privileges in those regions has given rise to many
knotty problems for the diplomatists of the two countries to
solve. Two of such problems are mentioned here.

JAPANESE POLICE BOXES IN MANCHURIA AND MONGOLIA

Since the last days of the Tsings, the Japanese have been
establishing police boxes in different parts of South Manchuria
and Eastern Inner Mongolia always under protest of the local and
Peking authorities. Since the treaty of 1915, a new reason has
become available in the right of mixed residence given to Japanese
in these regions. It is said that for the protection and control
of their subjects, and indeed for the interest of the Chinese
themselves, it is best that this measure should be taken. It is
further contended that the stationing of police officers is but a
corollary to the right of exterritoriality, and that it is in no
way a derogation of Chinese sovereignty.

It is pointed out by the Chinese Government that in the treaty of
1915, express provision is made for Japanese in South Manchuria
and Eastern Inner Mongolia to submit to the police laws and
ordinances and taxation of China (Article 5). This leaves the
matter in no doubt. If the Japanese wish to facilitate the Chinese
police in their duty of protection and control of the Japanese,
they have many means at their command for so doing. It is
unnecessary to point out that the establishment of foreign police
on Chinese soil (except in foreign settlements and concessions
where it is by the permission of the Chinese Government) is, to
our thinking, at any rate, a very grave derogation to China's
sovereign rights. Furthermore, from actual experience, we know
that the activities of these foreign police will not be confined
to their countrymen; in a dispute between a Chinese and a Japanese
both will be taken to the Japanese station by the Japanese
policeman. This existence of an imperium in imperio, so far from
accomplishing its avowed object of "improving the relations of the
countries and bringing about the development of economic interests
to no small degree," will, it is feared, be the cause of continual
friction between the officials and people of the two countries.

As to the legal contention that the right of police control is a
natural corollary to the right of exterritoriality, it must be
said that ever since the grant of consular jurisdiction to
foreigners by China in her first treaties, this is the first time
that such a claim has been seriously put forward. We can only say
that if this interpretation of exterritoriality is correct the
other nations enjoying exteriorality in China have been very
neglectful in the assertion of their just rights.

In the Chengchiatun case, the claim of establishing police boxes
wherever the Japanese think necessary was made one of the demands.
The Chinese Government in its final reply which settled the case
took the stand as above outlined.

It may be mentioned in passing that in Amoy the Japanese have also
endeavoured to establish similar police rights. The people of that
city and province, and indeed of the whole country, as evidenced
by the protests received from all over China, have been very much
exercised over the matter. It is sincerely hoped that with the
undoubted improvement of relations between the two countries
within the last several months, the matter will be smoothly and
equitably settled.

LEGAL STATUS OF KOREANS IN CHIENTAO

The region which goes by the name of Chientao, a Japanese
denomination, comprises several districts in the Yenchi Circuit of
Kirin Province north of the Tumen Kiang (or the Tiumen River)
which here forms the boundary between China and Korea. For over
thirty years Koreans have been allowed here to cultivate the waste
lands and acquire ownership therein, a privilege which has not
been permitted to any other foreigners in China and which has been
granted to these Koreans on account of the peculiar local
conditions. According to reliable sources, the Korean population
now amounts to over 200,000 which is more than the Chinese
population itself. The neighbors, armed, as tracked in the bush
like a wild beast, being finally climbed into a tree, still with
his shotgun, yelling and a horrible way. Viéronse the need to kill
with one stone. * * * * * # March 9 - # Today is thirty-nine
days, hour by hour, the rabid dog entered the night in our
room. If a memory has to endure in my memory, is the two hours
after that time. The house had no doors but in the living room mom,
because you had from the outset to be afraid, I did not do anything
else in the early days of urgent facility, sawing boards for doors
and windows of his room. In ours, and waiting for more
relief work, my wife has been content - true that under a
little pressure on my part - with magnificent doors burlap.

Since we were in summer, this detail is not strictly ornamental
damaged our health or our fear. For one of burlap, which gives the
central corridor, where it was entered and the rabid dog bit
me. I do not know if the shriek of an epileptic gives others
the feeling of bestial clamor and out of all humanity that I am me.

But I am sure that the howl of a rabid dog, who insist the night
around our house, caused all the same funereal anguish. It is
a short cry, metal, death, as if the animal and forest, and soaked
it all in the dark suggests a rabid animal. It was a black
dog, big, with ears cut off. And for more displeasure,
since he had not got more than rain.

The Mount closed at the water, fast and very sad evening,
barely left the house, while the desolation of the countryside,
without a temporary truce, had clouded over to the spirit of
Mother. With this, the rabid dogs. One morning he told us that
the pawn on his house had gone one night, and had bitten his
own. Two nights before, a dog was howling barcino _feo_ in the
bush. There were many, he said. My wife and I gave no more importance
to the matter, but not a mom, started to find our house terribly
helpless half done. Every time I walked out to the corridor to watch
the road. But when our boy again this morning of people
confirmed that. Exploded an explosive epidemic of rabies. An hour
before just chasing a dog in town. A pawn had had time to deal a
machete in his ear, and the animal, drooling, the nose on the
ground and the tail between the legs front had crossed our path,
biting a foal and a pig that found in the journey. More news
yet. At the farm near ours, and that same morning, another dog
had tried in vain to jump the corral of cows. A huge dog had run
to a skinny boy on horseback, by the bite of the old port.
Afternoon was still inside the mountain the howl of the dying
dog. As a final, the nine two agents arrived at a gallop to
give the filiation of rabid dogs seen, and recommend great care.

There was that mom in the world to lose the rest of it was animated.
Although one of serenity to any evidence, terror is a rabid dog,
because of some horrible thing that he witnessed in his
childhood. His nerves, already sick of the constant overcast
skies and rainy, true hallucinations provocáronle dog that came
at a trot by the doorkeeper. He had a real reason for this fear.
Here, as elsewhere where poor people have many more dogs
that can keep the houses are every night starving dogs roam, to the
dangers of the profession - a shot or a bad stone - have
been true come from wild animals. Advance to the step, crouch,
muscles loose. Do not sit up ever. Rob - if the word makes sense
here - to require its atrocious hunger.

The minor rumor - because that would not flee noise, but to
step away, bending the legs. When you reach the grass is lurking,
waiting and so, quietly, or half an hour to move again. Hence the
anxiety of mom, because our house is one of the many marauding,
of course we were threatened by the visit of dogs rabid, remember
the way that night.

Indeed, that same afternoon, while mom, a little forgotten, was
walking slowly toward the doorman, I heard her cry: - Federico!
A rabid dog! Barcino A dog with the back arched, moving at a trot
in a straight line blind. To get me stopped, bristly spine. Back,
without returning the body to pick up the shotgun, but the animal
was. I traveled the road unnecessarily, without returning
to find. It took two days. The field remained desolate rain and
sadness, while the increased number of rabid dogs.

As it was to expose kids to a terrible setback in infested roads,
the school was closed and the road, without traffic, thereby depriving
the school behind her bulla desamparo, at seven and twelve, acquired
grim silence.

Mom did not dare to step outside the patio. Bark fright the child
looked toward the goalkeeper, and just anochecía saw the grass
move in phosphorescent eyes. After dinner is locked in his room,
the attentive ear to howl more hypothetical. Until the third night
I woke up, too late already: she had the impression of having
heard a scream, but could not define the feeling. I waited a
while. And suddenly a short howl, metal, atrocious suffering,
quaked under the corridor. - Federico! - I heard the voice
of emotion passed mom - feel? - Yes - I answered, sliding bed. But
she heard the noise. - Jesus Christ, is a rabid dog! ¡Federico,
do not go out, by God! Jane! Tell your husband not leave! - Cried
desperately, to please my wife. Another howl exploded, this
time in the central corridor in front of the door.

A fine rain bath me chills the spine to the waist. I do not
think there is anything deeper than a mournful howl of a rabid
dog that hour. After he climbed the desperate voice of mom.
- Federico! It will come into your room! Do not leave, my God, do
not go out! John! Tell your husband! ... - Federico! - It took my
wife to my arm.

But the situation could become very critical if you expect the animal
to enter, and lighting the lamp down the shotgun. Levante side
the sacking of the door, and saw no more than the black
triangle in the deep darkness outside. I had barely time
to poke the body, when I felt something warm and strong thigh
brink me, the rabid dog is entered in our room. He missed his head
back violently with one blow of the knee, and suddenly gave
me a bite, which failed to clear a coup teeth. But an instant later
I felt a sharp pain. Neither my wife nor my mother realized
that I had been bitten. - Federico! What was that? - Cried my
mother had heard that the arrest and dentelle air. - Nada: I
wanted to go. - Oh ...

Once again, this time behind the fourth mother, the fateful howl
exploded. - Federico! You're mad! You're mad! Do not leave! -
Maddened cried, feeling the animal to a meter of it. There are
absurdities that have every appearance of a legitimate
reasoning: I left out the lamp in one hand and a shotgun in the
other, to look exactly like a rat terrified that I would play
to put the perfect light in the soil and kill at the end of a
Horcon. traveled corridors.

Not heard a rumor, but inside I was still part of the terrible
anguish that my wife and mother waiting for the stampede.

The dog was gone. - Federico! - Exclaimed the mother finally feel
back .-- Is the dog was - I think so, I can not see it. I thought
I heard a trot when I left. - Yeah, I also felt ...

Federico: not in your room ... You do not have doors, my God!
Stay inside! You can go back! It could return. Were two and twenty
in the morning. And I swear they were the strengths we spent
two hours my wife and I, with the light on until dawn, lying
there, I sat in bed, watching the endlessly floating burlap.
Before I had been cured. The bite was sharp, two holes violet
that oppressed with all my strength, and washed with permanganate.

I thought too narrowly on the anger of animal. Since the previous
day had begun to poison dogs, and something in the attitude of our
overwhelmed me warned for strychnine. The funeral were howling and
the bite, but anyway I am inclined to the former. From here,
certainly on my negligence with injury. He came at last the
day. At eight, and four blocks from home, a bystander killed by a
gun shot the dog running in that unmistakable black state of rage.

Then what we knew, taking from me to wage a war against mom
and my wife not to go down to Buenos Aires to give me injections.
The wound, frankly, was well down, washed and mordant luxury
permanganate.

All this for five minutes of the bite.

What the hell was afraid that after correction safe? Completed
for calm at home, and as the epidemic - probably caused by a
crisis of rain was relentless as ever seen here - had ceased almost
at once, life regained its normal line. But why not mom and
my wife left or fail to take account of the exact time.
Classics forty days weigh heavily, especially mom, and even
today, thirty-nine have passed without the slightest disturbance,
she expects tomorrow to cast his mind, in a huge breath, terror
Always keeping alive that night.

The only annoyance, perhaps, that I had this, point by point
is to remember what happened. I hope that tomorrow night is
completed with the quarantine, the story that keeps your eyes
fixed on me, my wife and my mother, as if to look in my speech the
first sign of disease. * * * * * # March 10 - # Finally! I
hope that from now on I can live like a man either, which
is not suspended over his head crowns death. It is now famous
forty days, and anxiety, mania of persecution and the horrible
screams that awaited me, also went forever. My wife and my mother
had celebrated the happy event in a particular way: counting,
point by point All the terrorists who have suffered do not let me.
The slightest reluctance myself plunged into the mortal anguish:
It's the anger that starts! - Gemi. If one morning I got up
late, did not live for hours, waiting for another symptom.

The fastidiosa infection in a finger that I had three days
feverish and impatient, was for them an absolute proof of rabies
that began, where his dismay, most distressing for poaching.
And so the least change of mood, the slightest abatement,
provocáronles, for forty days, many hours of anxiety. But these
confessions retrospectives, always unpleasant for the person who
has lived cheated, even with the most ckrrltn goodwill, yet I
laughed good .-- Ah, my son! You can not figurarte it is horrible
that a mother's thought that his son might be rabid! Anything else
... but mad, mad! ... My wife, though more sensible, it has also
wander rather more than confess. But because it was over, thankfully!
This situation martyr, baby second to second guarded against such
disparate death threat, it is not seductive, nonetheless.
At last, again! Live in peace, and hopefully tomorrow or
past dawn with no headache for the resurrection of madness. *
* * * * # March 15 - # I had wanted to be absolutely quiet, but
it is impossible . No longer, I believe, a possibility that this
conclusion. Sidelong glances all day, incessant whisper that blow
constantly hear my footsteps as a spy crispante my expression
when we are on the table, this is becoming intolerable .-- But
what are, please!

-- -I just said .-- I found something unusual, I am not exactly as
usual?

It's a bit tiring story rabid dog! - But Federico! - I replied,
looking at me with surprise .-- If you do not say anything,
not that we agreed! And do not However, otherwise, to spy
another day and night, day and night, to see if your stupid
dog rabies has crept into me * * * * * # March 18 - # I live
three days ago as it should and would do all his life.

I have left in peace, finally, finally, finally!

* * * * * # March 19 - # Again! Another time has begun! I no
longer take their eyes off me, as if what appear to want to happen:
you're mad.

How can so much stupidity in two sensible people! Now no more
disguise, and speak out loud rush me, but I do not know why,
I can not understand a word. As I arrive suddenly stop, and just a
step away, I re-the dizzying chatter. I could not contain,
and I have become angry - But speak, speak in front, which is less
coward!

I did not want to hear what they have I said and ido. Now is not the
life that I have!

* * * * * # # 8 pm They want to go! They want us out!

Ah, I know why they want to leave! ... * * * * * # March 20 -
(6 am) # ¡howling, howling!

The whole night I have not heard that howling! I spent the whole
night every waking moment!

Bitch, nothing but dogs have been around the house last night!

And my wife and my mother had feigned the most perfect dream, so
I just absorbed by the eyes of all the howling dogs that I watched!
... * * * * * # # 7 am No more than snakes ! My house is full of
snakes! When you wash three screwed in the bowl! In the lining
of the bag were a lot! And there's more! There are other things!

My wife has me filling the house of snakes! He has brought enormous
hairy spiders that persecute me!

Now I understand why spy day and night! Now I understand
everything! I wanted to go for that! * * * * * # # 7:15 a.m.
The courtyard is full of snakes! I can not take a step! No, no!
... Help! ... * * * * * My wife is running! My mother is! I have
killed! ... Ah, the shotgun! ... Damn! It's loaded with ammunition!
But no matter ... * * * * * What a cry has given!

Erre Le ... Another time, the snakes! There is, there is a huge!
... Ouch! ¡Socorro, relief! * * * * * We all want to kill me!

¡They have been sent against me, all!

The mountain is full of spiders! I have since followed home!
... Here comes another murderer ... ¡Las brings in his hand!

Protracted negotiations took place
thereafter, but, in spite of repeated concessions from the Chinese
side in regard to the Chinese side in regard to the boundary
question, the British Government would not negotiate on any basis
other than the initialled convention. On July 3 an Agreement based
on the terms of the draft Convention but providing special
safeguards for the interests of Great Britain and Tibet in the
event of China continuing to withhold her adherence, was signed
between Great Britain and Tibet, not, however, before Mr. Ivan
Chen had declared that the Chinese Government would recognize any
treaty or similar document that might then or thereafter be signed
between Great Britain and Tibet.

CHINA'S STANDPOINT

With the same spirit of compromise and a readiness to meet the
wishes of the British Government and even to the extent of making
considerable sacrifices in so far as they were compatible with her
dignity, China has more than once offered to renew negotiations
with the British Government but the latter has up to the present
declined to do so. China wants nothing more than the re-
establishment of Chinese suzerainty over Tibet, with recognition
of the autonomy of the territory immediately under the control of
the Lhassa Government; she is agreeable to the British idea of
forming an effective buffer territory in so far as it is
consistent with equity and justice; she is anxious that her trade
interest should be looked after by her trade agents as do the
British, a point which is agreeable even to the Tibetans though
apparently not to the British; in other words, she expects that
Great Britain would at least make with her an arrangement
regarding Tibet which should not be any less disadvantageous to
her than that made with Russia respecting Outer Mongolia.

Considering that China has claimed and exercised sovereign rights
over Tibet, commanded the Tibetan army, supervised Tibetan
internal administration, and confirmed the appointments of Tibetan
officials, high and low, secular and even ecclesiastical, such
expectations are modest enough, surely. At the present moment,
with communication via India closed, with no official
representative or agent present, with relations unsettled and
unregulated, the position of China vis-a-vis Tibet is far from
satisfactory and altogether anomalous, while as between China and
Great Britain there is always this important question outstanding.
An early settlement in a reciprocal spirit of give and take and
giving reasonable satisfaction to the legitimate aspirations and
claims of all parties is extremely desirable.

4 DEGREES OUTER MONGOLIA

The world is more or less acquainted with the events in Urga in
December, 1911, and the proclamation of independence of Outer
Mongolia with Jetsun Dampa Hutukhtu as its ruler. By the Russo-
Chinese Declaration of November 5, 1913, and the Tripartite
Convention of Kiakhta of 1914 China has re-established her
suzerainty over Outer Mongolia and obtained the acknowledgement
that it forms a part of the Chinese territory. There remains the
demarcation of boundary between Inner and Outer Mongolia which
will take place shortly, and the outstanding question of the
status of Tannu Uriankhai where Russia is lately reported to be
subjecting the inhabitants to Russian jurisdiction and expelling
Chinese traders.

The Tannu Uriankhai lands, according to the Imperial Institutes of
the Tsing Dynasty, were under the control of the Tartar General of
Uliasutai, the Sain Noin Aimak, the Jasaktu Khan Aimak and the
Jetsun Dampa Hutkhta, and divided into forty-eight somons
(tsoling). DIEGO. Woe to honor women in post! So what I want to be
dying or who estorbare. (_Vase_.) JULIA. Want to move a mountain
by the force that attempts to reduce a woman. (_Ap_.) That
Alarcon, try my love Anarda apartarte; that in some circumstances
is the ingenuity and art that does not love and responsibility.
Callado feel the pain , I said I would have, thought it
prudent to remove hindrance, to discover the first attempt.

[SCENE XIII] ANARDA Sale.
The matter was taken up by the then
Waiwupu with the Russian Minister. He replied to the effect that
the limits of Uriankhai were an unsettled question and the Russian
Government would not entertain the Chinese idea of taking
independent steps to remark the boundary or to replace the post
and expressed dissatisfaction with the work of the Joint
Demarcation Commission of 1868, a dissatisfaction which would seem
to be somewhat tardily expressed, to say the least. The case was
temporarily dropped on account of the secession of Uliasutai from
China in the following year.

While Uriankhai forms part of Autonomous Outer Mongolia, yet since
Outer Mongolia is under China's suzerainty, and its territory is
expressly recognized to form part of that of China, China cannot
look on with indifference to any possible cession of territory by
Outer Mongolia to Russia. Article 3 of the Kiakhta Agreement,
1915, prohibiting Outer Mongolia from concluding treaties with
foreign powers respecting political and territorial question
acknowledges China's right to negotiate and make such treaties. But
before going to explode here, leaving the plate! And much care,
you and all who are listening! Ya know! The decision to flee,
and its dangers, for which the monthly needs all its strength,
is able to contain more than a pernicious fever.
While Russia is
spending countless lives and incalculable treasure in fighting for
the sacred principle of nationality in Europe, we cannot believe