This Simian World

by: Clarence Day Jr.


"How I hate the man who talks about the 'brute creation,' with
an ugly emphasis on /brute/. . . . As for me, I am proud of my
close kinship with other animals.  I take a jealous pride in my
Simian ancestry.  I like to think that I was once a magnificent
hairy fellow living in the trees, and that my frame has come down
through geological time via sea jelly and worms and Amphioxus,
Fish, Dinosaurs, and Apes.  Who would exchange these for the
pallid couple in the Garden of Eden?"

W. N. P. Barbellion.


I


Last Sunday, Potter took me out driving along upper Broadway, where
those long rows of tall new apartment houses were built a few years
ago.  It was a mild afternoon and great crowds of people were out.
Sunday afternoon crowds.  They were not going anywhere,--they were
just strolling up and down, staring at each other, and talking.
There were thousands and thousands of them.

"Awful, aren't they!" said Potter.

I didn't know what he meant.  When he added, "Why, these crowds,"
I turned and asked, "Why, what about them?"  I wasn't sure whether
he had an idea or a headache.

"Other creatures don't do it," he replied, with a discouraged
expression.  "Are any other beings ever found in such masses, but
vermin?  Aimless, staring, vacant-minded,--look at them!  I can
get no sense whatever of individual worth, or of value in men as
a race, when I see them like this.  It makes one almost despair
of civilization."

I thought this over for awhile, to get in touch with his attitude.
I myself feel differently at different time about us human-beings:
sometimes I get pretty indignant when we are attacked (for there
is altogether too much abuse of us by spectator philosophers) and
yet at other times I too fell like a spectator, an alien: but even
then I had never felt so alien or despairing as Potter.  "Let's
remember," I said, "it's a simian civilization."

Potter was staring disgustedly at some vaudeville sign-boards.

"Yes", I said, "those for example are distinctively simian.  Why
should you feel disappointment at something inevitable?"  And I
went on to argue that it wasn't as though we were descended from
eagles for instance, instead of (broadly speaking) from ape-like
or monkeyish beings.  Being of simian stock, we had simian traits.
Our development naturally bore the marks of our origin.  If we
had inherited our dispositions from eagles we should have loathed
vaudeville.  But as cousins of Bandarlog, we loved it.  What could
you expect?


II


If we had been made directly from clay, the way it says in the Bible,
and had therefore inherited no intermediate characteristics,--if a
god, or some principle of growth, had gone that way to work with us,
he or it might have molded us in much more splendid forms.

But considering our simian descent, it has done very well.  The only
people who are disappointed in us are those who still believe that
clay story.  Or who--unconsciously--still let it color their thinking.


There certainly seems to be a power at work in the world, by virtue
of which every living thing grows and develops.  And it tends toward
splendor.  Seeds become trees, and weak little nations grow great.
But the push or the force that is doing this, the yeast as it were,
has to work in and on certain definite kinds of material.  Because
this yeast is in us there may be great and undreamed of possibilities
awaiting mankind; but because of our line of descent there are also
queer limitations.


III


In those distant invisible epochs before men existed, before even
the proud missing link strutted around through the woods (little
realizing how we his greatgrandsons would smile wryly at him much
as our own descendants may shudder at us, ages hence) the various
animals were desperately competing for power.  They couldn't or
didn't live as equals.  Certain groups sought the headship.

Many strange forgotten dynasties rose, met defiance, and fell.
In the end it was our ancestors who won, and became simian kings,
and bequeathed a whole planet to us--and have never been thanked
for it.  No monument has been raised to the memory of those first
hairy conquerors; yet had they not fought well and wisely in those
far-off times, some other race would have been masters, and kept
us in cages, or show us for sport in the forest while they ruled
the world.


So Potter and I, developing this train of thought, began to imagine
we had lived many ages ago, and somehow or other had alighted
here from some older planet.  Familiar with the ways of evolution
elsewhere in the universe, we naturally should have wondered what
course it would take on this earth.  "Even in this out-of-the-way
corner of the Cosmos," we might have reflected, "and on this tiny
star, it may be of interest to consider the trend of events."  We
should have tried to appraise the different species as they wandered
around, each with its own set of good and bad characteristics.  Which
group, we'd have wondered, would ever contrive to rule all the rest?

And how great a development could they attain to thereafter?


IV


If we had landed here after the great saurians had been swept from
the scene, we might first have considered the lemurs or apes.
They had hands.  Aesthetically viewed, the poor simians were simply
grotesque; but travelers who knew other planets might have known what
beauty may spring from an uncouth beginning in this magic universe.

Still--those frowsy, unlovely hordes of apes and monkeys were so
completely lacking in signs of kingship; they were so flighty, too,
in their ways, and had so little purpose, and so much love for
absurd and idle chatter, that they would have struck us, we thought,
as unlikely material.  Such traits, we should have reminded ourselves,
persist.  They are not easily left behind, even after long stages; and
they form a terrible obstacle to all high advancement.


V


The bees or the ants might have seemed to us more promising.  Their
smallness of size was not necessarily too much of a handicap.  They
could have made poison their weapon for the subjugation of rivals.
And in these orderly insects there are obviously a capacity for
labor, and co-operative labor at that, which could carry them far.
We all know that they have a marked genius: great gifts of their
own.  In a civilization of super-ants or bees, there would have
been no problem of the hungry unemployed, no poverty, no unstable
government, no riots, no strikes for short hours, no derision of
eugenics, no thieves, perhaps no crime at all.

Ants are good citizens: they place group interests first.

But they carry it so far, they have few or no political rights.
An ant doesn't have the vote, apparently: he just has his duties.

This quality may have something to do with their having groups wars.
The egotism of their individual spirits is allowed scant expression,
so the egotism of the groups is extremely ferocious and active.  Is
this one of the reasons why ants fight so much?  We have seen the same
phenomenon occur in certain nations of men.  And the ants commit
atrocities in and after their battles that are--I wish I could truly
say--inhuman.

But conversely, ants are absolutely unselfish within the community.
They are skilful.  Ingenious.  Their nests and buildings are
relatively larger than man's.  The scientists speak of their paved
streets, vaulted halls, their hundreds of different domesticated
animals, their pluck and intelligence, their individual initiative,
their chaste and industrious lives.  Darwin said the ant's brain
was "one of the most marvelous atoms in the world, perhaps more so
than the brain of man"--yes, of present-day man, who for thousands
and thousands of years has had so much more chance to develop his
brain. . . .A thoughtful observer would have weighed all these
excellent qualities.

When we think of these creatures as little men (which is all wrong
of course) we see they have their faults.  To our eyes they seem
too orderly, for instance.  Repressively so.  Their ways are more
fixed than those of the old Egyptians, and their industry is painful
to think of, it's hyper-Chinese.  But we must remember this is a
simian comment.  The instincts of the species that you and I belong
to are of an opposite kind; and that makes it hard for us to judge
ants fairly.

But we and the ants are alike in one matter: the strong love of
property.  And instead of merely struggling with Nature for it,
they also fight other ants.  The custom of plunder seems to be a
part of most of their wars.  This has gone on for ages among them,
and continues today.  Raids, ferocious combats, and loot are part
of an ant's regular life.  Ant reformers, if there were any, might
lay this to their property sense, and talk of abolishing property
as a cure for the evil.  But that would not help for long unless
they could abolish the love of it.

Ants seem to care even more for property than we do ourselves.  We
men are inclined to ease up a little when we have all we need.  But
it no so with ants: they can't bear to stop: they keep right on
working.  This means that ants do not contemplate: they heed nothing
outside of their own little rounds.  It is almost as though their
fondness for labor had closed fast their minds.

Conceivably they might have developed inquiring minds.  But this
would have run against their strongest instincts.  The ant is
knowing and wise; but he doesn't know enough to take a vacation.
The worshipper of energy is too physically energetic to see that
he cannot explore certain higher fields until he is still.

Even if such a race had somehow achieved self-consciousness and
reason, would they have been able therewith to rule their instincts,
or to stop work long enough to examine themselves, or the universe,
or to dream of any noble development?  Probably not.  Reason is
seldom or never the ruler: it is the servant of instinct.  It would
therefore have told the ants that incessant toil was useful and good.

"Toil has brought you up from the ruck of things."  Reason would
have plausibly said, "it's by virtue of feverish toil that you
have become what you are.  Being endlessly industrious is the best
road--for you--to the heights."  And, self-reassured, they would
then have had orgies of work; and thus, by devoted exertion, have
blocked their advancement.  Work, and order and gain would have
withered their souls.


VI


Let us take the great cats.  They are free from this talent for
slave-hood.  Stately beasts like the lion have more independence
of mind than the ants,--and a self-respect, we may note, unknown
to primates.  Or consider the leopards, with hearts that no tyrant
could master.  What fearless and resolute leopard-men they could
have fathered!  How magnificently such a civilization would have
made its force tell!

A race of civilized beings descended from these great cats would
have been rich in hermits and solitary thinkers.  The recluse would
not have been stigmatized as peculiar, as he is by us simians.  They
would not have been a credulous people, or easily religious.  False
prophets and swindlers would have found few dupes.  And what generals
they would have made! what consummate politicians!

Don't imagine them as a collection of tigers walking around on their
hind-legs.  They would have only been like tigers in the sense that
we men are like monkeys.  Their development in appearance and
character would have been quite transforming.

Instead of the small flat head of the tiger, they would have had
clear smooth brows; and those who were not bald would have had
neatly parted hair--perhaps striped.

Their mouths would have been smaller and more sensitive: their
faces most dignified.  Where now they express chiefly savageness,
they would have expressed fir and grace.

They would have been courteous and suave.  No vulgar crowding
would have occurred on the streets of their cities.  No mobs.
No ignominious subway-jams.

Imagine a cultivated coterie of such men and women, at a ball,
dancing.  How few of us humans are graceful.  They would have
all been Pavlowas.


Like ants and bees, the cat race is nervous.  Their temperaments are
high-strung.  They would never have become as poised or as placid
as--say--super-cows.  Yet they would have had less insanity, probably,
than we.  Monkeys' (and elephants') minds seem precariously balanced,
unstable.  The great cats are saner.  They are intense, they would
have needed sanitariums: but fewer asylums.  And their asylums would
have been not for weak-minded souls, but for furies.

They would have been strong at slander.  They would have been far
more violent than we, in their hates, and they would have had fewer
friendships.  Yet they might not have been any poorer in real
friendships than we.  The real friendships among men are so rare
than when they occur they are famous.  Friends as loyal as Damon
and Pythias were, are exceptions.  Good fellowship is common, but
unchanging affection is not.  We like those who like us, as a rule,
and dislike those who don't.  Most of our ties have no better footing
than that; and those who have many such ties are called warm-hearted.


The super-cat-men would have rated cleanliness higher.  Some of
us primates have learned to keep ourselves clean, but it's no
large proportion; and even the cleanest of us see no grandeur in
soap-manufacturing, and we don't look to manicures and plumbers for
social prestige.  A feline race would have honored such occupations.
J. de Courcy Tiger would have felt that nothing /but/ making soap, or
being a plumber, was compatible with a high social position; and the
rich Vera Pantherbilt would have deigned to dine only with manicures.

None but the lowest dregs of such a race would have been lawyers
spending their span of life on this mysterious earth studying the
long dusty records of dead and gone quarrels.  We simians naturally
admire a profession full of wrangle and chatter.  But that is a
monkeyish way of deciding disputes, not feline.

We fight best in armies, gregariously, where the risk is reduced;
but we disapprove usually of murderers, and of almost all private
combat.  With the great cats, it would have been just the other way
round.  (Lions and leopards fight each other singly, not in bands,
as do monkeys.)

As a matter of fact, few of us delight in really serious fighting.
We do love to bicker; and we box and knock each other around, to
exhibit our strength; but few normal simians are keen about bloodshed
and killing; we do it in war only because of patriotism, revenge,
duty, glory.  A feline civilization would have cared nothing for duty
or glory, but they would have taken a far higher pleasure in gore.
If a planet of super-cat-men could look down upon ours, they would
not know which to think was the most amazing: the way we tamely live,
five million or so in a city, with only a few police to keep us
quiet, while we commit only one or two murders a day, and hardly
have a respectable number of brawls; or the way great armies of us
are trained to fight,--not liking it much, and yet doing more killing
in wartime and shedding more blood than even the fiercest lion on his
cruelest days.  Which would perplex a gentlemanly super-cat spectator
the more, our habits of wholesale slaughter in the field, or our
spiritless making a fetish of "order," at home?


It is fair to judge peoples by the rights they will sacrifice most
for.  Super-cat-men would have been outraged, had their right of
personal combat been questioned.  The simian submits with odd
readiness to the loss of this privilege.  What outrages him is
to make him stop wagging his tongue.  He becomes most excited and
passionate about the right of free speech, even going so far in his
emotion as to declare it is sacred.

He looks upon other creatures pityingly because they are dumb.
If one of his own children is born dumb, he counts it a tragedy.
Even that mere hesitation in speech, know as stammering, he deems
a misfortune.

So precious to a simian is the privilege of making sounds with his
tongue, that when he wishes to punish severely those men he calls
criminals, he forbids them to chatter, and forces them by threats
to be silent.  It is felt that his punishment is entirely too cruel
however and even the worst offenders should be allowed to talk part
of each day.

Whatever a simian does, there must always be some talking about it.
He can't even make peace without a kind of chatter called a peace
conference.  Super-cats would not have had to "make" peace: they
would have just walked off and stopped fighting.


In a world of super-cat-men, I suppose there would have been fewer
sailors; and people would have cared less for seaside resorts, or
for swimming.  Cats hate getting wet, so men descended from them
might have hated it.  They would have felt that even going in
wading was sign of great hardihood, and only the most daring young
fellows, showing off, would have done it.

Among them there would have been no antivivisection societies:

No Young Cat Christian Associations or Red Cross work:

No Vegetarians:

No early closing laws:

Much more hunting and trapping:

No riding to hounds; that's pure simian.  Just think how it would
have entranced the old-time monkeys to foresee such a game!  A game
where they'd all prance off on captured horses, tearing pell-mell
through the woods in gay red coats, attended by yelping packs of
servant-dogs.  It is excellent sport--but how cats would scorn to
hunt in that way!

They would not have knighted explorers--they would have all been
explorers.


Imagine that you are strolling through a super-cat city at night.
Over yonder is the business quarter, its evening shops blazing
with jewels.  The great stock-yards lie to the east where you hear
those sad sounds: that twittering as of innumerable birds, waiting
slaughter.  Beyond lie the silent aquariums and the crates of fresh
mice.  (They raise mice instead of hens in the country, in Super-cat
Land.)  To the west is a beautiful but weirdly bacchanalian park,
with long groves of catnip, where young super-cats have their fling,
and where a few crazed catnip addicts live on till they die, unable
to break off their strangely undignified orgies.  And here where you
stand is the sumptuous residence district.  Houses with spacious
grounds everywhere: no densely-packed buildings.  The streets have
been swept up--or lapped up--until they are spotless.  Not a scrap
of paper is lying around anywhere: no rubbish, no dust.  Few of the
pavements are left bare, as ours are, and those few are polished:
the rest have deep soft velvet carpets.  No footfalls are heard.

There are no lights in these streets, though these people are
abroad much at night.  All you see are stars overhead and the
glowing eyes of cat ladies, of lithe silken ladies who pass you,
or of stiff-whiskered men.  Beware of those men and the gleam
of the split-pupiled stare.  They are haughty, punctilious,
inflammable: self-absorbed too, however.  They will probably not
even notice you; but if they do, you are lost.  They take offense
in a flash, abhor strangers, despise hospitality, and would think
nothing of killing you or me on their way home to dinner.

Follow one of them.  Enter this house.  Ah what splendor!  No
servants, though a few abject .monkeys wait at the back-doors, and
submissively run little errands.  But of course they are never let
inside: they would seem out of place.  Gorgeous couches, rich colors,
silken walls, an oriental magnificence.  In here is the ballroom.
But wait: what is this in the corner?  A large triumphal statue--of
a cat overcoming a dog.  And look at this dining-room, its exquisite
appointments, its--daintiness: faucets for hot and cold milk in the
pantry, and a gold bowl of cream.

Some one is entering.  Hush!  If I could but describe her!
Languorous, slender and passionate.  Sleepy eyes that see everything.
An indolent purposeful step. An unimaginable grace.  If you were /her/
lover, my boy, you would learn how fierce love can be, how capricious
and sudden, how hostile, how ecstatic, how violent!

Think what the state of the arts would have been in such cities.

They would have had few comedies on their stage; no farces.  Cats
care little for fun.  In the circus, superlative acrobats.  No clowns.

In drama and singing they would have surpassed us probably.  Even
in the state of arrested development as mere animals, in which we
see cats, they wail with a passionate intensity at night in our
yards.  Imagine how a Caruso descended from such beings would sing.

In literature they would not have begged for happy endings.

They would have been personally more self-assured than we, far
freer of cheap imitativeness of each other in manners and art, and
hence more original in art; more clearly aware of what they really
desired; not cringingly watchful of what was expected of them; less
widely observant perhaps, more deeply thoughtful.

Their artists would have produced less however, even though they
felt more.  A super-cat artist would have valued the pictures he
drew for their effects on himself; he wouldn't have cared a rap
whether anyone else saw them or not.  He would not have bothered,
usually, to give any form to his conceptions.  Simply to have had
the sensation would have for him been enough.  But since simians
love to be noticed, it does not content them to have a conception;
they must wrestle with it until it takes a form in which others
can see it.  They doom the artistic impulse to toil with its nose
to the grindstone, until their idea is expressed in a book or a
statue.  Are they right?  I have doubts.  The artistic impulse
seems not to wish to produce finished work.  It certainly deserts
us half-way, after the idea is born; and if we go on, art is labor.
With the cats, art is joy.


But the dominant characteristic of this fine race is cunning.  And
hence I think it would have been through their craftiness, chiefly,
that they would have felt the impulse to study, and the wish to
advance.  Craft is a cat's delight: craft they never can have too
much of.  So it would have been from one triumph of cunning to
another that they would have marched.  That would have been the
greatest driving force of their civilization.

This would have meant great progress in invention and science--or
in some fields of science, the economic for instance.  But it would
have retarded them in others.  Craft studies the world calculatingly,
from without, instead of understandingly from within.  Especially
would it have cheapened the feline philosophies; for not simply how
to know but how to circumvent the universe would have been their
desire.  Mankind's curiosity is disinterested; it seems purer by
contrast.  That is to say, made as we are, it seems purer to us.
What we call disinterested, however, super-cats might call aimless.
(Aimlessness is one of the regular simian traits.)

I don't mean to be prejudiced in favor of the simian side.
Curiosity may be as debasing, I grant you, as craft.  And craft
might turn into artifices of a kind which would be noble and fine.
Just as the ignorant and fitful curiosity of some little monkey
is hardly to be compared to the astronomer's magnificent search,
so the craft and cunning we see in our pussies would bear small
relation to the high-minded planning of some ruler of the race
we are imagining.

And yet--craft /is/ self-defeating in the end. Transmute it into
its finest possible form, let it be as  subtle  and civilized as
you please, as yearning and noble, as enlightened, it still sets
itself over against the wholeness of things; its role is that of
the part at war with the whole.  Milton's Lucifer had the mind of
a fine super-cat.

That craft may defeat itself in the end, however, is not the real
point.  That doesn't explain why the lions aren't ruling the planet.
The trouble is, it would defeat itself in the beginning.  It would
have too bitterly stressed the struggle for existence.  Conflict and
struggle make civilizations virile, but they do not by themselves
make civilizations.  Mutual aid and support are needed for that.
There the felines are lacking.  They do not co-operate  well;
they have small group-devotion.  Their lordliness, their strong
self-regard, and their coolness of heart, have somehow thwarted
the chance of their racial progress.


VII


There are many other beasts that one might once have thought
had a chance.

Some, like horses and deer, were not bold enough; or were
stupid, like buffaloes.

Some had over-trustful characters, like the seals; or exploitable
characters, like cows, and chickens, and sheep.  Such creatures
sentence themselves to be captives, by their lack of ambition.

Dogs?  They have more spirit.  But they have lost their chance
of kingship through worshipping us.  The dog's finer qualities
can't be praised too warmly; there is a purity about his devotion
which makes mere men feel speechless: but with all love for
dogs, one must grant they are vassals, not rulers.  They are too
parasitic--the one willing servant class of the world.  And we have
betrayed them by making under-simians of them.  We have taught them
some of our own ways of behaving, and frowned upon theirs.  Loving
us, they let us stop their developing in tune with their natures;
and they've patiently tried ever since to adopt ways of ours.  They
have done it, too; but of course they can't get far: it's not their
own road.  Dogs have more love than integrity.  They've been true
to us, yes, but they haven't been true to themselves.

Pigs?  The pig is remarkably intelligent and brave,--but he's
gross; and grossness delays one's achievement, it takes so much
time.  The snake too, though wise, has a way of eating himself into
stupors.  If super-snake-men had had banquets they would have been
too vast to describe.  Each little snake family could have eaten a
herd of cattle at Christmas.

Goats, then?  Bears or turtles?  Wolves, whales, crows?  Each ha
 brains and pride, and would have been glad to rule the world if
they could; but each had their defects, and their weaknesses for
such a position.

The elephant?  Ah!  Evolution has had its tragedies, hasn't it, as
well as its triumphs; and well should the elephant know it.  He had
the best chance of all.  Wiser even than the lion, or the wisest of
apes, his wisdom furthermore was benign where theirs was sinister.
Consider his dignity, his poise and skill.  He was plastic, too.  He
had learned to eat many foods and endure many climates.  Once, some
say, this race explored the globe.  Their bones are found everywhere,
in South America even; so the elephants' Columbus may have found some
road here before ours.  They are cosmopolitans, these suave and
well-bred beings.  They have rich emotional natures, long memories,
loyalty; they are steady and sure; and not narrow, not self-absorbed,
for they seem interested in everything.  What was it then, that put
them out of the race?

Could it have been a quite natural belief that they had already won?

And when they saw that they hadn't, and that the monkey-men were
getting ahead, were they too great-minded and decent to exterminate
their puny rivals?

It may have been their tolerance and patience that betrayed them.
They wait too long before they resent an imposition or insult.
Just as ants are too energetic and cats too shrewd for their own
highest good, so the elephants suffer from too much patience.  Their
exhibitions of it may seem superb,--such power and such restraint,
combined, are noble,--but a quality carried to excess defeats
itself.  Kings who won't lift their scepters must yield in the end;
and, the worst of it is, to upstarts who snatch at their crowns.


I fancy the elephants would have been gentler masters than we: more
live-and-let-live in allowing other species to stay here.  Our way
is to kill good and bad, male and female and babies, till the few
last survivors lie hidden away from our guns.  All species must
surrender unconditionally--those are our terms--and come and live
in barns alongside us; or on us, as parasites.  The creatures that
want to live a life of their own, we call wild.  If wild, then no
matter how harmless we treat them as outlaws, and those of us who
are specially well brought up shoot them for fun.  Some might be our
friends.  We don't wish it.  We keep them all terrorized.  When one
of us conquering monkey-men enters the woods, most animals that scent
him slink away, or race off in a panic.  It is not that we have
planned this deliberately: but they know what we're like.  Race by
race they have been slaughtered.  Soon all will be gone.  We give
neither freedom nor life-room to those we defeat.

If we had been as strong as the elephants, we might have been kinder.
When great power comes naturally to people, it is used more urbanely.
We use it as parvenus do, because that's what we are.  The elephant,
being born to it, is easy-going, confident, tolerant.  He would have
been a more humane king.


A race descended from elephants would have had to build on a large
scale.  Imagine a crowd of huge, wrinkled, slow-moving elephant-men
getting into a vast elephant omnibus.

And would they have ever tried airships?

The elephant is stupid when it comes to learning how to use tools.
So are all other species except our own.  Isn't it strange?  A
tool, in the most primitive sense, is any object, lying around,
that can obviously be used as an instrument for this or that
purpose.  Many creatures use objects as /materials/, as birds use
twigs for nests.  But the step that no animal takes is learning
freely to use things as instruments.  When an elephant plucks off
a branch and swishes his flanks, and thus keeps away insects, he
is using a tool.  But he does it only by a vague and haphazard
association of ideas.  If he once became a conscious user of tools
he would of course go much further.

We ourselves, who are so good at it now, were slow enough in
beginning.  Think of the long epochs that passed before it entered
our heads.

And all that while the contest for leadership blindly went on,
without any species making use of this obvious aid.  The lesson
to be learned was simple: the reward was the rule of a planet.
Yet only one species, our own, has ever had that much brains.

It makes you wonder what other obvious lessons may still
be unlearned.


It is not necessarily stupid however, to fail to use tools.  To
use tools involves using reason, instead of sticking to instinct.
Now, sticking to instinct has its disadvantages, but so has using
reason.  Whichever faculty you use, the other atrophies, and partly
deserts you.  We are trying to use both. But we still don't know
which has the more value.

A sudden vision comes to me of one of the first far-away ape-men who
tried to use reason instead of instinct as a guide for his conduct.
I imagine him, perched in his tree, torn between those two voices,
wailing loudly at night by a river, in his puzzled distress.

My poor far-off brother!


VIII


We have been considering which species was on the whole most finely
equipped to be rulers, and thereafter achieve a high civilization;
but that wasn't the problem.  The real problem was which would /do/
it:--a different matter.

To do it there was need of a species that had at least these two
qualities: some quenchless desire, to urge them on and on; and also
adaptability of a thousand kinds to their environment.

The rhinoceros cares little for adaptability. He slogs through the
world.  But we! we are experts.  Adaptability is what we depend on.
We talk of our mastery of nature, which sounds very grand; but the
fact is we respectfully adapt ourselves first, to her ways.  "We
attain no power over nature till we learn natural laws, and our
lordship depends on the adroitness with which we learn and conform."

Adroitness however is merely an ability to win; back of it there must
be some spur to make us use our adroitness.  Why don't we all die or
give up when we're sick of the world?  Because the love of life is
reenforced, in most energized beings, by some longing that pushes
them forward, in defeat and in darkness.  All creatures wish to live,
and to perpetuate their species, of course; but those two wishes
alone evidently do not carry any race far.  In addition to these, a
race, to be great, needs some hunger, some itch, to spur it up the
hard path we lately have learned to call evolution.  The love of toil
in the ants, and of craft in cats, are examples (imaginary or not).
What other such lust could exert great driving force?

With us is it curiosity? endless interest in one's environment?

Many animals have some curiosity, but "some" is not enough; and
in but few is it one of the master passions.  By a master passion,
I mean a passion that is really your master: some appetite which
habitually, day in, day out, makes its subjects forget fatigue or
danger, and sacrifice their ease to its gratification.  That is the
kind of hold that curiosity has on the monkeys.


IX


Imagine  a prehistoric prophet observing these beings, and
forecasting what kind of civilizations their descendants would
build.  Anyone could have foreseen certain parts of the simians'
history: could have guessed that their curiosity would unlock for
them, one by one, nature's doors, and--idly--bestow on them stray
bits of valuable knowledge: could have pictured them spreading
inquiringly all over the globe, stumbling on their inventions--and
idly passing on and forgetting them.

To have to learn the same thing over and over again wastes the time
of a race.  But this is continually necessary, with simians, because
of their disorder.  "Disorder," a prophet would have sighed: "that is
one of their handicaps; one that they will never get rid of, whatever
it costs.  Having so much curiosity makes a race scatter-brained.

"Yes," he would have dismally continued, "it will be a queer mixture:
these simians will attain to vast stores of knowledge, in time, that
is plain.  But after spending centuries groping to discover some art,
in after-centuries they will now and then find it's forgotten.   How
incredible it would seem on other planets to hear of lost arts.

"There is a strong streak of triviality in them, which you don't see
in cats.  They won't have fine enough characters to concentrate on
the things of most weight.  They will talk and think far more of
trifles than of what is important.  Even when they are reasonably
civilized, this will be so.  Great discoveries sometimes will fail
to be heard of, because too much else is; and many will thus
disappear, and these men will not know it."[1]

[1] We did rescue Mendel's from the dust heap; but perhaps it
was an exception.


Let me interrupt this lament to say a word for myself and my
ancestors.  It is easy to blame us as undiscriminating, but we
are at least full of zest.  And it's well to be interested, eagerly
and intensely, in so many things, because there is often no knowing
which may turn out important.  We don't go around being interested
on purpose, hoping to profit by it, but a profit may come.  And
anyway it is generous of us not to be too self-absorbed.  Other
creatures go to the other extreme to an amazing extent.  They are
ridiculously oblivious to what is going on.  The smallest ant in
the garden will ignore the largest woman who visits it.  She is a
huge and most dangerous super-mammoth in relation to him, and her
tread shakes the earth; but he has no time to be bothered,
investigating such-like phenomena.  He won't even get out of her
way.  He has his work to do, hang it.

Birds and squirrels have less of this glorious independence of
spirit.  They watch you closely--if you move around.  But not if
you keep still.  In other words, they pay no more attention than
they can help, even to mammoths.

We of course observe everything, or try to.  We could spend our lives
looking on.  Consider our museums for instance: they are a sign of
our breed.  It makes us smile to see birds, like the magpie, with a
mania for this collecting--but only monkeyish beings could reverence
museums as we do, and pile such heterogeneous trifles and quantities
in them.


Old furniture, egg-shells, watches, bits of stone. . . . And next
door,  a "menagerie."  Though our victory over all other animals is
now aeons old, we still bring home captives and exhibit them caged
in our cities.  And when a species dies out--or is crowded (by us),
off the planet--we even collect the bones of the vanquished and show
them like trophies.


Curiosity is a valuable trait.  It will make the simians learn many
things.  But the curiosity of a simian is as excessive as the toil
of an ant.  Each simian will wish to know more than his head can
hold, let alone ever deal with; and those whose minds are active
will wish to know everything going.  It would stretch a god's skull
to accomplish such an ambition, yet simians won't like to think it's
beyond their powers.  Even small tradesmen and clerks, no matter how
thrifty, will be eager to buy costly encyclopedias, or books of all
knowledge.  Almost every simian family, even the dullest, will think
it is due to themselves to keep all knowledge handy.

Their idea of a liberal education will therefore be a great
hodge-pod only.  He who narrows his field and digs deep will be
viewed as an alien.  If more than one man in a hundred should thus
dare to concentrate, the ruinous effects of being a specialist will
be sadly discussed.  It may make a man exceptionally useful, they
will have to admit; but still they will feel badly, and fear that
civilization will suffer.


One of their curious educational ideas--but a natural one--will
be shown in the efforts they will make to learn more than one
"language."  They will set their young to spending a decade or
more of their lives in studying duplicate systems--whole systems--of
chatter.  Those who thus learn several different ways to say the same
things, will command much respect, and those who learn many will be
looked on with awe--by true simians.  And persons without this
accomplishment will be looked down on a little, and will actually
feel quite apologetic about it themselves.

Consider how enormously complicated a complete language must be,
with its long and arbitrary vocabulary, its intricate system of
sounds; the many forms that single words may take, especially if
they are verbs; the rules of grammar, the sentence structure, the
idioms, slang and inflections.  Heavens, what a genius for tongues
these simians have![1]  Where another race, after the most frightful
discord and pains, might have slowly constructed one language before
this earth grew cold, this race will create literally hundreds, each
complete in itself, and many of them with quaint little systems of
writing attached.  And the owners of this linguistic gift are so
humble about it, they will marvel at bees, for their hives, and at
beavers' mere dams.

[1] You remember what Kipling says in the Jungle Books, about how
disgusted the quiet animals were with the Bandarlog, because they
were eternally chattering, would never keep still.  Well, this is
the good side of it.


To return, however, to their fear of being too narrow, in going
to the other extreme they will run to incredible lengths.  Every
civilized simian, every day of his life, in addition to whatever
older facts he has picked up, will wish to know all the news of
all the world.  If he felt any true concern to know it, this
would be rather fine of him: it would imply such a close solidarity
on the part of this genus.  (Such a close solidarity would seem
crushing, to others; but that is another matter.)  It won't be
true concern, however, it will be merely a blind inherited instinct.
He'll forget what he's read, the very next hour, or moment.  Yet
there he will faithfully sit, the ridiculous creature, reading of
bombs in Spain or floods in Thibet, and especially insisting on all
the news he can get of the kind our race loved when they scampered
and fought in the forest, news that will stir his most primitive
simian feelings,--wars, accidents, love affairs, and family quarrels.

To feed himself with this largely purposeless provender, he will pay
thousands of simians to be reporters of such events day and night;
and they will report them on such a voluminous scale as to smother
or obscure more significant news altogether.  Great printed sheets
will be read by every one every day; and even the laziest of this
lazy race will not think it labor to perform this toil.  They won't
like to eat in the morning without their papers, such slaves they
will be to this droll greed for knowing.  They won't even think it
is droll, it is so in their blood.

Their swollen desire for investigating everything about them,
including especially other people's affairs, will be quenchless.
Few will feel that they really are "fully informed"; and all will
give much of each day all their lives to the news.

Books too will be used to slake this unappeasable thirst.  They
will actually hold books in deep reverence.  Books!  Bottled
chatter! things that some other simian has formerly said.  H. 8.
fo. 1. affirmeth plainly, that if a man beat an out-law, a
traitor, a Pagan, his villein, or his wife, it is dispunishable,
because by the Law Common these persons can haue no action: God
send Gentle women better sport, or better companie.

"But it seemeth to be very true, that there is some kind of castigation
which Law permits a Husband to vse; for if a woman be threatned by
her husband to bee beaten, mischieued, or slaine, Fitzherbert sets
donne a Writ which she may sve out of Chancery to compell him to
finde surety of honest behauiour toward her, and that he shall
neither doe nor procure to be done to her (marke I pray you) any
bodily damage, otherwise then appertaines to the office of a Husband
for lawfull and reasonable correction.

See for this the new Nat. bre. fo. 80 f. & fo. 23S f.

"How farre that extendeth I cannot tell, but herein the sexe
feminine is at no very great disaduantage: for first for the
lawfulnesse; If it be in no other regard lawfull to beat a man's
wife, then because the poore wench can sve no other action for it, I
pray why may not the Wife beat the Husband againe, what action can
he haue if she doe: where two tenants in Common be on a horse, and
one them will trauell and vse this horse, hee may keepe it from his
Companion a yeare two or three and so be euen with him; so the
actionlesse woman beaten by her Husband, hath retaliation left to
beate him againe, if she dare. If he come to the Chancery or
Justices in the Country of the peace against her, because her
recognizance alone will hardly bee taken, he were best be bound for
her, and then if he be beaten the second time, let him know the
price of it on God's name."]

Yet behind these unchanging institutions, a pressure has been for
centuries becoming concentrated, which, now that it has begun to
act, is threatening to overthrow them all. It has not yet operated
very visibly in the Old World, where (even in England) the majority
of women have not yet mastered the alphabet, and can not sign their
own names in the marriage-register. But in this country, the vast
changes of the last twelve years are already a matter of history.
No trumpet has been sounded, no earthquake felt, while State after
State has ushered into legal existence one half of the population
within its borders. Every Free State in the American Union, except
perhaps Illinois and New Jersey, has conceded to married women, in
some form, the separate control of property.

Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania have gone farther,
and given them the control of their own earnings,--given it wholly
and directly, that is,--while New York and other States have given
it partially or indirectly. Legislative committees in Ohio and
Wisconsin have recommended, in printed reports, the extension of
the right of suffrage to women; Kentucky (like Canada) has actually
extended it, in certain educational matters, and a Massachusetts
legislative committee has suggested the same thing; while the
Kansas Constitutional Convention came within a dozen votes of extending
it without reserve, and expunging the word _male_ from the Constitution.
Surely, here and now, might poor M. Maréchal exclaim. The bitter fruits
of the original seed appear, and the sad question recurs, whether
women ought ever to have tasted of the alphabet.

Mr. Everett, perhaps without due caution, advocated, last summer,
the affirmative of this question. With his accustomed eloquence, he
urged on the attention of Suleiman Bey the fact of the equal
participation of the sexes in the public-school system of Boston,
while omitting to explain to him that the equality is of very recent
standing. No doubt, the eminent Oriental would have been pleased to hear
that this public administration of the alphabet to females, on any
terms, is an institution but little more than a half-century old in
the city of Boston.

It is well established by the early deeds and documents that a large
proportion of Puritan women could not write their own names; and
in Boston especially, for a hundred and fifty years, the public
schools included boys only.

In the year 1789, however, the notable discovery was made, that the
average attendance of pupils from April to October was only one
half of that reported for the remainder of the year. This was an
obvious waste of money and accommodations, and it was therefore
proposed that female pupils should be annually introduced during this
intermediate period. Accordingly, school-girls, like other flowers,
blossomed in summer only; and this state of things lasted, with but
slight modification, for some forty years, according to the
School-Superintendent's Third Report. It was not till 1828 that
all distinctions were abolished in the Boston Common Schools; in
the High Schools lingering far later, sole vestige of the "good old
times," before a mistaken economy overthrew the wholesome doctrine
of M.

Sylvain Maréchal, and let loose the alphabet among women.

It is true that Eve ruined us all, according to theology, without
knowing her letters. Still, there is something to be said in
defence of that venerable ancestress. The Veronese lady, Isotta
Nogarola, five hundred and thirty-six of whose learned letters were
preserved by De Thou, composed a dialogue on the question, Whether
Adam or Eve had committed the greater sin? But Ludovico Domenichi, in
his "Dialogue on the Nobleness of Women," maintains that Eve did
not sin at all, because she was not even created when Adam was
told not to eat the apple.

It is "in Adam all died," he shrewdly says; nobody died in Eve;--which
looks plausible.

Be that as it may, Eve's daughters are in danger of swallowing a
whole harvest of forbidden fruit, in these revolutionary days,
unless something be done to cut off the supply.

It has been seriously asserted that during the last half-century
more books have been written by women and about women than
during all the previous uncounted ages. It may be true; although,
when we think of the innumerable volumes of _Mémoires_ by Frenchwomen
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,--each one justifying
the existence of her own ten volumes by the remark, that all her
contemporaries were writing as many,--we have our doubts. As to the
increased multitude of general treatises on the female sex,
however,--its education, life, health, diseases, charms, dress, deeds,
sphere, rights, wrongs, work, wages, encroachments, and idiosyncrasies
generally,--there can be no doubt whatever; and the poorest of these
books recognizes a condition of public sentiment which no other age
ever dreamed of. Still, literary history preserves the names of some
reformers before the Reformation, in this matter.

There was Signora Moderata Fonte, the Venetian, who left a book to
be published after her death, in 1592, "Dei Meriti delle Donne."
There was her townswoman, Lucrezia Marinella, who followed ten years
after, with her essay, "La Nobilità e la Eccelenza delle Donne, con
Difetti e Mancamenti degli Domini,"--a comprehensive theme, truly!

Then followed the all-accomplished Anna Maria Schurman, in 1645,
with her "Dissertatio de Ingenii Muliebris ad Doctrinam et meliores
Literas Aptitudine," with a few miscellaneous letters appended, in
Greek and Hebrew. At last came boldly Jacquette Guillaume, in 1665,
and threw down the gauntlet in her title-page, "Les Dames Illustres;
où par bonnes et fortes Raisons il se prouve que le Sexe Feminin
surpasse en toute Sorte de Genre le Sexe Masculin"; and with her
came Margaret Boufflet and a host of others; and finally, in England,
Mary Wollstonecraft, whose famous book, formidable in its day,
would seem rather conservative now,--and in America, that pious and
worthy dame, Mrs.

H. Mather Crocker, Cotton Mather's grandchild, who, in 1818,
published the first book on the "Rights of Woman" ever written
on this side the Atlantic.

Meanwhile there have never been wanting men, and strong men, to echo
these appeals. From Cornelius Agrippa and his essay (1509) on
the excellence of woman and her preëminence over man, down to the
first youthful thesis of Agassiz, "Mens Feminae Viri Animo superior,"
there has been a succession of voices crying in the wilderness.

In England, Anthony Gibson wrote a book, in 1599, called "A Woman's
Woorth, defended against all the Men in the World, proouing them to
be more Perfect, Excellent, and Absolute in all Vertuous Actions
than any Man of what Qualitie soever, _Interlarded with Poetry." Per
contra,_ the learned Acidalius published a book in Latin and afterwards
in French, to prove that women are not reasonable creatures. Modern
theologians are at worst merely sub-acid, and do not always say
so, if they think so. Meanwhile most persons have been content to
leave the world to go on its old course, in this matter as in others,
and have thus acquiesced in that stern judicial decree, with which
Timon of Athens sums up all his curses upon womankind,--"If there
sit twelve women at the table, let a dozen of them be--as they are."

Ancient or modern, nothing in any of these discussions is so valuable
as the fact of the discussion itself. There is no discussion where
there is no wrong. Nothing so indicates wrong as this morbid
self-inspection. The complaints are a perpetual protest, the defences
a perpetual confession.
It is too late to ignore the question, and once opened, it can be settled
only on absolute and permanent principles. There is a wrong; but
where? Does woman already know too much, or too little? Was she
created for man's subject, or his equal?

Shall she have the alphabet, or not?

Ancient mythology, which undertook to explain everything, easily
accounted for the social and political disabilities of woman. Goguet
quotes the story from St. Augustine, who got it from Varro.
Cecrops, building Athens, saw starting from the earth an olive-plant
and a fountain, side by side. The Delphic oracle said, that this
indicated a strife between Minerva and Neptune for the honor of giving
a name to the city, and that the people must decide between them.
Cecrops thereupon assembled the men, and the women also, who then
had a right to vote; and the result was that Minerva carried the
election by a glorious majority of one.

Then Attica was overflowed and laid waste; of course the citizens
attributed the calamity to Neptune, and resolved to punish the
women. It was therefore determined that in future they should not
vote, nor should any child bear the name of its mother.

Thus easily did mythology explain all troublesome inconsistencies. But
it is much that it should even have recognized them, at so early
an epoch, as needing explanation.

When we ask for a less symbolical elucidation, it lies within our
reach. At least, it is not hard to take the first steps into the
mystery.

There are, to be sure, some flowers of rhetoric in the way. The obstacle
to the participation of woman in the alphabet, or in any other
privilege, has been thought by some to be the fear of impairing
her delicacy, or of destroying her domesticity, or of confounding
the distinction between the sexes. We think otherwise. These have
been plausible excuses; they have even been genuine, though minor,
anxieties. But the whole thing, we take it, had always one simple,
intelligible basis,--sheer contempt for the supposed intellectual
inferiority of woman.

She was not to be taught, because she was not worth teaching. The
learned Acidalius, aforesaid, was in the majority.
According to Aristotle and the Peripatetics, woman was _animal
occasionatum_, as if a sort of monster and accidental production.
Mediaeval councils, charitably asserting her claims to the rank of
humanity, still pronounced her unfit for instruction. In the Hindoo
dramas, she did not even speak the same language with her master,
but used the dialect of slaves. When, in the sixteenth century,
Françoise de Saintonges wished to establish girls' schools in
France, she was hooted in the streets, and her father called together
four doctors, learned in the law, to decide whether she was not
possessed by demons, to think of educating women,--_pour s'assurer
qu'instraire des femmes n'était pas un oeuvre du démon_.

It was the same with political rights. The foundation of the Salic
Law was not any sentimental anxiety to guard female delicacy and
domesticity; it was, as stated by Froissart, a blunt, hearty
contempt:
"The kingdom of France being too noble to be ruled by a woman."

And the same principle was reaffirmed for our own institutions,
in rather softened language, by Theophilus Parsons, in his famous
defence of the rights of Massachusetts _men_ (the "Essex Result,"
in 1778): "Women, what age soever they are of, are not considered
as having a sufficient acquired discretion [to exercise the
franchise]."
In harmony with this are the various maxims and _bon mots_ of eminent
men, in respect to women. Niebuhr thought he should not have educated
a girl well,--he should have made her know too much.

Lessing said, "The woman who thinks is like the man who puts on rouge,
ridiculous."

Voltaire said, "Ideas are like beards; women and young men have none."
And witty Dr. Maginn carries to its extreme the atrocity: "We
like to hear a few words of sense from a woman, as we do from a
parrot, because they are so unexpected." Yet how can we wonder at
these opinions, when the saints have been severer than the sages?
since the pious Fénelon taught that true virgin delicacy was
almost as incompatible with learning as with vice,--and Dr.

Channing complained, in his "Essay on Exclusion and Denunciation,"
of "women forgetting the tenderness of their sex" and arguing on
theology.

Now this impression of feminine inferiority may be right or wrong,
but it obviously does a good deal towards explaining the facts it
takes for granted.

If contempt does not originally cause failure, it perpetuates it.

Systematically discourage any individual or class, from birth
to death, and they learn, in nine cases out of ten, to acquiesce
in their degradation, if not to claim it as a crown of glory.
If the Abbé Choisi praised the Duchesse de Fontanges for being
"beautiful as an angel and silly as a goose," it was natural that
all the young ladies of the court should resolve to make up in folly
what they wanted in charms.

All generations of women having been bred under the shadow of
intellectual contempt, they have of course done much to justify it.
They have often used only for frivolous purposes even the poor
opportunities allowed them. They have employed the alphabet, as Molière
said, chiefly in spelling the verb _Amo_. Their use of science has
been like that of Mlle. de Launay, who computed the decline in her
lover's affection by his abbreviation of their evening walk in the
public square, preferring to cross it rather than take the
circuit,--"From which I inferred," she says, "that his passion had
diminished in the ratio between the diagonal of a rectangular
parallelogram and the sum of two adjacent sides."

And their conception, even of Art, has been too often on the
scale of Properzia de Rossi, who carved sixty-five heads on a
walnut, the smallest of all recorded symbols of woman's sphere.

All this might perhaps be overcome, if the social prejudice which
discourages woman would only reward proportionately those who surmount
the discouragement.
XII


A doctor, who was making a study of monkeys, once told me that he
was trying experiments that bore on the polygamy question.  He had
a young monkey named Jack who had mated with a female named Jill;
and in another cage another newly-wedded pair, Arabella and Archer.
Each pair seemed absorbed in each other, and devoted and happy.
They even bugged each other at mealtime and exchanged bits of food.

After a time their transports grew less fiery, and their affections
less fixed.  Archer got a bit bored.  He was decent about it,
though, and when Arabella cuddled beside him he would more or less
perfunctorily embrace her.  But when he forgot, she grew cross.

The same thing occurred a little later in the Jack and Jill cage,
only there it was Jill who became a little tired of Jack.

Soon each pair was quarreling.  They usually made up, pretty
soon, and started loving again.  But it petered out; each time
more quickly.

Meanwhile the two families had become interested in watching each
other.  When Jill had repulsed Jack, and he had moped about it
awhile, he would begin staring at Arabella, over opposite, and
trying to attract her attention.  This got Jack in trouble all
around.  Arabella indignantly made faces at him and then turned
her back; and as for Jill, she grew furious, and tore out his fur.

But in the next stage, they even stopped hating each other.  Each
pair grew indifferent.

Then the doctor put Jack in with Arabella, and Archer with Jill.
Arabella  promptly yielded to Jack.  New devotion.  More transports.
Jill  and  Archer were  shocked.  Jill clung to the bars of her
cage, quivering, and screaming  remonstrance; and even blase Archer
chattered angrily at some of the scenes.  Then the doctor hung
curtains between the cages to shut out the view.  Jill and Archer,
left to each other, grew interested.  They soon were inseparable.

The four monkeys, thus re-distributed, were now happy once more, and
full of new liveliness and spirit.  But before very long, each pair
quarreled--and made up--and quarreled--and then grew indifferent, and
had cynical thoughts about life.

At this point, the doctor put them back with their original mates.

And--they met with a rush!  Gave cries of recognition and joy,
like faithful souls re-united.  And when they were tired, they
affectionately curled up together; and hugged each other even at
mealtime, and exchanged bits of food.


This was as far as the doctor had gotten, at the time that I met
him; and as I have lost touch with him since, I don't know how
things were afterward.  His theory at the time was, that variety
was good for fidelity.

"So how can /we/ help being that way?  It's in the blood," he
concluded.  "Some creatures, such as wolves, are more serious;
or perhaps more cold-blooded.  Never mate but once. Well--we're
not wolves.  We can't make wolves our models.  If we want to know
how to behave, according to the way nature made us, if we want to
know what is good for our instincts, we must study the monkeys."

To be sure, these particular monkeys were living in idleness.
This corresponds to living in high social circles with us, where
men do not have to work, and lack some of the common incentives to
home-building.  The experiment was not conclusive.

Still, even in low social circles--


XIII


Are we or are we not simians?  It is no use for any man to try to
think anything else out until he has decided first of all where he
stands on that question.  It is not only in love affairs: let us
lay all that aside for the moment.  It is in ethics, economics,
art, education, philosophy, what-not.  If we are fallen angels,
we should go this road: if we are super-apes, that.

"Our problem is not to discover what we ought to do if we were
different, but what we ought to do, being what we are.  There
is no end to the beings we can imagine different  from  ourselves;
but they do not exist," and we cannot be sure they would be better
than we if they did.  For, when we imagine them, we must imagine
their entire environment; they would have to be a part of some
whole that does not now exist.  And that new whole, that new reality,
being merely a figment of our little minds, "would probably be
inferior to the reality that is.  For there is this to be said in
favor of reality: that we have nothing to compare it with.  Our
fantasies are always incomplete, because they are fantasies.  And
reality is complete.  We cannot compare their incompleteness with
its completeness."[1]

[1] From an anonymous article entitled "Tolstoy and Russia" in the
London Times, Sept. 26,1918.

Too many moralists begin with a dislike of reality: a dislike of men
as they are.  They are free to dislike them--but not at the same time
to be moralists.  Their feeling leads them to ignore the obligation
which should rest on all teachers, "to discover the best that man
can do, not to set impossibilities before him and tell him that if
he does not perform them he is damned."

Man is moldable; very; and it is desirable that he should aspire.
But he is apt to be hasty about accepting any and all general ideals
without figuring out whether they are suitable for simian use.

One result of his habit of swallowing whole most of the ideals
that occur to him, is that he has swallowed a number that strongly
conflict.  Any ideal whatever strains our digestions if it is hard
to assimilate: but when two at once act on us in different ways, it
is unbearable.  In such a case, the poets will prefer the ideal
that's idealest: the hard-headed instinctively choose the one adapted
to simians.

Whenever this is argued, extremists spring up on each side.  One
extremist will say that being mere simians we cannot transcend much,
and will seem to think that having limitations we should preserve
them forever.  The other will declare that we are not merely simians,
never were just plain animals; or, if we were, souls were somehow
smuggled in to us, since which time we have been different.  We have
all been perfect at heart since that date, equipped with beautiful
spirits, which only a strange perverse obstinacy leads us to soil.

What this obstinacy is, is the problem that confronts theologians.
They won't think of it as simian-ness; they call it original sin.
They regard it as the voice of some devil, and say good men should
not listen to it.  The scientists say it isn't a devil, it is part
of our nature, which should of course be civilized and guided, but
should not be stamped out.  (It might mutilate  us  dangerously to
become under-simianized.  Look at Mrs. Humphry Ward and George
Washington.  Worthy souls, but no flavor.)


In every field of thought then, two schools appear, that are divided
on this: Must we forever be at heart high-grade simians?  Or are we
at heart something else?

For example, in education, we have in the main two great systems.
One depends upon discipline.  The other on exciting the interest.
The teacher who does not recognize or allow for our simian nature,
keeps little children at work for long periods at dull and dry
tasks.  Without some such discipline, he fears that his boys will
lack strength.  The other system believes they will learn more when
their interest is roused; and when their minds, which are mobile by
nature, are allowed to keep moving.

Or in politics: the best government for simians seems to be based
on a parliament: a talk-room, where endless vague thoughts can be
warmly expressed.  This is the natural child of those primeval
sessions that gave pleasure to apes.  It is neither an ideal nor
a rational arrangement, of course.  Small executive committees would
be better.  But not if we are simians.

Or in industry: Why do factory workers produce more in eight hours a
day than in ten?  It is absurd.  Super-sheep could not do it.  But
that is the way men are made.  To preach to such beings about the
dignity of labor is futile.  The dignity of labor is not a simian
conception at all.  True simians hate to have to work steadily: they
call it grind and confinement.  They are always ready to pity the
toilers who are condemned to this fate, and to congratulate those
who escape it, or who can do something else.  When they see some
performer in spangles risk his life, at a circus, swinging around
on trapezes, high up in the air, and when they are told he must do
it daily, do they pity /him?/  No!  Super-elephants would say, and
quite properly, "What a horrible life!"  But it naturally seems
stimulating to simians.  Boys envy the fellow.  On the other hand
whenever we are told about factory life, we instinctively shudder
to think of enduring such evils.  We see some old work-man, filling
cans with a whirring machine; and we hear the humanitarians telling
us, indignant and grieving, that he actually must stand in that nice,
warm, dry room every day, safe from storms and wild beasts, and with
nothing to do but fill cans; and at once we groan: "How deadly!  What
montonous toil!  Shorten his hours!"  His work would seem blissful to
super-spiders,--but to us it's intolerable.  "Grind and confinement?"
That's the strong monkey-blood in our veins.

Our monkey-blood is also apparent in our judgments of crime.  If a
crime is committed on impulse, we partly forgive it.  Why?  Because,
being simians, with a weakness for yielding to impulses, we like to
excuse ourselves by feeling not accountable for them.  Elephants
would have probably taken an opposite stand. They aren't creatures
of impulse, and would be shocked at crimes due to such causes; their
fault is the opposite one of pondering too long over injuries, and
becoming vindictive in the end, out of all due proportion.  If a
young super-elephant were to murder another on impulse, they would
consider him a dangerous character and string him right up.  But if
he could prove that he had long thought of doing it, they would tend
to forgive him.  "Poor fellow, he brooded," they would say.  "That's
upsetting to any one."

As to modesty and decency, if we are simians we have done well,
considering: but if we are something else--fallen angels--we have
indeed fallen far.  Not being modest by instinct we invent artificial
ideals, which are doubtless well-meaning but are inherently of course
second-rate, so that even at our best we smell prudish.  And as
for our worst, when .we as we say let ourselves go, we dirty the
life-force unspeakably, with chuckles and leers.  But a race so
indecent by nature as the simians are would naturally have a hard
time behaving as though they were not: and the strain of pretending
that their thoughts were all pretty and sweet, would naturally send
them to smutty extremes for relief.  The standards of purity we have
adopted are far too strict--for simians.


XIV


We were speaking a while ago of the fertility with which simians
breed.  This is partly due to the constant love interest they
take in each other, but it is also reenforced by their reliance
on numbers.  That reliance will be deep, since, to their numbers,
they will owe much success.  It will be thus that they will drive
out other species, and garrison the globe.  Such a race would
naturally come to esteem fertility.  It will seem profane not to.

As time goes on, however, the advantage of numbers will end; and
in their higher stages, large numbers will be a great drawback.  The
resources of a planet are limited, at each stage of the arts.  Also,
there is only a limited space on a planet.  Yet it will come hard
to them to think of ever checking their increase.  They will bring
more young into existence than they can either keep well or feed.
The earth will be covered with them everywhere, as far as eye can
see.  North and south, east and west, there will always be simians
huddling.  Their cities will be far more distressing than cities of
vermin,--for vermin are healthy and calm and successful in life.

Ah, those masses of people--unintelligent, superstitious,
uncivilized!  What a dismal drain they will be on the race's
strength!  Not merely will they lessen its ultimate chance of
achievement; their hardships will always distress and preoccupy
minds,--fine, generous minds,--that might have done great things
if free: that might have done something constructive at least,
for their era, instead of being burned out attacking mere
anodyne-problems.

Nature will do what it can to lessen the strain, providing an
appropriate remedy for their bad behavior in plagues.  Many
epochs will pass before the simians will learn or dare to
control them--for they won't think they can, any more than
they dare control propagation.  They will reverently call
their propagation and plagues "acts of God."  When they get
tired of reverence and stop their plagues, it will be too soon.
Their inventiveness will be--as usual--ahead of their wisdom;
and they will unfortunately end the good effects of plagues
(as a check) before they are advanced enough to keep down their
numbers themselves.

Meanwhile, when, owing to the pressure of other desires, any group of
primates does happen to become less prolific, they will feel ashamed,
talk of race suicide, and call themselves decadent.  And they will
often be right: for though some regulation of the birth-rate is an
obvious good, and its diminution often desirable in any planet's
history, yet among simians it will be apt to come from second-rate
motives.  Greed, selfishness or fear-thoughts will be the incentives,
the bribes.  Contrivances, rather than continence,  will be the
method.  How audacious, and how disconcerting to Nature, to baffle
her thus I  Even into her shrine they must thrust their bold paws to
control her.  Another race viewing them in the garlanded chambers of
love, unpacking their singular devices, might think them grotesque:
but the busy little simians will be blind to such quaint incongruities.


Still, there is a great gift that their excess of passion will bestow
on this race: it will give them romance.  It will teach them what
little they ever will learn about love.  Other animals have little
romance: there is none in the rut: that seasonal madness that drives
them to mate with perhaps the first comer.  But the simians will
attain to a fine descrimination in love, and this will be their path
to  the only spiritual heights they can reach.  For, in love, their
inmost selves will draw near, in the silence of truth; learning
little by little what the deepest sincerity means, and what clean
hearts and minds and what crystal-clear sight it demands.  Such
intercommunication of spirit with spirit is at the beginning of all
true understanding.  It is the beginning of silent cosmic wisdom: it
may lead to knowing the ways of that power called God.


XV


Not content with the whole of a planet and themselves too, to study,
this race's children will also study the heavens.  How few kinds of
creatures would ever have felt that impulse, and yet how natural it
will seem to these!  How boundless and magnificent is the curiosity
of these tiny beings, who sit and peer out at the night from their
small whirling globe, considering deeply the huge cold seas of space,
and learning with wonderful skill to measure the stars.

In studies so vast, however, they are tested to the core.  In these
great journeys  the traveller must pay dear for his flaws.  For it
always is when you most finely are exerting your strength that every
weakness you have most tells against you.

One weakness of the primates is the character of their
self-consciousness.  This useful faculty, that can probe so-deep,
has one naive defect--it relies too readily on its own findings.
It doesn't suspect enough its own unconfessed predilections.
It assumes that it can be completely impartial--but isn't.  To
instance an obvious way in which it will betray them: beings that
are intensely self-conscious and aware of their selves, will also
instinctively feel that their universe is.  What active principle
animates the world, they will ask.  A great blind force?  It is
possible.  But they will recoil from admitting any such possibility.
A self-aware purposeful force then?  That is better!  (More simian.)
"A blind force can't have been the creator of all.  It's unthinkable."
Any theory /their/ brains find "unthinkable" cannot be true.

(This is not to argue that it really is a blind force--or the opposite.
It is merely an instance of how little impartial they are.)


A second typical weakness of this race will come from their fears.
They are not either self-sufficing or gallant enough to travel great
roads without cringing,--clear-eyed, unafraid. They are finely made,
but not nobly made,--in that sense.  They will therefore have a too
urgent need of religion.  Few primates have the courage to face--
alone--the still inner mysteries: Infinity, Space and Time.  They
will think it too terrible, they will feel it would turn them to
water, to live through unearthly moments of vision without creeds
or beliefs.  So they'll get beliefs first.  Ah, poor creatures! The
cart before the horse!  Ah, the blasphemy (pitiful!) of their seeking
high spiritual temples, with god-maps or bibles about them, made
below in advance!  Think of their entering into the presence of
Truth, declaring so loudly and boldly they know her already, yet
far from willing to stand or fall by her flames--to rise like a
phoenix or die as an honorable cinder!--but creeping in, clad in
their queer blindfolded beliefs, designed to shield them from her
stern, bright tests!  Think of Truth sadly--or merrily--eyeing
such worms!


XVI


Imagine you are watching the Bandarlog at play in the forest.  As
you behold them and comprehend their natures, now hugely brave and
boastful, now full of dread, the most weakly emotional of any
intelligent species, ever trying to attract the notice of some
greater animal, not happy indeed unless noticed,--is it not plain
they are bound to invent things called gods?  Don't think for the
moment of whether there are gods or not; think of how sure these
beings would be to invent them.  (Not wait to find them.)  Having
small self-reliance they can not bear to face life alone.  With no
self-sufficingness, they must have the countenance of others.  It
is these pressing needs that will hurry the primates to build, out
of each shred of truth they can possibly twist to their purpose, and
out of imaginings that will impress them because they are vast, deity
after deity to prop up their souls.

What a strange company they will be, these gods, in their day, each
of them an old bearded simian up in the sky, who begins by fishing
the universe out of a void, like a conjurer taking a rabbit out of
a hat.  (A hat which, if it resembled a void, wasn't there.)  And
after creating enormous suns and spheres, and filling the farthest
heavens with vaster stars, one god will turn back and long for the
smell of roast flesh, another will call desert tribes to "holy"
wars, and a third will grieve about divorce or dancing.

All gods that any groups of simians ever conceive of, from the
woodenest little idol in the forest to the mightiest Spirit, no
matter how much they may differ, will have one trait in common:
a readiness to drop any cosmic affair at short notice, focus their
minds on the far-away pellet called Earth, and become immediately
wholly concerned, aye, engrossed, with any individual worshipper's
woes or desires,--a readiness to notice a fellow when he is going
to bed.  This will bring indescribable comfort to simian hearts;
and a god that neglects this duty won't last very long, no matter
how competent he may be in other respects.

But one must reciprocate.  For the maker of the Cosmos, as they see
him, wants noticing too; he is fond of the deference and attention
that simians pay him, and naturally he will be angry if it is
withheld;--or if he is not, it will be most magnanimous of him.
Hence prayers and hymns.  Hence queer vague attempts at communing
with this noble kinsman.

To desire communion with gods is a lofty desire, but hard to attain
through an ignobly definite creed.  Dealing with the highest, most
wordless states of being, the simians will attempt to conceive them
in material form.  They will have beliefs, for example, as to the
furnishings and occupations in heaven.  And why?  Why, to help men
to have religious conceptions without themselves being seers,--which
in any true sense of "religious" is an impossible plan.


In their efforts to be concrete they will make their creeds amusingly
simian.  Consider the simian amorousness of Jupiter, and the brawls
on Olympus.  Again, in the old Jewish Bible, what tempts the first
pair?  The Tree of Knowledge, of course.  It appealed to the
curiosity of their nature, and who could control /that!/

And Satan in the Bible is distinctly a simian's devil.  The snake, it
is known, is the animal monkeys most dread.  Hence when men give their
devil a definite form they make him a snake.  A race of super-chickens
would have pictured their devil a hawk.


XVII


What are the handicaps this race will have in building religions?
The greatest is this: they have such small psychic powers.  The
over-activity of their minds will choke the birth of such powers,
or dull them.  The race will be less in touch with Nature, some
day, than its dogs.  It will substitute the compass for its once
innate sense of direction.  It will lose its gifts of natural
intuition, premonition, and rest, by encouraging its use of the
mind to be cheaply incessant.

This lack of psychic power will cheat them of insight and poise;
for minds that are wandering and active, not receptive and still,
can seldom or never be hushed to a warm inner peace.

One service these restless minds however will do: they eventually will
uncritically through the religions they themselves have invented.

But ages will be thrown away in repeating this process.


A simian creed will not be very hard thus to pierce.  When forming
a religion, they will be in far too much haste, to wait to apply a
strict test to their holy men's visions.   A Raven saw a Swan, and
desired to secure for himself a like beauty of plumage. Supposing
that his splendid white color arose from his washing in the
water in which he swam, the Raven left the altars in the
neighborhood of which he picked up his living, and took up his
abode in the lakes and pools.

But cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
their color, while through want of food he perished.

Change of habit cannot alter nature.
The Lioness.These "believers" will have no
white insight at all of their own.

Now, a second-hand believer who is warmed at one remove--if at all
--by the breath of the spirit, will want to have exact definitions
in the beliefs he accepts.  Not having had a vision to go by, he
needs plain commandments.  He will always try to crystallize creeds.
And that, plainly, is fatal.  For as time goes on, new and remoter
aspects of truth are discovered, which can seldom or never be fitted
into creeds that are changeless.


Over and over again, this will be the process: A spiritual
personality will be born; see new truth; and be killed.  His new
truth not only will not fit into too rigid creeds, but whatever
false finality is in them it must contradict.  So, the seer will
be killed.

His truth being mighty, however, it will kill the creeds too.

There will then be nothing left to believe in--except the dead seer.

For a few generations he may then be understandingly honored.
But his priests will feel that is not enough: he must be honored
uncritically: so uncritically that, whatever his message, it must
be deemed the Whole Truth.  Some of his message they themselves will
have garbled; and it was not, at best, final; but still it will be
made into a fixed creed and given his name.  Truth will be given his
name.  All men who thereafter seek truth must find only his kind,
else they won't be his "followers."  (To be his co-seekers won't do.)
Priests will always hate any new seers who seek further for truth.
Their feeling will be that their seer found it, and thus ended all
that.  Just believe what he says. The job's over.  No more truth
need be sought.

It's a comforting thing to believe  cosmic search nicely settled.

Thus the mold will be hardened.  So new truths, when they come, can
but break  it.  Then men will feel distraught and disillusioned, and
civilizations will fall.

Thus each cycle will run.  So long as men interwine falsehoods with
every seer's visions, both perish, and every civilization that is
built on them must perish too.


XVIII


If men can ever learn to accept all their truths as not final, and if
they can ever learn to build on something better than dogma, they may
not be found saying, discouragedly, every once in so often, that every
civilization carries in it the seeds of decay.  It will carry such
seeds with great certainty, though, when they're put there, by the
very race, too, that will later deplore the results.  Why shouldn't
creeds totter when they are jerry-built creeds?

On stars where creeds come late in the life of a race; where they
spring from the riper, not cruder, reactions of spirit; where they
grow out of nobly developed psychic powers that have put their
possessors in tune with cosmic music; and where no cheap hallucinations
discredit their truths; they perhaps run a finer, more beautiful course
than the simians', and open the eyes of the soul to far loftier visions.


XIX


It has always been a serious matter for men when a civilization
decayed.  But it may at some future day prove far more serious
still.  Our hold on the planet is not absolute.  Our descendants
may lose it.

Germs may do them out of it.  A chestnut fungus springs up, defies
us, and kills all our chestnuts.  The boll weevil very nearly baffles
us.   The  fly  seems  unconquerable.  Only  a strong civilization,
when such foes are about, can preserve us.  And our present efforts
to cope with such beings are fumbling and slow.

We haven't the habit of candidly facing this danger.  We read our
biological history but we don't take it in.  We blandly assume we
were always "intended" to rule, and that no other outcome could even
be considered by Nature.  This is one of the remnants of ignorance
certain religions have left: but it's odd that men who don't believe
in Easter should still believe this.  For the facts are of course
this is a hard and precarious world, where every mistake and
infirmity must be paid for in full.


If mankind ever is swept aside as a failure however, what a brilliant
and enterprising failure he at least will have been.  I felt this
with a kind of warm suddenness only today, as I finished these
dreamings and drove through the gates of the park.  I had been
shutting my modern surroundings out of my thoughts, so completely,
and living as it were in the wild world of ages ago, that when I
let myself come back suddenly to the twentieth century, and stare
at the park and the people, the change was tremendous.  It is the
oldest of legal traditions.
When Blackstone declares that "the very being and existence of the
woman is suspended during the marriage," and American Kent echoes
that "her legal existence and authority are in a manner lost,"--when
Petersdorff asserts that "the husband has the right of imposing
such corporeal restraints as he may deem necessary," and Bacon that
"the husband hath, by law, power and dominion over his wife, and
may keep her by force within the bounds of duty, and may beat her,
but not in a violent or cruel manner,"[A]--when Mr.

Justice Coleridge rules that the husband, in certain cases, "has a right
to confine his wife in his own dwelling-house and restrain her from
liberty for an indefinite time," and Baron Alderson sums it all up
tersely, "The wife is only the _servant_ of her husband,"--these
high authorities simply reaffirm the dogma of the Gentoo code, four
thousand years old and more:--"A man, both day and night, must
keep his wife so much in subjection that she by no means be mistress
of her own actions.

If the wife have her own free will, notwithstanding she be of a
superior caste, she will behave amiss."
[Footnote A: It may be well to fortify this point by a racy extract
from that rare and amusing old book, the pioneer of its class, entitled
"The Lawes Resolutions of Women's Rights, or the Lawes Provision
for Woman.
A Methodicall Collection of such Statutes and Customes, with the
Cases, Opinions, Arguments, and Points of Learning in the Law as
doe properly concern Women."

We once thought we lived on God's footstool: it may be
a throne.

This is no world for pessimists.  An amoeba on the beach, blind and
helpless, a mere bit of pulp,--that amoeba has grandsons today who
read Kant and play symphonies.  Will those grandsons in turn have
descendants who will sail  through the void, discover the foci of
forces, the means to control them, and learn how to marshal the
planets and grapple with space?  Would it after all be any more
startling than our rise from the slime?

No sensible amoeba would have ever believed for a minute that any
of his most remote children would build and run dynamos.  Few
sensible men of today stop to feel, in their hearts, that we live
in the very same world where that miracle happened.

This world, and our racial adventure, are magical still.


XX


Yet although for high-spirited marchers the march is sufficient,
there still is that other way of looking at it that we dare not
forget.  Our adventure may satisfy /us:/ does it satisfy Nature?
She is letting us camp for awhile here among the wrecked graveyards
of mightier dynasties, not one of which met her tests.  Their bones
are the message the epochs she murdered have left us: we have learned
to decipher their sickening warning at last.


Yes, and even if we are permitted to have a long reign, and are not
laid away with the failures, are we a success?

We need so much spiritual insight, and we have so little.  Our
telescopes may some day disclose to us the hills of Arcturus, but
how will that help us if we cannot find the soul of the world?  Is
that soul alive and loving? or cruel? or callous? or dead?

We have no sure vision. Hopes, guesses, beliefs--that is all.

There are sounds we are deaf to, there are strange sights invisible
to us.  There are whole realms of splendor, it may be, of which
we are heedless; and which we are as blind to as ants to the call
of the sea.

Life is enormously flexible--look at all that we've done to our
dogs,--but we carry our hairy past with us wherever we go.  The
wise St. Bernards and the selfish toy lap-dogs are brothers, and
some things are possible for them and others are not.  So with us.
There are definite limits to simian civilizations, due in part to
some primitive traits that help keep us alive, and in part to the
mere fact that every being has to be something, and when one is a
simian one is not also everything else.  Our main-springs are fixed,
and our principal traits are deep-rooted.  We cannot now re-live
the ages whose imprint we bear.

We have but to look back on our past to have hope in our future:
but--it will be only /our/ future, not some other race's.  We shall
win our own triumphs, yet know that they would have been different,
had we cared above all for creativeness, beauty, or love.


So we run about, busy and active, marooned on this star, always
violently struggling, yet with no clearly seen goal before us.
In mathematical correctness of detail, unrivalled finish of
texture, and with these, in many cases, the highest characterization,
busts from his hand have an absolute artistic value, independent
of likeness, like a portrait by Vandyck or Titian.Cats
would spend their span of life, say, trying new kinds of guile.
And we, who crave so much to know, crave so little but knowing.
Some of us wish to know Nature most; those are the scientists.
Others, the saints and philosophers, wish to know God.  Both are
alike in their hearts, yes, in spite of their quarrels.  Both
seek to assuage to no end, the old simian thirst.

If we wanted to /be/ Gods--but ah, can we grasp that ambition?