
If the framework of the narrative is epic, its treatment is
frequently dramatic.  The "Usage of Europe" in the opening pages is
not so much a record as a personification of unwritten Law:  the
Great Eltchi tramps the stage with a majesty sometimes bordering on
fustian.  Dramatic is the story of the sleeping Cabinet.  "It was
evening--a summer evening"--one thinks of a world-famous passage in
the "De Corona"--when the Duke of Newcastle carried to Richmond
Lodge the fateful despatch committing England to the war.  "Before
the reading of the Paper had long continued, all the members of the
Cabinet except a small minority were overcome with sleep"; the few
who remained awake were in a quiet, assenting frame of mind, and
the despatch "received from the Cabinet the kind of approval which
is awarded to an unobjectionable Sermon."  Not less dramatic is
Nolan's death; the unearthly shriek of the slain corpse erect in
saddle with sword arm high in air, as the dead horseman rode still
seated through the 13th Light Dragoons; the "Minden Yell" of the
20th driving down upon the Iakoutsk battalion; the sustained and
scathing satire on the Notre Dame Te Deum for the Boulevard
massacre.  The fines are supposed to be due in respect either
of rights of common on the forest, or of trespasses committed
by cattle on it; for the point is a _vexata quæstio_ between the
lord and tenants of Dartmoor and the tenants of the Venville lands,
which lie along the boundaries of it. {153} In the accounts rendered
to the lord of these fines, there was a distinct title, headed
_"Fines Villarum"_ when these accounts were in Latin; and I think
it cannot be doubted that the lands and tenures under this title
came to be currently called _Finevill_ lands from this circumstance.
Hence Fenvill, Fengfield, or Venvill; the last being now the usual
spelling and pronunciation.

R. E. G. may see a specimen of these accounts, and further
observations on them, in Mr.The writer never obtrudes himself, but leaves
his presence to be discerned by the touches which attest an eye-
witness.  Through his observant nearness we watch the Chief's
demeanour and hear his words; see him "turn scarlet with shame and
anger" when the brutal Zouaves carry outrage into the friendly
Crimean village, witness his personal succour of the wounded
Russian after Inkerman, hear his arch acceptance of the French
courtesy, so careful always to yield the post of danger to the
English; his "Go quietly" to the excited aide-de-camp; {17} his
good-humoured reception of the scared and breathless messenger from
D'Aurelle's brigade; the "five words" spoken to Airey commanding
the long delayed advance across the Alma; the "tranquil low voice"
which gave the order rescuing the staff from its unforeseen
encounter with the Russian rear.  He records Codrington's leap on
his grey Arab into the breast-work of the Great Redoubt; Lacy Yea's
passionate energy in forcing his clustered regiment to open out;
Miller's stentorian "Rally" in reforming the Scots Greys after the
Balaclava charge; Clarke losing his helmet in the same charge, and
creating amongst the Russians, as he plunged in bareheaded amongst
their ranks, the belief that he was sheltered by some Satanic
charm.  He notes on the Alma the singular pause of sound maintained
by both armies just before the cannonade began; the first death--of
an artilleryman riding before his gun--a new sight to nine-tenths
of those who witnessed it; {18} the weird scream of exploding
shells as they rent the air around.  He crossed the Alma close
behind Lord Raglan, cantering after him to the summit of a
conspicuous hillock in the heart of the enemy's position, whence
the mere sight of plumed English officers scared the Russian
generals, and, followed soon by guns and troops, governed the issue
of the fight.  The general's manner was "the manner of a man
enlivened by the progress of a great undertaking without being
robbed of his leisure.  He spoke to me, I remember, about his
horse.  The passage is curious, as it would seem to intimate that
Lord Bacon was one of the personages introduced in that very
extraordinary production of the Rabelaisian school.

I have frequently heard the word employed by the country people in
the markets of Geneva.

J. B. D.
_Lachrymatories_ (Vol. ii., pp. 326. 448.).--In illustration of the
question as to the _probable_ use of those small vases so commonly
found in sepulchral monuments, I extract the following from _Wayfaring
Sketches among the Greeks and Turks_. 2d edit.If Lord Raglan was the Hector of the Crimean Iliad, its Agamemnon
was Lord Stratford:  "king of men," as Stanley called him in his
funeral sermon at Westminster; king of distrustful home Cabinets,
nominally his masters, of scheming European embassies, of insulting
Russian opponents, of presumptuous French generals, of false and
fleeting Pashas (Le Sultan, c'est Lord Stratford, said St. Arnaud),
of all men, whatever their degree, who entered his ambassadorial
presence.  Ascendency was native to the man; while yet in his teens
we find Etonian and Cambridge friends writing to him deferentially
as to a critic and superior.  At four and twenty he became Minister
to a Court manageable only by high-handed authority and menace.  He
owned, and for the most part controlled, a violent temper; it broke
bounds sometimes, to our great amusement as we read to-day, to the
occasional discomfiture of attaches or of dependents, {19} to the
abject terror of Turkish Sublimities who had outworn his patience.
But he knew when to be angry; he could pulverize by fiery outbreaks
the Reis Effendi and his master, Abdu-l-Mejid; but as
Plenipotentiary to the United States he could "quench the terror of
his beak, the lightning of his eye," disarming by his formal
courtesy and winning by his obvious sincerity the suspicious and
irritable John Quincy Adams.  _Acclimatizing Plants_.

A Mr. Street, of Biel, in East Lothian, has recently made some
successful attempts at acclimatizing, or giving to exotic plants
greater powers of withstanding cold than they had when first
introduced.Enthroned for the sixth time
in Constantinople, at the dangerous epoch of 1853, he could point
to an unequalled diplomatic record in the past; to the Treaty of
Bucharest, to reunion of the Helvetic Confederacy shattered by
Napoleon's fall, to the Convention which ratified Greek
independence, to the rescue from Austrian malignity of the
Hungarian refugees.

His conduct of the negotiations preceding the Crimean War is justly
called the cornerstone of his career:  at this moment of his
greatness Kinglake encounters and describes him:  through the
brilliant chapters in his opening volume, as more fully later on
through Mr. Lane Poole's admirable biography, the Great Eltchi is
known to English readers.  He moves across the stage with a majesty
sometimes bordering on what Iago calls bombast circumstance; drums
and trumpets herald his every entrance; now pacing the shady
gardens of the Bosphorus, now foiling, "in his grand quiet way,"
the Czar's ferocious Christianity, or torturing his baffled
ambassador by scornful concession of the points which he formally
demanded but did not really want; or crushing with "thin, tight,
merciless lips and grand overhanging Canning brow" the presumptuous
French commander who had dared to enter his presence with a plot
for undermining England's influence in the partnership of the
campaign.  Wherever ague had existed, or ever had been supposed
possible, in those places was this fever found; so that in all the
well-known tracts in Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk, Kent, Essex,
Sussex, Hampshire, &c. there was scarcely a house without one or
more inhabitants under fever, with a considerable mortality. In
the parish of Marston, in Lincolnshire, it amounted to 25 in 300
inhabitants. The same fevers were extremely abundant in various
parts of the outskirts of London, as also in the villages or towns
which are connected with it, within a range of from six to ten
miles. This was the case throughout the range of streets or houses
from Buckingham Gate to Chelsea; in which long line, it is said,
that almost every house had a patient or more under this fever,
though these were mistaken for typhus, or at least thus
misnamed. Then it was also about Vauxhall and Lambeth; and to
a great extent among all that scattered mixture of town and
country which follows from Whitechapel, from Bishopsgate, &c., and
very particularly along Ratcliffe-Highway to an indefinite range
along the river. In Lewisham there were in one house nine patients
under this fever, which proved mortal to one. We may also enumerate
Dulwich, especially subject to this disorder, Fulham, Ealing, and
the several other villages along the Thames, as far as Chertsey;
and even Richmond, where, as at Lewisham, there was one house where
ten individuals at one time were suffering under this disease.

Whatever was the pestilence last year, it promises to be much greater
in the present one.

This is easily judged from the manner in which the season has set
in, but still more decidedly from the extraordinary prevalence of
ague in the spring; since that which was intermittent fever then,
will be remittent in the autumn, or rather, there will scarcely
be a definite season of vernal intermittent, but the remittent
will commence immediately, increasing in extent and severity as
the summer advances, and promising to become, in the autumn, the
greatest season of disease that England has known for this century.We have Aberdeen,
deficient in mental clearness and propelling force, by his horror
of war bringing war to pass; Gladstone, of too subtle intellect and
too lively conscience, "a good man in the worst sense of the term";
Palmerston, above both in keenness of instinct and in strength of
will, meaning war from the first, and biding his time to insure it;
Newcastle, sanguine to the verge of rashness, loyally adherent to
Lord Raglan while governed by his own judgment, distrustful under
stress of popular clamour; Panmure, ungenerous, rough-tongued,
violent, churlish, yet not malevolent--"a rhinoceros rather than a
tiger"--hurried by subservience to the newspaper Press into
injustice which he afterwards recognized, yet did but sullenly
repair.  We see finally that dominant Press itself, personified in
the all-powerful Delane, a potentate with convictions at once
flexible and vehement; forceful without spite and merciless without
malignity; writing no articles, but evoking, shaping, revising all.
The French commanders were not hampered by the muzzled Paris Press,
which had long since ceased to utter any but dictated sentiments;
they suffered even more disastrously from the imperious
interference of the Tuileries.  Canrobert's inaction, mutability,
sudden alarms, flagrant breaches of faith, were inexplicable until
long afterwards, when the fall of the Empire disclosed the secret
instructions--disloyal to his allies and ruinous to the campaign--
by which Louis Napoleon shackled his unhappy General.  In
Canrobert's successor, Pelissier, he met his match.  For the first
time a strong man headed the French army.  Short of stature, bull-
necked and massive in build, with grey hair, long dark moustache,
keen fiery eyes, his coarse rough speech masking tested brain power
and high intellectual culture, he brought new life to the benumbed
French army, new hope to Lord Raglan.  The duel between the
resolute general and the enraged Emperor is narrated with a touch
comedy.  All that Lord Raglan desired, all that the Emperor
forbade, Pelissier was stubbornly determined to accomplish; the
siege should be pressed at once, the city taken at any cost, the
expedition to Kertch resumed.  Once only, under torment of the
Emperor's reproaches and the Minister at War's remonstrances, his
resolution and his nerve gave way; eight days of failing judgment
issued in the Karabelnaya defeat, the severest repulse which the
two armies had sustained; but the paralysis passed away, he showed
himself once more eager to act in concert with the English
general;--when the long-borne strain of disappointment and anxiety
sapped at last Lord Raglan's vital forces, and the hard fierce
Frenchman stood for upwards of an hour beside his dead colleague's
bedside, "crying like a child."

The lieutenants of Lord Raglan in the Crimea have long since passed
away, but in artistic epical presentment they retain their place
around him.  Airey, his right hand from the first disembarkation at
Kalamita Bay, strong-willed, decisive, ardent, thrusting away
suspense and doubt, untying every knot, is vindicated by his Chief
against the Duke of Newcastle's wordy inculpation in the severest
despatch perhaps ever penned to his official superior by a soldier
in the field.  Colin Campbell, with glowing face, grey kindling
eye, light, stubborn, crisping hair, leads his Highland brigade tip
the hill against the Vladimir columns, till "with the sorrowful
wail which bursts from the brave Russian infantry when they have to
suffer loss," eight battalions of the enemy fall back in retreat.
Lord Lucan, tall, lithe, slender, his face glittering and panther-
like in moments of strenuous action, wins our hearts as he won
Kinglake's, in spite of the mis-aimed cleverness and presumptuous
self-confidence which always criticised and sometimes disobeyed the
orders of his Chief.  General Pennefather, "the grand old boy," his
exulting radiant face flashing everywhere through the smoke, his
resonant innocuous oaths roaring cheerily down the line, sustains
all day the handful of our troops against the tenfold masses of the
enemy.  Generous and eloquent are the notices of Korniloff and
Todleben, the great sailor and the great engineer, the soul and the
brain of the Sebastopol defence.  The first fell in the siege, the
second lived to write its history, to become a valued friend of
Kinglake, to explore and interpret in his company long afterwards
the scenes of struggle; his book and his personal guidance gave to
the historian what would otherwise have been unattainable, a clear
knowledge of the conflict as viewed from within the town.

The pitched battlefields of the campaign were three, Alma,
Balaclava, Inkerman.  The Alma chapter is the most graphic, for
there the fight was concentrated, offering to a spectator by Lord
Raglan's side a coup d'oeil of the entire action.  The French were
by bad generalship virtually wiped out; for Bosquet crossed the
river too far to the right, Canrobert was afraid to move without
artillery, Prince Napoleon and St. Arnaud's reserves were jammed
together in the bottom of the valley.  We see, as though on the
spot, the advance, irregular and unsupported, of Codrington's
brigade, their dash into the Great Redoubt and subsequent
disorderly retreat; the enemy checked by the two guns from Lord
Raglan's knoll and by the steadiness of the Royal Fusiliers; the
repulse of the Scots Fusiliers and the peril which hung over the
event; then the superb advance of Guards and Highlanders up the
hill, thin red line against massive columns, which determined
finally the action.

