568. THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS. [Footnote: For the general arrangement
of the material in Sections 568-570, I am indebted to Professor
Beard's _American Government and Politics_, to which text
acknowledgment is here made.]--In the exercise of their judicial
functions the Federal courts have the power of issuing three great
writs affecting the rights of citizens.

Of these the most famous is the writ of _habeas corpus_. This writ is
designed to secure to any imprisoned person the right to have an
immediate preliminary hearing for the purpose of discovering the
reason for his detention. Where the writ is properly issued, the
prisoner is brought into court for a summary examination. If it is
found that he has been detained in violation of law, he is released;
if not, he is remanded for trial.

Federal judges may not issue writs of _habeas corpus_
indiscriminately. A writ can be issued only in the following cases:
First, when a prisoner is in jail under Federal custody or authority;
second, when an individual is in jail for some act done or omitted in
pursuance of a law of the United States or the order, process, or
decree of some Federal court or judge; third, when an individual has
been detained because of violation of the Constitution or some law or
treaty of the United States; and fourth, when a citizen of a foreign
country claims to be imprisoned for some act committed with the
sanction of his government.

569. THE WRIT OF MANDAMUS.--The writ of mandamus may be used against
public officials, private persons, and corporations, for the purpose
of forcing them to perform some duty required of them by law. Properly
used, the writ of mandamus is called into action to compel executive
officers to perform some administrative duty. The court will not
intervene, however, where the duty is purely discretionary and its
performance dependent either upon the pleasure of the official, or
upon his interpretation of the law. Usually the applicant for a writ
of mandamus must show that he has no other adequate legal remedy, and
that he has a clear legal right to have the action in question
performed by the officer.

570. THE WRIT OR BILL OF INJUNCTION.--This writ may be of several
distinct types. It may take the form of a mandatory writ, ordering
some person or corporation to maintain a _status quo_ by performing
certain acts. For example, striking railway employees may be ordered
to continue to perform their regular and customary duties while
remaining in the service of their employer.

The injunction may take the form of a temporary restraining order
forbidding a party to alter the existing condition of things in
question until the merits of the case have been decided. This is often
used in labor disputes.

Sometimes the writ is in the form of a permanent injunction ordering a
party not to perform some act, the results of which cannot be remedied
by any proceeding in law. This, too, has often been used in labor
disputes.

571. JUDICIAL INTERPRETATION OF THE STATUTES.--The crowning feature of
the American judiciary is its power to pass upon the constitutionality
of state and Federal laws. The Constitution does not give to the
courts the power to declare state or Federal statutes invalid on the
ground that they conflict with the Federal Constitution, but in the
famous case of Marbury _v._ Madison in 1803, Chief Justice Marshall
demonstrated that under the Constitution the Supreme Court must
possess the power of declaring statutes null and void when they
conflict with the fundamental law of the land. In deciding against the
validity of a law, the court does not officially annul it, but merely
refuses to enforce the statute in the particular case before the
court. Thereupon, the executive officials who might be charged with
the administration of that particular law, neglect to enforce it.

572. GENERAL POLICY OF THE FEDERAL COURTS.--The Federal courts have
consistently refused to decide abstract questions not presented in the
form of a concrete case between parties to an actual suit. The Supreme
Court, for example, will take no notice of a statute until the
question of its constitutionality arises in the form of a concrete
case.

The Federal courts have consistently refused to interfere in purely
political questions, the decision of which rests with executive or
legislative authorities. For example, the court will not touch
questions of the existence of war or peace, or the admission of a new
state into the Union.

In reaching a decision, two forces are brought to bear upon the
courts. First, the character of previous decisions in similar or
analogous cases influences a decision. Second, important consideration
is given the demands of justice or equity in the particular case in
hand, regardless of precedent. Generally speaking judicial decisions
strike a course midway between these two extremes.


QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What does the Federal Constitution say concerning the structure of
the Federal courts?

2. What act forms the basis of our Federal judicial system?

3. How are Federal judges chosen, and what are their salaries?

4. Name some judicial agents other than judges.

5. What is the nature and function of the Supreme Court?

6. What is the nature and function of the Circuit Court of Appeals?
Over what cases has it jurisdiction?

7. What matters may be brought before the District Court?

8. What is the purpose of the Court of Claims?

9. Name some other special Federal courts.

10. What two classes of cases fall within the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts?

11. What is the nature and purpose of the writ of _habeas corpus_?

12. What is the purpose of the writ of mandamus?

13. What three forms may the writ or bill of injunction take?

14. What is the crowning feature of the American judicial system?

15. Outline the general policy of the Federal courts.

16. What two forces help determine a decision?


REQUIRED READINGS

1. Beard, _American Government and Politics_, chapter xv.

2. Guitteau, _Government and Politics in the United States_, chapter
xxviii.

3. Munro, _The Government of the United States_, chapter xxiv.

4. Reed, _Form and Functions of American Government_, chapter xxiii.


QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Into what two branches may law be divided? (Munro, page 355.)

2. What is equity? (Munro, page 351.)

3. What are the judicial functions of the Attorney-General of the
United States? (Beard, page 300.)

4. What different grades of law are administered in the Federal
courts? (Guitteau, page 338.)

5. Discuss the part played by partisan politics in judicial decisions.
(Beard, pages 310-312.)

6. What classes of people are exempted from jury service? (Munro, page
354.)

7. Distinguish between the original and the appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court. (Guitteau, pages 334-335.)

8. How are cases presented to the Supreme Court? (Beard, page 296.)

9. What is the significance of the Marbury v. Madison case? (Reed,
page 284.)

10. Name some other historical decisions which have been handed down
by the Supreme Court. (Guitteau, pages 339-340.)


TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Make a study of the Federal judicial district in which you live,
with respect to territory embraced in the district, names and powers
of Federal judicial agents, etc.

2. If possible, visit a near-by Federal court and observe the conduct
of a trial.


II

3. The American doctrine of judicial supremacy. (Haines, _The American
Doctrine of Judicial Supremacy_.)

4. Many of them had meddled so little with politics as never even to
have cast a vote; but having been educated in the belief that their
allegiance was due to their State, they did not hesitate to act as
honor and patriotism seemed to demand.

They were compelled to choose whether they would aid in subjugating
their State, or in defending it against invasion; for it was already
evident that coercion would be used by the General Government, and
that war was inevitable.

In reply to the accusation of perjury in breaking their oath of
allegiance, since brought against the officers of the Army and
Navy who resigned their commissions to render aid to the South, it
need only be stated that, in their belief, the resignation of their
commissions absolved them from any special obligation.

They then occupied the same position towards the Government as other
classes of citizens. But this charge was never brought against them
till the war was ended.

The resignation of their commissions was accepted when their
purpose was well known.

As to the charge of ingratitude, they reply, their respective States had
contributed their full share towards the expenses of the General
Government, acting as their disbursing agent; and when these States
withdrew from the Union, their citizens belonging to the two branches
of the public service did not, and do not, consider themselves
amenable to this charge for abandoning their official positions to
cast their lot with their kindred and friends.

But yielding as they did to necessity, it was nevertheless a painful
act to separate themselves from companions with whom they had been
long and intimately associated, and from the flag under which they
had been proud to serve.

During the brief interval which elapsed between the act of secession
and the admission of the State into the Confederacy, the Virginia
Army and Navy were organized; and all of the naval officers who had
tendered their services received commissions in the Virginia, and
afterward in the Confederate Navy; but as there were very few vessels
in commission, the greater portion of these officers were ordered
to shore batteries.

My first experience was at Fort Powhatan, an earthwork situated on
James River a short distance below City Point, and carrying six or
eight guns mounted on ships' carriages, which had been transported
from the Norfolk Navy-yard.

"Grim visaged war" had not shown his "wrinkled front" in those
fair portions of the land; and our time was chiefly spent in
drilling the volunteers at the big guns, and visiting the hospitable
families in the neighborhood; but all of us were soon to be transferred
to more active scenes.

The young gentlemen-privates of the gallant volunteer company, who so
daintily handled the side and train-tackles of the 42-pounders in
the battery, considered themselves fortunate, not long afterwards,
if they obtained full rations of lean beef, or "Nassau" pork, and
"hard tack;" and bore the brunt of many a severely contested battle
as part of Stonewall Jackson's "foot cavalry."

But at this period there were only a few so called croakers who at all
realized the magnitude of the struggle about to ensue.

The camps resounded with song and merriment; and many of the young
warriors were attended, like the knights-errant of old, by a
faithful squire, who polished the boots, cleaned the musket, and
performed other menial service for his "young master."

My own "fidus Achates," was old "Uncle Billy," whose occupation was
gone by the stoppage of a tobacco factory in Richmond, where he had
been used to take a prominent part in the peculiar songs of the
"profession."

He would sometimes give us a specimen of his vocal powers, and would
nearly bring the house down, literally and metaphorically, while
executing the mysteries of a "Virginny breakdown" in thick soled
brogans sixteen inches long.

But to return from this digression, it was believed by many persons
that a large party at the North would oppose the prosecution of
a war of invasion.

States may charter and regulate state banks, however, and may also
authorize a state bank to issue notes for circulation.

No state may make or enforce any law which abridges the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States. No state shall pass any
bill of attainder, by which is meant a legislative act which inflicts
punishment upon some person without ordinary judicial trial. Nor may
any state pass an _ex post facto_ law, that is to say, a law which
imposes punishment for an act which was not legally punishable at the
time when it was committed. Lastly, no state may deprive any citizen
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.

574. POWERS OF STATE GOVERNMENTS.--Federal law is the highest law of
the land, and no state constitution, state statute, or local law or
ordinance, may contravene it. But beyond this restriction, the
authority of the state is supreme. Just as state government must defer
to Federal authority, so local government is subservient to state
authority. Just as the Federal Supreme Court may declare
unconstitutional any executive or legislative act, either of the
National, state, or local authorities, so the Supreme Court of any
state may declare null and void the acts of state or local authorities
which conflict with its constitution. Though they are limited by the
Federal Constitution in matters which are preeminently national, the
states reserve to themselves a vast body of authority. Almost all of
the ordinary activities of life are controlled by state or local
governments, rather than by the Federal government.

575. CLASSIFICATION OF STATE CONSTITUTIONS: ACCORDING TO AGE.--Each
of the forty-eight states in the Union has a written constitution. To
bring out the fundamental similarities and differences among the
various state constitutions, these documents may be classified in
two ways, first as to age, and second, in the light of democratic
development.

If state constitutions are classified on the basis of age, it will be
noted that the constitutions of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode
Island, and other New England states show signs of having been
strongly influenced by colonial precedents. Next come constitutions
which in form and general content stand midway between the earlier New
England constitutions and those of more recent years. The
constitutions of New York (1894), Pennsylvania (1873), Indiana (1851),
Wisconsin (1848), Kentucky (1891), Minnesota (1857), and Iowa (1857),
are examples. D." "There are breakers on the port-bow, Mr. D." And
at last "There is a rock right ahead, Mr. D;" at which last remark, D.,
losing all patience, exclaimed, "G----d A----y, man, there isn't a
rock as big as my hat in the whole d----d State of North Carolina." A
too sweeping assertion, but quite true as applied to the coast. We
passed safely over the bar; and steaming up the river, anchored
off Smithville a little before midnight of the 29th of December,
1862.

Between 1800 and 1860 the growing
tendency toward democratic control resulted in the formation of state
constitutions which were more and more liberal. During this period
fear of the masses was superseded by distrust of the executive and an
unbounded faith in the people acting in their collective capacity. The
suffrage was extended, the governor and often state judges came to be
elected by direct vote, and the power of the state legislature was
enlarged.

After 1860 there was a reverse movement. This was due partly to a
growing faith in the executive, and partly to a reaction against the
abuse of power by state legislatures. Particularly the more recent
state constitutions have limited the power of the state legislature,
increased the power of the executive, provided for the centralization
of the state administration, and shortened the ballot. The present
tendency among state constitutions is to continue in the direction of
the above-mentioned reforms.


A. THE PARTS OF A STATE CONSTITUTION

577. THE BILL OF RIGHTS.--A vital part of a state constitution is the
bill of rights, roughly corresponding to the first ten amendments to
the Federal Constitution. Surrounded on all other sides by dangerous
coral reefs, which extend for many miles into deep water, a vessel
of heavy draft can approach from the south within a cable's length
of the shore. A light of the first class at the west end of the group
composing the "Bermudas," is visible for many miles in clear weather.
It may as well be mentioned here, that the blockade-runners rarely
approached _any_ head land during daylight; "preferring darkness
rather than light."These include the right of free speech; the
right to jury trial; the free exercise of religious worship; the right
peaceably to assemble and petition the government for redress of
grievances; the privilege of the writ of _habeas corpus_ except in
case of rebellion, invasion, or public danger; the prohibition of
excessive bail, and cruel and unusual punishments; and compensation
for private property when taken for public use.

578. THE FRAMEWORK OF GOVERNMENT.--A second part of a typical state
constitution deals with the distribution of powers, the limitations
upon state officials and other elements in the framework of
government. Especially in the more recent constitutions is the form of
state government outlined in considerable detail. In addition to
providing a system of checks and balances by separating the executive,
legislative, and judicial powers of state government, this part of the
constitution defines and limits the suffrage, provides for the
organization of the state legislature, and prescribes the limitations
under which the legislature must operate. The half starved and ill clad
army of Northern Virginia was in the trenches around Petersburg,
and the now contracting area of country available for supplies,
had been so thoroughly drained, that it became a vital question how
to provision the troops.This part of the constitution likewise creates the state judicial
system, though the regulation of details with regard to jurisdiction,
procedure, and appeals is generally left to the discretion of the
state legislature.

579. STATE FINANCES.--A third division of a typical state constitution
places a number of limitations upon the financial powers of the state
legislature. These provisions are often detailed and complicated and
hence are difficult to summarize. Our supply of coal being limited,
the course was shaped for Nassau as the nearer port, where we arrived
without accident. A day or two after our arrival the news came
of the fall of Fort Fisher.

Several narrow escapes, besides our own, were made.CONTROL OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS.--The more recent state
constitutions provide in considerable detail for the regulation of
economic interests within the state. The activities of industrial
organizations are often narrowly restricted. In many states the
constitution provides for a corporation commission with large powers
in the regulation of rates and charges, as well as general supervision
of corporate business. Many recent constitutions specify the
conditions under which women and children may be employed in
industrial establishments.

581. PROVISION FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE.--An increasingly important
part of the state constitution deals with the general welfare. 
Practically, however, they were equi-distant because blockade-runners
bound from either port, in order to evade the cruisers lying in
wait off Abaco, were compelled to give that head-land a wide berth,
by keeping well to the eastward of it.The
same document sets aside certain revenues for educational purposes.
The safeguarding of the public health, and detailed provision for the
creation and maintenance of public institutions for the dependent,
defective, and delinquent classes, are other concerns of this part of
the state constitution.

