Burle was the first to attack; he wanted to test Laguitte's strength and
ascertain what he had to expect. For the last ten days the encounter had
seemed to him a ghastly nightmare which he could not fathom. At times a
hideous suspicion assailed him, but he put it aside with terror, for it
meant death, and he refused to believe that a friend could play him such
a trick, even to set things right. Besides, Laguitte's leg reasssured
him; he would prick the major on the shoulder, and then all would be
over.

During well-nigh a couple of minutes the swords clashed, and then the
captain lunged, but the major, recovering his old suppleness of wrist,
parried in a masterly style, and if he had returned the attack Burle
would have been pierced through. The captain now fell back; he was
livid, for he felt that he was at the mercy of the man who had just
spared him. At last he understood that this was an execution.

Laguitte, squarely poised on his infirm legs and seemingly turned to
stone, stood waiting. The two men looked at each other fixedly. In
Burle's blurred eyes there arose a supplication--a prayer for pardon.
He knew why he was going to die, and like a child he promised not to
transgress again. But the major's eyes remained implacable; honor had
spoken, and he silenced his emotion and his pity.

"Let it end," he muttered between his teeth.

Then it was he who attacked. Like a flash of lightning his sword flamed,
flying from right to left, and then with a resistless thrust it pierced
the breast of the captain, who fell like a log without even a groan.

Laguitte had released his hold upon his sword and stood gazing at that
poor old rascal Burle, who was stretched upon his back with his fat
stomach bulging out.

"Oh, my God! My God!" repeated the major furiously and despairingly, and
then he began to swear.

They led him away, and, both his legs failing him, he had to be
supported on either side, for he could not even use his stick.

Two months later the ex-major was crawling slowly along in the sunlight
down a lonely street of Vauchamp, when he again found himself face to
face with Mme Burle and little Charles. They were both in deep mourning.
He tried to avoid them, but he now only walked with difficulty, and they
advanced straight upon him without hurrying or slackening their steps.
Charles still had the same gentle, girlish, frightened face, and Mme
Burle retained her stern, rigid demeanor, looking even harsher than
ever.

As Laguitte shrank into the corner of a doorway to leave the whole
street to them, she abruptly stopped in front of him and stretched out
her hand. He hesitated and then took it and pressed it, but he trembled
so violently that he made the old lady's arm shake. They exchanged
glances in silence.

"Charles," said the boy's grandmother at last, "shake hands with the
major." The boy obeyed without understanding. The major, who was very
pale, barely ventured to touch the child's frail fingers; then, feeling
that he ought to speak, he stammered out: "You still intend to send him
to Saint-Cyr?"

"Of course, when he is old enough," answered Mme Burle.

But during the following week Charles was carried off by typhoid fever.
One evening his grandmother had again read him the story of the Vengeur
to make him bold, and in the night he had become delirious. The poor
little fellow died of fright.


THE DEATH OF OLIVIER BECAILLE


CHAPTER I

MY PASSING


It was on a Saturday, at six in the morning, that I died after a three
days' illness. My wife was searching a trunk for some linen, and when
she rose and turned she saw me rigid, with open eyes and silent pulses.
She ran to me, fancying that I had fainted, touched my hands and bent
over me. Then she suddenly grew alarmed, burst into tears and stammered:

"My God, my God! He is dead!"

I heard everything, but the sounds seemed to come from a great distance.
My left eye still detected a faint glimmer, a whitish light in which all
objects melted, but my right eye was quite bereft of sight. It was the
coma of my whole being, as if a thunderbolt had struck me. My will was
annihilated; not a fiber of flesh obeyed my bidding. And yet amid the
impotency of my inert limbs my thoughts subsisted, sluggish and lazy,
still perfectly clear.

My poor Marguerite was crying; she had dropped on her knees beside the
bed, repeating in heart-rending tones:

"He is dead! My God, he is dead!"

Was this strange state of torpor, this immobility of the flesh, really
death, although the functions of the intellect were not arrested? Was
my soul only lingering for a brief space before it soared away forever?
From my childhood upward I had been subject to hysterical attacks,
and twice in early youth I had nearly succumbed to nervous fevers. By
degrees all those who surrounded me had got accustomed to consider me an
invalid and to see me sickly. So much so that I myself had forbidden my
wife to call in a doctor when I had taken to my bed on the day of our
arrival at the cheap lodginghouse of the Rue Dauphine in Paris. A little
rest would soon set me right again; it was only the fatigue of the
journey which had caused my intolerable weariness. And yet I was
conscious of having felt singularly uneasy. We had left our province
somewhat abruptly; we were very poor and had barely enough money to
support ourselves till I drew my first month's salary in the office
where I had obtained a situation. And now a sudden seizure was carrying
me off!

Was it really death? I had pictured to myself a darker night, a deeper
silence. As a little child I had already felt afraid to die. Being weak
and compassionately petted by everyone, I had concluded that I had not
long to live, that I should soon be buried, and the thought of the cold
earth filled me with a dread I could not master--a dread which haunted
me day and night. As I grew older the same terror pursued me. Sometimes,
after long hours spent in reasoning with myself, I thought that I had
conquered my fear. I reflected, "After all, what does it matter? One
dies and all is over. It is the common fate; nothing could be better or
easier."

I then prided myself on being able to look death boldly in the face, but
suddenly a shiver froze my blood, and my dizzy anguish returned, as if
a giant hand had swung me over a dark abyss. It was some vision of the
earth returning and setting reason at naught. How often at night did I
start up in bed, not knowing what cold breath had swept over my slumbers
but clasping my despairing hands and moaning, "Must I die?" In those
moments an icy horror would stop my pulses while an appalling vision of
dissolution rose before me. It was with difficulty that I could get to
sleep again. Indeed, sleep alarmed me; it so closely resembled death.
If I closed my eyes they might never open again--I might slumber on
forever.

I cannot tell if others have endured the same torture; I only know that
my own life was made a torment by it. Death ever rose between me and
all I loved; I can remember how the thought of it poisoned the happiest
moments I spent with Marguerite. During the first months of our married
life, when she lay sleeping by my side and I dreamed of a fair future
for her and with her, the foreboding of some fatal separation dashed my
hopes aside and embittered my delights. Perhaps we should be parted on
the morrow--nay, perhaps in an hour's time. Then utter discouragement
assailed me; I wondered what the bliss of being united availed me if it
were to end in so cruel a disruption.

My morbid imagination reveled in scenes of mourning. I speculated as to
who would be the first to depart, Marguerite or I. Either alternative
caused me harrowing grief, and tears rose to my eyes at the thought of
our shattered lives. At the happiest periods of my existence I often
became a prey to grim dejection such as nobody could understand but
which was caused by the thought of impending nihility. When I was most
successful I was to general wonder most depressed. The fatal question,
"What avails it?" rang like a knell in my ears. But the sharpest sting
of this torment was that it came with a secret sense of shame, which
rendered me unable to confide my thoughts to another. Husband and wife
lying side by side in the darkened room may quiver with the same shudder
and yet remain mute, for people do not mention death any more than they
pronounce certain obscene words. Fear makes it nameless.

I was musing thus while my dear Marguerite knelt sobbing at my feet.
It grieved me sorely to be unable to comfort her by telling her that I
suffered no pain. If death were merely the annihilation of the flesh it
had been foolish of me to harbor so much dread. I experienced a selfish
kind of restfulness in which all my cares were forgotten. My memory had
become extraordinarily vivid. My whole life passed before me rapidly
like a play in which I no longer acted a part; it was a curious and
enjoyable sensation--I seemed to hear a far-off voice relating my own
history.

I saw in particular a certain spot in the country near Guerande, on the
way to Piriac. The road turns sharply, and some scattered pine trees
carelessly dot a rocky slope. When I was seven years old I used to pass
through those pines with my father as far as a crumbling old house,
where Marguerite's parents gave me pancakes. They were salt gatherers
and earned a scanty livelihood by working the adjacent salt marshes.
Then I remembered the school at Nantes, where I had grown up, leading
a monotonous life within its ancient walls and yearning for the broad
horizon of Guerande and the salt marshes stretching to the limitless sea
widening under the sky.

Next came a blank--my father was dead. I entered the hospital as clerk
to the managing board and led a dreary life with one solitary diversion:
my Sunday visits to the old house on Piriac road. The saltworks were
doing badly; poverty reigned in the land, and Marguerite's parents were
nearly penniless. Marguerite, when merely a child, had been fond of me
because I trundled her about in a wheelbarrow, but on the morning when I
asked her in marriage she shrank from me with a frightened gesture, and
I realized that she thought me hideous. Her parents, however, consented
at once; they looked upon my offer as a godsend, and the daughter
submissively acquiesced. When she became accustomed to the idea of
marrying me she did not seem to dislike it so much. On our wedding day
at Guerande the rain fell in torrents, and when we got home my bride
had to take off her dress, which was soaked through, and sit in her
petticoats.

That was all the youth I ever had. We did not remain long in our
province. One day I found my wife in tears. She was miserable; life was
so dull; she wanted to get away. Six months later I had saved a little
money by taking in extra work after office hours, and through the
influence of a friend of my father's I obtained a petty appointment in
Paris. I started off to settle there with the dear little woman so
that she might cry no more. During the night, which we spent in the
third-class railway carriage, the seats being very hard, I took her in
my arms in order that she might sleep.

That was the past, and now I had just died on the narrow couch of a
Paris lodginghouse, and my wife was crouching on the floor, crying
bitterly. The white light before my left eye was growing dim, but I
remembered the room perfectly. On the left there was a chest of drawers,
on the right a mantelpiece surmounted by a damaged clock without a
pendulum, the hands of which marked ten minutes past ten. The window
overlooked the Rue Dauphine, a long, dark street. All Paris seemed to
pass below, and the noise was so great that the window shook.

We knew nobody in the city; we had hurried our departure, but I was not
expected at the office till the following Monday. Since I had taken to
my bed I had wondered at my imprisonment in this narrow room into which
we had tumbled after a railway journey of fifteen hours, followed by a
hurried, confusing transit through the noisy streets. My wife had nursed
me with smiling tenderness, but I knew that she was anxious. She would
walk to the window, glance out and return to the bedside, looking very
pale and startled by the sight of the busy thoroughfare, the aspect
of the vast city of which she did not know a single stone and which
deafened her with its continuous roar. What would happen to her if I
never woke up again--alone, friendless and unknowing as she was?

Marguerite had caught hold of one of my hands which lay passive on the
coverlet, and, covering it with kisses, she repeated wildly: "Olivier,
answer me. Oh, my God, he is dead, dead!"

So death was not complete annihilation. I could hear and think. I had
been uselessly alarmed all those years. I had not dropped into utter
vacancy as I had anticipated. I could not picture the disappearance
of my being, the suppression of all that I had been, without the
possibility of renewed existence. I had been wont to shudder whenever in
any book or newspaper I came across a date of a hundred years hence. A
date at which I should no longer be alive, a future which I should never
see, filled me with unspeakable uneasiness. Was I not the whole world,
and would not the universe crumble away when I was no more?

To dream of life had been a cherished vision, but this could not
possibly be death. I should assuredly awake presently. Yes, in a few
moments I would lean over, take Marguerite in my arms and dry her tears.
I would rest a little while longer before going to my office, and then
a new life would begin, brighter than the last. However, I did not feel
impatient; the commotion had been too strong. It was wrong of Marguerite
to give way like that when I had not even the strength to turn my head
on the pillow and smile at her. The next time that she moaned out,
"He is dead! Dead!" I would embrace her and murmur softly so as not to
startle her: "No, my darling, I was only asleep. You see, I am alive,
and I love you."


CHAPTER II

FUNERAL PREPARATIONS


Marguerite's cries had attracted attention, for all at once the door
was opened and a voice exclaimed: "What is the matter, neighbor? Is he
worse?"

I recognized the voice; it was that of an elderly woman, Mme Gabin, who
occupied a room on the same floor. She had been most obliging since our
arrival and had evidently become interested in our concerns. On her own
side she had lost no time in telling us her history. A stern landlord
had sold her furniture during the previous winter to pay himself his
rent, and since then she had resided at the lodginghouse in the Rue
Dauphine with her daughter Dede, a child of ten. They both cut and
pinked lamp shades, and between them they earned at the utmost only two
francs a day.

"Heavens! Is it all over?" cried Mme Gabin, looking at me.

I realized that she was drawing nearer. She examined me, touched me and,
turning to Marguerite, murmured compassionately: "Poor girl! Poor girl!"

My wife, wearied out, was sobbing like a child. Mme Gabin lifted her,
placed her in a dilapidated armchair near the fireplace and proceeded to
comfort her.

"Indeed, you'll do yourself harm if you go on like this, my dear. It's
no reason because your husband is gone that you should kill yourself
with weeping. Sure enough, when I lost Gabin I was just like you. I
remained three days without swallowing a morsel of food. But that didn't
help me--on the contrary, it pulled me down.