
  O day, which did enwomb that happy hour,
  Thou art blest in the years, divinest day!
  O Genius of that hour which dost uphold
  Thy coronal of glory like a God,
  Amid thy melancholy mates far-seen,
  Who walk before thee, and whose eyes are dim
  With gazing on the light and depth of thine
  Thy name is ever worshipp'd among hours!
  Had I died then, I had not seem'd to die
  For bliss stood round me like the lights of heaven,
  That cannot fade, they are so burning bright.
  Had I died then, I had not known the death;
  Planting my feet against this mound of time
  I had thrown me on the vast, and from this impulse
  Continuing and gathering ever, ever,
  Agglomerated swiftness, I had lived
  That intense moment thro' eternity.
  Oh, had the Power from whose right hand the light
  Of Life issueth, and from whose left hand floweth
  The shadow of Death, perennial effluences,
  Whereof to all that draw the wholesome air,
  Somewhile the one must overflow the other;
  Then had he stemm'd my day with night and driven
  My current to the fountain whence it sprang--
  Even his own abiding excellence--
  On me, methinks, that shock of gloom had fall'n
  Unfelt, and like the sun I gazed upon,
  Which, lapt in seeming dissolution,
  And dipping his head low beneath the verge,
  Yet bearing round about him his own day,
  In confidence of unabated strength,
  Steppeth from heaven to heaven, from light to light,
  And holding his undimmed forehead far
  Into a clearer zenith, pure of cloud;
  So bearing on thro' Being limitless
  The triumph of this foretaste, I had merged
  Glory in glory, without sense of change.

  We trod the shadow of the downward hill;
  We pass'd from light to dark. On the other side
  Is scooped a cavern and a mountain-hall,
  Which none have fathom'd. If you go far in
  (The country people rumour) you may hear
  The moaning of the woman and the child,
  Shut in the secret chambers of the rock.
  I too have heard a sound--perchance of streams
  Running far-off within its inmost halls,
  The home of darkness, but the cavern mouth,
  Half overtrailed with a wanton weed
  Gives birth to a brawling stream, that stepping lightly
  Adown a natural stair of tangled roots,
  Is presently received in a sweet grove
  Of eglantine, a place of burial
  Far lovelier than its cradle; for unseen
  But taken with the sweetness of the place,
  It giveth out a constant melody
  That drowns the nearer echoes. Lower down
  Spreads out a little lake, that, flooding, makes
  Cushions of yellow sand; and from the woods
  That belt it rise three dark tall cypresses;
  Three cypresses, symbols of mortal woe,
  That men plant over graves.

                   Hither we came,
  And sitting down upon the golden moss
  Held converse sweet and low--low converse sweet,
  In which our voices bore least part. The wind
  Told a love-tale beside us, how he woo'd
  The waters, and the crisp'd waters lisp'd
  The kisses of the wind, that, sick with love,
  Fainted at intervals, and grew again
  To utterance of passion. Ye cannot shape
  Fancy so fair as is this memory.
  Methought all excellence that ever was
  Had drawn herself from many thousand years,
  And all the separate Edens of this earth,
  To centre in this place and time. I listen'd,
  And her words stole with most prevailing sweetness
  Into my heart, as thronged fancies come,
  All unawares, into the poet's brain;
  Or as the dew-drops on the petal hung,
  When summer winds break their soft sleep with sighs,
  Creep down into the bottom of the flower.
  Her words were like a coronal of wild blooms
  Strung in the very negligence of Art,
  Or in the art of Nature, where each rose
  Doth faint upon the bosom of the other,
  Flooding its angry cheek with odorous tears.
  So each with each inwoven lived with each,
  And were in union more than double-sweet.
  What marvel my Camilla told me all?
  It was so happy an hour, so sweet a place,
  And I was as the brother of her blood,
  And by that name was wont to live in her speech,
  Dear name! which had too much of nearness in it
  And heralded the distance of this time.
  At first her voice was very sweet and low,
  As tho' she were afeard of utterance;
  But in the onward current of her speech,
  (As echoes of the hollow-banked brooks
  Are fashioned by the channel which they keep)
  His words did of their meaning borrow sound,
  Her cheek did catch the colour of her words,
  I heard and trembled, yet I could but hear;
  My heart paused,--my raised eyelids would not fall,
  But still I kept my eyes upon the sky.
  I seem'd the only part of Time stood still,
  And saw the motion of all other things;
  While her words, syllable by syllable,
  Like water, drop by drop, upon my ear
  Fell, and I wish'd, yet wish'd her not to speak,
  But she spoke on, for I did name no wish.
  What marvel my Camilla told me all
  Her maiden dignities of Hope and Love,
  'Perchance' she said 'return'd.' Even then the stars
  Did tremble in their stations as I gazed;
  But she spake on, for I did name no wish,
  No wish--no hope. Hope was not wholly dead,
  But breathing hard at the approach of Death,
  Updrawn in expectation of her change--
  Camilla, my Camilla, who was mine
  No longer in the dearest use of mine--
  The written secrets of her inmost soul
  Lay like an open scroll before my view,
  And my eyes read, they read aright, her heart
  Was Lionel's: it seem'd as tho' a link
  Of some light chain within my inmost frame
  Was riven in twain: that life I heeded not
  Flow'd from me, and the darkness of the grave,
  The darkness of the grave and utter night,
  Did swallow up my vision: at her feet,
  Even the feet of her I loved, I fell,
  Smit with exceeding sorrow unto death.

