"Mean kindly!  Oh!  Dear Mrs Franklin!  The drink has washed out all
kindness: there's ruin hanging over that house, not as I wishes it to
them, but it is so.  The children's been brought up to think of just
nothing but themselves; their eating and drinking, and dressing, and
playing: there's sipping in the parlour all day long; drinking in the
dining-room; swilling in the kitchen.  Our poor Jim's seen his betters
there living as if men, women, and children had nothing to do in this
world but to drown the thoughts of the next in drink and pleasure, and
he's learnt his lesson too well; but I trust the Lord 'll take the book
out of his hand, and teach him the better way again."

"I'm afraid what you say is too true," remarked Mrs Franklin, sadly;
"if our young people continue to be brought up in such self-indulgent
habits, we may well expect to hear God crying aloud by His judgments,
`Woe to the drunkards of England,' as He once cried, `Woe to the
drunkards of Ephraim.'"


CHAPTER EIGHT.

A DOUBLE PERIL.

"I'll tell you what it is, Mark, I _must_ have a stop put to this: my
patience is quite worn out.  Do you think I'm made of money?  Do you
think I can coin money as fast as you choose to spend it?  You'll ruin
me with your thoughtless, selfish extravagance, and break your mother's
heart and mine by your drunkenness and folly, that you will."

These words, uttered in a tone of passionate bitterness, were spoken by
Mr Rothwell to his son in the hall at "The Firs," as the young man was
urging his father to grant him a considerable sum to pay some pressing
debts.  At the same moment Mr John Randolph came out of the drawing-
room, and could not help overhearing what was being said.

Mr Rothwell turned fiercely upon him:

"What right have _you_, sir, to be intruding on my privacy?" he cried,
nettled at his rebuke having been overheard by a stranger.

"I am not conscious of being guilty of any intrusion," said the other
quietly.

"You _are_ intruding," cried Mark, glad to vent his exasperation at his
father's reproaches on somebody, and specially glad of an opportunity of
doing so on the music-master.

"You shall not need to make the complaint again then," said Mr
Randolph, calmly, "my lessons to your sisters will cease from to-day;"
and with a stiff bow he closed the door behind him.

Rather more than two years had elapsed since Jim Forbes' enlistment when
the scene just described took place.  Mark had been sinking deeper and
deeper in the mire; he was scarcely ever sober except when visiting the
Franklins, on which occasions he was always on his guard, though his
excited manner, and the eagerness with which he tossed down the few
glasses of wine to which he, evidently with difficulty, restricted
himself, made a most painful impression not only _on_ Mrs Franklin, but
also on her daughter.

Mary was now nineteen, and shone with the brightness which the gentle
light of holiness casts on every word and feature.  She was full of
innocent cheerfulness, and was the joy of all who knew her.  Mark loved
her as much as he could love anything that was not himself, and tried to
make himself acceptable to her.  Mary _hoped_ the best about him, but
that hope had begun to droop for some time past.  He had never yet
ventured to declare his affection to her; somehow or other he could not.
A little spark of nobleness still remained in him unquenched by the
drink, and it lighted him to see that to bind Mary to himself for life
would be to tie her to a living firebrand that would scorch and shrivel
up beauty, health and peace.  He dared not speak: before her unsullied
loveliness his drink-envenomed lips were closed: he could rattle on in
wild exuberance of spirits, but he could not yet venture to ask her to
be his.  And she?  She pitied him deeply, and her heart's affections
hovered over him; would they settle there?  If so, lost!  Lost!  All
peace would be lost: how great her peril!

Another visit from Mr Tankardew: the old man had been a frequent
caller, and was ever welcome.  That he cherished a fatherly love for
Mary was evident; indeed his heart seemed divided between herself and
the young musician, Mr John Randolph, who, though he had ceased to give
lessons at "The Firs," was most scrupulously punctual in his attendance
at "The Shrubbery."

It was a bright summer's morning as the old man sat in the drawing-room
where Mary and her mother were engaged in the mysteries of the needle.

"Let me hear your last piece, my child," he said; "John tells me that he
will soon have nothing more to teach you."

Mary sat down and played with loving grace, till the old man bowed his
head upon his hands and wept.

"`Home, sweet home!'" he murmured.  "Ay; you have played that lovely air
with variations as if you felt it: you know what a sweet home is, Mary;
I knew it once.  `Home, sweet home!'" he added again, with a sigh.

There was a pause: then he went on: "There are plenty of homes that
aren't sweet; homes with variations enough and to spare in them; but
they're variations of misery.  I hope you'll never have one of those
homes, my child."

Mary coloured deeply, and her mother's eyes filled with tears.  Mr
Tankardew looked earnestly at them both.

"No danger of any but sweet variations _here_," he said; "but all new
homes are not sweet homes--there's no sweetness that will last where the
barrel, the bottle, and the spirit-flask play a trio of discords:
they'll drown all the harmonies of harp and piano.  Promise me two
things, my child;" he added, abruptly.

"What are they?" asked Mary, timidly and tearfully.

"Just these: promise me to become a pledged abstainer; and promise me
that you'll never marry a man that loves the drink."

Poor Mary burst into tears, but her mother came to her aid, and said:

"I don't quite see what good Mary's signing the pledge will do.  She has
taken neither beer nor wine for some time past, so that she does all
that is needed in the way of example."

"No, she does not, madam, if you'll excuse my being so blunt.  She just
does not do what will make her example _tell_.  Power for good comes
through combination; the devil knows it well enough, and he gets
drunkards to band together in clubs; and worldly people band together in
clubs, and back one another up and concentrate their forces.  All who
see the curse and misery of the drink should sign, and not stand apart
as solitary abstainers; they won't do the same good; it is by uniting
together that the great work is done by God's blessing.  A body of
Christian abstainers united in the same work, and bound by the same
pledge, attract others, and give them something to lean on and cling to:
and that is one reason why we want children to combine in Bands of Hope.
Why, I've seen a man light a fire with a piece of glass, but how did he
do it?  Not by putting the fuel under one ray of the sun; not by
carrying it about from place to place in the sunshine; but by gathering,
with the help of the glass, all the little rays together into one hot
bright focus.  And so we want to gather together the power and influence
of total abstainers in Total Abstinence Societies and Bands of Hope, by
their union through the pledge as a common bond.  We want to set hearts
on fire with a holy love that shall make them burn to rescue poor slaves
of the drink from their misery and ruin.  Won't you help?  Can you hold
back?  Are not souls perishing by millions through the drink, and is any
sacrifice too dear to make, any cross too heavy to take up in such a
cause?"

The old man had risen, and was walking up and down the room with great
swinging strides.  Then he stopped abruptly and waited for an answer.

"I'm sure," said Mrs Franklin, "we would both sign if it could do any
real good."

"It _will_ do good, it _must_ do good: sign now;" he produced a pledge-
book: "no time like the present."

The signatures were made, and then Mr Tankardew, clasping his thin
hands together, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, offered a short
emphatic prayer that God would bless and strengthen these His servants,
and enable them by His grace to be a blessing to others as pledged
abstainers.  And then he turned again to Mary, and said:

"You have given me the one promise; will you give me the other?  Will
you promise me that you will never knowingly marry a man who loves the
drink?"

Mary buried her face in her hands.  A few moments, and no one spoke.

"Hear me, my child," cried the old man, again beginning to pace the room
with measured strides; "you are dear to me, very dear, for you're the
image of one lost to me years ago, long weary years ago.  I cannot bear
to see you offered as another victim on the altar of the Drink-Moloch:
he has had victims enough: too many, too many.  Do you wish to wither
into a premature grave?  Do you wish to see the light die out of your
mother's smile?  Then marry a drink-worshipper.  Do you wish to tremble
every time you hear the footstep of the man who has turned `sweet home'
into a shuddering prison? then marry a drink-worshipper.  Do you wish to
see little children hide the terror of their eyes in your lap and
tremble at the name of father?  Then marry a drink-worshipper.  Stay,
stay, I'm an old fool to break out in this way, and scare you out of
your wits;" for Mary and her mother were both sobbing bitterly: "forgive
me, but don't forget me; there, let us change the subject."

But Mary had checked her sobs, and, rising up calm and beautiful in her
tears, she laid her hand lovingly on the old man's arm, and said, gently
but firmly:

"Dear old friend, thank you for what you have said.  I promise you that
never will I knowingly marry one who loves intoxicating drinks."

"God bless you, my child.  You have taken a load off the old man's
heart, and off your mother's too, I know."

Would Mary keep her word?  She was soon to be put to the test.  Though
Mark hesitated to propose to Mary Franklin, his mother had no scruples
on the subject.  He had now come to man's estate, and she wished him to
marry; specially she wished him to marry Mrs Franklin's daughter, as
Mary would enjoy a nice little income when she came of age, and Mark's
prospects were cloudy enough as far as anything from his father was
concerned.  Besides, she hoped that marrying Mary would steady her son--
a favourite scheme with mothers of drunkards.  As for Mary's own peace
or happiness, she never gave them a thought.  The experiment would be
something like caging a tiger and a lamb together for the purpose of
subduing the tiger's ferocity; pleasant enough for the tiger, but simply
destruction to the lamb.  However, Mrs Rothwell pressed Mark to
propose, so he yielded after a faint resistance, and now watched for his
opportunity.

