  My young man is
consequently apparelled with ideas, while Mr. Huyshe's young man is
stiffened with facts; the latter teaches one nothing; from the
former one learns everything.  I need hardly say that this dress is
good, not because it is seventeenth century, but because it is
constructed on the true principles of costume, just as a square
lintel or pointed arch is good, not because one may be Greek and
the other Gothic, but because each of them is the best method of
spanning a certain-sized opening, or resisting a certain weight.
The fact, however, that this dress was generally worn in England
two centuries and a half ago shows at least this, that the right
laws of dress have been understood and realized in our country, and
so in our country may be realized and understood again.  As regards
the absolute beauty of this dress and its meaning, I should like to
say a few words more.  Mr. Wentworth Huyshe solemnly announces that
"he and those who think with him" cannot permit this question of
beauty to be imported into the question of dress; that he and those
who think with him take "practical views on the subject," and so
on.  Well, I will not enter here into a discussion as to how far
any one who does not take beauty and the value of beauty into
account can claim to be practical at all.  The word practical is
nearly always the last refuge of the uncivilized.  Of all misused
words it is the most evilly treated.  But what I want to point out
is that beauty is essentially organic; that is, it comes, not from
without, but from within, not from any added prettiness, but from
the perfection of its own being; and that consequently, as the body
is beautiful, so all apparel that rightly clothes it must be
beautiful also in its construction and in its lines.

I have no more desire to define ugliness than I have daring to
define beauty; but still I would like to remind those who mock at
beauty as being an unpractical thing of this fact, that an ugly
thing is merely a thing that is badly made, or a thing that does
not serve it purpose; that ugliness is want of fitness; that
ugliness is failure; that ugliness is uselessness, such as ornament
in the wrong place, while beauty, as some one finely said, is the
purgation of all superfluities.  There is a divine economy about
beauty; it gives us just what is needful and no more, whereas
ugliness is always extravagant; ugliness is a spendthrift and
wastes its material; in fine, ugliness--and I would commend this
remark to Mr. Wentworth Huyshe--ugliness, as much in costume as in
anything else, is always the sign that somebody has been
unpractical.  So the costume of the future in England, if it is
founded on the true laws of freedom, comfort, and adaptability to
circumstances, cannot fail to be most beautiful also, because
beauty is the sign always of the rightness of principles, the
mystical seal that is set upon what is perfect, and upon what is
perfect only.

As for your other correspondent, the first principle of dress that
all garments should be hung from the shoulders and not from the
waist seems to me to be generally approved of, although an "Old
Sailor" declares that no sailors or athletes ever suspend their
clothes from the shoulders, but always from the hips.  My own
recollection of the river and running ground at Oxford--those two
homes of Hellenism in our little Gothic town--is that the best
runners and rowers (and my own college turned out many) wore always
a tight jersey, with short drawers attached to it, the whole
costume being woven in one piece.  The evening was the presentation,
and Okuro wore a wig of white silk floss. Never had the audience
of a Japanese theater, a lively and breathtaking view loseres
game. Only a few murmured, and were surprised that the young
husband wanted to play the drama, which only months ago had occurred.
And many called him heartless and unfeeling, because he the death
of his young wife was not more serious than a drama. The final
act came, and the scene where the grandmother rescued from the cabin
door and creeps during the shipwreck, according to Ilse screams.

You groping forward . But instead, directed the grandmother playing
Okuro on jumps and ramps at the theater before, stretching the
arms into the audience, and instead of mourning over the drowning
time being, he exclaims: "Behold me from the horrors reborn
and become wise and cool, like snow on the evening Hirayama! Clapped
their hands, slaps the biggest applause, the god of misfortune,
the heart of the redeemed, the male is the happiness of a will,
if lucky no one has. Full of ideas, as the snow on the Hirayama
above the Lake Biwa in Evening seems, is the view of the accident,
when he directed us to, solemn and gigantic, the wisdom of the
accident and soars above all knowledge. I Mourning to the drowning
man, not, and ye shall also am not Mourning, which I favor the
largest of God enjoyed the favor of the accident, which is sacred
as the moment of happiness. "" Claps applause, cried again Okuro
And then came Kutsuma who, disguised as Ilse, now should be drowned
and no longer had to appear, and began to become mad friend
in his arms. The spectators saw nor how Kutsuma the Okuro the
white wig on his head tore, air to him and to his brain cool.
Because - with a single cry of horror rose up the whole theater
audience, for Okuros hair was pain before the game became as white
as the wool of the white wig. One was in the theater the other
and it was awesome before the soul of the lovers, here is larger
than the art of the actor had played. All in the theater crying, and
no one ever comes to the Lake Biwa and the snow on the evening
Hirayama admired forgets history the lovers to remember that the
accident was as white as snow. The moon, in the absence of heat
Drüben laughs over the river at night swimming in the mountain mist
mondigen. In the river, in the dark, because the bright sparkle
gently waves in garish circles. In the sky, large fire breaks
out - The moon, the laughs without heat, as one who killed the
love of long ago. Now he lives as a ghost still care. The love knows
the word "dying" hard night winds around the windows and
thick walls of the house. Forest Summit crouch down there in the
Badlands. In the hole of the night As one predator lurking
nostrils - thoughts of death. It is as if the ancient walls sway.
Käuzchen attracts a fuss with the shiver of the death came hours.
gellt His cry for help as one who bursts on the forehead. forest
leaves rattle and rain falls, And breastfeeding is once again
on the world, as if someone breaths you counts. to my page from
the deep cushions Speaks sweetheart in a dream. My dream has every
word spook me torn - The Love knows the word "die" hardly.
dying words, if the tear A tear speaks, if anguished crept out of
the eye, if it falls, suggests a hole in the world. If the tear
moves, it carries load, rolling hills with Did the heavy tear.
Tears live at the bitter pleasure; highlight words tears often
come to light. tears only a grace you give dying words, if the
tear is talking about.

Always Lust Lust itself depends on all things can see.

Say not that they blindly off. Say not that they go dark. Houses,
trees, paths, wind, chairs, tables, beds and lockers, all things
are looking. All the things you can think. Not only foreheads spirit
give you, all things ghost steer. Small gray midges train,
Spinnwebfaden powerful in flight, each blade of grass thinks enough.
And love is all things. As the birds with Gesing Love all over the
world in the rings. One way to another short, his every desire to
catch. A growing appetite for pleasure to hang.
And so, were our national attire delightful in
colour, and in construction simple and sincere; were dress the
expression of the loveliness that it shields and of the swiftness
and motion that it does not impede; did its lines break from the
shoulder instead of bulging from the waist; did the inverted
wineglass cease to be the ideal of form; were these things brought
about, as brought about they will be, then would painting be no
longer an artificial reaction against the ugliness of life, but
become, as it should be, the natural expression of life's beauty.
Nor would painting merely, but all the other arts also, be the
gainers by a change such as that which I propose; the gainers, I
mean, through the increased atmosphere of Beauty by which the
artists would be surrounded and in which they would grow up.  For
Art is not to be taught in Academies.  It is what one looks at, not
what one listens to, that makes the artist.  The real schools
should be the streets.  There is not, for instance, a single
delicate line, or delightful proportion, in the dress of the
Greeks, which is not echoed exquisitely in their architecture.  A
nation arrayed in stove-pipe hats and dress-improvers might have
built the Pantechnichon possibly, but the Parthenon never.  And
finally, there is this to be said:  Art, it is true, can never have
any other claim but her own perfection, and it may be that the
artist, desiring merely to contemplate and to create, is wise in
not busying himself about change in others:  yet wisdom is not
always the best; there are times when she sinks to the level of
common-sense; and from the passionate folly of those--and there are
many--who desire that Beauty shall be confined no longer to the
bric-a-brac of the collector and the dust of the museum, but shall
be, as it should be, the natural and national inheritance of all,--
from this noble unwisdom, I say, who knows what new loveliness
shall be given to life, and, under these more exquisite conditions,
what perfect artist born?  Le milieu se renouvelant, l'art se
renouvelle.


THE AMERICAN INVASION


A terrible danger is hanging over the Americans in London.  Their
future and their reputation this season depend entirely on the
success of Buffalo Bill and Mrs. Brown-Potter.  The former is
certain to draw; for English people are far more interested in
American barbarism than they are in American civilization.  When
they sight Sandy Hook they look to their rifles and ammunition;
and, after dining once at Delmonico's, start off for Colorado or
California, for Montana or the Yellow Stone Park.  Rocky Mountains
charm them more than riotous millionaires; they have been known to
prefer buffaloes to Boston.  Why should they not?  The cities of
America are inexpressibly tedious.  The Bostonians take their
learning too sadly; culture with them is an accomplishment rather
than an atmosphere; their "Hub," as they call it, is the paradise
of prigs.  Chicago is a sort of monster-shop, full of bustle and
bores.  Political life at Washington is like political life in a
suburban vestry.  Baltimore is amusing for a week, but Philadelphia
is dreadfully provincial; and though one can dine in New York one
could not dwell there.  Better the Far West with its grizzly bears
and its untamed cowboys, its free open-air life and its free open-
air manners, its boundless prairie and its boundless mendacity!
This is what Buffalo Bill is going to bring to London; and we have
no doubt that London will fully appreciate his show.

But then she was very serious. "No," she said and shook his head.
"You can no longer come into our house. I have the fire who are
bad, as long as you were, and I have my father to many Tonvasen
burnt. "" You do not have a reason that you do not say, "said Oizo.
»The Tonvasen I will pay your father all the while I paint you.
Speech and say your reason why I no longer come into your house
is?" Graswürzeleins cheeks blushed, and she soon felt her hands on
the cheeks, around the Wangenröte with the hands to hide.
Oizo was amazed how beautiful the girl was, and heard her
voice whimpered as rhythmically and sang, while she spoke as if the
reed from the previous year, again by him singers. "Dost thou not
take a boat ride with me , Graswürzelein? It has a warm air over
the lake, and the evenings are long and bright I think the wild
geese have come back again soon. "" Yes, the gods, that's
true, "sighed the little girl. "The wild geese, I would
like you show on the lake, master." And flashed a smile in her eyes,
as the wet black Seekiesel twinkle. "That is the air of the wild
goose tonight. You've never come out of the lake view,
master? "No, I saw the wild geese fly only from land, over hills
and tree." "Then I want it from you from the lake show," the girl
nodded eagerly, and her pale face and her trembling hands, talked
fast rates, which they are not proceedings. Oizo before you
climbed into the boat, grabbed the oars and rowed without
a word more to speak, turned the boat without the painter to ask
where he wanted. Oizo felt and understood in the course redness and
pallor of the girl that she hid a heart excitation. He remained
seated and listened silently to his own heart to him up to the
neck suggested. Because the girl was in his eyes more beautiful,
and he would have gladly embraced. The Lake Biwa was as smooth
as oil, and the air was like oil. When you put two mirror each other,
it was the mirror of the evening Vorfrühlingshimmels on the mirror
of the lake. Graswürzelein suddenly put the oars into the boat and
said, "Still! They come! "And she repeated it:" Still! They come!
"Oizo wondered why he should be quiet because he has not said.
He did not know that his voice continually in the ears of the
girl and her blood hummed disrupted talked with him. He himself was
now the same. He went on and said, "Still! They come! "Because he
heard the girl talking in his blood, - she who spoke not a word.
Then it was as if rowing boats high into the air with a big oar
strokes happen, and as if mills are turned with invisible wheels.
And sounds, not music, not human voices and animal noises are not
compared, but the solemn chords in the stillness of the lake created,
sounded somewhere in the measureless space evening, district's,
were there, were to Abendgrau white flying appearances, formed
a chain the heads of the girl and the man who pulled a mirror image
in the water to see how a series of waving white towels. The
white ghost chain described a white ribbon in the sky and a white
ribbon in the water and noisy as a musical Windton and left breaths
of consternation, of longing, as if the air with unfulfilled
wishes for a long time after the Vorbeizug the wild geese of
Katata filled. It was now so dark on the lake, as if the darkness
like a second of water from the depth and would be increased
over the heads of the two people in the boat. It was just a
remnant of the days of shell, small as a transparent egg, in the
west on the beach. Oizo could not Graswürzeleins face. He
checked the bank in the boat, looked at her hands, which he wanted
to stroke.

But she had her two hands into the wide sleeves of her dress
wound, as if you had her hands amputated. "Give me your hands! I
want to warm you when you frierst. Or are you afraid before
Seegeistern bad that you're in the hands could be? Have no fear,
Graswürzelein! You're too nice. All the gods must protect yourself.
Even the evil gods are good gods, if you ansiehst. "" What do
you want from me? "Said the girl. "Did I not take the flight of wild
geese on the lake shown? Hast thou not their characters can
read their letters from the sky and the water line?
A boy of only
eleven or twelve years of age will firmly but kindly point out to
his father his defects of manner or temper; will never weary of
warning him against extravagance, idleness, late hours,
unpunctuality, and the other temptations to which the aged are so
particularly exposed; and sometimes, should he fancy that he is
monopolizing too much of the conversation at dinner, will remind
him, across the table, of the new child's adage, "Parents should be
seen, not heard."  Nor does any mistaken idea of kindness prevent
the little American girl from censuring her mother whenever it is
necessary.  Often, indeed, feeling that a rebuke conveyed in the
presence of others is more truly efficacious than one merely
whispered in the quiet of the nursery, she will call the attention
of perfect strangers to her mother's general untidiness, her want
of intellectual Boston conversation, immoderate love of iced water
and green corn, stinginess in the matter of candy, ignorance of the
usages of the best Baltimore Society, bodily ailments, and the
like.  In fact, it may be truly said that no American child is ever
blind to the deficiencies of its parents, no matter how much it may
love them.

Yet, somehow, this educational system has not been so successful as
it deserved.  In many cases, no doubt, the material with which the
children had to deal was crude and incapable of real development;
but the fact remains that the American mother is a tedious person.
The American father is better, for he is never seen in London.  He
passes his life entirely in Wall Street and communicates with his
family once a month by means of a telegram in cipher.  The mother,
however, is always with us, and, lacking the quick imitative
faculty of the younger generation, remains uninteresting and
provincial to the last.  In spite of her, however, the American
girl is always welcome.  She brightens our dull dinner parties for
us and makes life go pleasantly by for a season.  In the race for
coronets she often carries off the prize; but, once she has gained
the victory, she is generous and forgives her English rivals
everything, even their beauty.

Warned by the example of her mother that American women do not grow
old gracefully, she tries not to grow old at all and often
succeeds.  She has exquisite feet and hands, is always bien
chaussee et bien gantee and can talk brilliantly upon any subject,
provided that she knows nothing about it.

Her sense of humour keeps her from the tragedy of a grande passion,
and, as there is neither romance nor humility in her love, she
makes an excellent wife.  Bulrams very eyes stared at the door of
the dining menschenüberfüllten from the horrified face, like one
of the night in the jungle is not being made, the predator potions
draw crowds to see and the sight of the tiger family falls unconscious.
SERMONS IN STONES AT BLOOMSBURY
THE NEW SCULPTURE ROOM AT THE BRITISH MUSEUM

