On receiving our pay, which was our promised salary less twenty
dollars for the Hostetter's Bitters, my chum and myself decided to go
direct to Denver, our friend remaining in the Mountain City. We
boarded a Concord coach with six snow-white horses to wheel us on a
dead run over and around steep mountains and through dismal canyons,
first on four wheels, then three, then two and occasionally one,
keeping us constantly busy retaining our seats and fearing at every
turn that we would be dashed into eternity; and yet, it was one of the
most picturesque and thrilling rides one could take. Being tossed from
side to side in the roomy coach, now and then grabbing a fellow
passenger with desperation, gazing down from lofty peaks to yawning
chasms below, hearing the crack of the long-lashed whip urging the
noble steeds to faster speed, turning the rough, ragged,
serpent-shaped drive, thundering through clouds and mist with
lightning rapidity, and always in constant terror of a breakdown or
error on the part of the fearless driver, gave one a sensation that
would nearly make his hair stand on end. During the descent a slight
error on the part of the horses or driver, would have hurled all to a
horrible death; but those mountain drivers, strapped to their seats,
were monarchs of the Rockies and unerring in every move. From among
the snow-covered glaciers sparkling in the morning sun, emitting the
many tints of a midday storm-bow and presenting a sight of unsurpassed
grandeur, we emerged from the mouth of the last canyon and struck the
smooth rolling trail. All the way from Golden we were going, it
seemed, on the wings of the wind and were landed in Denver on
scheduled time.


CHAPTER IV

DENVER IN 1865


[Illustration: I] In that period Denver was appropriately called the
"City of the Plains." Situated sixteen miles from the base of the
nearest Rocky Mountain peak, and six hundred and fifty miles from
Atchison, Kansas, the nearest town to the East; while seven hundred
miles to the west loomed up as from the very bowels of the earth, the
beautiful city of the Mormons, Salt Lake City, Utah. The nearest
forts--two hundred miles distant--were Fort Cottonwood to the
northeast, Collins to the north and Halleck to the northwest. Its
northern limits extended to the South fork of the Platte River; Cherry
Creek running through one-third, dividing it into East and West
Denver. Its population numbered about five thousand souls. Here was to
be found the illiterate man--but a grade above the coyote--lawbreakers
of every kind and from every land, to men of culture and refinement.
Here it stood, a typical mining town, a monument to the indomitable
energy of man in his efforts to settle that barren and almost endless
plain and open to the world the Rocky's unlimited hidden gold. Here
were brick structures modern for that day, the brick being made from
the soil of the territory; a United States mint, a church, a school
house, large warehouses, stores, and the home of the _Rocky Mountain
Daily News_, which kept one partially in touch with happenings in the
faraway states. Isolated from the outside world, it was an ideal place
of refuge for those anxious to escape the outraged law. Knights of the
green cloth held full sway. Men in every walk in life gambled. A dead
man for breakfast was not an uncommon heading for the menu card, the
old tree on the west bank of Cherry Creek furnishing the man. Society
was just a little exclusive and to gain admission the pass was, "Where
are you from?" and in some cases, "Your name in the East."

Desperadoes made one attempt to lay the city in ashes and certainly
would have accomplished their purpose had it not been for the timely
action of the Vigilance Committee in hanging the ring-leaders. When
the guilt of a suspect for any crime was in doubt, he was presented
with a horse or mule and ordered to leave between sun and sun and
never return. During my four years of residence in Denver there was
but one Indian scare and it made a lasting impression on the tablet of
my memory. A church bell pealed forth the warning over the thirsty
desert of an Indian attack. Business places were closed, the women and
children were rushed to the mint and warehouses for protection, armed
men surrounded the city, pickets on horseback were thrown out in every
direction. Couriers kept thundering back and forth between picket line
and those in command and others were despatched to the different Forts
for assistance that never came. A look of determination stood out on
the face of every one and not a man, from clergyman to desperado,
within the confines of the city who would not willingly have given up
his life's blood to protect the honor of the women and lives of the
little ones. For three weary days and the same number of nights the
terrible suspense lasted, but no Indian came. It was a false alarm.

Denver, in its early settlement, was never attacked by the Indians
except in isolated cases. The only reason that I ever heard given for
their not doing so was that they knew not their strength, for there
was no time in the sixties that they could not have swooped down on
the place, massacred all and buried the little mining town in ashes.


SECURED WORK AGAIN

For a young man to obtain work other than oxen or mule driving, we
were told, was simply impossible. Not being deterred, however, by this
discouraging information we at once started out to secure work. Board
was twenty-five dollars a week in gold, and you had to furnish your
own sleeping quarters, so not to secure work at once would quickly
reduce our wealth. We had called on nearly all of the business
places, when my chum secured a position with a grocer and freighter.
As for myself, I received little encouragement but finally called at a
large restaurant where I was offered work. I told the proprietor it
was a little out of my line, but he told me that if I could not find a
position to suit me, I should walk in at any time, pull off my coat
and go to work, which I did three days later. About the tenth day the
proprietor told me his lease expired and that the man who owned the
building was going to conduct the business. He came in that afternoon,
and I was introduced to him. Before leaving he stepped into the office
and informed me that he wanted a man next to him; or, in other words,
an assistant and that the former proprietor had given me a good
recommend and he thought that I would suit him. He made me a tempting
offer and I accepted. The restaurant was located on Blake street, one
of the then principal business streets of the city, and kept open
until early morning as did the gambling places in the immediate
vicinity. I soon discovered that the new proprietor could neither read
or write and that he conducted one of the largest private club rooms
in the city where gambling was carried on without limit. He paid me a
large salary and allowed me everything my wild nature craved. I had
charge of the entire business as well as his bank account.

