THE RAPE OF LUCRECE

by William Shakespeare


TO THE

RIGHT HONOURABLE HENRY WRIOTHESLY,

EARL OF SOUTHHAMPTON, AND BARON OF TICHFIELD.

THE love I dedicate to your lordship is without end; whereof this
pamphlet, without beginning, is but a superfluous moiety.  The
warrant I have of your honourable disposition, not the worth of
my untutored lines, makes it assured of acceptance.  What I have
done is yours; what I have to do is yours; being part in all I
have, devoted yours.  Were my worth greater, my duty would show
greater; meantime, as it is, it is bound to your lordship, to
whom I wish long life, still lengthened with all happiness.

                         Your lordship's in all duty,
                              WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.

LUCIUS TARQUINIUS, for his excessive pride surnamed Superbus,
after he had caused his own father-in-law Servius Tullius to be
cruelly murdered, and, contrary to the Roman laws and customs,
not requiring or staying for the people's suffrages, had
possessed himself of the kingdom, went, accompanied with his sons
and other noblemen of Rome, to besiege Ardea.  During which siege
the principal men of the army meeting one evening at the tent of
Sextus Tarquinius, the king's son, in their discourses after
supper every one commended the virtues of his own wife; among
whom Collatinus extolled the incomparable chastity of his wife
Lucretia. In that pleasant humour they all posted to Rome; and
intending, by their secret and sudden arrival, to make trial of
that which every one had before avouched, only Collatinus finds
his wife, though it were late in the night, spinning amongst her
maids: the other ladies were all found dancing and revelling, or
in several disports.  Whereupon the noblemen yielded Collatinus
the victory, and his wife the fame.  At that time Sextus
Tarquinius being inflamed with Lucrece' beauty, yet smothering
his passions for the present, departed with the rest back to the
camp; from whence he shortly after privily withdrew himself, and
was, according to his estate, royally entertained and lodged by
Lucrece at Collatium.  The same night he treacherously stealeth
into her chamber, violently ravished her, and early in the
morning speedeth away. Lucrece, in this lamentable plight,
hastily dispatched messengers, one to Rome for her father,
another to the camp for Collatine.  They came, the one
accompanied with Junius Brutus, the other with Publius Valerius;
and finding Lucrece attired in mourning habit, demanded the cause
of her sorrow.  She, first taking an oath of them for her
revenge4 revealed the actor, and whole manner of his dealing, and
withal suddenly stabbed herself.  Which done, with one consent
they all vowed to root out the whole hated family of the
Tarquins; and bearing the dead body to Rome, Brutus acquainted
the people with the doer and manner of the vile deed, with a
bitter invective against the tyranny of the king: wherewith the
people were so moved, that with one consent and a general
acclamation the Tarquins were all exiled, and the state
government changed from kings to consuls.


From the besieged Ardea all in post,
Borne by the trustless wings of false desire,
Lust-breathed Tarquin leaves the Roman host,
And to Collatium bears the lightless fire
Which, in pale embers hid, lurks to aspire
  And girdle with embracing flames the waist
  Of Collatine's fair love, Lucrece the chaste.

Haply that name of 'chaste' unhappily set
This bateless edge on his keen appetite;
When Collatine unwisely did not let
To praise the clear unmatched red and white
Which triumph'd in that sky of his delight,
  Where mortal stars, as bright as heaven's beauties,
  With pure aspects did him peculiar duties.

For he the night before, in Tarquin's tent,
Unlock'd the treasure of his happy state;
What priceless wealth the heavens had him lent
In the possession of his beauteous mate;
Reckoning his fortune at such high-proud rate,
  That kings might be espoused to more fame,
  But king nor peer to such a peerless dame.

On which I jumped from my chair,
and rushing up to him, threw my arms about
his neck and sobbed out, "Oh, Papa!
Papa! I don't want him."
"Don't want _whom_, my boy?"
  "M-m-m-m-r. Gray," I sobbed.
  

"And who on earth is Mr. Gray, Regie?"
inquired my perplexed parent.

"The tutor--the new tutor," I explained.

  "But _whose_ new tutor?" cried the distracted
  gentleman, whose confusion seemed in no way lessened when I added,
"Mine, Papa; the one you're going to get for me."

And as no gleam of intelligence yet brightened
his puzzled face, I added, doubtfully,
"You are going to get one, aren't you,
Papa?"
"What put this idea into your head, Regie?"
  asked my father, after a pause.
  

And then I had to explain, feeling very
uncomfortable as I did so, how I had overheard
a few words at the Rectory, and a few words more
at the lodge, and how I had patched my
hearsays together and made out that a certain
  little man was coming to be my tutor, who had
  previously been tutor somewhere else, and that his name was Gray.

And all this time my father did not help me
out a bit by word or sign. By the time
I had got to the end of my story of what I
had heard, and what I had guessed, and what
Nurse Bundle and I had made out, I did not need
  any one to tell me that to listen to
  what one is not intended to hear is a thing to be ashamed of.

My cheeks and ears were very red, and
I felt very small indeed.

"Now, Regie," said my father, "I won't say
what I think about your listening to Mr. Andrewes and
  me, in order to find out what I did not
  choose to tell you. You shall tell me what you think, my boy.

Do you think it is a nice thing, a gentlemanly
thing, upright, and honest, and worthy of
Papa's only son, to sneak about listening
to what you were not meant to hear. Now
don't begin to cry, Reginald," he added, rather
  sharply; "you have nothing to cry for, and
  it's either silly or ill-tempered to whimper because I show you
that you've done wrong.

Anybody may do wrong; and if you think
that you have, why say you're sorry, like a
man, and don't do so any more."
I made a strong effort to restrain my tears of shame
and vexation, and said very heartily--
  
  "I'm very sorry, Papa.

I didn't think of it's being wrong."
"I quite believe that, my boy. But you see
that it's not right now, don't you?"
"Oh yes!" I exclaimed, "and I won't listen
any more, father." We made it up lovingly,
  Rubens flying frantically at our heads
  to join in the kisses and reconciliation.

He had been anxiously watching us, being
well aware that something was amiss.

"I don't mean to tell you what Mr. Andrewes
and I _were_ talking about," said my father,
  "because I did not wish you to hear. But I
  will tell you that you made a very bad guess at the secret.

We were not talking of a tutor, or dreaming
of one, and you have vexed yourself
for nothing. However, I think it serves
you right for listening. But we won't talk
of that any more."
  I do not think Nurse Bundle was disposed to
  blame me as much as I now blamed myself; but she was invariably
loyal to my father's decisions, and never magnified her own indulgence
in the nursery by pitying me if I got into scrapes in the
drawing-room.

"My dear," said she, "your Pa's a gentleman,
every inch of him. You listen to him, and try
and do as he does, and you'll grow up
just such another, and be a pride and
blessing to all about you."
  But we both rejoiced that at any rate our
  fears were unfounded in reference to the much-dreaded Mr.

Gray.

CHAPTER XVI
THE REAL MR. GRAY--NURSE BUNDLE REGARDS HIM
  WITH DISFAVOUR
  

My feelings may therefore be "better imagined
than described" when, at about ten
o'clock the following morning, my father
called me downstairs, and said, with an
odd expression on his face,
  "Regie, Mr. Gray has come."
  Not for one instant did I in my mind accuse my father of deceiving
me.

My faith in him was as implicit as he well
deserved that it should be.
Black might be white, two and two might
make five, impossible things might be possible,
but my father could not be in the wrong. It was
  evident that I must have misunderstood
  him last night. I looked very crestfallen indeed.
My father, however, seemed particularly cheerful, even inclined to
laugh, I thought. He took my hand and we went to the front door,
my heart beating wildly, for I was a delicate unrobust lad yet, far
too easily upset and excited. More like a girl, in fact, if the
comparison be not an insult to such sturdy maids as Cousin Polly.As one of which doth Tarquin lie revolving
The sundry dangers of his will's obtaining;
Yet ever to obtain his will resolving,
Though weak-built hopes persuade him to abstaining:
Despair to gain doth traffic oft for gaining;
  And when great treasure is the meed proposed,
  Though death be adjunct, there's no death supposed.

Those that much covet are with gain so fond,
For what they have not, that which they possess
They scatter and unloose it from their bond,
And so, by hoping more, they have but less;
Or, gaining more, the profit of excess
  Is but to surfeit, and such griefs sustain,
  That they prove bankrupt in this poor-rich gain.

The aim of all is but to nurse the life
With honour, wealth, and ease, in waning age;
And in this aim there is such thwarting strife,
That one for all, or all for one we gage;
As life for honour in fell battle's rage;
  Honour for wealth; and oft that wealth doth cost
  The death of all, and all together lost.

So that in venturing ill we leave to be
The things we are for that which we expect;
And this ambitious foul infirmity,
In having much, torments us with defect
Of that we have: so then we do neglect
  The thing we have; and, all for want of wit,
  Make something nothing by augmenting it.

Such hazard now must doting Tarquin make,
Pawning his honour to obtain his lust;
And for himself himself he must forsake:
Then where is truth, if there be no self-trust?
When shall he think to find a stranger just,
  When he himself himself confounds, betrays
  To slanderous tongues and wretched hateful days?

Now stole upon the time the dead of night,
When heavy sleep had closed up mortal eyes:
No comfortable star did lend his light,
No noise but owls' and wolves' death-boding cries;
Now serves the season that they may surprise
  The silly lambs: pure thoughts are dead and still,
  While lust and murder wake to stain and kill.

And now this lustful lord leap'd from his bed,
Throwing his mantle rudely o'er his arm;
Is madly toss'd between desire and dread;
Th' one sweetly flatters, th' other feareth harm;
But honest fear, bewitch'd with lust's foul charm,
  Doth too too oft betake him to retire,
  Beaten away by brain-sick rude desire.

His falchion on a flint he softly smiteth,
That from the cold stone sparks of fire do fly;
Whereat a waxen torch forthwith he lighteth,
Which must be lode-star to his lustful eye;
And to the flame thus speaks advisedly,
  'As from this cold flint I enforced this fire,
  So Lucrece must I force to my desire.'

Here pale with fear he doth premeditate
The dangers of his loathsome enterprise,
And in his inward mind he doth debate
What following sorrow may on this arise:
Then looking scornfully, he doth despise
  His naked armour of still-slaughter'd lust,
  And justly thus controls his thoughts unjust:

'Fair torch, burn out thy light, and lend it not
To darken her whose light excelleth thine:
And die, unhallow'd thoughts, before you blot
With your uncleanness that which is divine;
Offer pure incense to so pure a shrine:
  Let fair humanity abhor the deed
  That spots and stains love's modest snow-white weed.

'O shame to knighthood and to shining arms!
O foul dishonour to my household's grave!
O impious act, including all foul harms!
A martial man to be soft fancy's slave!
True valour still a true respect should have;
  Then my digression is so vile, so base,
  That it will live engraven in my face.

'Yea, though I die, the scandal will survive,

And be an eye-sore in my golden coat;
Some loathsome dash the herald will contrive,
To cipher me how fondly I did dote;
That my posterity, shamed with the note,
  Shall curse my bones, and hold it for no sin
  To wish that I their father had not been.

'What win I, if I gain the thing I seek?
A dream, a breath, a froth of fleeting joy.
Who buys a minute's mirth to wail a week?
Or sells eternity to 'get a toy?
For one sweet grape who will the vine destroy?
  Or what fond beggar, but to touch the crown,
  Would with the sceptre straight be strucken down?

'If Collatinus dream of my intent,
Will he not wake, and in a desperate rage
Post hither, this vile purpose to prevent?
This siege that hath engirt his marriage,
This blur to youth, this sorrow to the sage,
  This dying virtue, this surviving shame,
  Whose crime will bear an ever-during blame?

'O, what excuse can my invention make,
When thou shalt charge me with so black a deed?
Will not my tongue be mute, my frail joints shake,
Mine eyes forego their light, my false heart bleed?
The guilt being great, the fear doth still exceed;
  And extreme fear can neither fight nor fly,
  But coward-like with trembling terror die.

'Had Collatinus kill'd my son or sire,
Or lain in ambush to betray my life,
Or were he not my dear friend, this desire
Might have excuse to work upon his wife,
As in revenge or quittal of such strife:
  But as he is my kinsman, my dear friend,
  The shame and fault finds no excuse nor end.

'Shameful it is; ay, if the fact be known:
Hateful it is; there is no hate in loving:
I'll beg her love; but she is not her own:
The worst is but denial and reproving:
My will is strong, past reason's weak removing.
  Who fears a sentence or an old man's saw
  Shall by a painted cloth be kept in awe.'

Thus, graceless, holds he disputation
'Tween frozen conscience and hot-burning will,
And with good thoughts makes dispensation,
Urging the worser sense for vantage still;
Which in a moment doth confound and kill
  All pure effects, and doth so far proceed,
  That what is vile shows like a virtuous deed.

Quoth he, 'She took me kindly by the hand,
And gazed for tidings in my eager eyes,
Fearing some hard news from the warlike band,
Where her beloved Collatinus lies.
O, how her fear did make her colour rise!
  First red as roses that on lawn we lay,
  Then white as lawn, the roses took away.

'And how her hand; in my hand being lock'd,
Forced it to tremble with her loyal fear!
Which struck her sad, and then it faster rock'd,
Until her husband's welfare she did hear;
Whereat she smiled with so sweet a cheer,
  That had Narcissus seen her as she stood,
  Self-love had never drown'd him in the flood.

'Why hunt I then for colour or excuses?
All orators are dumb when beauty pleadeth;
Poor wretches have remorse in poor abuses;
Love thrives not in the heart that shadows dreadeth:
Affection is my captain, and he leadeth;
  And when his gaudy banner is display'd,
  The coward fights and will not be dismay'd.

'Then, childish fear, avaunt! debating, die!
Respect and reason, wait on wrinkled age!
My heart shall never countermand mine eye:
Sad pause and deep regard beseem the sage;
My part is youth, and beats these from the stage:
  Desire my pilot is, beauty my prize;
  Then who fears sinking where such treasure lies?'

As corn o'ergrown by weeds, so heedful fear
Is almost choked by unresisted lust.
Away he steals with open listening ear,
Full of foul hope and full of fond mistrust;
Both which, as servitors to the unjust,
  So cross him with their opposite persuasion,
  That now he vows a league, and now invasion.

Within his thought her heavenly image sits,
And in the self-same seat sits Collatine:
That eye which locks on her confounds his wits;
That eye which him beholds, as more divine,
Unto a view so false will not incline;
  But with a pure appeal seeks to the heart,
  Which once corrupted takes the worser part;

And therein heartens up his servile powers,
Who, flatter'd by their leader's jocund show,
Stuff up his lust, as minutes fill up hours;
And as their captain, so their pride doth grow.
Paying more slavish tribute than they owe.
  By reprobate desire thus madly led,
  The Roman lord marcheth to Lucrece' bed.

The locks between her chamber and his will,
Each one by him enforced retires his ward;
But, as they open, they all rate his ill,
Which drives the creeping thief to some regard:
The threshold grates the door to have him heard;
  Night-wandering weasels shriek to see him there;
  They fright him, yet he still pursues his fear.

As each unwilling portal yields him way,
Through little vents and crannies of the place
The wind wars with his torch to make him stay,
And blows the smoke of it into his face,
Extinguishing his conduct in this case;
  But his hot heart, which fond desire doth scorch,
  Puffs forth another wind that fires the torch:

And being lighted, by the light he spies
Lucretia's glove, wherein her needle sticks:
He takes it from the rushes where it lies,
And griping it, the needle his finger pricks;
As who should say 'This glove to wanton tricks
  Is not inured: return again in haste;
  Thou see'st our mistress' ornaments are chaste.'

But all these poor forbiddings could not stay him;
He in the worst sense construes their denial:
The doors, the wind, the glove, that did delay him,
He takes for accidental things of trial;
Or as those bars which stop the hourly dial,
  Who with a lingering stay his course doth let,
  Till every minute pays the hour his debt.

'So, so,' quoth he, 'these lets attend the time,
Like little frosts that sometime threat the spring.
To add a more rejoicing to the prime,
And give the sneaped birds more cause to sing.
Pain pays the income of each precious thing;
  Huge rocks, high winds, strong pirates, shelves and sands,
  The merchant fears, ere rich at home he lands.'

Now is he come unto the chamber door,
That shuts him from the heaven of his thought,
Which with a yielding latch, and with no more,
Hath barr'd him from the blessed thing he sought.
So from himself impiety hath wrought,
  That for his prey to pray he doth begin,
  As if the heavens should countenance his sin.

But in the midst of his unfruitful prayer,
Having solicited th' eternal power
That his foul thoughts might compass his fair fair
And they would stand auspicious to the hour,
Even there he starts: quoth he, 'I must de-flower:
  The powers to whom I pray abhor this fact,
  How can they then assist me in the act?

'Then Love and Fortune be my gods, my guide!
My will is back'd with resolution:
Thoughts are but dreams till their effects be tried;
The blackest sin is clear'd with absolution;
Against love's fire fear's frost hath dissolution.
  The eye of heaven is out, and misty night
  Covers the shame that follows sweet delight.'

This said, his guilty hand pluck'd up the latch,
And with his knee the door he opens wide.
The dove sleeps fast that this night-owl will catch:
Thus treason works ere traitors be espied.
Who sees the lurking serpent steps aside;
  But she, sound sleeping, fearing no such thing,
  Lies at the mercy of his mortal sting.

Into the chamber wickedly he stalks,
And gazeth on her yet unstained bed.
The curtains being close, about he walks,
Rolling his greedy eyeballs in his head:
By their high treason is his heart misled;
  Which gives the watch-word to his hand full soon
  To draw the cloud that hides the silver moon.

Look, as the fair and fiery-pointed sun,
Rushing from forth a cloud, bereaves our sight;
Even so, the curtain drawn, his eyes begun
To wink, being blinded with a greater light:
Whether it is that she reflects so bright,
  That dazzleth them, or else some shame supposed;
  But blind they are, and keep themselves enclosed.

It come direct from the Indies, and the
butterflies and the dragons is as natteral
as life. 'Whose picter's that in the
last room?' You should have kept with the
party, young woman, and then you'd 'ave knowed.
  Parties who don't keep with the party, and
  then wants the information repeated, will be considered as another
party, and must pay accordingly.

Next room, through the white door to the
left. Now, sir, we're a-waiting for
you! All together, if you please!"
[Illustration: "All together, if you please!"]

  But in spite of the good lady, I generally
  managed to linger behind, or run before, and so to look at things
in my own way.

Once, as she was rehearsing the history
of a certain picture, I made my way out of
the room, and catching sight of some
pretty things through an open door at the
end of the passage, I went in to see what I could
  see.
  Some others were following me when the housekeeper spied them, and
bustled up, angrily recalling us, for the room, as we found, was a
private _boudoir_, and not one of those shown to the public.

In my brief glance, however, I had seen something which
made me try to get some information
out of the housekeeper, in spite of her
displeasure.

  "Who are those little girls in the picture by
  the sofa?" I asked.

"Please tell me."
"I gives all information in reference
to the public rooms," replied the housekeeper,
loftily, "as in duty bound; but the
private rooms is not in my instructions."
  
  And nothing more could I get out of her to explain the picture which
had so seized upon my fancy.

It was a very pretty painting--a modern
one. Just the heads and shoulders of two
little girls, one of them having her face
just below that of the other, whose little
arms were round her sister's neck. I
  knew them in an instant. There was
  no mistaking that look of decision in the face of the protecting
little damsel, nor the wistful appealing glance in the eyes of the
other.

The artist had caught both most happily;
and though the fair locks I had admired
were uncovered, I knew my little ladies of the
beaver bonnets again.

  Having failed to learn anything about them
  from the housekeeper, I went to old Giles and asked him the name
of the gentleman to whom the place belonged.

"St. John," he replied.

"I suppose he has got children?" I
continued.

  "Only one living," said old Giles. "They
  do say he've buried six, most on 'em in galloping consumptions.

It do stand to reason they've had all done for
'em that gold could buy, but afflictions,
sir, they be as heavy on the rich man
as the poor; and when a body's time be come it
ain't outlandish oils nor furrin parts can cure
  'em."
  I wondered which of the quaint little ladies had died, and whether
they had taken her to "furrin parts" before her death; and I thought
if it were the grey-eyed little maid, how sad and helpless her
little sister must be.

"Only one left?" I said mechanically.

"Ay, ay," said old Giles; "and he be
pretty bad, I fancy. They've got him in furrin
parts where the sun shines all along; but they
  do say he be wild to get back home, but
  that'll not be, but in his coffin, to be laid with the rest in the
big vault.

Ay, ay, affliction spares none, sir,
nor yet death."
So this last of the St. John family was a boy. If
the little ladies were his sisters, both must
be dead; if not, I did not know who they were.
  I felt very angry with the housekeeper for
  her sulky reticence.

I was also not highly pleased by her manner
of treating me, for she evidently took me for
one of the Sunday-school boys. I fear it was
partly a shabby pride on this point which
led me to "tip" her with half-a-crown on my
  own account when we were taking leave. In a
  moment she became civil to slavishness, hoped I had enjoyed myself,
and professed her willingness to show me anything about the place
any day when there were not so "many of them school children crowging
and putting a body out, sir.

There's such a many common people comes, sir,"
she added, "I'm quite wored out, and having
no need to be in service, and all my friends
a-begging of me to leave. I only stays to
oblige Mr. St. John."
  It was, I think, chiefly in the way I had of
  thinking aloud that I said, more to myself than to her, "I'm sure
I don't know what makes him keep you, you do it so very badly.

But perhaps you're respectable."
The half-crown had been unexpected, and
this blow fairly took away her breath. Before
her rage found words, we were gone.

  I did not fail to call on Mr. and Mrs. Buckle.
  The shop looked just the same as when I was there with Mrs.

Bundle. One would have said those were the
very rolls of leather that used to stand
near the door.
The good people were delighted to see me, and
proud to be introduced to Mr. Andrewes
  and my tutor. I had brought some little presents
  with me, both from myself and Nurse Bundle, which gave great
satisfaction.

"And where is Jemima?" I asked, as I sat nursing
an imposing-looking parcel addressed to her,
which was a large toilette pincushion made
and ready furnished with pins for her by Mrs.
Bundle herself.
  
  "Now, did you ever!" cried Mrs.

Buckle in her old style; "to think of the
young gentleman's remembering our Jemima, and
she married to Jim Espin the tinsmith
this six months past."
So to the tinsmith's I went, and Jemima was, as
  she expressed it, "that pleased she
  didn't know where to put herself," by my visit.

She presented me with a small tin
lantern on which I had made some remark, and which
pleased me well. I saw the drawer of farthing
wares also, and might have had a flat
iron had I been so minded; but I was
  too old now to want it for a plaything,
  and too young yet to take it as a remembrance of the past.

I asked Mrs. Buckle about the two little
beaver-bonneted ladies, but she did not help
me much. She did not remember them. They might
be Mr.
St. John's little girls; he had buried
  four. A many ladies wore beaver bonnets
  then. This was all she could say, so I gave up my inquiries.

It was as we were on our way from the Buckles to join
the rest of the party that Mr. Clerke caught
sight of the quaint little village church,
and as churches and church services were matters of
great interest to us just then, the two
  parsons, the churchwarden, five elder scholars
  and myself got the key from the sexton and went to examine the
interior.

It was an old and rather dilapidated
building. The glass in the east window
was in squares of the tint and consistency of
"bottle glass," except where one fragment
of what is technically known as "ruby"
  bore witness that there had once been a
   stained window there.

There were dirty calico blinds to do duty for
stained glass in moderating the light; dirt,
long gathered, had blunted the sharpness
of the tracery on the old carved
stalls in the chancel, where the wood-worms
  of several generations had eaten fresh
  patterns of their own, and the squat, solemn little carved figures
seemed to moulder under one's eyes.

In the body of the church were high pews painted
white, and four or five old tombs with
life-size recumbent figures fitted in oddly
with these, and a skimpy looking
prayer-desk, pulpit, and font, which were squeezed
  together between the half-rotten
  screen and a stone knight in armour.

"Pretty tidy," said our churchwarden,
tapping of the pews with a patronising
finger; "but bless and save us, Mr. Andrewes,
sir, the walls be disgraceful dirty, and
  ten shillings' worth of lime and labour would
  make 'em as white as the driven snow.

The sexton says there be a rate, and if so, why don't
they whitewash and paint a bit, and get rid of
them rotten old seats, and make things a bit
decent?
You don't find a many places to beat Dacrefield,
  sir, go as far as you will," he added
  complacently, and with an air of having exhausted experience in
the matter of country churches.

"Them old figures," he went on, "they puts me in
mind of one my father used to tell us about, that
was in Dacrefield Church. A man with a kind
of cap on his face, and his feet crossed, and
very pointed toes, and a sword by his side."
  "At Dacrefield?" cried Mr. Andrewes;
  "surely there isn't a Templar at Dacrefield?"

"It were in the old church that came
down," continued the churchwarden, "in
the old Squire's time. There was a deal
of ancient rubbish cleared out then,
sir, I've heard, and laid in the stackyard
  at the Hall. It were when my father were
  employed as mason under 'brick and mortar Benson,' as they called
him, for repairs of a wall, and they were short of stones, and they
chipped up the figure I be telling you of.

My father allus said he knowed the head
was put in whole, and many's the time I've looked
for it when a boy."
I think Mr. Andrewes could endure the
churchwarden's tale of former destructiveness
  no longer, and he abruptly called us to
  come away.

I was just running to join the rest
at the door, when my eye fell upon a modern
tablet of marble above a large cushioned pew.
Like the other monuments in the church,
it was sacred to the memory of members of
  the St. John family, and, as I found
  recorded the names of the wife and six children of the present
owner of the estate.

Very pathetic, after the record of such desolation,
were the words of Job (cut below the bas-relief
at the bottom, which, not very gracefully,
represented a broken flower): "The LORD gave, and
the LORD hath taken away: blessed be the name of the
  LORD."
  Mr. Clerke was hurrying back up the church to fetch me as I read
the text.

I had just time to see that the last two names
were the names of girls, before I had to join
him.

Amy and Lucy. Were those indeed the
  dainty little children who such a short
  time ago were living, and busy like myself, happy with the tinsmith's
toys, and sad for a drenched doll?

Wild speculations floated through my head as
I followed the tutor, without hearing one
word of what he was saying about tea and
teachers, and reaching Dacrefield before dark.

  I had wished to be their brother. Supposing it
  had been so, and that I were now withering under the family doom,
homesick and sick unto death "in furrin parts!"

My last supposition I thought aloud:

"I suppose they know all the old knights, and
those people in ruffs, with their sons and
daughters kneeling behind them, now.
  That is, if they were good, and went
  to heaven."

"_Who_ do you suppose know the people in the
ruffs?" asked the bewildered tutor.

"Amy and Lucy St. John," said I; "the children
who died last."
  "Well, Regie, you certainly _do_ say _the_ most
  _sin_gular things," said Mr. Clerke.

But that was a speech he often made, with the
emphasis as it is given here.

  CHAPTER XXII
  NURSE BUNDLE FINDS A VOCATION--RAGGED ROBIN'S WIFE--MRS.

BUNDLE'S IDEAS ON HUSBANDS AND PUBLIC-HOUSES

I was very happy under Mr. Clerke's sway, and
yet I was glad to go to school.
  
  The tutor himself, who had been "on the foundation" at Eton, had
helped to fill me with anticipations of public-school life.

It was decided that I also should go to
Eton, but as an oppidan, and becoming
already a partisan of my own part of the
school, I often now disputed conclusions or
questioned facts in my tutor's school anecdotes,
  which commonly tended to the sole
  glorification of the "collegers."

I must not omit to mention an interview that
about this period took place between
my father and Mrs. Bundle. It was
one morning just after the Eton matter had been
settled, that my nurse presented herself
  in my father's library, her face fatter and
  redder than usual from being swollen and inflamed by weeping.

"Well?" said my father, looking up pleasantly
from his accounts. But he added hastily, "Why,
bless me, Mrs. Bundle, what is the matter?"
"Asking your pardon for troubling you,
sir," Nurse Bundle began in a choky
  voice, "but as you made no mention of it yourself, sir,
  your kindness being what it is, and the young gentleman as good
as gone to school, and me eating the bread of idleness ever since
that tutor come, I wished to know, sir, when you thought of giving
me notice."

"Give you notice to do what?" asked my father.

"To leave your service, sir," said Mrs. Bundle,
steadily. "There's no nurse wanted in this
establishment now, sir."
  My father laid one hand on Mrs. Bundle's
  shoulder, and with the other he drew forward a miniature of my
mother which always hung on a standing frame on the writing-table.

"It is like yourself to be so scrupulous," he said;
"but you will never again speak of leaving
us, Mrs. Bundle. Please, for her sake," added my
father, his own voice faltering as he looked
towards the miniature. As for Nurse Bundle,
  her tears utterly forbade her to get out a
  word.

"If you have too much to do," my father went on, "let a
young girl be got to relieve you of any
work that troubles you; or, if you very much wish for
a home to yourself, I have no right to refuse
  that, though I wish you could be happy
  under my roof, and I will see about one of those cottages near the
gate.

But you will not desert me--and Reginald--after
so many years."
"The day I do leave will be the breaking of
my heart," sobbed Nurse Bundle, "and if there
was any ways in which I could be useful--but take
  wages for nothing, I could not, sir."
  "Mrs.

Bundle," said my father, "if your wages
were a matter of any importance to me, if
I could not afford even to pay you for your
work, I should still ask you to share
my home, with such comforts as I had to offer,
  and to help me so far as you could, for
  the sake of the past.

I must always be under an obligation to you
which I can never repay," added my father,
in his rather elaborate style. "And as to being
useful, well, ahem, if you will kindly
continue to superintend and repair my linen
  and Master Reginald's ----"
  "Why, bless your innocence, sir, and meaning no disrespect," said
Mrs.

Bundle, "but there ain't no mending in _your_
linen. There was some darning in the
tutor's socks, but you give away
half-a-dozen pair last Monday, sir, as
hadn't a darn in 'em no bigger than a pea."
  
  I think it was the allusion to "giving away" that suggested an idea
to my father in his perplexity for employing Nurse Bundle.

"Stay," he exclaimed, "Mrs. Bundle,
there is a way in which you could be
of the greatest service to me. I often
feel that the loss of a lady at the
head of my household must be especially
  felt among the poor people around
  us--additionally so, as Mr.

Andrewes is not married, and there is no lady
either at the Rectory or here to visit the sick
and encourage the mothers and children. I
fear that when I do anything for them it
is often in a wrong way, or for wrong objects."
  "Well, sir," said Mrs. Bundle, an old grievance
  rushing to her mind, "I had thought myself of making so bold as
to speak to you about that there Tommy Masden as you give half-crowns
to, as tells you one big lie on the top of another, and his father
drinks every penny he earns, and his mother at the back-door all
along for scraps, and throwed the Christmas soup to the pig, and
said they wasn't come to the workus yet; and a coat as good as new
of yours, sir, hanging out of the door of the pawnshop, and giving
me such a turn I thought my legs would never have carried me home,
till I found you'd given it to that Tommy, who won't do a hand's
turn for sixpence, but begs at every house in the parish every week
as comes round, and tells everybody, as he tells yourself, sir,
that he never gets nothing from nobody."

"Well, well," said my father, laughing, "you
see how I want somebody to look out the
real cases of distress and deserving poverty.
Of course, I must speak to Mr. Andrewes first, Mrs.
Bundle, but I am sure he will be as glad as
  myself that you should do what we have neither
  of us a wife to undertake."

I know Nurse Bundle was only too glad to reconcile
her honest conscience to staying at
Dacrefield; and I think the allusion to the lack
of a lady head to our household decided
her at all risks to remove that
  reason for a second Mrs. Dacre. Moreover, the
  duties proposed for her suited her tastes to a shade.

Mr. Andrewes was delighted. And thus it came about that,
though my father would have been horrified
at the idea of employing a Sister of Mercy,
and though Bible-woman and district visitor
were names not familiar in our simple parochial
  machinery, Mrs.
  He thence departs a heavy convertite;
She there remains a hopeless castaway;
He in his speed looks for the morning light;
She prays she never may behold the day,
'For day,' quoth she, 'night's scapes doth open lay,
  And my true eyes have never practised how
  To cloak offences with a cunning brow.

'They think not but that every eye can see
The same disgrace which they themselves behold;
And therefore would they still in darkness be,
To have their unseen sin remain untold;
For they their guilt with weeping will unfold,
  And grave, like water that doth eat in steel,
  Upon my cheeks what helpless shame I feel.'

Here she exclaims against repose and rest,
And bids her eyes hereafter still be blind.
She wakes her heart by beating on her breast,
And bids it leap from thence, where it may find
Some purer chest to close so pure a mind.
  Frantic with grief thus breathes she forth her spite
  Against the unseen secrecy of night:

'O comfort-killing Night, image of hell!
Dim register and notary of shame!
Black stage for tragedies and murders fell!
Vast sin-concealing chaos! nurse of blame!
Blind muffled bawd! dark harbour for defame!
  Grim cave of death! whispering conspirator
  With close-tongued treason and the ravisher!

'O hateful, vaporous, and foggy Night!
Since thou art guilty of my cureless crime,
Muster thy mists to meet the eastern light,
Make war against proportion'd course of time;
Or if thou wilt permit the sun to climb
  His wonted height, yet ere he go to bed,
  Knit poisonous clouds about his golden head.

'With rotten damps ravish the morning air;
Let their exhaled unwholesome breaths make sick
The life of purity, the supreme fair,
Ere he arrive his weary noon-tide prick;
And let thy misty vapours march so thick,
  That in their smoky ranks his smother'd light
  May set at noon and make perpetual night.

'Were Tarquin Night, as he is but Night's child,
The silver-shining queen he would distain;
Her twinkling handmaids too, by him defiled,
Through  Night's  black  bosom  should  not peep again:
So should I have co-partners in my pain;
  And fellowship in woe doth woe assuage,
  As palmers' chat makes short their pilgrimage.

'Where now I have no one to blush with me,
To cross their arms and hang their heads with mine,
To mask their brows and hide their infamy;
But I alone alone must sit and pine,
Seasoning the earth with showers of silver brine,
  Mingling my talk with tears, my grief with groans,
  Poor wasting monuments of lasting moans.

'O Night, thou furnace of foul-reeking smoke,
Let not the jealous Day behold that face
Which underneath thy black all-hiding cloak
Immodesty lies martyr'd with disgrace!
Keep still possession of thy gloomy place,
  That all the faults which in thy reign are made
  May likewise be sepulchred in thy shade!

'Make me not object to the tell-tale Day!
The light will show, character'd in my brow,
The story of sweet chastity's decay,
The impious breach of holy wedlock vow:
Yea, the illiterate, that know not how
  To cipher what is writ in learned books,
  Will quote my loathsome trespass in my looks.

'The nurse, to still her child, will tell my story
And fright her crying babe with Tarquin's name;
The orator, to deck his oratory,
Will couple my reproach to Tarquin's shame;
Feast-finding minstrels, tuning my defame,
  Will tie the hearers to attend each line,
  How Tarquin wronged me, I Collatine.

'Let my good name, that senseless reputation,
For Collatine's dear love be kept unspotted:
If that be made a theme for disputation,
The branches of another root are rotted
And undeserved reproach to him allotted
  That is as clear from this attaint of mine
  As I, ere this, was pure to Collatine.

'O unseen shame! invisible disgrace!
O unfelt sore crest-wounding, private scar!
Reproach is stamp'd in Collatinus' face,
And Tarquin's eye may read the mot afar,
How he in peace is wounded, not in war.
  Alas, how many bear such shameful blows,
  Which not themselves, but he that gives them knows!

'If, Collatine, thine honour lay in me,
From me by strong assault it is bereft.
My honey lost, and I, a drone-like bee,
Have no perfection of my summer left,
But robb'd and ransack'd by injurious theft:
  In thy weak hive a wandering wasp hath crept,
  And suck'd the honey which thy chaste bee kept.

'Yet am I guilty of thy honour's wrack;
Yet for thy honour did I entertain him;
Coming from thee, I could not put him back,
For it had been dishonour to disdain him:
Besides, of weariness he did complain him,
  And talk'd of virtue: O unlook'd-for evil,
  When virtue is profaned in such a devil!

'Why should the worm intrude the maiden bud?
Or hateful cuckoos hatch in sparrows' nests?
Or toads infect fair founts with venom mud?
Or tyrant folly lurk in gentle breasts?
Or kings be breakers of their own behests?
  But no perfection is so absolute,
  That some impurity doth not pollute.

'The aged man that coffers-up his gold
Is plagued with cramps and gouts and painful fits;
And scarce hath eyes his treasure to behold,
But like still-pining Tantalus he sits,
And useless barns the harvest of his wits;
  Having no other pleasure of his gain
  But torment that it cannot cure his pain.

'So then he hath it when he cannot use it,
And leaves it to be master'd by his young;
Who in their pride do presently abuse it:
Their father was too weak, and they too strong,
To hold their cursed-blessed fortune long.
  The sweets we wish for turn to loathed sours
  Even in the moment that we call them ours.

'Unruly blasts wait on the tender spring;
Unwholesome weeds take root with precious flowers;
The adder hisses where the sweet birds sing;
What virtue breeds iniquity devours:
We have no good that we can say is ours,
  But ill-annexed Opportunity
  Or kills his life or else his quality.

'O Opportunity, thy guilt is great!
'Tis thou that executest the traitor's treason:
Thou set'st the wolf where he the lamb may get;
Whoever plots the sin, thou point'st the season;
'Tis thou that spurn'st at right, at law, at reason;
  And in thy shady cell, where none may spy him,
  Sits Sin, to seize the souls that wander by him.

'Thou makest the vestal violate her oath;
Thou blow'st the fire when temperance is thaw'd;
Thou smother'st honesty, thou murder'st troth;
Thou foul abettor! thou notorious bawd!
Thou plantest scandal and displacest laud:
  Thou ravisher, thou traitor, thou false thief,
  Thy honey turns to gall, thy joy to grief!

'Thy secret pleasure turns to open shame,
Thy private feasting to a public fast,
Thy smoothing titles to a ragged name,
Thy sugar'd tongue to bitter wormwood taste:
Thy violent vanities can never last.
  How comes it then, vile Opportunity,
  Being so bad, such numbers seek for thee?

'When wilt thou be the humble suppliant's friend,
And bring him where his suit may be obtain'd?
When wilt thou sort an hour great strifes to end?
Or free that soul which wretchedness hath chain'd?
Give physic to the sick, ease to the pain'd?
  The poor, lame, blind, halt, creep, cry out for thee;
  But they ne'er meet with Opportunity.

'The patient dies while the physician sleeps;
The orphan pines while the oppressor feeds;
Justice is feasting while the widow weeps;
Advice is sporting while infection breeds:
Thou grant'st no time for charitable deeds:
  Wrath, envy, treason, rape, and murder's rages,
  Thy heinous hours wait on them as their pages.

'When Truth and Virtue have to do with thee,
A thousand crosses keep them from thy aid:
They buy thy help; but Sin ne'er gives a fee,
He gratis comes; and thou art well appaid
As well to hear as grant what he hath said.
  My Collatine would else have come to me
  When Tarquin did, but he was stay'd by thee.

'Guilty thou art of murder and of theft,
Guilty of perjury and subornation,
Guilty of treason, forgery, and shift,
Guilty of incest, that abomination;
An accessory by thine inclination
  To all sins past, and all that are to come,
  From the creation to the general doom.

'Mis-shapen Time, copesmate of ugly Night,
Swift subtle post, carrier of grisly care,
Eater of youth, false slave to false delight,
Base watch of woes, sin's pack-horse, virtue's snare;
Thou nursest all and murder'st all that are:
  O, hear me then, injurious, shifting Time!
  Be guilty of my death, since of my crime.

'Why hath thy servant, Opportunity,
Betray'd the hours thou gavest me to repose,
Cancell'd my fortunes, and enchained me
To endless date of never-ending woes?
Time's office is to fine the hate of foes;
  To eat up errors by opinion bred,
  Not spend the dowry of a lawful bed.

'Time's glory is to calm contending kings,
To unmask falsehood and bring truth to light,
To stamp the seal of time in aged things,
To wake the morn and sentinel the night,
To wrong the wronger till he render right;
  To ruinate proud buildings with thy hours,
  And smear with dust their glittering golden towers;

'To fill with worm-holes stately monuments,
To feed oblivion with decay of things,
To blot old books and alter their contents,
To pluck the quills from ancient ravens' wings,
To dry the old oak's sap and cherish springs,
  To spoil antiquities of hammer'd steel,
  And turn the giddy round of Fortune's wheel;

'To show the beldam daughters of her daughter,
To make the child a man, the man a child,
To slay the tiger that doth live by slaughter,
To tame the unicorn and lion wild,
To mock the subtle in themselves beguiled,
  To cheer the ploughman with increaseful crops,
  And waste huge stones with little waterdrops.

'Why work'st thou mischief in thy pilgrimage,
Unless thou couldst return to make amends?
One poor retiring minute in an age
Would purchase thee a thousand thousand friends,
Lending him wit that to bad debtors lends:
  O, this dread night, wouldst thou one hour come back,
  I could prevent this storm and shun thy wrack!

'Thou cease!ess lackey to eternity,
With some mischance cross Tarquin in his flight:
Devise extremes beyond extremity,
To make him curse this cursed crimeful night:
Let ghastly shadows his lewd eyes affright;
  And the dire thought of his committed evil
  Shape every bush a hideous shapeless devil.

'Disturb his hours of rest with restless trances,
Afflict him in his bed with bedrid groans:
Let there bechance him pitiful mischances,
To make him moan; but pity not his moans:
Stone him with harden'd hearts, harder than stones;
  And let mild women to him lose their mildness,
  Wilder to him than tigers in their wildness.

Would a modern force storm a camp without
taking rations? I dare say they would.

C2.37. Notice the tone he adopts to these
slaves; no bullying, but appealing to appetite
  and lower motives. This is doubtless
  Xenophontine and Hellenic.

C2.38. Important as illustrating the
stern Spartan self-denial of the man and his
followers. There is a hedonistic test, but
the higher hedonism prevails against the
  lower: ignoble and impolitic to sit
  here feasting while they are fighting, and we don't even know how
it fares with them, our allies.

The style rises and is at times Pauline.
St.
Paul, of course, is moving on a higher
spiritual plane, but still--
C2.45, fin. The Education of Cyrus, Cyropaedia,
  {Keroupaideia}; the name justified.
  

C2.46. Hystaspas' simple response:
important, with other passages, to show
how naturally it came to them (i.e. the
Hellenes and Xenophon) to give a spiritual
application to their rules of bodily and mental
  training. These things to them are an allegory.
  The goal is lofty, if not so sublime as St.

Paul's or Comte's, the Christians or Positivists
(there has been an alteration for the
better in the spiritual plane, and Socrates
helped to bring it about, I believe), but
/ceteris paribus/, the words of St. Paul are the words
  of Hystaspas and Xenophon. They for a
  corruptible crown, and we for an incorruptible-- and one might
find a still happier parable!
C2.46. Fine sentiment, this /noblesse oblige/ (cf. the archangelic
dignity in Milton, /Paradise Lost/, I think).'Out, idle words, servants to shallow fools!
Unprofitable sounds, weak arbitrators!
Busy yourselves in skill-contending schools;
Debate where leisure serves with dull debaters;
To trembling clients be you mediators:
  For me, I force not argument a straw,
  Since that my case is past the help of law.

'In vain I rail at Opportunity,
At Time, at Tarquin, and uncheerful Night;
In vain I cavil with mine infamy,
In vain I spurn at my confirm'd despite:
This helpless smoke of words doth me no right.
  The remedy indeed to do me good
  Is to let forth my foul-defiled blood.

'Poor hand, why quiver'st thou at this decree?
Honour thyself to rid me of this shame;
For if I die, my honour lives in thee;
But if I live, thou livest in my defame:
Since thou couldst not defend thy loyal dame,
  And wast afeard to scratch her wicked foe,
  Kill both thyself and her for yielding so.'

This said, from her be-tumbled couch she starteth,
To find some desperate instrument of death:
But this no slaughterhouse no tool imparteth
To make more vent for passage of her breath;
Which, thronging through her lips, so vanisheth
  As smoke from Aetna, that in air consumes,
  Or that which from discharged cannon fumes.

'In vain,' quoth she, 'I live, and seek in vain
Some happy mean to end a hapless life.
I fear'd by Tarquin's falchion to be slain,
Yet for the self-same purpose seek a knife:
But when I fear'd I was a loyal wife:
  So am I now: O no, that cannot be;
  Of that true type hath Tarquin rifled me.

'O, that is gone for which I sought to live,
And therefore now I need not fear to die.
To clear this spot by death, at least I give
A badge of fame to slander's livery;
A dying life to living infamy:
  Poor helpless help, the treasure stol'n away,
  To burn the guiltless casket where it lay!

'Well, well, dear Collatine, thou shalt know
The stained taste of violated troth;
I will not wrong thy true affection so,
To flatter thee with an infringed oath;
This bastard graff shall never come to growth:
  He shall not boast who did thy stock pollute
  That thou art doting father of his fruit.

Nor shall he smile at thee in secret thought,
Nor laugh with his companions at thy state;
But thou shalt know thy interest was not bought
Basely with gold, but stol'n from forth thy gate.
For me, I am the mistress of my fate,
  And with my trespass never will dispense,
  Till life to death acquit my forced offence.

'I will not poison thee with my attaint,
Nor fold my fault in cleanly-coin'd excuses;
My sable ground of sin I will not paint,
To hide the truth of this false night's abuses:
My tongue shall utter all; mine eyes, like sluices,
  As from a mountain-spring that feeds a dale,
  Shall gush pure streams to purge my impure tale.'

By this; lamenting Philomel had ended
The well-tuned warble of her nightly sorrow,
And solemn night with slow sad gait descended
To ugly hell; when, lo, the blushing morrow
Lends light to all fair eyes that light will borrow:
  But cloudy Lucrece shames herself to see,
  And therefore still in night would cloister'd be.

And he constantly repeated this. "He is a
very remarkable man."
After a while Mr. Clerke ceased to be put out
by my asking strange unchildish questions which he was
not always able to answer. He often said, "We will
  ask Mr. Andrewes what he thinks;" and for my
  own part, I respected him none the less that he often honestly
confessed that he could not, off-hand, solve all the problems that
exercised my brain.

He was not a good general naturalist but he
was fond of geology, and was kind enough
to take me out with him on "chipping" expeditions,
and to start me with a "collection" of fossils.
I had already a collection of flowers, a
  collection of shells, a collection of wafers,
  and a collection of seals.

(People did not collect monograms and old
stamps in my young days.) These collections
were a sore vexation to Nurse Bundle.

"Whatever a gentleman like the Rector is
  thinking of, for to encourage you in such
  rubbish, my dear," said she, "it passes me!

It's vexing enough to see dirt and bits about
that shouldn't be, when you can take the
dust-pan and clear 'em away. But to have
dead leaves, and weeds, and stones off
the road brought in day after day, and not
  be allowed so much as to touch them,
  and a young gentleman that has things worth golden guineas to play
with, storing up a lot of stuff you could pick off any rubbish-heap
in a field before it's burned--if it was anybody but you, my dear,
I couldn't abear it.

And what's a tutor for, I should like to
know?"
(Mrs. Bundle, who at no time liked blaming her
darling, had now acquired a habit of laying the
blame of any misdoings of mine on the tutor,
  on the ground that he "ought to have seen to" my
  acting differently.)

If Mr. Clerke discovered that he could confess to
being puzzled by some of my questions, without
losing ground in his pupil's respect, I
soon found out that my grown-up tutor had not
altogether outlived boyish feelings. It
  dimly dawned on me that he liked a holiday
  quite as well, if not better than myself; and as we grew more
intimate we had many a race and scramble and game together, when
bookwork was over for the day.

He rode badly, but with courage, and the mishaps
he managed to suffer when riding the quietest
and oldest of my father's horses were food
for fun with him as well as with me.

  He told me that he was going to be a clergyman,
  and on Sunday afternoons we commonly engaged in strong religious
discussions.

During the fruit season it was also our custom on
that day to visit the kitchen-garden after
luncheon, where we ate gooseberries,
and settled our theological differences. There
is a little low, hot stone seat by one of the
  cucumber frames on which I never can seat
  myself now without recollections of the flavour of the little
round, hairy, red gooseberries, and of a lengthy dispute which I
held there with Mr.

Clerke, and which began by my saying that I looked
forward to meeting Rubens "in a better
world." I distinctly remember that I could
bring forward so little authority for my belief,
and the tutor so little against it, that
  we adjourned by common consent to the Rectory to take
  Mr. Andrewes' opinion, and taste his strawberries.

I feel quite sure that Mr. Clerke, as
well as myself, strongly felt the Rector's
influence.
They that lose half with greater patience bear it
Than they whose whole is swallow'd in confusion.
That mother tries a merciless conclusion
  Who, having two sweet babes, when death takes one,
  Will slay the other and be nurse to none.

'My body or my soul, which was the dearer,
When the one pure, the other made divine?
Whose love of either to myself was nearer,
When both were kept for heaven and Collatine?
Ay me! the bark peel'd from the lofty pine,
  His leaves will wither and his sap decay;
  So must my soul, her bark being peel'd away.

'Her house is sack'd, her quiet interrupted,
Her mansion batter'd by the enemy;
Her sacred temple spotted, spoil'd, corrupted,
Grossly engirt with daring infamy:
Then let it not be call'd impiety,
  If in this blemish'd fort I make some hole
  Through which I may convey this troubled soul.

'Yet die I will not till my Collatine
Have heard the cause of my untimely death;
That he may vow, in that sad hour of mine,
Revenge on him that made me stop my breath.
My stained blood to Tarquin I'll bequeath,
  Which by him tainted shall for him be spent,
  And as his due writ in my testament.

'My honour I'll bequeath unto the knife
That wounds my body so dishonoured.
'Tis honour to deprive dishonour'd life;
The one will live, the other being dead:
So of shame's ashes shall my fame be bred;
  For in my death I murder shameful scorn:
  My shame so dead, mine honour is newborn.

'Dear lord of that dear jewel I have lost,
What legacy shall I bequeath to thee?
My resolution, love, shall be thy boast,
By whose example thou revenged mayst be.
How Tarquin must be used, read it in me:
  Myself, thy friend, will kill myself, thy foe,
  And for my sake serve thou false Tarquin so.

'This brief abridgement of my will I make:
My soul and body to the skies and ground;
My resolution, husband, do thou take;
Mine honour be the knife's that makes my wound;
My shame be his that did my fame confound;
  And all my fame that lives disbursed be
  To those that live, and think no shame of me.

'Thou, Collatine, shalt oversee this will;
How was I overseen that thou shalt see it!
My blood shall wash the slander of mine ill;
My life's foul deed, my life's fair end shall free it.
Faint not, faint heart, but stoutly say "So be it:"
  Yield to my hand; my hand shall conquer thee:
  Thou dead, both die, and both shall victors be.'

This plot of death when sadly she had laid,
And wiped the brinish pearl from her bright eyes,
With untuned tongue she hoarsely calls her maid
Whose swift obedience to her mistress hies;
For fleet-wing'd duty with thought's feathers flies.
  Poor Lucrece' cheeks unto her maid seem so
  As winter meads when sun doth melt their snow.

Her mistress she doth give demure good-morrow,
With soft-slow tongue, true mark of modesty,
And sorts a sad look to her lady's sorrow,
For why her face wore sorrow's livery;
But durst not ask of her audaciously
  Why her two suns were cloud-eclipsed so,
  Nor why her fair cheeks over-wash'd with woe.

But as the earth doth weep, the sun being set,
Each flower moisten'd like a melting eye;
Even so the maid with swelling drops gan wet
Her circled eyne, enforced by sympathy
Of those fair suns set in her mistress' sky,
  Who in a salt-waved ocean quench their light,
  Which makes the maid weep like the dewy night.

A pretty while these pretty creatures stand,
Like ivory conduits coral cisterns filling:
One justly weeps; the other takes in hand
No cause, but company, of her drops spilling:
Their gentle sex to weep are often willing;
  Grieving themselves to guess at others' smarts,
  And then they drown their eyes or break their hearts.

For men have marble, women waxen, minds,
And therefore are they form'd as marble will;
The weak oppress'd, the impression of strange kinds
Is form'd in them by force, by fraud, or skill:
Then call them not the authors of their ill,
  No more than wax shall be accounted evil
  Wherein is stamp'd the semblance of a devil.


Their smoothness, like a goodly campaign plain,
Lays open all the little worms that creep;
In men, as in a rough-grown grove, remain
Cave-keeping evils that obscurely sleep:
Through crystal walls each little mote will peep:
  Though men can cover crimes with bold stern looks,
  Poor women's faces are their own faults' books.

No man inveigb against the wither'd flower,
But chide rough winter that the flower hath kill'd:
Not that devour'd, but that which doth devour,
Is worthy blame.  O, let it not be hild
Poor women's faults, that they are so fulfill'd
  With men's abuses: those proud lords, to blame,
  Make weak-made women tenants to their shame.

The precedent whereof in Lucrece view,
Assail'd by night with circumstances strong
Of present death, and shame that might ensue
By that her death, to do her husband wrong:
Such danger to resistance did belong;
  The dying fear through all her body spread;
  And who cannot abuse a body dead?

And oh!
how we wish you could come back! Rubens and
I."
My voice died away with a wail which was dismally echoed
by Rubens.
  Then, suddenly, in the darkness came a sob
  that was purely human, and I was clasped in a woman's arms, and
covered with tender kisses and soothing caresses.

For one wild moment, in my excitement, and the boundless faith of
childhood, I thought my mother had heard me, and come back.

                  
But it was only Nurse Bundle. She had been putting
away some clothes in my father's bedroom,
and had been drawn to the dressing-room by
hearing my voice.
  
  I think this scene decided her to take some active steps.

I feel convinced that in some way it was
through her influence that a letter of
invitation was despatched the following day to
Aunt Maria.

  
  CHAPTER IV

AUNT MARIA--THE ENEMY ROUTED--LONDON TOWN

Aunt Maria was my father's sister. She
was married to a wealthy gentleman, and
  had a large family of children. It was
  from her that we originally got Nurse Bundle; and anecdotes of her
and of my cousins, and wonderful accounts of London (where they
lived), had long figured conspicuously in Mrs.

Bundle's nursery chronicles.

Aunt Maria came, and Uncle Ascott came
with her.

  It is not altogether without a reason
  that I speak of them in this order.

Aunt Maria was the active partner of their
establishment. She was a clever, vigorous,
well-educated, inartistic, kindly, managing woman.
She was not exactly "meddling," but when she
thought it her duty to interfere in a
  matter, no delicacy of scruples, and no
  nervousness baulked the directness of her proceedings.

When she was most sweeping or uncompromising,
Uncle Ascott would say, "My dear
Maria!" But it was generally from a spasm
of nervous cowardice, and not from any
deliberate wish to interrupt Aunt
  Maria's course of action. He trusted her
  entirely.

Aunt Maria was very shrewd, and that long interview
with Nurse Bundle in her own room was hardly needed
to acquaint her with the condition of domestic
politics in our establishment. She "took in" the Burtons
  with one glance. The ladies "fell out" the following
  evening.

The Burtons left Dacrefield the next morning, and
at lunch Aunt Maria "pulled them to
pieces" with as little remorse as a
cook would pluck a partridge. I never saw
Miss Eliza Burton again.
  
  Aunt Maria did not fondle or spoil me.

She might perhaps have shown more tenderness
to her brother's only and motherless child;
but, after Miss Burton, hers was a fault
on the right side. She had a kindly interest
in me, and she showed it by asking me to pay
  her a visit in London.
  

"It will do the child good, Regie," she
said to my father. "He will be with other
children, and all our London sights will
be new to him. I will take every care of
him, and you must come up and fetch him
  back.
  It will do you good too."

"To be sure!" chimed in Uncle Ascott, patting me good-naturedly on
the head; "Master Reginald will fancy himself in Fairy Land. There
are the Zoological Gardens, and Madame Tussaud's Waxwork Exhibition,
and the Pantomime, and no one knows what besides! We shall make him
quite at home! He and Helen are just the same age, I think, and
Polly's a year or so younger, eh, mamma?"
"Nineteen months," said Aunt Maria, decisively; and she turned once
more to my father, upon whom she was urging certain particulars.
It was with unfeigned joy that I heard my father say,
"Well, thank you, Maria. I do think it will do him good. And I'll
certainly come and look you and Robert up myself."God wot, it was defect
Of spirit, life, and bold audacity.
Such harmless creatures have a true respect
To talk in deeds, while others saucily
Promise more speed, but do it leisurely:
  Even so this pattern of the worn-out age
  Pawn'd honest looks, but laid no words to gage.

His kindled duty kindled her mistrust,
That two red fires in both their faces blazed;
She thought he blushed, as knowing Tarquin's lust,
And, blushing with him, wistly on him gazed;
Her earnest eye did make him more amazed:
  The more saw the blood his cheeks replenish,
  The more she thought he spied in her some blemish.

But long she thinks till he return again,
And yet the duteous vassal scarce is gone.
The weary time she cannot entertain,
For now 'tis stale to sigh, to weep, to groan:
So woe hath wearied woe, moan tired moan,
  That she her plaints a little while doth stay,
  Pausing for means to mourn some newer way.

At last she calls to mind where hangs a piece
Of skilful painting, made for Priam's Troy;
Before the which is drawn the power of Greece,
For Helen's rape the city to destroy,
Threatening cloud-kissing Ilion with annoy;
  Which the conceited painter drew so proud,
  As heaven, it seem'd, to kiss the turrets bow'd.

A thousand lamentable objects there,
In scorn of nature, art gave lifeless life:
Many a dry drop seem'd a weeping tear,
Shed for the slaughter'd husband by the wife:
The red blood reek'd, to show the painter's strife;
  The dying eyes gleam'd forth their ashy lights,
  Like dying coals burnt out in tedious nights.

There might you see the labouring pioner
Begrimed with sweat, and smeared all with dust;
And from the towers of Troy there would appear
The very eyes of men through loop-holes thrust,
Gazing upon the Greeks with little lust:
  Such sweet observance in this work was had,
  That one might see those far-off eyes look sad.

In great commanders grace and majesty
You might behold, triumphing in their faces;
In youth, quick bearing and dexterity;
And here and there the painter interlaces
Pale cowards, marching on with trembling paces;
  Which heartless peasants did so well resemble,
  That one would swear he saw them quake and tremble.

In Ajax and Ulysses, O, what art
Of physiognomy might one behold!
The face of either cipher'd either's heart;
Their face their manners most expressly told:
In Ajax' eyes blunt rage and rigour roll'd;
  But the mild glance that sly Ulysses lent
  Show'd deep regard and smiling government.

There pleading might you see grave Nestor stand,
As 'twere encouraging the Greeks to fight;
Making such sober action with his hand,
That it beguiled attention, charm'd the sight:
In speech, it seem'd, his beard, all silver white,
  Wagg'd up and down, and from his lips did fly
  Thin winding breath, which curl'd up to the sky.

About him were a press of gaping faces,
Which seem'd to swallow up his sound advice;
All jointly listening, but with several graces,
As if some mermaid did their ears entice,
Some high, some low, the painter was so nice;
  The scalps of many, almost hid behind,
  To jump up higher seem'd, to mock the mind.

Here one man's hand lean'd on another's head,
His nose being shadow'd by his neighbour's ear,
Here one being throng'd bears back, all boll'n and red;
Another smother'd seems to pelt and swear;
And in their rage such signs of rage they bear,
  As, but for loss of Nestor's golden words,
  It seem'd they would debate with angry swords.

For much imaginary work was there;
Conceit deceitful, so compact, so kind,
That for Achilles' image stood his spear,
Griped in an armed hand; himself, behind,
Was left unseen, save to the eye of mind:
  A hand, a foot, a face, a leg, a head,
  Stood for the whole to be imagined,

And from the walls of strong-besieged Troy
When their brave hope, bold Hector, march'd to field,
Stood many Trojan mothers, sharing joy
To see their youthful sons bright weapons wield;
And to their hope they such odd action yield,
  That through their light joy seemed to appear,
  Like bright things stain'd, a kind of heavy fear,

And from the strand of Dardan, where they fought,
To Simois' reedy banks the red blood ran,
Whose waves to imitate the battle sought
With swelling ridges; and their ranks began
To break upon the galled shore, and than
  Retire again, till, meeting greater ranks,
  They join and shoot their foam at Simois' banks.

To this well-painted piece is Lucrece come,
To find a face where all distress is stell'd.
Many she sees where cares have carved some,
But none where  all  distress and dolour dwell'd,
Till she despairing Hecuba beheld,
  Staring on Priam's wounds with her old eyes,
  Which bleeding under Pyrrhus' proud foot lies.

In her the painter had anatomized
Time's ruin, beauty's wreck, and grim cares reign:
Her cheeks with chops and wrinkles were disguised;
Of what she was no semblance did remain:
Her blue blood changed to black in every vein,
  Wanting the spring that those shrunk pipes had fed,
  Show'd life imprison'd in a body dead.

On this sad shadow Lucrece spends her eyes,
And shapes her sorrow to the bedlam's woes,
Who nothing wants to answer her but cries,
And bitter words to ban her cruel foes:
The painter was no god to lend her those;
  And therefore Lucrece swears he did her wrong,
  To give her so much grief and not a tongue.

'Poor instrument,' quoth she, 'without a sound,
I'll tune thy woes with my lamenting tongue;
And drop sweet balm in Priam's painted wound,
And rail on Pyrrhus that hath done him wrong;
And with my tears quench Troy that burns so long;
  And with my knife scratch out the angry eyes
  Of all the Greeks that are thine enemies.

'Show me the strumpet that began this stir,
That with my nails her beauty I may tear.
Thy heat of lust, fond Paris, did incur
This load of wrath that burning Troy doth bear:
Thy eye kindled the fire that burneth here;
  And here in Troy, for trespass of thine eye,
  The sire, the son, the dame, and daughter die.

'Why should the private pleasure of some one
Become the public plague of many moe?
Let sin, alone committed, light alone
Upon his head that hath transgressed so;
Let guiltless souls be freed from guilty woe:
  For one's offence why should so many fall,
  To plague a private sin in general?

'Lo, here weeps Hecuba, here Priam dies,
Here manly Hector faints, here Troilus swounds,
Here friend by friend in bloody channel lies,
And friend to friend gives unadvised wounds,
And one man's lust these many lives confounds:
  Had doting Priam check'd his son's desire,
  Troy had been bright with fame and not with fire.'

Here feelingly she weeps Troy's painted woes:
For sorrow, like a heavy-hanging bell,
Once set on ringing, with his own weight goes;
Then little strength rings out the doleful knell:
So Lucrece, set a-work, sad tales doth tell
  To pencill'd pensiveness and colour'd sorrow:
  She lends them words, and she their looks doth borrow.

Miss Blomfield, will you kindly speak to Signor
Rigi when he comes to-morrow--"
"Certainly, Mrs. Ascott," interposed the
governess.

  "--about that piece of Maria's? She doesn't
  seem to get on with it a bit."

"No, Mrs. Ascott."
"And I'm sure she's been practising it for
a long time."
"Yes, Mrs. Ascott."
[Illustration: "Bless me, there's that dog!"]
  
  "Mr.

Ascott says it makes his hand quite unsteady
when he's shaving in the morning, to
hear her always break off at one place."

The lines of harass on Miss Blomfield's countenance
  deepened visibly, and her crochet-needle
  trembled in her hand, whilst a despondent stolidity settled on
Maria's face.

"Certainly, Mrs. Ascott. I'm very glad you've
spoken. Thank you for mentioning it, Mrs.
Ascott. It has distressed me very
greatly, and been a great trouble on my mind for
some time. I spoke very seriously to Maria last
  Sabbath on the subject" (symptoms of sniffling
  on poor Maria's part).

"I believe she wishes to do her duty,
and I may say I am anxious to do mine, in my
position. Of course, Mrs. Ascott, I know
you've a right to expect an improvement,
and I shall be most happy to rise half an hour
  earlier, so as to give her a longer practice than
  the other young ladies, and only consider it my duty as your
governess, Mrs.

Ascott. I've felt it a great trouble, for I cannot
imagine how it is that Maria does not improve
in her music as Jane does, and I give them equal
attention exactly; and what makes it more singular
still is that Maria is very good at her
  sums--I have no fault to find whatever. But
  I regret to say it is not the case with Jane.

I told her on Wednesday that I did not wish
to make any complaint; but I feel it
a duty, Mrs. Ascott, to let you know that
her marks for arithmetic are not what
you have a right to expect."
  Here Miss Blomfield paused and wiped her eyes.
  Not that she was weeping, but over and above her short-sightedness
she was troubled with a dimness of vision, which afflicted her more
at some times than others.

As she was in the habit of endeavouring to
counteract the evils of a too constantly
laborious and sedentary life, and of an
anxious and desponding temperament, by
large doses of calomel, her malady increased
  with painfully rapid strides. On this particular
  morning she had been busy since five o'clock, and neither she nor
the girls (who rose at six) had had anything to eat, and they were
all somewhat faint for want of a breakfast which was cooling on the
table.

Meanwhile a "humming in the head," to which _she_
was subject, rendered Maria mercifully
indifferent to the proposal to add an extra
half-hour to her distasteful labours;
and Miss Blomfield corrugated her eyebrows,
  and was conscientiously distressed and really puzzled
  that Mother Nature should give different gifts to her children,
when their mother and teachers according to the flesh were so
particular to afford them an equality of "advantages."

"Signor Rigi told me that Maria has not got
so good an ear as Jane," said Mrs. Ascott.
"However, perhaps it will be well to let Maria
practise half an hour, and Jane do
half an hour at her arithmetic on Saturday
  afternoons."
  "Certainly, Mrs. Ascott."

"And now," said my aunt, "I must introduce the
girls to Reginald. This is Maria, your eldest
cousin, and nearly double your age, for she is twelve.
This is Jane, two years younger. This is Helen;
she is nine, and as tall as Jane, you see. This is
  Harriet, eight. And this is Mary--Polly,
  as papa calls her--and she is nineteen months younger than you,
and a terrible tomboy already; so don't make her worse.

This is your cousin, girls, Reginald Dacre. You
must amuse him among you, and don't tease
him, for he is not used to children."
We "shook hands" all round, and I liked
Polly's hand the best. It was least
  froggy, cold, and spiritless.
  

Then Mrs. Ascott departed, and Maria
(overpowered by the humming) "flopped"
into her chair after a fashion that would
certainly have drawn a rebuke from Miss
Blomfield if an access of eye-dimness had not
  carried her to her own seat with
  little more grace.

Uncle Ascott had a large nose, and
my cousins were the image of him and of each other.
He hath no power to ask her how she fares:
  Both stood, like old acquaintance in a trance,
  Met far from home, wondering each other's chance.

At last he takes her by the bloodless hand,
And thus begins: 'What uncouth ill event
Hath thee befall'n, that thou dost trembling stand?
Sweet love, what spite hath thy fair colour spent?
Why art thou thus attired in discontent?
  Unmask, dear dear, this moody heaviness,
  And tell thy grief, that we may give redress.'

Three times with sighs she gives her sorrow fire,
Ere once she can discharge one word of woe:
At length address'd to answer his desire,
She modestly prepares to let them know
Her honour is ta'en prisoner by the foe;
  While Collatine and his consorted lords
  With sad attention long to hear her words.

And now this pale swan in her watery nest
Begins the sad dirge of her certain ending;
'Few words,' quoth she, 'shall fit the trespass best,
Where no excuse can give the fault amending:
In me moe woes than words are now depending;
  And my laments would be drawn out too long,
  To tell them all with one poor tired tongue.

'Then be this all the task it hath to say:
Dear husband, in the interest of thy bed
A stranger came, and on that pillow lay
Where thou wast wont to rest thy weary head;
And what wrong else may be imagined
  By foul enforcement might be done to me,
  From that, alas, thy Lucrece is not free.

'For in the dreadful dead of dark midnight,
With shining falchion in my chamber came
A creeping creature, with a flaming light,
And softly cried "Awake, thou Roman dame,
And entertain my love; else lasting shame
  On thee and thine this night I will inflict,
  If thou my love's desire do contradict.

'"For some hard-favour'd groom of thine," quoth he,
"Unless thou yoke thy liking to my will,
I'll murder straight, and then I'll slaughter thee
And swear I found you where you did fulfil
The loathsome act of lust, and so did kill
  The lechers in their deed: this act will be
  My fame and thy perpetual infamy."

"Oh, deliver me from a strong-minded lady!"
I cried. "Damer is quite welcome to her."
"Your one isn't a bit strong-minded,"
said Maria. "She is very pretty, but has
no will of her own at all. She leans
  completely on Frances; I don't know
  what she'll do when she marries, for they have been orphans since
they were quite children, and have never lived apart for a week."

At this point Polly broke in with even more
warmth and directness of speech than usual,

"Frances Chislett is the most superior girl I
ever knew. Men always laugh at strong-minded
  women; but I'm sure I don't know why. I can't
  think how any human being with duties and responsibilities can be
either more useful or more agreeable for being weak-minded."

And this was all that Polly contributed to
our nonsensical conversation about the
heiresses.

After she came I forsook the society of Maria.
  I knew now that she only wanted to talk
  to me about the Rector and the parish.

Besides, though Maria was strongly interested
in Dacrefield for Clerke's sake, she knew much
less of it than Polly, with whom I revisited
numberless haunts of our childhood, the
barns and stables, the fernery, the
  "Pulpit" and the "Pew."
  I did not tell her of my romance with Maria.

I was not proud of it.
But as we sat together in the old apple-room
above the stables, I confided to her
my "unfortunate attachment," which I had now
sufficiently recovered from not to be offended
  by her opinion, that it was all for the best
  that it had ended as it had.

I do not remember exactly how it was
that I came to know that Polly--even Polly--had
her own private heart-ache. I think I took
an unfair advantage of her strict
  truthfulness, when I once suspected that
  she had a secret, and insisted upon her confiding in me as I had
done in her.

Nurse Bundle gave me the first hint. Mrs.
Bundle, however, believed that "Miss Mary"
was only waiting for me to ask
her to be mistress of Dacrefield Hall. And though
she had "never seen the young lady that was good
  enough for her boy," she graciously allowed
  that I might "do worse than marry Miss Mary."

"My time's pretty near come, my dear," said Mrs.
Bundle, "but many's the time I pray the Lord
to let me live to put in if it is but a pin,
when your lady dresses for her wedding."
But I was not to be fooled a second
  time by the affectionate belief my friends
  had in my attractions.

"My dear old Nursey," said I, squatting
down with Sweep by her easy chair, "I know
what a dear girl Polly is, and if she
wanted to be Mrs.
  Dacre she soon should be. But you're quite mistaken
there; she is my dear sister, and always will be so, and never
anything else."

"Well, well," said Nurse Bundle, "young
folks know their own affairs better than the
old ones, and the Lord above knows what's
good for us all, but I'm a great
age, and the Squire's not young, and taking
  the liberty to name us together, my deary,
  in all reason it would be a blessing to him and me to see you happy
with a lady as fit to take your dear mother's place as Miss Mary is.

For let alone everything else, my dear,
servants is not what they used to be, and
when I'm dead you'll be cheated out of
house and home, without any one as knows what
goes to the keeping of a family, and what
  don't."
  "Well, Nursey," said I, "I'll try and find a lady to please you and
the governor.

But it won't be Polly, I know, and I wish it may
be any one as good."
I bullied poor Polly sadly about having a secret, and
not confiding it to me. She was far
from expert at dissembling, and never told
  an untruth, so I soon drove her into a corner.
  

"I'm rather disappointed, I must confess, in
one way," said I, having found her unable flatly
to deny that she did "care for" somebody.
"I always hoped, somehow, that you and Leo
would make it up together."
  "You heard what Maria said," said Polly, shortly.
  

"Oh, I don't believe in the heiress," said I,
"unless you've refused him. He'd never
take up with the blue-stocking lady and her
money-bags if his old love would have had
him."
  "I wish you wouldn't call her names," said Polly,
  angrily. "I tell you she's the best girl I ever knew.

I don't care much for most girls; they are so
silly. I suppose you'll say that's envy,
but I can't help it, it's true. But
Frances Chislett never bores me. She only
makes me ashamed of myself, and long to be like her. When she's
with me I feel rough, and ignorant, and useless, and--"
"What a soothing companion!" I broke in.

"Poor Damer!Some of her blood still pure and red remain'd,
  And some look'd black, and that false Tarquin stain'd.

About the mourning and congealed face
Of that black blood a watery rigol goes,
Which seems to weep upon the tainted place:
And ever since, as pitying Lucrece' woes,
Corrupted blood some watery token shows;
  And blood untainted still doth red abide,
  Blushing at that which is so putrified.

'Daughter, dear daughter,' old Lucretius cries,
'That life was mine which thou hast here deprived.
If in the child the father's image lies,
Where shall I live now Lucrece is unlived?
Thou wast not to this end from me derived
  If children pre-decease progenitors,
  We are their offspring, and they none of ours.

'Poor broken glass, I often did behold
In thy sweet semblance my old age new born;
But now that fair fresh mirror, dim and old,
Shows me a bare-boned death by time outworn:
O, from thy cheeks my image thou hast torn,
  And shiver'd all the beauty of my glass,
  That I no more can see what once I was!

'O time, cease thou thy course and last no longer,
If they surcease to be that should survive.
Shall rotten death make conquest of the stronger
And leave the faltering feeble souls alive?
The old bees die, the young possess their hive:
  Then live, sweet Lucrece, live again and see
  Thy father die, and not thy father thee!'

By this, starts Collatine as from a dream,
And bids Lucretius give his sorrow place;
And then in key-cold Lucrece' bleeding stream
He falls, and bathes the pale fear in his face,
And counterfeits to die with her a space;
  Till manly shame bids him possess his breath
  And live to be revenged on her death.

The deep vexation of his inward soul
Hath served a dumb arrest upon his tongue:
Who, mad that sorrow should his use control,
Or keep him from heart-easing words so long,
Begins to talk; but through his lips do throng
  Weak words, so thick come in his poor heart's aid,
  That no man could distinguish what he said.

Yet sometime 'Tarquin' was pronounced plain,
But through his teeth, as if the name he tore.
This windy tempest, till it blow up rain,
Held back his sorrow's tide, to make it more;
At last it rains, and busy winds give o'er:
  Then son and father weep with equal strife
  Who should weep most, for daughter or for wife.

The one doth call her his, the other his,
Yet neither may possess the claim they lay.
The father says 'She's mine.' 'O, mine she is,'
Replies her husband: 'do not take away
My sorrow's interest; let no mourner say
  He weeps for her, for she was only mine,
  And only must be wail'd by Collatine.'

'O,' quoth Lucretius, 'I did give that life
Which she too early and too late hath spill'd.'
'Woe, woe,' quoth Collatine, 'she was my wife,
I owed her, and 'tis mine that she hath kill'd.'
'My daughter' and 'my wife' with clamours fill'd
  The dispersed air, who, holding Lucrece' life,
  Answer'd their cries, 'my daughter' and 'my wife.'

Brutus, who pluck'd the knife from Lucrece' side,
Seeing such emulation in their woe,
Began to clothe his wit in state and pride,
Burying in Lucrece' wound his folly's show.
He with the Romans was esteemed so
  As silly-jeering idiots are with kings,
  For sportive words and uttering foolish things:

But now he throws that shallow habit by,
Wherein deep policy did him disguise;
And arm'd his long-hid wits advisedly,
To check the tears in Collatinus' eyes.
'Thou wronged lord of Rome,' quoth he, 'arise:
  Let my unsounded self, supposed a fool,
  Now set thy long-experienced wit to school.

Xenophon the Artist: the "kinsman" of Cyrus
again, and the light by-play to enliven the severe
history. The economic organising
genius of Cyrus is also brought out.
C2.25. No looting, an order of the Duke of Wellington, Napier,
Wolseley.

C2.32.Such childish humour from weak minds proceeds:
  Thy wretched wife mistook the matter so,
  To slay herself, that should have slain her foe.

'Courageous Roman, do not steep thy heart
In such relenting dew of lamentations;
But kneel with me and help to bear thy part,
To rouse our Roman gods with invocations,
That they will suffer these abominations,
  Since Rome herself in them doth stand disgraced,
  By our strong arms from forth her fair streets chased.

The aristocratic theory (cf. modern
English "nigger" theory, Anglo-Indian,
etc.).

C3.3. Xenophon's dramatic skill. We are made to
  feel the touch of something galling in the
  manner of these Median and Hyrcanian troopers.

C3.4.This said, he struck his hand upon his breast,
And kiss'd the fatal knife, to end his vow;
And to his protestation urged the rest,
Who, wondering at him, did his words allow:
Then jointly to the ground their knees they bow;
  And that deep vow, which Brutus made before,
  He doth again repeat, and that they swore.

It would have been premature then, now it
organically grows; and there's no great crisis
to pass through.

C3.11. I should have thought this was a
  dangerous argument; obviously boys do
  learn better than men certain things.

C3.12..