Produced by Harry Plantinga


THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY

A NIGHTMARE


by G. K. Chesterton


A WILD, MAD, HILARIOUS AND PROFOUNDLY MOVING TALE

It is very difficult to classify THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY. It is
possible to say that it is a gripping adventure story of murderous
criminals and brilliant policemen; but it was to be expected that the
author of the Father Brown stories should tell a detective story like
no-one else. On this level, therefore, THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY
succeeds superbly; if nothing else, it is a magnificent tour-de-force of
suspense-writing.

However, the reader will soon discover that it is much more than that.
The lovely creature was, however, entirely ignorant of my calling; and
whatever impression such a description would leave on the reader's
mind, it made none on mine, though in the second verse I was certainly
much pleased with the fair punster. I wish you saw the engraving!

W.H.H.

* * * * *

[Illustration: Kirkstall Abbey.]

The first page or frontispiece embellisment of the present Number
of the MIRROR illustrates one of the most recent triumphs of art;
and the above vignette is a fragment of the monastic splendour of
the twelfth century.

  Truly this is the _bathos_ of art. The plaster and paint of the
  _Colosseum_ are scarcely dry, and half the work is in embryo;
  whilst _Kirkstall_ is crumbling to dust, and reading
  us "sermons in stones:" we may well say,
  "Look here, upon this picture, and on this."
  
  Kirkstall Abbey is situated a short distance from Leeds, in
  the West Riding of Yorkshire. Its situation is one of the
  most picturesque that the children of romance can wish
  for, being in a beautiful vale, watered by the river Aire.
  It was of the Cistercian order, founded by Henry de Lacy
  in 1157, and valued at the dissolution at 329l. 2s.
  11d. Its rents are now worth 10,253l. 6s. 8d. The gateway
  has been walled up, and converted into a farm-house. The abbot's
  palace was on the south; the roof of the aisle is entirely
  gone; places for six altars, three on each side the high
  altar, appear by distinct chapels, but to what saints
  dedicated is not easy, at this time, to discover.

  The length of the church, from east to west, was 224 feet;
  the transept, from north to south, 118 feet. The tower, built
  in the time of Henry VIII., remained entire till January 27,
  1779, when three sides of it were blown down, and only the
  fourth remains. Part of an arched chamber, leading to the cemetery,
  and part of the dormitory, still remain. On the ceiling of a room
  in the gatehouse is inscribed,
  Mille et Quingentos postquam compleverit Orbis Tuq: et
  ter demos per sua signi Deus Prima sauluteferi post cunabula
  Christi, Cui datur omnium Honor, Gloria, Laus,
  et Amor.God and the good Republic come riding back in arms:
  We have seen the City of Mansoul, even as it rocked, relieved--
  Blessed are they who did not see, but being blind, believed.

  This is a tale of those old fears, even of those emptied hells,
  And none but you shall understand the true thing that it tells--
  Of what colossal gods of shame could cow men and yet crash,
  Of what huge devils hid the stars, yet fell at a pistol flash.
  The doubts that were so plain to chase, so dreadful to withstand--
  Oh, who shall understand but you; yea, who shall understand?
  The doubts that drove us through the night as we two talked amain,
  And day had broken on the streets e'er it broke upon the brain.
  Between us, by the peace of God, such truth can now be told;
  Yea, there is strength in striking root and good in growing old.
  We have found common things at last and marriage and a creed,
  And I may safely write it now, and you may safely read.

  G. K. C.


CHAPTER I. THE TWO POETS OF SAFFRON PARK

THE suburb of Saffron Park lay on the sunset side of London, as red and
ragged as a cloud of sunset. It was built of a bright brick throughout;
its sky-line was fantastic, and even its ground plan was wild. It had
been the outburst of a speculative builder, faintly tinged with art, who
called its architecture sometimes Elizabethan and sometimes Queen Anne,
apparently under the impression that the two sovereigns were identical.
It was described with some justice as an artistic colony, though
it never in any definable way produced any art. But although its
pretensions to be an intellectual centre were a little vague, its
pretensions to be a pleasant place were quite indisputable. The stranger
who looked for the first time at the quaint red houses could only think
how very oddly shaped the people must be who could fit in to them. Nor
when he met the people was he disappointed in this respect. The place
was not only pleasant, but perfect, if once he could regard it not as a
deception but rather as a dream. Even if the people were not "artists,"
the whole was nevertheless artistic. That young man with the long,
auburn hair and the impudent face--that young man was not really a poet;
but surely he was a poem. That old gentleman with the wild, white
beard and the wild, white hat--that venerable humbug was not really a
philosopher; but at least he was the cause of philosophy in others.
That scientific gentleman with the bald, egg-like head and the bare,
bird-like neck had no real right to the airs of science that he assumed.
He had not discovered anything new in biology; but what biological
creature could he have discovered more singular than himself? Thus, and
thus only, the whole place had properly to be regarded; it had to be
considered not so much as a workshop for artists, but as a frail but
finished work of art. A man who stepped into its social atmosphere felt
as if he had stepped into a written comedy.

More especially this attractive unreality fell upon it about nightfall,
when the extravagant roofs were dark against the afterglow and the whole
insane village seemed as separate as a drifting cloud. This again was
more strongly true of the many nights of local festivity, when the
little gardens were often illuminated, and the big Chinese lanterns
glowed in the dwarfish trees like some fierce and monstrous fruit.
And this was strongest of all on one particular evening, still vaguely
remembered in the locality, of which the auburn-haired poet was the
hero. It was not by any means the only evening of which he was the hero.
On many nights those passing by his little back garden might hear his
high, didactic voice laying down the law to men and particularly
to women. The attitude of women in such cases was indeed one of the
paradoxes of the place. Most of the women were of the kind vaguely
called emancipated, and professed some protest against male supremacy.
Yet these new women would always pay to a man the extravagant compliment
which no ordinary woman ever pays to him, that of listening while he
is talking. And Mr. Lucian Gregory, the red-haired poet, was really (in
some sense) a man worth listening to, even if one only laughed at the
end of it. He put the old cant of the lawlessness of art and the art
of lawlessness with a certain impudent freshness which gave at least a
momentary pleasure. He was helped in some degree by the arresting oddity
of his appearance, which he worked, as the phrase goes, for all it
was worth. His dark red hair parted in the middle was literally like a
woman's, and curved into the slow curls of a virgin in a pre-Raphaelite
picture. From within this almost saintly oval, however, his face
projected suddenly broad and brutal, the chin carried forward with a
look of cockney contempt. This combination at once tickled and terrified
the nerves of a neurotic population. He seemed like a walking blasphemy,
a blend of the angel and the ape.

This particular evening, if it is remembered for nothing else, will be
remembered in that place for its strange sunset. It looked like the
end of the world. All the heaven seemed covered with a quite vivid and
palpable plumage; you could only say that the sky was full of feathers,
and of feathers that almost brushed the face. Across the great part of
the dome they were grey, with the strangest tints of violet and mauve
and an unnatural pink or pale green; but towards the west the whole
grew past description, transparent and passionate, and the last red-hot
plumes of it covered up the sun like something too good to be seen. The
whole was so close about the earth, as to express nothing but a violent
secrecy. The very empyrean seemed to be a secret. It expressed that
splendid smallness which is the soul of local patriotism. The very sky
seemed small.

I say that there are some inhabitants who may remember the evening
if only by that oppressive sky. There are others who may remember it
because it marked the first appearance in the place of the second
poet of Saffron Park. For a long time the red-haired revolutionary had
reigned without a rival; it was upon the night of the sunset that his
solitude suddenly ended. The new poet, who introduced himself by the
name of Gabriel Syme was a very mild-looking mortal, with a fair,
pointed beard and faint, yellow hair. But an impression grew that he was
less meek than he looked. He signalised his entrance by differing with
the established poet, Gregory, upon the whole nature of poetry. He said
that he (Syme) was poet of law, a poet of order; nay, he said he was a
poet of respectability. So all the Saffron Parkers looked at him as if
he had that moment fallen out of that impossible sky.

In fact, Mr. Lucian Gregory, the anarchic poet, connected the two
events.

"It may well be," he said, in his sudden lyrical manner, "it may well be
on such a night of clouds and cruel colours that there is brought forth
upon the earth such a portent as a respectable poet. You say you are a
poet of law; I say you are a contradiction in terms. I only wonder
there were not comets and earthquakes on the night you appeared in this
garden."

The man with the meek blue eyes and the pale, pointed beard endured
these thunders with a certain submissive solemnity. The third party of
the group, Gregory's sister Rosamond, who had her brother's braids of
red hair, but a kindlier face underneath them, laughed with such mixture
of admiration and disapproval as she gave commonly to the family oracle.

Gregory resumed in high oratorical good humour.

"An artist is identical with an anarchist," he cried. "You might
transpose the words anywhere. An anarchist is an artist. The man
who throws a bomb is an artist, because he prefers a great moment to
everything. He sees how much more valuable is one burst of blazing
light, one peal of perfect thunder, than the mere common bodies of a few
shapeless policemen. An artist disregards all governments, abolishes all
conventions. The poet delights in disorder only. If it were not so, the
most poetical thing in the world would be the Underground Railway."

"So it is," said Mr. Syme.

"Nonsense!" said Gregory, who was very rational when anyone else
attempted paradox. "Why do all the clerks and navvies in the railway
trains look so sad and tired, so very sad and tired? I will tell you. It
is because they know that the train is going right. It is because they
know that whatever place they have taken a ticket for that place they
will reach. It is because after they have passed Sloane Square they know
that the next station must be Victoria, and nothing but Victoria. Oh,
their wild rapture! oh, their eyes like stars and their souls again in
Eden, if the next station were unaccountably Baker Street!"

"It is you who are unpoetical," replied the poet Syme. "If what you say
of clerks is true, they can only be as prosaic as your poetry. 

* * * * *
AMERICAN SONG BIRDS.

The _Mocking-bird_ seems to be the prince of all song birds, being
altogether unrivalled in the extent and variety of his vocal powers;
and, besides the fulness and melody of his original notes, he has the
faculty of imitating the notes of all other birds, from the humming-bird
to the eagle.

Pennant tells us that he heard a caged one, in England, imitate the
mewing of a cat and the creaking of a sign in high winds.

The Hon. Daines Barrington says, his pipe comes nearest to the nightingale,
of any bird he ever heard. The description, however, given by Wilson,
in his own inimitable manner, as far excels Pennant and Barrington as the
bird excels his fellow-songsters. Wilson tells that the ease, elegance
and rapidity of his movements, the animation of his eye, and the
intelligence he displays in listening and laying up lessons, mark the
peculiarity of his genius. His voice is full, strong, and musical,
and capable of almost every modulation, from the clear mellow tones of
the wood thrush to the savage scream of the bald eagle.

In measure and accents he faithfully follows his originals, while
in force and sweetness of expression he greatly improves upon them.

In his native woods, upon a dewy morning, his song rises above every
competitor, for the others seem merely as inferior accompaniments.
His own notes are bold and full, and varied seemingly beyond all
limits.
They consist of short expressions of two, three, or at most five
or six, syllables, generally expressed with great emphasis and
rapidity, and continued with undiminished ardour, for half an hour
or an hour at a time.

While singing, he expands his wings and his tail, glistening with white,
keeping time to his own music, and the buoyant gaiety of his action
is no less fascinating than his song. He sweeps round with enthusiastic
ecstasy, he mounts and descends as his song swells or dies away; he
bounds aloft, as Bartram says, with the celerity of an arrow, as if
to recover or recall his very soul, expired in the last elevated
strain.

A bystander might suppose that the whole feathered tribes had assembled
together on a trial of skill; each striving to produce his utmost
effect, so perfect are his imitations.

He often deceives the sportsman, and even birds themselves are sometimes
imposed upon by this admirable mimic. In confinement he loses little of
the power or energy of his song. He whistles for the dog; Cæsar
starts up, wags his tail, and runs to meet his master. He cries like
a hurt chicken, and the hen hurries about, with feathers on end,
to protect her injured brood.

He repeats the tune taught him, though it be of considerable length,
with great accuracy.

He runs over the notes of the canary, and of the red bird, with such
superior execution and effect, that the mortified songsters confess
his triumph by their silence.

His fondness for variety, some suppose to injure his song.

His imitations of the brown thrush is often interrupted by the
crowing of cocks; and his exquisite warblings after the blue bird,
are mingled with the screaming of swallows, or the cackling of hens.

During moonlight, both in the wild and tame state, he sings the
whole night long.

The hunters, in their night excursions, know that the moon is rising
the instant they begin to hear his delightful solo.

After Shakspeare, Barrington attributes in part the exquisiteness of the
nightingale's song to the silence of the night; but if so, what
are we to think of the bird which in the open glare of day, overpowers
and often silences all competition?

His natural notes partake of a character similar to those of the
brown thrush, but they are more sweet, more expressive, more varied,
and uttered with greater rapidity.

The _Yellow breasted Chat_ naturally follows his superior in the
art of mimicry.

When his haunt is approached, he scolds the passenger in a great
variety of odd and uncouth monosyllables, difficult to describe,
but easily imitated so as to deceive the bird himself, and draw him
after you to a good distance.

At first are heard short notes like the whistling of a duck's wings,
beginning loud and rapid, and becoming lower and slower, till they
end in detached notes.

There succeeds something like the barking of young puppies, followed
by a variety of guttural sounds, and ending like the mewing of a
cat, but much hoarser.

The song of the _Baltimore Oriole_ is little less remarkable than his
fine appearance, and the ingenuity with which he builds his nest.

She drew her broad brows together and said abruptly--

"He wouldn't really use--bombs or that sort of thing?"

Syme broke into a great laugh, that seemed too large for his slight and
somewhat dandified figure.

"Good Lord, no!" he said, "that has to be done anonymously."

And at that the corners of her own mouth broke into a smile, and she
thought with a simultaneous pleasure of Gregory's absurdity and of his
safety.

Syme strolled with her to a seat in the corner of the garden, and
continued to pour out his opinions. For he was a sincere man, and in
spite of his superficial airs and graces, at root a humble one. And
it is always the humble man who talks too much; the proud man watches
himself too closely. He defended respectability with violence and
exaggeration. He grew passionate in his praise of tidiness and
propriety. All the time there was a smell of lilac all round him. Once
he heard very faintly in some distant street a barrel-organ begin to
play, and it seemed to him that his heroic words were moving to a tiny
tune from under or beyond the world.

He stared and talked at the girl's red hair and amused face for what
seemed to be a few minutes; and then, feeling that the groups in such a
place should mix, rose to his feet. To his astonishment, he discovered
the whole garden empty. Everyone had gone long ago, and he went himself
with a rather hurried apology. He left with a sense of champagne in his
head, which he could not afterwards explain. In the wild events which
were to follow this girl had no part at all; he never saw her again
until all his tale was over. And yet, in some indescribable way, she
kept recurring like a motive in music through all his mad adventures
afterwards, and the glory of her strange hair ran like a red thread
through those dark and ill-drawn tapestries of the night. For what
followed was so improbable, that it might well have been a dream.

When Syme went out into the starlit street, he found it for the moment
empty. Then he realised (in some odd way) that the silence was rather a
living silence than a dead one. Directly outside the door stood a street
lamp, whose gleam gilded the leaves of the tree that bent out over the
fence behind him. About a foot from the lamp-post stood a figure almost
as rigid and motionless as the lamp-post itself. The tall hat and long
frock coat were black; the face, in an abrupt shadow, was almost as
dark. Only a fringe of fiery hair against the light, and also something
aggressive in the attitude, proclaimed that it was the poet Gregory. He
had something of the look of a masked bravo waiting sword in hand for
his foe.

He made a sort of doubtful salute, which Syme somewhat more formally
returned.

"I was waiting for you," said Gregory. "Might I have a moment's
conversation?"

"Certainly. About what?" asked Syme in a sort of weak wonder.

Gregory struck out with his stick at the lamp-post, and then at the
tree. "About this and this," he cried; "about order and anarchy. There
is your precious order, that lean, iron lamp, ugly and barren; and there
is anarchy, rich, living, reproducing itself--there is anarchy, splendid
in green and gold."

"All the same," replied Syme patiently, "just at present you only see
the tree by the light of the lamp. I wonder when you would ever see the
lamp by the light of the tree." Then after a pause he said, "But may I
ask if you have been standing out here in the dark only to resume our
little argument?"

"No," cried out Gregory, in a voice that rang down the street, "I did
not stand here to resume our argument, but to end it for ever."

The silence fell again, and Syme, though he understood nothing, listened
instinctively for something serious. Gregory began in a smooth voice and
with a rather bewildering smile.

"Mr. Syme," he said, "this evening you succeeded in doing something
rather remarkable. You did something to me that no man born of woman has
ever succeeded in doing before."

"Indeed!"

"Now I remember," resumed Gregory reflectively, "one other person
succeeded in doing it. The captain of a penny steamer (if I remember
correctly) at Southend. You have irritated me."

"I am very sorry," replied Syme with gravity.

"I am afraid my fury and your insult are too shocking to be wiped out
even with an apology," said Gregory very calmly. "No duel could wipe it
out. If I struck you dead I could not wipe it out. There is only one way
by which that insult can be erased, and that way I choose. I am going,
at the possible sacrifice of my life and honour, to prove to you that
you were wrong in what you said."

"In what I said?"

"You said I was not serious about being an anarchist."

"There are degrees of seriousness," replied Syme. "I have never doubted
that you were perfectly sincere in this sense, that you thought what you
said well worth saying, that you thought a paradox might wake men up to
a neglected truth."

Gregory stared at him steadily and painfully.

"And in no other sense," he asked, "you think me serious? You think me
a flaneur who lets fall occasional truths. You do not think that in a
deeper, a more deadly sense, I am serious."

Syme struck his stick violently on the stones of the road.

"Serious!" he cried. "Good Lord! is this street serious? Are these
damned Chinese lanterns serious? Is the whole caboodle serious? One
comes here and talks a pack of bosh, and perhaps some sense as well,
but I should think very little of a man who didn't keep something in
the background of his life that was more serious than all this
talking--something more serious, whether it was religion or only drink."

"Very well," said Gregory, his face darkening, "you shall see something
more serious than either drink or religion."

Syme stood waiting with his usual air of mildness until Gregory again
opened his lips.

"You spoke just now of having a religion. Is it really true that you
have one?"

"Oh," said Syme with a beaming smile, "we are all Catholics now."

"Then may I ask you to swear by whatever gods or saints your religion
involves that you will not reveal what I am now going to tell you to any
son of Adam, and especially not to the police? Will you swear that! If
you will take upon yourself this awful abnegation if you will consent
to burden your soul with a vow that you should never make and a
knowledge you should never dream about, I will promise you in return--"

"You will promise me in return?" inquired Syme, as the other paused.

"I will promise you a very entertaining evening." Syme suddenly took off
his hat.

"Your offer," he said, "is far too idiotic to be declined. You say that
a poet is always an anarchist. I disagree; but I hope at least that he
is always a sportsman. Permit me, here and now, to swear as a Christian,
and promise as a good comrade and a fellow-artist, that I will not
report anything of this, whatever it is, to the police. And now, in the
name of Colney Hatch, what is it?"

"I think," said Gregory, with placid irrelevancy, "that we will call a
cab."

He gave two long whistles, and a hansom came rattling down the road. The
two got into it in silence. Gregory gave through the trap the address
of an obscure public-house on the Chiswick bank of the river. The cab
whisked itself away again, and in it these two fantastics quitted their
fantastic town.


CHAPTER II. THE SECRET OF GABRIEL SYME

THE cab pulled up before a particularly dreary and greasy beershop, into
which Gregory rapidly conducted his companion. They seated themselves in
a close and dim sort of bar-parlour, at a stained wooden table with one
wooden leg. The room was so small and dark, that very little could
be seen of the attendant who was summoned, beyond a vague and dark
impression of something bulky and bearded.

"Will you take a little supper?" asked Gregory politely. "The pate de
foie gras is not good here, but I can recommend the game."

Syme received the remark with stolidity, imagining it to be a joke.
Accepting the vein of humour, he said, with a well-bred indifference--

"Oh, bring me some lobster mayonnaise."

To his indescribable astonishment, the man only said "Certainly, sir!"
and went away apparently to get it.

"What will you drink?" resumed Gregory, with the same careless yet
apologetic air. "I shall only have a crepe de menthe myself; I have
dined. But the champagne can really be trusted. Do let me start you with
a half-bottle of Pommery at least?"

"Thank you!" said the motionless Syme. "You are very good."

His further attempts at conversation, somewhat disorganised in
themselves, were cut short finally as by a thunderbolt by the actual
appearance of the lobster. Syme tasted it, and found it particularly
good. Then he suddenly began to eat with great rapidity and appetite.

"Excuse me if I enjoy myself rather obviously!" he said to Gregory,
smiling. "I don't often have the luck to have a dream like this. It is
new to me for a nightmare to lead to a lobster. It is commonly the other
way."

"You are not asleep, I assure you," said Gregory. "You are, on the
contrary, close to the most actual and rousing moment of your existence.
Ah, here comes your champagne! I admit that there may be a slight
disproportion, let us say, between the inner arrangements of this
excellent hotel and its simple and unpretentious exterior. But that is
all our modesty. We are the most modest men that ever lived on earth."

"And who are we?" asked Syme, emptying his champagne glass.

"It is quite simple," replied Gregory. "We are the serious anarchists,
in whom you do not believe."

"Oh!" said Syme shortly. "You do yourselves well in drinks."

"Yes, we are serious about everything," answered Gregory.

Then after a pause he added--

"If in a few moments this table begins to turn round a little, don't
put it down to your inroads into the champagne. I don't wish you to do
yourself an injustice."

"Well, if I am not drunk, I am mad," replied Syme with perfect calm;
"but I trust I can behave like a gentleman in either condition. May I
smoke?"

"Certainly!" said Gregory, producing a cigar-case. "Try one of mine."

Syme took the cigar, clipped the end off with a cigar-cutter out of his
waistcoat pocket, put it in his mouth, lit it slowly, and let out a long
cloud of smoke. It is not a little to his credit that he performed these
rites with so much composure, for almost before he had begun them the
table at which he sat had begun to revolve, first slowly, and then
rapidly, as if at an insane seance.

"You must not mind it," said Gregory; "it's a kind of screw."

"Quite so," said Syme placidly, "a kind of screw. How simple that is!"

The next moment the smoke of his cigar, which had been wavering across
the room in snaky twists, went straight up as if from a factory chimney,
and the two, with their chairs and table, shot down through the floor
as if the earth had swallowed them. They went rattling down a kind of
roaring chimney as rapidly as a lift cut loose, and they came with an
abrupt bump to the bottom. But when Gregory threw open a pair of doors
and let in a red subterranean light, Syme was still smoking with one leg
thrown over the other, and had not turned a yellow hair.

Gregory led him down a low, vaulted passage, at the end of which was
the red light. It was an enormous crimson lantern, nearly as big as a
fireplace, fixed over a small but heavy iron door. In the door there was
a sort of hatchway or grating, and on this Gregory struck five times. A
heavy voice with a foreign accent asked him who he was. To this he gave
the more or less unexpected reply, "Mr. Joseph Chamberlain." The heavy
hinges began to move; it was obviously some kind of password.

Inside the doorway the passage gleamed as if it were lined with a
network of steel. On a second glance, Syme saw that the glittering
pattern was really made up of ranks and ranks of rifles and revolvers,
closely packed or interlocked.

"I must ask you to forgive me all these formalities," said Gregory; "we
have to be very strict here."

"Oh, don't apologise," said Syme. "I know your passion for law and
order," and he stepped into the passage lined with the steel weapons.
With his long, fair hair and rather foppish frock-coat, he looked a
singularly frail and fanciful figure as he walked down that shining
avenue of death.

They passed through several such passages, and came out at last into a
queer steel chamber with curved walls, almost spherical in shape, but
presenting, with its tiers of benches, something of the appearance of
a scientific lecture-theatre. There were no rifles or pistols in this
apartment, but round the walls of it were hung more dubious and dreadful
shapes, things that looked like the bulbs of iron plants, or the eggs
of iron birds. They were bombs, and the very room itself seemed like the
inside of a bomb. Syme knocked his cigar ash off against the wall, and
went in.

"And now, my dear Mr. Syme," said Gregory, throwing himself in an
expansive manner on the bench under the largest bomb, "now we are quite
cosy, so let us talk properly. Now no human words can give you any
notion of why I brought you here. It was one of those quite arbitrary
emotions, like jumping off a cliff or falling in love. Suffice it to
say that you were an inexpressibly irritating fellow, and, to do you
justice, you are still. I would break twenty oaths of secrecy for the
pleasure of taking you down a peg. That way you have of lighting a cigar
would make a priest break the seal of confession. Well, you said that
you were quite certain I was not a serious anarchist. Does this place
strike you as being serious?"

"It does seem to have a moral under all its gaiety," assented Syme; "but
may I ask you two questions? You need not fear to give me information,
because, as you remember, you very wisely extorted from me a promise not
to tell the police, a promise I shall certainly keep. So it is in mere
curiosity that I make my queries. First of all, what is it really all
about? What is it you object to? You want to abolish Government?"

"To abolish God!" said Gregory, opening the eyes of a fanatic. "We do
not only want to upset a few despotisms and police regulations;
that sort of anarchism does exist, but it is a mere branch of the
Nonconformists. We dig deeper and we blow you higher. We wish to
deny all those arbitrary distinctions of vice and virtue, honour
and treachery, upon which mere rebels base themselves. The silly
sentimentalists of the French Revolution talked of the Rights of Man! We
hate Rights as we hate Wrongs. We have abolished Right and Wrong."

"And Right and Left," said Syme with a simple eagerness, "I hope you
will abolish them too. They are much more troublesome to me."

"You spoke of a second question," snapped Gregory.

"With pleasure," resumed Syme. "In all your present acts and
surroundings there is a scientific attempt at secrecy. I have an aunt
who lived over a shop, but this is the first time I have found people
living from preference under a public-house. You have a heavy iron door.
You cannot pass it without submitting to the humiliation of calling
yourself Mr. Chamberlain. You surround yourself with steel instruments
which make the place, if I may say so, more impressive than homelike.
May I ask why, after taking all this trouble to barricade yourselves in
the bowels of the earth, you then parade your whole secret by talking
about anarchism to every silly woman in Saffron Park?"

Gregory smiled.

"The answer is simple," he said. "I told you I was a serious anarchist,
and you did not believe me. Nor do they believe me. Unless I took them
into this infernal room they would not believe me."

Syme smoked thoughtfully, and looked at him with interest. Gregory went
on.

"The history of the thing might amuse you," he said. "When first I
became one of the New Anarchists I tried all kinds of respectable
disguises. I dressed up as a bishop. I read up all about bishops in our
anarchist pamphlets, in Superstition the Vampire and Priests of Prey. I
certainly understood from them that bishops are strange and terrible old
men keeping a cruel secret from mankind. I was misinformed. When on my
first appearing in episcopal gaiters in a drawing-room I cried out in
a voice of thunder, 'Down! down! presumptuous human reason!' they found
out in some way that I was not a bishop at all. I was nabbed at once.
Then I made up as a millionaire; but I defended Capital with so much
intelligence that a fool could see that I was quite poor. Then I tried
being a major. Now I am a humanitarian myself, but I have, I hope,
enough intellectual breadth to understand the position of those who,
like Nietzsche, admire violence--the proud, mad war of Nature and all
that, you know. I threw myself into the major. I drew my sword and waved
it constantly. I called out 'Blood!' abstractedly, like a man calling
for wine. I often said, 'Let the weak perish; it is the Law.' Well,
well, it seems majors don't do this. I was nabbed again. At last I went
in despair to the President of the Central Anarchist Council, who is the
greatest man in Europe."

"What is his name?" asked Syme.

"You would not know it," answered Gregory. "That is his greatness.
Caesar and Napoleon put all their genius into being heard of, and they
were heard of. He puts all his genius into not being heard of, and he
is not heard of. But you cannot be for five minutes in the room with him
without feeling that Caesar and Napoleon would have been children in his
hands."

He was silent and even pale for a moment, and then resumed--

"But whenever he gives advice it is always something as startling as
an epigram, and yet as practical as the Bank of England. I said to
him, 'What disguise will hide me from the world? What can I find more
respectable than bishops and majors?' He looked at me with his large but
indecipherable face. 'You want a safe disguise, do you? You want a dress
which will guarantee you harmless; a dress in which no one would ever
look for a bomb?' I nodded. He suddenly lifted his lion's voice. 'Why,
then, dress up as an anarchist, you fool!' he roared so that the room
shook. 'Nobody will ever expect you to do anything dangerous then.' And
he turned his broad back on me without another word. I took his advice,
and have never regretted it. I preached blood and murder to those
women day and night, and--by God!--they would let me wheel their
perambulators."

Syme sat watching him with some respect in his large, blue eyes.

"You took me in," he said. "It is really a smart dodge."

Then after a pause he added--

"What do you call this tremendous President of yours?"

"We generally call him Sunday," replied Gregory with simplicity. "You
see, there are seven members of the Central Anarchist Council, and they
are named after days of the week. He is called Sunday, by some of his
admirers Bloody Sunday. It is curious you should mention the matter,
because the very night you have dropped in (if I may so express it) is
the night on which our London branch, which assembles in this room, has
to elect its own deputy to fill a vacancy in the Council. The gentleman
who has for some time past played, with propriety and general applause,
the difficult part of Thursday, has died quite suddenly. Consequently,
we have called a meeting this very evening to elect a successor."

He got to his feet and strolled across the room with a sort of smiling
embarrassment.

"I feel somehow as if you were my mother, Syme," he continued casually.
"I feel that I can confide anything to you, as you have promised to tell
nobody. In fact, I will confide to you something that I would not say in
so many words to the anarchists who will be coming to the room in about
ten minutes. We shall, of course, go through a form of election; but I
don't mind telling you that it is practically certain what the result
will be." He looked down for a moment modestly. "It is almost a settled
thing that I am to be Thursday."

"My dear fellow." said Syme heartily, "I congratulate you. A great
career!"

Gregory smiled in deprecation, and walked across the room, talking
rapidly.

"As a matter of fact, everything is ready for me on this table," he
said, "and the ceremony will probably be the shortest possible."

Syme also strolled across to the table, and found lying across it a
walking-stick, which turned out on examination to be a sword-stick,
a large Colt's revolver, a sandwich case, and a formidable flask of
brandy. Over the chair, beside the table, was thrown a heavy-looking
cape or cloak.

"I have only to get the form of election finished," continued Gregory
with animation, "then I snatch up this cloak and stick, stuff these
other things into my pocket, step out of a door in this cavern, which
opens on the river, where there is a steam-tug already waiting for me,
and then--then--oh, the wild joy of being Thursday!" And he clasped his
hands.

Syme, who had sat down once more with his usual insolent languor, got to
his feet with an unusual air of hesitation.

"Why is it," he asked vaguely, "that I think you are quite a decent
fellow? Why do I positively like you, Gregory?" He paused a moment, and
then added with a sort of fresh curiosity, "Is it because you are such
an ass?"

There was a thoughtful silence again, and then he cried out--

"Well, damn it all! this is the funniest situation I have ever been in
in my life, and I am going to act accordingly. Gregory, I gave you a
promise before I came into this place. That promise I would keep under
red-hot pincers. Would you give me, for my own safety, a little promise
of the same kind?"

"A promise?" asked Gregory, wondering.

"Yes," said Syme very seriously, "a promise. I swore before God that I
would not tell your secret to the police. Will you swear by Humanity, or
whatever beastly thing you believe in, that you will not tell my secret
to the anarchists?"

"Your secret?" asked the staring Gregory. "Have you got a secret?"

"Yes," said Syme, "I have a secret." Then after a pause, "Will you
swear?"

Gregory glared at him gravely for a few moments, and then said
abruptly--

"You must have bewitched me, but I feel a furious curiosity about you.
Yes, I will swear not to tell the anarchists anything you tell me. But
look sharp, for they will be here in a couple of minutes."

Syme rose slowly to his feet and thrust his long, white hands into his
long, grey trousers' pockets. Almost as he did so there came five
knocks on the outer grating, proclaiming the arrival of the first of the
conspirators.

"Well," said Syme slowly, "I don't know how to tell you the truth more
shortly than by saying that your expedient of dressing up as an aimless
poet is not confined to you or your President. We have known the dodge
for some time at Scotland Yard."

Gregory tried to spring up straight, but he swayed thrice.

"What do you say?" he asked in an inhuman voice.

"Yes," said Syme simply, "I am a police detective. But I think I hear
your friends coming."

From the doorway there came a murmur of "Mr. Joseph Chamberlain." It
was repeated twice and thrice, and then thirty times, and the crowd of
Joseph Chamberlains (a solemn thought) could be heard trampling down the
corridor.


CHAPTER III. THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY

BEFORE one of the fresh faces could appear at the doorway, Gregory's
stunned surprise had fallen from him. He was beside the table with a
bound, and a noise in his throat like a wild beast. He caught up the
Colt's revolver and took aim at Syme. Syme did not flinch, but he put up
a pale and polite hand.

"Don't be such a silly man," he said, with the effeminate dignity of a
curate. "Don't you see it's not necessary? Don't you see that we're both
in the same boat? Yes, and jolly sea-sick."

Gregory could not speak, but he could not fire either, and he looked his
question.

"Don't you see we've checkmated each other?" cried Syme. "I can't tell
the police you are an anarchist. You can't tell the anarchists I'm a
policeman. I can only watch you, knowing what you are; you can only
watch me, knowing what I am. In short, it's a lonely, intellectual
duel, my head against yours. I'm a policeman deprived of the help of the
police. You, my poor fellow, are an anarchist deprived of the help of
that law and organisation which is so essential to anarchy. The one
solitary difference is in your favour. You are not surrounded by
inquisitive policemen; I am surrounded by inquisitive anarchists. I
cannot betray you, but I might betray myself. Come, come! wait and see
me betray myself. I shall do it so nicely."

Gregory put the pistol slowly down, still staring at Syme as if he were
a sea-monster.

"I don't believe in immortality," he said at last, "but if, after all
this, you were to break your word, God would make a hell only for you,
to howl in for ever."

"I shall not break my word," said Syme sternly, "nor will you break
yours. Here are your friends."

The mass of the anarchists entered the room heavily, with a slouching
and somewhat weary gait; but one little man, with a black beard and
glasses--a man somewhat of the type of Mr. Tim Healy--detached himself,
and bustled forward with some papers in his hand.

"Comrade Gregory," he said, "I suppose this man is a delegate?"

Gregory, taken by surprise, looked down and muttered the name of Syme;
but Syme replied almost pertly--

"I am glad to see that your gate is well enough guarded to make it hard
for anyone to be here who was not a delegate."

The brow of the little man with the black beard was, however, still
contracted with something like suspicion.

"What branch do you represent?" he asked sharply.

"I should hardly call it a branch," said Syme, laughing; "I should call
it at the very least a root."

"What do you mean?"

"The fact is," said Syme serenely, "the truth is I am a Sabbatarian. I
have been specially sent here to see that you show a due observance of
Sunday."

The little man dropped one of his papers, and a flicker of fear went
over all the faces of the group. sang Shorty, in the shrill cow dialect.
He made Pedro play an exhibition game of speed, bringing him round close
to Balaam in a wide circle, and then he vanished in dust down the
left-bank trail.

Balaam looked after him and laughed harshly. He had seen trout dash about
like that when the hook in their jaw first surprised them.

He knew Shorty would show the pony off, and he knew Shorty's love for
Pedro was not equal to his need of money.

He called to one of his men, asked something about the dam at the mouth
of the canyon, where the main irrigation ditch began, made a remark
about the prolonged drought, and then walked to his dining-room door,
where, as he expected, Shorty met him.

"Say," said the youth, "do you consider that's any way to talk about a
good horse?"
"Any dude could see the leg's sprung," said Balaam. But he looked
at Pedro's shoulder, which was well laid back; and he admired his
points, dark in contrast with the buckskin, and also the width between
the eyes.

"Now you know," whined Shorty, "that it ain't sprung any more
than your leg's cork.

If you mean the right leg ain't plumb straight, I can tell you he was born
so. That don't make no difference, for it ain't weak.

Try him onced. Just as sound and strong as iron. Never stumbles. And he
don't never go to jumpin' with yu'.

He's kind and he's smart." And the master petted his pony, who lifted
a hoof for another handshake.

Of course Balaam had never thought the leg was sprung, and he now took
on an unprejudiced air of wanting to believe Shorty's statements if
he only could.

"Maybe there's two years' work left in that leg," he now observed.

"Better give your hawss away, Shorty," said the Virginian.

"Is this your deal, my friend?" inquired Balaam. And he slanted his
bullet head at the Virginian.

"Give him away, Shorty," drawled the Southerner. "His laig is busted.

Mr. Balaam says so."
Balaam's face grew evil with baffled fury. But the Virginian was
gravely considering Pedro. He, too, was not pleased. But he could not
interfere.

Already he had overstepped the code in these matters. He would have
dearly liked--for reasons good and bad, spite and mercy mingled--to
have spoiled Balaam's market, to have offered a reasonable or even an
unreasonable price for Pedro, and taken possession of the horse
himself.

But this might not be. In bets, in card games, in all horse transactions
and other matters of similar business, a man must take care of
himself, and wiser onlookers must suppress their wisdom and hold
their peace.

That evening Shorty again had a cigar.

He had parted with Pedro for forty dollars, a striped Mexican
blanket, and a pair of spurs.

Undressing over in the bunk house, he said to the Virginian, "I'll sure
buy Pedro back off him just as soon as ever I rustle some cash."

The Virginian grunted. He was thinking he should have to travel hard to
get the horses to the Judge by the 30th; and below that thought lay his
aching disappointment and his longing for Bear Creek.

In the early dawn Shorty sat up among his blankets on the floor of the
bunk house and saw the various sleepers coiled or sprawled in their
beds; their breathing had not yet grown restless at the nearing of day.

He stepped to the door carefully, and saw the crowding blackbirds
begin their walk and chatter in the mud of the littered and trodden
corrals.
From beyond among the cotton woods, came continually the smooth unemphatic
sound of the doves answering each other invisibly; and against the
empty ridge of the river-bluff lay the moon, no longer shining, for
there was established a new light through the sky.

Pedro stood in the pasture close to the bars. The cowboy slowly closed
the door behind him, and sitting down on the step, drew his money out
and idly handled it, taking no comfort just then from its possession.
Then he put it back, and after dragging on his boots, crossed to the
pasture, and held a last talk with his pony, brushing the cakes of mud
from his hide where he had rolled, and passing a lingering hand over his
mane. As the sounds of the morning came increasingly from tree and plain,
Shorty glanced back to see that no one was yet out of the cabin, and
then put his arms round the horse's neck, laying his head against him.
For a moment the cowboy's insignificant face was exalted by the emotion
he would never have let others see. He hugged tight this animal, who
was dearer to his heart than anybody in the world.

"Good-by, Pedro," he said--"good-by." Pedro looked for bread.

"No," said his master, sorrowfully, "not any more. Yu' know well I'd give
it yu' if I had it. You and me didn't figure on this, did we, Pedro?
Good-by!"
He hugged his pony again, and got as far as the bars of the pasture, but
returned once more. "Good-by, my little horse, my dear horse, my little,
little Pedro," he said, as his tears wet the pony's neck. Then he
wiped them with his hand, and got himself back to the bunk house.
After breakfast he and his belongings departed to Drybone, and Pedro
from his field calmly watched this departure; for horses must
recognize even less than men the black corners that their destinies
turn.

The pony stopped feeding to look at the mail-wagon pass by; but the
master sitting in the wagon forebore to turn his head.

XXVI. BALAAM AND PEDRO

Resigned to wait for the Judge's horses, Balaam went into his office
this dry, bright morning and read nine accumulated newspapers; for
he was behindhand. Then he rode out on the ditches, and met his man
returning with the troublesome animals at last. He hastened home and
sent for the Virginian. He had made a decision.

"See here," he said; "those horses are coming.

What trail would you take over to the Judge's?"

"Shortest trail's right through the Bow Laig Mountains," said the
foreman, in his gentle voice.

"Guess you're right. It's dinner-time.

We'll start right afterward.
We'll make Little Muddy Crossing by sundown, and Sunk Creek to-morrow,
and the next day'll see us through.

Can a wagon get through Sunk Creek Canyon?"

The Virginian smiled. "I reckon it can't, seh, and stay resembling a
wagon."
Balaam told them to saddle Pedro and one packhorse, and drive the
bunch of horses into a corral, roping the Judge's two, who proved
extremely wild. He had decided to take this journey himself on
remembering certain politics soon to be rife in Cheyenne. For
Judge Henry was indeed a greater man than Balaam.

This personally conducted return of the horses would temper its tardiness,
and, moreover, the sight of some New York visitors would be a good thing
after seven months of no warmer touch with that metropolis than
the Sunday HERALD, always eight days old when it reached the Butte
Creek Ranch.

They forded Butte Creek, and, crossing the well-travelled trail
which follows down to Drybone, turned their faces toward the
uninhabited country that began immediately, as the ocean begins off
a sandy shore.

And as a single mast on which no sail is shining stands at the horizon
and seems to add a loneliness to the surrounding sea, so the long
gray line of fence, almost a mile away, that ended Balaam's land on this
side the creek, stretched along the waste ground and added desolation
to the plain.

No solitary watercourse with margin of cottonwoods or willow thickets
flowed here to stripe the dingy, yellow world with interrupting
green, nor were cattle to be seen dotting the distance, nor moving
objects at all, nor any bird in the soundless air.

The last gate was shut by the Virginian, who looked back at the pleasant
trees of the ranch, and then followed on in single file across the
alkali of No Man's Land.

No cloud was in the sky.

The desert's grim noon shone sombrely on flat and hill. The sagebrush
was dull like zinc. Thick heat rose near at hand from the caked alkali,
and pale heat shrouded the distant peaks.

There were five horses. Balaam led on Pedro, his squat figure stiff in
the saddle, but solid as a rock, and tilted a little forward, as his habit
was. One of the Judge's horses came next, a sorrel, dragging back
continually on the rope by which he was led. After him ambled Balaam's
wise pack-animal, carrying the light burden of two days' food and
lodging. She was an old mare who could still go when she chose, but
had been schooled by the years, and kept the trail, giving no trouble
to the Virginian who came behind her.

He also sat solid as a rock, yet subtly bending to the struggles of
the wild horse he led, as a steel spring bends and balances and
resumes its poise.

Thus they made but slow time, and when they topped the last dull rise of
ground and looked down on the long slant of ragged, caked earth to the
crossing of Little Muddy, with its single tree and few mean bushes,
the final distance where eyesight ends had deepened to violet from
the thin, steady blue they had stared at for so many hours, and all
heat was gone from the universal dryness.

The horses drank a long time from the sluggish yellow water, and its
alkaline taste and warmth were equally welcome to the men. They built a
little fire, and when supper was ended, smoked but a short while
and in silence, before they got in the blankets that were spread
in a smooth place beside the water.

They had picketed the two horses of the Judge in the best grass
they could find, letting the rest go free to find pasture where
they could.

When the first light came, the Virginian attended to breakfast, while
Balaam rode away on the sorrel to bring in the loose horses.

They had gone far out of sight, and when he returned with them, after
some two hours, he was on Pedro. Pedro was soaking with sweat, and red
froth creamed from his mouth. The Virginian saw the horses must have
been hard to drive in, especially after Balaam brought them the wild
sorrel as a leader.

"If you'd kep' ridin' him, 'stead of changin' off on your hawss, they'd
have behaved quieter," said the foreman.

"That's good seasonable advice," said Balaam, sarcastically. "I could
have told you that now."
"I could have told you when you started," said the Virginian, heating the
coffee for Balaam.

Balaam was eloquent on the outrageous conduct of the horses.

He had come up with them evidently striking back for Butte Creek, with the
old mare in the lead.

"But I soon showed her the road she was to go," he said, as he drove them
now to the water.

The Virginian noticed the slight limp of the mare, and how her
pastern was cut as if with a stone or the sharp heel of a boot.

"I guess she'll not be in a hurry to travel except when she's wanted
to," continued Balaam.

He sat down, and sullenly poured himself some coffee. "We'll be in luck
if we make any Sunk Creek this night."

He went on with his breakfast, thinking aloud for the benefit of
his companion, who made no comments, preferring silence to the discomfort
of talking with a man whose vindictive humor was so thoroughly
uppermost.
He did not even listen very attentively, but continued his preparations
for departure, washing the dishes, rolling the blankets, and moving
about in his usual way of easy and visible good nature.

"Six o'clock, already," said Balaam, saddling the horses. "And
we'll not get started for ten minutes more." Then he came to Pedro. "So
you haven't quit fooling yet, haven't you?"

he exclaimed, for the pony shrank as he lifted the bridle.

"Take that for your sore mouth!" and he rammed the bit in, at which Pedro
flung back and reared.

"Well, I never saw Pedro act that way yet," said the Virginian.

"Ah, rubbish!" said Balaam. "They're all the same. Not a bastard one
but's laying for his chance to do for you. Some'll buck you off, and
some'll roll with you, and some'll fight you with their fore feet.
They may play good for a year, but the Western pony's man's enemy, and
when he judges he's got his chance, he's going to do his best.

And if you come out alive it won't be his fault."

Balaam paused for a while, packing. "You've got to keep them afraid of
you," he said next; "that's what you've got to do if you don't want
trouble. That Pedro horse there has been fed, hand-fed, and fooled with
like a damn pet, and what's that policy done?

Why, he goes ugly when he thinks it's time, and decides he'll not drive
any horses into camp this morning. He knows better now."

"Mr. Balaam," said the Virginian, "I'll buy that hawss off yu' right
now."

Balaam shook his head. "You'll not do that right now or any other
time," said he. "I happen to want him."

The Virginian could do no more.

He had heard cow-punchers say to refractory ponies, "You keep still,
or I'll Balaam you!"

and he now understood the aptness of the expression.

Meanwhile Balaam began to lead Pedro to the creek for a last drink
before starting across the torrid drought.

The horse held back on the rein a little, and Balaam turned and cut
the whip across his forehead.
A delay of forcing and backing followed, while the Virginian, already
in the saddle, waited. The minutes passed, and no immediate prospect,
apparently, of getting nearer Sunk Creek.

"He ain' goin' to follow you while you're beatin' his haid," the Southerner
at length remarked.

"Do you think you can teach me anything about horses?" retorted
Balaam.

"Well, it don't look like I could," said the Virginian, lazily.

"Then don't try it, so long as it's not your horse, my friend."
Again the Southerner levelled his eye on Balaam. "All right," he said, in
the same gentle voice. "And don't you call me your friend. You've made
that mistake twiced."
The road was shadeless, as it had been from the start, and they
could not travel fast.

During the first few hours all coolness was driven out of the glassy
morning, and another day of illimitable sun invested the world
with its blaze.

The pale Bow Leg Range was coming nearer, but its hard hot slants and rifts
suggested no sort of freshness, and even the pines that spread for
wide miles along near the summit counted for nothing in the distance
and the glare, but seemed mere patches of dull dry discoloration.

No talk was exchanged between the two travellers, for the cow-puncher had
nothing to say and Balaam was sulky, so they moved along in silent
endurance of each other's company and the tedium of the journey.

But the slow succession of rise and fall in the plain changed and
shortened. The earth's surface became lumpy, rising into mounds and
knotted systems of steep small hills cut apart by staring gashes of sand,
where water poured in the spring from the melting snow.

After a time they ascended through the foot-hills till the plain below
was for a while concealed, but came again into view in its entirety,
distant and a thing of the past, while some magpies sailed down to
meet them from the new country they were entering. They passed up
through a small transparent forest of dead trees standing stark and
white, and a little higher came on a line of narrow moisture that crossed
the way and formed a stale pool among some willow thickets.

They turned aside to water their horses, and found near the pool a
circular spot of ashes and some poles lying, and beside these a
cage-like edifice of willow wands built in the ground.

"Indian camp," observed the Virginian.

There were the tracks of five or six horses on the farther side of
the pool, and they did not come into the trail, but led off among
the rocks on some system of their own.

"They're about a week old," said Balaam. "It's part of that outfit that's
been hunting."
"They've gone on to visit their friends," added the cow-puncher.

"Yes, on the Southern Reservation. How far do you call Sunk Creek now?"

"Well," said the Virginian, calculating, "it's mighty nigh fo'ty
miles from Muddy Crossin', an' I reckon we've come eighteen."

"Just about. It's noon." Balaam snapped his watch shut. "We'll rest
here till 12:30."

When it was time to go, the Virginian looked musingly at the mountains.

"We'll need to travel right smart to get through the canyon to-night,"
he said.

"Tell you what," said Balaam; "we'll rope the Judge's horses together
and drive 'em in front of us.

That'll make speed."
"Mightn't they get away on us?"

objected the Virginian. "They're pow'ful wild."
"They can't get away from me, I guess," said Balaam, and the arrangement
was adopted. "We're the first this season over this piece of the
trail," he observed presently.

His companion had noticed the ground already, and assented.

There were no tracks anywhere to be seen over which winter had not come
and gone since they had been made.

Presently the trail wound into a sultry gulch that hemmed in the
heat and seemed to draw down the sun's rays more vertically.

The sorrel horse chose this place to make a try for liberty.
He suddenly whirled from the trail, dragging with him his less inventive
fellow. Leaving the Virginian with the old mare, Balaam headed them
off, for Pedro was quick, and they came jumping down the bank
together, but swiftly crossed up on the other side, getting much
higher before they could be reached. It was no place for this
sort of game, as the sides of the ravine were ploughed with steep
channels, broken with jutting knobs of rock, and impeded by short twisted
pines that swung out from their roots horizontally over the pitch
of the hill. The Virginian helped, but used his horse with more
judgment, keeping as much on the level as possible, and endeavoring to
anticipate the next turn of the runaways before they made it, while
Balaam attempted to follow them close, wheeling short when they
doubled, heavily beating up the face of the slope, veering again to come
down to the point he had left, and whenever he felt Pedro
begin to flag, driving his spurs into the horse and forcing him
to keep up the pace. He had set out to overtake and capture on the side
of the mountain these two animals who had been running wild for
many weeks, and now carried no weight but themselves, and the
futility of such work could not penetrate his obstinate and rising
temper.

He had made up his mind not to give in. The Virginian soon decided to
move slowly along for the present, preventing the wild horses from passing
down the gulch again, but otherwise saving his own animal from useless
fatigue. He saw that Pedro was reeking wet, with mouth open, and
constantly stumbling, though he galloped on. The cow-puncher kept the
group in sight, driving the packhorse in front of him, and watching the
tactics of the sorrel, who had now undoubtedly become the leader of the
expedition, and was at the top of the gulch, in vain trying to find an
outlet through its rocky rim to the levels above. He soon judged
this to be no thoroughfare, and changing his plan, trotted down to
the bottom and up the other side, gaining more and more; for in this
new descent Pedro had fallen twice. Then the sorrel showed the cleverness
of a genuinely vicious horse.

The Virginian saw him stop and fall to kicking his companion with all
the energy that a short rope would permit. The rope slipped, and both,
unencumbered, reached the top and disappeared. Leaving the packhorse
for Balaam, the Virginian started after them and came into a high
tableland, beyond which the mountains began in earnest. The runaways were
moving across toward these at an easy rate. He followed for a moment,
then looking back, and seeing no sign of Balaam, waited, for the horses
were sure not to go fast when they reached good pasture or water.

He got out of the saddle and sat on the ground, watching, till the mare
came up slowly into sight, and Balaam behind her. When they were
near, Balaam dismounted and struck Pedro fearfully, until the
stick broke, and he raised the splintered half to continue.

Seeing the pony's condition, the Virginian spoke, and said, "I'd
let that hawss alone."

Balaam turned to him, but wholly possessed by passion did not
seem to hear, and the Southerner noticed how white and like that of a
maniac his face was. The stick slid to the ground.

"He played he was tired," said Balaam, looking at the Virginian with
glazed eyes. The violence of his rage affected him physically, like some
stroke of illness. "He played out on me on purpose." The man's voice
was dry and light. "He's perfectly fresh now," he continued, and turned
again to the coughing, swaying horse, whose eyes were closed. Not
having the stick, he seized the animal's unresisting head and shook
it. The Virginian watched him a moment, and rose to stop such a
spectacle. Then, as if conscious he was doing no real hurt, Balaam
ceased, and turning again in slow fashion looked across the level,
where the runaways were still visible.
"I'll have to take your horse," he said, "mine's played out on me."
"You ain' goin' to touch my hawss."
Again the words seemed not entirely to reach Balaam's understanding,
so dulled by rage were his senses. He made no answer, but mounted
Pedro; and the failing pony walked mechanically forward, while the
Virginian, puzzled, stood looking after him. Balaam seemed without
purpose of going anywhere, and stopped in a moment. Suddenly he was
at work at something.
This sight was odd and new to look at. For a few seconds it had no
meaning to the Virginian as he watched. Then his mind grasped the
horror, too late. Even with his cry of execration and the tiger
spring that he gave to stop Balaam, the monstrosity was wrought.
Pedro sank motionless, his head rolling flat on the earth. Balaam
was jammed beneath him. The man had struggled to his feet before
the Virginian reached the spot, and the horse then lifted his head
and turned it piteously round.
Then vengeance like a blast struck Balaam. The Virginian hurled him
to the ground, lifted and hurled him again, lifted him and beat his
face and struck his jaw. The man's strong ox-like fighting availed
nothing.Syme, at a crisis of his morbid fears for humanity, seemed stung by the
mere stolidity of the automatic official, a mere bulk of blue in the
twilight.

"A good evening is it?" he said sharply. "You fellows would call the end
of the world a good evening. Look at that bloody red sun and that bloody
river! I tell you that if that were literally human blood, spilt and
shining, you would still be standing here as solid as ever, looking out
for some poor harmless tramp whom you could move on. You policemen are
cruel to the poor, but I could forgive you even your cruelty if it were
not for your calm."

"If we are calm," replied the policeman, "it is the calm of organised
resistance."

"Eh?" said Syme, staring.

"The soldier must be calm in the thick of the battle," pursued the
policeman. "The composure of an army is the anger of a nation."

"Good God, the Board Schools!" said Syme. "Is this undenominational
education?"

"No," said the policeman sadly, "I never had any of those advantages.
The Board Schools came after my time. What education I had was very
rough and old-fashioned, I am afraid."

"Where did you have it?" asked Syme, wondering.

"Oh, at Harrow," said the policeman

The class sympathies which, false as they are, are the truest things in
so many men, broke out of Syme before he could control them.

"But, good Lord, man," he said, "you oughtn't to be a policeman!"

The policeman sighed and shook his head.

"I know," he said solemnly, "I know I am not worthy."

"But why did you join the police?" asked Syme with rude curiosity.

"For much the same reason that you abused the police," replied the
other. "I found that there was a special opening in the service
for those whose fears for humanity were concerned rather with the
aberrations of the scientific intellect than with the normal and
excusable, though excessive, outbreaks of the human will. I trust I make
myself clear."

"If you mean that you make your opinion clear," said Syme, "I suppose
you do. But as for making yourself clear, it is the last thing you do.
How comes a man like you to be talking philosophy in a blue helmet on
the Thames embankment?"

"You have evidently not heard of the latest development in our police
system," replied the other. "I am not surprised at it. We are keeping it
rather dark from the educated class, because that class contains most
of our enemies. But you seem to be exactly in the right frame of mind. I
think you might almost join us."

"Join you in what?" asked Syme.

"I will tell you," said the policeman slowly. "This is the situation:
The head of one of our departments, one of the most celebrated
detectives in Europe, has long been of opinion that a purely
intellectual conspiracy would soon threaten the very existence of
civilisation. He is certain that the scientific and artistic worlds are
silently bound in a crusade against the Family and the State. He has,
therefore, formed a special corps of policemen, policemen who are also
philosophers. It is their business to watch the beginnings of this
conspiracy, not merely in a criminal but in a controversial sense. I am
a democrat myself, and I am fully aware of the value of the ordinary
man in matters of ordinary valour or virtue. But it would obviously be
undesirable to employ the common policeman in an investigation which is
also a heresy hunt."

Syme's eyes were bright with a sympathetic curiosity.

"What do you do, then?" he said.

"The work of the philosophical policeman," replied the man in blue, "is
at once bolder and more subtle than that of the ordinary detective.
The ordinary detective goes to pot-houses to arrest thieves; we go
to artistic tea-parties to detect pessimists. The ordinary detective
discovers from a ledger or a diary that a crime has been committed. We
discover from a book of sonnets that a crime will be committed. We have
to trace the origin of those dreadful thoughts that drive men on at last
to intellectual fanaticism and intellectual crime. We were only just in
time to prevent the assassination at Hartle pool, and that was entirely
due to the fact that our Mr. Wilks (a smart young fellow) thoroughly
understood a triolet."

"Do you mean," asked Syme, "that there is really as much connection
between crime and the modern intellect as all that?"

"You are not sufficiently democratic," answered the policeman, "but you
were right when you said just now that our ordinary treatment of the
poor criminal was a pretty brutal business. I tell you I am sometimes
sick of my trade when I see how perpetually it means merely a war upon
the ignorant and the desperate. But this new movement of ours is a
very different affair. We deny the snobbish English assumption that the
uneducated are the dangerous criminals. We remember the Roman Emperors.
We remember the great poisoning princes of the Renaissance. We say that
the dangerous criminal is the educated criminal. We say that the most
dangerous criminal now is the entirely lawless modern philosopher.
Compared to him, burglars and bigamists are essentially moral men; my
heart goes out to them. They accept the essential ideal of man; they
merely seek it wrongly. Thieves respect property. They merely wish the
property to become their property that they may more perfectly respect
it. But philosophers dislike property as property; they wish to destroy
the very idea of personal possession. Bigamists respect marriage, or
they would not go through the highly ceremonial and even ritualistic
formality of bigamy. But philosophers despise marriage as marriage.
Murderers respect human life; they merely wish to attain a greater
fulness of human life in themselves by the sacrifice of what seems to
them to be lesser lives. But philosophers hate life itself, their own as
much as other people's."

Syme struck his hands together.

"How true that is," he cried. "I have felt it from my boyhood, but never
could state the verbal antithesis. The common criminal is a bad man, but
at least he is, as it were, a conditional good man. He says that if only
a certain obstacle be removed--say a wealthy uncle--he is then prepared
to accept the universe and to praise God. He is a reformer, but not an
anarchist. He wishes to cleanse the edifice, but not to destroy it. But
the evil philosopher is not trying to alter things, but to annihilate
them. Yes, the modern world has retained all those parts of police work
which are really oppressive and ignominious, the harrying of the poor,
the spying upon the unfortunate. It has given up its more dignified
work, the punishment of powerful traitors in the State and powerful
heresiarchs in the Church. The moderns say we must not punish heretics.
My only doubt is whether we have a right to punish anybody else."

"But this is absurd!" cried the policeman, clasping his hands with an
excitement uncommon in persons of his figure and costume, "but it is
intolerable! I don't know what you're doing, but you're wasting your
life. You must, you shall, join our special army against anarchy. Their
armies are on our frontiers. Their bolt is ready to fall. A moment more,
and you may lose the glory of working with us, perhaps the glory of
dying with the last heroes of the world."

"It is a chance not to be missed, certainly," assented Syme, "but still
I do not quite understand. I know as well as anybody that the modern
world is full of lawless little men and mad little movements. But,
beastly as they are, they generally have the one merit of disagreeing
with each other. How can you talk of their leading one army or hurling
one bolt. What is this anarchy?"

"Do not confuse it," replied the constable, "with those chance dynamite
outbreaks from Russia or from Ireland, which are really the outbreaks
of oppressed, if mistaken, men. This is a vast philosophic movement,
consisting of an outer and an inner ring. You might even call the outer
ring the laity and the inner ring the priesthood. I prefer to call the
outer ring the innocent section, the inner ring the supremely guilty
section. The outer ring--the main mass of their supporters--are merely
anarchists; that is, men who believe that rules and formulas have
destroyed human happiness. They believe that all the evil results of
human crime are the results of the system that has called it crime. They
do not believe that the crime creates the punishment. They believe that
the punishment has created the crime. They believe that if a man seduced
seven women he would naturally walk away as blameless as the flowers of
spring. They believe that if a man picked a pocket he would naturally
feel exquisitely good. These I call the innocent section."

"Oh!" said Syme.

"Naturally, therefore, these people talk about 'a happy time coming';
'the paradise of the future'; 'mankind freed from the bondage of vice
and the bondage of virtue,' and so on. And so also the men of the inner
circle speak--the sacred priesthood. They also speak to applauding
crowds of the happiness of the future, and of mankind freed at last. But
in their mouths"--and the policeman lowered his voice--"in their
mouths these happy phrases have a horrible meaning. They are under no
illusions; they are too intellectual to think that man upon this earth
can ever be quite free of original sin and the struggle. And they mean
death. When they say that mankind shall be free at last, they mean that
mankind shall commit suicide. When they talk of a paradise without right
or wrong, they mean the grave.

"They have but two objects, to destroy first humanity and then
themselves. That is why they throw bombs instead of firing pistols. The
innocent rank and file are disappointed because the bomb has not killed
the king; but the high-priesthood are happy because it has killed
somebody."

"How can I join you?" asked Syme, with a sort of passion.

"I know for a fact that there is a vacancy at the moment," said the
policeman, "as I have the honour to be somewhat in the confidence of
the chief of whom I have spoken. You should really come and see him. Or
rather, I should not say see him, nobody ever sees him; but you can talk
to him if you like."

"Telephone?" inquired Syme, with interest.

"No," said the policeman placidly, "he has a fancy for always sitting
in a pitch-dark room. He says it makes his thoughts brighter. Do come
along."

Somewhat dazed and considerably excited, Syme allowed himself to be led
to a side-door in the long row of buildings of Scotland Yard. Almost
before he knew what he was doing, he had been passed through the hands
of about four intermediate officials, and was suddenly shown into a
room, the abrupt blackness of which startled him like a blaze of light.
It was not the ordinary darkness, in which forms can be faintly traced;
it was like going suddenly stone-blind.

"Are you the new recruit?" asked a heavy voice.

And in some strange way, though there was not the shadow of a shape
in the gloom, Syme knew two things: first, that it came from a man of
massive stature; and second, that the man had his back to him.

"Are you the new recruit?" said the invisible chief, who seemed to have
heard all about it. "All right. You are engaged."

Syme, quite swept off his feet, made a feeble fight against this
irrevocable phrase.

"I really have no experience," he began.

"No one has any experience," said the other, "of the Battle of
Armageddon."

"But I am really unfit--"

"You are willing, that is enough," said the unknown.

"Well, really," said Syme, "I don't know any profession of which mere
willingness is the final test."

"I do," said the other--"martyrs. I am condemning you to death. Good
day."

Thus it was that when Gabriel Syme came out again into the crimson light
of evening, in his shabby black hat and shabby, lawless cloak, he came
out a member of the New Detective Corps for the frustration of the great
conspiracy. Acting under the advice of his friend the policeman (who
was professionally inclined to neatness), he trimmed his hair and beard,
bought a good hat, clad himself in an exquisite summer suit of light
blue-grey, with a pale yellow flower in the button-hole, and, in short,
became that elegant and rather insupportable person whom Gregory had
first encountered in the little garden of Saffron Park. Before he
finally left the police premises his friend provided him with a small
blue card, on which was written, "The Last Crusade," and a number,
the sign of his official authority. He put this carefully in his upper
waistcoat pocket, lit a cigarette, and went forth to track and fight the
enemy in all the drawing-rooms of London. Where his adventure ultimately
led him we have already seen. At about half-past one on a February night
he found himself steaming in a small tug up the silent Thames, armed
with swordstick and revolver, the duly elected Thursday of the Central
Council of Anarchists.

When Syme stepped out on to the steam-tug he had a singular sensation of
stepping out into something entirely new; not merely into the landscape
of a new land, but even into the landscape of a new planet. This was
mainly due to the insane yet solid decision of that evening, though
partly also to an entire change in the weather and the sky since he
entered the little tavern some two hours before. Every trace of the
passionate plumage of the cloudy sunset had been swept away, and a naked
moon stood in a naked sky. The moon was so strong and full that (by a
paradox often to be noticed) it seemed like a weaker sun. It gave, not
the sense of bright moonshine, but rather of a dead daylight.

Over the whole landscape lay a luminous and unnatural discoloration, as
of that disastrous twilight which Milton spoke of as shed by the sun in
eclipse; so that Syme fell easily into his first thought, that he was
actually on some other and emptier planet, which circled round some
sadder star. But the more he felt this glittering desolation in the
moonlit land, the more his own chivalric folly glowed in the night like
a great fire. Even the common things he carried with him--the food and
the brandy and the loaded pistol--took on exactly that concrete and
material poetry which a child feels when he takes a gun upon a journey
or a bun with him to bed. The sword-stick and the brandy-flask,
though in themselves only the tools of morbid conspirators, became the
expressions of his own more healthy romance. The sword-stick
became almost the sword of chivalry, and the brandy the wine of the
stirrup-cup. For even the most dehumanised modern fantasies depend
on some older and simpler figure; the adventures may be mad, but the
adventurer must be sane. The dragon without St. George would not even
be grotesque. So this inhuman landscape was only imaginative by the
presence of a man really human. To Syme's exaggerative mind the bright,
bleak houses and terraces by the Thames looked as empty as the mountains
of the moon. But even the moon is only poetical because there is a man
in the moon.

The tug was worked by two men, and with much toil went comparatively
slowly. The clear moon that had lit up Chiswick had gone down by the
time that they passed Battersea, and when they came under the enormous
bulk of Westminster day had already begun to break. It broke like the
splitting of great bars of lead, showing bars of silver; and these had
brightened like white fire when the tug, changing its onward course,
turned inward to a large landing stage rather beyond Charing Cross.

The great stones of the Embankment seemed equally dark and gigantic as
Syme looked up at them. They were big and black against the huge white
dawn. They made him feel that he was landing on the colossal steps of
some Egyptian palace; and, indeed, the thing suited his mood, for he
was, in his own mind, mounting to attack the solid thrones of horrible
and heathen kings. He leapt out of the boat on to one slimy step, and
stood, a dark and slender figure, amid the enormous masonry. The two men
in the tug put her off again and turned up stream. They had never spoken
a word.


CHAPTER V. THE FEAST OF FEAR

AT first the large stone stair seemed to Syme as deserted as a pyramid;
but before he reached the top he had realised that there was a man
leaning over the parapet of the Embankment and looking out across the
river. As a figure he was quite conventional, clad in a silk hat and
frock-coat of the more formal type of fashion; he had a red flower in
his buttonhole. As Syme drew nearer to him step by step, he did not even
move a hair; and Syme could come close enough to notice even in the dim,
pale morning light that his face was long, pale and intellectual, and
ended in a small triangular tuft of dark beard at the very point of the
chin, all else being clean-shaven. This scrap of hair almost seemed
a mere oversight; the rest of the face was of the type that is best
shaven--clear-cut, ascetic, and in its way noble. Syme drew closer and
closer, noting all this, and still the figure did not stir.

At first an instinct had told Syme that this was the man whom he was
meant to meet. Then, seeing that the man made no sign, he had concluded
that he was not. And now again he had come back to a certainty that the
man had something to do with his mad adventure. For the man remained
more still than would have been natural if a stranger had come so close.
He was as motionless as a wax-work, and got on the nerves somewhat in
the same way. Syme looked again and again at the pale, dignified and
delicate face, and the face still looked blankly across the river. Then
he took out of his pocket the note from Buttons proving his election,
and put it before that sad and beautiful face. Then the man smiled, and
his smile was a shock, for it was all on one side, going up in the right
cheek and down in the left.

There was nothing, rationally speaking, to scare anyone about this. Many
people have this nervous trick of a crooked smile, and in many it is
even attractive. But in all Syme's circumstances, with the dark dawn and
the deadly errand and the loneliness on the great dripping stones, there
was something unnerving in it.

There was the silent river and the silent man, a man of even classic
face. And there was the last nightmare touch that his smile suddenly
went wrong.

The spasm of smile was instantaneous, and the man's face dropped at once
into its harmonious melancholy. He spoke without further explanation or
inquiry, like a man speaking to an old colleague.

"If we walk up towards Leicester Square," he said, "we shall just be in
time for breakfast. Sunday always insists on an early breakfast. Have
you had any sleep?"

"No," said Syme.

"Nor have I," answered the man in an ordinary tone. "I shall try to get
to bed after breakfast."

He spoke with casual civility, but in an utterly dead voice that
contradicted the fanaticism of his face. It seemed almost as if all
friendly words were to him lifeless conveniences, and that his only life
was hate. After a pause the man spoke again.

"Of course, the Secretary of the branch told you everything that can be
told. But the one thing that can never be told is the last notion of the
President, for his notions grow like a tropical forest. So in case you
don't know, I'd better tell you that he is carrying out his notion
of concealing ourselves by not concealing ourselves to the most
extraordinary lengths just now. Originally, of course, we met in a
cell underground, just as your branch does. Then Sunday made us take a
private room at an ordinary restaurant. He said that if you didn't seem
to be hiding nobody hunted you out. Well, he is the only man on earth, I
know; but sometimes I really think that his huge brain is going a little
mad in its old age. For now we flaunt ourselves before the public.
We have our breakfast on a balcony--on a balcony, if you
please--overlooking Leicester Square."

"And what do the people say?" asked Syme.

"It's quite simple what they say," answered his guide.

"They say we are a lot of jolly gentlemen who pretend they are
anarchists."

"It seems to me a very clever idea," said Syme.

"Clever! God blast your impudence! Clever!" Too much praise can
hardly be awarded to the volunteer firemen, who, during the whole
of the engagement, continued to patrol the streets, watching the fall
of every rocket and shell, and extinguishing fires as soon as
lighted.

Two of this band may be named without injustice to others, as
having rendered efficient and constant service,--Capt.
CHARLES H. SMITH and FRANCIS AMY, Esq., both serjeants in Capt.
Potter's company. Capt. THOMAS SWAN was not less active or persevering.
He remained in the Borough, (except for an hour's visit to his family,
placed in safety at a farm house, a mile distant,) from the beginning
of the attack till the departure of the ships; serving, as necessity
required, with the volunteer firemen, and with the guard stationed on
the east side of the Point to prevent a landing of the enemy from
their boats.

NOTE 17, page 32.

See Capt. Palmer's letter to the Secretary of War, next following.

NOTE 18, page 36.

The anchor left by the _Dispatch_ brig, at Stonington, when she 'cut
and run,' has been got up and brought to New London. It weighs upwards
of 20 _cwt._--_Niles's Weekly Register, Sept. 10, 1814._
"Mr. Chalmers, late master of the _Terror_, bomb-vessel, employed in
the attack on Stonington, has been captured in a British barge and sent
to Providence. He says 170 bombs were discharged from that ship in
the attack on Stonington, which were found to weigh 80 lb. each;
the charge of powder for the mortar was 9 lbs.; adding to this the
wadding, that vessel must have disgorged eight tons weight."--_Ibid._
* * * * *
"The following appears in a New York paper, in the shape of an
advertisement:
_English Manufacture, and Memento of the "Magnanimity" of Commodore
Hardy._ 
Just received, and offered for sale, about
THREE TONS OF ROUND SHOT,
consisting of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and 32 lbs., very handsome, being
a _small_ proportion of those which were fired from his Britannic
Majesty's ships, on the unoffending inhabitants of Stonington, in
the recent _brilliant_ attack on that place.Then the grave Secretary gave his unnatural
smile, and Syme knew that this boisterous breakfast party was the secret
conclave of the European Dynamiters.

Then, as Syme continued to stare at them, he saw something that he had
not seen before. He had not seen it literally because it was too large
to see. At the nearest end of the balcony, blocking up a great part of
the perspective, was the back of a great mountain of a man. When Syme
had seen him, his first thought was that the weight of him must break
down the balcony of stone. His vastness did not lie only in the fact
that he was abnormally tall and quite incredibly fat. This man was
planned enormously in his original proportions, like a statue carved
deliberately as colossal. His head, crowned with white hair, as seen
from behind looked bigger than a head ought to be. The ears that stood
out from it looked larger than human ears. He was enlarged terribly to
scale; and this sense of size was so staggering, that when Syme saw
him all the other figures seemed quite suddenly to dwindle and become
dwarfish. They were still sitting there as before with their flowers and
frock-coats, but now it looked as if the big man was entertaining five
children to tea.

As Syme and the guide approached the side door of the hotel, a waiter
came out smiling with every tooth in his head.

"The gentlemen are up there, sare," he said. "They do talk and they do
laugh at what they talk. They do say they will throw bombs at ze king."

And the waiter hurried away with a napkin over his arm, much pleased
with the singular frivolity of the gentlemen upstairs.

The two men mounted the stairs in silence.

Syme had never thought of asking whether the monstrous man who almost
filled and broke the balcony was the great President of whom the others
stood in awe. He knew it was so, with an unaccountable but instantaneous
certainty. Syme, indeed, was one of those men who are open to all the
more nameless psychological influences in a degree a little dangerous
to mental health. Utterly devoid of fear in physical dangers, he was a
great deal too sensitive to the smell of spiritual evil. Twice already
that night little unmeaning things had peeped out at him almost
pruriently, and given him a sense of drawing nearer and nearer to the
head-quarters of hell. And this sense became overpowering as he drew
nearer to the great President.

The form it took was a childish and yet hateful fancy. As he walked
across the inner room towards the balcony, the large face of Sunday grew
larger and larger; and Syme was gripped with a fear that when he was
quite close the face would be too big to be possible, and that he would
scream aloud. He remembered that as a child he would not look at the
mask of Memnon in the British Museum, because it was a face, and so
large.

By an effort, braver than that of leaping over a cliff, he went to an
empty seat at the breakfast-table and sat down. The men greeted him
with good-humoured raillery as if they had always known him. He sobered
himself a little by looking at their conventional coats and solid,
shining coffee-pot; then he looked again at Sunday. His face was very
large, but it was still possible to humanity.

In the presence of the President the whole company looked sufficiently
commonplace; nothing about them caught the eye at first, except that
by the President's caprice they had been dressed up with a festive
respectability, which gave the meal the look of a wedding breakfast. One
man indeed stood out at even a superficial glance. He at least was the
common or garden Dynamiter. He wore, indeed, the high white collar and
satin tie that were the uniform of the occasion; but out of this
collar there sprang a head quite unmanageable and quite unmistakable, a
bewildering bush of brown hair and beard that almost obscured the eyes
like those of a Skye terrier. But the eyes did look out of the tangle,
and they were the sad eyes of some Russian serf. The effect of this
figure was not terrible like that of the President, but it had every
diablerie that can come from the utterly grotesque. If out of that stiff
tie and collar there had come abruptly the head of a cat or a dog, it
could not have been a more idiotic contrast.

The man's name, it seemed, was Gogol; he was a Pole, and in this circle
of days he was called Tuesday. His soul and speech were incurably
tragic; he could not force himself to play the prosperous and frivolous
part demanded of him by President Sunday. And, indeed, when Syme came in
the President, with that daring disregard of public suspicion which was
his policy, was actually chaffing Gogol upon his inability to assume
conventional graces.

"Our friend Tuesday," said the President in a deep voice at once of
quietude and volume, "our friend Tuesday doesn't seem to grasp the idea.
He dresses up like a gentleman, but he seems to be too great a soul to
behave like one. He insists on the ways of the stage conspirator. Now if
a gentleman goes about London in a top hat and a frock-coat, no one need
know that he is an anarchist. From the King, the society of the Hague,
and the diplomatic circle we had many marks of kindness. Once or twice
I made short journeys with him for change of air to Amsterdam, to look
for the portraits of John of Barneveld and his wife; to Bohemia, where,
with the lingering hope of occupying himself with the Thirty Years'
War, he looked carefully at the scene of Wallenstein's death near
Prague, and later to Varzin in Pomerania for a week with Prince
Bismarck, after the great events of the Franco-German war.

In the autumn of 1872 we moved to England, partly because it was evident
that his health and my mother's required a change; partly for
private reasons to be near my sister and her children.

The day after our arrival at Bournemouth occurred the rupture of a
vessel on the lungs, without any apparently sufficient cause. He recovered
enough to revise and complete his manuscript, and we thought him better,
when at the end of July, in London, he was struck down by the first
attack of the head, which robbed him of all after power of work, although
the intellect remained untouched. Sir William Gull sent him to Cannes
for the winter, where he was seized with a violent internal
inflammation, in which I suppose there was again the indication of
the lesion of blood-vessels.

I am nearing the shadow now,--the time of which I can hardly bear
to write.

You know the terrible sorrow which crushed him on the last day of 1874,--the
grief which broke his heart and from which he never rallied.

From that day it seems to me that his life may be summed up in the
two words,--patient waiting.
Never for one hour did her spirit leave him, and he strove to follow
its leading for the short and evil days left and the hope of the
life beyond.

I think I have never watched quietly and reverently the traces of
one personal character remaining so strongly impressed on another nature.
With herself--depreciation and unselfishness she would have been the
last to believe how much of him was in her very existence; nor could
we have realized it until the parting came.
Henceforward, with the mind still there, but with the machinery
necessary to set it in motion disturbed and shattered, he could but try
to create small occupations with which to fill the hours of a life which
was only valued for his children's sake. Kind and loving friends in
England and America soothed the passage, and our gratitude for so
many gracious acts is deep and true.

His love for children, always a strong feeling, was gratified
by the constant presence of my sister's babies, the eldest, a little
girl who bore my mother's name, and had been her idol, being the
companion of many hours and his best comforter. At the end the
blow came swiftly and suddenly, as he would have wished it. It was a
terrible shock to us who had vainly hoped to keep him a few years
longer, but at least he was spared what he had dreaded with a great
dread, a gradual failure of mental or bodily power. The mind was
never clouded, the affections never weakened, and after a few hours of
unconscious physical struggle he lay at rest, his face beautiful
and calm, without a trace of suffering or illness.

Once or twice he said, 'It has come, it has come,' and there were a few
broken words before consciousness fled, but there was little time
for messages or leave- taking. By a strange coincidence his life ended
near the town of Dorchester, in the mother country, as if the last hour
brought with it a reminiscence of his birthplace, and of his own
dearly loved mother. By his own wish only the dates of his birth and
death appear upon his gravestone, with the text chosen by himself, 'In
God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.'"

XXIV.

CONCLUSION.--HIS CHARACTER.--HIS LABORS.--HIS REWARD.

In closing this restricted and imperfect record of a life which merits,
and in due time will, I trust, receive an ampler tribute, I cannot
refrain from adding a few thoughts which naturally suggest themselves,
and some of which may seem quite unnecessary to the reader who has
followed the story of the historian and diplomatist's brilliant and
eventful career.

Mr. Motley came of a parentage which promised the gifts of mind and body
very generally to be accounted for, in a measure at least, wherever
we find them, by the blood of one or both of the parents. They gave him
special attractions and laid him open to not a few temptations. Too
many young men born to shine in social life, to sparkle, it may be,
in conversation, perhaps in the lighter walks of literature, become
agreeable idlers, self-indulgent, frivolous, incapable of large designs
or sustained effort, lose every aspiration and forget every ideal.
Our gilded youth want such examples as this of Motley, not a solitary,
but a conspicuous one, to teach them how much better is the restlessness
of a noble ambition than the narcotized stupor of club-life or the
vapid amusement of a dressed-up intercourse which too often requires a
questionable flavor of forbidden license to render it endurable to
persons of vivacious character and temperament.

It would seem difficult for a man so flattered from his earliest
days to be modest in his self-estimate; but Motley was never satisfied
with himself.

He was impulsive, and was occasionally, I have heard it said, over excited,
when his prejudices were roughly handled. In all that related to the
questions involved in our civil war, he was, no doubt, very sensitive.
He had heard so much that exasperated him in the foreign society which
he had expected to be in full sympathy with the cause of liberty as against
slavery, that he might be excused if he showed impatience when he met
with similar sentiments among his own countrymen.
He felt that he had been cruelly treated by his own government, and no one
who conceives himself to have been wronged and insulted must be expected
to reason in naked syllogisms on the propriety of the liberties which
have been taken with his name and standing. But with all his quickness
of feeling, his manners were easy and courteous, simply because his
nature was warm and kindly, and with all his natural fastidiousness
there was nothing of the coxcomb about him.

He must have had enemies, as all men of striking individuality are sure
to have; his presence cast more uncouth patriots into the shade; his
learning was a reproach to the ignorant, his fame was too bright a
distinction; his high-bred air and refinement, which he could not
help, would hardly commend him to the average citizen in an order
of things in which mediocrity is at a premium, and the natural
nobility of presence, which rarely comes without family antecedents
to account for it, is not always agreeable to the many whose two
ideals are the man on horseback and the man in his shirt-sleeves.

It may well be questioned whether Washington, with his grand manner,
would be nearly as popular with what are called "the masses" as
Lincoln, with his homely ways and broad stories.

The experiment of universal suffrage must render the waters of political
and social life more or less turbid even if they remain innoxious. The
Cloaca Maxima can hardly mingle its contents with the stream of the
Aqua Claudia, without taking something from its crystal clearness. We
need not go so far as one of our well-known politicians has recently
gone in saying that no great man can reach the highest position in our
government, but we can safely say that, apart from military fame, the
loftiest and purest and finest personal qualities are not those which
can be most depended upon at the ballot-box. Strange stories are told
of avowed opposition to Mr. Motley on the ground of the most trivial
differences in point of taste in personal matters,--so told that it is
hard to disbelieve them, and they show that the caprices which we might
have thought belonged exclusively to absolute rulers among their mistresses
or their minions may be felt in the councils of a great people which
calls itself self-governing. It is perfectly true that Mr. Motley
did not illustrate the popular type of politician.

He was too high-minded, too scholarly, too generously industrious, too
polished, too much at home in the highest European circles, too
much courted for his personal fascinations, too remote from the trading
world of caucus managers. To degrade him, so far as official capital
punishment could do it, was not merely to wrong one whom the nation should
have delighted to honor as showing it to the world in the fairest flower
of its young civilization, but it was an indignity to a representative
of the highest scholarship of native growth, which every student in
the land felt as a discouragement to all sound learning and noble
ambition.

If he was disappointed in his diplomatic career, he had enough, and more
than enough, to console him in his brilliant literary triumphs. He
had earned them all by the most faithful and patient labor. If he had not
the "frame of adamant" of the Swedish hero, he had his "soul of
fire." No labors could tire him, no difficulties affright him. What
most surprised those who knew him as a young man was, not his ambition,
not his brilliancy, but his dogged, continuous capacity for work. We
have seen with what astonishment the old Dutch scholar, Groen van
Prinsterer, looked upon a man who had wrestled with authors like Bor
and Van Meteren, who had grappled with the mightiest folios and
toiled undiscouraged among half-illegible manuscript records. Having
spared no pains in collecting his materials, he told his story, as we
all know, with flowing ease and stirring vitality. His views may have
been more or less partial; Philip the Second may have deserved the
pitying benevolence of poor Maximilian; Maurice may have wept as
sincerely over the errors of Arminius as any one of "the crocodile
crew that believe in election;" Barneveld and Grotius may have been
on the road to Rome; none of these things seem probable, but if
they were all proved true in opposition to his views, we should
still have the long roll of glowing tapestry he has woven for us,
with all its life-like portraits, its almost moving pageants, its
sieges where we can see the artillery flashing, its battle-fields
with their smoke and fire,--pictures which cannot fade, and which
will preserve his name interwoven with their own enduring colors.

Republics are said to be ungrateful; it might be truer to say that
they are forgetful. They forgive those who have wronged them as easily
as they forget those who have done them good service. But History never
forgets and never forgives. To her decision we may trust the question,
whether the warm-hearted patriot who had stood up for his country nobly
and manfully in the hour of trial, the great scholar and writer
who had reflected honor upon her throughout the world of letters,
the high-minded public servant, whose shortcomings it taxed the
ingenuity of experts to make conspicuous enough to be presentable,
was treated as such a citizen should have been dealt with.

His record is safe in her hands, and his memory will be precious always
in the hearts of all who enjoyed his friendship.

APPENDIX.

A.

THE SATURDAY CLUB.

This club, of which we were both members, and which is still flourishing,
came into existence in a very quiet sort of way at about the same
time as "The Atlantic Monthly," and, although entirely unconnected
with that magazine, included as members some of its chief contributors.
Of those who might have been met at some of the monthly gatherings
in its earlier days I may mention Emerson, Hawthorne, Longfellow,
Lowell, Motley, Whipple, Whittier; Professors Agassiz and Peirce; John
S. Dwight; Governor Andrew, Richard H. Dana, Junior, Charles Sumner. It
offered a wide gamut of intelligences, and the meetings were
noteworthy occasions.

If there was not a certain amount of "mutual admiration" among some
of those I have mentioned it was a great pity, and implied a defect
in the nature of men who were otherwise largely endowed. The vitality
of this club has depended in a great measure on its utter poverty in
statutes and by-laws, its entire absence of formality, and its blessed
freedom from speech-making.

That holy man, Richard Baxter, says in his Preface to Alleine's
"Alarm:"--
"I have done, when I have sought to remove a little scandal, which I
foresaw, that I should myself write the Preface to his Life where himself
and two of his friends make such a mention of my name, which I cannot
own; which will seem a praising him for praising me. I confess it
looketh ill-favoredly in me. But I had not the power of other men's
writings, and durst not forbear that which was his due."

I do not know that I have any occasion for a similar apology in printing
the following lines read at a meeting of members of the Saturday Club
and other friends who came together to bid farewell to Motley before
his return to Europe in 1857.

A PARTING HEALTH
Yes, we knew we must lose him,--though friendship may claim To blend her
green leaves with the laurels of fame, Though fondly, at parting, we
call him our own, 'T is the whisper of love when the bugle has
blown.

As the rider that rests with the spur on his heel, As the guardsman
that sleeps in his corselet of steel, As the archer that stands
with his shaft on the string, He stoops from his toil to the garland
we bring.

What pictures yet slumber unborn in his loom Till their warriors shall
breathe and their beauties shall bloom, While the tapestry lengthens
the life-glowing dyes That caught from our sunsets the stain of their
skies!

In the alcoves of death, in the charnels of time, Where flit the dark
spectres of passion and crime, There are triumphs untold, there are martyrs
unsung, There are heroes yet silent to speak with his tongue!

Let us hear the proud story that time has bequeathed From lips that are
warm with the freedom they breathed!
Let him summon its tyrants, and tell us their doom, Though he sweep
the black past like Van Tromp with his broom!

The dream flashes by, for the west-winds awake On pampas, on prairie,
o'er mountain and lake, To bathe the swift bark, like a sea-girdled
shrine With incense they stole from the rose and the pine.

So fill a bright cup with the sunlight that gushed When the dead
summer's jewels were trampled and crushed; THE TRUE KNIGHT OF
LEARNING,--the world holds him dear,--
Love bless him, joy crown him, God speed his career!

B.

HABITS AND METHODS OF STUDY.

Mr. Motley's daughter, Lady Harcourt, has favored me with many interesting
particulars which I could not have learned except from a member of his
own family. Her description of his way of living and of working will
be best given in her own words:--
"He generally rose early, the hour varying somewhat at different parts
of his life, according to his work and health.

Sometimes when much absorbed by literary labor he would rise before
seven, often lighting his own fire, and with a cup of tea or coffee
writing until the family breakfast hour, after which his work was
immediately resumed, and he usually sat over his writing-table until
late in the afternoon, when he would take a short walk.

His dinner hour was late, and he rarely worked at night. During the
early years of his literary studies he led a life of great retirement.

Later, after the publication of the 'Dutch Republic' and during the
years of official place, he was much in society in England, Austria,
and Holland.

He enjoyed social life, and particularly dining out, keenly, but
was very moderate and simple in all his personal habits, and for
many years before his death had entirely given up smoking.

His work, when not in his own library, was in the Archives of the
Netherlands, Brussels, Paris, the English State Paper Office, and
the British Museum, where he made his own researches, patiently and
laboriously consulting original manuscripts and reading masses of
correspondence, from which he afterwards sometimes caused copies
to be made, and where he worked for many consecutive hours a day.

His
youthful prank of being a policeman had faded from his mind; he did not
think of himself as the representative of the corps of gentlemen turned
into fancy constables, or of the old eccentric who lived in the dark
room. But he did feel himself as the ambassador of all these common and
kindly people in the street, who every day marched into battle to the
music of the barrel-organ. And this high pride in being human had lifted
him unaccountably to an infinite height above the monstrous men around
him. For an instant, at least, he looked down upon all their sprawling
eccentricities from the starry pinnacle of the commonplace. He felt
towards them all that unconscious and elementary superiority that a
brave man feels over powerful beasts or a wise man over powerful errors.
He knew that he had neither the intellectual nor the physical strength
of President Sunday; but in that moment he minded it no more than the
fact that he had not the muscles of a tiger or a horn on his nose like
a rhinoceros. All was swallowed up in an ultimate certainty that the
President was wrong and that the barrel-organ was right. There clanged
in his mind that unanswerable and terrible truism in the song of
Roland--

    "Pagens ont tort et Chretiens ont droit."

which in the old nasal French has the clang and groan of great iron.
This liberation of his spirit from the load of his weakness went with a
quite clear decision to embrace death. If the people of the barrel-organ
could keep their old-world obligations, so could he. This very pride in
keeping his word was that he was keeping it to miscreants. It was his
last triumph over these lunatics to go down into their dark room and
die for something that they could not even understand. The barrel-organ
seemed to give the marching tune with the energy and the mingled noises
of a whole orchestra; and he could hear deep and rolling, under all the
trumpets of the pride of life, the drums of the pride of death.

The conspirators were already filing through the open window and into
the rooms behind. Syme went last, outwardly calm, but with all his brain
and body throbbing with romantic rhythm. The President led them down an
irregular side stair, such as might be used by servants, and into a dim,
cold, empty room, with a table and benches, like an abandoned boardroom.
When they were all in, he closed and locked the door.

The first to speak was Gogol, the irreconcilable, who seemed bursting
with inarticulate grievance.

"Zso! Zso!" he cried, with an obscure excitement, his heavy Polish
accent becoming almost impenetrable. "You zay you nod 'ide. You zay you
show himselves. It is all nuzzinks. Ven you vant talk importance you run
yourselves in a dark box!"

The President seemed to take the foreigner's incoherent satire with
entire good humour.

"You can't get hold of it yet, Gogol," he said in a fatherly way. "When
once they have heard us talking nonsense on that balcony they will not
care where we go afterwards. If we had come here first, we should have
had the whole staff at the keyhole. You don't seem to know anything
about mankind."

"I die for zem," cried the Pole in thick excitement, "and I slay zare
oppressors. I care not for these games of gonzealment. I would zmite ze
tyrant in ze open square."

"I see, I see," said the President, nodding kindly as he seated himself
at the top of a long table. "You die for mankind first, and then you get
up and smite their oppressors. So that's all right. And now may I ask
you to control your beautiful sentiments, and sit down with the other
gentlemen at this table. For the first time this morning something
intelligent is going to be said."

Syme, with the perturbed promptitude he had shown since the original
summons, sat down first. Gogol sat down last, grumbling in his brown
beard about gombromise. No one except Syme seemed to have any notion of
the blow that was about to fall. As for him, he had merely the feeling
of a man mounting the scaffold with the intention, at any rate, of
making a good speech.

"Comrades," said the President, suddenly rising, "we have spun out this
farce long enough. I have called you down here to tell you something so
simple and shocking that even the waiters upstairs (long inured to our
levities) might hear some new seriousness in my voice. Comrades, we were
discussing plans and naming places. I propose, before saying anything
else, that those plans and places should not be voted by this meeting,
but should be left wholly in the control of some one reliable member. I
suggest Comrade Saturday, Dr. Bull."

They all stared at him; then they all started in their seats, for the
next words, though not loud, had a living and sensational emphasis.
Sunday struck the table.

"Not one word more about the plans and places must be said at this
meeting. Not one tiny detail more about what we mean to do must be
mentioned in this company."

Sunday had spent his life in astonishing his followers; but it seemed
as if he had never really astonished them until now. They all moved
feverishly in their seats, except Syme. He sat stiff in his, with his
hand in his pocket, and on the handle of his loaded revolver. When the
attack on him came he would sell his life dear. He would find out at
least if the President was mortal.

Sunday went on smoothly--

"You will probably understand that there is only one possible motive
for forbidding free speech at this festival of freedom. Strangers
overhearing us matters nothing. They assume that we are joking. But
what would matter, even unto death, is this, that there should be one
actually among us who is not of us, who knows our grave purpose, but
does not share it, who--"

The Secretary screamed out suddenly like a woman.

"It can't be!" he cried, leaping. "There can't--"

The President flapped his large flat hand on the table like the fin of
some huge fish.

"Yes," he said slowly, "there is a spy in this room. There is a traitor
at this table. I will waste no more words. His name--"

Syme half rose from his seat, his finger firm on the trigger.

"His name is Gogol," said the President. "He is that hairy humbug over
there who pretends to be a Pole."

Gogol sprang to his feet, a pistol in each hand. With the same flash
three men sprang at his throat. Even the Professor made an effort
to rise. But Syme saw little of the scene, for he was blinded with a
beneficent darkness; he had sunk down into his seat shuddering, in a
palsy of passionate relief.


CHAPTER VII. THE UNACCOUNTABLE CONDUCT OF PROFESSOR DE WORMS

"SIT down!" said Sunday in a voice that he used once or twice in his
life, a voice that made men drop drawn swords.

The three who had risen fell away from Gogol, and that equivocal person
himself resumed his seat.

"Well, my man," said the President briskly, addressing him as one
addresses a total stranger, "will you oblige me by putting your hand in
your upper waistcoat pocket and showing me what you have there?"

The alleged Pole was a little pale under his tangle of dark hair, but he
put two fingers into the pocket with apparent coolness and pulled out
a blue strip of card. When Syme saw it lying on the table, he woke up
again to the world outside him. For although the card lay at the other
extreme of the table, and he could read nothing of the inscription on
it, it bore a startling resemblance to the blue card in his own pocket,
the card which had been given to him when he joined the anti-anarchist
constabulary.

"Pathetic Slav," said the President, "tragic child of Poland, are you
prepared in the presence of that card to deny that you are in this
company--shall we say de trop?"

"Right oh!" said the late Gogol. It made everyone jump to hear a clear,
commercial and somewhat cockney voice coming out of that forest of
foreign hair. It was irrational, as if a Chinaman had suddenly spoken
with a Scotch accent.

"I gather that you fully understand your position," said Sunday.

"You bet," answered the Pole. "I see it's a fair cop. All I say is, I
don't believe any Pole could have imitated my accent like I did his."

"I concede the point," said Sunday. "I believe your own accent to be
inimitable, though I shall practise it in my bath. Do you mind leaving
your beard with your card?"

"Not a bit," answered Gogol; and with one finger he ripped off the whole
of his shaggy head-covering, emerging with thin red hair and a pale,
pert face. "It was hot," he added.

"I will do you the justice to say," said Sunday, not without a sort of
brutal admiration, "that you seem to have kept pretty cool under it. Now
listen to me. I like you. The consequence is that it would annoy me
for just about two and a half minutes if I heard that you had died in
torments. Well, if you ever tell the police or any human soul about
us, I shall have that two and a half minutes of discomfort. On your
discomfort I will not dwell. Good day. Mind the step."

The red-haired detective who had masqueraded as Gogol rose to his
feet without a word, and walked out of the room with an air of perfect
nonchalance. Yet the astonished Syme was able to realise that this ease
was suddenly assumed; for there was a slight stumble outside the door,
which showed that the departing detective had not minded the step.

"Time is flying," said the President in his gayest manner, after
glancing at his watch, which like everything about him seemed bigger
than it ought to be. "I must go off at once; I have to take the chair at
a Humanitarian meeting."

The Secretary turned to him with working eyebrows.

"Would it not be better," he said a little sharply, "to discuss further
the details of our project, now that the spy has left us?"

"No, I think not," said the President with a yawn like an unobtrusive
earthquake. "Leave it as it is. Let Saturday settle it. I must be off.
Breakfast here next Sunday."

But the late loud scenes had whipped up the almost naked nerves of the
Secretary. He was one of those men who are conscientious even in crime.

"I must protest, President, that the thing is irregular," he said. "It
is a fundamental rule of our society that all plans shall be debated in
full council. Of course, I fully appreciate your forethought when in the
actual presence of a traitor--"

"Secretary," said the President seriously, "if you'd take your head home
and boil it for a turnip it might be useful. I can't say. But it might."

The Secretary reared back in a kind of equine anger.

"I really fail to understand--" he began in high offense.

"That's it, that's it," said the President, nodding a great many times.
"That's where you fail right enough. You fail to understand. Why, you
dancing donkey," he roared, rising, "you didn't want to be overheard by
a spy, didn't you? How do you know you aren't overheard now?"

And with these words he shouldered his way out of the room, shaking with
incomprehensible scorn.

Four of the men left behind gaped after him without any apparent
glimmering of his meaning. Syme alone had even a glimmering, and such
as it was it froze him to the bone. If the last words of the President
meant anything, they meant that he had not after all passed unsuspected.
They meant that while Sunday could not denounce him like Gogol, he still
could not trust him like the others.

The other four got to their feet grumbling more or less, and betook
themselves elsewhere to find lunch, for it was already well past midday.
The Professor went last, very slowly and painfully. Syme sat long after
the rest had gone, revolving his strange position. He had escaped a
thunderbolt, but he was still under a cloud. At last he rose and made
his way out of the hotel into Leicester Square. The bright, cold day had
grown increasingly colder, and when he came out into the street he
was surprised by a few flakes of snow. While he still carried the
sword-stick and the rest of Gregory's portable luggage, he had thrown
the cloak down and left it somewhere, perhaps on the steam-tug, perhaps
on the balcony. Hoping, therefore, that the snow-shower might be slight,
he stepped back out of the street for a moment and stood up under the
doorway of a small and greasy hair-dresser's shop, the front window of
which was empty, except for a sickly wax lady in evening dress.

Snow, however, began to thicken and fall fast; and Syme, having found
one glance at the wax lady quite sufficient to depress his spirits,
stared out instead into the white and empty street. He was considerably
astonished to see, standing quite still outside the shop and staring
into the window, a man. His top hat was loaded with snow like the hat of
Father Christmas, the white drift was rising round his boots and ankles;
but it seemed as if nothing could tear him away from the contemplation
of the colourless wax doll in dirty evening dress. That any human being
should stand in such weather looking into such a shop was a matter of
sufficient wonder to Syme; but his idle wonder turned suddenly into
a personal shock; for he realised that the man standing there was the
paralytic old Professor de Worms. It scarcely seemed the place for a
person of his years and infirmities.

Syme was ready to believe anything about the perversions of this
dehumanized brotherhood; but even he could not believe that the
Professor had fallen in love with that particular wax lady. He could
only suppose that the man's malady (whatever it was) involved some
momentary fits of rigidity or trance. He was not inclined, however, to
feel in this case any very compassionate concern. On the contrary,
he rather congratulated himself that the Professor's stroke and his
elaborate and limping walk would make it easy to escape from him and
leave him miles behind. For Syme thirsted first and last to get clear
of the whole poisonous atmosphere, if only for an hour. Then he could
collect his thoughts, formulate his policy, and decide finally whether
he should or should not keep faith with Gregory.

He strolled away through the dancing snow, turned up two or three
streets, down through two or three others, and entered a small Soho
restaurant for lunch. He partook reflectively of four small and quaint
courses, drank half a bottle of red wine, and ended up over black coffee
and a black cigar, still thinking. He had taken his seat in the upper
room of the restaurant, which was full of the chink of knives and the
chatter of foreigners. He remembered that in old days he had imagined
that all these harmless and kindly aliens were anarchists. He shuddered,
remembering the real thing. But even the shudder had the delightful
shame of escape. The wine, the common food, the familiar place, the
faces of natural and talkative men, made him almost feel as if the
Council of the Seven Days had been a bad dream; and although he knew it
was nevertheless an objective reality, it was at least a distant one.
Tall houses and populous streets lay between him and his last sight of
the shameful seven; he was free in free London, and drinking wine among
the free. With a somewhat easier action, he took his hat and stick and
strolled down the stair into the shop below.

When he entered that lower room he stood stricken and rooted to the
spot. At a small table, close up to the blank window and the white
street of snow, sat the old anarchist Professor over a glass of milk,
with his lifted livid face and pendent eyelids. For an instant Syme
stood as rigid as the stick he leant upon. Then with a gesture as of
blind hurry, he brushed past the Professor, dashing open the door and
slamming it behind him, and stood outside in the snow.

"Can that old corpse be following me?" he asked himself, biting his
yellow moustache. "I stopped too long up in that room, so that even
such leaden feet could catch me up. One comfort is, with a little brisk
walking I can put a man like that as far away as Timbuctoo. Or am I too
fanciful? Was he really following me? Surely Sunday would not be such a
fool as to send a lame man?"

He set off at a smart pace, twisting and whirling his stick, in the
direction of Covent Garden. As he crossed the great market the snow
increased, growing blinding and bewildering as the afternoon began
to darken. The snow-flakes tormented him like a swarm of silver bees.
Getting into his eyes and beard, they added their unremitting futility
to his already irritated nerves; and by the time that he had come at a
swinging pace to the beginning of Fleet Street, he lost patience, and
finding a Sunday teashop, turned into it to take shelter. He ordered
another cup of black coffee as an excuse. Scarcely had he done so,
when Professor de Worms hobbled heavily into the shop, sat down with
difficulty and ordered a glass of milk.

Syme's walking-stick had fallen from his hand with a great clang, which
confessed the concealed steel. But the Professor did not look round.
Syme, who was commonly a cool character, was literally gaping as a
rustic gapes at a conjuring trick. He had seen no cab following; he had
heard no wheels outside the shop; to all mortal appearances the man had
come on foot. But the old man could only walk like a snail, and Syme had
walked like the wind. He started up and snatched his stick, half crazy
with the contradiction in mere arithmetic, and swung out of the swinging
doors, leaving his coffee untasted. An omnibus going to the Bank went
rattling by with an unusual rapidity. He had a violent run of a
hundred yards to reach it; but he managed to spring, swaying upon the
splash-board and, pausing for an instant to pant, he climbed on to the
top. When he had been seated for about half a minute, he heard behind
him a sort of heavy and asthmatic breathing.

Turning sharply, he saw rising gradually higher and higher up the
omnibus steps a top hat soiled and dripping with snow, and under
the shadow of its brim the short-sighted face and shaky shoulders of
Professor de Worms. He let himself into a seat with characteristic care,
and wrapped himself up to the chin in the mackintosh rug.

Every movement of the old man's tottering figure and vague hands, every
uncertain gesture and panic-stricken pause, seemed to put it beyond
question that he was helpless, that he was in the last imbecility of
the body. He moved by inches, he let himself down with little gasps
of caution. And yet, unless the philosophical entities called time and
space have no vestige even of a practical existence, it appeared quite
unquestionable that he had run after the omnibus.

Syme sprang erect upon the rocking car, and after staring wildly at the
wintry sky, that grew gloomier every moment, he ran down the steps. He
had repressed an elemental impulse to leap over the side.

Too bewildered to look back or to reason, he rushed into one of the
little courts at the side of Fleet Street as a rabbit rushes into a
hole. He had a vague idea, if this incomprehensible old Jack-in-the-box
was really pursuing him, that in that labyrinth of little streets he
could soon throw him off the scent. He dived in and out of those crooked
lanes, which were more like cracks than thoroughfares; and by the time
that he had completed about twenty alternate angles and described an
unthinkable polygon, he paused to listen for any sound of pursuit. There
was none; there could not in any case have been much, for the little
streets were thick with the soundless snow. Somewhere behind Red Lion
Court, however, he noticed a place where some energetic citizen had
cleared away the snow for a space of about twenty yards, leaving the
wet, glistening cobble-stones. He thought little of this as he passed
it, only plunging into yet another arm of the maze. But when a few
hundred yards farther on he stood still again to listen, his heart stood
still also, for he heard from that space of rugged stones the clinking
crutch and labouring feet of the infernal cripple.

The sky above was loaded with the clouds of snow, leaving London in a
darkness and oppression premature for that hour of the evening. On each
side of Syme the walls of the alley were blind and featureless; there
was no little window or any kind of eve. He felt a new impulse to break
out of this hive of houses, and to get once more into the open and
lamp-lit street. Yet he rambled and dodged for a long time before he
struck the main thoroughfare. When he did so, he struck it much farther
up than he had fancied. He came out into what seemed the vast and void
of Ludgate Circus, and saw St. Paul's Cathedral sitting in the sky.

At first he was startled to find these great roads so empty, as if a
pestilence had swept through the city. Then he told himself that some
degree of emptiness was natural; first because the snow-storm was even
dangerously deep, and secondly because it was Sunday. And at the very
word Sunday he bit his lip; the word was henceforth for hire like some
indecent pun. Under the white fog of snow high up in the heaven the
whole atmosphere of the city was turned to a very queer kind of green
twilight, as of men under the sea. The sealed and sullen sunset
behind the dark dome of St. Paul's had in it smoky and sinister
colours--colours of sickly green, dead red or decaying bronze, that were
just bright enough to emphasise the solid whiteness of the snow.
But right up against these dreary colours rose the black bulk of the
cathedral; and upon the top of the cathedral was a random splash and
great stain of snow, still clinging as to an Alpine peak. It had fallen
accidentally, but just so fallen as to half drape the dome from its very
topmost point, and to pick out in perfect silver the great orb and the
cross. When Syme saw it he suddenly straightened himself, and made with
his sword-stick an involuntary salute.

He knew that that evil figure, his shadow, was creeping quickly or
slowly behind him, and he did not care.

It seemed a symbol of human faith and valour that while the skies were
darkening that high place of the earth was bright. The devils might have
captured heaven, but they had not yet captured the cross. He had a new
impulse to tear out the secret of this dancing, jumping and pursuing
paralytic; and at the entrance of the court as it opened upon the Circus
he turned, stick in hand, to face his pursuer.

Professor de Worms came slowly round the corner of the irregular alley
behind him, his unnatural form outlined against a lonely gas-lamp,
irresistibly recalling that very imaginative figure in the nursery
rhymes, "the crooked man who went a crooked mile." He really looked as
if he had been twisted out of shape by the tortuous streets he had
been threading. He came nearer and nearer, the lamplight shining on his
lifted spectacles, his lifted, patient face. Syme waited for him as St.
George waited for the dragon, as a man waits for a final explanation
or for death. And the old Professor came right up to him and passed him
like a total stranger, without even a blink of his mournful eyelids.

There was something in this silent and unexpected innocence that left
Syme in a final fury. The man's colourless face and manner seemed
to assert that the whole following had been an accident. Syme was
galvanised with an energy that was something between bitterness and a
burst of boyish derision. He made a wild gesture as if to knock the old
man's hat off, called out something like "Catch me if you can," and went
racing away across the white, open Circus. Concealment was impossible
now; and looking back over his shoulder, he could see the black figure
of the old gentleman coming after him with long, swinging strides like a
man winning a mile race. But the head upon that bounding body was still
pale, grave and professional, like the head of a lecturer upon the body
of a harlequin.

This outrageous chase sped across Ludgate Circus, up Ludgate Hill,
round St. Paul's Cathedral, along Cheapside, Syme remembering all the
nightmares he had ever known. Then Syme broke away towards the river,
and ended almost down by the docks. He saw the yellow panes of a low,
lighted public-house, flung himself into it and ordered beer. It was a
foul tavern, sprinkled with foreign sailors, a place where opium might
be smoked or knives drawn.

A moment later Professor de Worms entered the place, sat down carefully,
and asked for a glass of milk.


CHAPTER VIII. THE PROFESSOR EXPLAINS

WHEN Gabriel Syme found himself finally established in a chair, and
opposite to him, fixed and final also, the lifted eyebrows and
leaden eyelids of the Professor, his fears fully returned. This
incomprehensible man from the fierce council, after all, had certainly
pursued him. If the man had one character as a paralytic and another
character as a pursuer, the antithesis might make him more interesting,
but scarcely more soothing. It would be a very small comfort that
he could not find the Professor out, if by some serious accident the
Professor should find him out. He emptied a whole pewter pot of ale
before the professor had touched his milk.

One possibility, however, kept him hopeful and yet helpless. It was just
possible that this escapade signified something other than even a slight
suspicion of him. Perhaps it was some regular form or sign. Perhaps the
foolish scamper was some sort of friendly signal that he ought to have
understood. Perhaps it was a ritual. Perhaps the new Thursday was always
chased along Cheapside, as the new Lord Mayor is always escorted along
it. He was just selecting a tentative inquiry, when the old Professor
opposite suddenly and simply cut him short. Before Syme could ask the
first diplomatic question, the old anarchist had asked suddenly, without
any sort of preparation--

"Are you a policeman?"

Whatever else Syme had expected, he had never expected anything so
brutal and actual as this. Even his great presence of mind could only
manage a reply with an air of rather blundering jocularity.

"A policeman?" he said, laughing vaguely. "Whatever made you think of a
policeman in connection with me?"

"The process was simple enough," answered the Professor patiently. "I
thought you looked like a policeman. I think so now."

"Did I take a policeman's hat by mistake out of the restaurant?" asked
Syme, smiling wildly. "Have I by any chance got a number stuck on to
me somewhere? Have my boots got that watchful look? Why must I be a
policeman? Do, do let me be a postman."

The old Professor shook his head with a gravity that gave no hope, but
Syme ran on with a feverish irony.

"But perhaps I misunderstood the delicacies of your German philosophy.
Perhaps policeman is a relative term. In an evolutionary sense, sir,
the ape fades so gradually into the policeman, that I myself can never
detect the shade. The monkey is only the policeman that may be. Perhaps
a maiden lady on Clapham Common is only the policeman that might have
been. I don't mind being the policeman that might have been. I don't
mind being anything in German thought."

"Are you in the police service?" said the old man, ignoring all Syme's
improvised and desperate raillery. "Are you a detective?"

Syme's heart turned to stone, but his face never changed.

"Your suggestion is ridiculous," he began. "Why on earth--"

The old man struck his palsied hand passionately on the rickety table,
nearly breaking it.

"Did you hear me ask a plain question, you pattering spy?" he shrieked
in a high, crazy voice. "Are you, or are you not, a police detective?"

"No!" answered Syme, like a man standing on the hangman's drop.

"You swear it," said the old man, leaning across to him, his dead face
becoming as it were loathsomely alive. "You swear it! You swear it! If
you swear falsely, will you be damned? Will you be sure that the devil
dances at your funeral? Will you see that the nightmare sits on your
grave? Will there really be no mistake? You are an anarchist, you are a
dynamiter! Above all, you are not in any sense a detective? You are not
in the British police?"

He leant his angular elbow far across the table, and put up his large
loose hand like a flap to his ear.

"I am not in the British police," said Syme with insane calm.

Professor de Worms fell back in his chair with a curious air of kindly
collapse.

"That's a pity," he said, "because I am."

Syme sprang up straight, sending back the bench behind him with a crash.

"Because you are what?" he said thickly. "You are what?"

"I am a policeman," said the Professor with his first broad smile.
and beaming through his spectacles. "But as you think policeman only
a relative term, of course I have nothing to do with you. I am in the
British police force; but as you tell me you are not in the British
police force, I can only say that I met you in a dynamiters' club. I
suppose I ought to arrest you." And with these words he laid on the
table before Syme an exact facsimile of the blue card which Syme had in
his own waistcoat pocket, the symbol of his power from the police.

Syme had for a flash the sensation that the cosmos had turned exactly
upside down, that all trees were growing downwards and that all stars
were under his feet. Then came slowly the opposite conviction. For the
last twenty-four hours the cosmos had really been upside down, but now
the capsized universe had come right side up again. This devil from whom
he had been fleeing all day was only an elder brother of his own house,
who on the other side of the table lay back and laughed at him. He did
not for the moment ask any questions of detail; he only knew the
happy and silly fact that this shadow, which had pursued him with an
intolerable oppression of peril, was only the shadow of a friend trying
to catch him up. He knew simultaneously that he was a fool and a free
man. For with any recovery from morbidity there must go a certain
healthy humiliation. There comes a certain point in such conditions when
only three things are possible: first a perpetuation of Satanic pride,
secondly tears, and third laughter. Syme's egotism held hard to the
first course for a few seconds, and then suddenly adopted the third.
Taking his own blue police ticket from his own waist coat pocket, he
tossed it on to the table; then he flung his head back until his spike
of yellow beard almost pointed at the ceiling, and shouted with a
barbaric laughter.

Even in that close den, perpetually filled with the din of knives,
plates, cans, clamorous voices, sudden struggles and stampedes, there
was something Homeric in Syme's mirth which made many half-drunken men
look round.

"What yer laughing at, guv'nor?" asked one wondering labourer from the
docks.

"At myself," answered Syme, and went off again into the agony of his
ecstatic reaction.

"Pull yourself together," said the Professor, "or you'll get hysterical.
Have some more beer. I'll join you."

"You haven't drunk your milk," said Syme.

"My milk!" said the other, in tones of withering and unfathomable
contempt, "my milk! Do you think I'd look at the beastly stuff when
I'm out of sight of the bloody anarchists? We're all Christians in this
room, though perhaps," he added, glancing around at the reeling crowd,
"not strict ones. Finish my milk? Great blazes! yes, I'll finish it
right enough!" and he knocked the tumbler off the table, making a crash
of glass and a splash of silver fluid.

Syme was staring at him with a happy curiosity.

"I understand now," he cried; "of course, you're not an old man at all."

"I can't take my face off here," replied Professor de Worms. "It's
rather an elaborate make-up. As to whether I'm an old man, that's not
for me to say. I was thirty-eight last birthday."

"Yes, but I mean," said Syme impatiently, "there's nothing the matter
with you."

"Yes," answered the other dispassionately. "I am subject to colds."

Syme's laughter at all this had about it a wild weakness of relief.
He laughed at the idea of the paralytic Professor being really a young
actor dressed up as if for the foot-lights. But he felt that he would
have laughed as loudly if a pepperpot had fallen over.

The false Professor drank and wiped his false beard.

"Did you know," he asked, "that that man Gogol was one of us?"

"I? No, I didn't know it," answered Syme in some surprise. "But didn't
you?"

"I knew no more than the dead," replied the man who called himself de
Worms. "I thought the President was talking about me, and I rattled in
my boots."

"And I thought he was talking about me," said Syme, with his rather
reckless laughter. "I had my hand on my revolver all the time."

"So had I," said the Professor grimly; "so had Gogol evidently."

Syme struck the table with an exclamation.

"Why, there were three of us there!" he cried. "Three out of seven is a
fighting number. If we had only known that we were three!"

The face of Professor de Worms darkened, and he did not look up.

"We were three," he said. "If we had been three hundred we could still
have done nothing."

"Not if we were three hundred against four?" asked Syme, jeering rather
boisterously.

"No," said the Professor with sobriety, "not if we were three hundred
against Sunday."

And the mere name struck Syme cold and serious; his laughter had died in
his heart before it could die on his lips. The face of the unforgettable
President sprang into his mind as startling as a coloured photograph,
and he remarked this difference between Sunday and all his satellites,
that their faces, however fierce or sinister, became gradually blurred
by memory like other human faces, whereas Sunday's seemed almost to grow
more actual during absence, as if a man's painted portrait should slowly
come alive.

They were both silent for a measure of moments, and then Syme's speech
came with a rush, like the sudden foaming of champagne.

"Professor," he cried, "it is intolerable. Are you afraid of this man?"

The Professor lifted his heavy lids, and gazed at Syme with large,
wide-open, blue eyes of an almost ethereal honesty.

"Yes, I am," he said mildly. "So are you."

Syme was dumb for an instant. Then he rose to his feet erect, like an
insulted man, and thrust the chair away from him.

"Yes," he said in a voice indescribable, "you are right. I am afraid of
him. Therefore I swear by God that I will seek out this man whom I fear
until I find him, and strike him on the mouth. If heaven were his throne
and the earth his footstool, I swear that I would pull him down."

"How?" asked the staring Professor. "Why?"

"Because I am afraid of him," said Syme; "and no man should leave in the
universe anything of which he is afraid."

De Worms blinked at him with a sort of blind wonder. He made an effort
to speak, but Syme went on in a low voice, but with an undercurrent of
inhuman exaltation--

"Who would condescend to strike down the mere things that he does not
fear? Who would debase himself to be merely brave, like any common
prizefighter? Who would stoop to be fearless--like a tree? Fight the
thing that you fear. You remember the old tale of the English clergyman
who gave the last rites to the brigand of Sicily, and how on his
death-bed the great robber said, 'I can give you no money, but I can
give you advice for a lifetime: your thumb on the blade, and strike
upwards.' So I say to you, strike upwards, if you strike at the stars."

The other looked at the ceiling, one of the tricks of his pose.

"Sunday is a fixed star," he said.

"You shall see him a falling star," said Syme, and put on his hat.

The decision of his gesture drew the Professor vaguely to his feet.

"Have you any idea," he asked, with a sort of benevolent bewilderment,
"exactly where you are going?"

"Yes," replied Syme shortly, "I am going to prevent this bomb being
thrown in Paris."

"Have you any conception how?" inquired the other.

"No," said Syme with equal decision.

"You remember, of course," resumed the soi-disant de Worms, pulling
his beard and looking out of the window, "that when we broke up rather
hurriedly the whole arrangements for the atrocity were left in the
private hands of the Marquis and Dr. Bull. The Marquis is by this time
probably crossing the Channel. But where he will go and what he will
do it is doubtful whether even the President knows; certainly we don't
know. The only man who does know is Dr. Bull."

"Confound it!" cried Syme. "And we don't know where he is."

"Yes," said the other in his curious, absent-minded way, "I know where
he is myself."

"Will you tell me?" asked Syme with eager eyes.

"I will take you there," said the Professor, and took down his own hat
from a peg.

Syme stood looking at him with a sort of rigid excitement.

"What do you mean?" he asked sharply. "Will you join me? Will you take
the risk?"

"Young man," said the Professor pleasantly, "I am amused to observe that
you think I am a coward. As to that I will say only one word, and that
shall be entirely in the manner of your own philosophical rhetoric. You
think that it is possible to pull down the President. I know that it
is impossible, and I am going to try it," and opening the tavern door,
which let in a blast of bitter air, they went out together into the dark
streets by the docks.

Most of the snow was melted or trampled to mud, but here and there a
clot of it still showed grey rather than white in the gloom. The small
streets were sloppy and full of pools, which reflected the flaming lamps
irregularly, and by accident, like fragments of some other and fallen
world. Syme felt almost dazed as he stepped through this growing
confusion of lights and shadows; but his companion walked on with a
certain briskness, towards where, at the end of the street, an inch or
two of the lamplit river looked like a bar of flame.

"Where are you going?" Syme inquired.

"Just now," answered the Professor, "I am going just round the corner
to see whether Dr. Bull has gone to bed. He is hygienic, and retires
early."

"Dr. Bull!" exclaimed Syme. "Does he live round the corner?"

"No," answered his friend. "As a matter of fact he lives some way off,
on the other side of the river, but we can tell from here whether he has
gone to bed."

Turning the corner as he spoke, and facing the dim river, flecked with
flame, he pointed with his stick to the other bank. On the Surrey side
at this point there ran out into the Thames, seeming almost to overhang
it, a bulk and cluster of those tall tenements, dotted with lighted
windows, and rising like factory chimneys to an almost insane height.
Their special poise and position made one block of buildings especially
look like a Tower of Babel with a hundred eyes. Syme had never seen any
of the sky-scraping buildings in America, so he could only think of the
buildings in a dream.

Even as he stared, the highest light in this innumerably lighted turret
abruptly went out, as if this black Argus had winked at him with one of
his innumerable eyes.

Professor de Worms swung round on his heel, and struck his stick against
his boot.

"We are too late," he said, "the hygienic Doctor has gone to bed."

"What do you mean?" asked Syme. "Does he live over there, then?"

"Yes," said de Worms, "behind that particular window which you can't
see. Come along and get some dinner. We must call on him tomorrow
morning."

Without further parley, he led the way through several by-ways until
they came out into the flare and clamour of the East India Dock Road.
The Professor, who seemed to know his way about the neighbourhood,
proceeded to a place where the line of lighted shops fell back into a
sort of abrupt twilight and quiet, in which an old white inn, all out of
repair, stood back some twenty feet from the road.

"You can find good English inns left by accident everywhere, like
fossils," explained the Professor. "I once found a decent place in the
West End."

"I suppose," said Syme, smiling, "that this is the corresponding decent
place in the East End?"

"It is," said the Professor reverently, and went in.

In that place they dined and slept, both very thoroughly. The beans and
bacon, which these unaccountable people cooked well, the astonishing
emergence of Burgundy from their cellars, crowned Syme's sense of a new
comradeship and comfort. Through all this ordeal his root horror had
been isolation, and there are no words to express the abyss between
isolation and having one ally. It may be conceded to the mathematicians
that four is twice two. But two is not twice one; two is two thousand
times one. That is why, in spite of a hundred disadvantages, the world
will always return to monogamy.

Syme was able to pour out for the first time the whole of his outrageous
tale, from the time when Gregory had taken him to the little tavern by
the river. He did it idly and amply, in a luxuriant monologue, as a
man speaks with very old friends. On his side, also, the man who had
impersonated Professor de Worms was not less communicative. His own
story was almost as silly as Syme's.

"That's a good get-up of yours," said Syme, draining a glass of Macon;
"a lot better than old Gogol's. Even at the start I thought he was a bit
too hairy."

"A difference of artistic theory," replied the Professor pensively.
"Gogol was an idealist. He made up as the abstract or platonic ideal of
an anarchist. But I am a realist. I am a portrait painter. But, indeed,
to say that I am a portrait painter is an inadequate expression. I am a
portrait."

"I don't understand you," said Syme.

"I am a portrait," repeated the Professor. "I am a portrait of the
celebrated Professor de Worms, who is, I believe, in Naples."

"You mean you are made up like him," said Syme. "But doesn't he know
that you are taking his nose in vain?"

"He knows it right enough," replied his friend cheerfully.

"Then why doesn't he denounce you?"

"I have denounced him," answered the Professor.

"Do explain yourself," said Syme.

"With pleasure, if you don't mind hearing my story," replied the eminent
foreign philosopher. "I am by profession an actor, and my name is
Wilks. When I was on the stage I mixed with all sorts of Bohemian and
blackguard company. Sometimes I touched the edge of the turf, sometimes
the riff-raff of the arts, and occasionally the political refugee.
In some den of exiled dreamers I was introduced to the great German
Nihilist philosopher, Professor de Worms. I did not gather much about
him beyond his appearance, which was very disgusting, and which I
studied carefully. I understood that he had proved that the destructive
principle in the universe was God; hence he insisted on the need for a
furious and incessant energy, rending all things in pieces. Energy, he
said, was the All. He was lame, shortsighted, and partially paralytic.
When I met him I was in a frivolous mood, and I disliked him so much
that I resolved to imitate him. If I had been a draughtsman I would have
drawn a caricature. I was only an actor, I could only act a caricature.
I made myself up into what was meant for a wild exaggeration of the
old Professor's dirty old self. When I went into the room full of his
supporters I expected to be received with a roar of laughter, or (if
they were too far gone) with a roar of indignation at the insult. I
cannot describe the surprise I felt when my entrance was received with
a respectful silence, followed (when I had first opened my lips) with
a murmur of admiration. The curse of the perfect artist had fallen upon
me. I had been too subtle, I had been too true. They thought I really
was the great Nihilist Professor. I was a healthy-minded young man
at the time, and I confess that it was a blow. Before I could fully
recover, however, two or three of these admirers ran up to me radiating
indignation, and told me that a public insult had been put upon me in
the next room. I inquired its nature. It seemed that an impertinent
fellow had dressed himself up as a preposterous parody of myself. I had
drunk more champagne than was good for me, and in a flash of folly I
decided to see the situation through. Consequently it was to meet the
glare of the company and my own lifted eyebrows and freezing eyes that
the real Professor came into the room.

"I need hardly say there was a collision. The pessimists all round me
looked anxiously from one Professor to the other Professor to see which
was really the more feeble. But I won. An old man in poor health, like
my rival, could not be expected to be so impressively feeble as a
young actor in the prime of life. You see, he really had paralysis,
and working within this definite limitation, he couldn't be so jolly
paralytic as I was. Then he tried to blast my claims intellectually. I
countered that by a very simple dodge. Whenever he said something that
nobody but he could understand, I replied with something which I could
not even understand myself. 'I don't fancy,' he said, 'that you could
have worked out the principle that evolution is only negation, since
there inheres in it the introduction of lacuna, which are an essential
of differentiation.' I replied quite scornfully, 'You read all that up
in Pinckwerts; the notion that involution functioned eugenically was
exposed long ago by Glumpe.' It is unnecessary for me to say that there
never were such people as Pinckwerts and Glumpe. But the people all
round (rather to my surprise) seemed to remember them quite well, and
the Professor, finding that the learned and mysterious method left him
rather at the mercy of an enemy slightly deficient in scruples, fell
back upon a more popular form of wit. 'I see,' he sneered, 'you prevail
like the false pig in Aesop.' 'And you fail,' I answered, smiling, 'like
the hedgehog in Montaigne.' Need I say that there is no hedgehog in
Montaigne? 'Your claptrap comes off,' he said; 'so would your beard.'
I had no intelligent answer to this, which was quite true and rather
witty. But I laughed heartily, answered, 'Like the Pantheist's boots,'
at random, and turned on my heel with all the honours of victory. The
real Professor was thrown out, but not with violence, though one
man tried very patiently to pull off his nose. He is now, I believe,
received everywhere in Europe as a delightful impostor. His apparent
earnestness and anger, you see, make him all the more entertaining."

"Well," said Syme, "I can understand your putting on his dirty old beard
for a night's practical joke, but I don't understand your never taking
it off again."

"That is the rest of the story," said the impersonator. "When I myself
left the company, followed by reverent applause, I went limping down the
dark street, hoping that I should soon be far enough away to be able
to walk like a human being. To my astonishment, as I was turning the
corner, I felt a touch on the shoulder, and turning, found myself under
the shadow of an enormous policeman. He told me I was wanted. I struck
a sort of paralytic attitude, and cried in a high German accent, 'Yes,
I am wanted--by the oppressed of the world. You are arresting me on the
charge of being the great anarchist, Professor de Worms.' The policeman
impassively consulted a paper in his hand, 'No, sir,' he said civilly,
'at least, not exactly, sir. I am arresting you on the charge of not
being the celebrated anarchist, Professor de Worms.' This charge, if it
was criminal at all, was certainly the lighter of the two, and I went
along with the man, doubtful, but not greatly dismayed. I was shown into
a number of rooms, and eventually into the presence of a police officer,
who explained that a serious campaign had been opened against the
centres of anarchy, and that this, my successful masquerade, might be of
considerable value to the public safety. He offered me a good salary and
this little blue card. Though our conversation was short, he struck me
as a man of very massive common sense and humour; but I cannot tell you
much about him personally, because--"

Syme laid down his knife and fork.

"I know," he said, "because you talked to him in a dark room."

Professor de Worms nodded and drained his glass.


CHAPTER IX. THE MAN IN SPECTACLES

"BURGUNDY is a jolly thing," said the Professor sadly, as he set his
glass down.

"You don't look as if it were," said Syme; "you drink it as if it were
medicine."

"You must excuse my manner," said the Professor dismally, "my position
is rather a curious one. Inside I am really bursting with boyish
merriment; but I acted the paralytic Professor so well, that now I can't
leave off. So that when I am among friends, and have no need at all
to disguise myself, I still can't help speaking slow and wrinkling my
forehead--just as if it were my forehead. I can be quite happy, you
understand, but only in a paralytic sort of way. The most buoyant
exclamations leap up in my heart, but they come out of my mouth quite
different. You should hear me say, 'Buck up, old cock!' It would bring
tears to your eyes."

"It does," said Syme; "but I cannot help thinking that apart from all
that you are really a bit worried."

The Professor started a little and looked at him steadily.

"You are a very clever fellow," he said, "it is a pleasure to work
with you. Yes, I have rather a heavy cloud in my head. There is a great
problem to face," and he sank his bald brow in his two hands.

Then he said in a low voice--

"Can you play the piano?"

"Yes," said Syme in simple wonder, "I'm supposed to have a good touch."

Then, as the other did not speak, he added--

"I trust the great cloud is lifted."

After a long silence, the Professor said out of the cavernous shadow of
his hands--

"It would have done just as well if you could work a typewriter."

"Thank you," said Syme, "you flatter me."

"Listen to me," said the other, "and remember whom we have to see
tomorrow. You and I are going tomorrow to attempt something which is
very much more dangerous than trying to steal the Crown Jewels out
of the Tower. We are trying to steal a secret from a very sharp, very
strong, and very wicked man. I believe there is no man, except the
President, of course, who is so seriously startling and formidable as
that little grinning fellow in goggles. He has not perhaps the white-hot
enthusiasm unto death, the mad martyrdom for anarchy, which marks the
Secretary. But then that very fanaticism in the Secretary has a human
pathos, and is almost a redeeming trait. But the little Doctor has a
brutal sanity that is more shocking than the Secretary's disease. Don't
you notice his detestable virility and vitality. He bounces like an
india-rubber ball. Depend on it, Sunday was not asleep (I wonder if he
ever sleeps?) when he locked up all the plans of this outrage in the
round, black head of Dr. Bull."

"And you think," said Syme, "that this unique monster will be soothed if
I play the piano to him?"

"Don't be an ass," said his mentor. "I mentioned the piano because it
gives one quick and independent fingers. Syme, if we are to go through
this interview and come out sane or alive, we must have some code of
signals between us that this brute will not see. I have made a rough
alphabetical cypher corresponding to the five fingers--like this, see,"
and he rippled with his fingers on the wooden table--"B A D, bad, a word
we may frequently require."

Syme poured himself out another glass of wine, and began to study the
scheme. He was abnormally quick with his brains at puzzles, and with his
hands at conjuring, and it did not take him long to learn how he might
convey simple messages by what would seem to be idle taps upon a table
or knee. But wine and companionship had always the effect of inspiring
him to a farcical ingenuity, and the Professor soon found himself
struggling with the too vast energy of the new language, as it passed
through the heated brain of Syme.

"We must have several word-signs," said Syme seriously--"words that
we are likely to want, fine shades of meaning. My favourite word is
'coeval'. What's yours?"

"Do stop playing the goat," said the Professor plaintively. "You don't
know how serious this is."

"'Lush' too," said Syme, shaking his head sagaciously, "we must have
'lush'--word applied to grass, don't you know?"

"Do you imagine," asked the Professor furiously, "that we are going to
talk to Dr. Bull about grass?"

"There are several ways in which the subject could be approached," said
Syme reflectively, "and the word introduced without appearing forced.
We might say, 'Dr. Bull, as a revolutionist, you remember that a tyrant
once advised us to eat grass; and indeed many of us, looking on the
fresh lush grass of summer...'"

"Do you understand," said the other, "that this is a tragedy?"

"Perfectly," replied Syme; "always be comic in a tragedy. What the deuce
else can you do? I wish this language of yours had a wider scope. I
suppose we could not extend it from the fingers to the toes? That would
involve pulling off our boots and socks during the conversation, which
however unobtrusively performed--"

"Syme," said his friend with a stern simplicity, "go to bed!"

Syme, however, sat up in bed for a considerable time mastering the new
code. He was awakened next morning while the east was still sealed with
darkness, and found his grey-bearded ally standing like a ghost beside
his bed.

Syme sat up in bed blinking; then slowly collected his thoughts, threw
off the bed-clothes, and stood up. It seemed to him in some curious way
that all the safety and sociability of the night before fell with the
bedclothes off him, and he stood up in an air of cold danger. He still
felt an entire trust and loyalty towards his companion; but it was the
trust between two men going to the scaffold.

"Well," said Syme with a forced cheerfulness as he pulled on his
trousers, "I dreamt of that alphabet of yours. Did it take you long to
make it up?"

The Professor made no answer, but gazed in front of him with eyes the
colour of a wintry sea; so Syme repeated his question.

"I say, did it take you long to invent all this? I'm considered good at
these things, and it was a good hour's grind. Did you learn it all on
the spot?"

The Professor was silent; his eyes were wide open, and he wore a fixed
but very small smile.

"How long did it take you?"

The Professor did not move.

"Confound you, can't you answer?" called out Syme, in a sudden anger
that had something like fear underneath. Whether or no the Professor
could answer, he did not.

Syme stood staring back at the stiff face like parchment and the blank,
blue eyes. His first thought was that the Professor had gone mad, but
his second thought was more frightful. After all, what did he know about
this queer creature whom he had heedlessly accepted as a friend? What
did he know, except that the man had been at the anarchist breakfast and
had told him a ridiculous tale? How improbable it was that there
should be another friend there beside Gogol! Was this man's silence a
sensational way of declaring war? Was this adamantine stare after all
only the awful sneer of some threefold traitor, who had turned for the
last time? He stood and strained his ears in this heartless silence.
He almost fancied he could hear dynamiters come to capture him shifting
softly in the corridor outside.

Then his eye strayed downwards, and he burst out laughing. Though the
Professor himself stood there as voiceless as a statue, his five
dumb fingers were dancing alive upon the dead table. Syme watched the
twinkling movements of the talking hand, and read clearly the message--

"I will only talk like this. We must get used to it."

He rapped out the answer with the impatience of relief--

"All right. Let's get out to breakfast."

They took their hats and sticks in silence; but as Syme took his
sword-stick, he held it hard.

They paused for a few minutes only to stuff down coffee and coarse thick
sandwiches at a coffee stall, and then made their way across the river,
which under the grey and growing light looked as desolate as Acheron.
They reached the bottom of the huge block of buildings which they had
seen from across the river, and began in silence to mount the naked and
numberless stone steps, only pausing now and then to make short remarks
on the rail of the banisters. At about every other flight they passed
a window; each window showed them a pale and tragic dawn lifting itself
laboriously over London. From each the innumerable roofs of slate looked
like the leaden surges of a grey, troubled sea after rain. Syme was
increasingly conscious that his new adventure had somehow a quality of
cold sanity worse than the wild adventures of the past. Last night, for
instance, the tall tenements had seemed to him like a tower in a dream.
As he now went up the weary and perpetual steps, he was daunted and
bewildered by their almost infinite series. But it was not the hot
horror of a dream or of anything that might be exaggeration or delusion.
Their infinity was more like the empty infinity of arithmetic, something
unthinkable, yet necessary to thought. Or it was like the stunning
statements of astronomy about the distance of the fixed stars. He
was ascending the house of reason, a thing more hideous than unreason
itself.

By the time they reached Dr. Bull's landing, a last window showed them
a harsh, white dawn edged with banks of a kind of coarse red, more like
red clay than red cloud. And when they entered Dr. Bull's bare garret it
was full of light.

Syme had been haunted by a half historic memory in connection with these
empty rooms and that austere daybreak. The moment he saw the garret
and Dr. Bull sitting writing at a table, he remembered what the memory
was--the French Revolution. There should have been the black outline of
a guillotine against that heavy red and white of the morning. Dr. Bull
was in his white shirt and black breeches only; his cropped, dark head
might well have just come out of its wig; he might have been Marat or a
more slipshod Robespierre.

Yet when he was seen properly, the French fancy fell away. The Jacobins
were idealists; there was about this man a murderous materialism. His
position gave him a somewhat new appearance. The strong, white light of
morning coming from one side creating sharp shadows, made him seem both
more pale and more angular than he had looked at the breakfast on the
balcony. Thus the two black glasses that encased his eyes might
really have been black cavities in his skull, making him look like a
death's-head. And, indeed, if ever Death himself sat writing at a wooden
table, it might have been he.

He looked up and smiled brightly enough as the men came in, and rose
with the resilient rapidity of which the Professor had spoken. He set
chairs for both of them, and going to a peg behind the door, proceeded
to put on a coat and waistcoat of rough, dark tweed; he buttoned it up
neatly, and came back to sit down at his table.

The quiet good humour of his manner left his two opponents helpless. It
was with some momentary difficulty that the Professor broke silence and
began, "I'm sorry to disturb you so early, comrade," said he, with a
careful resumption of the slow de Worms manner. "You have no doubt made
all the arrangements for the Paris affair?" Then he added with infinite
slowness, "We have information which renders intolerable anything in the
nature of a moment's delay."

Dr. Bull smiled again, but continued to gaze on them without speaking.
The Professor resumed, a pause before each weary word--

"Please do not think me excessively abrupt; but I advise you to alter
those plans, or if it is too late for that, to follow your agent with
all the support you can get for him. Comrade Syme and I have had an
experience which it would take more time to recount than we can afford,
if we are to act on it. I will, however, relate the occurrence in
detail, even at the risk of losing time, if you really feel that it is
essential to the understanding of the problem we have to discuss."

He was spinning out his sentences, making them intolerably long and
lingering, in the hope of maddening the practical little Doctor into an
explosion of impatience which might show his hand. But the little Doctor
continued only to stare and smile, and the monologue was uphill work.
Syme began to feel a new sickness and despair. The Doctor's smile and
silence were not at all like the cataleptic stare and horrible silence
which he had confronted in the Professor half an hour before. About the
Professor's makeup and all his antics there was always something merely
grotesque, like a gollywog. Syme remembered those wild woes of yesterday
as one remembers being afraid of Bogy in childhood. But here was
daylight; here was a healthy, square-shouldered man in tweeds, not odd
save for the accident of his ugly spectacles, not glaring or grinning at
all, but smiling steadily and not saying a word. The whole had a sense
of unbearable reality. Under the increasing sunlight the colours of
the Doctor's complexion, the pattern of his tweeds, grew and expanded
outrageously, as such things grow too important in a realistic novel.
But his smile was quite slight, the pose of his head polite; the only
uncanny thing was his silence.

"As I say," resumed the Professor, like a man toiling through heavy
sand, "the incident that has occurred to us and has led us to ask for
information about the Marquis, is one which you may think it better to
have narrated; but as it came in the way of Comrade Syme rather than
me--"

His words he seemed to be dragging out like words in an anthem; but
Syme, who was watching, saw his long fingers rattle quickly on the edge
of the crazy table. He read the message, "You must go on. This devil has
sucked me dry!"

Syme plunged into the breach with that bravado of improvisation which
always came to him when he was alarmed.

"Yes, the thing really happened to me," he said hastily. "I had the good
fortune to fall into conversation with a detective who took me, thanks
to my hat, for a respectable person. Wishing to clinch my reputation for
respectability, I took him and made him very drunk at the Savoy. Under
this influence he became friendly, and told me in so many words that
within a day or two they hope to arrest the Marquis in France.

"So unless you or I can get on his track--"

The Doctor was still smiling in the most friendly way, and his protected
eyes were still impenetrable. The Professor signalled to Syme that he
would resume his explanation, and he began again with the same elaborate
calm.

"Syme immediately brought this information to me, and we came here
together to see what use you would be inclined to make of it. It seems
to me unquestionably urgent that--"

All this time Syme had been staring at the Doctor almost as steadily
as the Doctor stared at the Professor, but quite without the smile. The
nerves of both comrades-in-arms were near snapping under that strain of
motionless amiability, when Syme suddenly leant forward and idly
tapped the edge of the table. His message to his ally ran, "I have an
intuition."

The Professor, with scarcely a pause in his monologue, signalled back,
"Then sit on it."

Syme telegraphed, "It is quite extraordinary."

The other answered, "Extraordinary rot!"

Syme said, "I am a poet."

The other retorted, "You are a dead man."

Syme had gone quite red up to his yellow hair, and his eyes were burning
feverishly. As he said he had an intuition, and it had risen to a sort
of lightheaded certainty. Resuming his symbolic taps, he signalled to
his friend, "You scarcely realise how poetic my intuition is. It has
that sudden quality we sometimes feel in the coming of spring."

He then studied the answer on his friend's fingers. The answer was, "Go
to hell!"

The Professor then resumed his merely verbal monologue addressed to the
Doctor.

"Perhaps I should rather say," said Syme on his fingers, "that it
resembles that sudden smell of the sea which may be found in the heart
of lush woods."

His companion disdained to reply.

"Or yet again," tapped Syme, "it is positive, as is the passionate red
hair of a beautiful woman."

The Professor was continuing his speech, but in the middle of it Syme
decided to act. He leant across the table, and said in a voice that
could not be neglected--

"Dr. Bull!"

The Doctor's sleek and smiling head did not move, but they could have
sworn that under his dark glasses his eyes darted towards Syme.

"Dr. Bull," said Syme, in a voice peculiarly precise and courteous,
"would you do me a small favour? Would you be so kind as to take off
your spectacles?"

The Professor swung round on his seat, and stared at Syme with a sort
of frozen fury of astonishment. Syme, like a man who has thrown his life
and fortune on the table, leaned forward with a fiery face. The Doctor
did not move.

For a few seconds there was a silence in which one could hear a pin
drop, split once by the single hoot of a distant steamer on the Thames.
Then Dr. Bull rose slowly, still smiling, and took off his spectacles.

Syme sprang to his feet, stepping backwards a little, like a chemical
lecturer from a successful explosion. His eyes were like stars, and for
an instant he could only point without speaking.

The Professor had also started to his feet, forgetful of his supposed
paralysis. He leant on the back of the chair and stared doubtfully at
Dr. Bull, as if the Doctor had been turned into a toad before his eyes.
And indeed it was almost as great a transformation scene.

The two detectives saw sitting in the chair before them a very
boyish-looking young man, with very frank and happy hazel eyes, an
open expression, cockney clothes like those of a city clerk, and
an unquestionable breath about him of being very good and rather
commonplace. They seem, like _Hermione_ (Don Marquis's heroine), to be
anxiously asking themselves, "Have I failed to-day, or have I not?"

Introspective people who are fearful of others, fearful of themselves,
are never successfully popular hosts or hostesses. If you for instance,
are one of these, if you are _really_ afraid of knowing some one who
might some day prove unpleasant, if you are such a snob that you can't
take people at their face value, then why make the effort to bother
with people at all?

Why not shut your front door tight and pull down the blinds and, sitting
before a mirror in your own drawing-room, order tea for two?

[Illustration: "THE PERFECT EXAMPLE OF A FORMAL DINNER TABLE OF WEALTH,
LUXURY AND TASTE, WHICH INVOLVES NO EFFORT ON THE PART OF THE HOSTESS
OF A GREAT HOUSE BEYOND DECIDING UPON THE DATE AND THE PRINCIPAL
GUESTS WHO ARE TO FORM THE NUCLEUS OF THE PARTY."

[Page 177.]]

CHAPTER XIV
FORMAL DINNERS 

=NOT FOR THE NOVICE TO ATTEMPT=
If the great world of society were a university which issued degrees
to those whom it trains to its usages, the _magna cum laude_ honors
would be awarded without question, not to the hostess who may have
given the most marvelous ball of the decade, but to her who knows
best every component detail of preparation and service, no less
than every inexorable rule of etiquette, in formal dinner-giving.

To give a perfect dinner of ceremony is the supreme accomplishment
of a hostess! It means not alone perfection of furnishing, of service,
of culinary skill, but also of personal charm, of tact. The only other
occasion when a hostess must have equal--and possibly even greater
ability--is the large and somewhat formal week-end party, which
includes a dinner or two as by no means its least formidable
features.

There are so many aspects to be considered in dinner giving that it is
difficult to know whether to begin up-stairs or down, or with furnishing,
or service, or people, or manners! One thing is certain, no novice should
ever begin her social career by attempting a formal dinner, any
more than a pupil swimmer, upon being able to take three strokes
alone, should attempt to swim three miles out to sea.

The former will as surely drown as the latter.

=HOW A DINNER IS GIVEN IN A GREAT HOUSE=
When Mrs.

Worldly gives a dinner, it means no effort on her part whatsoever beyond
deciding upon the date and the principal guests who are to form the
nucleus; every further detail is left to her subordinates--even
to the completion of her list of guests.

For instance, she decides that she will have an "older" dinner, and
finding that the tenth is available for herself, she tells her
secretary to send out invitations for that date.

She does not have especial cards engraved but uses the dinner blank
described in the chapter on Invitations.

She then looks through her "dinner list" and orders her secretary to
invite the Oldworlds, the Eminents, the Learneds, the Wellborns,
the Highbrows, and the Onceweres.

She also picks out three or four additional names to be substituted
for those who regret.

Then turning to the "younger married" list she searches for a few suitable
but "amusing" or good-looking ones to give life to her dinner which might
otherwise be heavy. But her favorites do not seem appropriate. It will
not do to ask the Bobo Gildings, not because of the difference in age
but because Lucy Gilding smokes like a furnace and is miserable
unless she can play bridge for high stakes, and, just as soon as
she can bolt through dinner, sit at a card table; while Mrs.

Highbrow and Mrs. Oncewere quite possibly disapprove of women's
smoking and are surely horrified at "gambling." The Smartlings won't
do either, for the same reason, nor the Gaylies. She can't ask the Newell
Riches either, because Mrs.

Oldworld and Mrs. Wellborn both dislike vulgarity too much to find
compensation in qualities which are merely amusing.

So she ends by adding her own friends the Kindharts and the Normans,
who "go" with everyone, and a few somewhat younger people, and
approves her secretary's suggestions as to additional names if those
first invited should "regret."

The list being settled, Mrs. Worldly's own work is done. She sends word
to her cook that there will be twenty-four on the tenth; the menu
will be submitted to her later, which she will probably merely glance
at and send back. She never sees or thinks about her table, which is
in the butler's province.

On the morning of the dinner her secretary brings her the place cards,
(the name of each person expected, written on a separate card) and she
puts them in the order in which they are to be placed on the table,
very much as though playing solitaire. Starting with her own card at one
end and her husband's at the other, she first places the lady of honor
on his right, the second in importance on his left. Then on either side
of herself, she puts the two most important gentlemen. The others she
fits in between, trying to seat side by side those congenial to
each other.

[Illustration: "DETAIL OF PLACE SET AT A FORMAL DINNER TABLE OF A
GREAT HOUSE." [Page 179.]]
When the cards are arranged, the secretary attends to putting the name of
the lady who sits on each gentleman's right in the envelope addressed
to him. She then picks up the place cards still stacked in their proper
sequence, and takes them to the butler who will put them in the order
arranged on the table after it is set.

Fifteen minutes before the dinner hour, Mrs.

Worldly is already standing in her drawing-room.

She has no personal responsibility other than that of being hostess.
The whole machinery of equipment and service runs seemingly by itself.
It does not matter whether she knows what the menu is.

Her cook is more than capable of attending to it.

That the table shall be perfect is merely the every-day duty of the
butler.

She knows without looking that one of the chauffeurs is on the sidewalk;
that footmen are in the hall; that her own maid is in the ladies'
dressing-room, and the valet in that of the gentlemen; and that her
butler is just outside the door near which she is standing.

So with nothing on her mind (except a jewelled ornament and perfectly
"done" hair) she receives her guests with the tranquillity attained
only by those whose household--whether great or small--can be counted
on to run like a perfectly coordinated machine.

=HOW A DINNER CAN BE BUNGLED=

This is the contrasting picture to the dinner at the Worldly's--a
picture to show you particularly who are a bride how awful an experiment
in dinner giving can be.

Let us suppose that you have a quite charming house, and that your
wedding presents included everything necessary to set a well-appointed
table.

You have not very experienced servants, but they would all be good ones
with a little more training.

You have been at home for so few meals you don't quite know how experienced
they are. Your cook at least makes good coffee and eggs and toast for
breakfast, and the few other meals she has cooked seemed to be all
right, and she is such a nice clean person!

So when your house is "in order" and the last pictures and curtains
are hung, the impulse suddenly comes to you to give a dinner!

Your husband thinks it is a splendid idea. It merely remains to decide
whom you will ask.

You hesitate between a few of your own intimates, or older people, and
decide it would be such fun to ask a few of the hostesses whose
houses you have almost lived at ever since you "came out."

You decide to ask Mrs.
Toplofty, Mr.

Clubwin Doe, the Worldlys, the Gildings, and the Kindharts and the Wellborns.
With yourselves that makes twelve.

You can't have more than twelve because you have only a dozen of
everything; in fact you decide that twelve will be pretty crowded,
but that it will be safe to ask that number because a few are sure
to "regret."

So you write notes (since it is to be a formal dinner), and--they all
accept! You are a little worried about the size of the dining-room, but
you are overcome by the feeling of your popularity. Now the thing to
do is to prepare for a dinner. The fact that Nora probably can't make
fancy dishes does not bother you a bit.

In your mind's eye you see delicious plain food passed; you must get
Sigrid a dress that properly fits her, and Delia, the chambermaid (who
was engaged with the understanding that she was to serve in the dining-room
when there was company), has not yet been at table, but she is a very
willing young person who will surely look well.

Nora, when you tell her who are coming, eagerly suggests the sort of menu
that would appear on the table of the Worldlys or the Gildings. You are
thrilled at the thought of your own kitchen producing the same. That it
may be the same in name only, does not occur to you. You order flowers
for the table, and candy for your four compotiers. You pick out your best
tablecloth, but you find rather to your amazement that when the waitress
asks you about setting the table, you have never noticed in detail how
the places are laid.

Knives and spoons go on the right of the plate, of course, and forks
on the left, but which goes next to the plate, or whether the wine
glasses should stand nearer or beyond the goblet you can only guess.

It is quite simple, however, to give directions in serving; you
just tell the chambermaid that she is to follow the waitress, and
pass the sauces and the vegetables.

And you have already explained carefully to the latter that she
must not deal plates around the table like a pack of cards, or ever
take them off in piles either.

(_That_ much at least you do know.) You also make it a point above
everything that the silver must be very clean; Sigrid seems to understand,
and with the optimism of youth, you approach the dinner hour without
misgiving.

The table, set with your wedding silver and glass, looks quite nice. You
are a little worried about the silver--it does look rather yellow,
but perhaps it is just a shadow.

Then you notice there are a great many forks on the table! You ask your
husband what is the matter with the forks?

He does not see anything wrong.
You need them all for the dinner you ordered, how can there be less? So
you straighten a candlestick that was out of line, and put the place
cards on.

Then you go into the drawing-room.

You don't light the fire until the last moment, because you want it to
be burning brightly when your guests arrive.

Your drawing-room looks a little stiff somehow, but an open fire
more than anything else makes a room inviting, and you light it
just as your first guest rings the bell.

As Mr. Clubwin Doe enters, the room looks charming, then suddenly the
fire smokes, and in the midst of the smoke your other guests arrive.
Every one begins to cough and blink. They are very polite, but the
smoke, growing each moment denser, is not to be overlooked. Mrs. Toplofty
takes matters in her own hands and makes Mr. Doe and your husband carry
the logs, smoke and all, and throw them into the yard. The room
still thick with smoke is now cheerlessly fireless, and another factor
beginning to distress you is that, although everyone has arrived, there
is no sign of dinner. You wait, at first merely eager to get out of the
smoke-filled drawing-room. Gradually you are becoming nervous--what can
have happened? The dining-room door might be that of a tomb for all the
evidence of life behind it. You become really alarmed.
Is dinner never going to be served? Everyone's eyes are red from the smoke,
and conversation is getting weaker and weaker.

Mrs.

Toplofty--evidently despairing--sits down. Mrs. Worldly also sits,
both hold their eyes shut and say nothing. At last the dining-room
door opens, and Sigrid instead of bowing slightly and saying in a
low tone of voice, "Dinner is served," stands stiff as a block of
wood, and fairly shouts:
"Dinner's all ready!"

You hope no one heard her, but you know very well that nothing
escaped any one of those present.

And between the smoke and the delay and your waitress' manners, you
are already thoroughly mortified by the time you reach the table.

But you hope that at least the dinner will be good.

For the first time you are assailed with doubt on that score. And again
you wait, but the oyster course is all right.

And then comes the soup. You don't have to taste it to see that it
is wrong. It looks not at all as "clear" soup should! Its color, instead
of being glass-clear amber, is greasy-looking brown. You taste it,
fearing the worst, and the worst is realized. It tastes like dish-water--and
is barely tepid. You look around the table; Mr. Kindhart alone is trying
to eat it.

In removing the plates, Delia, the assistant, takes them up by piling one
on top of the other, clashing them together as she does so. You can
feel Mrs. Worldly looking with almost hypnotized fascination--as her
attention might be drawn to a street accident against her will. Then
there is a wait. You wait and wait, and looking in front of you, you
notice the bare tablecloth without a plate. You know instantly that
the service is wrong, but you find yourself puzzled to know how it should
have been done.
Finally Sigrid comes in with a whole dozen plates stacked in a pile,
which she proceeds to deal around the table.

You at least know that to try to interfere would only make matters
worse.

You hold your own cold fingers in your lap knowing that you must
sit there, and that you can do nothing.

The fish which was to have been a _mousse_ with Hollandaise sauce, is
a huge mound, much too big for the platter, with a narrow gutter of water
around the edge and the center dabbed over with a curdled yellow mess.
You realize that not only is the food itself awful, but that the quantity
is too great for one dish. You don't know what to do next; you know there
is no use in apologizing, there is no way of dropping through the
floor, or waking yourself up.

You have collected the smartest and the most critical people around your
table to put them to torture such as they will never forget. Never!
You have to bite your lips to keep from crying. Whatever possessed you
to ask these people to your horrible house?

Mr. Kindhart, sitting next to you, says gently, "Cheer up, little girl,
it doesn't really matter!" And then you know to the full how
terrible the situation is.

The meal is endless; each course is equally unappetizing to look at, and
abominably served. You notice that none of your guests eat anything.
They can't.

You leave the table literally sick, but realizing fully that the giving
of a dinner is not as easy as you thought.

And in the drawing-room, which is now fireless and freezing, but at
least smokeless, you start to apologize and burst into tears!

As you are very young, and those present are all really fond of
you, they try to be comforting, but you know that it will be years
(if ever) before any of them will be willing to risk an evening in
your house again.

You also know that without malice, but in truth and frankness, they
will tell everyone: "Whatever you do, don't dine with the Newweds
unless you eat your dinner before you go, and wear black glasses
so no sight can offend you."

When they have all gone, you drag yourself miserably up-stairs, feeling
that you never want to look in that drawing-room or dining-room
again.

Your husband, remembering the trenches, tries to tell you it was
not so bad!

But you _know!_ You lie awake planning to let the house, and to
discharge each one of your awful household the next morning, and then you
realize that the fault is not a bit more theirs than yours.

If you had tried the chimney first, and learned its peculiarities; if you
yourself had known every detail of cooking and service, of course you
would not have attempted to give the dinner in the first place; not at
least until, through giving little dinners, the technique of your
household had become good enough to give a big one.

On the other hand, supposing that you had had a very experienced cook and
waitress; dinner would, of course, not have been bungled, but it would
have lacked something, somewhere, if you added nothing of your own
personality to its perfection. It is almost safe to make the statement
that no dinner is ever really well done unless the hostess herself knows
every smallest detail thoroughly. Mrs. Worldly pays seemingly no
attention, but nothing escapes her. She can walk through a room without
appearing to look either to the right or left, yet if the slightest
detail is amiss, an ornament out of place, or there is one dull button
on a footman's livery, her house telephone is rung at once!

Having generalized by drawing two pictures, it is now time to take up
the specific details to be considered in giving a dinner.

=DETAILED DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER GIVING=
The requisites at every dinner, whether a great one of 200 covers,
or a little one of six, are as follows:

Guests.

People who are congenial to one another. This is of first importance.

Food. A suitable menu perfectly prepared and dished.

(Hot food to be _hot_, and cold, _cold_.)
Table furnishing. Faultlessly laundered linen, brilliantly polished
silver, and all other table accessories suitable to the occasion
and surroundings.

Service. Expert dining-room servants and enough of them.

Drawing-room.

Adequate in size to number of guests and inviting in arrangement.

A cordial and hospitable host.

A hostess of charm. Charm says everything--tact, sympathy, poise and perfect
manners--always.

And though for all dinners these requisites are much the same, the
necessity for perfection increases in proportion to the formality
of the occasion.

=TASTE IN SELECTION OF PEOPLE=

The proper selection of guests is the first essential in all
entertaining, and the hostess who has a talent for assembling the
right people has a great asset.

Taste in house furnishings or in clothes or in selecting a cook,
is as nothing compared to taste in people!

Some people have this "sense"--others haven't.

The first are the great hosts and hostesses; the others are the
mediocre or the failures.

It is usually a mistake to invite great talkers together. Brilliant
men and women who love to talk want hearers, not rivals. Very silent
people should be sandwiched between good talkers, or at least
voluble talkers.

Silly people should never be put anywhere near learned ones, nor
the dull near the clever, unless the dull one is a young and pretty
woman with a talent for listening, and the clever, a man with an
admiration for beauty, and a love for talking.

Most people think two brilliant people should be put together. Often
they should, but with discretion.

If both are voluble or nervous or "temperamental," you may create a
situation like putting two operatic sopranos in the same part and
expecting them to sing together.

The endeavor of a hostess, when seating her table, is to put those
together who are likely to be interesting to each other.

Professor Bugge might bore _you_ to tears, but Mrs. Entomoid would probably
delight in him; just as Mr. Stocksan Bonds and Mrs.

Rich would probably have interests in common. Making a dinner list
is a little like making a Christmas list. You put down what _they_
will (you hope) like, not what you like.

Those who are placed between congenial neighbors remember your
dinner as delightful--even though both food and service were mediocre;
but ask people out of their own groups and seat them next to their
pet aversions, and wild horses could not drag them to your house
again!

=HOW A DINNER LIST IS KEPT=
Nearly every hostess keeps a dinner list--apart from her general
visiting list--of people with whom she is accustomed to dine, or
to invite to dinner or other small entertainments.

But the prominent hostess, if she has grown daughters and continually
gives parties of all sorts and sizes and ages, usually keeps her
list in a more complete and "ready reference" order.

Mrs. Gilding, for instance, has guest lists separately indexed.

Under the general heading "Dinners," she has older married, younger married,
girls, men. Her luncheon list is taken from her dinner list. "Bridge"
includes especially good players of all ages; "dances," young married
people, young girls, and dancing men.

Then she has a cross-index list of "Important Persons," meaning
those of real distinction who are always the foundation of all good
society; "Amusing," usually people of talent--invaluable for house
parties; and "New People," including many varieties and unassorted.

Mrs. Gilding exchanges invitations with a number of these because
they are interesting or amusing, or because their parties are diverting
and dazzling. And Mrs.

Gilding herself, being typical of New York's Cavalier element rather than
its Puritan strain, personally prefers diversion to edification. Needless
to say, "Boston's Best," being ninety-eight per cent. Puritan, has
no "new" list. Besides her list of "New People," she has a short
"frivolous" list of other Cavaliers like herself, and a "Neutral"
list, which is the most valuable of all because it comprises those
who "go" with everyone.

Syme could not help feeling a comic contrast
between this funereal church parade of apparel and the rich and
glistening meadow, growing wild flowers everywhere. But, indeed, this
comic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the black hats was but a
symbol of the tragic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the black
business. On his right was a little wood; far away to his left lay the
long curve of the railway line, which he was, so to speak, guarding from
the Marquis, whose goal and escape it was. In front of him, behind the
black group of his opponents, he could see, like a tinted cloud, a small
almond bush in flower against the faint line of the sea.

The member of the Legion of Honour, whose name it seemed was Colonel
Ducroix, approached the Professor and Dr. Bull with great politeness,
and suggested that the play should terminate with the first considerable
hurt.

Dr. Bull, however, having been carefully coached by Syme upon this point
of policy, insisted, with great dignity and in very bad French, that it
should continue until one of the combatants was disabled. Syme had made
up his mind that he could avoid disabling the Marquis and prevent
the Marquis from disabling him for at least twenty minutes. In twenty
minutes the Paris train would have gone by.

"To a man of the well-known skill and valour of Monsieur de St.
Eustache," said the Professor solemnly, "it must be a matter of
indifference which method is adopted, and our principal has strong
reasons for demanding the longer encounter, reasons the delicacy of
which prevent me from being explicit, but for the just and honourable
nature of which I can--"

"Peste!" broke from the Marquis behind, whose face had suddenly
darkened, "let us stop talking and begin," and he slashed off the head
of a tall flower with his stick.

Syme understood his rude impatience and instinctively looked over his
shoulder to see whether the train was coming in sight. But there was no
smoke on the horizon.

Colonel Ducroix knelt down and unlocked the case, taking out a pair of
twin swords, which took the sunlight and turned to two streaks of white
fire. He offered one to the Marquis, who snatched it without ceremony,
and another to Syme, who took it, bent it, and poised it with as much
delay as was consistent with dignity.

Then the Colonel took out another pair of blades, and taking one himself
and giving another to Dr. Bull, proceeded to place the men.

Both combatants had thrown off their coats and waistcoats, and stood
sword in hand. The seconds stood on each side of the line of fight with
drawn swords also, but still sombre in their dark frock-coats and hats.
The principals saluted. The Colonel said quietly, "Engage!" and the two
blades touched and tingled.

When the jar of the joined iron ran up Syme's arm, all the fantastic
fears that have been the subject of this story fell from him like dreams
from a man waking up in bed. He remembered them clearly and in order as
mere delusions of the nerves--how the fear of the Professor had been
the fear of the tyrannic accidents of nightmare, and how the fear of the
Doctor had been the fear of the airless vacuum of science. The first was
the old fear that any miracle might happen, the second the more hopeless
modern fear that no miracle can ever happen. But he saw that these fears
were fancies, for he found himself in the presence of the great fact of
the fear of death, with its coarse and pitiless common sense. He felt
like a man who had dreamed all night of falling over precipices, and had
woke up on the morning when he was to be hanged. For as soon as he had
seen the sunlight run down the channel of his foe's foreshortened blade,
and as soon as he had felt the two tongues of steel touch, vibrating
like two living things, he knew that his enemy was a terrible fighter,
and that probably his last hour had come.

He felt a strange and vivid value in all the earth around him, in the
grass under his feet; he felt the love of life in all living things.
He could almost fancy that he heard the grass growing; he could almost
fancy that even as he stood fresh flowers were springing up and breaking
into blossom in the meadow--flowers blood red and burning gold and
blue, fulfilling the whole pageant of the spring. And whenever his
eyes strayed for a flash from the calm, staring, hypnotic eyes of the
Marquis, they saw the little tuft of almond tree against the sky-line.
He had the feeling that if by some miracle he escaped he would be ready
to sit for ever before that almond tree, desiring nothing else in the
world.

But while earth and sky and everything had the living beauty of a thing
lost, the other half of his head was as clear as glass, and he was
parrying his enemy's point with a kind of clockwork skill of which he
had hardly supposed himself capable. Once his enemy's point ran along
his wrist, leaving a slight streak of blood, but it either was not
noticed or was tacitly ignored. Every now and then he riposted, and once
or twice he could almost fancy that he felt his point go home, but as
there was no blood on blade or shirt he supposed he was mistaken. Then
came an interruption and a change.

At the risk of losing all, the Marquis, interrupting his quiet stare,
flashed one glance over his shoulder at the line of railway on his
right. Then he turned on Syme a face transfigured to that of a fiend,
and began to fight as if with twenty weapons. The attack came so fast
and furious, that the one shining sword seemed a shower of shining
arrows. Syme had no chance to look at the railway; but also he had
no need. He could guess the reason of the Marquis's sudden madness of
battle--the Paris train was in sight.

But the Marquis's morbid energy over-reached itself. Twice Syme,
parrying, knocked his opponent's point far out of the fighting circle;
and the third time his riposte was so rapid, that there was no doubt
about the hit this time. Syme's sword actually bent under the weight of
the Marquis's body, which it had pierced.

Syme was as certain that he had stuck his blade into his enemy as a
gardener that he has stuck his spade into the ground. Yet the Marquis
sprang back from the stroke without a stagger, and Syme stood staring at
his own sword-point like an idiot. There was no blood on it at all.

There was an instant of rigid silence, and then Syme in his turn fell
furiously on the other, filled with a flaming curiosity. The Marquis
was probably, in a general sense, a better fencer than he, as he
had surmised at the beginning, but at the moment the Marquis seemed
distraught and at a disadvantage. He fought wildly and even weakly, and
he constantly looked away at the railway line, almost as if he feared
the train more than the pointed steel. Syme, on the other hand, fought
fiercely but still carefully, in an intellectual fury, eager to solve
the riddle of his own bloodless sword. For this purpose, he aimed less
at the Marquis's body, and more at his throat and head. A minute and a
half afterwards he felt his point enter the man's neck below the jaw.
It came out clean. Half mad, he thrust again, and made what should have
been a bloody scar on the Marquis's cheek. But there was no scar.

For one moment the heaven of Syme again grew black with supernatural
terrors. Surely the man had a charmed life. But this new spiritual dread
was a more awful thing than had been the mere spiritual topsy-turvydom
symbolised by the paralytic who pursued him. The Professor was only a
goblin; this man was a devil--perhaps he was the Devil! Anyhow, this
was certain, that three times had a human sword been driven into him
and made no mark. When Syme had that thought he drew himself up, and all
that was good in him sang high up in the air as a high wind sings in the
trees. He thought of all the human things in his story--of the Chinese
lanterns in Saffron Park, of the girl's red hair in the garden, of the
honest, beer-swilling sailors down by the dock, of his loyal companions
standing by. Perhaps he had been chosen as a champion of all these fresh
and kindly things to cross swords with the enemy of all creation. "After
all," he said to himself, "I am more than a devil; I am a man. I can do
the one thing which Satan himself cannot do--I can die," and as the word
went through his head, he heard a faint and far-off hoot, which would
soon be the roar of the Paris train.

He fell to fighting again with a supernatural levity, like a Mohammedan
panting for Paradise. As the train came nearer and nearer he fancied he
could see people putting up the floral arches in Paris; he joined in
the growing noise and the glory of the great Republic whose gate he
was guarding against Hell. His thoughts rose higher and higher with
the rising roar of the train, which ended, as if proudly, in a long and
piercing whistle. The train stopped.

Suddenly, to the astonishment of everyone the Marquis sprang back quite
out of sword reach and threw down his sword. The leap was wonderful,
and not the less wonderful because Syme had plunged his sword a moment
before into the man's thigh.

"Stop!" said the Marquis in a voice that compelled a momentary
obedience. "I want to say something."

"What is the matter?" asked Colonel Ducroix, staring. "Has there been
foul play?"

"There has been foul play somewhere," said Dr. Bull, who was a little
pale. "Our principal has wounded the Marquis four times at least, and he
is none the worse."

The Marquis put up his hand with a curious air of ghastly patience.

"Please let me speak," he said. "It is rather important. Mr. Syme,"
he continued, turning to his opponent, "we are fighting today, if
I remember right, because you expressed a wish (which I thought
irrational) to pull my nose. Would you oblige me by pulling my nose now
as quickly as possible? I have to catch a train."

"I protest that this is most irregular," said Dr. Bull indignantly.

"It is certainly somewhat opposed to precedent," said Colonel Ducroix,
looking wistfully at his principal. "There is, I think, one case on
record (Captain Bellegarde and the Baron Zumpt) in which the weapons
were changed in the middle of the encounter at the request of one of the
combatants. But one can hardly call one's nose a weapon."

"Will you or will you not pull my nose?" said the Marquis in
exasperation. "Come, come, Mr. Syme! You wanted to do it, do it! You can
have no conception of how important it is to me. Don't be so selfish!
Pull my nose at once, when I ask you!" and he bent slightly forward with
a fascinating smile. The Paris train, panting and groaning, had grated
into a little station behind the neighbouring hill.

Syme had the feeling he had more than once had in these adventures--the
sense that a horrible and sublime wave lifted to heaven was just
toppling over. Walking in a world he half understood, he took two paces
forward and seized the Roman nose of this remarkable nobleman. He pulled
it hard, and it came off in his hand.

He stood for some seconds with a foolish solemnity, with the pasteboard
proboscis still between his fingers, looking at it, while the sun and
the clouds and the wooded hills looked down upon this imbecile scene.

The Marquis broke the silence in a loud and cheerful voice.

"If anyone has any use for my left eyebrow," he said, "he can have it.
Colonel Ducroix, do accept my left eyebrow! It's the kind of thing
that might come in useful any day," and he gravely tore off one of his
swarthy Assyrian brows, bringing about half his brown forehead with it,
and politely offered it to the Colonel, who stood crimson and speechless
with rage.

"If I had known," he spluttered, "that I was acting for a poltroon who
pads himself to fight--"

"Oh, I know, I know!" said the Marquis, recklessly throwing various
parts of himself right and left about the field. "You are making a
mistake; but it can't be explained just now. I tell you the train has
come into the station!"

"Yes," said Dr. Bull fiercely, "and the train shall go out of the
station. It shall go out without you. We know well enough for what
devil's work--"

The mysterious Marquis lifted his hands with a desperate gesture. He
was a strange scarecrow standing there in the sun with half his old face
peeled off, and half another face glaring and grinning from underneath.

"Will you drive me mad?" he cried. "The train--"

"You shall not go by the train," said Syme firmly, and grasped his
sword.

The wild figure turned towards Syme, and seemed to be gathering itself
for a sublime effort before speaking.

"You great fat, blasted, blear-eyed, blundering, thundering, brainless,
Godforsaken, doddering, damned fool!" he said without taking breath.
"You great silly, pink-faced, towheaded turnip! You--"

"You shall not go by this train," repeated Syme.

"And why the infernal blazes," roared the other, "should I want to go by
the train?"

"We know all," said the Professor sternly. "You are going to Paris to
throw a bomb!"

"Going to Jericho to throw a Jabberwock!" cried the other, tearing his
hair, which came off easily.

"Have you all got softening of the brain, that you don't realise what
I am? Did you really think I wanted to catch that train? Twenty Paris
trains might go by for me. Damn Paris trains!"

"Then what did you care about?" began the Professor.

"What did I care about? I didn't care about catching the train; I cared
about whether the train caught me, and now, by God! it has caught me."

"I regret to inform you," said Syme with restraint, "that your remarks
convey no impression to my mind. Perhaps if you were to remove the
remains of your original forehead and some portion of what was once your
chin, your meaning would become clearer. Mental lucidity fulfils itself
in many ways. What do you mean by saying that the train has caught you?
It may be my literary fancy, but somehow I feel that it ought to mean
something."

"It means everything," said the other, "and the end of everything.
Sunday has us now in the hollow of his hand."

"Us!" repeated the Professor, as if stupefied. "What do you mean by
'us'?"

"The police, of course!" said the Marquis, and tore off his scalp and
half his face.

The head which emerged was the blonde, well brushed, smooth-haired head
which is common in the English constabulary, but the face was terribly
pale.

"I am Inspector Ratcliffe," he said, with a sort of haste that verged
on harshness. "My name is pretty well known to the police, and I can see
well enough that you belong to them. But if there is any doubt about
my position, I have a card," and he began to pull a blue card from his
pocket.

The Professor gave a tired gesture.

"Oh, don't show it us," he said wearily; "we've got enough of them to
equip a paper-chase."

The little man named Bull, had, like many men who seem to be of a mere
vivacious vulgarity, sudden movements of good taste. Here he certainly
saved the situation. In the midst of this staggering transformation
scene he stepped forward with all the gravity and responsibility of a
second, and addressed the two seconds of the Marquis.

"Gentlemen," he said, "we all owe you a serious apology; but I assure
you that you have not been made the victims of such a low joke as you
imagine, or indeed of anything undignified in a man of honour. You have
not wasted your time; you have helped to save the world. We are not
buffoons, but very desperate men at war with a vast conspiracy. A secret
society of anarchists is hunting us like hares; not such unfortunate
madmen as may here or there throw a bomb through starvation or German
philosophy, but a rich and powerful and fanatical church, a church of
eastern pessimism, which holds it holy to destroy mankind like vermin.
How hard they hunt us you can gather from the fact that we are driven
to such disguises as those for which I apologise, and to such pranks as
this one by which you suffer."

The younger second of the Marquis, a short man with a black moustache,
bowed politely, and said--

"Of course, I accept the apology; but you will in your turn forgive me
if I decline to follow you further into your difficulties, and
permit myself to say good morning! The sight of an acquaintance and
distinguished fellow-townsman coming to pieces in the open air is
unusual, and, upon the whole, sufficient for one day. Colonel Ducroix, I
would in no way influence your actions, but if you feel with me that our
present society is a little abnormal, I am now going to walk back to the
town."

Colonel Ducroix moved mechanically, but then tugged abruptly at his
white moustache and broke out--

"No, by George! I won't. If these gentlemen are really in a mess with a
lot of low wreckers like that, I'll see them through it. I have fought
for France, and it is hard if I can't fight for civilization."

Dr. Bull took off his hat and waved it, cheering as at a public meeting.

"Don't make too much noise," said Inspector Ratcliffe, "Sunday may hear
you."

"Sunday!" cried Bull, and dropped his hat.

"Yes," retorted Ratcliffe, "he may be with them."

"With whom?" asked Syme.

"With the people out of that train," said the other.

"What you say seems utterly wild," began Syme. "Why, as a matter of
fact--But, my God," he cried out suddenly, like a man who sees an
explosion a long way off, "by God! if this is true the whole bally lot
of us on the Anarchist Council were against anarchy! Every born man was
a detective except the President and his personal secretary. What can it
mean?"

"Mean!" said the new policeman with incredible violence. "It means that
we are struck dead! Don't you know Sunday? Don't you know that his jokes
are always so big and simple that one has never thought of them? Can you
think of anything more like Sunday than this, that he should put all his
powerful enemies on the Supreme Council, and then take care that it was
not supreme? I tell you he has bought every trust, he has captured every
cable, he has control of every railway line--especially of that railway
line!" and he pointed a shaking finger towards the small wayside
station. "The whole movement was controlled by him; half the world was
ready to rise for him. But there were just five people, perhaps, who
would have resisted him... and the old devil put them on the Supreme
Council, to waste their time in watching each other. Idiots that we are,
he planned the whole of our idiocies! Sunday knew that the Professor
would chase Syme through London, and that Syme would fight me in France.
And he was combining great masses of capital, and seizing great lines
of telegraphy, while we five idiots were running after each other like a
lot of confounded babies playing blind man's buff."

"Well?" asked Syme with a sort of steadiness.

"Well," replied the other with sudden serenity, "he has found us playing
blind man's buff today in a field of great rustic beauty and extreme
solitude. He has probably captured the world; it only remains to him to
capture this field and all the fools in it. And since you really want
to know what was my objection to the arrival of that train, I will tell
you. My objection was that Sunday or his Secretary has just this moment
got out of it."

Syme uttered an involuntary cry, and they all turned their eyes towards
the far-off station. It was quite true that a considerable bulk of
people seemed to be moving in their direction. But they were too distant
to be distinguished in any way.

"It was a habit of the late Marquis de St. Eustache," said the new
policeman, producing a leather case, "always to carry a pair of opera
glasses. Either the President or the Secretary is coming after us with
that mob. They have caught us in a nice quiet place where we are under
no temptations to break our oaths by calling the police. Dr. Bull, I
have a suspicion that you will see better through these than through
your own highly decorative spectacles."

He handed the field-glasses to the Doctor, who immediately took off his
spectacles and put the apparatus to his eyes.

"It cannot be as bad as you say," said the Professor, somewhat shaken.
"There are a good number of them certainly, but they may easily be
ordinary tourists."

"Do ordinary tourists," asked Bull, with the fieldglasses to his eyes,
"wear black masks half-way down the face?"

Syme almost tore the glasses out of his hand, and looked through them.
Most men in the advancing mob really looked ordinary enough; but it
was quite true that two or three of the leaders in front wore black
half-masks almost down to their mouths. This disguise is very complete,
especially at such a distance, and Syme found it impossible to conclude
anything from the clean-shaven jaws and chins of the men talking in
the front. But presently as they talked they all smiled and one of them
smiled on one side.


CHAPTER XI. THE CRIMINALS CHASE THE POLICE

SYME put the field-glasses from his eyes with an almost ghastly relief.

"The President is not with them, anyhow," he said, and wiped his
forehead.

"But surely they are right away on the horizon," said the bewildered
Colonel, blinking and but half recovered from Bull's hasty though polite
explanation. "Could you possibly know your President among all those
people?"

"Could I know a white elephant among all those people!" answered Syme
somewhat irritably. "As you very truly say, they are on the horizon;
but if he were walking with them... by God! I believe this ground would
shake."

After an instant's pause the new man called Ratcliffe said with gloomy
decision--

"Of course the President isn't with them. I wish to Gemini he were. Much
more likely the President is riding in triumph through Paris, or sitting
on the ruins of St. Paul's Cathedral."

"This is absurd!" said Syme. "Something may have happened in our
absence; but he cannot have carried the world with a rush like that. It
is quite true," he added, frowning dubiously at the distant fields that
lay towards the little station, "it is certainly true that there seems
to be a crowd coming this way; but they are not all the army that you
make out."

"Oh, they," said the new detective contemptuously; "no they are not a
very valuable force. But let me tell you frankly that they are precisely
calculated to our value--we are not much, my boy, in Sunday's universe.
He has got hold of all the cables and telegraphs himself. But to kill
the Supreme Council he regards as a trivial matter, like a post card; it
may be left to his private secretary," and he spat on the grass.

Then he turned to the others and said somewhat austerely--

"There is a great deal to be said for death; but if anyone has any
preference for the other alternative, I strongly advise him to walk
after me."

With these words, he turned his broad back and strode with silent energy
towards the wood. The others gave one glance over their shoulders, and
saw that the dark cloud of men had detached itself from the station
and was moving with a mysterious discipline across the plain. They saw
already, even with the naked eye, black blots on the foremost faces,
which marked the masks they wore. They turned and followed their leader,
who had already struck the wood, and disappeared among the twinkling
trees.

The sun on the grass was dry and hot. So in plunging into the wood they
had a cool shock of shadow, as of divers who plunge into a dim pool. The
inside of the wood was full of shattered sunlight and shaken shadows.
They made a sort of shuddering veil, almost recalling the dizziness of a
cinematograph. Even the solid figures walking with him Syme could hardly
see for the patterns of sun and shade that danced upon them. Now a man's
head was lit as with a light of Rembrandt, leaving all else obliterated;
now again he had strong and staring white hands with the face of a
negro. The ex-Marquis had pulled the old straw hat over his eyes, and
the black shade of the brim cut his face so squarely in two that it
seemed to be wearing one of the black half-masks of their pursuers. The
fancy tinted Syme's overwhelming sense of wonder. Was he wearing a mask?
Was anyone wearing a mask? Was anyone anything? This wood of witchery,
in which men's faces turned black and white by turns, in which their
figures first swelled into sunlight and then faded into formless night,
this mere chaos of chiaroscuro (after the clear daylight outside),
seemed to Syme a perfect symbol of the world in which he had been moving
for three days, this world where men took off their beards and their
spectacles and their noses, and turned into other people. That tragic
self-confidence which he had felt when he believed that the Marquis was
a devil had strangely disappeared now that he knew that the Marquis was
a friend. He felt almost inclined to ask after all these bewilderments
what was a friend and what an enemy. Was there anything that was apart
from what it seemed? The Marquis had taken off his nose and turned out
to be a detective. Might he not just as well take off his head and
turn out to be a hobgoblin? Was not everything, after all, like this
bewildering woodland, this dance of dark and light? Everything only
a glimpse, the glimpse always unforeseen, and always forgotten. For
Gabriel Syme had found in the heart of that sun-splashed wood what many
modern painters had found there. He had found the thing which the
modern people call Impressionism, which is another name for that final
scepticism which can find no floor to the universe.

As a man in an evil dream strains himself to scream and wake, Syme
strove with a sudden effort to fling off this last and worst of his
fancies. With two impatient strides he overtook the man in the Marquis's
straw hat, the man whom he had come to address as Ratcliffe. In a voice
exaggeratively loud and cheerful, he broke the bottomless silence and
made conversation.

"May I ask," he said, "where on earth we are all going to?"

So genuine had been the doubts of his soul, that he was quite glad to
hear his companion speak in an easy, human voice.

"We must get down through the town of Lancy to the sea," he said. "I
think that part of the country is least likely to be with them."

"What can you mean by all this?" cried Syme. "They can't be running the
real world in that way. Surely not many working men are anarchists, and
surely if they were, mere mobs could not beat modern armies and police."

"Mere mobs!" repeated his new friend with a snort of scorn. "So you talk
about mobs and the working classes as if they were the question. You've
got that eternal idiotic idea that if anarchy came it would come from
the poor. Why should it? The poor have been rebels, but they have never
been anarchists; they have more interest than anyone else in there being
some decent government. The poor man really has a stake in the country.
The rich man hasn't; he can go away to New Guinea in a yacht. The poor
have sometimes objected to being governed badly; the rich have always
objected to being governed at all. Aristocrats were always anarchists,
as you can see from the barons' wars."

"As a lecture on English history for the little ones," said Syme, "this
is all very nice; but I have not yet grasped its application."

"Its application is," said his informant, "that most of old Sunday's
right-hand men are South African and American millionaires. That is why
he has got hold of all the communications; and that is why the last four
champions of the anti-anarchist police force are running through a wood
like rabbits."

"Millionaires I can understand," said Syme thoughtfully, "they are
nearly all mad. But getting hold of a few wicked old gentlemen with
hobbies is one thing; getting hold of great Christian nations is
another. I would bet the nose off my face (forgive the allusion) that
Sunday would stand perfectly helpless before the task of converting any
ordinary healthy person anywhere."

"Well," said the other, "it rather depends what sort of person you
mean."

"Well, for instance," said Syme, "he could never convert that person,"
and he pointed straight in front of him.

They had come to an open space of sunlight, which seemed to express to
Syme the final return of his own good sense; and in the middle of this
forest clearing was a figure that might well stand for that common
sense in an almost awful actuality. Burnt by the sun and stained with
perspiration, and grave with the bottomless gravity of small necessary
toils, a heavy French peasant was cutting wood with a hatchet. His cart
stood a few yards off, already half full of timber; and the horse that
cropped the grass was, like his master, valorous but not desperate; like
his master, he was even prosperous, but yet was almost sad. The man was
a Norman, taller than the average of the French and very angular; and
his swarthy figure stood dark against a square of sunlight, almost like
some allegoric figure of labour frescoed on a ground of gold.

"Mr. Syme is saying," called out Ratcliffe to the French Colonel, "that
this man, at least, will never be an anarchist."

"Mr. Syme is right enough there," answered Colonel Ducroix, laughing,
"if only for the reason that he has plenty of property to defend. Parr,
was then the leading Episcopal clergyman of Boston.

Him I reconstruct from scattered hints I have met with as a scholarly,
social man, with a sanguine temperament and the cheerful ways of a
wholesome English parson, blest with a good constitution and a
comfortable benefice.

Mild Orthodoxy, ripened in Unitarian sunshine, is a very agreeable
aspect of Christianity, and none was readier than Dr.

Gardiner, if the voice of tradition may be trusted, to fraternize with
his brothers of the liberal persuasion, and to make common cause with
them in all that related to the interests of learning.

William Tudor was a chief connecting link between the period of the
"Monthly Anthology," and that of the "North American Review," for
he was a frequent contributor to the first of these periodicals,
and he was the founder of the second.

Edward Everett characterizes him, in speaking of his "Letters on the
Eastern States," as a scholar and a gentleman, an impartial observer,
a temperate champion, a liberal opponent, and a correct writer.

Daniel Webster bore similar testimony to his talents and character.

Samuel Cooper Thacher was hardly twenty years old when the "Anthology"
was founded, and died when he was only a little more than thirty. He
contributed largely to that periodical, besides publishing various
controversial sermons, and writing the "Memoir of Buckminster."

There was no more brilliant circle than this in any of our cities.

There was none where so much freedom of thought was united to so much
scholarship. The "Anthology" was the literary precursor of the "North
American Review," and the theological herald of the "Christian Examiner."
Like all first beginnings it showed many marks of immaturity.
It mingled extracts and original contributions, theology and medicine,
with all manner of literary chips and shavings. It had Magazine ways
that smacked of Sylvanus Urban; leading articles with balanced paragraphs
which recalled the marching tramp of Johnson; translations that might
have been signed with the name of Creech, and Odes to Sensibility, and
the like, which recalled the syrupy sweetness and languid trickle of
Laura Matilda's sentimentalities. It talked about "the London Reviewers"
with a kind of provincial deference. It printed articles with quite too
much of the license of Swift and Prior for the Magazines of to-day.
But it had opinions of its own, and would compare well enough with the
"Gentleman's Magazine," to say nothing of "My Grandmother's Review, the
British." A writer in the third volume (1806) says: "A taste for the
belles lettres is rapidly spreading in our country. I believe that,
fifty years ago, England had never seen a Miscellany or a Review so
well conducted as our 'Anthology,' however superior such publications
may now be in that kingdom."

It is well worth one's while to look over the volumes of the "Anthology"
to see what our fathers and grandfathers were thinking about, and
how they expressed themselves. The stiffness of Puritanism was pretty
well relaxed when a Magazine conducted by clergymen could say that
"The child,"--meaning the new periodical,--"shall not be destitute of
the manners of a gentleman, nor a stranger to genteel amusements. He shall
attend Theatres, Museums, Balls, and whatever polite diversions the
town shall furnish." The reader of the "Anthology" will find for his
reward an improving discourse on "Ambition," and a commendable schoolboy's
"theme" on "Inebriation." He will learn something which may be for
his advantage about the "Anjou Cabbage," and may profit by a "Remedy
for Asthma."

A controversy respecting the merits of Sir Richard Blackmore may
prove too little exciting at the present time, and he can turn for
relief to the epistle "Studiosus" addresses to "Alcander."

If the lines of "The Minstrel" who hails, like Longfellow in later years,
from "The District of Main," fail to satisfy him, he cannot accuse "R.T.
Paine, Jr., Esq.," of tameness when he exclaims:--
"Rise Columbia, brave and free, Poise the globe and bound the sea!"
But the writers did not confine themselves to native or even to
English literature, for there is a distinct mention of "Mr.

Goethe's new novel," and an explicit reference to "Dante Aligheri, an
Italian bard." But let the smiling reader go a little farther and
he will find Mr.

Buckminster's most interesting account of the destruction of Goldau.
And in one of these same volumes he will find the article, by Dr.
Jacob Bigelow, doubtless, which was the first hint of our rural
cemeteries, and foreshadowed that new era in our underground civilization
which is sweetening our atmospheric existence.

The late President Josiah Quincy, in his "History of the Boston
Athenaeum," pays a high tribute of respect to the memory and the labors
of the gentlemen who founded that institution and conducted the
"Anthology."

A literary journal had already been published in Boston, but very
soon failed for want of patronage. An enterprising firm of publishers,
"being desirous that the work should be continued, applied to
the Reverend William Emerson, a clergyman of the place, distinguished
for energy and literary taste; and by his exertions several gentlemen
of Boston and its vicinity, conspicuous for talent and zealous for
literature, were induced to engage in conducting the work, and for
this purpose they formed themselves into a Society.

This Society was not completely organized until the year 1805, when Dr.
Gardiner was elected President, and William Emerson Vice-President.
The Society thus formed maintained its existence with reputation for
about six years, and issued ten octavo volumes from the press,
constituting one of the most lasting and honorable monuments of the
literature of the period, and may be considered as a true revival
of polite learning in this country after that decay and neglect
which resulted from the distractions of the Revolutionary War, and
as forming an epoch in the intellectual history of the United States.

Its records yet remain, an evidence that it was a pleasant, active,
high-principled association of literary men, laboring harmoniously to
elevate the literary standard of the time, and with a success which
may well be regarded as remarkable, considering the little sympathy
they received from the community, and the many difficulties with
which they had to struggle."

The publication of the "Anthology" began in 1804, when Mr. William
Emerson was thirty-four years of age, and it ceased to be published
in the year of his death, 1811.

Ralph Waldo Emerson was eight years old at that time.

His intellectual life began, we may say, while the somewhat obscure
afterglow of the "Anthology" was in the western horizon of the New
England sky.

The nebula which was to form a cluster about the "North American Review"
did not take definite shape until 1815. There is no such memorial
of the growth of American literature as is to be found in the first
half century of that periodical.

It is easy to find fault with it for uniform respectability and
occasional dulness.

But take the names of its contributors during its first fifty years from
the literary record of that period, and we should have but a meagre list
of mediocrities, saved from absolute poverty by the genius of two
or three writers like Irving and Cooper. Strike out the names of
Webster, Everett, Story, Sumner, and Cushing; of Bryant, Dana,
Longfellow, and Lowell; of Prescott, Ticknor, Motley, Sparks, and
Bancroft; of Verplanck, Hillard, and Whipple; of Stuart and Robinson;
of Norton, Palfrey, Peabody, and Bowen; and, lastly, that of Emerson
himself, and how much American classic literature would be left for
a new edition of "Miller's Retrospect"?

These were the writers who helped to make the "North American Review"
what it was during the period of Emerson's youth and early manhood.

These, and men like them, gave Boston its intellectual character.

We may count as symbols the three hills of "this darling town of ours,"
as Emerson called it, and say that each had its beacon. Civil liberty
lighted the torch on one summit, religious freedom caught the flame
and shone from the second, and the lamp of the scholar has burned
steadily on the third from the days when John Cotton preached his
first sermon to those in which we are living.

The social religious influences of the first part of the century
must not be forgotten.

The two high-caste religions of that day were white-handed Unitarianism
and ruffled-shirt Episcopalianism.

What called itself "society" was chiefly distributed between them.
Within less than fifty years a social revolution has taken place
which has somewhat changed the relation between these and other worshipping
bodies. This movement is the general withdrawal of the native New Englanders
of both sexes from domestic service.

A large part of the "hired help,"--for the word servant was commonly
repudiated,--worshipped, not with their employers, but at churches where
few or no well-appointed carriages stood at the doors.

The congregations that went chiefly from the drawing-room and those
which were largely made up of dwellers in the culinary studio were naturally
separated by a very distinct line of social cleavage. A certain exclusiveness
and fastidiousness, not reminding us exactly of primitive Christianity,
was the inevitable result. This must always be remembered in judging
the men and women of that day and their immediate descendants, as
much as the surviving prejudices of those whose parents were born
subjects of King George in the days when loyalty to the crown was
a virtue.

The line of social separation was more marked, probably, in Boston, the
headquarters of Unitarianism, than in the other large cities; and even
at the present day our Jerusalem and Samaria, though they by no means
refuse dealing with each other, do not exchange so many cards as they
do checks and dollars. The exodus of those children of Israel from
the house of bondage, as they chose to consider it, and their fusion
with the mass of independent citizens, got rid of a class distinction
which was felt even in the sanctuary.

True religious equality is harder to establish than civil liberty. No
man has done more for spiritual republicanism than Emerson, though he
came from the daintiest sectarian circle of the time in the whole
country.

Such were Emerson's intellectual and moral parentage, nurture, and
environment; such was the atmosphere in which he grew up from youth
to manhood.

CHAPTER I.

Birthplace.--Boyhood.--College Life.

1803-1823. To _AET_. 20.

Ralph Waldo Emerson was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on the 25th of
May, 1803.

He was the second of five sons; William, R.W., Edward Bliss, Robert
Bulkeley, and Charles Chauncy.

His birthplace and that of our other illustrious Bostonian, Benjamin
Franklin, were within a kite-string's distance of each other.

When the baby philosopher of the last century was carried from Milk
Street through the narrow passage long known as Bishop's Alley, now
Hawley Street, he came out in Summer Street, very nearly opposite
the spot where, at the beginning of this century, stood the parsonage
of the First Church, the home of the Reverend William Emerson, its
pastor, and the birthplace of his son, Ralph Waldo.

The oblong quadrangle between Newbury, now Washington Street, Pond,
now Bedford Street, Summer Street, and the open space called Church
Green, where the New South Church was afterwards erected, is
represented on Bonner's maps of 1722 and 1769 as an almost blank
area, not crossed or penetrated by a single passageway.

Even so late as less than half a century ago this region was still
a most attractive little _rus in urbe_.

The sunny gardens of the late Judge Charles Jackson and the late Mr.
S.P.

Gardner opened their flowers and ripened their fruits in the places
now occupied by great warehouses and other massive edifices.

The most aristocratic pears, the "Saint Michael," the "Brown Bury,"
found their natural homes in these sheltered enclosures.

The fine old mansion of Judge William Prescott looked out upon these
gardens.

Some of us can well remember the window of his son's, the historian's,
study, the light from which used every evening to glimmer through
the leaves of the pear-trees while "The Conquest of Mexico" was
achieving itself under difficulties hardly less formidable than
those encountered by Cortes.

It was a charmed region in which Emerson first drew his breath, and
I am fortunate in having a communication from one who knew it and
him longer than almost any other living person.

Mr. John Lowell Gardner, a college classmate and life-long friend
of Mr.
Emerson, has favored me with a letter which contains matters of
interest concerning him never before given to the public. With his kind
permission I have made some extracts and borrowed such facts as
seemed especially worthy of note from his letter.

"I may be said to have known Emerson from the very beginning. A very
low fence divided my father's estate in Summer Street from the
field in which I remember the old wooden parsonage to have existed,--but
this field, when we were very young, was to be covered by Chauncy
Place Church and by the brick houses on Summer Street.

Where the family removed to I do not remember, but I always knew the
boys, William, Ralph, and perhaps Edward, and I again associated
with Ralph at the Latin School, where we were instructed by Master
Gould from 1815 to 1817, entering College in the latter year

.

"... I have no recollection of his relative rank as a scholar, but
it was undoubtedly high, though not the highest.

He never was idle or a lounger, nor did he ever engage in frivolous
pursuits. I should say that his conduct was absolutely faultless.

It was impossible that there should be any feeling about him but of
regard and affection.

He had then the same manner and courtly hesitation in addressing you
that you have known in him since. Still, he was not prominent in the
class, and, but for what all the world has since known of him, his
would not have been a conspicuous figure to his classmates in
recalling College days.

"The fact that we were almost the only Latin School fellows in the class,
and the circumstance that he was slow during the Freshman year to form
new acquaintances, brought us much together, and an intimacy arose which
continued through our College life.

We were in the habit of taking long strolls together, often stopping for
repose at distant points, as at Mount Auburn, etc.... Emerson was not
talkative; he never spoke for effect; his utterances were well weighed
and very deliberately made, but there was a certain flash when he uttered
anything that was more than usually worthy to be remembered.

He was so universally amiable and complying that my evil spirit would
sometimes instigate me to take advantage of his gentleness and forbearance,
but nothing could disturb his equanimity. All that was wanting to
render him an almost perfect character was a few harsher traits and
perhaps more masculine vigor.

"On leaving College our paths in life were so remote from each other
that we met very infrequently.

He soon became, as it were, public property, and I was engrossed for
many years in my commercial undertakings.

All his course of life is known to many survivors. I am inclined to
believe he had a most liberal spirit. I remember that some years since,
when it was known that our classmate ---- was reduced almost to absolute
want by the war, in which he lost his two sons, Emerson exerted himself
to raise a fund among his classmates for his relief, and, there
being very few possible subscribers, made what I considered a noble
contribution, and this you may be sure was not from any Southern sentiment
on the part of Emerson. I send you herewith the two youthful productions
of Emerson of which I spoke to you some time since."
The first of these is a prose Essay of four pages, written for a
discussion in which the Professions of Divinity, Medicine, and Law were
to be weighed against each other. Emerson had the Lawyer's side to
advocate. It is a fair and sensible paper, not of special originality
or brilliancy. His opening paragraph is worth citing, as showing the
same instinct for truth which displayed itself in all his after
writings and the conduct of his life.

"It is usual in advocating a favorite subject to appropriate all
possible excellence, and endeavor to concentrate every doubtful
auxiliary, that we may fortify to the utmost the theme of our
attention.

Such a design should be utterly disdained, except as far as is consistent
with fairness; and the sophistry of weak arguments being abandoned, a
bold appeal should be made to the heart, for the tribute of honest
conviction, with regard to the merits of the subject."
From many boys this might sound like well-meaning commonplace, but
in the history of Mr. Emerson's life that "bold appeal to the heart,"
that "tribute of honest conviction," were made eloquent and real.
The boy meant it when he said it. To carry out his law of sincerity
and self-trust the man had to sacrifice much that was dear to him, but
he did not flinch from his early principles.

It must not be supposed that the blameless youth was an ascetic in
his College days.

The other old manuscript Mr.

Gardner sends me is marked "'Song for Knights of Square Table,'
R.W.E."

There are twelve verses of this song, with a chorus of two lines. The
Muses and all the deities, not forgetting Bacchus, were duly invited to
the festival.

"Let the doors of Olympus be open for all To descend and make merry in
Chivalry's hall." * * * * *
Mr. Sanborn has kindly related to me several circumstances told him by
Emerson about his early years.

The parsonage was situated at the corner of Summer and what is now
Chauncy streets.

It had a yard, and an orchard which Emerson said was as large as Dr.
Ripley's, which might have been some two or three acres.
Afterwards there was a brick house looking on Summer Street, in which
Emerson the father lived. It was separated, Emerson said, by a brick
wall from a garden in which _pears grew_ (a fact a boy is likely to
remember).

Master Ralph Waldo used to _sit on this wall_,--but we cannot believe
he ever got off it on the wrong side, unless politely asked to do so.
On the occasion of some alarm the little boy was carried in his
nightgown to a neighboring house.

After Reverend William Emerson's death Mrs. Emerson removed to a
house in Beacon Street, where the Athenaeum Building now stands.
She kept some boarders,--among them Lemuel Shaw, afterwards Chief
Justice of the State of Massachusetts.

It was but a short distance to the Common, and Waldo and Charles used
to drive their mother's cow there to pasture

.
Renard's garage.

"I tell you they were his," he repeated, with wild eyes, "and they were
full of men in masks!"

"Absurd!" said the Colonel angrily. "Dr. Renard would never give them
his cars."

"He may have been forced," said Ratcliffe quietly. "The whole town is on
their side."

"You still believe that," asked the Colonel incredulously.

"You will all believe it soon," said the other with a hopeless calm.

There was a puzzled pause for some little time, and then the Colonel
began again abruptly--

"No, I can't believe it. The thing is nonsense. The plain people of a
peaceable French town--"

He was cut short by a bang and a blaze of light, which seemed close to
his eyes. As the car sped on it left a floating patch of white smoke
behind it, and Syme had heard a shot shriek past his ear.

"My God!" said the Colonel, "someone has shot at us."

"It need not interrupt conversation," said the gloomy Ratcliffe. "Pray
resume your remarks, Colonel. You were talking, I think, about the plain
people of a peaceable French town."

The staring Colonel was long past minding satire. He rolled his eyes all
round the street.

"It is extraordinary," he said, "most extraordinary."

"A fastidious person," said Syme, "might even call it unpleasant.
However, I suppose those lights out in the field beyond this street are
the Gendarmerie. We shall soon get there."

"No," said Inspector Ratcliffe, "we shall never get there."

He had been standing up and looking keenly ahead of him. Now he sat down
and smoothed his sleek hair with a weary gesture.

"What do you mean?" asked Bull sharply.

"I mean that we shall never get there," said the pessimist placidly.
"They have two rows of armed men across the road already; I can see them
from here. The town is in arms, as I said it was. I can only wallow in
the exquisite comfort of my own exactitude."

And Ratcliffe sat down comfortably in the car and lit a cigarette, but
the others rose excitedly and stared down the road. Syme had slowed down
the car as their plans became doubtful, and he brought it finally to
a standstill just at the corner of a side street that ran down very
steeply to the sea.

The town was mostly in shadow, but the sun had not sunk; wherever its
level light could break through, it painted everything a burning gold.
Up this side street the last sunset light shone as sharp and narrow as
the shaft of artificial light at the theatre. It struck the car of the
five friends, and lit it like a burning chariot. But the rest of the
street, especially the two ends of it, was in the deepest twilight, and
for some seconds they could see nothing. Then Syme, whose eyes were the
keenest, broke into a little bitter whistle, and said,

"It is quite true. There is a crowd or an army or some such thing across
the end of that street."

"Well, if there is," said Bull impatiently, "it must be something
else--a sham fight or the mayor's birthday or something. I cannot and
will not believe that plain, jolly people in a place like this walk
about with dynamite in their pockets. Get on a bit, Syme, and let us
look at them."

The car crawled about a hundred yards farther, and then they were all
startled by Dr. Bull breaking into a high crow of laughter.

"Why, you silly mugs!" he cried, "what did I tell you. That crowd's as
law-abiding as a cow, and if it weren't, it's on our side."

"How do you know?" asked the professor, staring.

"You blind bat," cried Bull, "don't you see who is leading them?"

They peered again, and then the Colonel, with a catch in his voice,
cried out--

"Why, it's Renard!"

There was, indeed, a rank of dim figures running across the road, and
they could not be clearly seen; but far enough in front to catch the
accident of the evening light was stalking up and down the unmistakable
Dr. Renard, in a white hat, stroking his long brown beard, and holding a
revolver in his left hand.

"What a fool I've been!" exclaimed the Colonel. "Of course, the dear old
boy has turned out to help us."

Dr. Bull was bubbling over with laughter, swinging the sword in his hand
as carelessly as a cane. He jumped out of the car and ran across the
intervening space, calling out--

"Dr. Renard! Dr. Renard!"

An instant after Syme thought his own eyes had gone mad in his head. For
the philanthropic Dr. Renard had deliberately raised his revolver and
fired twice at Bull, so that the shots rang down the road.

Almost at the same second as the puff of white cloud went up from this
atrocious explosion a long puff of white cloud went up also from the
cigarette of the cynical Ratcliffe. Like all the rest he turned a little
pale, but he smiled. Dr. Bull, at whom the bullets had been fired, just
missing his scalp, stood quite still in the middle of the road without
a sign of fear, and then turned very slowly and crawled back to the car,
and climbed in with two holes through his hat.

"Well," said the cigarette smoker slowly, "what do you think now?"

"I think," said Dr. Bull with precision, "that I am lying in bed at No.
217 Peabody Buildings, and that I shall soon wake up with a jump; or,
if that's not it, I think that I am sitting in a small cushioned cell in
Hanwell, and that the doctor can't make much of my case. But if you want
to know what I don't think, I'll tell you. I don't think what you think.
I don't think, and I never shall think, that the mass of ordinary men
are a pack of dirty modern thinkers. No, sir, I'm a democrat, and I
still don't believe that Sunday could convert one average navvy or
counter-jumper. No, I may be mad, but humanity isn't."

Syme turned his bright blue eyes on Bull with an earnestness which he
did not commonly make clear.

"You are a very fine fellow," he said. "You can believe in a sanity
which is not merely your sanity. And you're right enough about humanity,
about peasants and people like that jolly old innkeeper. But you're not
right about Renard. I suspected him from the first. He's rationalistic,
and, what's worse, he's rich. When duty and religion are really
destroyed, it will be by the rich."

"They are really destroyed now," said the man with a cigarette, and rose
with his hands in his pockets. "The devils are coming on!"

The men in the motor-car looked anxiously in the direction of his dreamy
gaze, and they saw that the whole regiment at the end of the road was
advancing upon them, Dr. Renard marching furiously in front, his beard
flying in the breeze.

The Colonel sprang out of the car with an intolerant exclamation.

"Gentlemen," he cried, "the thing is incredible. It must be a practical
joke. If you knew Renard as I do--it's like calling Queen Victoria a
dynamiter. If you had got the man's character into your head--"

"Dr. Bull," said Syme sardonically, "has at least got it into his hat."

"I tell you it can't be!" cried the Colonel, stamping.

"Renard shall explain it. He shall explain it to me," and he strode
forward.

"Don't be in such a hurry," drawled the smoker. "He will very soon
explain it to all of us."

But the impatient Colonel was already out of earshot, advancing towards
the advancing enemy. The excited Dr. Renard lifted his pistol again, but
perceiving his opponent, hesitated, and the Colonel came face to face
with him with frantic gestures of remonstrance.

"It is no good," said Syme. "He will never get anything out of that old
heathen. I vote we drive bang through the thick of them, bang as the
bullets went through Bull's hat. We may all be killed, but we must kill
a tidy number of them."

"I won't 'ave it," said Dr. Bull, growing more vulgar in the sincerity
of his virtue. "The poor chaps may be making a mistake. Give the Colonel
a chance."

"Shall we go back, then?" asked the Professor.

"No," said Ratcliffe in a cold voice, "the street behind us is held too.
In fact, I seem to see there another friend of yours, Syme."

Syme spun round smartly, and stared backwards at the track which they
had travelled. He saw an irregular body of horsemen gathering and
galloping towards them in the gloom. He saw above the foremost saddle
the silver gleam of a sword, and then as it grew nearer the silver gleam
of an old man's hair. The next moment, with shattering violence, he had
swung the motor round and sent it dashing down the steep side street to
the sea, like a man that desired only to die.

"What the devil is up?" cried the Professor, seizing his arm.

"The morning star has fallen!" said Syme, as his own car went down the
darkness like a falling star.

The others did not understand his words, but when they looked back at
the street above they saw the hostile cavalry coming round the corner
and down the slopes after them; and foremost of all rode the good
innkeeper, flushed with the fiery innocence of the evening light.

The dispute is not and cannot be settled.

The end of all religious discussion has come when one of the parties
claims that it is thinking or acting under immediate Divine guidance.

"It is God's affair, and his honor is touched," says William Lewis
to Prince Maurice.

Mr. Motley's critic is not less confident in claiming the Almighty as
on the side of his own views.

Let him state his own ground of departure:--
"To show the difference, let me rather say the contrast, between the
point of view of Mr. Motley and my own, between the Unitarian and
the Evangelical belief. I am issue of CALVIN, child of the Awakening
(reveil).

Faithful to the device of the Reformers:
Justification by faith alone, and the Word of God endures eternally.

I consider history from the point of view of Merle d'Aubigne, Chalmers,
Guizot.

I desire to be disciple and witness of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus
Christ."

He is therefore of necessity antagonistic to a writer whom he
describes in such words as these:--
"Mr. Motley is liberal and rationalist.

"He becomes, in attacking the principle of the Reformation, the passionate
opponent of the Puritans and of Maurice, the ardent apologist of
Barnevelt and the Arminians.

"It is understood, and he makes no mystery of it, that he inclines
towards the vague and undecided doctrine of the Unitarians."

What M. Groen's idea of Unitarians is may be gathered from the statement
about them which he gets from a letter of De Tocqueville.

"They are pure deists; they talk about the Bible, because they do not
wish to shock too severely public opinion, which is prevailingly Christian.
They have a service on Sundays; I have been there.

At it they read verses from Dryden or other English poets on the existence
of God and the immortality of the soul. They deliver a discourse
on some point of morality, and all is said."
In point of fact the wave of protest which stormed the dikes of Dutch
orthodoxy in the seventeenth century stole gently through the bars
of New England Puritanism in the eighteenth.

"Though the large number," says Mr. Bancroft, "still acknowledged the
fixedness of the divine decrees, and the resistless certainty from all
eternity of election and of reprobation, there were not wanting, even
among the clergy, some who had modified the sternness of the ancient
doctrine by making the self-direction of the active powers of man with
freedom of inquiry and private judgment the central idea of a protest
against Calvinism."

Protestantism, cut loose from an infallible church, and drifting with
currents it cannot resist, wakes up once or oftener in every century,
to find itself in a new locality. Then it rubs its eyes and wonders
whether it has found its harbor or only lost its anchor. There is no
end to its disputes, for it has nothing but a fallible vote as
authority for its oracles, and these appeal only to fallible
interpreters.

It is as hard to contend in argument against "the oligarchy of heaven,"
as Motley calls the Calvinistic party, as it was formerly to strive
with them in arms.

To this "aristocracy of God's elect" belonged the party which framed
the declaration of the Synod of Dort; the party which under the
forms of justice shed the blood of the great statesman who had
served his country so long and so well.

To this chosen body belonged the late venerable and truly excellent as
well as learned M.

Groen van Prinsterer, and he exercised the usual right of examining in
the light of his privileged position the views of a "liberal" and
"rationalist" writer who goes to meeting on Sunday to hear verses
from Dryden.

This does not diminish his claim for a fair reading of the "intimate
correspondence," which he considers Mr.

Motley has not duly taken into account, and of the other letters to be
found printed in his somewhat disjointed and fragmentary volume.

   This "intimate correspondence" shows Maurice the
    Stadholder indifferent and lax in internal
    administration and as being constantly
    advised and urged by his relative Count
    William of Nassau. This need of constant urging
    extends to religious as well as other matters, and is inconsistent
with M.

Groen van Prinsterer's assertion that the question was for Maurice
above all religious, and for Barneveld above all political.

Whether its negative evidence can be considered as neutralizing that
which is adduced by Mr. Motley to show the Stadholder's hatred of the
Advocate may be left to the reader who has just risen from the
account of the mock trial and the swift execution of the great and
venerable statesman.

The formal entry on the record upon the day of his "judicial murder"
is singularly solemn and impressive:-- 
"Monday, 13th May, 1619.

To-day was executed with the sword here in the Hague, on a scaffold
thereto erected in the Binnenhof before the steps of the great hall,
Mr.

John of Barneveld, in his life Knight, Lord of Berkel, Rodenrys,
etc., Advocate of Holland and West Friesland, for reasons expressed
in the sentence and otherwise, with confiscation of his property,
after he had served the state thirty- three years two months and
five days, since 8th March, 1586; a man of great activity, business,
memory, and wisdom,--yea, extraordinary in every respect.

He that stands let him see that he does not fall."

Maurice gave an account of the execution of Barneveld to Count William
Lewis on the same day in a note "painfully brief and dry."

Most authors write their own biography consciously or unconsciously.
We have seen Mr.

Motley portraying much of himself, his course of life and his future,
as he would have had it, in his first story.

In this, his last work, it is impossible not to read much of his own
external and internal personal history told under other names and
with different accessories.

The parallelism often accidentally or intentionally passes into
divergence.

He would not have had it too close if he could, but there are various
passages in which it is plain enough that he is telling his own
story.

Mr.

Motley was a diplomatist, and he writes of other diplomatists, and
one in particular, with most significant detail.

It need not be supposed that he intends the "arch intriguer" Aerssens
to stand for himself, or that he would have endured being thought to
identify himself with the man of whose "almost devilish acts" he speaks
so freely.

But the sagacious reader--and he need not be very sharp-sighted--will
very certainly see something more than a mere historical significance
in some of the passages which I shall cite for him to reflect upon.

Mr.

Motley's standard of an ambassador's accomplishments may be judged from
the following passage:--

"That those ministers [those of the Republic] were second to the representatives
of no other European state in capacity and accomplishment was a
fact well known to all who had dealings with them, for the states
required in their diplomatic representatives knowledge of history
and international law, modern languages, and the classics, as well
as familiarity with political customs and social courtesies; the
breeding of gentlemen, in short, and the accomplishments of scholars."

The story of the troubles of Aerssens, the ambassador of the United
Provinces at Paris, must be given at some length, and will repay
careful reading.

"Francis Aerssens . . . continued to be the Dutch ambassador after the
murder of Henry IV. . . . He was beyond doubt one of the ablest
diplomatists in Europe.

Versed in many languages, a classical student, familiar with history
and international law, a man of the world and familiar with its
usages, accustomed to associate with dignity and tact on friendliest
terms with sovereigns, eminent statesmen, and men of letters; endowed
with a facile tongue, a fluent pen, and an eye and ear of singular
acuteness and delicacy; distinguished for unflagging industry and
singular aptitude for secret and intricate affairs;--he had by the
exercise of these various qualities during a period of nearly twenty
years at the court of Henry the Great been able to render inestimable
services to the Republic which he represented.

"He had enjoyed the intimacy and even the confidence of Henry IV.,
so far as any man could be said to possess that monarch's confidence,
and his friendly relations and familiar access to the king gave him
political advantages superior to those of any of his colleagues at
the same court.

"Acting entirely and faithfully according to the instructions of
the Advocate of Holland, he always gratefully and copiously
acknowledged the privilege of being guided and sustained in the
difficult paths he had to traverse by so powerful and active an
intellect.

I have seldom alluded in terms to the instructions and dispatches of
the chief, but every position, negotiation, and opinion of the
envoy --and the reader has seen many of them is pervaded by their
spirit.

"It had become a question whether he was to remain at his post or
return.

It was doubtful whether he wished to be relieved of his embassy or not.
The States of Holland voted 'to leave it to his candid opinion if
in his free conscience he thinks he can serve the public any longer.

If yes, he may keep his office one year more.

If no, he may take leave and come home.'
"Surely the States, under the guidance of the Advocate, had thus acted
with consummate courtesy towards a diplomatist whose position, from
no apparent fault of his own, but by the force of circumstances,--and
rather to his credit than otherwise, --was gravely compromised."
The Queen, Mary de' Medici, had a talk with him, got angry, "became
very red in the face," and wanted to be rid of him.

"Nor was the envoy at first desirous of remaining. . . .

Nevertheless, he yielded reluctantly to Barneveld's request that he
should, for the time at least, remain at his post. Later on, as the
intrigues against him began to unfold themselves, and his faithful
services were made use of at home to blacken his character and
procure his removal, he refused to resign, as to do so would be to
play into the hands of his enemies, and, by inference at least, to
accuse himself of infidelity to his trust. . . .

"It is no wonder that the ambassador was galled to the quick by the outrage
which those concerned in the government were seeking to put upon him.
How could an honest man fail to be overwhelmed with rage and anguish
at being dishonored before the world by his masters for scrupulously
doing his duty, and for maintaining the rights and dignity of his
own country?

He knew that the charges were but pretexts, that the motives of his
enemies were as base as the intrigues themselves, but he also knew
that the world usually sides with the government against the individual,
and that a man's reputation is rarely strong enough to maintain
itself unsullied in a foreign land when his own government stretches
forth its hand, not to shield, but to stab him. . . .

"'I know,' he said, that this plot has been woven partly here in
Holland and partly here by good correspondence in order to drive
me from my post.

"'But as I have discovered this accurately, I have resolved to offer
to my masters the continuance of my very humble service for such
time and under such conditions as they may think good to prescribe.

I prefer forcing my natural and private inclinations to giving an
opportunity for the ministers of this kingdom to discredit us, and to
my enemies to succeed in injuring me, and by fraud and malice to force
me from my post. . . . I am truly sorry, being ready to retire, wishing
to have an honorable testimony in recompense of my labors, that one is
in such hurry to take advantage of my fall. .
. . What envoy will ever dare to speak with vigor if he is not sustained
by the government at home? . . . My enemies have misrepresented my
actions, and my language as passionate, exaggerated, mischievous, but
I have no passion except for the service of my superiors.'

"Barneveld, from well-considered motives of public policy, was favoring
his honorable recall. But he allowed a decorous interval of more than
three years to elapse in which to terminate his affairs, and to
take a deliberate departure from that French embassy to which the
Advocate had originally promoted him, and in which there had been
so many years of mutual benefit and confidence between the two
statesmen.

He used no underhand means. He did not abuse the power of the
States-General which he wielded to cast him suddenly and brutally
from the distinguished post which he occupied, and so to attempt
to dishonor him before the world.

Nothing could be more respectful and conciliatory than the attitude
of the government from first to last towards this distinguished
functionary. The Republic respected itself too much to deal with
honorable agents whose services it felt obliged to dispense with as with
vulgar malefactors who had been detected in crime. . . .

"This work aims at being a political study. I would attempt to exemplify
the influence of individual humors and passions--some of them among
the highest, and others certainly the basest that agitate humanity--upon
the march of great events, upon general historical results at certain
epochs, and upon the destiny of eminent personages."

Here are two suggestive portraits:--
"The Advocate, while acting only in the name of a slender confederacy,
was in truth, so long as he held his place, the prime minister of
European Protestantism.

There was none other to rival him, few to comprehend him, fewer
still to sustain him.

As Prince Maurice was at that time the great soldier of Protestantism,
without clearly scanning the grandeur of the field in which he was
a chief actor, or foreseeing the vastness of its future, so the
Advocate was its statesman and its prophet.

Could the two have worked together as harmoniously as they had done at
an earlier day, it would have been a blessing for the common weal
of Europe.

But, alas! the evil genius of jealousy, which so often forbids cordial
relations between soldier and statesman, already stood shrouded
in the distance, darkly menacing the strenuous patriot, who was
wearing his life out in exertions for what he deemed the true cause
of progress and humanity. . . .

"All history shows that the brilliant soldier of a republic is apt
to have the advantage, in a struggle for popular affection and
popular applause, over the statesman, however consummate. . . .

The great battles and sieges of the prince had been on a world's theatre,
had enchained the attention of Christendom, and on their issue had
frequently depended, or seemed to depend, the very existence of the
nation.
"My reason is quite simple," said Syme. "I attack him rashly because I
am afraid of him."

They followed Syme up the dark stair in silence, and they all came out
simultaneously into the broad sunlight of the morning and the broad
sunlight of Sunday's smile.

"Delightful!" he said. "So pleased to see you all. What an exquisite day
it is. Is the Czar dead?"

The Secretary, who happened to be foremost, drew himself together for a
dignified outburst.

"No, sir," he said sternly "there has been no massacre. I bring you news
of no such disgusting spectacles."

"Disgusting spectacles?" repeated the President, with a bright,
inquiring smile. "You mean Dr. Bull's spectacles?"

The Secretary choked for a moment, and the President went on with a sort
of smooth appeal--

"Of course, we all have our opinions and even our eyes, but really to
call them disgusting before the man himself--"

Dr. Bull tore off his spectacles and broke them on the table.

"My spectacles are blackguardly," he said, "but I'm not. Look at my
face."

"I dare say it's the sort of face that grows on one," said the
President, "in fact, it grows on you; and who am I to quarrel with the
wild fruits upon the Tree of Life? I dare say it will grow on me some
day."

"We have no time for tomfoolery," said the Secretary, breaking in
savagely. "We have come to know what all this means. Who are you? What
are you? Why did you get us all here? Do you know who and what we are?
Are you a half-witted man playing the conspirator, or are you a clever
man playing the fool? Answer me, I tell you."

"Candidates," murmured Sunday, "are only required to answer eight out of
the seventeen questions on the paper. As far as I can make out, you want
me to tell you what I am, and what you are, and what this table is, and
what this Council is, and what this world is for all I know. Well, I
will go so far as to rend the veil of one mystery. If you want to know
what you are, you are a set of highly well-intentioned young jackasses."

"And you," said Syme, leaning forward, "what are you?"

"I? What am I?" roared the President, and he rose slowly to an
incredible height, like some enormous wave about to arch above them
and break. "You want to know what I am, do you? Bull, you are a man of
science. Grub in the roots of those trees and find out the truth about
them. Syme, you are a poet. Stare at those morning clouds. But I tell
you this, that you will have found out the truth of the last tree and
the top-most cloud before the truth about me. You will understand the
sea, and I shall be still a riddle; you shall know what the stars are,
and not know what I am. Since the beginning of the world all men have
hunted me like a wolf--kings and sages, and poets and lawgivers, all the
churches, and all the philosophies. But I have never been caught yet,
and the skies will fall in the time I turn to bay. I have given them a
good run for their money, and I will now."

Before one of them could move, the monstrous man had swung himself like
some huge ourang-outang over the balustrade of the balcony. Yet before
he dropped he pulled himself up again as on a horizontal bar, and
thrusting his great chin over the edge of the balcony, said solemnly--

"There's one thing I'll tell you though about who I am. I am the man in
the dark room, who made you all policemen."

With that he fell from the balcony, bouncing on the stones below like a
great ball of india-rubber, and went bounding off towards the corner of
the Alhambra, where he hailed a hansom-cab and sprang inside it. The six
detectives had been standing thunderstruck and livid in the light of his
last assertion; but when he disappeared into the cab, Syme's practical
senses returned to him, and leaping over the balcony so recklessly as
almost to break his legs, he called another cab.

He and Bull sprang into the cab together, the Professor and the
Inspector into another, while the Secretary and the late Gogol scrambled
into a third just in time to pursue the flying Syme, who was pursuing
the flying President. Sunday led them a wild chase towards the
north-west, his cabman, evidently under the influence of more than
common inducements, urging the horse at breakneck speed. But Syme was in
no mood for delicacies, and he stood up in his own cab shouting, "Stop
thief!" until crowds ran along beside his cab, and policemen began to
stop and ask questions. All this had its influence upon the President's
cabman, who began to look dubious, and to slow down to a trot. He opened
the trap to talk reasonably to his fare, and in so doing let the long
whip droop over the front of the cab. Sunday leant forward, seized it,
and jerked it violently out of the man's hand. Then standing up in front
of the cab himself, he lashed the horse and roared aloud, so that they
went down the streets like a flying storm. Through street after street
and square after square went whirling this preposterous vehicle, in
which the fare was urging the horse and the driver trying desperately
to stop it. The other three cabs came after it (if the phrase be
permissible of a cab) like panting hounds. Shops and streets shot by
like rattling arrows.

At the highest ecstacy of speed, Sunday turned round on the splashboard
where he stood, and sticking his great grinning head out of the cab,
with white hair whistling in the wind, he made a horrible face at
his pursuers, like some colossal urchin. Then raising his right hand
swiftly, he flung a ball of paper in Syme's face and vanished. Syme
caught the thing while instinctively warding it off, and discovered that
it consisted of two crumpled papers. One was addressed to himself, and
the other to Dr. Bull, with a very long, and it is to be feared partly
ironical, string of letters after his name. Dr. Bull's address was,
at any rate, considerably longer than his communication, for the
communication consisted entirely of the words:--

"What about Martin Tupper now?"

"What does the old maniac mean?" asked Bull, staring at the words. "What
does yours say, Syme?"

Syme's message was, at any rate, longer, and ran as follows:--

"No one would regret anything in the nature of an interference by the
Archdeacon more than I. I trust it will not come to that. But, for the
last time, where are your goloshes? The thing is too bad, especially
after what uncle said."

The President's cabman seemed to be regaining some control over his
horse, and the pursuers gained a little as they swept round into the
Edgware Road. And here there occurred what seemed to the allies a
providential stoppage. Traffic of every kind was swerving to right or
left or stopping, for down the long road was coming the unmistakable
roar announcing the fire-engine, which in a few seconds went by like a
brazen thunderbolt. But quick as it went by, Sunday had bounded out of
his cab, sprung at the fire-engine, caught it, slung himself on to it,
and was seen as he disappeared in the noisy distance talking to the
astonished fireman with explanatory gestures.

"After him!" howled Syme. "He can't go astray now. There's no mistaking
a fire-engine."

The three cabmen, who had been stunned for a moment, whipped up their
horses and slightly decreased the distance between themselves and their
disappearing prey. The President acknowledged this proximity by coming
to the back of the car, bowing repeatedly, kissing his hand, and finally
flinging a neatly-folded note into the bosom of Inspector Ratcliffe.
When that gentleman opened it, not without impatience, he found it
contained the words:--

   "Fly at once. The truth about your trouser-stretchers is known.
   --A FRIEND."

The fire-engine had struck still farther to the north, into a region
that they did not recognise; and as it ran by a line of high railings
shadowed with trees, the six friends were startled, but somewhat
relieved, to see the President leap from the fire-engine, though whether
through another whim or the increasing protest of his entertainers they
could not see. Before the three cabs, however, could reach up to the
spot, he had gone up the high railings like a huge grey cat, tossed
himself over, and vanished in a darkness of leaves.

Syme with a furious gesture stopped his cab, jumped out, and sprang also
to the escalade. When he had one leg over the fence and his friends
were following, he turned a face on them which shone quite pale in the
shadow.

"What place can this be?" he asked. "Can it be the old devil's house?
I've heard he has a house in North London."

"All the better," said the Secretary grimly, planting a foot in a
foothold, "we shall find him at home."

"No, but it isn't that," said Syme, knitting his brows. "I hear the most
horrible noises, like devils laughing and sneezing and blowing their
devilish noses!"

"His dogs barking, of course," said the Secretary.

"Why not say his black-beetles barking!" said Syme furiously, "snails
barking! geraniums barking! Did you ever hear a dog bark like that?"

He held up his hand, and there came out of the thicket a long growling
roar that seemed to get under the skin and freeze the flesh--a low
thrilling roar that made a throbbing in the air all about them.

"The dogs of Sunday would be no ordinary dogs," said Gogol, and
shuddered.

Syme had jumped down on the other side, but he still stood listening
impatiently.

"Well, listen to that," he said, "is that a dog--anybody's dog?"

There broke upon their ear a hoarse screaming as of things protesting
and clamouring in sudden pain; and then, far off like an echo, what
sounded like a long nasal trumpet.

"Well, his house ought to be hell!" said the Secretary; "and if it is
hell, I'm going in!" and he sprang over the tall railings almost with
one swing.

The others followed. They broke through a tangle of plants and shrubs,
and came out on an open path. Nothing was in sight, but Dr. Bull
suddenly struck his hands together.

"Why, you asses," he cried, "it's the Zoo!"

As they were looking round wildly for any trace of their wild quarry,
a keeper in uniform came running along the path with a man in plain
clothes.

"Has it come this way?" gasped the keeper.

"Has what?" asked Syme.

"The elephant!" cried the keeper. "An elephant has gone mad and run
away!"

"He has run away with an old gentleman," said the other stranger
breathlessly, "a poor old gentleman with white hair!"

"What sort of old gentleman?" asked Syme, with great curiosity.

"A very large and fat old gentleman in light grey clothes," said the
keeper eagerly.

"Well," said Syme, "if he's that particular kind of old gentleman,
if you're quite sure that he's a large and fat old gentleman in grey
clothes, you may take my word for it that the elephant has not run away
with him. He has run away with the elephant. The elephant is not made by
God that could run away with him if he did not consent to the elopement.
And, by thunder, there he is!"

There was no doubt about it this time. Clean across the space of grass,
about two hundred yards away, with a crowd screaming and scampering
vainly at his heels, went a huge grey elephant at an awful stride, with
his trunk thrown out as rigid as a ship's bowsprit, and trumpeting like
the trumpet of doom. On the back of the bellowing and plunging animal
sat President Sunday with all the placidity of a sultan, but goading the
animal to a furious speed with some sharp object in his hand.

"Stop him!" screamed the populace. "He'll be out of the gate!"

"Stop a landslide!" said the keeper. "He is out of the gate!"

And even as he spoke, a final crash and roar of terror announced that
the great grey elephant had broken out of the gates of the Zoological
Gardens, and was careening down Albany Street like a new and swift sort
of omnibus.

"Great Lord!" cried Bull, "I never knew an elephant could go so fast.
Well, it must be hansom-cabs again if we are to keep him in sight."

As they raced along to the gate out of which the elephant had vanished,
Syme felt a glaring panorama of the strange animals in the cages which
they passed. Afterwards he thought it queer that he should have seen
them so clearly. He remembered especially seeing pelicans, with their
preposterous, pendant throats. He wondered why the pelican was the
symbol of charity, except it was that it wanted a good deal of charity
to admire a pelican. He remembered a hornbill, which was simply a huge
yellow beak with a small bird tied on behind it. The whole gave him a
sensation, the vividness of which he could not explain, that Nature was
always making quite mysterious jokes. Sunday had told them that they
would understand him when they had understood the stars. He wondered
whether even the archangels understood the hornbill.

The six unhappy detectives flung themselves into cabs and followed the
elephant sharing the terror which he spread through the long stretch of
the streets. This time Sunday did not turn round, but offered them the
solid stretch of his unconscious back, which maddened them, if possible,
more than his previous mockeries. Just before they came to Baker Street,
however, he was seen to throw something far up into the air, as a boy
does a ball meaning to catch it again. But at their rate of racing it
fell far behind, just by the cab containing Gogol; and in faint hope of
a clue or for some impulse unexplainable, he stopped his cab so as to
pick it up. It was addressed to himself, and was quite a bulky parcel.
On examination, however, its bulk was found to consist of thirty-three
pieces of paper of no value wrapped one round the other. When the last
covering was torn away it reduced itself to a small slip of paper, on
which was written:--

"The word, I fancy, should be 'pink'."

The man once known as Gogol said nothing, but the movements of his hands
and feet were like those of a man urging a horse to renewed efforts.

Through street after street, through district after district, went the
prodigy of the flying elephant, calling crowds to every window, and
driving the traffic left and right. And still through all this insane
publicity the three cabs toiled after it, until they came to be regarded
as part of a procession, and perhaps the advertisement of a circus. They
went at such a rate that distances were shortened beyond belief, and
Syme saw the Albert Hall in Kensington when he thought that he was still
in Paddington. The animal's pace was even more fast and free through the
empty, aristocratic streets of South Kensington, and he finally headed
towards that part of the sky-line where the enormous Wheel of Earl's
Court stood up in the sky. The wheel grew larger and larger, till it
filled heaven like the wheel of stars.

The beast outstripped the cabs. They lost him round several corners, and
when they came to one of the gates of the Earl's Court Exhibition they
found themselves finally blocked. In front of them was an enormous
crowd; in the midst of it was an enormous elephant, heaving and
shuddering as such shapeless creatures do. But the President had
disappeared.

"Where has he gone to?" asked Syme, slipping to the ground.

"Gentleman rushed into the Exhibition, sir!" said an official in a dazed
manner. Then he added in an injured voice: "Funny gentleman, sir. Asked
me to hold his horse, and gave me this."

He held out with distaste a piece of folded paper, addressed: "To the
Secretary of the Central Anarchist Council."

The Secretary, raging, rent it open, and found written inside it:--

   "When the herring runs a mile,
    Let the Secretary smile;
    When the herring tries to fly,
    Let the Secretary die.
                    Rustic Proverb."

"Why the eternal crikey," began the Secretary, "did you let the man in?
Do people commonly come to your Exhibition riding on mad elephants? Do--"

"Look!" shouted Syme suddenly. "Look over there!"

"Look at what?" asked the Secretary savagely.

"Look at the captive balloon!" said Syme, and pointed in a frenzy.

"Why the blazes should I look at a captive balloon?" demanded the
Secretary. "What is there queer about a captive balloon?"

"Nothing," said Syme, "except that it isn't captive!"

They all turned their eyes to where the balloon swung and swelled above
the Exhibition on a string, like a child's balloon. A second afterwards
the string came in two just under the car, and the balloon, broken
loose, floated away with the freedom of a soap bubble.

"Ten thousand devils!" shrieked the Secretary. "He's got into it!" and
he shook his fists at the sky.

The balloon, borne by some chance wind, came right above them, and they
could see the great white head of the President peering over the side
and looking benevolently down on them.

"God bless my soul!" said the Professor with the elderly manner that he
could never disconnect from his bleached beard and parchment face. "God
bless my soul! I seemed to fancy that something fell on the top of my
hat!"

He put up a trembling hand and took from that shelf a piece of twisted
paper, which he opened absently only to find it inscribed with a true
lover's knot and, the words:--

"Your beauty has not left me indifferent.--From LITTLE SNOWDROP."

There was a short silence, and then Syme said, biting his beard--

"I'm not beaten yet. The blasted thing must come down somewhere. Let's
follow it!"


CHAPTER XIV. THE SIX PHILOSOPHERS

ACROSS green fields, and breaking through blooming hedges, toiled six
draggled detectives, about five miles out of London. The optimist of the
party had at first proposed that they should follow the balloon across
South England in hansom-cabs. But he was ultimately convinced of the
persistent refusal of the balloon to follow the roads, and the
still more persistent refusal of the cabmen to follow the balloon.
Consequently the tireless though exasperated travellers broke through
black thickets and ploughed through ploughed fields till each was turned
into a figure too outrageous to be mistaken for a tramp. Those green
hills of Surrey saw the final collapse and tragedy of the admirable
light grey suit in which Syme had set out from Saffron Park. His silk
hat was broken over his nose by a swinging bough, his coat-tails were
torn to the shoulder by arresting thorns, the clay of England was
splashed up to his collar; but he still carried his yellow beard forward
with a silent and furious determination, and his eyes were still fixed
on that floating ball of gas, which in the full flush of sunset seemed
coloured like a sunset cloud.

"After all," he said, "it is very beautiful!"

"It is singularly and strangely beautiful!" said the Professor. "I wish
the beastly gas-bag would burst!"

"No," said Dr. Bull, "I hope it won't. It might hurt the old boy."

"Hurt him!" said the vindictive Professor, "hurt him! Not as much as I'd
hurt him if I could get up with him. Little Snowdrop!"

"I don't want him hurt, somehow," said Dr. Bull.

"What!" cried the Secretary bitterly. "Do you believe all that tale
about his being our man in the dark room? Sunday would say he was
anybody."

"I don't know whether I believe it or not," said Dr. Bull. "But it isn't
that that I mean. I can't wish old Sunday's balloon to burst because--"

"Well," said Syme impatiently, "because?"

"Well, because he's so jolly like a balloon himself," said Dr. Bull
desperately. "I don't understand a word of all that idea of his being
the same man who gave us all our blue cards. It seems to make everything
nonsense. But I don't care who knows it, I always had a sympathy for
old Sunday himself, wicked as he was. Just as if he was a great bouncing
baby. How can I explain what my queer sympathy was? It didn't prevent my
fighting him like hell! Shall I make it clear if I say that I liked him
because he was so fat?"

"You will not," said the Secretary.

"I've got it now," cried Bull, "it was because he was so fat and so
light. Just like a balloon. We always think of fat people as heavy, but
he could have danced against a sylph. I see now what I mean. Moderate
strength is shown in violence, supreme strength is shown in levity. It
was like the old speculations--what would happen if an elephant could
leap up in the sky like a grasshopper?"

"Our elephant," said Syme, looking upwards, "has leapt into the sky like
a grasshopper."

"And somehow," concluded Bull, "that's why I can't help liking old
Sunday. No, it's not an admiration of force, or any silly thing like
that. There is a kind of gaiety in the thing, as if he were bursting
with some good news. Haven't you sometimes felt it on a spring day?
You know Nature plays tricks, but somehow that day proves they are
good-natured tricks. I never read the Bible myself, but that part they
laugh at is literal truth, 'Why leap ye, ye high hills?' The hills do
leap--at least, they try to.... Why do I like Sunday?... how can I tell
you?... because he's such a Bounder."

There was a long silence, and then the Secretary said in a curious,
strained voice--

"You do not know Sunday at all. Perhaps it is because you are better
than I, and do not know hell. I was a fierce fellow, and a trifle morbid
from the first. The man who sits in darkness, and who chose us all,
chose me because I had all the crazy look of a conspirator--because my
smile went crooked, and my eyes were gloomy, even when I smiled. But
there must have been something in me that answered to the nerves in all
these anarchic men. For when I first saw Sunday he expressed to me, not
your airy vitality, but something both gross and sad in the Nature of
Things. I found him smoking in a twilight room, a room with brown blind
down, infinitely more depressing than the genial darkness in which our
master lives. He sat there on a bench, a huge heap of a man, dark and
out of shape. He listened to all my words without speaking or even
stirring. I poured out my most passionate appeals, and asked my most
eloquent questions. Then, after a long silence, the Thing began to
shake, and I thought it was shaken by some secret malady. It shook like
a loathsome and living jelly. It reminded me of everything I had ever
read about the base bodies that are the origin of life--the deep sea
lumps and protoplasm. It seemed like the final form of matter, the most
shapeless and the most shameful. I could only tell myself, from its
shudderings, that it was something at least that such a monster could
be miserable. And then it broke upon me that the bestial mountain was
shaking with a lonely laughter, and the laughter was at me. Do you
ask me to forgive him that? It is no small thing to be laughed at by
something at once lower and stronger than oneself."

"Surely you fellows are exaggerating wildly," cut in the clear voice of
Inspector Ratcliffe. "President Sunday is a terrible fellow for one's
intellect, but he is not such a Barnum's freak physically as you make
out. He received me in an ordinary office, in a grey check coat, in
broad daylight. He talked to me in an ordinary way. But I'll tell you
what is a trifle creepy about Sunday. His room is neat, his clothes are
neat, everything seems in order; but he's absent-minded. Sometimes his
great bright eyes go quite blind. For hours he forgets that you are
there. Now absent-mindedness is just a bit too awful in a bad man. We
think of a wicked man as vigilant. We can't think of a wicked man who is
honestly and sincerely dreamy, because we daren't think of a wicked man
alone with himself. An absentminded man means a good-natured man. It
means a man who, if he happens to see you, will apologise. But how will
you bear an absentminded man who, if he happens to see you, will kill
you? That is what tries the nerves, abstraction combined with cruelty.
Men have felt it sometimes when they went through wild forests, and felt
that the animals there were at once innocent and pitiless. They might
ignore or slay. How would you like to pass ten mortal hours in a parlour
with an absent-minded tiger?"

"And what do you think of Sunday, Gogol?" asked Syme.

"I don't think of Sunday on principle," said Gogol simply, "any more
than I stare at the sun at noonday."

"Well, that is a point of view," said Syme thoughtfully. "What do you
say, Professor?"

The Professor was walking with bent head and trailing stick, and he did
not answer at all.

"Wake up, Professor!" said Syme genially. "Tell us what you think of
Sunday."

The Professor spoke at last very slowly.

"I think something," he said, "that I cannot say clearly. Or, rather,
I think something that I cannot even think clearly. But it is something
like this. My early life, as you know, was a bit too large and loose.

"Well, when I saw Sunday's face I thought it was too large--everybody
does, but I also thought it was too loose. The face was so big, that one
couldn't focus it or make it a face at all. The eye was so far away from
the nose, that it wasn't an eye. The mouth was so much by itself,
that one had to think of it by itself. The whole thing is too hard to
explain."

He paused for a little, still trailing his stick, and then went on--

"But put it this way. Walking up a road at night, I have seen a lamp
and a lighted window and a cloud make together a most complete and
unmistakable face. If anyone in heaven has that face I shall know him
again. Yet when I walked a little farther I found that there was no
face, that the window was ten yards away, the lamp ten hundred yards,
the cloud beyond the world. Well, Sunday's face escaped me; it ran away
to right and left, as such chance pictures run away. And so his face
has made me, somehow, doubt whether there are any faces. I don't know
whether your face, Bull, is a face or a combination in perspective.
Perhaps one black disc of your beastly glasses is quite close and
another fifty miles away. Oh, the doubts of a materialist are not worth
a dump. Sunday has taught me the last and the worst doubts, the doubts
of a spiritualist. I am a Buddhist, I suppose; and Buddhism is not
a creed, it is a doubt. My poor dear Bull, I do not believe that you
really have a face. I have not faith enough to believe in matter."

Syme's eyes were still fixed upon the errant orb, which, reddened in the
evening light, looked like some rosier and more innocent world.

"Have you noticed an odd thing," he said, "about all your descriptions?
Each man of you finds Sunday quite different, yet each man of you can
only find one thing to compare him to--the universe itself. Bull
finds him like the earth in spring, Gogol like the sun at noonday. The
Secretary is reminded of the shapeless protoplasm, and the Inspector
of the carelessness of virgin forests. The Professor says he is like a
changing landscape. This is queer, but it is queerer still that I also
have had my odd notion about the President, and I also find that I think
of Sunday as I think of the whole world."

"Get on a little faster, Syme," said Bull; "never mind the balloon."

"When I first saw Sunday," said Syme slowly, "I only saw his back; and
when I saw his back, I knew he was the worst man in the world. His neck
and shoulders were brutal, like those of some apish god. His head had a
stoop that was hardly human, like the stoop of an ox. In fact, I had
at once the revolting fancy that this was not a man at all, but a beast
dressed up in men's clothes."

"Get on," said Dr. Bull.

"And then the queer thing happened. I had seen his back from the street,
as he sat in the balcony. Then I entered the hotel, and coming round the
other side of him, saw his face in the sunlight. His face frightened me,
as it did everyone; but not because it was brutal, not because it was
evil. On the contrary, it frightened me because it was so beautiful,
because it was so good."

"Syme," exclaimed the Secretary, "are you ill?"

"It was like the face of some ancient archangel, judging justly after
heroic wars. There was laughter in the eyes, and in the mouth honour
and sorrow. There was the same white hair, the same great, grey-clad
shoulders that I had seen from behind. But when I saw him from behind I
was certain he was an animal, and when I saw him in front I knew he was
a god."

"Pan," said the Professor dreamily, "was a god and an animal."

"Then, and again and always," went on Syme like a man talking to
himself, "that has been for me the mystery of Sunday, and it is also the
mystery of the world. When I see the horrible back, I am sure the noble
face is but a mask. When I see the face but for an instant, I know the
back is only a jest. Bad is so bad, that we cannot but think good an
accident; good is so good, that we feel certain that evil could be
explained. But the whole came to a kind of crest yesterday when I raced
Sunday for the cab, and was just behind him all the way."

"Had you time for thinking then?" asked Ratcliffe.

"Time," replied Syme, "for one outrageous thought. I was suddenly
possessed with the idea that the blind, blank back of his head really
was his face--an awful, eyeless face staring at me! And I fancied that
the figure running in front of me was really a figure running backwards,
and dancing as he ran."

"Horrible!" said Dr. Bull, and shuddered.

"Horrible is not the word," said Syme. "It was exactly the worst instant
of my life. And yet ten minutes afterwards, when he put his head out of
the cab and made a grimace like a gargoyle, I knew that he was only like
a father playing hide-and-seek with his children."

"It is a long game," said the Secretary, and frowned at his broken
boots.

"Listen to me," cried Syme with extraordinary emphasis. "Shall I tell
you the secret of the whole world? It is that we have only known the
back of the world. We see everything from behind, and it looks brutal.
That is not a tree, but the back of a tree. That is not a cloud, but the
back of a cloud. Cannot you see that everything is stooping and hiding a
face? If we could only get round in front--"

"Look!" cried out Bull clamorously, "the balloon is coming down!"

There was no need to cry out to Syme, who had never taken his eyes off
it. He saw the great luminous globe suddenly stagger in the sky, right
itself, and then sink slowly behind the trees like a setting sun.

The man called Gogol, who had hardly spoken through all their weary
travels, suddenly threw up his hands like a lost spirit.

"He is dead!" he cried. "And now I know he was my friend--my friend in
the dark!"

Wilkie, the distinguished R.A. and Mr. Irving were fellow travellers
on the continent. In their rambles about some of the old cities of
Spain, they were struck with scenes and incidents which reminded
them of passages in the Arabian Nights.

Mr. Wilkie urged his companion to write something that should illustrate
those peculiarities, "something in the Haroun Alraschid style"
that should have a dash of that Arabian spice which pervades
everything in Spain.

Mr. Irving set about his task with enthusiasm: his study was the
spacious Alhambra itself, and the governor gave the author and his
companion, permission to occupy his vacant apartments in the Moorish
palace: Mr.

Wilkie soon returned to England, leaving Mr.

Irving at the Alhambra, where he remained "for several months, spell-bound
in the old enchanted pile."

The result was two volumes of legends and traditions, which for
interesting incident, and gracefulness of narrative, have few
parallels in our romance-writing.[5] They are dedicated, in good
taste, to the ingenious originator, Mr.

Wilkie.

[Footnote 5: For Two Illustrations and Notice of this interesting work,
See _Mirror_, vol. xix. p. 337 to 342; whence the above origin of
the work has been quoted.]

In person, Mr. Irving is of middle height; and, according to a
contemporary, of "modest deportment and easy attitude, with all the
grace and dignity of an English gentleman."[6] Another describes him
as "a most amiable man, and great genius, but not lively in
conversation."

His features have a pleasing regularity, and are lit up, at every corner,
with that delightful humour which flows in a rich vein throughout
his writings, and forms their most attractive charm.

[Footnote 6: Fraser's Magazine.]
Having noticed Mr. Irving's principal works, we have left but little
occasion to speak of his general style. A contemporary has denominated
him the "Goldsmith of the age;" and of Goldsmith we must remember
that, in his epitaph, Dr.

Johnson observes: "he left no species of writing untouched, and adorned
all to which he applied himself"--a tribute which can scarcely be
appropriately paid to any writer of our time.

However, we know not any author that Mr.

Irving so much resembles as Goldsmith: although no imitator, his
style and language forcibly remind us of that easy flow so peculiar
to the Citizen of the World.

But, we have higher warrant for this parallel.

"It seems probable," observes a critical writer of considerable
acumen, "that Mr.

Irving might prove no contemptible rival to Goldsmith, whose turn of mind
he very much inherits, and of whose style he particularly reminds
us.

Like him, too, Mr. Irving possesses the art of setting ludicrous
perplexities in the most irresistible point of view, and we think
equals him in the variety of humour."[7]

[Footnote 7: Quarterly Review.--Such is the variety displayed in the
Salmagundi; the papers were supposed to be the joint efforts of several
literati.]
To conclude, we find the literary character of Mr.

Irving illustrated in a contemporary journal, with unusual spirit.
"There never was a writer," observes the editor, "whose popularity was
more matter of feeling, or more intimate than Washington Irving,
perhaps, because he appeared at once to our simplest and kindliest
emotions.

His affections were those of 'hearth and home;' the pictures he
delighted to draw were those of natural loveliness, linked with human
sympathies; and a too unusual thing with the writers of our time--he
looked upon God's works, and 'saw that they were good.' * * * With him
the wine of life is not always on the lees. An exquisite vein of poetry
runs through every page,--and of poetry, his epithets who does not
remember--'the shark, glancing like a spectre through the blue seas.'"[8]

[Footnote 8: Literary Gazette.]
* * * * *

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.

It was typical of him that while he had carried his bearded chin forward
fiercely so long as anything could be done, when the whole business was
taken out of his hands he fell back on the cushions in a frank collapse.

Very gradually and very vaguely he realised into what rich roads the
carriage was carrying him. He saw that they passed the stone gates of
what might have been a park, that they began gradually to climb a hill
which, while wooded on both sides, was somewhat more orderly than a
forest. Then there began to grow upon him, as upon a man slowly waking
from a healthy sleep, a pleasure in everything. He felt that the hedges
were what hedges should be, living walls; that a hedge is like a human
army, disciplined, but all the more alive. He saw high elms behind the
hedges, and vaguely thought how happy boys would be climbing there. Then
his carriage took a turn of the path, and he saw suddenly and quietly,
like a long, low, sunset cloud, a long, low house, mellow in the mild
light of sunset. All the six friends compared notes afterwards and
quarrelled; but they all agreed that in some unaccountable way the
place reminded them of their boyhood. It was either this elm-top or that
crooked path, it was either this scrap of orchard or that shape of a
window; but each man of them declared that he could remember this place
before he could remember his mother.

When the carriages eventually rolled up to a large, low, cavernous
gateway, another man in the same uniform, but wearing a silver star
on the grey breast of his coat, came out to meet them. This impressive
person said to the bewildered Syme--

"Refreshments are provided for you in your room."

Syme, under the influence of the same mesmeric sleep of amazement, went
up the large oaken stairs after the respectful attendant. He entered a
splendid suite of apartments that seemed to be designed specially for
him. He walked up to a long mirror with the ordinary instinct of his
class, to pull his tie straight or to smooth his hair; and there he saw
the frightful figure that he was--blood running down his face from where
the bough had struck him, his hair standing out like yellow rags of rank
grass, his clothes torn into long, wavering tatters. At once the whole
enigma sprang up, simply as the question of how he had got there, and
how he was to get out again. Exactly at the same moment a man in blue,
who had been appointed as his valet, said very solemnly--

"I have put out your clothes, sir."

"Clothes!" said Syme sardonically. "I have no clothes except these," and
he lifted two long strips of his frock-coat in fascinating festoons, and
made a movement as if to twirl like a ballet girl.

"My master asks me to say," said the attendant, "that there is a fancy
dress ball tonight, and that he desires you to put on the costume that
I have laid out. Meanwhile, sir, there is a bottle of Burgundy and some
cold pheasant, which he hopes you will not refuse, as it is some hours
before supper."

"Cold pheasant is a good thing," said Syme reflectively, "and Burgundy
is a spanking good thing. But really I do not want either of them so
much as I want to know what the devil all this means, and what sort of
costume you have got laid out for me. Where is it?"

The servant lifted off a kind of ottoman a long peacock-blue drapery,
rather of the nature of a domino, on the front of which was emblazoned
a large golden sun, and which was splashed here and there with flaming
stars and crescents.

"You're to be dressed as Thursday, sir," said the valet somewhat
affably.

"Dressed as Thursday!" said Syme in meditation. "It doesn't sound a warm
costume."

"Oh, yes, sir," said the other eagerly, "the Thursday costume is quite
warm, sir. It fastens up to the chin."

"Well, I don't understand anything," said Syme, sighing. "I have been
used so long to uncomfortable adventures that comfortable adventures
knock me out. Still, I may be allowed to ask why I should be
particularly like Thursday in a green frock spotted all over with the
sun and moon. Those orbs, I think, shine on other days. I once saw the
moon on Tuesday, I remember."

"Beg pardon, sir," said the valet, "Bible also provided for you," and
with a respectful and rigid finger he pointed out a passage in the first
chapter of Genesis. Syme read it wondering. It was that in which the
fourth day of the week is associated with the creation of the sun and
moon. Here, however, they reckoned from a Christian Sunday.

"This is getting wilder and wilder," said Syme, as he sat down in a
chair. "Who are these people who provide cold pheasant and Burgundy, and
green clothes and Bibles? Do they provide everything?"

"Yes, sir, everything," said the attendant gravely. "Shall I help you on
with your costume?"

"Oh, hitch the bally thing on!" said Syme impatiently.

But though he affected to despise the mummery, he felt a curious freedom
and naturalness in his movements as the blue and gold garment fell about
him; and when he found that he had to wear a sword, it stirred a boyish
dream. As he passed out of the room he flung the folds across his
shoulder with a gesture, his sword stood out at an angle, and he had all
the swagger of a troubadour. For these disguises did not disguise, but
reveal.


CHAPTER XV. THE ACCUSER

AS Syme strode along the corridor he saw the Secretary standing at the
top of a great flight of stairs. The man had never looked so noble. He
was draped in a long robe of starless black, down the centre of which
fell a band or broad stripe of pure white, like a single shaft of light.
The whole looked like some very severe ecclesiastical vestment. There
was no need for Syme to search his memory or the Bible in order to
remember that the first day of creation marked the mere creation of
light out of darkness. The vestment itself would alone have suggested
the symbol; and Syme felt also how perfectly this pattern of pure white
and black expressed the soul of the pale and austere Secretary, with his
inhuman veracity and his cold frenzy, which made him so easily make
war on the anarchists, and yet so easily pass for one of them. Syme was
scarcely surprised to notice that, amid all the ease and hospitality of
their new surroundings, this man's eyes were still stern. No smell
of ale or orchards could make the Secretary cease to ask a reasonable
question.

If Syme had been able to see himself, he would have realised that he,
too, seemed to be for the first time himself and no one else. For if the
Secretary stood for that philosopher who loves the original and formless
light, Syme was a type of the poet who seeks always to make the light
in special shapes, to split it up into sun and star. The philosopher may
sometimes love the infinite; the poet always loves the finite. For him
the great moment is not the creation of light, but the creation of the
sun and moon.

As they descended the broad stairs together they overtook Ratcliffe,
who was clad in spring green like a huntsman, and the pattern upon whose
garment was a green tangle of trees. For he stood for that third day
on which the earth and green things were made, and his square, sensible
face, with its not unfriendly cynicism, seemed appropriate enough to it.

Motley writes:--
"My two concluding volumes of the United Netherlands are passing rapidly
through the press. Indeed, Volume III. is entirely printed and a third
of Volume IV.

"If I live ten years longer I shall have probably written the natural
sequel to the first two works,--viz., the Thirty Years' War.
After that I shall cease to scourge the public.

"I don't know whether my last two volumes are good or bad; I only know
that they are true--but that need n't make them amusing.

"Alas! one never knows when one becomes a bore."
In 1868 the two concluding volumes of the "History of the Netherlands"
were published at the same time in London and in New York. The events
described and the characters delineated in these two volumes had,
perhaps, less peculiar interest for English and American readers than
some of those which had lent attraction to the preceding ones.

There was no scene like the siege of Antwerp, no story like that of the
Spanish Armada.

There were no names that sounded to our ears like those of Sir Philip
Sidney and Leicester and Amy Robsart. But the main course of his
narrative flowed on with the same breadth and depth of learning and
the same brilliancy of expression. The monumental work continued as nobly
as it had begun. The facts had been slowly, quietly gathered, one by
one, like pebbles from the empty channel of a brook. The style was fluent,
impetuous, abundant, impatient, as it were, at times, and leaping the
sober boundaries prescribed to it, like the torrent which rushes through
the same channel when the rains have filled it. Thus there was matter
for criticism in his use of language. He was not always careful in the
construction of his sentences. He introduced expressions now and then
into his vocabulary which reminded one of his earlier literary efforts.

He used stronger language at times than was necessary, coloring too
highly, shading too deeply in his pictorial delineations. To come
to the matter of his narrative, it must be granted that not every
reader will care to follow him through all the details of diplomatic
intrigues which he has with such industry and sagacity extricated
from the old manuscripts in which they had long lain hidden.

But we turn a few pages and we come to one of those descriptions which
arrest us at once and show him in his power and brilliancy as a literary
artist.

His characters move before us with the features of life; we can see
Elizabeth, or Philip, or Maurice, not as a name connected with
events, but as a breathing and acting human being, to be loved or
hated, admired or despised, as if he or she were our contemporary.

That all his judgments would not be accepted as final we might easily
anticipate; he could not help writing more or less as a partisan,
but he was a partisan on the side of freedom in politics and religion,
of human nature as against every form of tyranny, secular or priestly,
of noble manhood wherever he saw it as against meanness and violence
and imposture, whether clad in the soldier's mail or the emperor's
purple.

His sternest critics, and even these admiring ones, were yet to be found
among those who with fundamental beliefs at variance with his own
followed him in his long researches among the dusty annals of the
past.

The work of the learned M. Groen van Prinsterer,--[Maurice et Barnevelt,
Etude Historique. Utrecht, 1875.]--devoted expressly to the revision and
correction of what the author considers the erroneous views of Mr. Motley
on certain important points, bears, notwithstanding, such sincere and
hearty tribute to his industry, his acquisitions, his brilliant
qualities as a historian, that some extracts from it will be read, I
think, with interest.

"My first interview, more than twenty years ago, with Mr. Lothrop Motley,
has left an indelible impression on my memory.

"It was the 8th of August, 1853. A note is handed me from our eminent
archivist Bakhuyzen van den Brink. It informs me that I am to receive a
visit from an American, who, having been struck by the analogies between
the United Provinces and the United States, between Washington and the
founder of our independence, has interrupted his diplomatic career
to write the life of William the First; that he has already given
proof of ardor and perseverance, having worked in libraries and
among collections of manuscripts, and that he is coming to pursue
his studies at the Hague.

"While I am surprised and delighted with this intelligence, I am
informed that Mr. Motley himself is waiting for my answer. My
eagerness to make the acquaintance of such an associate in my
sympathies and my labors may be well imagined.Then Sunday spoke, but so
dreamily that he might have been continuing a conversation rather than
beginning one.

"We will eat and drink later," he said. "Let us remain together a
little, we who have loved each other so sadly, and have fought so long.
I seem to remember only centuries of heroic war, in which you were
always heroes--epic on epic, iliad on iliad, and you always brothers
in arms. Whether it was but recently (for time is nothing), or at the
beginning of the world, I sent you out to war. I sat in the darkness,
where there is not any created thing, and to you I was only a voice
commanding valour and an unnatural virtue. You heard the voice in the
dark, and you never heard it again. The sun in heaven denied it, the
earth and sky denied it, all human wisdom denied it. And when I met you
in the daylight I denied it myself."

Syme stirred sharply in his seat, but otherwise there was silence, and
the incomprehensible went on.

"But you were men. You did not forget your secret honour, though the
whole cosmos turned an engine of torture to tear it out of you. I knew
how near you were to hell. I know how you, Thursday, crossed swords with
King Satan, and how you, Wednesday, named me in the hour without hope."

There was complete silence in the starlit garden, and then the
black-browed Secretary, implacable, turned in his chair towards Sunday,
and said in a harsh voice--

"Who and what are you?"

"I am the Sabbath," said the other without moving. "I am the peace of
God."

The Secretary started up, and stood crushing his costly robe in his
hand.

"I know what you mean," he cried, "and it is exactly that that I cannot
forgive you. I know you are contentment, optimism, what do they call
the thing, an ultimate reconciliation. Well, I am not reconciled. If you
were the man in the dark room, why were you also Sunday, an offense to
the sunlight? If you were from the first our father and our friend, why
were you also our greatest enemy? We wept, we fled in terror; the iron
entered into our souls--and you are the peace of God! Oh, I can forgive
God His anger, though it destroyed nations; but I cannot forgive Him His
peace."

Sunday answered not a word, but very slowly he turned his face of stone
upon Syme as if asking a question.

"No," said Syme, "I do not feel fierce like that. I am grateful to you,
not only for wine and hospitality here, but for many a fine scamper and
free fight. But I should like to know. My soul and heart are as happy
and quiet here as this old garden, but my reason is still crying out. I
should like to know."

Sunday looked at Ratcliffe, whose clear voice said--

"It seems so silly that you should have been on both sides and fought
yourself."

Bull said--

"I understand nothing, but I am happy. In fact, I am going to sleep."

"I am not happy," said the Professor with his head in his hands,
"because I do not understand. You let me stray a little too near to
hell."

And then Gogol said, with the absolute simplicity of a child--

"I wish I knew why I was hurt so much."

Still Sunday said nothing, but only sat with his mighty chin upon his
hand, and gazed at the distance. Then at last he said--

"I have heard your complaints in order. And here, I think, comes another
to complain, and we will hear him also."

The falling fire in the great cresset threw a last long gleam, like a
bar of burning gold, across the dim grass. Against this fiery band was
outlined in utter black the advancing legs of a black-clad figure. He
seemed to have a fine close suit with knee-breeches such as that which
was worn by the servants of the house, only that it was not blue, but of
this absolute sable. He had, like the servants, a kind of sword by his
side. It was only when he had come quite close to the crescent of
the seven and flung up his face to look at them, that Syme saw, with
thunder-struck clearness, that the face was the broad, almost ape-like
face of his old friend Gregory, with its rank red hair and its insulting
smile.

"Gregory!" gasped Syme, half-rising from his seat. "Why, this is the
real anarchist!"

"Yes," said Gregory, with a great and dangerous restraint, "I am the
real anarchist."

"'Now there was a day,'" murmured Bull, who seemed really to have fallen
asleep, "'when the sons of God came to present themselves before the
Lord, and Satan came also among them.'"

"You are right," said Gregory, and gazed all round. "I am a destroyer. I
would destroy the world if I could."

A sense of a pathos far under the earth stirred up in Syme, and he spoke
brokenly and without sequence.

"Oh, most unhappy man," he cried, "try to be happy! You have red hair
like your sister."

"My red hair, like red flames, shall burn up the world," said Gregory.
"I thought I hated everything more than common men can hate anything;
but I find that I do not hate everything so much as I hate you!"

"I never hated you," said Syme very sadly.

Then out of this unintelligible creature the last thunders broke.

"You!" he cried. "You never hated because you never lived. I know what
you are all of you, from first to last--you are the people in power! You
are the police--the great fat, smiling men in blue and buttons! You are
the Law, and you have never been broken. But is there a free soul
alive that does not long to break you, only because you have never been
broken? so that he might have his cart ready to carry off the shot;
and also the accounts we have had of the mighty mass of metal collected
there and sold at New York, &c. It seems, however, that the _iron
mine_ is not yet exhausted, for certain persons with a diving machine
have raised no less than 11,209 lbs. of shot, which was thrown
overboard from the _Pactolus_, when she was in such a hurry to get
away from the two guns of Stonington! They have also picked up a
quantity of copper.Oh, I could forgive you everything, you that rule all mankind,
if I could feel for once that you had suffered for one hour a real agony
such as I--"

Syme sprang to his feet, shaking from head to foot.

"I see everything," he cried, "everything that there is. Why does each
thing on the earth war against each other thing? Why does each small
thing in the world have to fight against the world itself? Why does a
fly have to fight the whole universe? Why does a dandelion have to fight
the whole universe? For the same reason that I had to be alone in the
dreadful Council of the Days. So that each thing that obeys law may have
the glory and isolation of the anarchist. So that each man fighting for
order may be as brave and good a man as the dynamiter. Here are glimpses
of what the youth was to be, of what the man who long outlived him
became. Here is the dignity which commands reverence,--a dignity
which, with all Ralph Waldo Emerson's sweetness of manner and
expression, rose almost to majesty in his serene presence."It is not true that we have never been broken. We have been broken
upon the wheel. It is not true that we have never descended from
these thrones. We have descended into hell. We were complaining of
unforgettable miseries even at the very moment when this man entered
insolently to accuse us of happiness. I repel the slander; we have not
been happy. I can answer for every one of the great guards of Law whom
he has accused. At least--"

He had turned his eyes so as to see suddenly the great face of Sunday,
which wore a strange smile.

"Have you," he cried in a dreadful voice, "have you ever suffered?"

As he gazed, the great face grew to an awful size, grew larger than the
colossal mask of Memnon, which had made him scream as a child. B. M.
brig _Borer_, landed two hundred men at Pettipaug, (Saybrook,) in
barges and launches, on the 8th of April, 1814, and destroyed upwards
of twenty sail of vessels, without meeting any opposition (until
after they had re-embarked,) and without the loss of a man."