There was no bishop, no duchess, no man-cook, at the wedding-party
given on the occasion by Mrs Kelly; nevertheless, it was, in its way,
quite as grand an affair as that given by the countess. The widow
opened her heart, and opened her house. Her great enemy, Barry Lynch,
was gone--clean beaten out of the field--thoroughly vanquished; as far
as Ireland was concerned, annihilated; and therefore, any one else in
the three counties was welcome to share her hospitality. Oh, the excess
of delight the widow experienced in speaking of Barry to one of her
gossips, as the "poor misfortunate crature!" Daly, the attorney, was
especially invited, and he came. Moylan also was asked, but he stayed
away. Doctor Colligan was there, in great feather; had it not been for
him, there would probably have been no wedding at all. It would have
been a great thing if Lord Ballindine could have been got to grace
the party, though only for ten minutes; but he was at that time in
Switzerland with his own bride, so he could not possibly do so.

"Well, ma'am," said Mrs Costelloe, the grocer's wife, from Tuam, an
old friend of the widow, who had got into a corner with her to have a
little chat, and drink half-a-pint of porter before the ceremony,--"and
I'm shure I wish you joy of the marriage. Faux, I'm tould it's nigh to
five hundred a-year, Miss Anty has, may God bless and incrase it! Well,
Martin has his own luck; but he desarves it, he desarves it."

"I don't know so much about luck thin, Mrs Costelloe," said the widow,
who still professed to think that her son gave quite as much as he got,
in marrying Anty Lynch; "I don't know so much about luck: Martin was
very well as he was; his poor father didn't lave him that way that he
need be looking to a wife for mains, the Lord be praised."

"And that's thrue, too, Mrs Kelly," said the other; "but Miss Anty's
fortune ain't a bad step to a young man, neither. Why, there won't
be a young gintleman within tin--no, not within forty miles, more
respectable than Martin Kelly; that is, regarding mains."

"And you needn't stop there, Ma'am, neither; you may say the very same
regarding characther, too--and family, too, glory be to the Virgin. I'd
like to know where some of their ancesthers wor, when the Kellys of
ould wor ruling the whole counthry?"

"Thrue for you, my dear; I'd like to know, indeed: there's nothing,
afther all, like blood, and a good characther. But is it thrue, Mrs
Kelly, that Martin will live up in the big house yonder?"

"Where should a man live thin, Mrs Costelloe, when he gets married, but
jist in his own house? Why for should he not live there?"

"That's thrue agin, to be shure: but yet, only to think Martin--living
in ould Sim Lynch's big house! I wondther what ould Sim would say,
hisself, av he could only come back and see it!"

"I'll tell you what he'd say thin, av he tould the thruth; he'd say
there was an honest man living there, which wor niver the case as long
as any of his own breed was in it--barring Anty, I main; she's honest
and thrue, the Lord be good to her, the poor thing. But the porter's
not to your liking, Mrs Costelloe--you're not tasting it at all this
morning."

