It is doubtless a great comfort to a person to know exactly how to feel
and what to say in every new contingency, but whether the zest of life is
not dulled by this ability is a grave question, for it leaves no room for
surprise and little for emotion. O ye belles of Newport and of Bar
Harbor, in your correct and conventional agreement of what is proper and
agreeable, are you wasting your sweet lives by rule? Is your compact,
graceful, orderly society liable to be monotonous in its gay repetition
of the same thing week after week? Is there nothing outside of that
envied circle which you make so brilliant? Is the Atlantic shore the only
coast where beauty may lounge and spread its net of enchantment? The
Atlantic shore and Europe? Perhaps on the Pacific you might come back to
your original selves, and find again that freedom and that charm of
individuality that are so attractive. Some sparkling summer morning, if
you chanced to drive four-in-hand along the broad beach at Santa Barbara,
inhaling, the spicy breeze from the Sandwich Islands, along the curved
shore where the blue of the sea and the purple of the mountains remind
you of the Sorrentine promontory, and then dashed away into the canon of
Montecito, among the vineyards and orange orchards and live-oaks and
palms, in vales and hills all ablaze with roses and flowers of the garden
and the hothouse, which bloom the year round in the gracious sea-air,
would you not, we wonder, come to yourselves in the sense of a new life
where it is good form to be enthusiastic and not disgraceful to be
surprised? It is a far cry from Newport to Santa Barbara, and a whole
world of new sensations lies on the way, experiences for which you will
have no formula of experience. To take the journey is perhaps too heroic
treatment for the disease of conformity--the sort of malaria of our
exclusive civilization.

An hypothesis of the processes involved must be indicated. It is not
enough to reply, in general, that the rudimentary human mind is illogical
and confused. That is granted; but there must have been a method in its
madness. What that method was (from my point of view) I have shown, and
it must be as easy for opponents to set forth what, from their point
of view, the method was.

We are here concerned with what, since the time of the earliest Greek
philosophers, has been the _crux_ of mythology: why are infamous myths
told about 'the Father of gods and men'? We can easily explain the
nature of the myths. They are the natural flowers of savage fancy and
humour.
But wherefore do they crystallise round Zeus? I have, at least, shown
some probable processes in the evolution.

Where criticism has not disputed the facts of the moral attributes, now
attached to, say, an Australian Being, it has accounted for them by a
supposed process of borrowing from missionaries and other Europeans.
In this book I deal with that hypothesis as urged by Sir A.B. Ellis, in
West Africa (chapter xiii.). I need not have taken the trouble, as
this distinguished writer had already, in a work which I overlooked,
formally withdrawn, as regards Africa, his theory of 'loan-gods.' Miss
Kingsley, too, is no believer in the borrowing hypothesis for West
Africa, in regard, that is, to the highest divine conception. I
was, when I wrote, unaware that, especially as concerns America and
Australia, Mr. Tylor had recently advocated the theory of borrowing
('Journal of Anthrop.

Institute,' vol. xxi.). To Mr. Tylor's arguments, when I read them,
I replied in the 'Nineteenth Century,' January 1899: 'Are Savage Gods
Borrowed from Missionaries?' I do not here repeat my arguments, but
await the publication of Mr. Tylor's 'Gifford Lectures,' in which his
hypothesis may be reinforced, and may win my adhesion.

It may here be said, however, that if the Australian higher religious
ideas are of recent and missionary origin, they would necessarily be
known to the native women, from whom, in fact, they are absolutely
concealed by the men, under penalty of death.

Again, if the Son, or Sons, of Australian chief Beings resemble part
of the Christian dogma, they much more closely resemble the Apollo and
Hermes of Greece.[4] But nobody will say that the Australians borrowed
them from Greek mythology!

In chapter xiv., owing to a bibliographical error of my own, I have done
injustice to Mr. Tylor, by supposing him to have overlooked Strachey's
account of the Virginian god Ahone. He did not overlook Ahone, but mistrusted
Strachey. In an excursus on Ahone, in the new edition of 'Myth, Ritual,
and Religion,' I have tried my best to elucidate the bibliography and
other aspects of Strachey's account, which I cannot regard as baseless.
Mr.

Tylor's opinion is, doubtless, different, and may prove more
persuasive.

As to Australia, Mr. Howitt, our best authority, continues to disbelieve
in the theory of borrowing.

I have to withdraw in chapters x. xi. the statement that 'Darumulun never
died at all.' Mr. Hartland has corrected me, and pointed out that, among
the Wiraijuri, a myth represents him as having been destroyed, for his
offences, by Baiame.

In that tribe, however, Darumulun is not the highest, but a subordinate
Being. Mr. Hartland has also collected a few myths in which Australian
Supreme Beings _do_ (contrary to my statement) 'set the example of
sinning.' Nothing can surprise me less, and I only wonder that, in so
savage a race, the examples, hitherto collected, are so rare, and so
easily to be accounted for on the theory of processes of crystallisation
of myths already suggested.

As to a remark in Appendix B, Mr. Podmore takes a distinction. I quote his
remark, 'the phenomena described are quite inexplicable by ordinary
mechanical means,' and I contrast this, as illogical, with his opinion
that a girl 'may have been directly responsible for all that took
place.'

Mr. Podmore replies that what was 'described' is not necessarily identical
with what _occurred_. Strictly speaking, he is right; but the evidence
was copious, was given by many witnesses, and (as offered by me) was
in part _contemporary_ (being derived from the local newspapers), so
that here Mr.
Podmore's theory of illusions of memory on a large scale, developed
in the five weeks which elapsed before he examined the spectators,
is out of court. The evidence was of contemporary published
record.
The handling of fire by Home is accounted for by Mr. Podmore, in
the same chapter, as the result of Home's use of a 'non-conducting
substance.' Asked, 'what substance?' he answered, 'asbestos.' Sir
William Crookes, again repeating his account of the performance
which he witnessed, says, 'Home took up a lump of red-hot charcoal
about twice the size of an egg into his hand, on which certainly
no asbestos was visible. He blew into his hands, and the flames
could be seen coming out between his fingers, and he carried the
charcoal round the roomWhat more natural,
considering the evidence that we move in spirals, if not in circles, that
the signs of the anniversary of one of the most marked periods in history
should be shown in feminine apparel? It is woman's way of hinting what is
in the air, the spirit that is abroad in the world. It will be remembered
that women took a prominent part in the destruction of the Bastile,
helping, indeed, to tear down that odious structure with their own hands,
the fall of which, it is well known, brought in the classic Greek and
republican simplicity, the subtle meaning of the change being expressed
in French gowns. Naturally there was a reaction from all this towards
aristocratic privileges and exclusiveness, which went on for many years,
until in France monarchy and empire followed the significant leadership
of the French modistes. So strong was this that it passed to other
countries, and in England the impulse outlasted even the Reform Bill, and
skirts grew more and more bulbous, until it did not need more than three
or four women to make a good-sized assembly. This was not the result of,
a whim about clothes, but a subtle recognition of a spirit of
exclusiveness and defense abroad in the world. Each woman became her own
Bastile. Men surrounded it and thundered against it without the least
effect. It seemed as permanent as the Pyramids. At every male attack it
expanded, and became more aggressive and took up more room. Women have
such an exquisite sense of things--just as they have now in regard to big
obstructive hats in the theatres. They know that most of the plays are
inferior and some of them are immoral, and they attend the theatres with
head-dresses that will prevent as many people as possible from seeing the
stage and being corrupted by anything that takes place on it. They object
to the men seeing some of the women who are now on the stage. It
happened, as to the private Bastiles, that the women at last recognized a
change in the sociological and political atmosphere of the world, and
without consulting any men of affairs or caring for their opinion, down
went the Bastiles. When women attacked them, in obedience to their
political instincts, they collapsed like punctured balloons. Natural
woman was measurably (that is, a capacity of being measured) restored to
the world. And we all remember the great political revolutionary
movements of 1848.

Now France is still the arbiter of the modes. Say what we may about
Berlin, copy their fashion plates as we will, or about London, or New
York, or Tokio, it is indisputable that the woman in any company who has
on a Paris gown--the expression is odious, but there is no other that in
these days would be comprehended--"takes the cake." It is not that the
women care for this as a mere matter of apparel. But they are sensitive
to the political atmosphere, to the philosophical significance that it
has to great impending changes. We are approaching the centenary of the
fall of the Bastile. The French have no Bastile to lay low, nor, indeed,
any Tuileries to burn up; but perhaps they might get a good way ahead by
demolishing Notre Dame and reducing most of Paris to ashes. Apparently
they are on the eve of doing something. The women of the world may not
know what it is, but they feel the approaching recurrence of a period.
Their movements are not yet decisive. It is as yet only tentatively that
they adopt the mode of the Directoire. It is yet uncertain--a sort of
Boulangerism in dress. But if we watch it carefully we shall be able to
predict with some assurance the drift in Paris. The Directoire dress
points to another period of republican simplicity, anarchy, and the rule
of a popular despot.

It is a great pity, in view of this valuable instinct in women and the
prophetic significance of dress, that women in the United States do not
exercise their gifts with regard to their own country. We should then
know at any given time whether we are drifting into Blaineism, or
Clevelandism, or centralization, or free-trade, or extreme protection, or
rule by corporations. We boast greatly of our smartness. It is time we
were up and dressed to prove it.


THE MYSTERY OF THE SEX

There appears to be a great quantity of conceit around, especially
concerning women. The statement was recently set afloat that a well-known
lady had admitted that George Meredith understands women better than any
writer who has preceded him. This may be true, and it may be a wily
statement to again throw men off the track; at any rate it contains the
old assumption of a mystery, practically insoluble, about the gentler
sex. The populace investigated more than did the wise and learned.

Hume has an alternative definition of a miracle--'a miracle is a transgression
of a law of nature by a particular volition of the Deity, or by
the interposition of some invisible agent.'Have women, conscious
of inferior strength, woven this notion of mystery about themselves as a
defense, or have men simply idealized them for fictitious purposes? To
recur to the case cited, is there any evidence that Mr. Meredith
understands human nature--as exhibited in women any better than human
nature--in men, or is more consistent in the production of one than of
the other? For a long discussion between myself and Mr. Sidney Hartland,
involving minute detail, I may refer the reader to _Folk-Lore_, the last
number of 1898 and the first of 1899, and to the Introduction to the
new edition of my 'Myth, Ritual, and Religion' (1899).

Where relatively high moral attributes are assigned to a Being, I have
called the result 'Religion;' where the same Being acts like Zeus in Greek
fable, plays silly or obscene tricks, is lustful and false, I have
spoken of 'Myth.'[3] These distinctions of Myth and Religion may be,
and indeed are, called arbitrary. The whole complex set of statements
about the Being, good or bad, sublime or silly, are equally Myths,
it may be urged.There is no evidence that the ancient
Egyptian woman was more difficult to comprehend than the Egyptian man.
They were both doubtless wily as highly civilized people are apt to be;
the "serpent of old Nile" was in them both. Is it in fact till we come to
mediaeval times, and the chivalric age, that women are set up as being
more incomprehensible than men? That is, less logical, more whimsical,
more uncertain in their mental processes? The play-writers and essayists
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries "worked" this notion
continually. They always took an investigating and speculating attitude
towards women, that fostered the conceit of their separateness and veiled
personality. Every woman was supposed to be playing a part behind a mask.
Montaigne is always investigating woman as a mystery. Jevons has
pointed out that, before you can hail a man as a god, you must have the
idea of God. The murder of Captain Cook notoriously resulted from a
scientific experiment in theology. 'If he is a god, he cannot be killed.'

And he tells this story:

