"Yes.  Your salary will be high--of course-for you are representing me.
Later you will earn increases of it, and will get them.  You will need a
small army of assistants; choose them yourself--and carefully.  Take no
man for friendship's sake; but, all things being equal, take the man you
know, take your friend, in preference to the stranger."  After some
further talk under this head, the Commodore said:

"Good-bye, my boy, and thank Alf for me, for sending you to me."

When Ed reached Memphis he rushed down to the wharf in a fever to tell
his great news and thank the boys over and over again for thinking to
give him the letter to Mr. Vanderbilt.  It happened to be one of those
idle times.  Blazing hot noonday, and no sign of life on the wharf.  But
as Ed threaded his way among the freight piles, he saw a white linen
figure stretched in slumber upon a pile of grain-sacks under an awning,
and said to himself, "That's one of them," and hastened his step; next,
he said, "It's Charley--it's Fairchild good"; and the next moment laid an
affectionate hand on the sleeper's shoulder.  The eyes opened lazily,
took one glance, the face blanched, the form whirled itself from the
sack-pile, and in an instant Ed was alone and Fairchild was flying for
the wharf-boat like the wind!

The following passage from the _Annales Fuldensis_, A. 852., will strengthen
this supposition:--"Inde transiens per Angros, _Harudos_, Suabos, et
Hosingos ... Thuringiam ingreditur."
Mr. Kemble[2], with his wonted acumen, has not failed to perceive that
our _Coritavi_ derived their name in the same manner; but his derivation
of the word from Hor, _lutum_, Horilit, _lutosus_, is singularly at
issue with Herr Leo's, who derives it from the Bohemian Hora, a mountain,
Horet a mountaineer, and he places the _Horiti_ in the Ober Lanbitz and
part of the Silesian mountains.

Schaffarik again, says that _Mægtha Land_ is, according to its
proper signification, unknown; but that as Adam of Bremen places
Amazons on the Baltic coast, probably from mistaking of the
_Mazovians_?

it is possible that _Mægthaland_ has thus arisen.

In 1822 Dahlmann (_Forschungen auf dem Gebiete der Geschichte_, t.
i. 422.) gave a German version of King Alfred's narration, where
the passage is also correctly translated; but as regards the
illustration of the names of the people of Sclavonic race, much yet
remains to be done.

It is to be hoped that some competent northern scholar among us may
still remove, what I must consider to be a national reproach--the
want of a correct and well illustrated edition of the _Hormesta_,
or at any rate of this singularly interesting and valuable portion
of it.

S.W. SINGER.

Feb. 21. 1850.

[Footnote 1: "Aber _Welitabi_, die in Germania sizzent, tie wir
_Wilze_ heizen, die ni scáment sih niche ze chedenne, daz sih iro
parentes mit mêrem réhte ézen súlin danne die wurme."

Albinus, in his _Meissnische Chronicle_, says they had their name from
their _wolfish_ nature.]

[Footnote 2: _The Saxons in England_, vol. i. p. 9. not

e
And
he crawled out and came dripping and draining to shake hands.  First one
and then another of the conspirators showed up cautiously--armed to the
teeth--took in the amicable situation, then ventured warily forward and
joined the love-feast.

And to Ed's eager inquiry as to what made them act as they had been
acting, they answered evasively, and pretended that they had put it up as
a joke, to see what he would do.  It was the best explanation they could
invent at such short notice.  And each said to himself, "He never
delivered that letter, and the joke is on us, if he only knew it or we
were dull enough to come out and tell."

Then, of course, they wanted to know all about the trip; and he said--

"Come right up on the boiler deck and order the drinks it's my treat.
I'm going to tell you all about it.  And to-night it's my treat again
--and we'll have oysters and a time!"

When the drinks were brought and cigars lighted, Ed said:

"Well, when, I delivered the letter to Mr. Vanderbilt----"

"Great Scott!"

"Gracious, how you scared me.  What's the matter?"

"Oh--er--nothing.  Nothing--it was a tack in the chair-seat," said one.

"But you all said it.  However, no matter.  When I delivered the
letter----"

"Did you deliver it?"  And they looked at each other as people might who
thought that maybe they were dreaming.

Then they settled to listening; and as the story deepened and its marvels
grew, the amazement of it made them dumb, and the interest of it took
their breath.  They hardly uttered a whisper during two hours, but sat
like petrifactions and drank in the immortal romance.  At last the tale
was ended, and Ed said--

"And it's all owing to you, boys, and you'll never find me ungrateful
--bless your hearts, the best friends a fellow ever had!  You'll all have
places; I want every one of you.  I know you--I know you 'by the back,'
as the gamblers say.  You're jokers, and all that, but you're sterling,
with the hallmark on.  And Charley Fairchild, you shall be my first
assistant and right hand, because of your first-class ability, and
because you got me the letter, and for your father's sake who wrote it
for me, and to please Mr. Vanderbilt, who said it would!  And here's to
that great man--drink hearty!"

Yes, when the Moment comes, the Man appears--even if he is a thousand
miles away, and has to be discovered by a practical joke.


CHAPTER XXIX.

When people do not respect us we are sharply offended; yet deep down in
his private heart no man much respects himself.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

I see no emendation for this but the _vardits own_ to mean, "the party who
has the verdict in his favour," and the speech to be a question. The
King tries to persuade himself that there is, _ipso facto_, no
room for forgiveness.Tasmania was a convict-dump, in old times;
this has been indicated in the account of the Conciliator, where
reference is made to vain attempts of desperate convicts to win to
permanent freedom, after escaping from Macquarrie Harbor and the "Gates
of Hell." In the early days Tasmania had a great population of convicts,
of both sexes and all ages, and a bitter hard life they had.  In one spot
there was a settlement of juvenile convicts--children--who had been sent
thither from their home and their friends on the other side of the globe
to expiate their "crimes."

In due course our ship entered the estuary called the Derwent, at whose
head stands Hobart, the capital of Tasmania.  The Derwent's shores
furnish scenery of an interesting sort.  The historian Laurie, whose
book, "The Story of Australasia," is just out, invoices its features with
considerable truth and intemperance: "The marvelous picturesqueness of
every point of view, combined with the clear balmy atmosphere and the
transparency of the ocean depths, must have delighted and deeply
impressed" the early explorers.  "If the rock-bound coasts, sullen,
defiant, and lowering, seemed uninviting, these were occasionally broken
into charmingly alluring coves floored with golden sand, clad with
evergreen shrubbery, and adorned with every variety of indigenous wattle,
she-oak, wild flower, and fern, from the delicately graceful
'maiden-hair' to the palm-like 'old man'; while the majestic gum-tree,
clean and smooth as the mast of 'some tall admiral' pierces the clear air
to the height of 230 feet or more."

It looked so to me.  "Coasting along Tasman's Peninsula, what a shock of
pleasant wonder must have struck the early mariner on suddenly sighting
Cape Pillar, with its cluster of black-ribbed basaltic columns rising to
a height of 900 feet, the hydra head wreathed in a turban of fleecy
cloud, the base lashed by jealous waves spouting angry fountains of
foam."

That is well enough, but I did not suppose those snags were 900 feet
high.  Still they were a very fine show.  They stood boldly out by
themselves, and made a fascinatingly odd spectacle.  But there was
nothing about their appearance to suggest the heads of a hydra.  They
looked like a row of lofty slabs with their upper ends tapered to the
shape of a carving-knife point; in fact, the early voyager, ignorant of
their great height, might have mistaken them for a rusty old rank of
piles that had sagged this way and that out of the perpendicular.

The Peninsula is lofty, rocky, and densely clothed with scrub, or brush,
or both.  It is joined to the main by a low neck.  At this junction was
formerly a convict station called Port Arthur--a place hard to escape
from.  Behind it was the wilderness of scrub, in which a fugitive would
soon starve; in front was the narrow neck, with a cordon of chained dogs
across it, and a line of lanterns, and a fence of living guards, armed.
The mountains of continents seem to correspond with what are called the
abysses of the sea; but now, the highest mountains do not rise to
20,000 feet.

It is true that they have wasted down and lessened by the action of the
elements; it may, therefore, be reasonably concluded, that the sea is not
beyond 30,000 feet in depth; but it is impossible to find the bottom
even at one-third of this depth, with our little instruments. The
greatest depth that has been tried to be measured, is that found in the
northern ocean by Lord Mulgrave; he heaved a very heavy sounding lead,
and gave out with it cable rope to the length of 4,680 feet, without
finding bottom.--_Blake's Encyclopedia_.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

* * * * *

CHARACTER OF CROMWELL.

(_From the Buccaneer.--By Mrs. S.C. Hall_.)

There are two things that to a marvellous degree bring people under
subjection--moral and corporeal fear. The most dissolute are held
in restraint by the influence of moral worth, and there are few
who would engage in a quarrel if they were certain that defeat or
death would be the consequence. Cromwell obtained, and we may add,
maintained his ascendancy over the people of England, by his earnest
and continually directed efforts towards these two important ends.
His court was a rare example of irreproachable conduct, from which
all debauchery and immorality were banished; while such was his
deep and intimate though mysterious acquaintance with every occurrence
throughout the commonwealth, its subjects had the certainty of
knowing that, sooner or later, whatever crimes they committed would
of a surety reach the ear of the protector.It was all out of keeping with the place, a sort of bringing of heaven
and hell together.

The remembrance of this paradise reminds me that it was at Hobart that we
struck the head of the procession of Junior Englands.  We were to
encounter other sections of it in New Zealand, presently, and others
later in Natal.  Wherever the exiled Englishman can find in his new home
resemblances to his old one, he is touched to the marrow of his being;
the love that is in his heart inspires his imagination, and these allied
forces transfigure those resemblances into authentic duplicates of the
revered originals.  It is beautiful, the feeling which works this
enchantment, and it compels one's homage; compels it, and also compels
one's assent--compels it always--even when, as happens sometimes, one
does not see the resemblances as clearly as does the exile who is
pointing them out.

