Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


ON THE STAIRS

by
Henry B. Fuller

Author of _Lines Long and Short_

BOSTON AND NEW YORK
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

The Riverside Press Cambridge

1918

------------------------------------------------------------------------

COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY HENRY B. FULLER

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

_Published March 1918_

------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHOR'S NOTE

This volume may seem less a Novel than a Sketch of a Novel or a Study
for a Novel. It might easily be amplified; but, like other recent work
of mine, it was written in the conviction that story-telling, whatever
form it take, can be done within limits narrower than those now
generally employed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


ON THE STAIRS

PART I

I


In the year 1873--

No, do not turn away from such an opening; I shall reach our own day
within a paragraph or so.

In the year 1873, then, Johnny McComas was perfectly willing to stand to
one side while Raymond Prince, surrounded by several of the fellows,
came down, in his own negligent and self-assured way, the main stairway
of Grant's Private Academy. For Johnny was newer there; Johnny was
younger in this world by a year or two, at an age when a year or two
makes a difference; and Johnny had but lately left behind what might be
described as a condition of servitude. So Johnny yielded the right of
way. He lowered his little snub nose by a few degrees, took some of the
gay smile out of his twinkling blue eyes, and waited with an upward
glance of friendly yet deferential sobriety until Raymond should have
passed.

"How are you, Johnny?" asked Raymond carelessly.

"I'm pretty well," replied Johnny, in all modesty.

In the year 1916--

Yes, I told you we should reach our own times presently.

In the year 1916, then, Raymond Prince was standing to one side, whether
willing or not, while John W. McComas, attended by several men who would
make their cares his own, came down the big marble stairway of the
Mid-Continent National Bank. Raymond, who had his cares too, would
gladly have been included in the company (or, rather, have replaced it
altogether); but he saw clearly that the time was not propitious.
McComas looked out through this swarm of lesser people, half-saw Prince
as in a mist, and gave him unsmilingly an abstracted half-bow.

"How do you do?" he mumbled impersonally.

"I'm pretty well," returned Prince, in a toneless voice. But he was far
from that, whether in mind or estate.

Between these two dates and these two incidents lies most of my story.
Be quite sure that I shall tell it in my own fashion.


II

First, however, this: I do not intend to magnify the Academy and its
stairway. The Academy did very well in its day, and it happened to be
within easy distance of James Prince's residence. If its big green doors
were flanked on one side by a grocery and on the other by a laundry, and
if its stairway was worn untidily by other feet than those of Dr.
Grant's boys, I shall simply point out that this was all in the day of
small things and that Fastidiousness was still upon her way. Should this
not satisfy you, I will state that, in the year following, the Academy
moved into other quarters: it lodged itself in a near-by private
residence whose owner, in real estate, sensed down-heeled Decadence
stealing that way a few years before any of his neighbors felt it, and
who made his shifts accordingly. If even this does not satisfy you, I
might sketch the entrance and stairway, somewhere in Massachusetts,
which are to know the footfalls of Lawrence D. McComas, aged ten,
grandson of Johnny; but such a step would perhaps take us too far afield
as well as slightly into the future. One does not pass a lad through
_that_ gateway on the spur of the moment.

Nor ought I to magnify, on the other hand, the marble stairway of the
Mid-Continent. This was not one of the town's greater banks; and the
stairway was at the disposal not only of the bank's clientèle, but at
that of sixteen tiers of tenants. However, it represented some advanced
architect's ideal of grandeur, and it served to make the bank's
president seem haughty when in truth he was only preoccupied.

As you may now surmise, this story, even at its highest, will not throw
millions on the habituated and indifferent air; nor, at its most
distended, will it push the pride of life too far. That has been done
already in sufficing measure by many others. Let us ride here an even
keel and keep well within rule and reason.

I am simply to tell you how, as the years moved on, John McComas climbed
the stairs of life from the bottom to the top--or so, at least, he was
commonly considered to have done; and how, through the same years,
Raymond Prince passed slowly and reluctantly along the same stairs from
top to bottom--or so his critics usually regarded his course. Nor
without some color of justice, I presume that they will pass each other
somewhere near the middle of my volume.


III

In 1873 James Prince was living in a small, choice residential district
near the Lake. Its choiceness was great, but was not duly guarded. The
very smallness of the neighborhood--a triumphant record of early
fortunes--put it upon a precarious basis: there was all too slight a
margin against encroachments. And, besides, the discovery came to be
made, some years later, that it was upon the wrong side of the river
altogether. But it held up well in 1873; and it continued to do so
through the eighties. Perhaps it was not until the middle or later
nineties that the real exodus began. Some of the early magnates had
died; some had evaporated financially; others had come to perceive,
either for themselves or through their children, that the road to social
consideration now ran another way. In due course a congeries of bulky
and grandiose edifices, built lavishly in the best taste of their own
day, remained to stare vacantly at the infrequent passer-by, or to
tremble before the imminent prospect of sinking to unworthy uses: odd,
old-time megatheriums stranded ineptly in their mortgage-mud. But
through the seventies the neighborhood held up its head and people came
from far to see it.

James Prince lived in one of these houses; and, around the corner, old
Jehiel Prince lingered on in another.

James was, of course, Raymond's father. Jehiel was his grandfather.
Raymond, when we take him up, was at the age of thirteen. And Johnny
McComas, if you care to know, was close on twelve.

Jehiel Prince was of remote New England origin, and had come West by way
of York State. He had been born somewhere between Utica and Rochester.
He put up his house on no basis of domestic sociability; it was designed
as a sort of monument to his personal success. He had not left the East
to be a failure, or to remain inconspicuous. His contractor--or his
architect, if one had been employed--had imagined a heavy, square affair
of dull-red brick, with brown-stone trimmings in heavy courses. Items: a
high basement, an undecorated mansard in slate; a big, clumsy pair of
doors, set in the middle of all, at the top of a heavily balustraded
flight of brown-stone steps; one vast window on the right of the doors
to light the "parlor," and another like it, on the left, to light the
"library": a façade reared before any allegiance to "periods," and in a
style best denominated local or indigenous. Jehiel was called a
capitalist and had a supplementary office in the high front basement;
and here he was fretting by himself, off and on, in 1873; and here he
continued to fret by himself, off and on, until 1880, when he fretted
himself from earth. He was an unhappy man, with no essential mastery of
life. His wife existed somewhere upstairs. They seldom spoke--indeed
seldom met--unless papers to shift the units of a perplexed estate were
up for consideration. Sometimes her relatives stole into the house to
see her and hoped, with fearfulness, not to meet her husband in some
passageway. He himself had plenty of relatives, by blood as well as by
marriage; too many of these were rascals, and they kept him busy. The
town, in the seventies, was at the adventurous, formative stage; almost
everybody was leaving the gravel walks of Probity to take a short cut
across the fair lawns of Success, and the social landscape was a good
deal cut up and disfigured.

"Poor relations!"--such was Jehiel's brief, scornful rating of the less
capable among these supernumeraries. A poor relation represented, to
him, the lowest form of animal life.

And when the chicane and intrigue of the more clever among them roused
his indignation he would exclaim: "They're putting me through the
smut-machine!"--an ignominious, exasperating treatment which he refused
to undergo without loud protests. These protests often reduced his wife
to trembling and to tears. At such times she might hide an elder
sister--one on the pursuit of some slight dole--in a small back bedroom,
far from sight and hearing.

An ugly house, inhabited by unhappy people. Perhaps I should brighten
things by bringing forward, just here, Elsie, Jehiel's beautiful
granddaughter. But he had no granddaughter. We must let Elsie pass.

Yet a fresh young shoot budding from a gnarled old trunk would afford a
piquant contrast--has done so hundreds of times. Jehiel Prince
undoubtedly _was_ gnarled and old and tough; a charming granddaughter to
cajole or wheedle him in the library, or to relax his indignant tension
over young men during their summer attendance on swing or hammock, would
have her uses. Yet a swing or a hammock would suggest, rather than the
bleak stateliness of Jehiel's urban environment, some fair, remote
domain with lawns and gardens; and Jehiel was far from possessing--or
from wanting to possess--a country-house. Elsie may be revived, if
necessary; but I can promise nothing. I rather think you have heard the
last of her.

James lived a few hundred yards from his father; his house bulked to
much the same effect. It was another symmetrical, indigenous box--in
stone, however, and not in brick. It had its mortgage. If this mortgage
was ever paid up, another came later--a mortgage which passed through
various renewals and which, as values were falling, was always renewed
for a lesser amount and was always demanding ready money to meet the
difference. In later years Raymond, with this formidable weight still
pressing upon him, received finally an offer of relief and liberation;
some prosperous upstart, with plans of his own, said he would chance the
property, mortgage and all, if paid a substantial bonus for doing so.

The premises included a stable. I mention the stable on account of
Johnny McComas. He lived in it. Downstairs, the landau and the two
horses, and another horse, and a buggy and phaeton, and sometimes a cow;
upstairs, Johnny and his father and mother. Johnny could look out
through a crumpled dimity curtain across the back yard and could see his
father freezing ice-cream on a Sunday forenoon on the back kitchen
porch; and he could also look into one of Raymond's windows on the floor
above.

Every so often he would beg:--

"Oh, father, let me do it,--please!"

Then he would lose the double prospect and get, instead, a plate of
vanilla with a tin spoon in it.

Raymond, who had no mastering passion for games, sat a good deal in his
room, sometimes at one of the side windows; occasionally at the back
one, in which case Johnny was quite welcome to look. Raymond had more
desks than one, and books everywhere on the walls between them. He had a
strong bent toward study, and was even beginning to dip into literary
composition. He studied when he might better have been at play, and he
kept up his diary under a student lamp into all hours of the night. He
had been reading lately about Paris, and he was piecing out the
elementary instruction of the Academy by getting together a collection
of French grammars and dictionaries. He had about decided that sometime
he would go to live on that island in the Seine near Notre Dame.

His father told him he was working too hard and too late--that it would
hurt his health and probably injure his eyes. His mother made no comment
and gave no advice. She was an invalid and thus had absorbing interests
of her own. Raymond kept on reading and writing.

Perhaps I should begin to sketch, just about here, his awakening regard
for some Gertrude or Adele, and his young rivalry with Johnny McComas
for her favor; telling how Johnny won over Raymond the privilege of
carrying her books to school, and how, in the end, he won Gertrude or
Adele herself from Raymond, and married her. Fiddlesticks! Please put
all such conventional procedures out of your head, and take what I am
prepared to give you. The school was a boys' school. There was no
Gertrude or Adele--as yet--any more than there was an Elsie. Raymond
kept to his books and indulged in no juvenile philanderings. Forget all
such foolish stereotypings of fancy.

As for the romance and the rivalry: when that came, it came with a vast
difference.


IV

Jehiel Prince was a capitalist. So was James: a capitalist, and the son
of a capitalist. They had some interests in common, and others apart.
There was a bank, and there were several large downtown business-blocks
whose tenants required a lot of bookkeeping, and there was a horse-car
line. There was a bus-line, too, between the railroad depots and the
hotels. James destined Raymond for the bank. He would hardly go to
college, but at seventeen or so would begin on the collection-register
or some such matter; later he might come to be a receiving-teller;
pretty soon he might rise to an apprehension of banking as a science
and have a line as an official in the _Bankers' Gazette_. Beyond that he
might go as far as he was able. James thought that, thus favored in
early years, the boy might go far.

But Raymond had just taken on Rome, and was finding it even more
interesting than Paris. The Academy's professor of ancient history began
to regard him as a prodigy. Then, somehow or other, Raymond got hold of
Gregorovius, with his "City of Rome in the Middle Ages"--though his
teacher did not know of this, and would have been sure to consider it an
undesirable deviation from the straight and necessary path; and
thenceforth the dozens of ordinary boys about him counted, I feel sure,
for less than ever.

Miss Edgeworth was very short, and carried herself very upright, with a
dapper figure and quick movements. She was the remains of a blonde, with
light eyes and hair; she was now gray, but wore a dark frisette,
whilst the gray hair showed through her cap behind. In conversation
we found her delightful. She was full of anecdotes about remarkable
people, and often spoke from her personal knowledge of them. Her memory,
too, was stored with valuable information, and her manner of narrating
was so animated that it was difficult to realise her age. In telling an
anecdote of Mirabeau, she stepped out before us, and, extending her arms,
spoke a sentence of his in the impassioned manner of a French orator, and
did it so admirably that it was quite thrilling.

* * * * *
Another American visitor, in the same year of 1836, the Rev. William B.
Sprogue, writes: [Footnote: _European Celebrities_, 1855

.]
* * * * *
The Edgeworth house is a fine spacious old mansion, with a splendid
lawn stretching before it, and everything to indicate opulence and
hereditary distinction.... Miss Edgeworth was the first person to meet
me; and she immediately introduced me to her mother, Mrs. Edgeworth,
her father's fourth wife, and her sister, Miss Honora Edgeworth.

Miss Edgeworth, in her personal appearance, was below middle size;
her face was exceedingly plain, though strongly indicative of
intellect; and though she seemed to possess great vigour of body
as well as of mind, it was, after all, the vigour of old age.

I supposed her to be about sixty-five, but I believe she was actually
on the wrong side of seventy. Her stepmother, Mrs.

Edgeworth, must have been, I think, rather younger than Maria, and was
not only a lady of high intelligence, but of great personal
attractions, and withal of a very serious turn of mind. As Miss
Edgeworth knew that my visit was to be limited to a single day, she
told me almost immediately that she wished to know in what way she
could contribute most to my gratification,--whether by remaining in the
house or walking over the grounds. She talked upon a great variety of
subjects, but there was nothing about her that had ever any affinity
to showing off or trying to talk well: she evidently did not know
how to talk otherwise.
Circumstances led her to speak of her experience with some of her
publishers. She mentioned that one of them had repeatedly
requested her to abate from the amount which he had engaged to pay her,
and that she had done so; but at length, after she had told him
explicitly to make proposals he would abide by, he wrote her a letter,
saying that he wished another abatement, and that he found that on the
whole he had lost by her works; and she then wrote him in reply,
that in consequence of the loss he had sustained, she would transfer her
publications to other hands. He afterwards earnestly requested that
she would excuse him for having thus written, and desired to retain the
works; but _she_ was inflexible, and _he_ very angry. Her former
publisher, she said, when he found himself dying, called for a
letter to her which was then unfinished, and requested that there
should be inserted a promise of ten or twelve hundred pounds more
than he had engaged to give her for one of her works; for it had
been so much more profitable to him than he expected, that he could
not die in peace till he had done justly by her.

And his heirs executed his will in accordance with this dying suggestion.

* * * * *
Home interests, home cares, and home sorrows were henceforth
increasingly to occupy Miss Edgeworth's life.

* * * * *
MARIA _to_ MISS RUXTON.

LOUGH GLYN, _Sept. 16, 1836_.

You may suppose how I felt the kindness of your note. You are now my
friend of longest standing and dearest parentage in this world; and in
this world, in which I have lived nearly three quarters of a century,
I have found nothing one quarter so well worth living for as old
friends.

We go to Moore Hall to-morrow.

We had here yesterday a party at dinner, all exquisite in their way;
Lord and Lady Dillon and Miss Dillon, Lord Oranmore and his son, Mr.

Brown, and two Miss Stricklands and their brothers; and coloured
fireworks in the evening: of all of which you shall hear more when
we meet.

Breakfast-bell ringing in my ears.

_March 5, 1837_.

The last accounts will have prepared you--more prepared, perhaps,
than I was, for hope had lived in spite of reason when life was
gone--your beloved and most amiable, angelic-tempered goddaughter
[Footnote: Her sister Sophy.

Mrs. Barry Fox, who died March 1.] is gone. She preserved her charming
mind quite clear all through, and had her mother with her, and the
comfort of knowing that her children were in the care of Mr.
Butler and Harriet.

_To_ MISS MARGARET RUXTON.

EDGEWORTHSTOWN, _Dec. 17, 1837_.

We are very anxious indeed to hear of Sophy: [Footnote: Miss Ruxton,
Miss Edgeworth's cousin and dearest friend, died at Black Castle,
December 30.] the last account Harriet gave was quite alarming. I see
Richard going about the house with his watch in his hand to feel
Sophy's pulse, and looking so anxious. How glad he must be that
he had returned home, and to Sophy what a comfort it must be, to have
the certainty of his affection, and to have the earliest companion of
her childhood and her manly friend beside her now!

I will go to her instantly if she desires it.

I long to hear that you have had, and that you like, the _Memoirs of
Mr.
Smedley_. I am sure that, when Sophy is well enough to hear or to read
anything, that book will be the very thing for her.

_To_ MRS. EDGEWORTH.

TRIM, _July 25, 1838_.

Mrs. Lazarus's [Footnote: Formerly Miss Mordecai.] death did indeed shock
and grieve me. But it is, as you say, the condition, the doom of
advancing, advanced age, to see friend after friend go; but in proportion
as it detaches one from life, it still more makes us value the
friends we have left. And continually, at every fresh blow, I really
_wonder_, and am thankful, most truly thankful, that I have so many,
so much left.

_To_ MISS MARGARET RUXTON.

_Oct. 10, 1838_.

I am sure, my dear Margaret, you were pleased at Honora's communication:

you wrote a most kind and pleasant letter of congratulation.[Footnote:
On the engagement of her sister Honora to Captain Beaufort, her
stepmother's brother.] She has hitherto been most fortunate in
pleasing all her friends, both as to the fact and as to the time and
manner of telling. Do you remember a conversation we had standing upon
the hearth in my room one night, between eleven and twelve, the witching
hour, and what you asked me about Captain Beaufort? The secret had
then been confided to me; and I hope you will do me the justice
to acknowledge that, open-hearted and open-mouthed as I am, I can keep a
secret WONDERFUL well.

* * * * *
_To_ MR. AND MRS. TICKNOR.

EDGEWORTHSTOWN, _Nov. 1, 1838_.

. . . My sister Honora is going to be married to a person every way suited
to her, and that is saying a great deal, as you, who most kindly and
justly appreciated her, will readily join with me in thinking.
The gentleman's name, Captain Beaufort, R.N., perhaps you may be
acquainted with, as he is in a public situation, and not unknown to
literary and scientific fame.

He is a naval officer (I hope you like this officer's name?). He made
some years ago a survey of the coast of Karamania, and wrote a small
volume on that survey, which has obtained for him a good reputation.
He has been for some years Hydrographer-Royal ... in one word, he is a
person publicly esteemed, and privately he is beloved and esteemed by all
who know him, most by those who love him best. He is and has been well
known to us ever since the present Mrs. Edgeworth's marriage with my
father; Captain Beaufort is Mrs. Edgeworth's youngest brother. As Mrs.
E. is Honora's _step_mother, you see that he is no relation whatever to
Honora. But the nearness of the connection has given us all the best means
of knowing him thoroughly. He was my dear father's most beloved
pupil and friend; by pupil I mean that being so much younger made
him look up to my father with reverence, and learn from him in
science and literature with delight.

Thus he has been long connected with all I love. He has been a widower
two years. He has three sons and four daughters.... The youngest
daughter, Emily, is a delightful child. Captain Beaufort lives in London,
11 Gloucester Place:
has a very comfortable house and sufficient fortune for all their
moderate wishes. Honora's fortune, which is ample, will give them
affluence.

My dear Mrs. Ticknor, I know you particularly liked Honora, and that
you will be interested in hearing all these particulars, though it seems
impertinent to detail them across the Atlantic to one who will, I fear,
never see any one of the persons I have mentioned. Yet affections such
as yours keep warm very long and at a great distance.

I feel that I have got into a snug little corner in both your hearts,
and that you will excuse a great deal from me, therefore I go on without
scruple drawing upon your sympathy, and you will not protest my
draft.

You saw how devoted Honora was to her aunt, Mrs. Mary Sneyd, whom
you liked so much; and you will easily imagine what a struggle
there has been in Honora's mind before she would consent to a
marriage with even such a man as Captain Beaufort, when it must
separate her from her aunt.

Captain Beaufort himself felt this so much that he would never have
pressed it.

He once thought that she might be prevailed upon to accompany them to
London, and to live with them. But Mrs. Mary Sneyd could not bear
to leave Mrs. Edgeworth, and this place which she has made her heart's
home. She decided Captain Beaufort and her niece to make her happy
by completing their union, and letting her feel that she did not prevent
the felicity of the two persons she loves best now in the world.
She remains with us.

The marriage is to take place next Tuesday or Thursday, and my Aunt
Mary will go to church with her niece and give her away.

I must tell you a little characteristic trait of this aunt, the least
selfish of all human beings. She has been practising getting up early
in the morning, which she has not done for two years--has never
got up for breakfast.

But she has trained herself to rising at the hour at which she must
rise on the wedding day, and has walked up and down her own room the
distance she must walk up and down the aisle of the church, to
ensure her being accustomed to the exertion, and able to accomplish
it easily.

This she did for a long time without our knowing it, till Honora found
it out.

Mrs. Mary Sneyd is quite well and in excellent spirits.

A younger sister of mine, Lucy, of whom you have heard us speak as
an invalid, who was at Clifton with that dear Sophy whom we have
lost, is now recovered, and has returned home to take Honora's place
with her Aunt Mary; and Aunt Mary likes to have her, and Lucy feels
this a great motive to her to overcome a number of nervous feelings
which formed part of her illness.

A regular course of occupations and duties, and feeling herself essential
to the happiness and the holding together of a family she so loves,
will be the best strengthening medicine for her.

She arrived at home last night. My sister Fanny and her husband, Lestock
Wilson, are with us. My sister has much improved in health: she
is now able to walk without pain, and bore her long journey and voyage
here wonderfully. I have always regretted, and always shall regret,
that this sister Fanny of mine had not the pleasure of becoming
acquainted with you. You really must revisit England. My sister Harriet
Butler, and Mr.
Butler, and the three dear little Foxes, are all round me at this
instant.

Barry Fox, their father, will be with us in a few days, and Captain
Beaufort returns from London on Monday. You see what a large and happy
family we are!

Mr. Butler will perform the happy, awful ceremony. How people who do not
love can even dare to marry, to approach the altar to pronounce
that solemn vow, I cannot conceive.

My thoughts are so engrossed by this subject that I absolutely cannot
tell you of anything else. You must tell me of everything that
interests you, else I shall not forgive myself for my egotism.

_To_ MISS MARGARET RUXTON.

EDGEWORTHSTOWN, _Nov. 8, 1838_.

You are the first person I write to upon returning from church after the
accomplishment of Honora and Captain Beaufort's marriage. Captain
Beaufort was affected more than any man I ever saw in the same
circumstances, yet in the most manly manner.

Aunt Mary went to church, as she had intended: they had both
received her blessing, kneeling as to a mother, the evening before
in her own room. Lestock and Barry were at the church door, to hand
her up the aisle. Old Mr. Keating was there, excellent, warm-hearted
man; and Mr. Butler performed the ceremony. The bride and bridegroom went
off from the church door, and are, I suppose, by this time, five
o'clock, at Trim.

_To_ MRS. EDGEWORTH, IN LONDON.

EDGEWORTHSTOWN, _Aug. 25, 1839_.

You will, I am sure, give me credit for having so well and pleasantly
performed our visits--Rosa, Lucy, and Francis with me--to the Pakenhams
and Pollards. Francis found Mr. Pollard very agreeable, and was
charmed with Mrs. Pollard's manners and conversation. We called
on Mrs.

Dease on our return, and walked in her garden, in which, in all my seventy
years, I never walked before, and saw huge bunches of crimson Indian
pinks, some of which are now in my garden, and well doing there.

In the morning, before we went to Kinturk, came a note from a gentleman
at the _White Hart_, Edgeworthstown, waiting for an answer: an
American medical professor, Dr. Gibson. It was very unlucky that I was
engaged to go out--irrevocably settled: however, I sat two hours and
a half with Dr.

Gibson, and very clever and agreeable I found him.

_To_ MRS. EDGEWORTH.

TRIM, _Nov. 1, 1840_.

I am _perfect_, dearest mother, so no more about it, and thank you from
my heart and every component part of my precious self for all the care
and successful care you have taken of me, your old petted nursling.
Thank you and Mrs. Mitchell for the potted meat luncheon, and Mr. Tuite
for his grapes,--Mary Anne and Charlotte had some. I was less tired
than I could have expected when I reached Trim, and there was Mr. Butler
on the steps ready to welcome us, and candles and firelight in the
drawing-room so cheerful. I slept like a sleeping top. Harriet read out
_Ferdinand and Isabella_, which, with all its chivalresque interest,
I do like very much. I am sure Rosa's [Footnote: Mrs.

Francis Edgeworth.] Spanish interest in the book will grow by that it feeds
upon, and I am very glad that she who has such fresh genuine pleasure in
literature should have this book, which is so beautifully written,
because it is so well felt by the author. Poor kind man. I will
write to Mr. Ticknor as soon as I come to Finis.
The birds got home well; but travelling, Harriet tells me, does not
agree with them, because they cannot stick upon their perch, and
it is a perpetual struggle between cling and jolt.

_Nov. 10_.
I enclose a note of Miss Crampton's and two notes of Lady Normanby's.
I never read more unaffected, affectionate, wife-like letters. How
gratifying they must be to Crampton, and it raises one's opinion
of Lord Normanby himself to find he can so attach a woman and a
wife.
The _History of a Flirt_, which Harriet is reading to me, is rather
entertaining but not interesting--a new and ingenious idea of a
flirt, who is not looking for establishment or match-making, and
therefore her disinterestedness charms all the lords and gentlemen
who have been used to match-making mothers and young-lady-hunters
for titles, and under favour of this disinterestedness her insolence
and faithlessness is passed over, while all the time she is in love
with a captain with "soft Venetian eyes," as Mrs. Thrale used to
say of Piozzi.

_Nov. 16_.
The ear-comforter or earwig is beautiful and comfortable, and is,
I hear, as becoming to me as was the Chancellor's wig to Francis
Forbes when he acted _Of Age To-morrow_. I am acting of age to-day,
and very gay, and perhaps may arrive at years of discretion at
eighty, if I live so long. I certainly wish to live till next month
that I may see you all at home again. You know the classic distich,
which my father pointed out and translated for me, which was over
the entrance door of the Cross Keys inn, near Beighterton:
If you are told you will die to-morrow you smile:
If you are told you will die a month hence you will sigh.
I do not know where this may be in a book, but I know it is in human
nature.

_To_ MR. TICKNOR.

TRIM, _Nov. 19, 1840_.
... I am afraid to invite you to come and see us again, lest you
should be disenchanted, and we should lose the delightful gratification
we enjoy in your glamour of friendship. Aunt Mary, however, is
really all you think and saw her; and in her good years still a
proof, as you describe her--and a remarkable proof--of the power
of mind over time, suffering, and infirmities, and an example of
Christian virtues, making old age lovely and interesting.
Your prayer, that she might have health and strength to enjoy the
gathering of friends round her has been granted.And, "Oh, well...!" was commonly the opening formula for the
response--meaning, in completed form, "Well, if we must, we must."

However, his parents were probably ready to meet with an open mind the
scorings of their young, sole critic, thinking that his urgency might
advance themselves no less than him. Well, in the autumn Johnny turned
up at the Academy with an equipment that included everything approved
and needed; and he was not long in letting us know that his father was
manager in the supply-yard of a large firm of contractors and builders.
His father had spent his earlier married years, it transpired, about the
grounds of a small-town "depot," and knew a good deal in regard to
lumber and cement.

To most of us fathers were fathers and businesses were
businesses--things to be accepted without comment or criticism. Our own
youthfulness, and the social tone of the day and region, discouraged
either. If I thought anything about it, I must have thought, as I think
still, that it was a manly and satisfying matter to come to grips with
the serviceable actualities of the building trades. Construction, in its
various phases, still seems to me a more useful and more tonic concern
than brokerage, for example, and similar forms of office life.

Johnny soon suggested that I go with him, some Saturday afternoon, to
the "yard." I asked Raymond to join us. Raymond had just come on Gothic
architecture and was studying its historical phases. He was picking up
points about the English cathedrals and was making drawings to
illustrate the development of buttresses and of window tracery. The yard
was only a mile and a half away and the three of us frolicked loosely
along the streets until we got there. Johnny's father was going about
the place in an admirable pair of new blue overalls, and carried a
thick, blunt pencil behind one ear. He showed an independent, breezy
manner that had not been very marked before. He was loud and clear and
authoritative, and kept a dozen or more stout fellows pretty busy. Once
an elderly man in a high silk hat passed through the yard on his way to
its little office. He stopped, and he and Johnny's father had some talk
together. "Yes, sir!" said Johnny's father, with considerable emphasis
and momentum. I enjoyed his "Yes, sir!" It was pleasant to find him so
hearty and so well-mannered. He seemed to have escaped from something
and to be glad of it. The man in the high hat hardly tried to stand up
against him. As he turned away he smiled in a curious fashion; and I
thought I heard him say to himself, as he moved back toward the door of
the shed that had the sign "Office" on it: "I wonder whether I'm going
to run him, or whether he's going to run me?"

Johnny was all eyes for a tall stack of lathing in bundles and for a
pile of sacks filled with hair from cows' hides, which last was to go
into plaster. Raymond looked at these objects of interest--and at
several others--with some degree of abstractedness. The English
cathedrals, as I was told later, had not been plastered. Raymond had
already developed some faculty for entertaining a concept freed from
clogging and qualifying detail; and this faculty grew as he grew. He
liked his ideal _net_; facts, practical facts, never had much charm for
him. I remember his once saying, when about twenty-three, that he should
have liked to be an architect, but that plumbing and speaking-tubes had
turned him away. If he could have drawn façades and stopped there, I
think he might have been quite happy and successful in the profession.

Johnny pulled a lath for each of us out of one of the bundles, and we
used them in our tour of the yard as alpenstocks. We found a glacier in
the shape of a mortar bed and were using the laths to sound its depths,
when Johnny's father appeared from round the corner of a lumber pile. He
clapped his hands with a loud report.

"Here! that won't do!" he said; and none of us thought it remotely
possible to withstand him. "Enough for one morning," he added, and he
waved both arms with a broad scoop to motion us toward the street gate.

"Oh, father, now!" began Johnny (with no smile at all), conscious of his
position as host.

"No more, to-day," said his father. "School six days a week would be
about my idea."

Raymond said nothing, but drew up his mouth to one side and himself led
us toward the street.


VII

I would not seem to stress either the saliency or the significance of
these incidents. I simply put them down, after many years, just as they
return to my memory. Memory is sporadic; memory is capricious; memory is
inconsequent, sometimes forgetting the large thing to record the little.
And memory may again prove itself all these, and more, if I attempt to
rescue from the past a children's party.

It was my young sister who "gave" it, as our expression was; parents in
the background, providing the funds and engineering the mechanism, were
not allowed greatly to count. The party was given for my sister's
visitor, a little girl from some small interior town whose name (whether
child's or town's) I have long since forgotten. Raymond was invited, of
course;--"though he isn't very nice to us," as my sister ruefully
observed; and some prompting toward fair play (as I vaguely termed it to
myself) made me suggest Johnny McComas. He came.

There must have been some twenty-five of us--all that our small house
would hold. There were more games than dances; and the games were
largely "kissing" games: "post-office," "clap-in, clap-out," "drop the
handkerchief," and such-like innocent infantilities. Some of us thought
ourselves too old for this sort of thing, and would willingly have left
it to the younger children; but the eager lady from next door, who was
"helping," insisted that we all take part. This is the place for the
Gertrudes and the Adeles, and they were there in good measure, be-bowed
and be-sashed and fluttering about (or romping about) flushed and happy.
And this would be pre-eminently the place for Elsie, Jehiel's
granddaughter and Raymond's cousin. Elsie would naturally be, in the
general scheme, my childhood sweetheart; later, my fiancée; and
ultimately my wife. Such a relationship would help me, of course, to
keep tab more easily on Raymond during the long course of his life. For
instance, at this very party I see her doing a polka with Johnny
McComas, while Raymond (who had been sent to dancing-school, but had
steadfastly refused to "learn") views Johnny with a mixture of envy and
contempt. A year or two later, I see Elsie seated in the twilight at the
head of her grandfather's grandiose front steps, surrounded by boys of
seventeen or eighteen, while Raymond, sent on some errand to his
grandfather's house, picks his way through the crowd to say to himself,
censoriously, in the vestibule: "Well, if I can't talk any better at
that age than they do...!" Yes, Elsie would undeniably have been an
aid; but she never existed, and we must dispense with her for once and
for all.

Raymond could always make himself difficult, and he usually did so at
parties. To be difficult was to be choice, and to be choice was to be
desirable. Therefore he got more of the kisses than he might have got
otherwise--many more, in fact, than he cared for. But on this occasion a
good part of his talent for making himself difficult was reserved until
refreshment time. Most of the boys and girls had paired instinctively to
make a prompt raid on the dining-room table, with Johnny McComas
unabashedly to the fore; but Raymond lingered behind. My mother
presently found him moping alone in the parlor, where he was looking
with an over-emphatic care at the pictures.

"Why, Raymond dear! Why aren't you out with the others? Don't you want
anything to eat?"

No; Raymond didn't want anything.

"But you do--of course you do. Come."

Then Raymond, thus urged and escorted,--and, above all,
individualized,--allowed himself to be led out to the refreshments; and,
to do him justice, he ate as much and as happily as any one else. Johnny
McComas, with his mouth full, and with Gertrudes and Adeles all around
him, welcomed him with the high sign of jovial _camaraderie_.

Yes, Johnny took his full share of the ice-cream and macaroons; he got
his full quota of letters from the "post-office"; the handkerchief was
dropped behind him every third or fourth time, and he always caught the
attentive little girl who was whisking away--if he wanted to. He even
took a manful part in the dancing.

"What a good schottische!" exclaimed one of the Adeles, as the
industrious lady from next door, after a final bang, withdrew her hands
from the keyboard. "And how well you dance!"

"Gee!" exclaimed Johnny, with his most open-faced smile; "is that what
you call it--a schottische? I never tried it before in my life!"

"Learn by doing"--such might have been the motto of the town in those
early, untutored days. And Johnny McComas emphatically made this motto
his own.


PART II

I


Raymond went into the bank; not in due course, but rather more than a
year later. After seeing some of his more advanced schoolfellows depart
for Eastern colleges, after indulging a year of desultory study at home,
and after passing a summer and autumn among the Wisconsin lakes, he was
formally claimed by Finance. There was no Franciscan ardor to clasp her
close, as others have clasped Poverty and Obedience. He began his
business career, as men have been recommended to begin their matrimonial
career, with a slight aversion. However, his aversion never brought him
any future good.

His year at home, so far as I could make out, was taken up largely with
æsthetics and music. He read the "Seven Lamps of Architecture" and they
lighted him along a road that led far, far from the constructional
practicalities of the yard where we had spent a Saturday forenoon, some
five years before. He had begun to collect books on the brickwork of
Piacenza and Cremona, and these too led him farther along the general
path of æstheticism. During our years at the Academy the town, after an
unprecedentedly thorough sweep by fire, had been rebuilding itself; and
on more than one Saturday forenoon of that period we had tramped
together through the devastated district, rejoicing in the restorative
activities on every hand and honestly admiring the fantasies and
ingenuities of the "architects" of the day. But Raymond had now emerged
from that innocent stage; summoning forth from some interior reservoir
of taste an inspirational code of his own, he condemned these crudities
and aberrations as severely as they probably deserved, and cultivated a
confident belief that somewhere or other he was to find things which
should square better with his likings and should respond more kindly to
his mounting sensibilities.

"Not going to cut us?" I once asked. "Just as we're picking up, too?"

But Raymond looked abstractedly into the distance and undertook no
definite reply. Possibly he had responded to Ruskin; more probably to
some divine young sense of truth and fitness such as forms the natural
endowment, by no means uncommon, of right-minded youth. Or it may be
that he had simply reached the "critical" age, when Idealism calls the
Daily Practicalities to its bar and delivers its harsh, imperious
judgments; when it puts the world, if but for a few brief months, "where
it belongs." His natural tendency toward generalization helped him
here--helped, perhaps, too much. He passed judgment not only on his
parents, whom he had been finding very unsatisfactory, and on most of
his associates (myself, for example, whenever I happened to speak an
appreciative word for his essentially admirable father), but on the
community as such. A filmy visitant from Elsewhere had grazed his
forehead and whispered in his ear that the town allotted to him by
destiny was crude, alike in its deficiencies and in its affirmations,
and that complete satisfaction for him lay altogether in another and
riper quarter.

Perhaps it was some such discontent as this that led him in the
direction of musical composition--or toward attempts at it. He had no
adequate preparation for it, nor, so far as I could perceive, any
justificatory call. He had once taken a few terms on the piano; and he
had on his shelves a few elementary works on harmony; and he had in his
fingertips a certain limited knack for improvisation; and he had once
sketched out, rather haltingly, a few simple songs. Yet, all the same,
another reservoir, one of uncertain depth and capacity, was opening up
for him at an age when opening-up was the continuing and dominating
feature of one's days--a muse was stirring the vibrant air about him;
and I gathered, after two or three certain visits to his house, that he
had embarked on some composition or other of an ambitious and
comprehensive nature: a cantata, possibly, or even some higher flight.
As he had never domesticated musical theory and musical notation in his
brain, most of his composing had to be carried on at the keyboard
itself. The big piano in the big open drawing-room resounded with his
strumming experiments in melody and harmony--sounds intelligible, often
enough, to no ears but his own, and not always agreeable to them. I am
sure he tried his parents' patience cruelly. His reiterated phrases and
harmonizings were audible throughout a good part of the house. They did
nothing toward relieving his mother's headaches, nothing toward raising
his father's hopes that, pretty soon, he would come to grips with the
elements of Loans and Discounts. Even the servants, setting the table,
now and again closed the dining-room door.

"Oh, Raymond, Raymond; _not_ to-day!" his mother would sometimes plead.

I presume that, during this period, the diary was still going on; and no
one with such a gift for writing will stop short at a diary. In fact,
Raymond tried his hand at a few short stories--still another muse was
fluttering about his temples. There were accommodations for fifty boys,
and the room is large enough for eighty. Each boy has a separate bed.
They are arranged in two tiers, as in a steamboat. The beds were all
neatly made, and looked quite comfortable. Many of these boys
have never slept in a bed except in this room. The remarks which they
make to each other, when comparing their beds, with their clean sheets
and pillow-cases, with the boxes, areas, and crannies where they
have been accustomed to sleep, are very amusing.

I am happy to know that there has been a constant improvement
among the boys. They grow more orderly, and are more easily restrained,
and some of them give promise of making useful men. They are
not allowed to use profane language, to fight, nor to smoke in the
rooms, and generally manifest much kindness of feeling toward each
other.

There was a table in the room, which interested me greatly. It was of
black-walnut. In the top there were one hundred and ten different holes,
large enough to admit a half-dollar. Each of them was numbered.

This was the bank in which Patrick had deposited his money. There
were one hundred and ten little divisions in the drawer, corresponding
with one hundred and ten openings in the top. The boys each have a
certain number for their own use, and if they choose, can safely secure
their day's earnings for a time of need.

The superintendent keeps the key of the drawer.

Several weeks ago, the boys voted not to take their money from the
bank till November, that they might then have the means of
purchasing warm clothes for the winter. I had quite a curiosity to
look into the bank, to see how much the boys had saved. In some
of the divisions there were only a few pennies, while in others there
were several dollars.

I never looked upon any bank with so much pleasure, as I did upon this
simple one of the news-boys. It was teaching them a lesson of
economy and forethought, which I trust they will never forget. When they
enjoy their comfortable coats and warm pantaloons in the cold weather
of winter, they cannot avoid remembering, that it was by taking care
of the pennies, that they were enabled so nicely to clothe
themselves.

The news-boys have never been taught the true value of money. They have
not hesitated to gamble it away, or to spend it for segars and tobacco,
and other unnecessary and hurtful things. They have been exceedingly
improvident and have had no idea of laying up any thing for the
future.

One evening, as the boys were gathered in their sitting-room, one of
them was leaning on the bank. He held up a quarter of a dollar
between his thumb and finger, and, looking at his companions, said,
"You know Simpson, the pawnbroker?" "Yes." "He is a friend in need,
but _here_ is a friend indeed!" and the bright silver dropped,
jingling, into his bank.

Those news-boys all of them possess more than ordinary intelligence
and energy of character.

"Every one of them," as a gentleman said, "is worth saving." They are
sure to make _men_, and to exert an influence in the world.

After my return from my visit to their rooms, I told some children
about the necessities of these news-boys, and how much they need
better clothing.

A little girl, whom I know, has determined to make a shirt for one of
them. I am sure it will be acceptable; for, frequently, when they first
go to the lodging-house, they are so filthy that something must be given
them to make them decent. Perhaps other children may like to do
something to benefit those needy ones, who have no father nor mother to
take care of them and provide for their wants.

PART II.

When the bank was opened, the first of November it was found to contain
seventy-nine dollars and eleven cents!

This sum of money had been saved in seven weeks, by twenty-four boys.
They were quite astonished at their own success. They learned the
lesson by personal experience, that if they took care of the
pennies, the shillings would take care of themselves.

Some of them had saved enough to buy a new suit of clothes, others enough
for pantaloons, and others for a cap or shoes. They were advised
not to spend their money hastily; but a few were too impatient to wait,
and the same evening they received it they went out to make their
purchases.

Others laid by their money till morning.

The news-boys found it was so much better for them to put their money in
the bank, than to spend it in gaming, or for cigars, or in other
useless ways, that they voted to close it again, not to be opened
till December.

During the month of November, nineteen boys saved sixty-three dollars and
forty-seven cents. One of them had put in thirteen dollars. He did not
spend it all for himself, but gave a part of it to his mother
to pay her rent.

The boys were delighted with their wealth.

"No hard times here!" they cried. "Money isn't tight with us.
There is plenty of it."
One of the boys purchased an entire suit of clothes; and when he
made his appearance among the others, in his nice blue jacket, with
bright buttons, his pantaloons to match, and his blue navy-cap, he was
greeted with cheers. One and another examined his wardrobe, and all
enjoyed his success. "Who are you? Who'd think this was Charley
----?

Is this a news-boy? Who'd believe this was a news-boy?" and various
other exclamations escaped from them. "Charley has done well this time."
Yes, Charley did well, and he will not soon forget the lesson he learned
that month. He knows more of the true use of money than ever before.

The first of December the boys voted to keep the bank closed till the
third of January.

They decided not to have it opened on the first, because there are so many
temptations to spend money that they feared, if they had it in their
pockets, they should part with it foolishly.

One of the news-boys has been recently run over by a stage. I inquired
about him, and learned that he is the very boy whom I met in a friend's
office, and my interest in whom led me first to visit the
lodging-house.

This is the third time he has narrowly escaped death.

The omnibus passed directly over his body. When he was taken up, his
companions thought him dying. He was conveyed immediately to the
hospital.

The boys at the lodging-house were saddened by Patrick's troubles.
They expected he would die. They recounted his excellencies of
character. His cheerfulness and ready wit were not forgotten. Patrick
is not a boy of many words, but when he speaks, it is to the purpose.

The boys called at the hospital to see him. The door-keeper said he never
knew a boy who had so many cousins!

The next day Patrick was better. It was found that he was not so
much injured as was at first supposed. There was great rejoicing in the
evening at the lodging-house. A heavy load had been lifted from their
hearts. Patrick would soon be among them again. They were cheerful
and full of life and spirits. "Patrick must be half made of India-rubber!"
they exclaimed, gleefully.

This sympathy with each other is one of the most beautiful traits
of their character, and shows a nature that may be nobly developed.

They cannot but learn much that is good in the hours spent in their
reading-room, as they listen to the instruction of those interested
in their welfare.

Many of them have already found good situations, and give promise of
becoming useful men.

They appreciate kindness and civility. "Mr. ---- spoke to me in the street,
when he was walking with another gentleman and _he shook hands
with me too_," said one of them triumphantly, as if he had risen in the
scale of being, and was more worthy of respect, in consequence of
the respect with which he had been treated. Few can estimate
the power of sympathy.

"Speak gently, kindly, to the poor; Let no harsh term be heard; They have
enough they must endure, Without an unkind word."
"I have never forgotten your words of kindness, when I was poor and
almost discouraged," wrote one lady to another, and no more will any
child of want forget the utterance of a warm, generous heart.

I should have told you, that besides the money the boys put in the bank,
they earn enough to pay for their lodging, six cents a night, and to
purchase their food, and, sometimes, various articles of clothing. They
are obliged to be very active, and to be up early in the morning.

They may be found in all parts of the city, crying their papers with loud,
piercing voices, and running at full speed from street to street,
stopping only to sell papers to any who may buy.

It would be well if they had some occupation which would expose them less
to bad company and unsteady habits; but a news-boy can be honest,
virtuous, and temperate, as well as any other boy,--if he will take
the right way to be.

[Illustration]

IDA'S DRESS.

At one time, when Mrs. Dudley was spending a few days in the city, she
went with a friend to call upon a poor woman whom she heard was in great
need. This woman had sent a daughter, about eight years old, to school
for one day, and then found that she could not spare her; she felt obliged
to keep her at home to take care of the baby.

Mrs. Carter--for by this name I shall call her--occupied a house back from
the street. The ladies ascended the steps leading to the first floor,
and inquired if she lived there. "She is in the basement," was
the answer. They descended into the area. It was neatly swept, and in
perfect order. "It must be a genteel woman who lives here," remarked Mrs.
Benton. They knocked. A voice bade them come in. They opened the door
and entered. Mrs. Carter was sewing by a table.

By her side stood Georgianna, her oldest child, plainly and neatly
dressed. At the other end of the table was a little girl about four
years old, whose name I forget, and in the rocking-chair before the stove
was a dark-haired babe, quietly sleeping.

The room was neat and tidy. There was a little fire in the stove, but not
enough to thoroughly warm the room.

The ladies inquired of Mrs. Carter in regard to her circumstances.

They learned that her husband left her last spring, and had gone she
knew not where.

He was a carpenter by trade, and could earn two dollars a day. She
had always done what she could with her needle, and had earned a few
dollars a month by binding shoes or doing other sewing. They had
lived very comfortably, renting good apartments for eight dollars a
month, and knew nothing of want or suffering.

Mrs. Carter was obliged to give up her pleasant rooms, to remove to the
basement. She has laboured industriously, whenever she can procure
work, to pay her rent, three dollars a month, and to provide food
for her children. She has known what it is to be both cold and hungry.
She has bought coal by the bushel, and has sometimes been without fire
in the dead of winter. Her family have lived principally upon bread and
water, and the little ones have cried for food when she had none to give
them.

Little Ida is too young to know her mother's sorrow. She is a babe of only
a few weeks old, and she sleeps as sweetly in that great rocking-chair
as any babe ever slept in a cradle.

She is warmly wrapped in a blanket, and does not suffer, although she
has scarce a change of dresses.

When Mrs.

Dudley returned to her happy home, she told her children about this
family, and particularly about the poor babe, who so increased her
mother's cares and labours, yet repaying it all by the wealth of
maternal love her coming had developed.

It was pleasing to see Georgianna lay her face so softly on the
infant's, and so gently rock her when her slumbers were disturbed.

Mrs. Dudley's children listened to her story with great interest, and
wished to do something for the family. Mary repaired some garments which
her mother gave her, and when this was done, she went to her drawer
and took out a small piece of calico, which had been given to her to
make her doll a dress. She asked her mother if there was enough to
make Ida a dress. Mrs. Dudley examined it, and told her there was.
So she cut it out for her daughter, and showed her how to make it.
This work occupied her several days, for Mary goes to school, and has
not much time for sewing. The dress looked very pretty when it was
completed. She had embroidered the tiny sleeves with a neat scollop,
and had taken great pains to make it strong and neatly.

The next time Mrs. Dudley went to the city, she took several small parcels
for Mrs. Carter, who was much pleased with them. None gratified her
more than the dress for the baby.

It will always be a pleasant recollection to Mary that she made the
heart of this suffering woman happy by sending a dress to her infant.

She learned the pleasure of giving, and of exerting herself to do
good to others.

If Mrs. Dudley had had the dress made by a seamstress, it would
have been equally useful to Mrs.

Carter; but Mary would have lost the reward which she now enjoys in the
consciousness of relieving the sufferings of the destitute. I hope Mary
will always be benevolent, and never grow "weary in well-doing."
[Illustration]

WHAT MADE WILLIE HAPPY.

Willie was looking at the slippers which his mother had wrought for
him, and admiring the freshness of the colours.

They were a Christmas present to him, and had afforded him much
pleasure.

"You were very happy the evening they were given to you," said his
mother.

"But no happier than I was last evening," he replied.

I will tell you what made him so happy on the evening to which he alluded.
At Christmas, two little books had been added to his library, and another
had been lent him by one of his companions. When he had read these
books, he was very desirous to get still another. He began to inquire
how he could earn money enough to buy it, for he thought he should like
to purchase it himself. He could think of nothing which could be done
in the house, by which he could replenish his purse; so his mother
told him, if he would control his temper for a week, she would get the
book for him. If he did get out of patience, and immediately checked
himself, he was to receive it.

Every evening Willie came to his mother, and told her how he had succeeded
through the day. She observed him very carefully, and she knew that he
really tried to conquer himself. She encouraged him in his efforts, and
Willie was very happy--happy because he was succeeding in correcting
what was wrong--and happy in the anticipation of the reward promised
him.

The last day of the week came, and passed away. Willie's father returned
from the city. He brought with him a parcel done up in soft white paper,
and tied with a small red and white twine. His mother opened it, and
there was the book for which she had sent.

She wrote Willie's name in it, with the day of the month, and then
wrote "A Reward of Merit."

She thought those few words would remind him of the way in which he
earned the book, and would encourage him to persevere in overcoming any
bad or sinful habit.

All these things together made Willie quite as happy as on "Merry Christmas."
It always makes people happy to endeavour to subdue what is wrong
in themselves,--such efforts being their own reward. The consciousness
of the approval of our heavenly Father must always occasion the truest
pleasure.

DO YOU INTEND TO BE A GENTLEMAN?

(A QUESTION FOR BOYS.)

As I sat at the table a few evenings since, a gentleman called. He
was invited to take a seat with us. As he had already supped, he
declined.
This person is a man of talent and education, but as I turned to look
at him, in the course of conversation, I observed a habit which so
disgusted me, that it was with an effort I could finish my tea.

This circumstance impressed on my mind the importance of forming
correct habits in boyhood.

"The child is father of the man," Wordsworth says in one of his poems.
The habits and character you form now will, in all probability,
be the habits and character you will retain when you are a man.

I suppose the individual to whom I have alluded was entirely
unconscious of doing any thing disagreeable.

If not, perhaps he did not consider it of much consequence. He may have
grown up with the opinion that little things are of small importance.

Now, that this is not always so, you may easily see if you drop a
spark of fire in a pile of shavings: the whole will be immediately
in flames, and will do as much injury as if it had been kindled by
a large coal.

Our happiness depends quite as much on little things as on great.
Small trials are as difficult to bear as any. People often lose their
patience when a dress is torn, or a pitcher broken, who would be
quiet and calm if some serious misfortune had befallen them.

I hope, boys, you intend to be gentlemen. I do not mean fops and
dandies, but true gentlemen. You have perhaps seen the remark made,
that "dress does not make the man, but after he is made, he looks better
dressed up." Neither do gentlemanly habits and manners make the man,
but they certainly improve him after he is made, and render
him agreeable and prepossessing.

A farmer, or a cabinet-maker, or a blacksmith, are no less gentlemen
because they are engaged in these useful and honourable employments,
than are judges, or merchants, or ministers. To be a gentleman is to be
a man of gentle manners; and who would not desire to be distinguished
for such a trait?

If you intend to be gentlemen, you must begin now, by always conducting,
under all circumstances, just as well as you know how.
Some of you, I suppose, have better advantages of society, and more
careful instruction at home, than others; but no boy of intelligence
need fail to be a gentleman if he tries.
A true gentleman is always courteous. He answers respectfully when
spoken to--no matter by whom. Do you remember the anecdote of General
Washington, who raised his hat and bowed politely to a coloured man
he met, who had previously saluted him with the usual civility of
the race? A friend with him expressed surprise. "Do you think,"
said he, "I would be less polite than a negro?" I hope, when you
are tempted to be uncivil to those whom you consider beneath you,
you will not forget the good example of the Father of his Country.
I suppose the secret of Washington's politeness and greatness was,
as his mother proudly said of him, that "George was always a good
boy!"
He was a gentleman--such a gentleman as I should be glad to believe
every boy who reads this book will one day be. If you would be
polite to all, you must cultivate kind feelings towards all. A
gentleman is not a rough man. He may have great energy and power
of character, as had Washington, but still he is a _gentle_-man.
GENEROUS NELLY; OR, THE WILLING MIND.
Nelly Wallace is about six years old. She has a pleasant, attractive
face. Her long hair curls in ringlets over her neck. She is one of
the neatest and most gentle children I ever saw, and gives her
mother but little trouble. Indeed, she is so orderly, and active,
that she is quite an assistance to her. She sings like a lark, and
is patient as a lamb. She is very generous, too.
Her father is obliged to live on a small salary.
Nelly is a favourite with her father's friends, and often receives
a present from them.
One day, she heard her mother say to her father that they needed
some particular article very much, but he told her he had not money
enough to purchase it. She quietly left the room, and went up
stairs.
Presently she returned, and placed a five-dollar gold-piece, which
had been given to her, in her mother's hand. "Please use my money,
mother," she said; "I should rather you would use it for what you
need, than keep it to buy something for myself."
At another time, her father was obliged to take a journey on
business.
Nelly brought forth her purse, and offered its contents to him to
defray his expenses. Dear child! she knew nothing about the cost
of travelling, nor the value of money. She thought her three-cent
pieces would be all he would need.
[Illustration: Nelly brought forth her purse.]
Paul, when exhorting the Corinthian church to liberality, says, "If
there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a
man hath, and not according to that he hath not." Nelly had a willing
mind, and her father was as much gratified by her thoughtful
consideration as he would have been if she had been able to furnish
him all that he needed. So our heavenly Father is pleased with his
children when they do what they can to provide for the wants of the
needy; and the smallest gift, offered in love, is not forgotten by
him.
You recollect that our Saviour, when he saw the rich men casting
their gifts into the treasury and the poor woman casting in her two
mites, said that she had cast in more than they all. They had given
of their abundance; it had cost them no self-denial--but she, of
her penury, had cast in all the living that she had. God looks not
only on the outward act, but at the heart. He sees the motives which
actuate us.
He saw Nelly's heart, and he approved her generosity.They did wonders, in the way of dressing, on their sixty or
seventy-five dollars a month. Raymond's own dressing, for some little
time past, had grown somewhat slack and careless. I did him the
injustice of supposing that he felt himself to be himself, and _hors
concours_ so far as the general body of clerklings was concerned; but he
had other reasons.

He had given up buying books and periodicals; no new volumes to be seen
in his room except works of travel (preferably guide-books) and grammars
and dictionaries of foreign languages. For all such works of general
uplift and inspiration as the intending tourist in Europe might expect
to profit by, he depended on circulating libraries or the shelves of
friends. I myself lent him a book of travels in the Dolomites, and
scarcely know, now, whether I did well or ill. Raymond, in short, was
silently, doggedly saving, with the intention of taking a trip--or of
making a sojourn--abroad.

The cleavage came in James Prince's front parlor, one Sunday afternoon,
and I happened to be present. A very few words sufficed. Raymond's
father had picked up a thick little book from the centre-table, the only
book in the room, and was looking back and forth between this work--an
Italian dictionary--and Raymond himself.

"What do you expect to get out of this?" he asked.

"I expect to learn some Italian," Raymond replied.

"Wouldn't French be more useful?"

"I know all the French I need."

"Where do you expect to use your Italian?"

"In Italy. I didn't go to college."

Impossible to depict the quality of Raymond's tone in speaking these
five words. There was no color, no emphasis, no seeming presentation of
a case. It was the cool, level statement of a fact; nor did he try to
make the fact too pertinent, too cogent. An hour-long oration would not
have been more effective. He had calmly taken off a lid and had
permitted a look within. His father saw--saw that whatever Raymond, by
plus or by minus, might be, he was no longer a boy.

"I know," said James Prince, slowly. He was looking past us both and was
opening and shutting the covers of the book unconsciously.

A day or two later, Raymond gave me the rest. His father had asked him
how much money he had. Out of his sixty or seventy-five a month Raymond
had set aside several hundreds; "and I said I could make the rest by
corresponding for some newspaper," he continued. This was in the simple
day when travel-letters from Europe were still printed and read in the
newspapers, and even "remunerated" by editors. Incredible, perhaps, in
this day; yet true for that.

His father had asked him how long he intended to be away. Raymond was
non-committal. He might travel for a year, or he might try "living" there
for a while--a long while. A matter of funds and of luck, it seemed. His
father, without pressing him closely, offered to double whatever sum he
had saved up. He appeared neither pleased nor displeased by Raymond's
course. He felt I suppose, that the bank would hardly suffer, and that
Raymond (whom he did not understand) might get some profit. Fathers have
their own opinions of sons, which opinions range, I dare say, all the
way from charitableness to desperation. In the case of my own son, I am
glad to say, a very slight degree of charitableness was all the tax laid
upon me. There were some distressing months of angularity, both in
physique and in manners, at seventeen; then a quick and miraculous
escape into trimness and grace. And my grandson, now at nine, promises
to be, I am glad to state, even more of a success and a pleasure. As for
Raymond, he had developed unevenly: his growth had gone athwart.
Possibly the "world," that vast, vague entity of which his father's
knowledge was restricted almost to one narrow field, might aid in
straightening the boy out.

"Well, try it for a year," his father said, not unkindly, and almost
wistfully.


VI

When Johnny McComas heard of Raymond's resolve, he drew up his round
face into a grimace. He thought the step queer, and he said so. But,
"Oh, well, if a fellow can afford it!" he added. And he did not explain
just what meaning he attached to the word "afford."

But Johnny could see no valid reason for a fellow's giving the town the
go-by at nineteen and at just that stage of the town's development.
Johnny was so made that the community which housed him was necessarily
the centre of the cosmos; he himself, howsoever placed, was necessarily
at the centre of the circle--so why leave the central dot for some vague
situation on the circumference? And take this particular town: what a
present! what a future! what a wide extension over the limitless prairie
with every passing month!--a prairie which merely needed to be cut up
into small checkers and sold to hopeful newcomers; a prairie which
produced profits as freely as it produced goldenrod and asters; a
prairie upon which home-seekers might settle down under agents whose
wide range, running from helpful coöperation to absolute flimflam, need
leave no competent "operator" other than rich.

"What are you going to get out of it?" asked Johnny earnestly.

Raymond attempted no set reply. Johnny, he recognized, was out for
positive results, for tangible returns; his idea was to get on in the
world by definite and unmistakable stages. Raymond never welcomed the
idea of "getting on"--not at least in the sense in which his own day and
place used the expression. To do so was but to acknowledge some early
inferiority. Raymond was not conscious of any inferiority to be
overcome. Johnny might, of course, on this particular point, feel as he
chose.

About this time old Jehiel Prince began to come more frequently to his
son's house. He was yellower and grayer, and he was getting testy and
irascible. He sometimes brought his lawyer with him, and the pair made
James Prince an active participant in their concerns. However, Jehiel
was perhaps less unhappy here than in his own home. When there, he sat
moodily alone, of evenings, in his basement office; and Raymond, who was
sometimes sent over with documents or with messages, impatiently
reported him to me as "glum."

"Poor old fellow! he doesn't know how to live!" said Raymond in
complacent pity. He himself, of course, had but to assemble all the
bright-hued elements that awaited him a few months ahead to make his own
life a poem, a song.

"I can do that," he once said, in a moment when exaltation had briefly
made him confidential.

Raymond never saw his grandmother--at least he never cared to see her.
Here, if nowhere else, he was willing to take a cue, and he took it from
the head of the family. He thought that so many years of town life might
have made her a little less rustic in the end: the York State of 1835 or
of 1840 need not have remained York State so immitigably. And if there
was a domestic blight on the house he was willing to believe that she
was two thirds to blame: behind the old soul was a pack of poor
relations. Particularly a brother-in-law--a bilious, cadaverous fellow,
whom I saw once, and once was enough. He had been an itinerant preacher
farther East, and he lived in a woeful little cottage along one of
Jehiel's horse-car routes. His mournful-eyed wife was always asking
help. He too had "gone into real-estate," and unsuccessfully. He was the
dull reverse of that victorious obverse upon which Johnny McComas was
beginning to shine.

Another of her relatives, a niece, had married a small-town sharper. He
had brought her to the larger town, and his sharpness had taken on a
keener edge. He, too, had gone into real-estate--a lean, wiry little
man, incredibly arid and energetic, and carrying a preposterously large
mustache. There was trouble with him after Jehiel's death. It developed
that one of the documents which old Beulah Prince had been cajoled or
hectored into signing had deeded to him--temporarily and for a specific
purpose--some forty acres of purple and yellow prairie flowers,
delightful blossoms nodding and swaying in the wind, and that he had
refused to deed more than half of them back: his services at that
particular juncture were "worth something," he said. Well, life (as may
have been remarked previously) would be quite tolerable without one's
relatives. Meanwhile the summer flowers bloomed and nodded on, under the
windy blue sky, all unaware of their disgrace.

A month after Raymond's decision, flowers (of the sort favored in
cemeteries) were trying to bloom over old Jehiel. Some stroke, some
lesion, had put a period to the unhappy career of this grim old man.
Raymond set to one side, for a few weeks, his new trunk and portmanteau;
for a few weeks only--he had no notion of making, ultimately, any great
change in his plans. It was obvious that James Prince was looking
forward to a year or two of harassing procedure in the courts, for old
Jehiel's estate was unlikely to smooth out with celerity; but Raymond
was clearly of no use at home, even as a mere source of sympathy. A
fortnight after his grandfather's funeral he was off.

The singing-class would have given him good-bye in a special session;
but his eyes were now on brighter matters and the vocalizing Gertrudes
and Adeles were dim. He got out of it. Besides, the affair might come to
involve something like ceremony; and he was always desirous of avoiding
(save in the arts) the ceremonial side of life. When he came back from
his first sojourn on the Continent he was a young man of mark, as things
went in our particular town and time; or, rather, he might have been
such, had he but chosen. The family fortunes were then merely at the
stage of worry and still far from that of impending disaster. Raymond
came back with money, position, and a certain aureole of personal
distinction--just the sort of young man who would be asked to act as
usher at a wedding. He _was_ asked repeatedly; but he never acted, and
his excuses and subterfuges for avoiding such a service almost became
one of the comedies of the day. He had no relish for seeing himself
walking ceremonially up a church aisle under the eyes of hundreds, and
I knew better than to ask him to walk up any aisle for me. He never did
the thing but once, and that was under the inescapable compulsion of his
fiancée--who, for her part, insisted on eyes and plenty of them. A man
may never cease to be astonished at the workings of feminine preferences
on such an occasion, but can hardly escape accommodating himself to
them. Gertrudes are Gertrudes.

But the wedding is years ahead, while the departure for Europe is
imminent. Raymond had a tepid, awkward parting with his mother, whose
headaches would not allow her to go to the train; and he shook hands
rather coldly and constrainedly with his father, who would have
welcomed, as I guess, some slight show of filial warmth, and he threw an
embarrassedly facetious word to me about the weight of his portmanteau,
and so was off. And it was years, rather than months, before he came
back.


PART III

I


While Raymond was taking his course abroad, Johnny McComas was shaping
his course at home. A colorless, unbiased statement--as it was meant to
be; one which, despite the slight difference between "taking" and
"shaping," has no slant and displays no animus. Colorless, yes; too
colorless, perhaps you will object. If so, I will reword the matter.
While Raymond, then, was in Europe cultivating his gentler faculties,
Johnny remained in America, strengthening certain specific powers. Or,
again: while Raymond was preparing, or so he thought, for a desirably
decorative place in the "world" (the world at large), Johnny was
qualifying himself, as he felt sure, for an important and remunerative
position in that particular section of the world to which he had decided
to confine his endeavors. And if you ask me, after I have colored a
colorless statement, to bias an unbiased one, I shall refuse. I am not
taking sides. Each of them was following his own likings--not the worst
of rules for a growing and avid organism.

Raymond wrote, of course,--it was impossible that he should not; and I
think I showed one or two of his early letters to Johnny. Johnny was not
exactly interested; vistas were opened for which he had no eyes and
which possessed no appositeness to his own aims.

"Still over there, eh?" he asked, on my producing a second letter.
"These are the years that count," he added. He was probably implying
that the final score would make a better showing for the man who spent
those years in his native and proper environment.

He disregarded the general drift of the letters, but hit upon one or two
novel expressions, and repeated them, half-quizzical, half-intrigue.

"Still over there," I echoed. A developing nature, I felt, must reach
out for whatever it needs; and, in simpler form, I said so.

"Well, I'm no misfit," he rejoined briefly. To "feel at home" at
home--that, I presume, was the advantage he was asserting.

Johnny, "at home," was not long in outgrowing the opportunities of
Dellwood Park. Though he did not make, quite yet, the central district,
a year or two later found him in an older and more important suburb--one
that had passed the first acuteness of speculation and had pretty well
settled down to a regulated life. It was not a suburb of the first rank,
nor even perhaps of the second; but it suited his tastes and his present
purposes. The new business combined banking and real-estate, and the
banking department even maintained a small safety-deposit vault. There
was also some insurance; and a little of mortgage-broking. Johnny was a
highly prized element in this business and was pleased from the start
with the outlook.

"A fellow," he said, "can pick up more experience out there in a month
than he could in one of these big downtown offices in a year."

Nearly two years passed before I was to see him in his new environment.
There came up a bit of business for a suburban client of mine which
could as well be settled at Johnny's place as at another. It needed no
more than a glance to perceive that Johnny was the dominant factor of
the little institution. His was the biggest roller-top seen through a
maze of gilt letters on a vast sheet of plate glass by commuters turning
the corner morning and evening. His, too, chiefly, the deference of
clerks and office-boy. He was ruddy and robust, and seemed likely to
impose himself anywhere, when the time came. Thus far, a small Forum,
perhaps; but he was the Cæsar in it. He did not disdain to attend to my
affair himself; he even showed an emphatic, if not ponderous,
_bonhomie_.

Just as I was getting up to leave, a man of forty-five or more, with the
general aspect of a contractor's foreman, put in his head. It was
Johnny's father.

"I guess you know George Waite," Johnny said to him; "and I guess he
knows you."

We shook hands, under Johnny's direction, and said that he was right.
His father's hand--rough and with a broken nail or two--was that of a
superintendent who on occasion helped with a plank or a mortarboard. He
had an open face and a pleasant manner; he was not at all the dominant
personage I remembered meeting in that "yard," years ago. Johnny, it
seemed, was putting up a row of small houses on the suburb's edge, and
his father was supervising the job. Johnny was pretty direct in saying
what he wanted done, or not done, in connection with this work; and if
his father made a suggestion it was as likely as not to be overruled. He
was only one of the senators in Johnny's little curia, and probably far
from the most important of them.

Johnny's father got away, after all, before I did. Johnny asked me to
stay for a little, and there was not much for a young professional man
to do after catching the 4.52 into town. We sat for a while talking of
indifferent matters. Johnny, surrounded by his own prosperity, asked
with a show of interest, and without condescension, about my progress in
the law, and I was replying with the cautious vagueness of one whose
practice is not yet all he hopes it will be. During this time I had
noticed, through the maze of gilt lettering, a limousine standing just
round the corner. Its curtains were drawn: "an odd circumstance," I had
commented inwardly. All of a sudden the street-door of the bank burst
open, and three masked men, brandishing revolvers, rushed in.

"You cover the cashier!" cried one; "we'll take care of the vault!"

Johnny McComas flung open a drawer, seized a revolver of his own, sprang
to his feet--

Pardon me, dear reader. The simple fact is, I have suddenly been struck
by my lack of drama. You see how awkwardly I provide it, when I try.
What bank robbers, I ask you, would undertake such an adventure at
half-past four in the afternoon? I cannot compete with the films. As a
matter of fact, the vault stood locked, the tellers were gone, even the
office-boy had stolen away, and Johnny and I were left alone together,
exchanging rather feebly, and with increasing feebleness, some faint and
unimportant boyhood reminiscences.... I feel abysmally abashed; let us
open a new section.


II

As I have said, Raymond wrote. He wrote, for example, with a voluminous
duteousness, to his parents. His letters to them, so far as they came to
my notice, were curious; probably he meant that they should be saved and
should become a sort of journal of his travels. They were almost
completely impersonal. There was plenty of straight description; but
beyond some slight indications of his own movements, past or intended,
there was no narration. He never mentioned people he met; he never
described his adventures--if he had any. He seemed to be saying to
Europe, as Rastignac said to Paris, "_À nous deux, maintenant!_" He was
at grips with the Old World, and that sufficed.

His letters to me, however, were not devoid of personal reactions. These
commonly took an æsthetic turn. An early letter from Rome had a good
deal to say about the Baroque. He met it everywhere; it was an
abomination; it tried his soul. Fontana and Maderna, the Gog and Magog
of architecture, had flanked the portals of art and had let through a
hideous throng of artificialities and corruptions.... The word "Baroque"
was new to me, and I looked it up. I learned that it described, not a
current movement, as I had supposed, but an influence which had
exhausted itself nearly three hundred years ago. But it was still recent
and real to Raymond. And I learned, further, that this style had modern
champions who could say a good word for it. In any event, it might be
accepted calmly as a valuable and characteristic link in the general
historic chain.

In another letter he was ecstatic over the Gothic brickwork of Cremona.
It was so beautiful, he said in as many words, that it made his heart
ache; not often did Raymond let himself go like that. Eager to follow
his track--and to understand, if possible, his heart, however peculiar
and baffling--I looked up, in turn, North Italian brickwork. This was
twice three hundred years old. But it had stirred other modern hearts
than Raymond's; for an English æsthete had tried (and almost succeeded)
to impose it on his country as a living mode. "Very well," I said;
"Italian brickwork may reasonably be accepted as a modern interest."

Raymond, before descending to Italy, had spent some months in Paris.
Circumstances had enabled him to frequent a few studios, and his first
letter to me from that city had been rather technical and "viewy."
Incidentally, he had seen something of the students, and had found
little to approve, either in their manners or their morals. He left
Paris without reporting any moral infractions of his own and settled
down for some stay in Florence. He was studying the language further, he
reported: a language, he said, which was easy to begin, but hard to
continue--the longer you studied the less you really knew. However, he
knew enough for daily practical purposes. His _pension_ was pleasant;
small, and the few visitors were mostly English.

But there were one or two Americans in the house, and they came home a
few months later with their account of Raymond and his ways. It was
needed; for the three or four letters that he had printed in one of our
newspapers contained little beyond descriptions of set sights--to think
we should have continued to welcome that sort of thing so long! Well,
these people reported him as conscientiously busy, for his hour each
day, with grammar and dictionary. He was also getting his hand in
painting; and he had "taken on" musical composition, even to
instrumentation. "Too many irons!" commented my lively young informant.
"And I think I should get my painting in Paris and my music in Germany."
She also said that Raymond had next to no social life--he showed hardly
the slightest desire to make acquaintances.

"An old Frenchman came to the place for a few days," she continued; "and
as he was leaving he said your friend was living in an ivory tower--the
windows few, the door narrow, and the key thrown away. 'Ivory tower'--do
you understand what that means?"

"No," I said. But of course I understand now.


III

As a consequence of my call at Johnny McComas's office (or as a probable
consequence), I received, some six months later, an invitation to his
wedding. You will expect to hear that I was present, and perhaps acted
as usher, or even as best man. Nothing of the sort was the case,
however; I was absent at the time in the East. Nor are you to imagine me
as continually following, at close range, the vicissitudes, major and
minor, which made up his life, or made up Raymond's. An exact, perpetual
attendance of fifty years is completely out of the question. Don't
expect it.

Johnny married, I was told, a young woman living in his own suburb, the
daughter of a manufacturer of some means. I met him about two months
after his great step. He was still full of the new life, and full of the
new wife.

"She's fine!" he declared. "Not too fine, but fine enough for me."

He cocked his hat to one side.

"Do you know, I talk to her just as I would to a man."

"Johnny!" I began, almost gasping.

"Well, what's wrong? Ever said anything much out of the way to you? Ever
heard me say anything to any other fellow?"

"Why, no...." I was obliged to acknowledge.

"Then why the row? It's all easy as an old shoe. _She_ likes it."

"I know. But--talking with a woman ... It isn't quite like...."

"Don't make any mistake. Just have the big things right, and they'll
overlook lots of the little ones."

"H'm," I said doubtfully. "I supposed it was just the other way. Lay a
lot of stress on certain little things, and larger shortcomings won't
bother them. Bring her a bunch of flowers to-day, and she'll help you
deed away the house and lot to-morrow."

"Fudge!" said Johnny. "I mean the really big things. There's only two.
Ground to stand on and air to breathe."

"That is to say...?"

"A platform under her feet and an atmosphere about her. Well, she's got
me to stand on and to surround her. She understands it. She likes it.
Nothing else matters much."

"Ah!" said I.

"I'm her bedrock, and I'm her--How do they say it? I'm her--envelopment,
as those painting fellows put it."

"See here, Johnny," I protested; "Don't get anachronistic. We are only
in 1884. That expression won't reach America for ten or fifteen years.
Have some regard for dates."

"It won't? Wasn't it in your friend's letter?"

"What friend?"

"Why, Prince; when he was in Paris. Didn't you read it to me?"

I remembered.

"Do you know," he went on, "I've been straight as a string--ever since.
And I'm going to keep so."

"I should hope so, indeed."

"Whatever I may have been before. But I think it's better for a young
fellow to dash in and find out than to keep standing on the edge and
just wonder."

"Well, I don't know, Johnny," I returned soberly. "I'm going to be
married myself, next month. And I expect to go to my bride just as
pure--"

"No preaching," said Johnny. "The slate's wiped clean. Adele's all right
for me, and I'm all right to her."

He adjusted his hat, making the two sides of the brim level.

"We're going to move shortly," he stated. "The business can go on where
it is, for a while, but we're going to live somewhere else."

Perhaps in the city itself, it appeared; perhaps in some suburb toward
the north. But no longer in one to the west. Johnny was developing some
such scent for social values and some such feeling for impending
topographical changes as had begun to stir the great houses that were
grouped about the Princes.

"So you're the next one?" he said presently. "It's the only life. Good
luck to you. And who's going to see you through? Prince?"

"Yes--'my friend.' I'm glad you remember him."

"Oh yes; I can remember him when I try. But I don't try very hard or
very often. Back in this country?"

"He is."

"What's he doing?" Johnny fixed his hard blue eyes firmly on me.

I was sorry to have no very definite answer. "He has been in the East
lately. He'll be back here in time for me."

"Well," said Johnny darkly; and that was all.


IV

Raymond's "tower" was not static, but peripatetic. Early in his second
summer abroad it was standing among the Dutch windmills for a brief
season; and when he learned that I was to have a short vacation in
England--the only quarter of the Old World I ever cared for--he left it
altogether for a fortnight and came across from Flushing to see me.

Two points immediately made themselves clear. Firstly, he was viewing
the world through literature--through works of fiction in some cases,
through guide-books in more. Everything was a spectacle, with himself
quite outside as an onlooker; and nothing was a spectacle until it had
been ranged and appraised in print. Secondly, if he was outside of
things, America was still farther outside; it existed as a remote
province not yet drawn into the activities and interests of the "world."
He seemed willing, even anxious, to make himself secondary, subordinate.
However he may have been on the Continent, here in England his desire to
conform made him appear subservient and almost abject. asked one of the
group which surrounded him.

"He has been stealing the children's dinners. He stole yesterday, and
he has been stealing to-day."
This was a sad account to hear. Jimmy begged to be permitted to go home,
but Mr.

Dudley told him he had better return to the school. He then very reluctantly
walked down to the gate with the largest boy, and I suppose was
led back to his teacher.

Mrs. Dudley had never heard of this child before, but Mr. Dudley said he
had known him as a very bad boy. She asked Mary how she happened to
know any thing about him.

Mary told her that he attended Sunday-school, and that, a few Sundays
before, one of the children could not find his cap. A thorough search was
made for it, but it could not be found. The superintendent thought some
one must have taken it.

He suspected Jimmy, because his reputation was so bad, and followed him
on his way home. Jimmy had it on his head, and his own cap was
hidden under his sack!

The superintendent of the school talked with Jimmy, who said he would
never steal again; but, alas! he soon forgot his good resolution.

Although he carried a dinner for himself in his tin pail, he took
whatever he liked from the baskets of his companions.

Mrs.

Dudley has seen this boy several times since she heard him crying
on the lawn.

She says it always makes her feel sad to meet him, for she cannot
avoid thinking,--"that is the boy who steals."

She has learned that he has no father or mother, but lives with his
grandparents.

I fear he "will bring down their gray hairs with sorrow to the
grave."

He has allowed himself to steal small things, and as he grows older
he will probably take articles of more value.

He may become a housebreaker or a murderer.

It is dangerous to indulge in the least sin.

It hardens the heart, and stifles the whisper of that still, small voice,
which so often tells children, when they are tempted to do wrong,
"That is not right; you should not do that."

In some Catechism the question is asked, "What is my duty to my neighbour?"
and a part of the answer is, "To keep my hands from picking and stealing."
I suppose "picking" must mean, secretly taking little pieces of cake,
or sugar, or any thing of the kind, of small value.

I presume Jimmy was in the habit of "picking," at his grandmother's
before he ventured to steal at school.

I could tell you several very sad stories of people who have stolen
when they were children, and who have grown more and more wicked, as
they have advanced in years, till they became a curse to society and
themselves.

"The way of transgressors is hard."

These people have no true enjoyment. There is always a fearful looking
forward to the future.

It is not pleasant to me to write about bad children, and I should not
do it if it were not to warn the dear children I so much love against
the formation of wrong and sinful habits.

How much better it would be for Jimmy if he had learned to "touch
not, taste not, handle not," that which does not belong to him!

[Illustration]

LOOK AT THE BIRDS!

October, with its golden and crimson hues, its "gentle wind," and its "fair
sunny noon," has passed away. November has come. The sun shines brightly,
and the sky is almost clear of clouds; but the chill wind blows roughly,
and the leaves are rudely torn from the trees where they have gladdened
us through the spring and the summer by their refreshing shade, their
modest beauty, and their sweet music, as they sung to the gentle
breeze which played amid the branches.

They lie now, most of them, beneath the trees, wrinkled and faded,
or scattered here and there, far from their fellows, wherever the cold
blast has wafted them.

The birds have been taught by their unfailing instinct that summer has
departed, and winter is near.

They no more warble their rich melodies, or flit in and out of the bowery
recesses of the honeysuckles or peep with knowing look under the
eaves, or into the arbour.

Other purposes prompt to other acts, and they are taking their
farewell of the pleasant summer haunts, where they have built their
nests and reared their young.

This morning, soon after sunrise, Willie was standing on the lawn,
contemplating the beauties of nature, and thinking, I suppose, of
the changes of the seasons, when all at once I heard him shout,
"Look at the birds!

Look at the birds!" We threw open the window, and there were thousands
and thousands of them almost over our heads.

Their wings made a noise like the rushing of a steam-engine as it
cleaves the air in its speed.

They were calling to each other with a short, quick sound.

It seemed as if they were giving and receiving orders.

We watched them till they disappeared over the tree-tops.

"There are more! There are more!" shouted Mary. We again looked towards
the rising sun, and up over the eastern hills came another immense flock,
calling to each other as the first, and they too disappeared behind the
western hills.

"There is another flock!" and so indeed there was. Up from the
meadows and over the hills they came, swaying up and down in their
flight, and so near that we could see each bird distinctly. Almost
simultaneously they alighted on Clover Hill to rest for a moment. I can
never forget their motion so full of grace and beauty, waving and
undulating like the gentle swell of the ocean. Soon, another
company followed in the same direction, and when they were over Clover
Hill, up flew the others, and away they went with them beyond our sight.
Flock after flock appeared, each taking the same general
direction, and some of them so large that they stretched from
the hills which bounded our view on one side, as far as our eye could
see on the other.

They looked, as Willie said, like bees swarming, only they were much
larger. Occasionally a few stragglers could be seen, hurrying on to join
their party, which was in advance of them. Perhaps they had delayed
to take a last farewell of their pleasant summer homes, or, may be, they
were dilatory in their habits, and did not make their morning
toilet in season.

I hope they will be more prompt in future, for it is a bad habit to be
late, and occasions, often, much vexation and inconvenience.

I never before saw so many birds together, although I have frequently
been startled by the peculiar sound made by large numbers flying in
company, and have looked at them with wonder and admiration.

The migration of birds is one of the most remarkable phenomena in
natural history.

"The stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times, and the turtle,
and the crane, and the swallow, observe the time of their coming," and
so do all birds of passage. Their Creator has endowed them with a
wonderful instinct, which, in some way, unknown to us, teaches
them to guard against the severity of the season by seeking a warmer
climate, and when "winter is past," and "the flowers appear on the
earth," and "the vines, with the tender grape, give a good smell," then
"the time of the singing of birds is come," and their voice is heard
in our land. Some of them return, not only to the same country, but
to the same place, where they have previously built their nests, and,
year after year, raise their broods in the same friendly tree.

It is said that, to enable birds to fly with ease, and to continue long
on the wing, they must fly against the wind. I observed, this morning,
that there was a brisk wind from the west, while the birds were
flying a little south of west. Perhaps they had been waiting several
days for a favourable wind, and that may have been the reason of
the great number of flocks we saw.

"Behold the fowls of the air," said our Saviour, in his sermon on the
mount; "for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns,
yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.

Are ye not much better than they?" At another time, when he was talking
with his disciples about the persecutions they should endure for his sake,
he said to them, "Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of
them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But the very hairs
of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not, therefore; ye are of more
value than many sparrows."
Not one of that immense number of birds, which we saw flying to a warmer
country, can perish without God's knowledge. He sees every one of
them. During the summer, he has fed them on the meadows near the
sea-shore, and now that winter is approaching, he has taught them
to seek other localities, where their appropriate food can be found.

Whenever God's children are tempted to yield to despondency, and
to fear that they shall suffer from want, let them remember that
they are of more value than many sparrows, and that if they trust
their heavenly Father, their bread shall be given them, and their
water shall be sure.

He who feeds the birds will feed them.

May he

"Fill" our souls "with trust unshaken In that Being who has taken Care for
every living thing, In Summer, Winter, Fall and Spring."
[Illustration]

THE LOST CHILD.

It was a Sabbath morning in November, clear, bright and frosty.
Mrs.
Dudley's family were preparing for church. They heard Carlo bark violently,
and knew a stranger must be near. Carlo is a faithful watch-dog, but
his habit of barking at visitors is so disagreeable, that he is usually
kept chained in the day-time. On Sunday, as no company is expected,
he is permitted to go at large. When Mr. Dudley heard Carlo, he
immediately threw open the window, and spoke to him.
He saw a gentleman, who was evidently much alarmed. None of the family
knew him. The stranger soon made known the occasion of his call, by
inquiring,
"Have you seen any thing of a stray child?"
"No, we have not; whose child is lost?"
"Mr. McPherson's."
"How old is the child?"
"About six years old. His mother sent him from home, yesterday, about
two o'clock, and she has heard nothing from him since. He had a small
tin pail with him to get some yeast."
It is sad to hear that a child is lost, and all the family sympathized
with the anxious parents. "How badly you would feel if I was lost!" said
Eddie, and he looked sober and grieved, as he thought of the little boy
about his own age, who had wandered from home, no one knew where. There
was much fear that he had fallen into the river, as he had been
seen on the dock.

At ten o'clock the family started for church. They met people who were
searching for the child, and who asked them, as the gentleman had
done at the house, "Have you seen any thing of a stray child?"
Notice was given in the churches that a boy was lost, and many a
mother's heart beat quicker as she thought of her own dear little ones,
and imagined one of them sleeping, perhaps, through that cold November
night on the ground, or (fearful thought!) buried deep in the chill
water.

After church, you could hear one and another inquiring anxiously, "Has the
child been found?" But no favourable answer was received. In the
afternoon, however, many hearts were gladdened by learning that he
was safe. He had gone to the village, and got his pennyworth of yeast,
and then, instead of returning immediately, he stopped to play
with some boys.

He had gone with them to a part of the village with which he was not
acquainted and when he wished to go home, he did not know what
direction to take. He chose a road leading him from home, and wandered
at least five miles. Just before dark an old gentleman and his grandson
were walking on the road, and they observed this little boy crying.

"What do you suppose he is crying about?" said the child to his
grandfather.

"I don't know. Perhaps he has been sent to the grocery, and does not like
to go."
They watched him and found he did not stop, but passed on with his tin
pail, crying grievously. They waited for him to come up to them, and
asked him,
"What are you crying about?"
"I want to go home!"
"Where is your home?"
The boy could not tell.

"What is your name?"
"William Hudson." He did not say, as he should have done, William Hudson
McPherson.

The old gentleman kindly took him by the hand, and led him to his own
home. William's tears were soon dried, and he became quite contented.

It was too late to attempt to find his parents that night, as he could
not tell where they lived, and the name of Hudson was not familiar to
the good people who had given him shelter.

When Sabbath morning came, William was questioned again and again, till
at length some clue was obtained of his father's place of residence.
The horse was harnessed, and William, with lame and blistered feet,
was placed in the wagon. About noon he safely reached home, and was
clasped once more to his mother's heart. The father had not returned
from his search, and he afterwards said, it had seemed to him that
he never could go home without his child, on account of the terrible
and almost frantic distress of the mother.

As he approached his house, borne down with grief, he saw a wagon
at the door. His heart leaped with joy, for he thought the lost one
was found. He opened the door hopefully, and there, indeed, was William
gathered once more with his brothers and sisters around the great
cooking-stove, tears of joy flowing down the grateful mother's cheeks.

All this great grief which William's father and mother endured--all
the anxiety felt throughout the town--and all the sufferings of the boy
himself, were occasioned by William's stopping to play, when he ought
to have gone directly home!

Children often think they are quite as capable of judging for themselves,
as their parents are for them. Sooner or later this opinion will lead
them into trouble. William thought it was safe to stop and see the
boys play marbles, but he found, to his sorrow, that it would have
been far better to have resisted temptation and denied himself the
short pleasure he enjoyed.

Every human heart is grieved when a child like William strays from
home.

We do not wonder that his mother should be fearfully anxious in regard
to his fate. But, oh!

how much more bitter tears a loving mother sheds, when her dear
ones stray from the path of virtue, and become disobedient and
wicked!

I hope none of the children who read about William will go astray
from the right path, but will ever choose that which is pure and
lovely and of good report, and which, through the grace of God in
Christ Jesus, will safely lead them home to heaven.

[Illustration]

THE UNPLEASANT NEIGHBOUR.

Eddie's father has a disagreeable neighbour. In one way or another he is
a constant source of annoyance. Sometimes his pigs will creep
through the fence, and root up the smooth green lawn.

His part of the fence he will not keep in repair, and the hungry cows,
in search of food, will break into the garden, and make sad havoc
among the cabbages and other vegetables. His fine bay horse, whom he
knows will jump over any ordinary fence, is permitted to run in
a pasture, where he can eke out his scanty meal by a hearty lunch
among Mr. Dudley's corn. All these aggressions, and many more, have
been borne with the greatest patience.

Mr. Dudley has often been advised to resort to the law as a means of
defence, yet he has been reluctant to do so. The children have sometimes
felt very indignant when they have been obliged to chase the pigs
or the cows out of the yard or field, but their parents have endeavoured
to teach them Christian forbearance.

At one time Eddie had been thinking about Mr. Morrison,--for by that
name I shall call the unpleasant neighbour,--and he said very seriously
to his mother,
"Mother, can Mr. Morrison go to heaven if he dies."
She hesitated a moment how to answer him, for, she had taught him that
it is wicked to lie and to swear, and that if a person loves God
he will not be in the habit of committing such sins; so she told
him, that unless Mr.

Morrison repented he could not go to heaven.

At another time Eddie and his mother were talking about God's love
for the beings he has made.

She told him that God loves every one.

"Does he love Mr. Morrison?" he inquired.

"Yes, God loves Mr. Morrison. He is grieved and offended by his wickedness,
but he loves him. You know I love you, when you have done wrong, although
I am sorry that you have been naughty.

I do not cease to love you. The Bible tells us that while we were
sinners, God so loved us as to send his Son to die for us. He loves
all, and wishes all to repent and believe in Christ, and be happy. He
has provided a way for all who believe to be saved, and it is only
because people love sin more than they love holiness, that
they are lost."
Nothing can give us a higher idea of God's love, than the thought that he
loves every one--even his enemies. "God is love." What a blessed,
glorious thought! How it encourages us to trust him at all times!

God does not willingly afflict, nor grieve, nor punish any one. All that
he does, he does from the truest love.

The knowledge that God loves us should lead us to love him.

We are naturally disposed to love those who love us, and always do, unless
there is something repulsive about them. There can be nothing repulsive
about God, for he is love, and we who love him, love him because
he first loved us.
One night, after little Eddie had repeated the Lord's Prayer and
his usual evening petitions, he raised his head, and said to his
mother, 
"Shan't I pray for Mr. Morrison, now?"
"Yes, dear, if you wish to," she answered.
He bowed his head again, and uttered a simple prayer for the man
who was the occasion of so much trouble and perplexity to his
father's family. He prayed that God would forgive his sins for
Jesus' sake, and make him a good man. It was very pleasant to hear
Eddie pray thus, and to witness his kind and forgiving spirit.
Mr. and Mrs. Dudley have often regretted that the children should
have their early memories saddened by such a neighbour, but perhaps
their heavenly Father wishes to teach them a lesson of forbearance
and love for those who injure them, which they could not so well
learn in any other way.
Our Saviour, when dying on the cross, taught us practically the
duty of forgiveness. He prayed even for those who put him to
death.
"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Do you not
suppose he was pleased to hear Eddie ask his Father in heaven to
forgive Mr. Morrison and make him a good man?

[Illustration]
THE BOY WHO KEPT HIS PURPOSE.
"I would not be so mean," said George Ward to a boy who stood by,
while he put the candy he had just bought in his pocket.
[Illustration: "I wouldn't be so mean."]
"You have no right to call me mean," replied Reuben Porter, "because
I don't spend my money for candy."
"You never spend it for any thing," continued George, tauntingly.
It was true. Reuben did not spend his money. Do you suppose it was
because he loved it more than other boys do?
Reuben turned slowly away, meditating upon what had occurred.
"I will not care for what George thinks," he at length said to
himself; "I have four dollars now, and when I have sold my cabbages,
I shall have another dollar. _I shall soon have enough_," and his
heart bounded joyfully, his step recovered its elasticity and his
pace quickened, as the pleasant thought removed the sting which the
accusation of meanness had inflicted on his sensitive spirit.In fact, home and business were Johnny's two sources
of interest and pleasure--the warp and woof of his life--and he was
determined on getting the utmost out of each. His interest in his home
circle may somewhat have declined--or at least have moderated--with
advancing years, but it was incandescent now. His interest in the
outside world--that oyster-bin awaiting his knife--never slackened, not
even when the futility of piling up the empty shells became
daylight-clear, and when higher things strove perseveringly, even
unmistakably, to beckon him on. Never, in fact, throughout his life did
he exhibit more than two essential concerns: one for his family and
clan; and one for the great outside mass of mediocre individuals through
whose ineptitudes he justly expected to profit.

Well, the door of the den remained open, and our talk went on to the
rising and falling of infant voices. At last, thinking that my good-bye
must be to Johnny only, I rose to go. You might reasonably ask for a
clearer impression of his home and a more definite account of his wife.
But what can I say when the primary address was so disconcertingly to
the ear? Of his wife--who came down, during a lull, at the last
moment--I can only say that she seemed too _empressée_ at the beginning
and too casual at the end. Perhaps she had decided that, after all, I
was no more than I myself claimed to be. Perhaps the infant hurricane
was still ruffling the surface of her mind, or even disturbing its
depths.

"I won't ask you to call again," she said, as we shook hands for a
good-night: "we shall be moving in the spring." She spoke with a
satisfied air of self-recognized _finesse_, and as in the confident hope
of completing very promptly some well-planned little programme; but--

"Visit us there," said Johnny, with a quick cordiality which prevented
his wife from redeeming herself.

"There" had been the chief topic in the den. Many neighborhoods had been
brought forward, with their attendant advantages and disadvantages.
Johnny told me what he thought, and let me say what I thought. When I
listened, it was as a man who might soon have a similar problem to
consider. When I spoke it was to utter banalities sedately; any
neighborhood might do, I said, that had good air; yes, and good
schools--looking toward the future. And any house, I felt, would serve,
if it had a nursery that was sealed, sound proof, remote....

"Well, best luck in your search for your roof-tree," I said earnestly to
them both.

"'Roof-tree'!" echoed Johnny. And, in fact, my observation did seem
rather artificial and insincere.


II

By the time Raymond reached home, Johnny McComas had turned his informal
suburban enterprise into a "state" bank, with his father-in-law as
president and himself as cashier. The father-in-law lent his name and
furnished most of the capital; Johnny himself provided the driving
power. And by the time Raymond had become, through his father's death,
the head of the family and the controller of the family funds, Johnny
had turned his state bank into a national bank, with its offices in the
city and with himself as president; and he had bought--at a bargain--a
satisfactory house on the edge of the neighborhood where we first met
him. The street was marked for business advance more promptly and more
unmistakably than the precise quarter of the Princes. It would do as a
home for a few years. The transaction appealed both to McComas's thrift
and his pride. The coming of his new little bank, with its modest
capital, made no particular stir in the "street"; and the great group of
houses to the eastward were so apprehensive of open outrage, in one form
or another, that his approach, in a guise still social, provoked but
scant concern.

James Prince died when Raymond was about thirty. A careful, plodding man
who had never brought any direct difficulties upon himself, but who had
been worried--and worried out--through troubles left him by others. On
the whole, he had found life an unrewarding thing; and he passed along,
at fifty-five, with no great regrets. The tangle of family affairs had
finally been straightened out in considerable measure, though Raymond
found enough detail still left to make him realize what a five years his
father had passed through; and when, the year following, his mother
died, with the settlement of her estate almost overlapping the
settlement of his father's, he acquired a new sense of the grinding,
taxing possibilities of business. I speak from his own viewpoint; he was
susceptible--unduly, abnormally so--to the grind and the tax. After a
few months of clammy old Brand and his methods, he suddenly cut loose
from him (without waiting for him to die, as he did a little later); and
he told me that I was the man to wind up these tedious affairs. They
were not nearly so difficult and complicated as they seemed to him--they
were now largely routine matters, in fact; and I hope I carried things
along at a tempo which satisfied him. This is not to deny that Raymond
seemed to have days when he found even me dilatory and exasperating; but
old Brand would probably have driven him mad.

Well, the prospects of his estate were not too brilliant. The lawsuits
had been expensive and sometimes unsuccessful; the bank had passed a
dividend, and the old houses, which had meant a lot of money in their
day, meant less now and even loss in a near future. The time was fast
coming when this circumscribed and unprotected neighborhood was to
admit other--and prejudicial--interests: boarding-houses, of course; and
refined homes for inebriates; and correspondence-schools for engineers;
and one of the Prince houses became eventually the seat of a
publishing-firm which needed a little distinction more than it needed a
wide spread of glass close to the sidewalk.

Whatever the state of Raymond's fortunes, it was easy to see that they
were not likely to improve in his hands. He detested business, both _en
gros_ and _en détail_. Despite his ancestry, he seemed to have been born
with no faculty for money-making, and he never tried to make up his
deficiency. It was all of a piece with the stone-throwing of his boyhood
days--he never attempted to improve himself: it was enough to follow the
gifts with which he had been natively endowed. Precept, example,
opportunity--all these went for naught. To the end of his days he viewed
the American "business man" as a portentous and inexplicable
phenomenon--one to be regarded with distaste and wonder. He persisted
in thinking of the type as a juvenile one--an energetic and clever boy,
who was immensely active and immensely productive of results (in an
immensely limited field), but who was incapable of anything like an
_aperçu_ or a _Weltanschauung_ (oh, he had plenty of words for it!), and
who was essentially booked to lose much more than he gained. He disliked
"offices" and abominated "hours." I think that even my own modest
professional applications sometimes became a puzzle to him....

And here I stand--convicted of having perpetrated another section
without one short paragraph and without a single line of conversation.
Let me hasten to bring Raymond to my suite and my desk-side, and make
him speak.

He came down one morning, as administrator of his mother's estate, to
consider the appraisal of the personal property--many familiar items,
and some discouraging ones.

"Do you _have_ to do this?" he asked me, with the paper in his hand. "Do
you _like_ to do it?"

"The world's work," I rejoined temperately. "It's got to be done."

"H'm!" he returned. "The world's a varied place. And its work is varied
too. This blessed town must be taught that."

Was he girding himself to be one of its teachers?

From that time on I resolved to take him patiently and good-humoredly: a
friend must bear a friend's infirmities.


III

I did not know, with precision, what phases of the world's work were
engaging Raymond's attention. I suppose he was adventuring, rather
vaguely, among the "liberal arts," though he probably saw, by this time,
that a full professional exercise of any of them was beyond his reach.
He was heard of as writing short essays and reviews for one or two
genteel publications, as making water-color tours through the none too
alluring suburbs, as composing minor pieces for a little musical society
which he had joined and which he wished to advance, and so on.
Acquaintances reported him at architectural exhibits and at
book-auctions--occasions neither numerous nor important. He lived on
alone in his father's house--expensively; too expensively, of course,
for it was an exacting place to keep up.

He was coming to be known in a small circle--but an influential one--as
a young man of wealth, culture, and good-will. But his wealth was less
than supposed, his culture was self-centred, and his good-will was
neither broad nor zealous.

However, the new day was coming when he could be turned to account--or
when, at least, people made the attempt.

This, however, does not mean philanthropy. That was barely dawning as a
social necessity. The few who were supporting charitable institutions
and were working in the recently evolved slums were neither conspicuous
nor fashionable. Nor does it mean political betterment. No efforts had
yet been successful in substituting for the city's executive incubus a
man of worthier type, nor was there yet any effective organization
founded on the assumption--which would have seemed remote and fantastic
indeed--that a city council could be improved. Parlor lectures on civics
were of course still farther in the future. Poor government was simply a
permanent disability, like weather, or lameness, or the fashions; folk
must get along as best they could in spite of it. The town remained a
chaos of maladministration and of non-administration; but when the
decencies are, for the time being, despaired of, one may still try for
the luxuries. So the city girded itself for a great festival; the nation
approved and coöperated, and a vast congeries of white palaces began to
rise on our far edge.

The detailed execution of this immense undertaking was largely local, of
course. Though the work was initiated by older heads (some of them were
too old and were dropped), there were places on the innumerable
committees for younger ones--for men in their early thirties; their
vigor, enthusiasm, and even initiative (within understood limits) would
greatly further the cause. There were (among others) committees on
entertainment to engage the services of young men of position, leisure,
and social experience. There were many foreign dignitaries to be
received and guided; there must be lively and presentable youths to help
manoeuvre them. Raymond, who was supposed to have mingled in European
society (instead of having viewed it from afar, in detachment), was
asked to serve in this field.

There were equally good opportunities for brisk, aggressive young men on
finance committees and such-like bodies, wherein prominent sexagenarians
did the heavily ornamental and allowed good scope for younger men who
had begun to get a record and who wished to confirm ability in
influential eyes. This opened a road for John W. McComas, who made a
record, indeed, in the matter of gathering local subscriptions. He
dented the consciousness of several important men in his own field, and
got praised in the press for his indefatigability and his powers of
persuasion. Before the six months of festivity were half over, our
Johnny had become a "prominent citizen" and his new bank almost a
household word.

Raymond did less well. The great organization was an executive
hierarchy: ranks and rows of officials, with due heed not only to
coördination but to subordination. Some men do their best under such
conditions; others, their worst. Raymond, a strong individualist, a
pronounced egoist, could not "fall in." Even in his simple field--one
concerned chiefly with but the outward flourishes--the big machine irked
and embarrassed him. He withdrew. When an imperial prince was publicly
"received," with ceremonies that mingled old-world formalities (however
lamely followed) and local inspirations (however poorly disciplined),
the moving event went off with no help of his: I believe he even smiled
at it all from a balcony.

It was here that Raymond began to make clear his true type. He was
Goethe's "bad citizen"--the man who is unable to command and unwilling
to obey.

After a particularly flamboyant appreciation of McComas's services in a
Sunday newspaper, I ventured to touch on our Johnny's rise in Raymond's
hearing. The two had not met for years; and Johnny had probably no
greater place in Raymond's mind than Raymond, as I remembered once
finding, had in Johnny's. But Raymond did not yet pretend to overlook or
to forget or to ignore him; nor did he yet allow himself to mention
Johnny as a one-time dweller in his father's stable.

"Why, yes," said Raymond; "he seems to be coming on fast. Climbing like
anything."

This, I felt, was disapproval, slightly tinctured with contempt. But
there are two kinds of progress on a ladder or a stairway. There is the
climbing up, and there is (as we sometimes let ourselves say) the
climbing down.

It was at the imperial reception that Raymond and Johnny finally met.
Let us figure Raymond as descending from his satirical balcony, and
Johnny, with his wife, as earnestly working his way up the great
stairway--the _scalone_, as Italy had taught Raymond to call it. This
was an ample affair with an elaborate handrail, whose function was
nullified by potted plants, and with a commodious landing, whose corners
contained many thickset palms. A crowd swarmed up; a crowd swarmed down;
the hundreds were congested among the palms. Johnny, with his wife on
his arm, was robust and hearty, and smiled on things in general as he
fought their way up. He took the occasion as he took any other occasion:
much for granted, but with a certain air of richly belonging and of
worthily fitting in. His wife--"I suppose it was his wife," said
Raymond--was elaborately gowned and in high feather: a successful
delegate of luxury. Obviously an occasion of this sort was precisely
what she had long been waiting for. Despite the press about her, she
made her costume and her carriage tell for all they might. A triumphing
couple, even Raymond was obliged to concede. The acme of team work....

"There we were--stuck in the crowd," said Raymond, whose one desire
seemed to have been to gain the street. "Not too close, fortunately. I
had to bow, but I didn't have to speak; and I didn't have to be
'presented.' He gave me quite a nod."

And no great exercise of imagination was required for me to see how
distant and reserved was Raymond's bow in return.


IV

That autumn, after the festal flags had ceased their flaunting and fire
had made a wide sweep over the white palaces, Raymond suddenly went
abroad. Willie smiled, and kissed her, and went out of doors again to
enjoy the evening-- 
"So cool, so calm, so bright."

Willie is generally a good boy, but he has a quick temper. When three
or four years old, he would sometimes get very angry. I have even known
him to throw things at children with whom he was playing, if they
did any thing to offend him.

He did so one day when his mother was from home. She was much grieved
when she heard it, and talked seriously with him. It made a deep
impression on his mind. He speaks of it now with great solemnity, and
asks his mother if she remembers it. He feels that he committed a
great sin. He knows it is wrong to let his temper govern his reason,
and he is struggling to control himself. I think he will succeed.

I knew his grandfather when I was a little girl, and I remember hearing
him say that he was naturally quick-tempered; but, although I lived
in the same house with him, and saw him under a great variety of
circumstances, I never heard him speak a hasty word.

I hope Willie will obtain as perfect control over himself, and, if he
lives to manhood, that his friends will be able to say of him what I can
say of his grandfather.

Willie was, at one time, playing with some children, and found he was
growing angry. He immediately left them, and sat down on the stairs
alone. Pretty soon they followed him. He did not feel entirely
good-natured, so he again left them, and went into the library. He shut
the door and prayed to his Father in heaven for strength to conquer
himself.

He remained there alone till he felt he had obtained the victory.

Willie is not the only little boy who has a quick temper, and I tell
this story about him for the sake of the dear children who sometimes
get angry.

I hope, like Willie, they will learn to go to God for help, and then,
like his, their countenances will be radiant with gladness; and they,
too, can say, "How happy I am!"
"An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in
transgression."
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that
ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."
"He that hath no rule over his own spirit, is like a city that is
broken down, and without walls."

"EVER SO MANY BEAUTIFUL THINGS."

"There are ever so many beautiful things up in the sky, mother!"

said little Eddie, as he sat in his mother's lap, leaning his head upon
her encircling arm.

The clouds had gathered about the horizon, and assumed many beautiful
and fantastic shapes.

Some of them were gorgeously coloured with the rays of the departing sun,
and were shaded from the most delicate rose to the darkest, richest
crimson.

As the sun receded farther and farther behind the green hills, they
grew darker and darker, and the imaginative boy had seen fancied
ships with their sails spread; steam-vessels with clouds of smoke
rolling from their chimneys; mountains piled upon mountains; trees,
birds, and many other wondrous things which filled his infant mind
with admiration.

Soon the stars twinkled forth, and they awoke a new interest. At first
they appeared one by one, as if timidly venturing to look down upon our
beautiful planet, and when fully assured that the king of day had
disappeared, they came forth faster and more numerously, till the whole
heavens were bespangled with their glittering brightness. Then their
companion, the moon, came slowly up, shining with a soft and mellow
light, a new beauty in the "blue wilderness of interminable air."
Eddie had long gazed silently before he uttered the exclamation, "There
are ever so many beautiful things up in the sky!" and I suppose he had
many thoughts which it would have been pleasant for his mother to know.
He did not often sit up so late that he could see the stars.

Eddie is not the only one who has been charmed with the glowing
sunset, the gray twilight, or the starry firmament.

David loved to look upon the works of God. In one of his psalms, he says,
"When I consider the heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the
stars which thou hast ordained, what is man, that thou art mindful of
him, and the son of man, that thou visitest him!" It was astonishing
to David, that God, who was so infinitely superior to man, and
who had given such proofs of his power and greatness in the creation
of the heavens, should condescend to notice him, to provide for his
minutest wants, and to protect him from danger. I suppose this psalm
was written in the night, when the sweet singer of Israel had been looking
at just such a sky as drew from Eddie his exclamation of admiration.

I often think, as I look abroad, how wonderful it is that God has
made every thing so beautiful.

We need never be weary in studying his works. The more we learn of them,
the more we realize his greatness and perfection. "The heavens declare
the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork."
When you look at the clear blue sky, do you remember who has spread it
out, and who has created the innumerable worlds which we see, when darkness
covers our earth? "There are," indeed, "ever so many beautiful things up
in the sky," and it was a Father's hand that placed them there.

They are for us to enjoy, and many a lesson of love and confidence have
they taught God's children. Dear little Eddie!

I hope he will always love nature, and early learn to "look through nature
up to nature's God."

I shall never forget a drive with my father, when I was a child so
small that I sat on a little footstool in the carriage, between him
and my mother.

We were returning from a visit to Aunt Harriet, at whose house we had
been spending the day. It was a fine evening. The air was balmy and
pleasant. I remember how the frogs sung in the low ground, and how
we listened to their quaint music.

We had not ridden far before the moon rose, and the stars, one by one,
appeared. My father had a true love for nature, and for whatever was
beautiful or grand. We drove on without speaking for a time, each enjoying
the evening. My father broke the silence by repeating that beautiful
hymn of Addison's, commencing with these lines--
"The spacious firmament on high, With all the blue ethereal sky, And
spangled heavens, a shining frame, Their great Original proclaim."

I was awed by the reverence of his manner, and I felt myself in the
presence of my Maker,--a mere speck amid his vast creations. An ineffaceable
impression was made on my mind, young as I was. My father died many
years ago, while I was still a child, but the lesson of that hour has
not been forgotten.

[Illustration]

LILY AND HER DUCKLINGS.

The white duck, Lily, made a nest on the ground, in a small
enclosure, from which some tame rabbits had been removed.

She gathered the scattered straw into one corner, and made a much neater
nest than the other ducks did, who laid their eggs under the wood-pile
among the small chips.

She laid several large, smooth, white eggs, and when she had as many as
she could conveniently take care of, she began to sit on them to keep
them warm, till the little ducks should be ready to peck their way
out. She plucked the soft white down from her breast, to line the nest,
and to make it of a more even temperature for the eggs; and, whenever
she left to procure food, or to take a short swim on the pond, she
carefully covered them.

The duck cannot spread her wings as wide as the hen, so she has to be
much more particular about her nest. She makes it deeper and warmer
than Biddy. It is wonderful with what skill all animals rear their young.
It shows the great goodness and kindness of God, that he should thus fit
the creatures he has made for the duties they must perform.
His care is continual, not only over us, but over them all.

He hears the young ravens when they cry, and the ducks and the chickens
are not forgotten by him. To the duck he has not given the brooding wings
of the hen-mother; but he has given her a coat of down, from which she
can make a warm bed for her cherished eggs.

It was a very pretty sight to see Lily on her nest, almost covered by
the straw, her head turned back, and her broad yellow bill partially
hidden beneath her wing.

The down lay scattered about like snow-flakes. She looked patient and
hopeful, as she opened her eyes to see who had intruded on her
solitude.

When a sitting-duck goes in search of food, she acts so queerly that
you would surely laugh to see her, if you are not accustomed to her
odd ways. She bends her head back, and draws it close to her body,
and waddles about in the greatest haste, quacking all the time.

Lily waited four weeks before the ducklings appeared. Some of
the brood were of a straw-colour, and some were marked with spots of
black. They were all pretty. When I first saw them, they were partly
hidden beneath their mother. Their glossy bills and bright eyes were
visible, but they were afraid to venture from their shelter. They were
provided with water and food in the old rabbit-house, because, if they
followed their mother to the pond, the musk-rats would probably devour
some of them.

While the little ones remained with their mother, they were safe, but
when they became discontented, and wandered from home, they were
sometimes lost. The rats were their principal enemies, and those from
which they had most to fear. They were constantly lurking about to
catch the ducklings, and sometimes the defenseless little ones ran
directly into their deep holes, from which there was no possibility
of escape. Quite a number of Lily's family came to an untimely end in
this way.

When I saw them roving about in the high grass, seeking in vain to find
their way to their mother's presence, and hearing their calls for help,
and her answering cry of distress, I could but think of the dear
children who forget their mother's counsel, and leave her protection
before they are old enough to take care of themselves.

The ducklings, I observed, did not know who were their friends;
for, one day, when the prettiest of the brood had found a way out
of the rabbit-house, I thought I would catch it, and give it back
to its mother.

It was much alarmed, and Lily was in equal trouble. It ran away from me,
thinking, perhaps that I was a greater enemy than the rats, against which
it had probably been warned. Just as I was going to put my hand on it,
it hid itself in a rat-hole, from which there was no escape.
I could not rescue it, neither could its mother. The next morning, when
I went to look at the ducks, and give them their breakfast, there
lay the poor duckling, close by the fatal hole. The rat had brought it
out, and partly devoured it.

Children often think they know what is best for them quite as well, if not
better, than their parents, and when told not to do this or that,
they are not satisfied to obey quietly, but ask, "Why not?" I think
children may often be told why they are bidden to do this, or forbidden
to do that; but they should obey their parents promptly, whether they
know their reasons or not.

Sometimes there are reasons which children cannot understand, sometimes
there are reasons which it would not be wise to tell them, and sometimes
it is not convenient to give the why and the wherefore.
Children are commanded to obey their parents,--not the reasons their
parents may give them. The young ducks could not understand why their
mother did not wish them to go out of that enclosure. They could not
comprehend the dangers which surrounded them. They saw the birds
flying about in the air, and heard the hum of the bees as they were going
abroad for honey, or returning loaded to the hive, and they could not
understand why they might not wander about too. The red clover looked
very beautiful, and the white clover was so fragrant, they longed
to ramble in it. They thought their mother unnecessarily strict, because
she wished to keep them with her, instead of permitting them to
see all the pretty things of which they could now and then catch a
glimpse, as they peeped through the cracks of the rabbit-house.

Children sometimes feel unpleasantly because they are not permitted
to play in the street.

Ah!

they are as ignorant of danger as the poor ducklings and they are too
young to understand the peril to which they are exposed. Even if their
mother should explain it to them, they could realize but little about it.
It is by far the better way for children to feel that their mother
knows best, and to be satisfied that her reasons are good and sufficient
even if they do not know what they are.

I once heard a distinguished clergyman say he had always observed that
those persons who had learned to obey their parents promptly, most readily
yielded to the claims of God, and became converted, while those who had
always liked their own way had generally a long, severe struggle,
before they were willing to give up their sins, and oftentimes could
not make up their minds to do so, and, though deeply convicted,
remained impenitent.

It is a fearful thought that, if you form a habit of disobedience
to your parents, it may cost you the salvation of your soul.

PRAYING FOR RAIN.

It was the first of July.

There had been no rain for several weeks.
Every one feared there would be a drought.

The farmer looked anxiously upon his fields of corn, whose deep green
leaves had not yet begun to turn yellow, and upon the potatoes,
whose blossoms were still unwithered.

They could not long remain thus beautiful and thriving, if the refreshing
rain was withheld. The ground was so dry that, in hoeing the garden, no
moisture could be observed.

Mrs. Dudley talked with her children about the need of rain, and the
propriety of praying to our heavenly Father to water the earth, that
it might "bring forth and bud," and "give seed to the sower, and
bread to the eater." She told them how Elijah prayed for rain, after
there had been none in the land of Canaan for three years and six
months, and how God heard his prayer, "and the heaven gave rain, and the
earth brought forth her fruit."
This great drought was a judgment upon the people of Israel for their
sin in departing from God, and worshipping idols. There had been, in
consequence of this want of rain, a "sore famine." We read in the book
of Kings of one poor woman, who had only a handful of
meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse. When Elijah met her,
and asked her for water, and a morsel of bread, she told him this was
all she had, and that she was gathering two sticks, that she might
bake it for herself and her son, that they might eat and die! She
know not where to find any more food for herself or her child, and expected
to "pine away, stricken through for want of the fruits of the field," and
to die with hunger.

Elijah bid her not to fear, but go and do what she had said.

He asked her to make him a little cake first, and bring it to him, and
afterwards make one for herself and son. "For thus saith the Lord God
of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse
of oil fail, until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth."

It would not have been strange, if this widow of Zarephath had been
unwilling to divide her handful of meal with Elijah, or if she had
doubted the promise which was made to her, but she did not. She baked the
little cake for the stranger, and afterwards one for herself and her
boy, and there was plenty of meal and of oil left for another repast.
"She, and he, and her house, did eat of it many days." The barrel of
meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, till the Lord
sent rain upon the earth, and her wants could be supplied in the
usual way.

She did not lose the reward promised to those who give a cup of cold water
to the friends of God.

God does not willingly afflict the creatures he has made. He is a
gracious God, merciful, and of great kindness, and has compassion even
on the beasts of the field.

When Jonah complained that he spared Nineveh, because its inhabitants
humbled themselves before him, and turned from their evil way, after
having sent him to prophesy to them that in forty days it should be
overthrown, he said to Jonah, "Should I not spare Nineveh, that
great city, wherein are more than six-score thousand persons that
cannot discern between their right hand and their left; and also
much cattle?"
In this long drought in the land of Canaan, the cattle must have
suffered greatly, and many of them probably perished. Indeed, we
read that Ahab, the king of Israel, and Obadiah, the governor of
his house, searched the land for the fountains and brooks, to find
grass to save, the horses and mules alive, that they might not be
all lost.
God is a Father, and, like a tender, loving father, he removes his
chastisements so soon as they have produced the effect designed.
He was "grieved for the misery of Israel." He told Elijah he would
send rain. The prophet went to Ahab, who, when he saw him, asked,
"Art thou he that troubleth Israel?" Elijah answered, it was Ahab,
and his father's house, who troubled Israel, because they had
forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and worshipped Baalim.
Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel, and earnestly prayed for
rain. God had promised that he would send it, and Elijah no doubt
pleaded this promise, as he interceded with him. He directed his
servant to go where he could look towards the sea. He went and
looked, and said, "There is nothing." Elijah was not discouraged.
He knew God would remember his promise, and he sent him seven times
more.She even went with Mrs.
Johnny on shopping tours and abetted her as her fancies, desires and
expenditures ran riot. It was a mood of irresponsibility--almost of
defiant irresponsibility.

Now was the nascent day of the country club. Several of these welcome
institutions had lately set themselves up in a modest, tentative way.
Acceptance was complete, and all they had to do was to grow. With one of
these McComas cast his lot. At the start it was a simple enough affair;
but Johnny must have sensed its potentialities and savored its
affinities, its coming congruity with himself. It was to become,
shortly, a club for the suddenly, violently rich, the flushed with
dollars, the congested with prosperity--for newcomers who had met
Success and beaten her at her own game. Stir on all hands, the reek of
sudden felicity in the air. In later years people with access to better
things of similar sort were known to become indignant when asked to
associate themselves with it. "Why should _I_ want to join _that_?" was
the question they put. But it pleased Johnny McComas, both by its
present manifestations and its latent possibilities. It was richly in
unison with his own nature, and I believe he had a ravishing vision of
its magnificent futurities.

Last year my wife and I were taken to a Sunday afternoon concert out
there. We found a place of towers and arcades, of endless corridors
planted with columns and numberless chairs in numberless varieties, of
fountained courts, of ball-rooms, of concert-halls, of gay apparel and
cool drinks. We heard of fairs, horse-shows, tournaments in golf and
tennis. The restaurant, with its acre of tables, glassed and naperied;
the ranges of telephone booths, all going it together; the cellars, a
vast subterrene, with dusky avenues of lockers, each cluttered with
beverages of individual predilection--though I suppose that, after all,
they were a good deal alike....

Well, it was too much for us; and my Elsie, who is essentially the lady,
if woman ever was, came away feeling a little dowdy and a good deal out
of date.

At that earlier period, however, it was still simple; the germ was
there, but the development of its possibilities had only begun. When
Mrs. McComas invited Mrs. Prince to drive out with her and see some
tennis, Mrs. Prince was quite ready to accept.

I do not know just what mode of locomotion they employed. It was in the
early days of the automobile and Johnny McComas was one of the first men
in town to have one. I recall, in fact, some of his initial experiences
with it. On a Sunday afternoon I encountered him in one of these still
relatively unstudied contraptions on a frequented driveway. Another man
was sitting beside him patiently. The conveyance was making no progress
at all. Fortunately it had stopped close enough to the curb not to
interfere with the progress of other and more familiar equipages.

"We're stuck," said Johnny, jovially, as he caught sight of me. "Ran for
three or four miles slick as a whistle--and look at us now!" It
entertained him--a kink in a new toy. And he enjoyed the interest of the
people collected about.

"You're gummed up, I expect," said I. In those days nobody knew much
about the new creature and its habits, and one man's guess was as good
as another's. Two or three bystanders eyed me deferentially, as a
probable expert.

"Likely enough," he agreed--and that made me an expert beyond doubt.
"But this will do for to-day. We've been here twenty minutes."

He had the car pushed to a near-by stable, amidst the mixed emotions of
the little crowd, and next day he had it hauled home.

"You were right," he said, when I met him out again in it, a week later.
"It _was_ gummed up, so to speak; but it's working like a charm to-day.
Get in and I'll take you a few miles. That other fellow got an awful
grouch."

It may have been by this machine, or by some more familiar mode of
locomotion, that the two women reached the country club and its tennis
tournament. Gertrude Prince strolled through its grounds and galleries
with the aloof and amused air of one touring through a foreign town--a
town never seen before and likely to be left behind altogether within an
hour or two. It was at once semi-smart and semi-simple. She took it
lightly, even condescendingly; and when Johnny McComas himself appeared
somewhat later and set them down at a little marble table near a
fountain-jet and offered cocktails as a preliminary to a variety of
sandwiches, she decided, after looking about and seeing a few other
ladies with glasses before them on other little marble tables, to
accept. It was a lark in some town of the provinces--Meaux or Melun;
what difference did it make?

They formed a little group altogether to Johnny's liking. His wife was
dressed dashingly; his wife's guest made a very fair second; he
himself, although he never lifted a racquet, was in the tennis garb of
that day.

"You both look ripping," he declared with hearty satisfaction. To look
thus, before competing items in the throng, was the object of the place,
the reason for its developing _mise en scène_.

Johnny himself looked ripping--cool, confident, content, and at the top
of his days.

"It was amusing...." said Gertrude to me, with an upward inflection, a
week later.

And she asked me for more about Johnny McComas.


II

If those were days when people began to combine for the pursuit of
pleasure, they were also days when people began to gather at the call of
public duty. If clubs were forming on the borders, other clubs, leagues,
societies were forming nearer the centre--organizations to make
effective the scattered good-will of the well-disposed and to gain some
betterment in the local political life. To initiate and conduct such
movements only a few were needed; but the many were expected to
contribute, if not their zeal and their time, at least their dollars. It
was patriotic righteousness made easy: a man had only to give his fifty
dollars or his five hundred to feel, without further personal exertion,
that he was a good citizen and was forwarding, as all good citizens
should, a worthy cause. This way of doing it fell in wonderfully well
with Raymond's temperament and abilities (or lack of them): the
liberality of his contributions did not remain unknown, and he was
sometimes held up as a favorable specimen of the American citizen.

Another movement was soon to engage his attention. If the prosperous
were to have their playgrounds beyond the city's outskirts, the less
prosperous should have theirs within the city's limits. The scheme of a
system of small parks and playgrounds quite took Raymond's fancy. It
contained, besides the idea of social amelioration, the even more
grateful idea of municipal beautification. In time, indeed, might not
this same notion, fortified by experience and given a wider
application, end by redeeming the town not merely in spots but in its
entirety?--a saved and graced whole, not only as to its heart, but as to
its liberal and varied borders of water, woodland and prairie.

"I should be proud of that," said Raymond heartily. The name of such a
city, following one's own name on any hotel-register, would indeed be a
matter for pride.

He attended several of the early meetings that were designed to get some
such project, in its simpler form, under way. He had friends among
professional men in the arts, and some acquaintances among newly formed
bodies of social workers. He was not slow in perceiving that the way was
likely to be tedious and hard. It called for organization--the
organization of hope, of patience, of hot, untiring zeal, of _finesse_
against political chicane, of persistence in the face of indifference
and selfishness. "It will take years of organized endeavor," he
confessed. He recognized his own ineffectiveness beyond the narrow pale
of hopeful suggestion, and wished that here too the giving of a
substantial sum--a large penny-in-the-slot--might produce quick and
facile results.

His wife, it is to be feared, looked upon these activities of his,
however slight, with a lack-lustre eye. She knew nothing of local
problems and local needs. She was conscious of a hortatory manner in
small matters and of indifference, which she almost made neglect, in
matters that appeared to her to be larger. If she asked for a fairer
share in his evenings--he belonged to a literary club, a musical
society, and so on--it was scant consolation to be told that he objected
to some of her own activities and associations. He did not much care,
for example, to have her "run" with the McComases and others of that
type or to have her dawdle over glasses, tall, broad, or short, in
places of general democratic assemblage; and he told her so. I believe
it was about here that she began to find him something of a prig and a
doctrinaire; and she was not incapable, under provocation, of mentioning
her impressions. Their presence is not regarded as a restraint;
for, at all suitable times, they have freely permitted their little
ones to laugh and frolic to their hearts' content. They willingly listen
to all the plans of the birdlings, and lend an attentive ear to the story
of their joys and their sorrows. Their sympathy is never withheld;
their griefs are never considered as of no consequence because they are
brief and soon forgotten.

The parent birds do not leave their young alone but a little while at
a time. They often fly home to see them, and sometimes perch on the
walnut-tree, and talk with them. Their musical chirpings are pleasant to
hear. We don't understand the bird-language; but we judge, by the
soft tones, that it is something kind and agreeable they are
saying.
Perhaps they are talking about their plans for the future, when
they all know how to use their wings, and can fly about together.

Very often, during the day, the robins bring worms to fill the gaping
mouths. It is surprising how much they eat. No wonder they have grown
plump and large, for they eat and sleep as much as they please. We
expect soon to see them flying about from tree to tree, and hopping along
the ground. We hope that great cat, which steps about so softly, will
never find them. She is welcome to all the rats and mice she can put
her paws on, but we never like to see her climb a tree, for we fear she
will destroy some of our cheerful friends, who build near the house
in full confidence that they shall not be disturbed.

The young robins are not lonely in their rural home. The plainly-dressed
sparrows and the brilliant yellow-birds look in upon them, and,
now and then, their cousin, the oriole, comes, clad in the richest
golden plumage, and sings them a song.

If he had dipped his feathers in the gorgeous sunset he could not be
more beautiful. The delicate little humming-birds sip nectar from
the deep horns of the honeysuckle; and the red-winged starling,
in his glossy black coat, and his dashing scarlet epaulette, occasionally
comes from his home in the meadow, to make them a call. He does not
like Honeysuckleville quite as well as his dwelling in the grass, just
above the water. If he was not so confirmed in his habits, I think he
would be strongly tempted to become a neighbour of the robins. A
few weeks ago, when his favourite resort was five or six feet under
water, he and his friends seemed to be in great uncertainty what
course to pursue. They had several mass meetings on the quince-bushes,
in full sight of Honeysuckleville, and a great many speeches were made.
It sounded to me like incessant chattering, and as if all were talking
at the same time. I could not understand a word they said, and I
cannot tell you the result of their deliberations. Whatever it may
have been, when the water subsided, they returned to their old haunts
by the river-side.

These I have mentioned are not the only visitors whose society our
friends enjoy. The swallows gracefully skim through the air, and
greet them with their merry voices. The wren often favours them with
one of his sweetest melodies, and the blue-bird flies around the corner
to sing a song on the walnut-tree. He has a curious little nest of his
own, hidden away under the eaves. The cat-birds, of course, are always
near, as they live in the lilacs. The oriole has suspended his nest,
like a basket, from a limb of the great pear-tree; and when the robins
know how to fly, they can return some of his visits.

The old robins, now and then, play peep with the young birds.

They fly almost up to the nest, and poise themselves for an instant on
the wing, just long enough to say, "Bo-peep!" and then away!

almost before they can be seen.

Pretty soon they return again, generally bringing some nice morsel with
them. They often first alight on a small branch of the vine, below the
nest, and then hop up to it.

What a chirping the birdlings keep up with their mother! They like to
talk as well as Eddie Dudley and some other children, whom I have heard
pleasantly called little chatter-boxes. Children have much to learn,
and must ask many questions.

The world is new and strange to them, and is a constant source of
surprise and wonder. I do not suppose people ever learn faster than
before they are six years old, or ever learn more in the same
length of time. They are constantly observing, and in this way the
stock of their ideas is continually increasing. I once heard a gentleman
say he did not like to go through the world with his head in a bag.
He wished to see what was taking place around him, and it was this seeing,
and thinking upon what he saw, that, among other things, made him a
distinguished man.

The young birds are now seeing and thinking, as well as birds
can.

Their time for action has not come. Like dear children in their happy
homes, they are preparing for the responsibilities of life; and,
if they honour and obey their parents, as far as birds are expected
to do, and as all children should, I doubt not they will faithfully
perform the duties which will hereafter devolve upon them.

From observations I have made, I conclude the robins neither send
their children to school nor employ a governess for them.

They have so made their arrangements that either one or the other
has time to attend to their education.

Sometimes the father, and at other times the mother, assumes the labour
of teaching, and their dearly-loved pupils are quite as
attentive to their instructions as any children I have ever
seen.

CHAPTER VI.

GOING ABROAD.

It was on a bright, warm, breezy morning in early June, that our friends
at Honeysuckleville decided that the home education of their children had
been attended with such success as to encourage the hope that they
would "come out" creditably to themselves, and their parents. Arrangements
were accordingly made, and I assure you there was much talking and
no little excitement and bustle upon the occasion. It was proposed to
spend some weeks in travelling, that the young people might enjoy
themselves, and acquire much useful information, which could be
obtained no other way.

The weather was delightful. A few light, fleecy clouds were floating
in the blue sky, continually changing from one form of beauty to another.
The sun shone forth in his splendour, cheering the tender grass and the
up-springing seeds, and drawing them nearer and nearer to
his bosom. They stretched toward him their feeble blades and diminutive
leaves, as if they would gladly be clasped in his arms; but their growing
roots were striking deeper and deeper into mother earth, and binding
them closer and closer to her.

The gentle, cooling zephyrs were playing among the leaves, and winning
sweet music from the tiny voices, which responded in glee to their
salutations. Often they lifted the soft hair from the brows of the
children, and frolicked amid their curls, and fanned their sun-burnt
cheeks.

It was a morning which all nature enjoyed. There could not have been
a finer day to start upon a journey. As birds do not need a change of
dress, there was no trunk to pack, and no travelling-bag to be laden
with comforts. All the preparation necessary was the usual attention
to the toilet, and the instruction and advice which the exigency
required.

The hearts of the young adventurers fluttered with excitement. There
was a mingling of curiosity to visit the great world of which they had
heard such glowing descriptions, and of fears to trust themselves to the
power of their wings to bear them from their pleasant, happy home, and
keep them out of harm's way. They had seen Pussy, as she walked about
in her white and black robe, and though she seemed so gentle, they
had been warned against her as one of their most deadly enemies.

They knew she was often prowling about, with stealthy tread, to prey upon
the unwary. They feared that, instead of flying to the walnut-tree, as
was the plan, they should fall upon the grass, where she could pounce
upon them and destroy them, notwithstanding the screams and agonizing
entreaties of their parents. Puss is a full believer in the doctrine
that "might makes right;" and she is as unmoved by the cries and appeals
of her victims as if they had no hearts to suffer, and were made merely
for her own use.

Many words of encouragement were addressed to them by their parents.
They told them how they themselves had suffered from similar fears; how
difficult it was for them to trust implicitly in the wisdom of their own
father and mother; and how they stood, tremulous and fearful, on the top
of the nest, wishing they had sufficient resolution to obey, and yet
fearing to venture; but how easy and pleasant they found it to spread
their wings in the air, and be borne up by it, when they fully
determined to make the attempt.

Our little birdlings still hesitated, just as I have seen children hesitate
and quiver with terror when for the first time they go into the water to
learn to swim. They know their father tells them the truth, for he has
never deceived them. He has bound a life-preserver beneath their arms,
and has promised to remain near, to catch them, if they begin to sink;
yet they are afraid, and draw back. They lack faith.

When at last they timidly push from the shore, and find themselves
buoyed up on the water, their delight is almost unbounded, and they
are as unwilling to leave as they were reluctant to enter it.

The old robins stood on one of the branches of the walnut-tree, and
endeavoured to persuade their timid brood to come to them.

They were not stern and severe, for they had not forgotten their own
youth, and they sympathized deeply with these children; but the
father found he must be decided, so he told them, (as it seemed,)
authoritatively, that they must hesitate no longer. He would count
one--two--three; and when he said three, they must spread their
wings and do as well as they could.

The mother smiled lovingly upon them, and they determined to obey,
whatever effort it might cost.

"One--two--three," counted the robin, in his full, musical tones.
The birdlings fluttered their wings, and strained every nerve
to alight by the side of their parents. With what joy they felt their
feet clinging round the branch!
How elated they were with their success! They chirped continually, and
merry and brisk was the conversation. "What is this?" one asked, and
"What is that?"

said another, till it seemed as if the old birds would be weary of their
questions; but they never lost their patience; they thought the little
folks remarkably intelligent.

When they were rested, away flew the birds to the elm, and called to their
young. Grown courageous by success, they quickly followed, and, through
the whole day, they were flying about from tree to tree, enjoying
themselves highly.

At sunset, I saw them on the locust-tree, near the cottage, inhaling
its delicious perfume, with their faces toward the west, wondering,
perhaps, what occasioned all that glorious beauty, as the sun
escaped from their view.

Presently they flew to a great cherry-tree, and, from the chirping and
calling, we concluded they spent the night in its shelter. How strange
it must have been to them, this first night of their perching! The
sky was clear, the stars twinkled, and the half-moon shed her silvery
light on the earth, and gleamed through the cherry-leaves, as it
had done through the honeysuckles; but it was not home, that cherry-tree,
and they sighed as they thought of their birthplace. They sat close
to their mother's side, and felt that, after all, where she was,
was the best place for them.

They curled up one foot into the soft down, and turned back their heads
till their bills were beneath their wings. The lids slowly closed
over their eyes, and they slept quietly and sweetly, till wakened in the
morning by the warbling of songsters who welcomed the rosy dawn.

A new sense of responsibility filled their hearts.

They were no longer mere children, their every want supplied by others;
but they were youth, and must begin to provide for themselves, and
depend upon their own energies.

We frequently hear the young robins among the trees, but we seldom see
them.

We really miss them, and think of them as pleasant visitors who have
been spending a few days with us.

We hope that Honeysuckleville will not be forsaken; but that every year
the birds will return, and rear their young beneath its fragrant
shade, making hearts of the little Dudleys glad, and teaching them
to love.

"All things, both great and small; For the dear God who loveth us, Hath
made and loveth all."
[Illustration]

"MAY I POP SOME CORN?"

"May I pop some corn?" asked Eddie.

"Yes," answered his mother; and laying down her work, she went to
the closet and got for him several small ears--some red and some
white--the kernels of which where not half so large as those of
common corn.

Eddie took a white bowl and sat down on the carpet by his mother
with the tiny ears in his apron.

He worked away for some time, shelling first one ear and then another,
till every little kernel was in the bowl, and nothing but cobs left.
These he thought would help to build a "log-house," so he put them in
his play-box, with those he had treasured before, and took his
bowl to the kitchen.

Kate, the cook, was a coloured woman, and she loved children. When he
said to her, "Mother told me I might pop some corn," she cheerfully
placed the iron pan on the stove, and when it was hot enough, told him
he might put in the corn. Pretty soon it went Pop! pop! pop! till the
pan was filled with snow-white kernels. Eddie always wondered how they
could turn inside out and suddenly grow so large. He did not understand
that it was because of the expansion or swelling of the air within
the hard case, which then burst open to find more room.

[Illustration: Eddie popping corn.]
Eddie was very busy for some time in the kitchen attending to his corn.
When it was all done, he separated that which was popped from that
which was only parched, and put it in different dishes.

He gave his dog Philo some of the brown kernels, and he seemed to like
them as well as Eddie himself. Eddie enjoyed hearing him crack them with
his sharp teeth, and would stroke his great head, and say kindly,
"Poor Philo! you are a good Philo;" and the dog would wag his tail
as much as to say, "Dear Eddie! you are a good Eddie."
After giving Philo his share, and Kate hers, Eddie carried up a large
dishful to his mother and the children. He did not wish to eat it
all himself for he was a generous boy and always liked to have others
partake of his pleasures, whatever they might be. He reserved some of
the nicest of it in a tumbler, which he placed on his mother's
work-table.

Mrs. Dudley took a little, saying to him,
"If you miss your corn, Eddie, you will know what has become of it."
He looked up from his play quite soberly, and said slowly, "Mother,
if _you_ wish to eat more you may, but _I_ am not going to."

"Why not, my child?"
"I am going to save it for father."
Mrs. Dudley was pleased to see Eddie willing to deny himself to give
to others, so she said to him, "That is right." When his father came
home from his business, Eddie placed the tumbler beside his plate
on the tea-table. After the blessing was asked, Mr. Dudley, looking
at the children, inquired, "Where did this come from?" "I popped it,"
answered Eddie. And his father thanked him with a kind and loving
smile.

Eddie was much happier than if he had eaten all the corn himself,
for he had made others happy by his generosity. "It is more blessed to
give than to receive," the Bible tells us; and Eddie had been learning
this truth in the great pleasure he felt in dividing his popped corn
with others. I hope you who read this story know how to sympathize with
him. If you do not, will you try the experiment, and see if you
are not far happier to share your corn, or your candy, or whatever
else you may have, with your brothers and sisters, and those around
you, than you are to devour it yourself?

I have seen little chickens seize their favourite morsel and run away and
hide where they could eat it all alone; but I should be sorry to
think that any child would do so.

"WHICH WOULD YOU RATHER I SHOULD DO?"

"Which would you rather I should do?" asked Eddie of his mother, his
large blue eyes filling with tears.

"I should rather you would stay with me," was the answer.

"Then I will, mother!" and the tears remained where they were, and did
not chase each other down his plump cheeks. A trembling smile played
around his mouth; for he had conquered himself, and had readily
yielded to his mother's wishes. There had been a struggle, severe, but
short, in his mind, and when he said, "Then I will, mother," he meant he
could be happy to stay at home, and would not ask again for permission
to go with the other children. Mrs. Dudley could not resist the impulse
to clasp him to her heart, and tell him he was a good boy; and this
made him still happier. He saw he had pleased her, and her approving
smile was worth more to him than any enjoyment could be without
it.

Eddie, you know, is a little boy, five years old. He has brothers
and sisters older than himself, and they have fine sport in sliding and
skating. Their teacher takes them every day to enjoy it, and they come
home in high spirits, swinging their skates by their sides, and talking
loud and fast about it.

Eddie has watched them many days from the nursery window, and has longed
to be with them; but his careful mother has feared he would get hurt
among so many skaters, or perhaps be lost in one of those "air-holes"
which are often found in the most solid ice; so when Eddie asked her if
he might go to the river, she hesitated, for she did not like to
deny him. "Which would you _rather_ I would do?" then inquired the
dear boy; and when his mother told him, he did not tease her, but resumed
his place at the window.

Mrs. Dudley resolved to go herself with her little son to the river,
when the children went again.

She did not tell him so, however; but the next day, when the merry
skaters were in the midst of their enjoyment, she put on her hood,
and her warm blanket-shawl, and thick gloves, and calling Eddie to her,
wrapped him in his wadded coat and woollen tippet, and placing on his
head his "liberty-cap,"--knit of red and black worsted, with a
tassel dangling from the point--and pulling it well down over his
ears, and covering his fat hands with warm mittens, they started
out on the white snow.

The snow was frozen sufficiently to bear them, and they had a
pleasant walk above the hidden grass and stones.

Eddie was in great glee.

His mother enjoyed it almost as much as he did, for it was an
exhilarating sight.

Some of the boys were sliding, some skating, and others pushing
sleds before them, on which a mother or sister were sitting.

It reminded one of the pictures we often see of skating in
Holland; and, to make the resemblance more perfect, a Dutchman was there
with his pipe, defiling the pure, fresh air with its foul odour.

Mrs.

Dudley was invited to take a ride, and, leaving Eddie in the care of
another, she was soon seated on one of the sleds, and speeding away
before a rapid skater. She found it far more swift and agreeable
than riding in the usual way. Eddie, too, had a ride, and his little heart
was brimfull of happiness. He walked about on the ice quite carefully
and fearlessly.

The river, on which these children were, rises and falls with the tide.
Eddie saw other boys sliding off towards an icy meadow bordering
on it, and he thought he would go too. The ice formed an inclined
plane; his feet slipped on its smooth surface, and down he went;
he jumped up, but the blood from his nose, flowing over his face
and coat, and staining the snow, frightened him, and he uttered a
loud cry. The skaters were with him before his mother, though she
was but a few steps away, for she could not move as quickly as they.
It was pleasant to see their sympathy, and hear their kind inquiries.
His mother soon comforted him; for he had not been cut by the ice
as they feared. The blood from his nose testified to a pretty hard
bump. He soon forgot the pain, and was as happy as ever. He will
long remember his first sled ride on the river.
Why do you think, dear children, I have told you this story about
a child whom you have never seen? I wanted to ask you, or rather
have you ask yourselves, if you are willing, as Eddie was, to do
as your mother thinks best? Much as he wanted to go on the river,
he felt satisfied to do as his mother wished. I hope, when you know
what your mother prefers, you will make up your minds to give up
your own plans, and be happy in doing so.
I am not one of those who imagine children have no trials. I know
their lives are not all bright and sunny. I have not forgotten being
a child myself. Many a hard battle has to be fought with wrong
feelings and wrong wishes; but never fear; resolve to conquer
yourselves, and subdue every thing that is sinful.Yet suppose
I were to observe, just here, that Marriage makes a promise to the ear
and breaks it to the hope; or that Divorce is the martyr's crown after
the tortures of Incompatibility; or that Marriage is the Inferno, the
Divorce-Court the Purgatory, and Divorce itself the Paradiso of human
life? You would not be likely to think the better of me, and I should
certainly think less well of myself. Though I am conscious of a homespun
quality of thought and diction, I must keep within the limits set me by
nature, eschewing "brilliancy" and continuing to deal not in abstract
considerations but in concrete facts.

Little Albert spent a good part of his time in a condition of
bewilderment; he perceived early that he must not ask questions, that he
must not try to understand. At intervals he ran noisily through the big
house and made it seem emptier than ever. A nurse, or governess, or
attendant of some special qualifications was required--even for the
short time before he should begin his month with his mother, who was
spending some months with her parents in the East. Even the
preliminaries for this small event occasioned considerable thought and
provoked a reluctant correspondence. His mother--prompted probably by
her own mother--wrote on the subject of Albert's summer clothes. She
wished to buy most of them herself. The Eastern climate in summer had
its special points; also local usage in children's costuming must be
considered--in detailed appearance her child must conform measurably to
that particular juvenile society in which he was to appear. Then there
was the nurse, or governess. Should Albert be brought on by her? And
should she, once in the East, remain there to take him back; or...?

"Oh, the devil!" cried Raymond, in his library, as he turned page after
page of diffuse discourse. "How long is she going to run on? How many
more things is she going to think of?"

And she had felt impelled to address him, despite the cool tone of her
letter, as "Dear Raymond." And that seemed to put him under the
compulsion of addressing her, in turn, as "Dear Gertrude"! Truly, modes
of address were scanty, inadequate.

Well, Albert went East (wearing some of the disesteemed things he
already possessed) to be outfitted for the summer shores of New Jersey.
His governess took him as far as Philadelphia, where the Eastern
connection met him, and "poored" him, sent the woman back home, and took
him out on the shining sands. During the child's absence she made covers
for the drawing-room sofas and chairs; the house, bereft of Albert and
draped in pale Holland, became more dismal than ever.

Raymond, now left alone, was free to devise a way of life in single
harness. He liked it quite as well as the other way. He told himself,
and he told me, that he liked it even better. I believe he did; and I
believe he was relieved by the absence of Albert, whose little daily
regimen, even when directed by competent assistance, had begun to grind
into his father's consciousness. I even believe that the one serious
drawback in Raymond's comfortable summer was the need of studying over a
school for Albert in the fall.

Raymond spent much of his time among his books. He had long since given
up trying to "write anything"; less than ever was he in a mood to try
that sort of exercise now. He looked over his shelves and resolved that
he would make up a collection of books for the Art Museum. They were to
be books on architecture, of which he had many. The Museum library, with
hundreds of architectural students in and out, had few volumes in
architecture, or none. He visioned a Raymond Prince alcove--those boys
should be enabled to learn about the Byzantine buildings, just then
coming into their own; and about the Renaissance in all its varieties,
especially the Spanish Plateresque. He had a number of expensive and
elaborate publications which dealt with that period, and with others,
and he resolved to add new works from outside. He resumed his habit of
going to book-auctions (though little developed at them), dickered with
local dealers who limited themselves to a choice clientèle, and sent to
London for catalogues over which he studied endlessly. He would still
play the rôle of patron and benefactor. Perhaps he foresaw the time when
the Museum would recognize donors of a certain importance by bronze
memorial tablets set up in its entrance hall. Well, he would make his
alcove important enough for any measure of recognition. It was all a
work which interested him in its details and which was more in
correspondence than a larger one with his present means.


II

Before my wife and I left for an outing on the seaboard, news came from
that quarter about Gertrude and Albert. Intelligence even reached us,
through the same correspondent, regarding Mrs. Johnny McComas. Mrs.
Johnny, with her three children, was frequenting the same sands and the
same board walk. It was possible to imagine the arrangement as having
been suggested by Raymond's one-time wife. See it for yourself. Mrs.
Raymond and Mrs. Johnny slowly promenading back and forth together, or
seated side by side beneath their respective parasols or under some gay
awning shared in common, while their authentic children played about
them. What if people--whether friends, acquaintances, or
strangers--_did_ say, "She is divorced"? There she was, with her own son
plainly beside her and her closest woman friend giving her complete
countenance. If a separation, who to blame? The husband, doubtless. In
fact, there was already springing up in her Eastern circle, I was to
find, the tradition of a dour, stiff man, years too old, with whom it
was impossible to live.

It is unlikely that Gertrude, at any time--even at this time--would have
been willing to rank Mrs. Johnny as her closest friend. But Mrs. Johnny
had spoken a good word for her in a trying season, and at the present
juncture her friendly presence was invaluable. She could speak a good
word now--she was, so to say, a continuing witness. The two, I presume,
were seen together a good deal, along with the children, especially
Albert; and Mrs. Johnny, coöperating (if unconsciously) with Gertrude's
mother, did much to stabilize a somewhat uncertain situation.

It was the understanding that Mrs. Johnny was in rather poor health this
summer; the birth of her little daughter had left her a different woman,
and the tonic of the sea-air was needed to remake her into her
high-colored and energetic self. There was nothing especially reviving
in the Wisconsin lakes, to which (placid inland ponds) they had confined
their previous summer sojourns: and the vogue of the fresher resorts
farther north on the greater lakes had not yet reached them. This year
let the salt surf roll and the salt winds blow.

My wife and I, in our Eastern peregrinations, passed a few days at the
particular beach frequented by the two mothers. We really found in Mrs.
Johnny's aspect and carriage some justification for the incredible
legend of her poor health. She walked with less vigor than formerly and
was glad to sit down more frequently; and once or twice we saw her
taking the air at her bedroom window instead of on the broad walk before
the shops. Her boys played robustly on the sands, and would play with
Albert--or rather, let him play with them--if urged to. But, like most
twins, they were self-sufficing; besides, they were several years older.
To produce the full effect of team-work between the families required
some perseverance and a bit of manoeuvring. The little girl was hardly
two.

Gertrude and her mother welcomed us rather emphatically--too
emphatically, we felt. The latter offered us politic lunches in the
large dining-room of their hotel, and laid great stress upon our
_provenance_ when we met her friends on the promenade. We seemed to be
becoming a part of a general plan of campaign--pawns on the board. This
shortened our stay.

The day before we left, Johnny McComas himself appeared. He had found a
way to leave his widely ramifying interests for a few odd hours. A man
of the right temperament gains greatly by a temporary estival
transplantation; and if Johnny always contrived to seem dominant and
prosperous at home, he now seemed lordly and triumphant abroad. He
"dressed the part": he was almost as over-appropriately inappropriate as
little Albert himself. He played ostentatiously with his boys on the
sands, and did not mind Albert as one of their eye-drawing party. He,
whether his wife did or no, responded fully and immediately to the salt
waves and the salt winds.

"Immense! isn't it?" he said to me, throwing out his chest to the breeze
and teetering in his white shoes, out of sheer abundance of vitality, on
the planks beneath him.

There was only one drawback: his wife was really not well. And he
wondered audibly to me, while my own wife was having a few words near by
with Gertrude, how it was that a young woman could, within the first
year of her married life, bear twins with no hurt or harm, and yet
weaken, later, through the birth of a single child.

"She doesn't seem at all lively, that's a fact," he said, with a
possible touch of impatience. "But another two weeks will do wonders for
her," he added: "she'll go back all right."

Prepotent Johnny! No doubt it was a drain on vitality to live abreast of
such a man, to keep step with his robustious stride.

On the forenoon of the day we left, Johnny was walking with Gertrude and
her mother along the accepted promenade. His excess of vitality and of
action gave him an air of gallantry not altogether pleasing to see. His
wife sat at her window, looking down and waving her hand rather
languidly. The Johnny of her belief had come, in part, assuredly, for a
bit of enjoyment. She smiled unconcernedly.


III

Raymond waited back home for Albert, and Albert did not return. We
gathered from a newspaper published near the shores of Narragansett Bay
that Albert, as his mother's triumphant possession, was now being shown
at another resort--and a more important one, judging by his
grandmother's social affiliations; also, that Mrs. McComas, who had not
done any too well on the Jersey shore, was appearing at the new
_plage_--doubtless as the just and sympathetic friend (of social
prominence in her own community) who had stood stanch through
difficulties unjustly endured. Her husband himself had, of course,
returned to the West.

His business called him, even in mid-summer. He had his bank, but he had
more than his bank. There are banks and banks--you can divide them up in
several different ways. There are, of course,--as we have seen,--the
banks that fail, and the banks that do not. And there are the banks that
exist as an end in themselves, and the banks that exist as a means to
other things: those that function along methodically, without taking on
any extraneous features; and those that serve as a nucleus for
accumulating interests, as a fulcrum to move affairs through a wide and
varied range. Of this kind was McComas's. Johnny was not the man to
stand still and let routine take its way--not the man to mark time, even
through the vacation season. Nor could he have done so even if he had
wanted to. But all I need say, just here, is that he came back home
again after three or four days, all told, and that any threatened
embarassment was nullified, or at least postponed.

Raymond heard in silence my account of the doings on the Atlantic shore:
only a wry twist of the mouth and a flare of the nostrils. But as the
weeks went on, and still no Albert, his anger became articulate.

"I shall teach her that an agreement is an agreement," he declared. "She
will never try this again."

Albert finally came home, three weeks late; his mother brought him
herself. The governess transferred him from the hands of one parent to
those of the other; and Raymond had asked my presence for that moment,
as a sort of moral urge.

"Who knows," he asked, "what delay she may try for next?"

He gave one look at the picturesque, if not fantastic, toggery of his
restored child.

"Did you ever see anything like that?" he said scornfully; and I foresaw
a sacrificial bonfire--or its equivalent--with Albert presently clothed
in sane autumn garb.

Albert was followed, within a week, by a letter from his mother. This
was diffuse and circumlocutory, like the first. But its general sense
was clear. If Raymond was thinking of putting Albert into a
boarding-school....

"There she goes again!" exclaimed the exacerbated father. "A matter with
which, by hard-and-fast agreement, she has absolutely nothing to do!"

However, if he was thinking of a boarding-school....

"A child barely seven!" cried Raymond. "Why, half of them will hardly
consider one of eight!"

Still, if he was thinking--well, Mrs. McComas knew of a charming one, an
old-established one, one in which the head-master's wife, a delightful,
motherly soul.... And it was just within the Wisconsin line, not forty
miles from town....

"I see her camping at the gate!" said Raymond bitterly. "Or taking a
house there. Or spending months at a hotel near by. Constantly fussing
round the edge of things. Running in on every visitors' day...."

"Likely enough," I said. "A mother's a mother."

"Well," rejoined Raymond, "the boy _shall_ go to school--in another
year. But the school will be a good deal more than forty miles from
here--no continual week-end trips. And it will not be in a town that has
an endurable hotel--that ought to be easy to arrange, in this part of
the world. No, it won't be near any town at all. I don't suppose she
would take a--tent?" he queried sardonically.

"To some mothers the blue tent of heaven would alone suffice," I
said--perhaps unworthily.

"Rubbish!" he ejaculated; and I felt that a word fitly spoken--or
perhaps unfittingly--was rebuked.


IV

In due season, Albert went off to school, according to his father's
plans; and it was not the school which Adele McComas had hoped to see
Albert enter a little before her own boys should leave it. Raymond,
after another year of daily attentions to Albert's small daily concerns,
was glad to have him away. He did not see his boy's mother a frequent
visitor at this school, nor did he purpose being a frequent visitor
himself. The establishment was approved, well-recommended: let it do its
work unaided, unhindered.

No, Adele McComas never saw Albert at the school of her predilection;
indeed, it was not long after the choice had been made that she lost all
opportunity of seeing anything at all. She withered out, like a
high-colored, hardy-seeming flower that belies all promise, and died
when her little girl was months short of four.

Her name was on the new monument within six weeks. It was the third
name. That of Johnny's father had lately been placed above that of his
mother, and that of his wife was now clearly legible upon the opposite
side of the shaft's base. Some of Johnny's friends saw in this
promptitude a high mark of respect and affection; others felt a haste,
almost undue, to turn the new erection into a bulletin of "actualities";
and a few surmised that had the work not been done with promptitude it
might have come to be done in a leisurely fashion that spelled neglect:
if it were to be done, 't were well it were done quickly--a formal token
of regard checked off and disposed of.

During Albert's first year at his school his mother made two or three
appearances. She was exigent, and she showed herself to the school
authorities as fertile in blandishments. The last of her visits was made
in a high-powered touring-car. Raymond heard of this, and warned the
school head against a possible attempt at abduction.

The second year opened more quietly. One visit--a visit without
eagerness and obviously lacking in any fell intent, and that was all.
It was fair to surmise that this once-urgent, once-vehement mother had
developed a newer and more compelling interest.

She had made herself a figure at Adele McComas's funeral--or, at least,
others had made her a figure at it. She began to be seen here and there
in the company of the widower, and it was reported privately to me that
she had been perceived standing side by side with him in decorous
contemplation, as it were in a sort of transient, elegiac revery _à
deux_, before the monument. It was no surprise, therefore, when we
heard, two months later, that they had married.

"That stable-boy!" said Raymond. "After--me!"

The expression was strong, and I did not care to assent.

Instead, I began:--

"And now, whatever may or may not have been, everything is--"

"Everything is right, at last!" he concluded for me.

"And if they--those two--are put in the right," he went on, "I suppose I
am put in the wrong--and more in the wrong than ever!"

He stared forward, across his littered table, beyond his bookcases,
through his thick-lensed glasses, as if confronting the stiffening
legend of a husband too old, too dry, too unpliable; the victim,
finally, of a sudden turn that was peculiarly malapropos and
disrelishing, the head of a household tricked rather ridiculously before
the world.

Reserve now began to grow on him. He simplified relationships and saw
fewer people. Before these, and before the many at a greater remove, he
would maintain a cautious dignity as a detached and individual human
creature, as a man,--however much, in the world's eyes, he might have
seemed to fail as a husband.


V

John W. McComas, at forty-five, was in apogee. His bank, as I have said,
was coming to be more than a mere bank; it was now the focus of many
miscellaneous enterprises. Several of these were industrial companies;
prospectuses bearing his name and that of his institution constantly
came my way. Some of these undertakings were novel and daring, but most
of them went through; and he was more likely to use his associates than
they were to use him. As I have said, he possessed but two interests in
the world: his business--now his businesses--and his family; and he
concentrated on both. It might be said that he insisted on the most
which each would yield.

He concentrated on his new domestic life with peculiar intensity. His
boys were away at a preparatory school and were looking forward to
college. He centred on his daughter, a future hope, and on his wife, a
present reality and triumph. Over her, in particular, he bent like a
flame, a bright flame that dazzled and did not yet sear. He was able, by
this time, to coalesce with the general tradition in which she had been
brought up--or at least with the newer tradition to which she had
adjusted herself; and he was able to bring to bear a personal power the
application of which she had never experienced. She found herself
handled with decision. She almost liked it--at least it simplified some
teasing problems. He employed a direct, bluff, hearty kindness; but
strength underlay the kindness, and came first--came uppermost--if
occasion seriously required. Life with Raymond had been a laxative, when
not an irritant; life with Johnny McComas became a tonic. She had felt
somewhat loose and demoralized; now she felt braced.

Johnny was rich, and was getting richer yet. He was richer, much, than
he had been but a few years before; richer than Raymond Prince, whose
worldly fortunes seemed rather to dip. Johnny could give his wife
whatever she fancied; when she hesitated, things were urged upon her,
forced upon her. She, in her turn, was now a delegate of luxury. He
approved--and insisted upon--a showy, emphatic way of life, and a more
than liberal scale of expenditure. He wanted to show the world what he
could do for a fine woman; and I believe he wanted to show Raymond
Prince.

Gossip had long since faded away to nothingness. If anybody had wondered
at Johnny's course--a course that had run through possible dubiousness
to hard-and-fast finality--the wonder was now inaudible. If anybody felt
in him a lack of fastidiousness, the point was not pressed. The marriage
seemed a happy solution, on the whole; and the people most
concerned--those who met the new pair--appeared to feel that a problem
was off the board and glad to have it so.

Raymond, on the eve of the marriage, had softened things for himself by
leaving for a few months in Rome. Back, he began to cast about for some
means of occupation and some way of making a careful assertion of his
dignity. At this time "society" was beginning to sail more noticeably
about the edge of the arts, and an important coterie was feeling that
something might well be done to lift the drama from its state of
degradation. Why not build--or remodel--a theatre, they asked, form a
stock company, compose a repertory, and see together a series of such
performances as might be viewed without a total departure from taste and
intelligence?

The experiment ran its own quaint course. The remodeling of the hall
chosen introduced the sponsors of the movement to the fire-laws and
resulted in a vast, unlooked-for expense. A good company--though less
stress was laid on its roster than on the list of guarantors--went
astray in the hands of a succession of directors, not always competent.
The subscribers refused to occupy their boxes more than one night a
week, and, later on, not even that: the space was filled for a while
with servitors and domestic dependents, and presently by nobody....

Raymond went into the enterprise. He put in a goodly sum of money that
never came back to him; and if he coöperated but indifferently, or
worse, he was not more inept than some of his associates. He was
displeased to learn that the McComases had given enough to the
guarantee-fund to insure them a box. And it offended him that, on the
opening night, his former wife, one of a large and assertive party,
should make her voice heard during intermissions (and at some other
times too) quite across the small auditorium. The situation was
generally felt to be piquant, and at the end of the performance people
in the lobby were amused (save the few who had the affair greatly at
heart) to hear Johnny McComas's comment on the play. It was a
far-fetched problem-play from the German, and Raymond had been one of
those who favored it for an opening.

"Did you ever see such a play in your life?" queried Johnny. "What was
it all about? And wasn't _he_ the fool!"

McComas--really caring nothing for the evening's entertainment either
way--could easily afford a large amount for social prestige, and his
wife for general social consolidation. It was little to Johnny that his
thousands went up in exacting systems of ventilation and in salaries for
an expensive staff; but it was awkward for Raymond to lose a sum which,
while absolutely less, was relatively much greater. After a few months
the scheme was dropped; the expensive installation went to the advantage
of a vaudeville manager; Raymond felt poorer, even slightly crippled,
and the voice of the present Mrs. Johnny McComas ran till the end
across that tiny _salle_.

This, I am glad to say, was the last of Raymond's endeavors to patronize
the arts.


VI

Albert's last year at his distant school ended rather abruptly. He came
home, ailing, about a month before the close of the school year. He was
thin and languid. He may have been growing too fast; he may have been
studying too hard; he may have missed the "delightful motherly soul" who
would have brooded over him at the school first proposed; or the
drinking-water may have been infected--_que sais-je_? Well, Albert moped
during much of May through the big house, and his mother heard of his
return and his moping, made the most of it, and insisted on a
visitation.

The child-element, of late, had not been large in her life. Her two tall
stepsons were flourishing in absence; she had had no second child of her
own; little Althea was nice enough, and she liked her pretty well....
But there was her own flesh and blood crying for her--perhaps. So she
descended on the old, familiar interior--familiar and distasteful--and
resumed with zeal the rôle of mother.

Her presence was awkward, anomalous. The servants were disconcerted, and
scarcely knew how to take her fluttery yet imperious orders. For Raymond
himself, as any one could see, it was all purgatory--or worse. Every
room had its peculiar and disagreeable memories. There was the
chamber-threshold over which they had discussed her tendency to out-mode
the mode and to push every extreme of fashion to an extreme still more
daring--for that black gown with spangles, or whatever, had been but the
first of a long, flagrant line. There was the particular spot in the
front hall, before that monumental, old-fashioned, black-walnut
"hat-rack," where he had cautioned more care in her attitude toward
young bachelors, if only in consideration of his own dignity, his
"face." There was the dining-room--yes, she stayed to meals, of course,
and to many of them!--where (in the temporary absence of service) he
had criticized more than once the details of her housekeeping and of her
menu--had told her just how he "wanted things" and how he meant to have
them. And in each case she had pouted, or scoffed, and had contrived
somehow to circumvent him, to thwart him, and to get with well-cloaked,
or with uncloaked, insistence her own way. Heavenly recollections! He
felt, too, from her various glances and shrugs, that the house was more
of a horror to her than ever, and, above all, that abominable
orchestrion more hugely preposterous.

Albert kept mostly to his room. It was the same room which Raymond
himself had occupied as a boy. It had the same view of that window above
the stable at which Johnny McComas had sorted his insects and arranged
his stamps. The stable was now, of course, a garage; but the time was on
the way when both car and chauffeur would be dispensed with. Parallel
wires still stretched between house and garage, as an evidence of
Raymond's endeavor to fill in the remnant of Albert's previous vacation
with some entertaining novelty that might help wipe out his recollection
of the month lately spent with his mother. Albert was modern enough to
prefer wireless--just then coming in--to "bugs" and postage-stamps; but
the time remaining had been short. Besides, Albert liked the theatre
better; and Raymond, during those last weeks in August, had sat through
many woeful and stifling performances of vaudeville that he might regain
and keep his hold on his son. His presence at these functions was
observed and was commented upon by several persons who were aware of the
aid he was giving for a bettered stage.

"Fate's irony!" he himself would sometimes say inwardly, with a sidelong
glance at Albert, preoccupied with knockabouts or trained dogs.

Albert spent some of his daylight hours in bed; some in moving about the
room spiritlessly. He looked out with lack-lustre eyes at the sagging
wires, and seemed to be wondering how they could ever have interested
him. His mother, as soon as she saw him, put him at death's door--at
least she saw him headed straight for that dark portal. She began to
insist, after a few days, that he go home with her: he would be hers, by
right, within a fortnight, anyhow. Her new house, she declared, would be
an immensely better place for him, and would immensely help him to get
well, if--with a half-sob--he ever _was_ to get well.

She knew, of course, the early legend of Johnny McComas, and had no wish
to linger in its locale.

"You _do_ want to go with your own, own mother--don't you, dear?"

"Yes," replied Albert faintly.

The town-house of Johnny McComas, bought at an open-eyed bargain and on
a purely commercial basis, had some time since fulfilled its predestined
function. It had been taken over, at a very good price, by an automobile
company; the purchasers had begun to tear it down before the last load
of furniture was fairly out, and had quickly run up a big block in
russet brick and plate glass. Gertrude McComas had had no desire to
inherit memories of her predecessor; if she had not urged the promptest
action her husband's plan might have given him a still more gratifying
profit.

They had built their new house out on the North Shore. At one time the
society of that quarter had seemed, however desirable to the McComases,
somewhat inaccessible. But the second wife was more likely to help
Johnny thitherward than the first. Besides, the participation of the new
pair in the scheme of dramatic uplift--however slight, essentially--had
made the promised land nearer and brighter. They might now transplant
themselves to that desired field with a certainty of some few social
relations secured in advance.

They had a long-reaching, rough-cast house, in a semi-Spanish style,
high above the water. They had ten acres of lawn and thicket. They had
their own cow. And there was little Althea--a nice enough child--for a
playmate.

"Let me get Albert away from all this smoke and grime," his mother
pleaded--or argued--or demanded, dramatically. "Let me give him the
pure country air. Let me give him the right things to eat and drink. Let
me look after his poor little clothes,--if" (with another half-sob) "he
is ever to wear them again. Let me give him a real mother's real care.
You _would_ like that better, wouldn't you, dear?"

"Yes," said Albert faintly.

It is quite possible, of course, that his school really had scanted the
motherly touch.

"You see how it goes!" Raymond finally said to me, one evening, in the
shadow of the orchestrion. "And what she will dress him in _this_
time...!"

The whole situation wore on him horribly. There was a light play over
his cheeks and jaws: I almost heard his teeth grit.

Do you pray to him daily for His blessing, and ask Him to keep you
from sin? Do you seek His forgiveness for all you have done that is
wrong?

So live, that when the angel of death comes for you, he may carry
you where Charley is, into the blessed home prepared for all who love
God.

_When_ He will come, you cannot know. Be always ready, and then
He will not find you unprepared.

[Illustration]

DARLING WILLIE.

Willie was an active little boy, just large enough to be dressed
in frock and pantaloons.

He was very affectionate, and everybody who knew him loved him.

When he left the green fields in the country, to come with his parents
to the city, he did not feel so happy as in his pleasant home by
the river side, where the wild birds sung to him, and where
he could watch the branches of the old elm swaying in the breeze.

It was autumn when he came to town, and there were no flowers in the
yard attached to his city home. The grass was brown and frost-bitten,
and soon the white snow came and covered it.

The stone walks were swept, and when it was not too cold, Willie could
ride around the little square, seated on his velocipede. In his mother's
parlour, he could make houses with his blocks, or stables for his
tin horses, and often he went out to walk or drive with his mother, who
always enjoyed taking him with her.

The winter passed away, and every month the strong cords of love
were binding him still more closely to the hearts of his friends.

Spring came--the fresh grass sprung up, and the dandelions opened their
blossoms in Willie's playground. How he loved to look at them! Those
blades of grass, and the yellow flowers, filled his heart with gladness.
His eyes sparkled, and he could scarcely stand still as he talked
about them.

Willie was, one day, sitting with his grandmother by the open
window.
The sun had just sunk below the horizon, and the clouds were gorgeously
tinted with his parting rays.

Some of them were of a rich golden hue, and others were dyed with rosy
light. It was an exceedingly beautiful sunset, and Willie, who loved
all nature, gazed for some time in silent admiration. Then, looking up
to his grandmother's face, and pointing to the west,
"See, grandmother," said he, "what a beautiful home Charley has!"
[Illustration: Willie was one day sitting with his grandmother by
the open window.]
Charley was Willie's little brother, whom the angels had taken from earth,
and carried to live with Jesus.

He thought Charley must have felt lonely when he first went to heaven;
but, as he would say, "now he has got acquainted, he is very happy."

Sometimes Willie would ask his mother, "Would you be lonesome without
me, mother?" It was always a pleasant thought to him that he might early
die and go to Jesus.

Willie liked to look at the blue sky. Perhaps it was because he
thought it was Charley's home. He watched every evening for the moon,
with her silvery light, and for the twinkling stars.

At one time, a cousin of his called to see him. He brought a basket with
him. Raising the cover, he said--
"Willie, come, look in my basket."
Willie came as requested.

"Oh! I know what it is! It is a rabbit for me!"
So it was. George opened the basket, and out jumped a white rabbit,
with pink eyes.

It was a beautiful animal. Willie capered with delight. He had a live
plaything, and it pleased him more than the velocipede, or his blocks,
or any of his toys.

Willie said he loved his cousin George for bringing him the rabbit,
and his cousin Walter for sending it to him. They were happy because
they had made him so happy.

Not long after this rabbit was added to Willie's amusements, very
sad tidings came to the home of George and Walter.

It was said that Willie was dead. It seemed scarcely possible--for it
was only a few days since he had sent a message of love to them.

Some member of the family immediately went to town, and called on
Willie's father. It was indeed true that Willie was not there!

He had gone to be with the angels. God had heard his prayer. Heaven was
a better, safer, happier place for him than even his pleasant home,
with his fond parents, and he was taken "right up there," as he
wished, to be with Charley.

Saturday evening Willie went to his bed in apparent health. Sabbath
morning he complained of not feeling entirely well, and on Wednesday he
laid aside his garment of mortality, and put on the beautiful robes
made white in the blood of the Lamb, in the spirit-world. He was a
lovely child when he dwelt with us here below; how very lovely he must
be in the bright world to which he has gone!

His mother often weeps when she thinks of him, and she misses him more
than any one but a mother can.

There is no one to play with his blocks, or his tin horses, or his
pretty rabbit.

Yet Willie is very happy, and his mother has no wish to recall him
to earth, lonely and desolate as is their once cheerful home.

Willie will shed no more tears. He will never feel sad or lonely. He
will suffer neither pain, nor hunger, nor weariness. But we, who love
him, may weep, as did Jesus when Lazarus lay in the grave; and we
shall never forget the sweet child, so full of life and love, who
was given us for a little while, and then taken home to glory.

Dear children, who read about Willie, are you prepared to follow him and
Charley, where they are gone to dwell with that Saviour who, when he
was on earth, took little children in his arms, and blessed them,
and said, "_of such is the kingdom of heaven_?"

[Illustration]

WIDOW CAHOON AND HER GRANDSON.

"I wish to make a call in ---- street," said a lady to me, as we together
were visiting some of the poor of the city. "There is a Mrs.
Smith living there, a poor old woman nearly eighty years old. She is
infirm and partially blind. She has a little grandson, and she has no
means with which to take care of him.

We hope to persuade her to give him to us, and let us find a good home,
by adoption, for him."
It was a warm winter's morning. Snow had fallen the day before, but
it was rapidly disappearing. The foot sank in the melting mass at
every step.

The crossings were muddy, and it required some skill to pick our way along
dry-shod.

We turned into the street, and sought for the number which had been given
us. We found it on the door of a low, shed-like building, old and
out of repair.

"Does Mrs. Smith live here?" we inquired.

"No, ma'am."
"Is there an old lady, who is almost blind, and who has a little grandson,
in the house?"--we further asked, thinking Mrs. Smith might not be known
by name.

"No, ma'am. There is no such person here."
"Does she live in the neighbourhood?"
"She may be in No. ----."
We made inquiries at several doors, dodging in quickly to avoid the
great drops which came pattering down on the pavement from the gutterless
eaves, but we could learn nothing of the object of our search.

At length we came to a grocery, and, stepping in by the mackerel barrels
which stood at the door, we repeated our inquiry--
"Can you tell us where Mrs. Smith lives? She is an old lady, almost blind,
and has a little grandson."
"Oh, yes! I know her well. She is a deserving, needy woman."
The man followed us to the street to point out the house where she
lived. As he was telling us, a woman passed by. He spoke to her,
saying,

"You know where Mrs. Smith lives--the old lady who is almost blind,
and who has a little grandson?"
"Yes."
"Will you show these ladies the place?"
"Yes."
She walked on with us till she came to a large tenement building, and
then directed us to a room in the upper story. We thanked her, and
entered the narrow hall, and passed up the still narrower staircase.

We knocked at the door, and were bidden to enter. The old lady was not
there. We inquired for her again, and learned that she had just
gone out. The woman said she would send for her.

A boy, ten or twelve years old, went to find her. While he was gone,
we talked with his mother,--a round-faced, good-natured, intelligent
Irish woman. We asked her where Mrs. Smith lived, and she said she was
most of the time with her. Poor woman! she had only a living-room and
a bed-room for herself and four children, yet she was willing to share
them with another as poor and more helpless than herself.

She was a widow, too, and had no one to depend upon.

Her husband died last spring. During the summer she had provided for
her family by washing and cleaning, but this winter she finds it
almost impossible to get work. One of the children is a babe, who was
lying on a rough, unpainted board-cradle, rudely put together by
some unaccustomed hand.
This infant had been taken care of during the summer by his brother,
not more than ten or twelve years old, while his mother was absent at
work. There was a little girl, about eight years old, who attends
the Industrial School.

She was quite unwell, and had not been able to go out for several
days. She sat in the great rocking-chair, looking sad and disconsolate,
as most sick children do. She was comfortably clothed. Her dress she
had received at the school, and had sewed on it herself doing all
her little fingers could do to make it. Her hair was neatly combed.
She was feverish and very thirsty. Sometimes she went to the
pail herself for a cup of water, and sometimes her brother would get
it for her. He seemed kind, gentle, and sympathizing--a good example
for some more favoured boys.

Pretty soon the door opened, and an aged woman, bent with years and
breathing hard and painfully, entered the room.

A boy, with a complexion fair and transparent, through which the blue
veins showed themselves, immediately followed her. She greeted us
kindly, and took a chair by my side, bending towards us that she
might hear more easily, for she was almost deaf.

She told us that since her daughter's death she had been entirely
dependent on charity.

After talking with her a short time, Mrs. B----, the lady accompanying
me, gave her little grandson a penny to buy some candy. She did
so, because she wished to talk with his grandmother about him, and
thought he had, perhaps, better not be in the room. So soon as he left,
she asked the old lady if she had made up her mind to part
with the child. She had been spoken to a fortnight previously in regard
to it by another lady, and seemed then unwilling that he should
leave her.

She said she had come to the conclusion that she must give him up,
for she was too old and feeble to take care of him, and she was
constantly anxious about him. She could not do for him all that he needed,
and she knew it would be much better for him to be adopted in some
kind family, where he could be brought up as a son. She spoke of him
most tenderly and affectionately. He was her earthly all. She had taken
care of him from his infancy. She came from Ireland for that very purpose.
His father had died before he was old enough to remember him, and
his mother had supported him by her own industry.

The grandmother's name was not Smith, as we called her. It was, as she
said, widow Cahoon.

The daughter's name was Smith, and the sunny-haired boy was David. Last
May, Mrs. Smith died of cholera, leaving her aged mother homeless, and
her beautiful boy an orphan.

When David returned with a great piece of molasses-candy, he did not
keep it all himself. He divided it among the other children without
being told to do so. This showed that he was a generous child, and
loved to make others happy. When he had eaten his portion, his grandmother
washed his face, neck, and hands, and put on his best clothes,
which his mother had made for him before her death.

He looked very tidy and comfortable in his brown overcoat and his
new boots--a New-Year's present.

The grandmother tied up a pair of shoes and a few socks in a little
bundle. When she handed it to David, he burst into tears. He felt that
he was really going from his dearest friend.

She wept aloud for a few minutes, but when she saw how much it affected
him, she wiped away her tears, and attempted to cheer him. He
summoned his resolution and became once more calm.

Mrs. B---- took him by the hand, and led him down stairs.

As he left the room, I gave mine to his grandmother, who uplifted it
in both her's, as if pleading, in silent agony, for strength to
bear this new trial.

I shall never forget the expression of that wrinkled, up-turned face.
Dear old grandmother! Who will comfort her now? David will not forget
her, but he cannot put his arms around her neck, nor cheer her with the
sunlight of his bright face. She is alone--none of her kindred near.
The lady who took charge of David will do what she can for her, but her
heart must yearn for the dear boy that poverty and age compelled her
to give to the fostering care of strangers.

When David reached the street, the tears were tracing their way
over his round, plump cheek, but soon a smile played around his mouth.
Mrs.
B---- took him into a toy-shop, and purchased for him a tin horse
suspended in a wheel, which he could roll about the room.

He selected this himself, and it was delightful to see with how much
pleasure he looked at it, as he carried it in his hand.

We concluded to make no more calls that day, but to take David
directly to Mrs. B----'s. When his coat and cap were taken off, he
began to roll the horse across the floor. Sometimes he would come and
stand by my side, and examine it closely. I said to him--
"Have you ever been in the country?"
"Oh, yes. I was there a month, when we buried mother."
"Where were you?"
"We were with Elek, grandma's son."
"Why doesn't your grandmother live with him?"
"He isn't kind to her."
"Was his wife kind?"

"No; she said she wouldn't live with him if grandma did."
"What did you see in the country?"

"I saw the fields, and the trees, and horses, and cows."

"Did Elek have a cow?"
"Yes; and she went away every day, and at night she came home,
and they milked her."

"Did you see any birds?"
"I saw birds no bigger than that," said he, putting his hand over
his horse so as to hide more than half of it, "and they sang all
the time.

And there were some chickens, that laid eggs, and then Elek's wife sold
the eggs to the baker to pay for bread."

"And had you apples or peaches?"
"I used to throw small stones at the apples, and knock them off.

The peaches I could reach with my hand. I had just as many as I wanted."

The little orphan's month in the country had been a sunny spot in his
memory, clouded only by the unkindness of Elek towards the grandmother
he loved so much.

How strange it is that children can ever forget how much they owe their
parents! When the widow Cahoon was young, she had watched over his
infancy.

She had carried him in her arms, unmindful of her own weariness,
and had done all for him that his helplessness required.

But now she is old; her eyes are dim; her hearing is impaired; her hands
are tremulous, and she is unable to provide for herself. Yet Elek's
heart is hard. He has forgotten all her love, and will not even give
her a home. He cannot prosper.

I well remember, when a child, what a fearful impression a passage
from the "words of Agur" made on my mind: "The eye that mocketh
at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the
valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it."

"Honour thy father and mother, (which is the first commandment with
promise,") Paul writes to the Ephesian children, "that it may be
well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth."

I should fear to hear Elek's future history. It must be dark and sorrowful.
His poor old mother uttered a groan, when, as she was talking about
David's mother, I asked if she had any other children.

"He isn't kind to her," explained its meaning.

"Sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child."
I left David with Mrs. B----, who will find him a home in some family
where they wish to adopt a little son.

"He will make friends for himself,"--she said, confidently, and I
felt so also, for his sweet, intelligent face is too attractive and
winning not to find its way to some loving heart.

When Mrs. B---- talked with him about his mother, he wept.

She soon comforted him, and told him that God would provide for him.

He seems to possess a sensitive nature, with, at the same time, the
power of self-control.

Who of you would like this orphan for an adopted brother? He is
only five years old. I have written to a kind lady of my acquaintance,
who has adopted two little girls, to inquire if she does not wish
to add David to her household treasures.

There are many such homeless children in New York, and it is an act
of Christian charity to adopt and educate them, and one which is
rich in blessings to every heart that is open to receive the
fatherless and motherless.

Mrs. B---- would like to have adopted David herself but she has so much
to do for so many orphan children, that she concluded she had not the
time to devote to him. She sent him to a place known as the Home of the
Friendless. This is a large brick house, built on purpose to shelter
those who have no home of their own.

There are always many children there, who are kindly taken care of till
homes can be obtained for them. Those who are large enough attend school.

I was so much interested in David that I often called to see him. The
first call was made one day just before dinner.

I looked about for my little friend, and found him in the wash-room.
He was standing by a great towel, and wiping his fair, plump face
as nicely as he could. I kissed his clean, rosy cheek, and inquired
if he remembered me. He smiled, and said, "Yes, ma'am." He appeared
quite happy and contented.
His teacher told me that he was a remarkably good boy.
Several applications were made for David by those who heard his
story, and found room in their hearts and houses for the fatherless
and motherless boy. His grandmother, knowing that she was too aged
and feeble to take care of him, gave him to the Home. It was a great
trial to do so, but she loved him too well not to seek his best
interests.
She was willing to live alone, uncheered by the presence and affection
of her darling grandchild, if she could only feel that he would be
kindly treated and educated by Christian people.
A lady in Illinois wrote that she had a dear little son in heaven,
and wanted David to come to her to supply his place in the home
circle, where he would find those whom he might call "father, mother,
and grandmother." A clergyman in Connecticut proposed to adopt him,
and was coming to New York the first of May to take him home, if
it should be thought best.
While David was at the Home for the Friendless, his grandmother
occupied a room not far from Mrs. B----'s. It was on the lower
floor, so that she was no longer exhausted by going up so many
flights of stairs. Several ladies united, and each sent her a dinner
one day in the week, and saw that she was provided with breakfast
and tea. They furnished her with comfortable clothing, for which
she manifested much gratitude.
It was always pleasant to call upon "Widow Cahoon," and hear her
talk about herself and her previous charge. She told us about his
parents and grandparents. His father's father was a Methodist
clergyman, and his grandmother, Smith, was a most devout woman. She
loved to talk of their excellencies of character, and the good they
had accomplished. I never heard her without being reminded of God's
faithfulness in showing mercy unto thousands of them that love him
and keep his commandments.
One day, when I was at Mrs. B----'s, "Widow Cahoon" was ushered
into her private room--a back parlour on the second story. She was
much out of breath, and it required some time for her to recover
herself sufficiently to talk. At length she spoke of her children,
some of whom she hoped were living. Two sons and a daughter had
come to America long before she did, and had gone to Pennsylvania.
She had not heard from them for twelve years."There were some plates of
it in the architectural journals. Just how good he doesn't know, I
suppose--and never will."

"I found him fairly appreciative of it."

"Possibly--as a financial achievement brought about by his own money."

"He's learning some of its good points," I declared.

"There was some talk of having Albert there, just before they went off
to the Yellowstone." He frowned. "Well, this can't go on so many more
years, now."

I did not quite get Raymond's attitude. He did not want the boy with him
at home. He did not want to meet any extra expenses--and Mrs. McComas
was assuredly paying Albert's way through mid-summer, as well as
eternally buying him clothes. I think that what Raymond wanted--and
wanted but rather weakly--was his own will, whether there was any
advantage in it or not, and wanted that will without payments, charges,
costs.

I disliked his grudging way, or rather, his balking way, as regarded a
recognition of the liberality of his former wife's husband--for that was
what it came to.

I returned his prospectus. "I'll look this up. How about that company in
Montana?" I continued.

"They've passed a dividend. I was counting on something from that
quarter."

"And how about the factory in Iowa?"

"That will bring me something next year."

"Well," I said, doubling back to the matter that had brought him in,
"I'll inquire about this and let you know."

In the course of a few days I called on McComas. Others were calling.
Others were always calling. If I wanted to see him I should have to
wait. I had expected to wait. I waited.

When I was finally admitted, he rose and came halfway through his
splendors of upholstery to give me an Olympian greeting.

"It's brass tacks," I said. "Three minutes will do."

"Four, if you like."

"Three. Frankly, very frankly, is this a thing"--here I used the large
page of ornamental letter-press as word-saver--"is this a thing for an
ordinary investor?"

"Ordinary investor"--that is what I called Raymond. Perhaps I flattered
him unduly.

"Why," responded McComas, with a grimace, "it's a right enough thing for
the right man--or men. Several of us expect to do pretty well out of
it."

"'Several'? How about the rank outsider?"

"Anybody that _you_ know sniffing?"

"Yes."

"Who?"

"Well--Prince."

"H'm." Johnny pondered; became magnanimous. "Well, it ain't for him.
Pull his nose away. I don't want his money."

He knew what he had taken. He may have had a prescience of what he was
yet to take. He could afford an interim of generosity.


V

A year or so went on, and we met the McComases at a horse-show. Once
more it had become distinguished to have horses, and to exhibit them--in
the right place. Althea was with her parents; so was the survivor of the
stalwart twins.

Johnny had taken the blow hard. That a son of his, one so strong and
robust, a youth on whom so much time and thought and care and money had
been lavished to fit him for the world, should go down and go out (and
in such a sudden, trivial fashion)--oh, it was more than he felt he
could endure. But he was built on a broad plan; his nature, when the
test came, opened a wide door to the assimilation of experiences and
offered a wide margin for adjustment to their jars. His other son, the
full equal of the lost one, still survived and was present to-day; and
Johnny, grandly reconciled, was himself again.

Althea had taken the interval to make sure about her hair-ribbon and her
skirts. The ribbons had been pronounced outgrown and superfluous, and
had been banished. The suitability of longer skirts had been felt, and
had been acted upon. Althea was now almost a young lady, and a very
pretty one.

I say it without bitterness. The beauties of nature--those trifles that
make the great differences--are indeed unequally distributed among human
creatures. Not all girls are pretty; not all attractive; not all
equipped to make their way. No.

You will assume for yourselves the greenery of grass and trees, the slow
cumuli in the afternoon sky, the lively, brightly dressed throngs on
lawns and verandas, and the horses; yes, even those were present,
somewhere or other.

Gertrude McComas was of the crowd; suitably dressed (or, perhaps,
attired), a little less spare than once, and somehow conveying the
impression, if unobtrusively, that her presence was necessary for the
completeness of the function. She was pleasant with Althea, who had a
horse on her mind and a number on her back.

Gertrude had returned from the North with Althea and Albert, a week
before Albert's allotted time with her was up, so that they might all be
a part of this occasion. Albert was now taller than his father, had
begun to gather up a little assertiveness on reaching the end of his
preparatory days, had taken his examinations, and was understood to be
within a month or so of college.

I cannot say that Althea's skirts, however much thought she had given
them, were long to-day. The only skirts she wore were the skirts of her
riding-coat. The rest of her was boots and trousers; and she carried a
little quirt with which she flecked the dust from her nethers, now and
again, rather smartly.

Albert looked--obviously envious, and obviously perturbed. His various
knockings from pillar to post had left him without horse and without
horsemanship. And here was a young feminine (almost a relative, in a
sense; well, was she, or was she not?) who was dressed as he (with some
slight differences) might have been dressed, and who was doing (or was
about to do) some of the things that he himself (as he was now keenly
conscious) had always hankered to do.... How was he to take it all?--the
difference, the likeness, the closeness, the distance....

And we--my wife and I--became suddenly, poignantly, even bitterly aware
that our Elsie, beside us in her tailor-made, had never been on a horse
in her life--and was now perhaps too old to make a good beginning.

After a little while Althea was carried away for her "entry" or "event,"
or whatever they properly call it--for I am no sportsman. Some small
section of the crowd interested itself about the same time--at least got
between us and the proceedings. We saw little or nothing--just heads,
hats and parasols. All I know is that, in a few moments, Althea
reappeared--I think she had leaped something. Her father was by her
side, vastly proud and happy. Her mother (as I shall say for short)
arrived from somewhere, with a gratified smile. Her big brother
presently drew up alongside on a polo-pony, and gave her a big,
flat-handed pat in the middle of her placard, and a handsome young
woman, who was pointed out to us as the wife he had married in February,
during our fortnight at Miami, reached up to her bridle-hand and gave it
a squeeze. And there was a deep fringe of miscellaneous friends,
acquaintances and rivals.

"What do you think of our daughter, now!" asked Johnny, loudly and
generally, as he lifted Althea down. He looked about as if to sweep
together the widest assemblage of praises and applause. Many flocked;
many congratulated; but still further tribute must be levied. McComas
caught sight of Albert. The young fellow stood on the edge of the thing,
staring, embarrassed, shaken to his centre.

"Here, you, Albert!" Johnny cried; "come over and shake hands with the
winner!"

And meanwhile, Raymond, off by himself somewhere or other, I suppose,
may have been studying how in the world he was ever going to put Albert
through Yale.


VI

Business once more!

It ought to be barred. I get enough of it in my daily routine without
having it intrude here. Business should do no more than provide the
platform and the scenic background for the display of young love, hope
and beauty. But here we have to deal with the affairs of a worried and
incompetent man half way through his fifties.

Raymond came in one morning, on my summons. His manner was depressed; it
was becoming habitually so. I tried to cheer him with indifferent
topics,--among them the horse-show, which I saw so unsatisfactorily and
which I have described so inadequately. He had already heard about it
from Albert, and he felt no relish for the friendliness Johnny McComas
had displayed on that occasion.

"Trying to get _him_, too?" was Raymond's comment.

"Oh, I wouldn't quite say _that_...."

"I have a letter from his mother. She wants to know about college."

"Well, how _are_ things?"

"Oh, I don't know; poor."

"That Iowa company?"

"Next year."

"Again?"

"Yes--next year; as usual."

"Well, I have news for you."

"Good?" he asked, picking up a little.

"That depends on how you look at it. I have a buyer for your house."

"Thank God!"

"Don't hurry to thank God. Perhaps you will want to thank the Devil."

Raymond's face fell. "You don't mean that _he_--on top of everything
else--has come forward to--?"

"My friend! my friend! It isn't that at all. 'He' has nothing to do with
it. Quite another party."

And it was. A Mr. Gluckstein, a sort of impresario made suddenly rich by
a few seasons with fiddlers and prima donnas, was the man. He was
willing, he said,--and I paid the news out as evenly and considerately
as I could,--he was willing to take the house and assume the
mortgage--but he asked a bonus of five thousand dollars for doing it.

"The scoundrel!" groaned Raymond, his face twisted by contemptuous rage.
"The impudent scoundrel!"

"Possibly so. But that is his offer--and the only one. And it is his
best."

Raymond sat with his eyes on the floor. He was afraid to let me see his
face. He hated the house--it was an incubus, a millstone; but--

He visibly despaired. "What shall I do about Albert's college, now?" he
muttered presently.

He seemed to have passed at a bound beyond the stage of sale and
transfer. It came and went without my knowledge. But I enjoy the return
of it very much now, and sympathize with children in the interest
with which they regard it.

I like to think they are treasuring up such cheerful memories to
make their early home attractive to their age.

The little Dudley's will always like to look back to this pleasant
evening, and wherever they are, their hearts will warm more fondly
on account of it to their father's cottage, nestled in the valley,
and they will be in less danger of forgetting the lessons of love
and kindness they have learned there.

I WILL CONQUER MYSELF.

In one of the oldest towns of New-England there lived, many years ago,
a little girl, whom I shall call Helen Earle.

Her father had been engaged in the East Indian trade, and had
accumulated great wealth.

Her mother was a sweet, gentle woman, who most tenderly loved her children,
and endeavoured to correct their faults, and develop their
excellencies.

In Helen's home there was every comfort and every luxury that heart
could desire, but she was not always happy.

She had one fault, which often made herself and her friends very
unhappy. It was the indulgence of a violent temper. She would allow
herself to become exceedingly angry, and her usually beautiful face
was then disfigured by passion.

Her mother was greatly grieved and distressed by these outbreaks
of ill temper, and did all in her power to restrain them.

She talked with her daughter earnestly in regard to the sin of such
a temper.

Helen would weep bitter tears, and express much regret for the past,
but she could not quite make up her mind to determine to overcome
temptation.

The task seemed too difficult, and she shrunk from the attempt.

Mrs.
Her reply suggested that he call at the bank;
she would pass on the word. He told me he would try to do so. I saw the
impudent concert-monger was to have his house.

And so, one forenoon, at eleven or so, Raymond, after some
self-drivings, reached the bank; by appointment, as he understood.
Through the big doors; up the wide, balustraded stairway--it was the
first time he had ever been in the place. He was well on the way to the
broad, square landing, when some lively clerks or messengers, who had
been springing along behind him, all at once slackened their pace and
began to skirt the paneled marble walls. A number of prosperous
middle-aged and elderly men were coming down together in a compact
group. It seemed as if some directors' meeting was in progress--in
progress from one office, or one building, to another. After-years proved
the correctness of this conclusion.

Reuben is now a man of intelligence and wealth. He is one whom the world
delights to honour; but among his pleasantest memories, I doubt not,
is that of the barrel of flour he bought for his beloved mother.

"Filial love will never go unrewarded."

[Illustration]

MARY'S STORY.

Mary and Eddie had retired to their little beds.

Their mother had said "good night," and had given them both a kiss. She
was just leaving the room, when Eddie said to his sister,
"Now you can tell me about Jesus."

This simple remark revealed to Mrs. Dudley the subject of their
conversation after she left them for the night. It gave her great pleasure,
for she desires nothing so much as that her children may love the Saviour,
and she knows the more they think about him, and the more they
learn of his life, the more they will find him worthy of love.

Mrs. Dudley offered up a silent prayer to her heavenly Father that the
Holy Spirit would teach them and guide them into all truth.

She did not remain with the children to hear them as they talked
together, but a few days afterwards she asked Eddie what Mary told
him about Jesus.

He repeated the history of his birth, of the cruel persecution of
Herod, of his blameless life, and his death upon the cross.

Eddie is too young to realize much about the great love of Christ,
and how much he has done for us that we may be happy, but he is not too
young to love him.

I hope he will never forget the sweet story Mary told him. Jesus loves
little children. He is their best friend, always ready to forgive them
when they are sorry for doing wrong, and to help them when they try
to do what is right.

Even now, as I am writing, I hear children singing
"There is a happy land Far far away."
The sound grows fainter and fainter--eyelids are drooping--sleep is near--the
voices are hushed--the little ones are slumbering. May "holy angels guard
their bed."
[Illustration]
THE SUNNY FACE, AND THE SHADY FACE; OR, JUNE AND NOVEMBER.
"How happy I am to-night! I love you so much I want to be with you
all the time," said Willie to his mother, as he followed her from
the dining-room to the nursery, one stormy evening.
What made Willie so happy?"I filled the furnace seven times," he said to me, laconically.

I myself felt the strain of it all. It is less wearing to move every two
or three years, as most of us do, than to move but once--near the end of
a long life, of a succession of lives.

I never asked what Mr. Gluckstein thought of the orchestrion.

Raymond went to live at a sort of private hotel. Here he read and wrote.
He carried with him a set of little red guide-books, long, long since
out of date, and he restudied Europe in the light of early memories. He
also subscribed to a branch of a public library in the vicinity--a
vicinity that seemed on the far edge of things. However, the tendency of
the town has always been centrifugal. Many of our worthies, if they have
held on to life long enough, have had to make the same disconcerting
trek.

From this retreat Raymond occasionally issued to concerts and
picture-exhibitions. I do not know that he was greatly concerned for
them; but they carried on a familiar tradition and gave employment still
to a failing momentum.

From this same retreat there would issue, about the Christmas season, a
few watercolors on Italian subjects. If they were faint and feeble, I
shall not say so. We ourselves have one of them--an indecisive view of
the ruins in the Roman Forum. It is not quite the Forum I recall; but
then, as we know, the Roman Forum, for the past half-century, has
altered almost from year to year.

Letters reached him occasionally from Albert the freshman. They might
well have come from Albert the sophomore. Raymond showed me one of them
on an evening when I had called to see him in his new quarters.

He was comfortable enough and snug. On the walls and shelves were books
and pictures that I remembered seeing in his boyhood bedroom.

"I like it here," he said emphatically. And in truth it was the den of a
born bachelor--one who had discovered himself too late.

Well, Raymond passed me Albert's letter. He showed it to me, not with
pride, but (as was evident from the questioning eye he kept on my face)
with a view to learning what I thought of it. He was asking a verdict,
yet shrinking from it.

Albert was rather cocky; also, rather restless--I wondered if he would
last to _be_ a sophomore. And he displayed little of the consideration
due a father. Clearly, Raymond, as a parent, had been weighed and found
wanting. Albert's ideal stood high in another quarter, and his life's
ambition might soon drive him in a direction the reverse of academic.

"How does it strike you?" asked Raymond, as I sat mulling over Albert's
sheets.

I searched my mind for some non-committal response.

"Well," Raymond burst out, "he needn't respect _me_ if he doesn't admire
_him_!"


II

Albert's response to McComas at the horse-show had not been noticeably
prompt or adroit, but he cast about manfully for words and presently was
able to voice his appreciation of Althea's feat (as it was regarded) and
to congratulate her upon it. Johnny McComas was not at all displeased.
Albert had not been light-handed and graceful, but he developed (under
this sudden stress) a sturdy, downright mode of speech which showed
sincerity if not dexterity. The square-standing, straight-speaking
farm-lad--straight-speaking, if none too ready--was sounding an
atavistic note caught from his great-grandfather back in York State.

"Stuff in him!" commented Johnny. "It's a wonder, but there is. Must be
his mother."

Albert made no particular impression, however, on Althea herself. At
length it became evident that he must die.

A few hours before his death, he looked up to his mother and said:

"Do you remember my gold dollar?"
"Yes, my son; but we had better not think of that now."

"But mother," said George, "I want you to give it to the missionaries,
and my shillings too, and all the pennies. Give it all to the
missionaries."
George died, and I trust has gone to heaven. His desire to do good
was no doubt acceptable and pleasing to God. He could not receive here
the reward God has promised to those who give to the poor, but in
another world his heavenly Father can most richly recompense him.

The sum contributed by the dying child was not large, but it was all he
had.

In the same town lived a little girl, whose father was a
clergyman.
One after another of his dear ones were taken from him. A precious babe
of seventeen months, a sweet prattler of three years, and another of
five, were called to leave this world and grow up with the angels in
heaven. Then this child of eleven must go too--the fourth out of that
family circle within one short month!

She had been a follower of the Saviour for three years, and had thought
much of the condition of the heathen, who have no knowledge of the
way of salvation through Christ. She hoped, if she lived, to become a
missionary herself, and teach them about the true God and his son
Jesus Christ.

She was ill nearly three weeks, but she was not unhappy. She did not fear
to die. The Saviour, whom she loved, was near her, to walk with
her through the valley of the shadow of death, and his rod and
staff--they comforted her.

She knew that her beloved parents would soon join her in the heavenly
world, when they all together should enjoy the immediate presence of
their Lord. She looked forward cheerfully and joyfully, to the glorious
immortality upon which she was so soon to enter. When dying, she exclaimed,
"It is all dark here, but I shall soon be where it is light. I shall be
with my heavenly Father, and the blessed Saviour, and all the good
people."
One of this child's last requests was, that her dollar--the only money
she possessed--should be sent to a missionary society to buy
Testaments for heathen children.

These children's offerings, small though they are, are yet precious
gifts cast into the treasury of our Lord.

Their influence will never cease. Many souls may be converted through the
truth these "two mites" may be the means of teaching.

[Illustration]

"BLESS GOD FOR THIS DOLL."

When Mary Wilson was about five years old, her aunt Ann came from a distant
place to make her mother a visit. She was fond of children, and often talked
and played with her little niece, and assisted her in making dresses
for her doll. This gratified Mary, and made her love her more and
more, as we always love those who are kind to us.
Mary's doll was not pretty, but she liked it very much, and took
good care of it. She always undressed it at night, before she went
to bed, and put on a nice white night-gown her mother had made for
it; and in the morning she would dress it again for the day. She
named it Louisa, but her younger brother always called it Quesa,
and, after a time, all the family spoke of it by that name."Come," said her father, who was close by, between the horse-block and
the syringa-bushes, "Albert isn't the only soldier on the battle-field.
Look at Tom, here!"

Althea turned her eyes dutifully toward her stalwart brother, who
humorously put up his stiffened fingers to the stiff brim of his hat;
and then she looked back at Albert.


III

McComas's bank, like others, put its office-machinery at the disposal of
the Government, when the first war-loan was in the making. It seemed a
small matter, at the beginning, but administrative organization was
taxed and clerical labors piled up hugely as the big, slow event moved
along through its various stages. This work in itself came almost to
seem an adequate contribution to the cause; surely in the mere
percentage of interest offered there was little to appeal to the
financial public, except perhaps the depositors of savings banks.
McComas himself felt no promptings to subscribe to this loan; but his
directors thought that a reasonable degree of participation was
"indicated." The bank's name went down, with the names of some others;
and the clerks who had been working over hours on the new and exacting
minutiæ of the undertaking were given a chance to divert their savings
toward the novel securities. The bank displayed the Nation's flag, and
the flags of some of the allies. It all made a busy corner. McComas
thought of his son in khaki, and felt himself warming daily as a
patriot.

"We can do them up," he declared. The war, with him, was still largely a
matter of financial pressure. The pressure, even if exerted at long
range, was bound to tell. The poet has done many things well; and
he has done few things better than this ballad in the quaint, old-time
style, with its nervous energy and sonorous rhythm, wherein one
hears the trampling of waves and crashing of timbers.

Indeed, it is so well done, by art concealing art, that much of
its force and beauty escape the careless reader; whereas, the thoughtful
one finds in it an ever-increasing charm. It is worth noting that love,
the usual ballad _motif_, is absent and is not missed.
It was easy to see him
freezing, soaking, falling, lying in distress. She busied herself behind
a great plate-glass window on a frequented thoroughfare--a window heaped
with battered helmets and emptied shells that drew the idle curiosity or
the poignant interest of the passer-by. Bandages, sweaters, iodine-tubes
filled her thoughts and her hands. And Althea, in company with several
sprightly and entertaining young girls of her own set, began to pick up
some elementary notions in nursing.

"Why, it's the most delightfully absorbing thing I've ever done!" she
declared. A new world was dawning--a red world that not all of us have
been fated to meet so young.

Raymond Prince saw all these preparations and took them as a spectacle.
He was now frankly but an onlooker in life, and he gazed at big things
from their far rim. He had no spare funds to put into federal hands, and
felt by no means able to afford the conversion of any of his few
remaining investments with a loss of nearly half his present returns. 
Sometimes he only stops a moment, but it is a precious moment to them
both, for their hearts and interests are one. They are cheered, in their
separation, by the pleasant memories of these brief interviews, and
by bright anticipations of future enjoyment.

I have observed, Mr. Robin thinks it of importance to look nice at home,
as well as when he is abroad. I have seen him alight on the walnut-tree,
and carefully arrange his toilet, before going into the presence
of his wife.

She must feel complimented by this delicate attention, indicating so high
a regard for her, and such anxiety to preserve her esteem. I should
not wonder if she was a little proud of her handsome husband. However
this may be, I am sure it is her greatest happiness to deserve his respect
and love, and honourably to perform all the duties which devolve
upon her in her married life.

Madam Robin was sitting one day in her vine-shaded home, looking
out through the slender branches of the honeysuckle, which were
gently swayed by a refreshing breeze, when she heard a slight tap.

She listened eagerly. Another tap--presently another. How her heart
fluttered! It proceeded from one of those highly-prized eggs, and
she knew it was the timid knock of a birdling, who was in that little
chamber, and was waiting to have the door opened. Of how small consequence
all her self-denial and her seclusion from general society seemed, when
that thrilling tap sounded on her ear! She continued to listen, and
within those four tiny chambers she heard the same rapping repeated;
and more than that, the sweet word, Mother, might seem faintly to
greet her ear. How she longed for her mate to return, that he might
enjoy, with her, this new happiness! When husband and wife love each
other, as they should, all pleasure must be shared, or it will still be
imperfect. She waited, almost impatiently for his coming; and when he
alighted on the honeysuckle, she looked so full of grateful joy, that
he knew that something more than usual must have occurred.

He affectionately kissed her bill, and then, in a low tremulous
voice, she told him the glad news.

He was quite as much pleased as she, although he did not appear so
excited. Had employment in the open air given a firmness to his nerves,
which her sedentary occupations had not done for her? Yet beneath that
calm exterior, his sparkling eye plainly revealed the full tide of
emotion within.

It was pleasant music to their ears to hear those four
new voices in their secluded home; and though they knew it would
increase their labour to provide food for those gaping mouths, what cared
they for their own comfort, if they could nurture their precious
charge, and rear them to be an honour and a blessing?

Albert, whose injuries had made him appear as likely to be a useless
piece on the board for longer than the army surgeons thought worth
while, was sent back home and made his convalescence under the care of
his mother; within her house, indeed--for his father had no quarters to
offer him. Among McComas's flower-beds and garden-paths he enjoyed the
ministrations of a physician other and better than any that practices on
those fields of hate--one who complemented the prosaic physical cares
required for the body with an affluent stream of healing directed toward
both mind and heart. He had come back to be a hero to Althea, with
evidences of his heroism graved on his own bruised form.

"Hasn't he been wonderful!" said Althea to her girl friends; and Albert
volunteered few concrete facts that might qualify or detract from her
ideal.

Those few months comprised his contribution to the cause. He mended more
rapidly than might have been expected, and soon began to feel the
resurgence of those belligerencies which are proper to the nature of the
healthy young male. But his belligerencies were not at all militaristic.
He had seen war at short range, knew what it was, and desired it no
more. He meant to let loose his energies, as soon as might be, in that
other warfare, business; it would be after the manner of a
great-grandfather of whom a tradition persisted, and after the close
pattern of a McComas still before his eyes. A hero, if they wished; but
a hero with money in his pocket.

Meanwhile, McComas looked at his grandson and writhed. So many openings,
so many things to be done; yet what future aid had he to count on for
carrying along his line and for reaping the opportunities in his field?
A child of four, in rompers, pushing a little wheelbarrow of pebbles
along garden-paths. The years dragged. It was all too great an irony.

He sent for Albert. Albert still limped a little, but it was not to be
for long.

"You've done enough for your country," he declared with blunt emphasis.
"Now do something for me. You're almost well?"

"I think so."

"You want to pitch in?"

"I do."

"You want to amount to something?" continued McComas, pausing on the
edge of an invidious bit of characterization.

"Of course."

"You would like to come with me?"

"Yes." Surely his own father could not help him to a future.

"Well, take your choice. What do you want? Bank?"

But Albert had heard something about banks. Bank clerks, in these
close-knit days, when anybody who fell out of the lock-step was lost,
were but a sort of financial militia. Even if he were pushed along with
the friendliest zeal, it might be years before he reached the place and
the end desired. Nor had he much more fondness for growing up under the
eye of McComas than under that of his own father.

"Bank?" repeated McComas.

"No."

McComas grinned. It was the grin he used when greatly pleased.

"One of those Western concerns?"

"Yes," said Albert; "send me West."

When Raymond heard that Albert had cast in his lot with McComas and
meant soon to leave for Colorado, he winced. Albert, to him, was still a
boy, and this term in the West but another kind of schooling. "Just as
his mother tried to influence him before," said Raymond to me bitterly,
"so McComas will influence him now." And I could not deny that McComas
had the whip hand. The unintermittency of business correspondence, the
cogency of a place on the payroll....

You may not suffer the same mishap that she did, even if you allow
yourself to form the same habit; but it may lead you into as great
danger, and even greater, for it may peril the purity and peace of
your soul, and that is of far more consequence than the safety of
your body.

[Illustration]

"MARY'S GREAT TREASURE"

More than twenty years ago, there was a little blue-eyed, curly-haired
child playing about one of the pleasant homes in the West. She
was happy and kind, and every one loved her. She was only six years old,
yet she had a great treasure in her possession--greater than many
of the kings and queens of the earth can claim.

What do you suppose this treasure was? Was it a valuable diamond? Was it
an immense amount of silver and gold?

Something better than diamonds or silver and gold, was in this
little girl's keeping--something which will be safe when these have
all perished.

I will tell you what this treasure was, because I want you to be
as rich as Mary, and, through the great goodness of God, you may
all have just such a precious gift.

It was a NEW HEART--a heart that loved her heavenly Father, that
loved to pray to him and ask him to keep her from sin.

Mary often talked with her companions about Jesus, and before she
was ten years old several of them had been brought to love and obey
him, and had, like Mary, a new heart. How happy they were together! How
much the Saviour loved them!

Mary is now dead, and has gone to heaven.

Do you suppose she is sorry she so early went to Christ and asked him for
a new heart?

How pleasant it must have been to her to be able to say, as she
looked back over her past life, that she could not remember the
time when she did not love the Saviour; and she surely does not now
regret, that when she was a little child--less than most of you who
are reading about her--she went to Jesus and asked him for a heart
to love him.

Our heavenly Father will give you a new heart, if you really wish
to have it and feel your great need of it.

Jesus died that you might be saved from sin, and he loves _little_
children.

Will you not go to him, as did Mary, and ask him for a new heart?

If you are sorry for your sins, tell him so; and if you are not, ask him
to help you to feel how wicked sin is, that you may have the "great
treasure."

[Illustration]

"SUSAN WILL BE HAPPIER IF I GO WITH HER."

Mary Wilson is a little girl only nine years old. She loves her mother
very dearly, and she is always happy to be with her.

Mrs.

Wilson lives in the country, not far from a pretty village, to which
she occasionally goes to make a few purchases or call on a friend.

She sometimes takes Mary with her, who always enjoys such a walk. She
trips along by her mother's side, sometimes taking her hand, and
sometimes stooping down to gather a wild-flower which blossoms by
the roadside; and then perhaps she runs on and watches the brook
that trickles down the hill, on its way to the river.

Her smiling face and sparkling eyes show she is happy.

One day when she was all ready, with her white sack and blue sun-bonnet
on, to accompany her mother along the bank of the river to the village,
Susan Grafton called for her to go with her in another direction,
on an errand for Mrs. Grafton.

Mary was greatly tried.

She wished very much to go with her mother, but Susan did not like to
go alone. What to do she did not know. Tears were in her eyes, as she
told her mother her trouble and asked her what she should do.

Mrs.
Wilson left the decision entirely to Mary.

After a short struggle she smiled through her tears, and said, "I
should rather go with you, mother, but Susan will be happier if I
go with her.

I think I had better go with her."
Mrs.

Wilson kissed the quivering lip of her daughter, and told her she had
done right in thinking of Susan's happiness.

Her heart ascended in prayer to God for his blessing on her dear child,
that she might ever be unselfish and self-sacrificing.

Would not most children be happier than they now are, if, like Mary, they
tried to make others happy, and were willing to deny themselves for the
sake of their companions?

Although Mary was so much grieved to lose her walk with her mother,
she was far happier that afternoon than she would have been without
an approving conscience.

Will you not pray, dear children, for a kind, unselfish heart?

[Illustration]

THE NEWS-BOYS' BANK.

PART I.

"How much money have you in the bank?" I heard a gentleman inquire of a
boy.

"A dollar and a half," he replied.

I looked up, and saw before me a slender, bright-looking lad, about
fourteen years old.

The pantaloons he wore had evidently belonged to a full-grown man,
and were rolled up at the bottom to make them short enough for the
present wearer.

It came in June. The church was _the_ church--the church with the elms
and ash-trees around it, the triangular lawn with the hydrangeas and
elderberry-bushes blossoming here and there, and the gardens and
plantations of private wealth looking across from all sides; the church
where everybody who is anybody gets married as a matter of course--at
that time of year; the church which has plenty of room for limousines on
both sides of its converging streets, and on a third cross-street close
by; the church which has the popular and sympathetic rector, who has
known you ever since you were a boy (or girl), the competent organist,
and the valiant surpliced choir (valiant though small); the church
which, under its broad squat tower and low spire, possesses, about its
altar-rail, room for many palms and rubber-plants and for as many
bridesmaids and ushers as the taste of the high contracting parties may
require:--a space reached by a broad flight of six or seven steps, and
wide enough for any deployment, high enough for the whole assemblage to
see, and grand enough (with its steps and all) to make a considerable
effect when the first notes of the Wedding March sound forth and the
newly wedded couple walk down and out into married life.

"Be married in your uniform!" Johnny McComas had said effusively.

"Well, I'm not in the service, now...." replied Albert.

"You have been, haven't you? Haven't you?" Johnny repeated, as if there
could be two answers.

"Why, I was only a private...." Albert submitted.

"So were lots of other good fellows."

"It's soiled," said Albert. "There's a stain on the shoulder."

"All the better. We've done something for the country. Let those people
know it."

So Albert walked down the aisle in khaki.

Althea was in white--my wife named the material expertly. She wore a
long veil. There were flower-girls, too,--my wife knew their names.

"She's the most beautiful bride I ever saw!" my wife declared. "This is
the most beautiful wedding I ever attended!" She always says that.

Johnny McComas was in white, too. As he stood beside the bridal pair he
seemed almost too festive, too estival, too ebullient for this poor
earth of ours. His wife, whose costume I will not describe and whose
state of mind I shall not explore, showed a subdued sedateness--though a
glad--which restored the balance.

Raymond Prince saw the ceremony from one of the back pews. If he
attended the out-of-door reception at the house, it must have been but
briefly: I quite missed him there. For him the wedding proper had been
less a ceremony than a parade. I can fancy how he resented the
organist's grand outburst and the triumphal descent (undeniably
effective) of the bridal party over those six or seven steps. Again he
was an unregarded and negligible spectator. I presume he missed Johnny's
hand in Albert's, and Johnny's pressure on Albert's shoulder--the one
with the stain; and I hope he did. It was the hand of the stronger,
taking possession. "My prop, my future mainstay!" said Johnny's action.

And it was as an unregarded and negligible spectator--now his permanent
rôle--that Raymond Prince took the slow train back to town.


THE END

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Riverside Press
CAMBRIDGE · MASSACHUSETTS
U · S · A