"Well, there was one thing I never could reconcile myself to in the
whole arrangement," replied Ardan cheerfully; "and that was destruction
by an open curve. Safe from that, I could say, 'Fate, do your worst!'
Besides, I don't believe in the infallibility of your ellipsic. It may
prove just as unreliable as the hyperbola. And it is no harm to hope
that it may!"

From present appearances there was very little to justify Ardan's hope.
Barbican's theory of the elliptic orbit was unfortunately too well
grounded to allow a single reasonable doubt to be expressed regarding
the Projectile's fate. It was to gravitate for ever around the Moon--a
sub-satellite. It was a new born individual in the astral universe, a
microcosm, a little world in itself, containing, however, only three
inhabitants and even these destined to perish pretty soon for want of
air. Our travellers, therefore, had no particular reason for rejoicing
over the new destiny reserved for the Projectile in obedience to the
inexorable laws of the centripetal and centrifugal forces. They were
soon, it is true, to have the opportunity of beholding once more the
illuminated face of the Moon. They might even live long enough to catch
a last glimpse of the distant Earth bathed in the glory of the solar
rays. They might even have strength enough left to be able to chant one
solemn final eternal adieu to their dear old Mother World, upon whose
features their mortal eyes should never again rest in love and longing!
Then, what was their Projectile to become? An inert, lifeless, extinct
mass, not a particle better than the most defunct asteroid that wanders
blindly through the fields of ether. A gloomy fate to look forward to.
Yet, instead of grieving over the inevitable, our bold travellers
actually felt thrilled with delight at the prospect of even a momentary
deliverance from those gloomy depths of darkness and of once more
finding themselves, even if only for a few hours, in the cheerful
precincts illuminated by the genial light of the blessed Sun!

The ring of light, in the meantime, becoming brighter and brighter,
Barbican was not long in discovering and pointing out to his companions
the different mountains that lay around the Moon's south pole.

"There is _Leibnitz_ on your right," said he, "and on your left you can
easily see the peaks of _Doerfel_. Belonging rather to the Moon's dark
side than to her Earth side, they are visible to terrestrial astronomers
only when she is in her highest northern latitudes. Those faint peaks
beyond them that you can catch with such difficulty must be those of
_Newton_ and _Curtius_."

"How in the world can you tell?" asked Ardan.

"They are the highest mountains in the circumpolar regions," replied
Barbican. "They have been measured with the greatest care; _Newton_ is
23,000 feet high."

"More or less!" laughed Ardan. "What Delphic oracle says so?"

"Dear friend," replied Barbican quietly, "the visible mountains of the
Moon have been measured so carefully and so accurately that I should
hardly hesitate in affirming their altitude to be as well known as that
of Mont Blanc, or, at least, as those of the chief peaks in the
Himalayahs or the Rocky Mountain Range."

"I should like to know how people set about it," observed Ardan
incredulously.

"There are several well known methods of approaching this problem,"
replied Barbican; "and as these methods, though founded on different
principles, bring us constantly to the same result, we may pretty
safely conclude that our calculations are right. We have no time, just
now to draw diagrams, but, if I express myself clearly, you will no
doubt easily catch the general principle."

"Go ahead!" answered Ardan. "Anything but Algebra."

"We want no Algebra now," said Barbican, "It can't enable us to find
principles, though it certainly enables us to apply them. Well. The Sun
at a certain altitude shines on one side of a mountain and flings a
shadow on the other. The length of this shadow is easily found by means
of a telescope, whose object glass is provided with a micrometer. This
consists simply of two parallel spider threads, one of which is
stationary and the other movable. The Moon's real diameter being known
and occupying a certain space on the object glass, the exact space
occupied by the shadow can be easily ascertained by means of the movable
thread. This space, compared with the Moon's space, will give us the
length of the shadow. Now, as under the same circumstances a certain
height can cast only a certain shadow, of course a knowledge of the one
must give you that of the other, and _vice versa_. This method, stated
roughly, was that followed by Galileo, and, in our own day, by Beer and
Maedler, with extraordinary success."

"I certainly see some sense in this method," said Ardan, "if they took
extraordinary pains to observe correctly. The least carelessness would
set them wrong, not only by feet but by miles. We have time enough,
however, to listen to another method before we get into the full blaze
of the glorious old Sol."

"The other method," interrupted M'Nicholl laying down his telescope to
rest his eyes, and now joining in the conversation to give himself
something to do, "is called that of the _tangent rays_. A solar ray,
barely passing the edge of the Moon's surface, is caught on the peak of
a mountain the rest of which lies in shadow. The distance between this
starry peak and the line separating the light from the darkness, we
measure carefully by means of our telescope. Then--"

"I see it at a glance!" interrupted Ardan with lighting eye; "the ray,
being a tangent, of course makes right angles with the radius, which is
known: consequently we have two sides and one angle--quite enough to
find the other parts of the triangle. Very ingenious--but now, that I
think of it--is not this method absolutely impracticable for every
mountain except those in the immediate neighborhood of the light and
shadow line?"

"That's a defect easily remedied by patience," explained Barbican--the
Captain, who did not like being interrupted, having withdrawn to his
telescope--"As this line is continually changing, in course of time all
the mountains must come near it. A third method--to measure the mountain
profile directly by means of the micrometer--is evidently applicable
only to altitudes lying exactly on the lunar rim."

"That is clear enough," said Ardan, "and another point is also very
clear. In Full Moon no measurement is possible. When no shadows are
made, none can be measured. Measurements, right or wrong, are possible
only when the solar rays strike the Moon's surface obliquely with regard
to the observer. Am I right, Signor Barbicani, maestro illustrissimo?"

"Perfectly right," replied Barbican. "You are an apt pupil."

"Say that again," said Ardan. "I want Mac to hear it."

Barbican humored him by repeating the observation, but M'Nicholl would
only notice it by a grunt of doubtful meaning.

"Was Galileo tolerably successful in his calculations?" asked Ardan,
resuming the conversation.

Before answering this question, Barbican unrolled the map of the Moon,
which a faint light like that of day-break now enabled him to examine.
He then went on: "Galileo was wonderfully successful--considering that
the telescope which he employed was a poor instrument of his own
construction, magnifying only thirty times. He gave the lunar mountains
a height of about 26,000 feet--an altitude cut down by Hevelius, but
almost doubled by Riccioli. Herschel was the first to come pretty close
to the truth, but Beer and Maedler, whose _Mappa Selenographica_ now
lies before us, have left really nothing more to be done for lunar
astronomy--except, of course, to pay a personal visit to the
Moon--which we have tried to do, but I fear with a very poor prospect of
success."

"Cheer up! cheer up!" cried Ardan. "It's not all over yet by long odds.
Who can say what is still in store for us? Another bolide may shunt us
off our ellipse and even send us to the Moon's surface."

Then seeing Barbican shake his head ominously and his countenance become
more and more depressed, this true friend tried to brighten him up a bit
by feigning to take deep interest in a subject that to him was
absolutely the driest in the world.

"Meer and Baedler--I mean Beer and Maedler," he went on, "must have
measured at least forty or fifty mountains to their satisfaction."

"Forty or fifty!" exclaimed Barbican. "They measured no fewer than a
thousand and ninety-five lunar mountains and crater summits with a
perfect success. Six of these reach an altitude of upwards of 18,000
feet, and twenty-two are more than 15,000 feet high."

"Which is the highest in the lot?" asked Ardan, keenly relishing
Barbican's earnestness.

"_Doerfel_ in the southern hemisphere, the peak of which I have just
pointed out, is the highest of the lunar mountains so far measured,"
replied Barbican. "It is nearly 25,000 feet high."

"Indeed! Five thousand feet lower than Mount Everest--still for a lunar
mountain, it is quite a respectable altitude."

"Respectable! Why it's an enormous altitude, my dear friend, if you
compare it with the Moon's diameter. The Earth's diameter being more
than 3-1/2 times greater than the Moon's, if the Earth's mountains bore
the same ratio to those of the Moon, Everest should be more than sixteen
miles high, whereas it is not quite six."

"How do the general heights of the Himalayahs compare with those of the
highest lunar mountains?" asked Ardan, wondering what would be his next
question.

"Fifteen peaks in the eastern or higher division of the Himalayahs, are
higher than the loftiest lunar peaks," replied Barbican. "Even in the
western, or lower section of the Himalayahs, some of the peaks exceed
_Doerfel_."

"Which are the chief lunar mountains that exceed Mont Blanc in
altitude?" asked Ardan, bravely suppressing a yawn.

"The following dozen, ranged, if my memory does not fail me, in the
exact order of their respective heights;" replied Barbican, never
wearied in answering such questions: "_Newton_, _Curtius_, _Casatus_,
_Rheita_, _Short_, _Huyghens_, _Biancanus_, _Tycho_, _Kircher_,
_Clavius_, _Endymion_, and _Catharina_."

"Now those not quite up to Mont Blanc?" asked Ardan, hardly knowing what
to say.

"Here they are, about half a dozen of them: _Moretus_, _Theophilus_,
_Harpalus_, _Eratosthenes_, _Werner_, and _Piccolomini_," answered
Barbican as ready as a schoolboy reciting his lesson, and pointing them
out on the map as quickly as a compositor distributing his type.

"The next in rank?" asked Ardan, astounded at his friend's wonderful
memory.

"The next in rank," replied Barbican promptly, "are those about the size
of the Matterhorn, that is to say about 2-3/4 miles in height. They are
_Macrobius_, _Delambre_, and _Conon_. Come," he added, seeing Ardan
hesitating and at a loss what other question to ask, "don't you want to
know what lunar mountains are about the same height as the Peak of
Teneriffe? or as Ætna? or as Mount Washington? You need not be afraid of
puzzling me. I studied up the subject thoroughly, and therefore know all
about it."

"Oh! I could listen to you with delight all day long!" cried Ardan,
enthusiastically, though with some embarrassment, for he felt a twinge
of conscience in acting so falsely towards his beloved friend. "The fact
is," he went on, "such a rational conversation as the present, on such
an absorbing subject, with such a perfect master--"

"The Sun!" cried M'Nicholl starting up and cheering. "He's cleared the
disc completely, and he's now himself again! Long life to him! Hurrah!"

