There I found the Pig, who now said he wished he had taken my offer
of beads, for he had spoken with his chief, and saw that I was right.
Baraka and the Wanguana were humbugs, and had they not opposed his
going, he would have gone then; even now, he said, he wished I would
take him again with Bombay. Though half inclined to accept his offer,
which would have saved a long trudge to Kaze, yet as he had tricked
me so often, I felt there would be no security unless I could get some
coast interpreters, who would not side with the chiefs against me as he
had done. From this I went on to Sirboko's, and spent the next day with
him talking over my plans. The rafting up the lake he thought a good
scheme; but he did not think I should ever get through Usui until all
the Kaze merchants went north in a body, for it was no use trying to
force my men against their inclinations; and if I did not take care how
I handled them, he thought they would all desert.

My cough still grew worse, and became so bad that, whilst mounting a
hill on entering Ungugu's the second day after, I blew and grunted like
a broken-winded horse, and it became so distressing I had to halt a day.
In two more marches, however, I reached Kaze, and put up with Musa's
eldest son, Abdalla, on the 2nd July, who now was transformed from a
drunken slovenly boy into the appearance of a grand swell, squatting all
day as his old father used to do. The house, however, did not feel the
same--no men respected him as they had done his father. Sheikh Said
was his clerk and constant companion, and the Tots were well fed on his
goats--at my expense, however. On hearing my fix, Abdalla said I should
have men; and, what's more, he would go with me as his father had
promised to do; but he had a large caravan detained in Ugogo, and for
that he must wait.

At that moment Manua Sera was in a boma at Kigue, in alliance with the
chief of that place; but there was no hope for him now, as all the Arabs
had allied themselves with the surrounding chiefs, including Kitambi;
and had invested his position by forming a line, in concentric circles,
four deep, cutting off his supplies of water within it, so that they
daily expected to hear of his surrendering. The last news that had
reached them brought intelligence of one man killed and two Arabs
wounded; whilst, on the other side, Manua Sera had lost many men, and
was put to such straits that he had called out if it was the Arabs'
determination to kill him he would bolt again; to which the Arabs
replied it was all the same; if he ran up to the top of the highest
mountain or down into hell, they would follow after and put him to
death.

3d.--After much bother and many disappointments, as I was assured I
could get no men to help me until after the war was over, and the Arabs
had been to Ugogo, and had brought up their property, which was still
lying there, I accepted two men as guides--one named Bui, a very small
creature, with very high pretensions, who was given me by Abdalla--the
other, a steady old traveller, named Nasib (or Fortune), who was given
me by Fundi Sangoro. These two slaves, both of whom knew all the chiefs
and languages up to and including Uganda, promised me faithfully they
would go with Bombay on to Usui, and bring back porters in sufficient
number for Grant and myself to go on together. They laughed at the
stories I told them of the terror that had seized Baraka and all the
Wanguana, and told me, as old Musa had often done before, that those
men, especially Baraka, had from their first leaving Kaze made up their
minds they would not enter Usui, or go anywhere very far north.

I placed those men on the same pay as Bombay, and then tried to buy
some beads from the Arabs, as I saw it was absolutely necessary I should
increase my fast-ebbing store if I ever hoped to reach Gondokoro. The
attempt failed, as the Arabs would not sell at a rate under 2000 per
cent.; and I wrote a letter to Colonel Rigby, ordering up fifty armed
men laden with beads and pretty cloths--which would, I knew, cost me
£1000 at the least--and left once more for the north on the 5th.

Marching slowly, as my men kept falling sick, I did not reach Grant
again until the 11th. His health had greatly improved, and he had been
dancing with Ukulima, as may be seen by the accompanying woodcut. So,
as I was obliged to wait for a short time to get a native guide for Bui,
Nasib and Bombay, who would show them a jungle-path to Usui, we enjoyed
our leisure hours in shooting guinea-fowls for the pot. A report then
came to us that Suwarora had heard with displeasure that I had
been endeavouring to see him, but was deterred because evil reports
concerning him had been spread. This unexpected good news delighted me
exceedingly; confirmed my belief that Baraka, after all, was a
coward, and induced me to recommend Bombay to make his cowardice more
indisputable by going on and doing what he had feared to do. To which
Bombay replied, "Of course I will. It is all folly pulling up for every
ill wind that blows, because, until one actually SEES there is something
in it, you never can tell amongst these savages--'shaves' are so common
in Africa. Besides, a man has but one life, and God is the director of
everything." "Bravo!" said I, "we will get on as long as you keep to
that way of thinking."

At length a guide was obtained, and with him came some of those men of
the Pig's who returned before; for they had a great desire to go with
me, but had been deterred, they said, by Baraka and the rest of my men.
Seeing all this, I changed my plans again, intending, on arrival at
Baraka's camp, to prevail on the whole of the party to go with me
direct, which I thought they could not now refuse, since Suwarora had
sent us an invitation. Moreover, I did not like the idea of remaining
still whilst the three men went forwards, as it would be losing time.

These separations from Grant were most annoying, but they could not
be helped; so, when all was settled here, I bade him adieu--both of us
saying we would do our best--and set out on my journey, thinking what a
terrible thing it was I could not prevail on my men to view things as
I did. Neither my experience with native chiefs, nor my money and guns,
were of any use to me, simply because my men were such incomprehensible
fools, though many of them who had travelled before ought to have known
better.

More reports came to us about Suwarora, all of the most inviting nature;
but nothing else worth mentioning occurred until we reached the border
of Msalala, where an officer of M'yonga's, who said he was a bigger man
than his chief, demanded a tax, which I refused, and the dispute ended
in his snatching Nasib's gun out of his hands. I thought little of this
affair myself, beyond regretting the delay which it might occasion, as
M'yonga, I knew, would not permit such usage, if I chose to go round by
his palace and make a complaint. Both Bui and Nasib, however, were so
greatly alarmed, that before I could say a word they got the gun back
again by paying four yards merikani. We had continued bickering again,
for Bui had taken such fright at this kind of rough handling, and the
"push-ahead" manner in which I persisted "riding over the lords of the
soil," that I could hardly drag the party along.

However, on the 18th, after breakfasting at Ruhe's, we walked into
Mihambo, and took all the camp by surprise. I found the Union Jack
hoisted upon a flag-staff, high above all the trees, in the boma. Baraka
said he had done this to show the Watuta that the place was occupied
by men with guns--a necessary precaution, as all the villages in the
neighbourhood had, since my departure, been visited and plundered by
them. Lumeresi, the chief of the district, who lived ten miles to the
eastward, had been constantly pressing him to leave this post and come
to his palace, as he felt greatly affronted at our having shunned him
and put up with Ruhe. He did not want property, he said, but he could
not bear that the strangers had lived with his mtoto, or child,
which Ruhe was, and yet would not live with him. He thought Baraka's
determined obstinacy on this could only be caused by the influence of
the head man of the village, and threatened that if Baraka did not
come to visit him at once, he would have the head man beheaded. Then,
shifting round a bit, he thought of ordering his subjects to starve the
visitors into submission, and said he must have a hongo equal to Ruhe's.
To all this Baraka replied, that he was merely a servant, and as he had
orders to stop where he was, he could not leave it until I came; but to
show there was no ill-feeling towards him, he sent the chief a cloth.

These first explanations over, I entered my tent, in which Baraka had
been living, and there I found a lot of my brass wires on the ground,
lying scattered about. I did not like the look of this, so ordered
Bombay to resume his position of factotum, and count over the kit.
Whilst this was going on, a villager came to me with a wire, and asked
me to change it for a cloth. I saw at once what the game was; so I asked
my friend where he got it, on which he at once pointed to Baraka. I
then heard the men who were standing round us say one to another in
under-tones, giggling with the fun of it, "Oh, what a shame of him! Did
you hear what Bana said, and that fool's reply to it? What a shame of
him to tell in that way." Without appearing to know, or rather to hear,
the by-play that was going on, I now said to Baraka, "How is it this
man has got one of my wires, for I told you not to touch or unpack
them during my absence?" To which he coolly replied, in face of such
evidence, "It is not one of your wires; I never gave away one of yours;
there are lots more wires besides yours in the country. The man tells
a falsehood; he had the wire before, but now, seeing your cloth open,
wants to exchange it." "If that is the case," I said, taking things
easy, "how is it you have opened my loads and scattered the wires about
in the tent?" "Oh, that was to take care of them; for I thought, if
they were left outside all night with the rest of the property, some one
would steal them, and I should get the blame of it."

Further parley was useless; for, though both my wires and cloths were
short, still it was better not to kick up a row, when I had so much
to do to keep all my men in good temper for the journey. Baraka then,
wishing to beguile me, as he thought he could do, into believing him a
wonderful man for both pluck and honesty, said he had had many battles
to fight with the men since I had been gone to Kaze, for there were
two strong parties in the camp; those who, during the late rebellion at
Zanzibar, had belonged to the Arabs that sided with Sultan Majid, and
were royalists, and those who, having belonged to the rebellious Arabs,
were on the opposite side. The battle commenced, he stated, by the one
side abusing the other for their deeds during that rebellion, the rebels
in this sort of contest proving themselves the stronger. But he, heading
the royalist party, soon reduced them to order, though only for a short
while, as from that point they turned round to open mutiny for more
rations; and some of the rebels tried to kill him, which, he said, they
would have done had he not settled the matter by buying some cows for
them. It was on this account he had been obliged to open my loads. And
now he had told me the case, he hoped I would forgive him if he had done
wrong. Now, the real facts of the case were these--though I did not find
them out at the time:--Baraka had bought some slaves with my effects,
and he had had a fight with some of my men because they tampered with
his temporary wife--a princess he had picked up in Phunze. To obtain
her hand he had given ten necklaces of MY beads to her mother, and had
agreed to the condition that he should keep the girl during the journey;
and after it was over, and he took her home, he would, if his wife
pleased him, give her mother ten necklaces more.

Next day Baraka told me his heart shrank to the dimensions of a very
small berry when he saw whom I had brought with me yesterday--meaning
Bombay, and the same porters whom he had prevented going on with me
before. I said, "Pooh, nonsense; have done with such excuses, and let us
get away out of this as fast as we can. Now, like a good man, just use
your influence with the chief of the village, and try and get from him
five or six men to complete the number we want, and then we will work
round the east of Sorombo up to Usui, for Suwarora has invited us to
him." This, however, was not so easy; for Lumeresi, having heard of my
arrival, sent his Wanyapara, or grey-beards, to beg I would visit him.
He had never seen a white man in all his life, neither had his father,
nor any of his forefathers, although he had often been down to the
coast; I must come and see him, as I had seen his mtoto Ruhe. He did not
want property; it was only the pleasure of my company that he wanted,
to enable him to tell all his friends what a great man had lived in his
house.

This was terrible: I saw at once that all my difficulties in Sorombo
would have to be gone through again if I went there, and groaned when I
thought what a trick the Pig had played me when I first of all came
to this place; for if I had gone on then, as I wished, I should have
slipped past Lumeresi without his knowing it.

I had to get up a storm at the grey-beards, and said I could not stand
going out of my road to see any one now, for I had already lost so much
time by Makaka's trickery in Sorombo. Bui then, quaking with fright
at my obstinacy, said, "You must--indeed you must--give in and do with
these savage chiefs as the Arabs when they travel, for I will not be
a party to riding rough-shod over them." Still I stuck out, and the
grey-beards departed to tell their chief of it. Next morning he sent
them back to say he would not be cheated out of his rights as the chief
of the district. Still I would not give in, and the whole day kept
"jawing" without effect, for I could get no man to go with me until
the chief gave his sanction. I then tried to send Bombay off with Bui,
Nasib, and their guide, by night; but though Bombay was willing, the
other two hung back on the old plea. In this state of perplexity, Bui
begged I would allow him to go over to Lumeresi and see what he could do
with a present. Bui really now was my only stand-by, so I sent him off,
and next had the mortification to find that he had been humbugged by
honeyed words, as Baraka had been with Makaka, into believing that
Lumeresi was a good man, who really had no other desire at heart than
the love of seeing me. His boma, he said, did not lie much out of my
line, and he did not wish a stitch of my cloth. So far from detaining
me, he would give me as many men as I wanted; and, as an earnest of
his good intentions, he sent his copper hatchet, the badge of office as
chief of the district, as a guarantee for me.

To wait there any longer after this, I knew, would be a mere waste of
time, so I ordered my men to pack up that moment, and we all marched
over at once to Lumeresi's, when we put up in his boma. Lumeresi was
not in then, but, on his arrival at night, he beat all his drums to
celebrate the event, and fired a musket, in reply to which I fired
three shots. The same night, whilst sitting out to make astronomical
observations, I became deadly cold--so much so, that the instant I had
taken the star, to fix my position, I turned into bed, but could not get
up again; for the cough that had stuck to me for a month then became so
violent, heightened by fever succeeding the cold fit, that before the
next morning I was so reduced that I could not stand. For the last
month, too, I had not been able to sleep on either side, as interior
pressure, caused by doing so, provoked the cough; but now I had, in
addition, to be propped in position to get any repose whatever. The
symptoms, altogether, were rather alarming, for the heart felt inflamed
and ready to burst, pricking and twingeing with every breath, which was
exceedingly aggravated by constant coughing, when streams of phlegm and
bile were ejected. The left arm felt half-paralysed, the left nostril
was choked with mucus, and on the centre of the left shoulder blade I
felt a pain as if some one was branding me with a hot iron. All this
was constant; and, in addition, I repeatedly felt severe pains--rather
paroxysms of fearful twinges--in the spleen, liver, and lungs; whilst
during my sleep I had all sorts of absurd dreams: for instance--I
planned a march across Africa with Sir Roderick Murchison; and I fancied
some curious creatures, half-men and half-monkeys, came into my camp to
inform me that Petherick was waiting in boats at the south-west corner
of the N'yanza, etc., etc.

Though my mind was so weak and excited when I woke up from these
trances, I thought of nothing but the march, and how I could get out of
Lumeresi's hands. He, with the most benign countenance, came in to see
me, the very first thing in the morning, as he said, to inquire after my
health; when, to please him as much as I could, I had a guard of honour
drawn up at the tent door to fire a salute as he entered; then giving
him my iron camp-chair to sit upon, which tickled him much--for he
was very corpulent, and he thought its legs would break down with his
weight--we had a long talk, though it was as much as I could do to
remember anything, my brain was so excited and weak. Kind as he looked
and spoke, he forgot all his promises about coveting my property, and
scarcely got over the first salutation before he began begging for many
things that he saw, and more especially for a deole, in order that he
might wear it on all great occasions, to show his contemporaries what
a magnanimous man his white visitor was. I soon lost my temper whilst
striving to settle the hongo. Lumeresi would have a deole, and I would
not admit that I had one.

23d to 31st.--Next morning I was too weak to speak moderately, and
roared more like a madman than a rational being, as, breaking his faith,
he persisted in bullying me. The day after, I took pills and blistered
my chest all over, still Lumeresi would not let me alone, nor come to
any kind of terms until the 25th, when he said he would take a certain
number of pretty common cloths for his children if I would throw in a
red blanket for himself. I jumped at this concession with the greatest
eagerness, paid down my cloths on the spot; and, thinking I was free at
last, ordered a hammock to be slung on a pole, that I might leave the
next day. Next morning, however, on seeing me actually preparing to
start, Lumeresi found he could not let me go until I increased the tax
by three more cloths, as some of his family complained that they had got
nothing. After some badgering, I paid what he asked for, and ordered the
men to carry me out of the palace before anything else was done, for
I would not sleep another night where I was. Lumeresi then stood in my
way, and said he would never allow a man of his country to give me any
assistance until I was well, for he could not bear the idea of hearing
it said that, after taking so many cloths from me, he had allowed me to
die in the jungles--and dissuaded my men from obeying my orders.

In vain I appealed to his mercy, declaring that the only chance left me
of saving my life would be from the change of air in the hammock as I
marched along. He would not listen, professing humanity, whilst he meant
plunder; and I now found that he was determined not to beat the drum
until I had paid him some more, which he was to think over and settle
next day. When the next day came, he would not come near me, as he said
I must possess a deole, otherwise I would not venture on to Karague; for
nobody ever yet "saw" Rumanika without one. This suspension of business
was worse than the rows; I felt very miserable, and became worse. At
last, on my offering him anything that he might consider an equivalent
for the deole if he would but beat the drums of satisfaction, he said I
might consider myself his prisoner instead of his guest if I persisted
in my obstinacy in not giving him Rumanika's deole; and then again
peremptorily ordered all of his subjects not to assist me in moving a
load. After this, veering round for a moment on the generous tack, he
offered me a cow, which I declined.

1st to 4th.--Still I rejected the offered cow, until the 2nd, when,
finding him as dogged as ever, at the advice of my men I accepted it,
hoping thus to please him; but it was no use, for he now said he must
have two deoles, or he would never allow me to leave his palace. Every
day matters got worse and worse. Mfumbi, the small chief of Sorombo,
came over, in an Oily-Gammon kind of manner, to say Makaka had sent him
over to present his compliments to me, and express his sorrow on hearing
that I had fallen sick here. He further informed me that the road was
closed between this and Usui, for he had just been fighting there, and
had killed the chief Gomba, burnt down all his villages, and dispersed
all the men in the jungle, where they now resided, plundering every
man who passed that way. This gratuitous, wicked, humbugging terrifier
helped to cause another defeat. It was all nonsense, I knew, but both
Bui and Nasib, taking fright, begged for their discharges. In fearful
alarm and anxiety, I begged them to have patience and see the hongo
settled first, for there was no necessity, at any rate, for immediate
hurry; I wished them to go on ahead with Bombay, as in four days they
could reach Suwarora's. But they said they could not hear of it--they
would not go a step beyond this. All the chiefs on ahead would do the
same as Lumeresi; the whole country was roused. I had not even half
enough cloths to satisfy the Wasui; and my faithful followers would
never consent to be witness to my being "torn to pieces."

5th and 6th.--The whole day and half of the next went in discussions.
At last, able for the first time to sit up a little, I succeeded in
prevailing on Bui to promise he would go to Usui as soon as the hongo
was settled, provided, as he said, I took on myself all responsibilities
of the result. This cheered me so greatly, I had my chair placed under
a tree and smoked my first pipe. On seeing this, all my men struck up a
dance, to the sound of the drums, which they carried on throughout the
whole night, never ceasing until the evening of the next day. These
protracted caperings were to be considered as their congratulation for
my improvement in health; for, until I got into my chair, they always
thought I was going to die. They then told me, with great mirth and good
mimicry, of many absurd scenes which, owing to the inflamed state of
my brain, had taken place during my interviews with Lumeresi. Bombay at
this time very foolishly told Lumeresi, if he "really wanted a deole,"
he must send to Grant for one. This set the chief raving. He knew there
was one in my box, he said, and unless I gave it, the one with Grant
must be brought; for under no circumstances would he allow of my
proceeding northwards until that was given him. Bui and Nasib then gave
me the slip, and slept that night in a neighbouring boma without my
knowledge.

7th to 9th.--As things had now gone so far, I gave Lumeresi the deole I
had stored away for Rumanika, telling him, at the same time as he took
it, that he was robbing Rumanika, and not myself; but I hoped, now I
had given it, he would beat the drums. The scoundrel only laughed as
he wrapped my beautiful silk over his great broad shoulders, and said,
"Yes, this will complete our present of friendship; now then for the
hongo--I must have exactly double of all you have given." This Sorombo
trick I attributed to the instigation of Makaka, for these savages never
fail to take their revenge when they can. I had doubled back from his
country, and now he was cutting me off in front. I expected as much
when the oily blackguard Mfumbi came over from his chief to ask after my
health; so, judging from my experience with Makaka, I told Lumeresi at
once to tell me what he considered his due, for this fearful haggling
was killing me by inches. I had no more deoles, but would make that up
in brass wire. He then fixed the hongo at fifteen masango or brass wire
bracelets, sixteen cloths of sorts, and a hundred necklaces of samisami
or red coral beads, which was to pay for Grant as well as myself. I paid
it down on the spot; the drums beat the "satisfaction," and I ordered
the march with the greatest relief of mind possible.

But Bui and Nasib were not to be found; they had bolted. The shock
nearly killed me. I had walked all the way to Kaze and back again for
these men, to show mine a good example--had given them pay and treble
rations, the same as Bombay and Baraka--and yet they chose to desert.
I knew not what to do, for it appeared to me that, do what I would,
we would never succeed; and in my weakness of body and mind I actually
cried like a child over the whole affair. I would rather have died
than have failed in my journey, and yet failure seemed at this juncture
inevitable.

8th.--As I had no interpreters, and could not go forward myself, I made
up my mind at once to send back all my men with Bombay, to Grant; after
joining whom, Bombay would go back to Kaze again for other interpreters,
and on his return would pick up Grant, and bring him on here. This
sudden decision set all my men up in a flame; they swore it was no use
my trying to go on to Karague; they would not go with me; they did not
come here to be killed. If I chose to lose my life, it was no business
of theirs, but they would not be witness to it. They all wanted their
discharge at once; they would not run away, but must have a letter of
satisfaction, and then they would go back to their homes at Zanzibar.
But when they found they lost all their arguments and could not move
me, they said they would go back for Grant, but when they had done that
duty, then they would take their leave.

10th to 15th.--This business being at last settled, I wrote to Grant on
the subject, and sent all the men off who were not sick. Thinking then
how I could best cure the disease that was keeping me down, as I found
the blister of no use, I tried to stick a packing needle, used as a
seton, into my side; but finding it was not sharp enough, in such weak
hands a mine, to go through my skin, I got Baraka to try; and he failing
too, I then made him fire me, for the coughing was so incessant I could
get no sleep at night. I had now nothing whatever to think of but making
dodges for lying easy, and for relieving my pains, or else for cooking
strong broths to give me strength, for my legs were reduced to the
appearance of pipe-sticks, until the 15th, when Baraka, in the same
doleful manner as in Sorombo, came to me and said he had something to
communicate, which was so terrible, if I heard it I should give up the
march. Lumeresi was his authority, but he would not tell it until Grant
arrive. I said to him, "Let us wait till Grant arrives; we shall then
have some one with us who won't shrink from whispers"--meaning Bombay;
and so I let the matter drop for the time being. But when Grant came,
we had it out of him, and found this terrible mystery all hung on
Lumeresi's prognostications that we never should get through Usui with
so little cloth.

16th to 19th.--At night, I had such a terrible air-catching fit, and
made such a noise whilst trying to fill my lungs, that it alarmed all
the camp, so much so that my men rushed into my tent to see if I was
dying. Lumeresi, in the morning, then went on a visiting excursion into
the district, but no sooner left than the chief of Isamiro, whose place
lies close to the N'yanza, came here to visit him (17th); but after
waiting a day to make friends with me, he departed (18th), as I heard
afterwards, to tell his great Mhuma chief, Rohinda, the ruler of
Ukhanga, to which district this state of Bogue belongs, what sort of
presents I had given to Lumeresi. He was, in fact, a spy whom Rohinda
had sent to ascertain what exactions had been made from me, as he, being
the great chief, was entitled to the most of them himself. On Lumeresi's
return, all the men of the village, as well as mine, set up a dance,
beating the drums all day and all night.

20th to 21st.--Next night they had to beat their drums for a very
different purpose, as the Watuta, after lifting all of Makaka's cattle
in Sorombo, came hovering about, and declared they would never cease
fighting until they had lifted all those that Lumeresi harboured round
his boma; for it so happened that Lumeresi allowed a large party of
Watosi, alias Wahuma, to keep their cattle in large stalls all round his
boma, and these the Watuta had now set their hearts upon. After a little
reflection, however, they thought better of it, as they were afraid to
come in at once on account of my guns.

Most gladdening news this day came in to cheer me. A large mixed caravan
of Arabs and coast-men, arriving from Karague, announced that both
Rumanika and Suwarora were anxiously looking out for us, wondering why
we did not come. So great, indeed, was Suwarora's desire to see us, that
he had sent four men to invite us, and they would have been here now,
only that one of them fell sick on the way, and the rest had to stop for
him. I cannot say what pleasure this gave me; my fortune, I thought, was
made; and so I told Baraka, and pretended he did not believe the news to
be true. Without loss of time I wrote off to Grant, and got these men to
carry the letter.

Next day (22d) the Wasui from Suwarora arrived. They were a very gentle,
nice-dispositioned-looking set of men--small, but well knit together.
They advanced to my tent with much seeming grace; then knelt at my feet,
and began clapping their hands together, saying, at the same time, "My
great chief, my great chief, I hope you are well; for Suwarora, having
heard of your detention here, has sent us over to assure you that all
those reports that have been circulated regarding his ill-treatment of
caravans are without foundation; he is sorry for what has happened to
deter your march, and hopes you will at once come to visit him." I then
told them all that had happened--how Grant and myself were situated--and
begged them to assist me by going off to Grant's camp to inspire all the
men there with confidence, and bring my rear property to me--saying,
as they agreed to do so, "Here are some cloths and some beads for your
expenses, and when you return I will give you more." Baraka at once,
seeing this, told me they were not trustworthy, for at Mihambo an old
man had come there and tried to inveigle him in the same manner, but he
kicked him out of the camp, because he knew he was a touter, who wished
merely to allure him with sweet words to fleece him afterwards.