Produced by David Widger


MEMOIRS OF JACQUES CASANOVA de SEINGALT 1725-1798

TO PARIS AND PRISON, Volume 2d--The False Nun

THE RARE UNABRIDGED LONDON EDITION OF 1894 TRANSLATED BY ARTHUR MACHEN TO
WHICH HAS BEEN ADDED THE CHAPTERS DISCOVERED BY ARTHUR SYMONS.


THE FALSE NUN


CHAPTER XXI

Supper at My Casino With M. M. and M. de Bernis, the French Ambassador--A
Proposal from M. M.; I Accept It--Consequences--C. C. is Unfaithful to
Me, and I Cannot Complain

I felt highly pleased with the supper-party I had arranged with
M---- M----, and I ought to have been happy. Yet I was not so; but whence
came the anxiety which was a torment to me? Whence? From my fatal habit
of gambling. That passion was rooted in me; to live and to play were to
me two identical things, and as I could not hold the bank I would go and
punt at the ridotto, where I lost my money morning and night. That state
of things made me miserable. Perhaps someone will say to me:

"Why did you play, when there was no need of it, when you were in want of
nothing, when you had all the money you could wish to satisfy your
fancies?"

That would be a troublesome question if I had not made it a law to tell
the truth. Well, then, dear inquisitive reader, if I played with almost
the certainty of losing, although no one, perhaps, was more sensible than
I was to the losses made in gambling, it is because I had in me the evil
spirit of avarice; it is because I loved prodigality, and because my
heart bled when I found myself compelled to spend any money that I had
not won at the gaming-table. It is an ugly vice, dear reader, I do not
deny it. However, all I can say is that, during the four days previous to
the supper, I lost all the gold won for me by M---- M----

On the anxiously-expected day I went to my casino, where at the appointed
hour M---- M---- came with her friend, whom she introduced to me as soon as
he had taken off his mask.

'Tis not unpleasant, methinks, to hear her talk how at such a
time she was sick, and the physicians told her she would have the small-pox
and showed her where they were coming out upon her, but she bethought
herself that it was not at all convenient for her to have them at
that time; some business she had that required her going abroad,
and so she resolved she would not be sick nor was not.

Twenty such stories as these she tells, and then falls into discourses of
the strength of reason and power of philosophy till she confounds
herself and all that hear her. You have no such ladies in Ireland....
My poor Lady Vavasor is carried to the Tower, and her situation
could not excuse her, because she was acquainted by somebody that
there was a plot against the Protector, and did not discover it.

She has told now all that was told her, but vows she will never say
from whence she had it; we shall see whether her resolutions are as
unalterable as those of my Lady Talmash. I wonder how she behaved
herself when she was married; I never yet saw anybody that did not look
simply and out of countenance, nor ever knew a wedding well designed but
one, and that was of two persons who had time enough I confess to
contrive it, and nobody to please in it but themselves.

He came down into the country where she was upon a visit, and one morning
married her; as soon as they came out of the church, they took coach
and came for the town, dined at an Inn by the way, and at night came into
lodgings that were provided for them, where nobody knew them, and
where they passed for married people of seven years' standing.

The truth is I could not endure to be Mrs. Bride in a public wedding, to
be made the happiest person on earth; do not take it ill, for I
would endure it if I could, rather than fail, but in earnest I do not
think it were possible for me; you cannot apprehend the formalities of
a treaty more than I do, nor so much the success of it.

Yet in earnest your father will not find my brother Peyton wanting in
civility (though he is not a man of much compliment unless it be in his
letters to me), nor an unreasonable person in any thing so he will allow
him, out of his kindness to his wife, to set a higher value upon his
sister than she deserves. I know not how he may be prejudiced upon
the business, but he is not deaf to reason when it is civilly delivered,
and is as easily gained with compliance and good usage as any body I
know, but no other way; when he is roughly used he is like me ten times
the worse for it. I make it a case of conscience to discover my
faults to you as fast as I know them, that you may consider what you have
to do: my aunt told me no longer ago than yesterday, that I was
the most wilful woman that ever she knew, and had an obstinacy of
spirit nothing could overcome.

Take heed, you see I give you fair warning. I have missed a letter
this Monday, what is the reason?
By the next I shall be gone into Kent, and my other journey is laid
aside, which I am not displeased at, because it would have broken our
intercourse very much. Here are some verses of Cowley's; pray tell me how
you like them. It is only a piece taken out of a new thing of his. The
whole is very long, and is a description of, or rather a paraphrase
upon, the friendships of David and Jonathan. 'Tis I think the best I have
seen of his, and I like the subject because it is that I would be perfect
in.

Adieu!

KATHARINE PHILIPS
1631-1664 

ORINDA TO THE HONOURABLE BERENICE
_Yielding to opinion_ 

Priory of Cardigan, _25 June_
Your Ladyship's last favour from Coll.

P----'s was truly obliging, and carried so much of the same great
soul of yours, which loves to diffuse itself in expressions of friendship
to me, that it merits a great deal more acknowledgement than I am
able to pay at my best condition, and am less now when my head
aches, and will give me no leave to enlarge, though I have so much
subject and reason; but really if my heart ached too, I could be
sensible of a very great kindness and condescension in thinking me
worthy of your concern, though I visibly perceive most of my letters
have lost their way to your Ladyship.

I beseech you be pleased first to believe I have written every post;
but, secondly, since I came, and then to enquire for them, that
they may be commended into your hands, where alone they can hope
for a favourable residence; I am very much a sharer by sympathy,
in your Ladyship's satisfaction in the converse you had in the
country, and find that to that ingenious company Fortune hath been
just, there being no person fitter to receive all the admiration
of persons best capable to pay them, than the great _Berenice_....

And now (madam) why was that a cruel question, When will you come to
_Wales_?

'Tis cruel to me, I confess, that it is yet in question, but I humbly beg
your Ladyship to unriddle that part of your letter, for I cannot
understand why you, madam, who have no persons alive to whom your
birth hath submitted you, and have already by your life secured to
yourself the best opinion the world can give you, should create an
awe upon your own actions, from imaginary inconveniences: Happiness,
I confess, is two-faced, and one is opinion; but that opinion is
certainly _our own_; for it were equally ridiculous and impossible
to shape our _actions_ by others' _opinions_.

I have had so much (and some sad) reason to discuss this principle,
that I can speak with some confidence, That _none will ever be happy,
who make their happiness to consist in, or be governed by the votes
of other persons._ I deny not but the approbation of wise and good
persons is a very necessary satisfaction; but to forbear innocent
contentments, only because it's possible some fancies may be so
capricious as to dispute whether I should have taken them, is, in my
belief, neither better nor worse than to fast always, because there
are some so superstitious in the world, that will abstain from meat,
upon some score or other, upon every day in the year, that is, some
upon some days, and others upon others, and some upon all.

You know, madam, there is nothing so various as _vulgar opinion_, nothing
so untrue to itself. Who shall then please since none can fix it? 'Tis
heresy (this of submitting to every blast of popular extravagancy)
which I have combated in persons very dear to me; _Dear madam_,
let them not have your authority for a relapse, when I had almost
committed them; but consider it without a bias, and give sentence
as you see cause; and in that interim put me not off (_Dear madam_)
with those chimeras, but tell me plainly what inconvenience is it
to come?

If it be one in earnest, I will submit, but otherwise, I am so much my
own friend, and my friend's friend, as not to be satisfied with your
Ladyship's taking measure of your actions by others' opinion,
when I know too that the severest could find nothing in this journey that
they could condemn, but your excess of charity to me, and that
censure you have already supported with patience, and (notwithstanding
my own consciousness of no ways deserving your sufferance upon that score)
I cannot beg you to recover the reputation of your judgement in
that particular, since it must be my ruin.

I should now say very much for your most obliging commands to me, to
write, and should beg frequent letters from your Ladyship with all possible
importunity, and should by command from my _Lucasia_ excuse her
last rudeness (as she calls it) in giving you account of her honour
for you under her own hand, but I must beg your pardon now, and
out-believing all, I can say upon every one of these accounts, for
really, madam, you cannot tell how to imagine any person more to
any one, than I am,
_Madam, Your Ladyship's most faithful servant, and passionate
friend_, ORINDA 

JOHN LOCKE 
1632-1704 

TO WILLIAM MOLYNEUX
_A philosopher's confidences_ 

Oates, 26 _April_, 1695.

SIR,

You look with the eyes, and speak the language of friendship, when
you make my life of much more concern to the world than your own. I take
it, as it is, for an effect of your kindness, and so shall not accuse
you of compliment; the mistakes and over-valuings of good-will being
always sincere, even when they exceed what common truth allows. This
on my side I must beg you to believe, that my life would be much more
pleasant and useful to me, if you were within my reach, that I might
sometimes enjoy your conversation, and, upon twenty occasions, lay my
thoughts before you, and have the advantage of your judgement. I cannot
complain that I have not my share of friends of all ranks, and such,
whose interest, assistance, affection, and opinions too, in fit cases,
I can rely on. But methinks, for all this, there is one place vacant,
that I know nobody that would so well fill as yourself; I want one near
me to talk freely with, _de quolibet ente_; to propose to the extravagancies
that rise in my mind; one with whom I would debate several doubts and
questions, to see what was in them. Meditating by one's self, is
like digging in the mine; it often, perhaps, brings up maiden
earth, which never came near the light before; but whether it
contains any metal in it, is never so well tried as in conversation
with a knowing judicious friend who carries about with him the true
touchstone, which is love of truth in a clear-thinking head.

Men of parts and judgement the world usually gets hold of, and by a great
mistake (that their abilities of mind are lost, if not employed in the
pursuit of wealth or power) engages them in the ways of fortune and interest,
which usually leave but little freedom or leisure of thought for pure
disinterested truth. And such who give themselves up frankly, and in
earnest to the full latitude of real knowledge, are not everywhere
to be met with. Wonder not, therefore, that I wish so much for you
in my neighbourhood; I should be too happy in a friend of your make,
were you within my reach. But yet I cannot but wish that some business
would once bring you within distance; and it is a pain to me to
think of leaving the world without the happiness of seeing you.

I do not wonder that a kinsman of yours should magnify civilities that
scarce deserve the name; I know not wherein they consisted, but in being
glad to see one that was in any way related to you, and was himself a very
ingenious man; either of those was a title to more than I did, or could
show him. I am sorry I have not yet had an opportunity to wait on him in
London; and I fear he should be gone before I am able to get thither. This
long winter, and cold spring, has hung very heavy upon my lungs, and
they are not yet in a case to be ventured in London air, which must be
my excuse for not waiting upon him and Dr.
Ashe yet.

The third edition of my essay has already, or will be speedily, in the
press. But what perhaps will seem stranger, and possibly please you
better, an abridgement is now making (if it be not already done)
by one of the university of Oxford, for the use of young scholars,
in the place of the ordinary system of logic.

From the acquaintance I had of the temper of that place I did not expect
to have it get much footing there. But so it is, I some time since received
a very civil letter from one, wholly a stranger to me there, concerning
such a design; and by another from him since, I conclude it near done.
He seems to be an ingenious man, and he writes sensibly about it, but
I can say nothing of it till I see it; and he, of his own accord, has
offered that it shall be wholly submitted to my opinion, and disposal of
it. And thus, sir, possibly that which you once proposed may be attained
to, and I was pleased with the gentleman's design for your
sake.

You are a strange man, you oblige me very much by the care you take to
have it well translated, and you thank me for complying with your
offer.

In my last, as I remember, I told you the reason why it was so long before
I writ, was an expectation of an answer from London, concerning something
I had to communicate to you: it was in short this; I was willing
to know what my bookseller would give for a good latin copy; he
told me, at last, twenty pounds.

His delay was, because he would first have known what the translator
demanded. But I forced him to make his proposal, and so I send it to you,
to make what use of it you please. He since writ me word, that a friend
of his at Oxford would, in some time, be at leisure to do it, and would
undertake it. I bid him excuse himself to him, for that it was in hands
I approved of, and some part of it now actually done.

For I hope the essay (he was to show you the next week after you writ to
me last) pleased you. Think it not a compliment, that I desire you to
make what alterations you think fit. One thing particularly you will
oblige me and the world in, and that is, in paring off some of the superfluous
repetitions, which I left in for the sake of illiterate men, and the
softer sex, not used to abstract notions and reasonings. But much of
this reasoning will be out of doors in a latin translation.

I refer all to your judgement, and so am secure it will be done as is
best.

What I shall add concerning enthusiasm, I guess, will very much agree with
your thoughts, since yours jump so right with mine, about the place where
it is to come in, I having designed it for chap. 18, lib.
iv, as a false principle of reasoning often made use of.

But, to give an historical account of the various ravings men have
embraced for religion, would, I fear, be besides my purpose, and be enough
to make an huge volume.

My opinion of P.

Malebranche agrees perfectly with yours. What I have writ concerning
'seeing all things in God', would make a little treatise of itself. But
I have not quite gone through it, for fear I should by somebody or
other be tempted to print it. For I love not controversies, and have a
personal kindness for the author. When I have the happiness to see you,
we will consider it together, and you shall dispose of it.

I think I shall make some other additions to be put into your latin
translation, and particularly concerning the 'connection of ideas',
which has not, that I know, been hitherto considered, and has, I
guess, a greater influence upon our minds than is usually taken
notice of.

Thus, you see, I make you the confident of my reveries; you would be
troubled with a great many more of them, were you nearer.

TO DR. MOLYNEUX
_True friendship_

Oates, 27 _Oct._ 1698.

SIR,
Death has, with a violent hand, hastily snatched from you a dear
brother.

I doubt not but, on this occasion, you need all the consolation can be
given to one unexpectedly bereft of so worthy and near a relation.
Whatever inclination I may have to alleviate your sorrow, I bear too
great a share in the loss, and am too sensibly touched with it myself,
to be in a condition to discourse with you on this subject, or do any thing
but mingle my tears with yours. I have lost, in your brother, not
only an ingenious and learned acquaintance, all that the world esteemed;
but an intimate and sincere friend, whom I truly loved, and by
whom I was truly loved: and what a loss that is, those only can be
sensible who know how valuable, and how scarce, a true friend is,
and how far to be preferred to all other sorts of treasure.

He has left a son, who I know was dear to him, and deserved to
be so as much as was possible, for one of his age. I cannot think myself
wholly incapacitated from paying some of the affection and service that
was due from me to my dear friend, as long as he has a child, or a
brother, in the world.
I congratulated them upon
the mutual inclination they felt for each other, and I saw that they were
pleased not to have to blush on that account.

More than one hour was spent in gallant and friendly conversation,
without my giving any satisfaction to my burning desires.
M---M---- attracted me more than C---- C----, but I would not for the world
have offended the charming girl. M---- M---- was beginning to shew some
anxiety about the absence of M. de Bernis, when the door-keeper brought
her a note from him.

"A courier," he wrote, "who arrived two hours ago, prevents my being
happy to-night, for I am compelled to pass it in answering the dispatches
I have received. I trust that you will forgive and pity me. May I hope
that you will kindly grant me on Friday the pleasure of which I am so
unfortunately deprived to-day? Let me know your answer by to-morrow. I
wish ardently, in that case, to find you with the same guests, to whom I
beg you will present my affectionate compliments."

"Well," said M---- M----, "it is not his fault. We will sup without him.
Will you come on Friday?"

"Yes, with the greatest pleasure. But what is the matter with you, dear
C---- C----? You look sad."

"Sad, no, unless it should be for the sake of my friend, for I have never
seen a more polite and more obliging gentleman."

"Very well, dear, I am glad he has rendered you so sensible."

"What do you mean? Could anyone be insensible to his merit?"

"Better still, but I agree with you. Only tell me if you love him?"

"Well, even if I loved him, do you think I would go and tell him?
Besides, I am certain that he loves my friend."

So saying, she sat down on M---- M----'s knee, calling her her own little
wife, and my two beauties began to bestow on one another caresses which
made me laugh heartily. Far from troubling their sport, I excited them,
in order to enjoy a spectacle with which I had long been acquainted.

M---- M---- took up a book full of the most lascivious engravings, and
said, with a significant glance in my direction:

"Do you wish me to have a fire lighted in the alcove?"

I understood her, and replied:

"You would oblige me, for the bed being large we can all three sleep
comfortably in it."

I guessed that she feared my suspecting the ambassador of enjoying from
the mysterious closet the sight of our amorous trio, and she wished to
destroy that suspicion by her proposal.

The table having been laid in front of the alcove, supper was served, and
we all did honour to it. We were all blessed with a devouring appetite.
While M---- M---- was teaching her friend how to mix punch, I was admiring
with delight the progress made in beauty by C---- C----.

"Your bosom," I said to her, "must have become perfect during the last
nine months."

"It is like mine," answered M---- M----, "would you like to see for
yourself?"

Of course I did not refuse. M---- M---- unlaced her friend, who made no
resistance, and performing afterwards the same office upon herself, in
less than two minutes I was admiring four rivals contending for the
golden apple like the three goddesses, and which would have set at
defiance the handsome Paris himself to adjudge the prize without
injustice. Need I say what an ardent fire that ravishing sight sent
coursing through my veins? I placed immediately an the table the Academie
des Dames, and pointed out a certain position to M---- M----, who,
understanding my wishes, said to C---- C---- :

"Will you, darling, represent that group with me?"

A look of compliance was C---- C----'s only answer; she was not yet inured
to amorous pleasures as much as her lovely teacher. While I was laughing
with delight, the two friends were getting ready, and in a few minutes we
were all three in bed, and in a state of nature. At first, satisfied with
enjoying the sight of the barren contest of my two bacchanalians, I was
amused by their efforts and by the contrast of colours, for one was dark
and the other fair, but soon, excited myself, and consumed by all the
fire of voluptuousness, I threw myself upon them, and I made them, one
after the other, almost faint away from the excess of love and enjoyment.

Worn out and satiated with pleasure, I invited them to take some rest. We
slept until we were awakened by the alarum, which I had taken care to set
at four o'clock. We were certain of turning to good account the two hours
we had then to spare before parting company, which we did at the dawn of
day, humiliated at having to confess our exhaustion, but highly pleased
with each other, and longing for a renewal of our delightful pleasures.

The next day, however, when I came to think of that rather too lively
night, during which, as is generally the case, Love had routed Reason, I
felt some remorse. M---- M---- wanted to convince me of her love, and for
that purpose she had combined all the virtues which I attached to my own
affection--namely, honour, delicacy, and truth, but her temperament, of
which her mind was the slave, carried her towards excess, and she
prepared everything in order to give way to it, while she awaited the
opportunity of making me her accomplice. She was coaxing love to make it
compliant, and to succeed in mastering it, because her heart, enslaved by
her senses, never reproached her. She likewise tried to deceive herself
by endeavouring to forget that I might complain of having been surprised.
She knew that to utter such a complaint I would have to acknowledge
myself weaker or less courageous than she was, and she relied upon my
being ashamed to make such a confession. I had no doubt whatever that the
absence of the ambassador had been arranged and concerted beforehand. I
could see still further, for it seemed evident to me that the two
conspirators had foreseen that I would guess the artifice, and that,
feeling stung to the quick, in spite of all my regrets, I would not shew
myself less generous than they had been themselves. The ambassador having
first procured me a delightful night, how could I refuse to let him enjoy
as pleasant a one? My friends had argued very well, for, in spite of all
the objections of my mind, I saw that I could not on my side put any
obstacle in their way. C---- C---- was no impediment to them. They were
certain of conquering her the moment she was not hindered by my presence.
It rested entirely with M---- M----, who had perfect control over her.
Poor girl! I saw her on the high road to debauchery, and it was my own
doing! I sighed when I thought how little I had spared them in our last
orgie, and what would become of me if both of them should happen to be,
by my doing, in such a position as to be compelled to run away from the
convent? I could imagine both of them thrown upon my hands, and the
prospect was not particularly agreeable. It would be an 'embarras de
richesse'. In this miserable contest between reason and prejudice,
between nature and sentiment, I could not make up my mind either to go to
the supper or to remain absent from it. "If I go," said I to myself,
"that night will pass with perfect decency, but I shall prove myself very
ridiculous, jealous, ungrateful, and even wanting in common politeness:
if I remain absent, C---- C---- is lost, at least, in my estimation, for I
feel that my love will no longer exist, and then good-bye to all idea of
a marriage with her." In the perplexity of mind in which I found myself,
I felt a want of something more certain than mere probabilities to base
my decision upon. I put on my mask, and repaired to the mansion of the
French ambassador. I addressed myself to the gate-keeper, saying that I
had a letter for Versailles, and that I would thank him to deliver it to
the courier when he went back to France with his excellency's dispatches.

"But, sir," answered the man, "we have not had a special courier for the
last two months:"

"What? Did not a special cabinet messenger arrive here last night?"

"Then he must have come in through the garret window or down the chimney,
for, on the word of an honest man, none entered through the gate."

"But the ambassador worked all night?"

"That may be, sir, but not here, for his excellency dined with the
Spanish ambassador, and did not return till very late:"

I had guessed rightly. I could no longer entertain any doubt. It was all
over; I could not draw back without shame. C---- C---- must resist, if the
game was distasteful to her; no violence would of course be offered to
her. The die was cast!

Towards evening I went to the casino of Muran, and wrote a short note to
M---- M----, requesting her to excuse me if some important business of M.
de Bragadin's prevented me from spending the night with her and with our
two friends, to whom I sent my compliments as well as my apologies. After
that I returned to Venice, but in rather an unpleasant mood; to divert
myself I went to the gaming table, and lost all night.

Two days afterwards, being certain that a letter from M---- M---- awaited
me at Muran, I went over, and the door-keeper handed me a parcel in which
I found a note from my nun and a letter from C---- C----, for everything
was now in common between them.

Here is C---- C----'s letter."

"We were very sorry, dearest friend, when we heard that we should not
have the happiness of seeing you. My dear M---- M----'s friend came
shortly afterwards, and when he read your note he likewise expressed his
deep regret. We expected to have a very dull supper, but the witty
sayings of that gentleman enlivened us and you cannot imagine of what
follies we were guilty after partaking of some champagne punch. Our
friend had become as gay as ourselves, and we spent the night in trios,
not very fatiguing, but very pleasant. I can assure you that that man
deserves to be loved, but he must acknowledge himself inferior to you in
everything. Believe me, dearest, I shall ever love you, and you must for
ever remain the master of my heart."

In spite of all my vexation, that letter made me laugh, but the note of
M---- M---- was much more singular. Here are the contents of it:

"I am certain, my own beloved, that you told a story out of pure
politeness, but you had guessed that I expected you to do so. You have
made our friend a splendid present in exchange for the one he made you
when he did not object to his M---- M---- bestowing her heart upon you. You
possess that heart entirely, dearest, and you would possess it under all
circumstances, but how sweet it is to flavour the pleasures of love with
the charms of friendship! I was sorry not to see you, but I knew that if
you had come we would not have had much enjoyment; for our friend,
notwithstanding all his wit, is not exempt from some natural prejudices.
As for C---- C----, her mind is now quite as free of them as our own, and
I am glad she owes it to me. You must feel thankful to me for having
completed her education, and for rendering her in every way worthy of
you. I wish you had been hiding in the closet, where I am certain you
would have spent some delightful hours. On Wednesday next I shall be
yours, and all alone with you in your casino in Venice; let me know
whether you will be at the usual hour near the statue of the hero
Colleoni. In case you should be prevented, name any other day."

I had to answer those two letters in the same spirit in which they had
been written, and in spite of all the bitter feelings which were then
raging in my heart, my answers were to be as sweet as honey. I was in
need of great courage, but I said to myself: "George Dandin, tu las
voulu!" I could not refuse to pay the penalty of my own deeds, and I have
never been able to ascertain whether the shame I felt was what is called
shamefacedness. It is a problem which I leave to others.

In my letter to C---- C---- I had the courage, or the effrontery, to
congratulate her, and to encourage her to imitate M---- M----, the best
model, I said, I could propose to her.

I wrote to my nun that I would be punctual at the appointment near the
statue, and amidst many false compliments, which ought to have betrayed
the true state of my heart, I told her that I admired the perfect
education she had given to C---- C----, but that I congratulated myself
upon having escaped the torture I should have suffered in the mysterious
observatory, for I felt that I could not have borne it.

On the Wednesday I was punctual at the rendezvous, and I had not to wait
long for M---- M----, who came disguised in male attire. "No theatre
to-night," she said to me; "let us go to the 'ridotto', to lose or double
our money." She had six hundred sequins. I had about one hundred. Fortune
turned her back upon us, and we lost all. I expected that we would then
leave that cutthroat place, but M---- M----, having left me for a minute,
came back with three hundred sequins which had been given to her by her
friend, whom she knew where to find. That money given by love or by
friendship brought her luck for a short time, and she soon won back all
we had lost, but in our greediness or imprudence we continued to play,
and finally we lost our last sequin.

When we could play no longer, M---- M---- said to me,

"Now that we need not fear thieves, let us go to our supper."

That woman, religious and a Free-thinker, a libertine and gambler, was
wonderful in all she did. She had just lost five hundred pounds, and she
was as completely at her ease as if she had won a very large sum. It is
true that the money she had just lost had not cost her much.

As soon as we were alone, she found me sad and low-spirited, although I
tried hard not to appear so, but, as for her, always the same, she was
handsome, brilliant, cheerful, and amorous.

She thought she would bring back my spirits by giving me the fullest
particulars of the night she had passed with C---- C---- and her friend,
but she ought to have guessed that she was going the wrong way. That is a
very common error, it comes from the mind, because people imagine that
what they feel themselves others must feel likewise.

I was on thorns, and I tried everything to avoid that subject, and to
lead the conversation into a different channel, for the amorous
particulars, on which she was dwelling with apparent delight, vexed me
greatly, and spite causing coldness, I was afraid of not playing my part
very warmly in the amorous contest which was at hand. When a lover doubts
his own strength, he may almost always be sure that he will fail in his
efforts.

After supper we went to bed in the alcove, where the beauty, the mental
and physical charms, the grace and the ardour of my lovely nun, cast all
my bad temper to the winds, and soon restored me to my usual
good-spirits. The nights being shorter we spent two hours in the most
delightful pleasures, and then parted, satisfied and full of love.

_North_.--God bless you, my dearest James! shake hands.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

* * * * *

POPULAR PHILOSOPHY.

_Dr. Arnott's Elements of Physics._
Vol. ii. Part I.

We are warm friends to the diffusion of knowledge, and accordingly receive
the present portion of Dr.

Arnott's work with much satisfaction.
We believe the sale of the first volume to have been almost unprecedentedly
rapid, (a _fourth_ edition being called for within two years) in comparison
with the usual slow sale of _scientific_ works.
This success may easily be traced. The title of the work is not extraordinarily
inviting, illustration, not embellishment, is attempted in a few outline
diagrams, and the only external inducement to read, is a plain,
legible type, to suit all sights.

Looking further, we find the great cause in the manner as well as the matter
of the volume, which is throughout a text-book of _plain-spoken philosophy_,
or as the author says in his title-page, "independently of technical
mathematics." Again, in his introductory chapter on "Imponderable
Substances," he says, "To understand the subjects as far as men yet
usefully understand them, and sufficiently for a vast number of
most useful purposes, it is only necessary to classify important
phenomena, so that their nature and resemblances may be clearly
perceived." The main error of most people who write on philosophical
subjects, or the stumbling-block of all students, has been that of
the writer presuming too much upon the cultivated understanding of
his reader. Thus, in the midst of very familiar explanations we
have often seen technicalities which must operate as a wet blanket
on the enthusiasm of the reader; and break up the charm which the
subject had hitherto created.We thus left the new lovers free to be as gay as they chose. Six
hours afterwards, when the alarum warned us that it was time to part, we
found them asleep in each other's embrace. I had myself passed an amorous
and quiet night, pleased with M---- M----, and with out giving one thought
to C---- C----.


CHAPTER XXII

M. De Bernis Goes Away Leaving Me the Use of His Casino--His Good Advice:
How I Follow It--Peril of M. M. and Myself--Mr. Murray, the English
Ambassador--Sale of the Casino and End of Our Meetings--Serious Illness
of M. M.--Zorzi and Condulmer--Tonnie

Though the infidelities of C---- C---- made me look at her with other eyes
than before, and I had now no intention of making her the companion of my
life, I could not help feeling that it had rested with me to stop her on
the brink of the stream, and I therefore considered it my duty always to
be her friend.

If I had been more logical, the resolution I took with respect to her
would doubtless have been of another kind. I should have said to myself:
After seducing her, I myself have set the example of infidelity; I have
bidden her to follow blindly the advice of her friend, although I knew
that the advice and the example of M---M---- would end in her ruin; I had
insulted, in the most grievous manner, the delicacy of my mistress, and
that before her very eyes, and after all this how could I ask a weak
woman to do what a man, priding himself on his strength, would shrink
from at tempting? I should have stood self-condemned, and have felt that
it was my duty to remain the same to her, but flattering myself that I
was overcoming mere prejudices, I was in fact that most degraded of
slaves, he who uses his strength to crush the weak.

The day after Shrove Tuesday, going to the casino of Muran, I found there
a letter from M---- M----, who gave me two pieces of bad news: that
C---- C---- had lost her mother, and that the poor girl was in despair; and
that the lay-sister, whose rheum was cured, had returned to take her
place. Thus C---- C---- was deprived of her friend at a time when she would
have given her consolation, of which she stood in great need. C---- C----,
it seemed, had gone to share the rooms of her aunt, who, being very fond
of her, had obtained permission from the superior. This circumstance
would prevent the ambassador taking any more suppers with her, and I
should have been delighted if chance had put this obstacle in his path a
few days sooner.

All these misfortunes seemed of small account com pared with what I was
afraid of, for C---- C---- might have to pay the price for her pleasures,
and I so far regarded myself as the origin of her unhappiness as to feel
bound never to abandon her, and this might have involved me in terrible
complications.

M---- M---- asked me to sup with her and her lover on the following Monday.
I went and found them both sad--he for the loss of his new mistress, and
she because she had no longer a friend to make the seclusion of the
convent pleasant.

About midnight M. de Bemis left us, saying in a melancholy manner that he
feared he should be obliged to pass several months in Vienna on important
diplomatic business. Before parting we agreed to sup together every
Friday.

When we were alone M---- M---- told me that the ambassador would be obliged
to me if in the future I would come to the casino two hours later. I
understood that the good-natured and witty profligate had a very natural
prejudice against indulging his amorous feelings except when he was
certain of being alone.

M. de Bemis came to all our suppers till he left for Vienna, and always
went away at midnight. He no longer made use of his hiding-place, partly
because we now only lay in the recess, and partly because, having had
time to make love before my arrival, his desires were appeased.
M---- M---- always found me amorous. My love, indeed, was even hotter than
it had been, since, only seeing her once a week and remaining faithful to
her, I had always an abundant harvest to gather in. C---- C----'s letters
which she brought to me softened me to tears, for she said that after the
loss of her mother she could not count upon the friendship of any of her
relations. She called me her sole friend, her only protector, and in
speaking of her grief in not being able to see me any more whilst she
remained in the convent, she begged me to remain faithful to her dear
friend.

On Good Friday, when I got to the casino, I found the lovers over-whelmed
with grief. Supper was served, but the ambassador, downcast and absent,
neither ate nor spoke; and M---- M---- was like a statue that moves at
intervals by some mechanism. Good sense and ordinary politeness prevented
me from asking any questions, but on M---- M---- leaving us together, M. de
Bemis told me that she was distressed, and with reason, since he was
obliged to set out for Vienna fifteen days after Easter. "I may tell you
confidentially," he added, "that I believe I shall scarcely be able to
return, but she must not be told, as she would be in despair."
M---- M---- came back in a few minutes, but it was easy to see that she had
been weeping.

After some commonplace conversation, M. de Bernis, seeing M---- M---- still
low-spirited, said,

"Do not grieve thus, sweetheart, go I must, but my return is a matter of
equal certainty when I have finished the important business which summons
me to Vienna. You will still have the casino, but, dearest, both
friendship and prudence make me advise you not to come here in my
absence, for after I have left Venice I cannot depend upon the faith of
the gondoliers in my service, and I suspect our friend here cannot
flatter himself on his ability to get reliable ones. I may also tell you
that I have strong reasons for suspecting that our intercourse is known
to the State Inquisitors, who conceal their knowledge for political
reasons, but I fancy the secret would soon come to light when I am no
longer here, and when the nun who connives at your departure from the
convent knows that it is no longer for me that you leave it. The only
people whom I would trust are the housekeeper and his wife. I shall order
them, before I go, to look upon our friend here as myself, and you can
make your arrangements with them. I trust all will go well till my
return, if you will only behave discreetly. I will write to you under
cover of the housekeeper, his wife will give you my letters as before,
and in the same way you may reply. I must needs go, dearest one, but my
heart is with you, and I leave you, till my return, in the hands of a
friend, whom I rejoice to have known. He loves you, he has a heart and
knowledge of the world, and he will not let you make any mistakes."

M---- M---- was so affected by what the ambassador had said that she
entreated us to let her go, as she wished to be alone and to lie down. As
she went we agreed to sup together on the following Thursday.

As soon as we were alone the ambassador impressed me with the absolute
necessity of concealing from her that he was going to return no more. "I
am going," said he, "to work in concert with the Austrian cabinet on a
treaty which will be the talk of Europe. I entreat you to write to me
unreservedly, and as a friend, and if you love our common mistress, have
a care for her honour, and above all have the strength of mind to resist
all projects which are certain to involve you in misfortune, and which
will be equally fatal to both. You know what happened to Madame de Riva,
a nun in the convent of St.----. She had to disappear after it became
known that she was with child, and M. de Frulai, my predecessor, went
mad, and died shortly after. J. J. Rousseau told me that he died of
poison, but he is a visionary who sees the black side of everything. For
my part, I believe that he died of grief at not being able to do anything
for the unfortunate woman, who afterwards procured a dispensation from
her vows from the Pope, and having got married is now living at Padua
without any position in society.

"Let the prudent and loyal friend master the lover: go and see
M---- M---- sometimes in the parlour of the convent, but not here, or the
boatmen will betray you. The knowledge which we both have that the girls
are in a satisfactory condition is a great alleviation to my distress,
but you must confess that you have been very imprudent. You have risked a
terrible misfortune; consider the position you would have been in, for I
am sure you would not have abandoned her. She had an idea that the danger
might be overcome by means of drugs but I convinced her that she was
mistaken. In God's name, be discreet in the future, and write to me
fully, for I shall always be interested in her fate, both from duty and
sentiment."

We returned together to Venice, where we separated, and I passed the rest
of the night in great distress. In the morning I wrote to the fair
afflicted, and whilst endeavouring to console her to the best of my
ability, I tried to impress on her the necessity for prudence and the
avoidance of such escapades as might eventually ruin us.

Next day I received her reply, every word of which spelt despair. Nature
had given her a disposition which had become so intensified by indulgence
that the cloister was unbearable to her, and I foresaw the hard fights I
should have to undergo.

We saw each other the Thursday after Easter, and I told her that I should
not come to the casino before midnight. She had had four hours to pass
with her lover in tears and regrets, amongst which she had often cursed
her cruel fate and the foolish resolution which made her take the veil.
We supped together, and although the meal was a rich and delicate one we
did it little honour. When we had finished, the ambassador left,
entreating me to remain, which I did, without thinking at all of the
pleasures of a party of two, for Love lighteth not his torch at the
hearts of two lovers who are full of grief and sorrow. M---- M---- had
grown thin, and her condition excited my pity and shut out all other
feelings. I held her a long time in my arms, covering her with tender and
affectionate kisses, but I shewed no intention of consoling her by
amusements in which her spirit could not have taken part. She said,
before we parted, that I had shewn myself a true lover, and she asked me
to consider myself from henceforth as her only friend and protector.

Next week, when we were together as usual, M. de Bemis called the
housekeeper just before supper, and in his presence executed a deed in my
behalf, which he made him sign. In this document he transferred to me all
rights over the contents of the casino, and charged him to consider me in
all things as his master.

We arranged to sup together two days after, to make our farewells, but on
my arrival I found by herself, standing up, and pale as death, or rather
as white as a statue of Carrara marble.

"He is gone," she said, "and he leaves me to your care. The Greeks poured
honey, but not wine, in their rites for the dead, and in all the
ceremonies which had to do with the worship of the earth deities--the
ancient autochthonic gods, older than the Olympians.

But wine was strictly an offering to the gods of the heavens, not
to the gods of the underworld, or of death.

There is another custom, still very common in North Devon and Somerset,
for the young men of the countryside to climb the nearest hill-top to see
the sunrise over the ridge of the Quantocks or the distant Mendips on
Easter morning. They account for their action by saying it is "for luck";
but this custom, if connected popularly with Christian worship, has at
its roots an older, sterner, and perhaps bloody origin. For, searching
back into the mists of antiquity, we find that those early and mysterious
peoples whose priests we call the "Druids," to whom the mistletoe was
sacred (and with which we decorate our houses at Christmas, the
festival of "peace and good-will"), offered human sacrifices to
their dark gods on high mountains and at the hour of sunrise.

Whether the Britons whom Caesar describes as sacrificing human beings in
vast wicker cages were the Druidical peoples who built Stonehenge
and the great stone circles of Dartmoor and Cumberland, or whether
with them the mode of worship was already traditional, preserved
by a priestly oligarchy from a yet remoter age, and connected by I
know not what strange links with the fierce Eastern worship of Baal
or Melkarth, it is impossible to say with certainty at present,
though the names by which the Cumberland men still call the peaks
and valleys round the small Druid circle near Keswick contain the
elements of those foreign Phoenician words.

But at least we may assume that the accurate astronomical arrangements
of these Druid stones connected human sacrifice with the movements
of the sun, and the tradition which sends the young men of the
countryside up Dunkery Beacon on Easter morn is certainly older
than the first Roman galley that beached in our bays.

Dunkery Beacon is the highest peak in the West of England; it rises above
Exmoor black and bold above bog and heather, commanding a view from the
Malvern Hills of Worcestershire on the north to the high lands of Plymouth
on the south-west, two hundred miles distant the one from the other.

The great sweep of the Bristol Channel shines below it on the west, and
beyond that lie the blue hills of Monmouthshire and Pembrokeshire; eastward
the counties of Somerset, Devon, and Dorset lie under the eyes, and on
a clear day it has been computed that no fewer than fifteen counties
can be seen from this one eminence.

[Illustration: Dunkery Beacon, from Horner Woods]
So notable a height might well have been chosen by those Druid peoples
as a fitting stage for the celebration of their worship, and the
tradition which holds it "lucky" to climb the Beacon on a spring morning
is just such a memory and faint superstition as lingers from an
old and forgotten faith. The country-folk round Keswick used to drive
their cattle up to the Druid circle on the hill-top near on the
first of May, light a fire within the circle, and drive their cattle
through the smoke "for luck," unconscious that they were remembering
the worship of the god Moloch, to whom beasts and human beings were
sacrificed at his Asiatic shrines by passing them through the fire.

On Dunkery Beacon, so far as I can ascertain, there are no remains of
a Druid circle, but only two stone platforms arranged for beacon
fires.

As a beacon it has been used for many hundred years. In the time of Alfred
the Great it flamed a warning of the coming of the Danes; it was doubtless
lighted at the coming of William the Conqueror into the West; when the
Armada went beating up the Channel; time and again when the rumour
ran that Napoleon had started for these shores; the country-folk
lighted it several times as a warning that the Doones were out on
one of their raids, till one night they climbed the beacon and threw
the watchman on the fire, after which it was left black and silent
for all the evil that the Doones did, until in due course retribution
overtook them and their stronghold was seized.

So that I conjecture that the circle of stones (if there were one) was
pulled down to build the beacon fires.

But the "Hunting of the Earl of Rone" which takes place at Combe Martin
on Ascension Day is probably the most interesting of all ancient survivals
in North Devon. It is a curious ceremony, partaking something of the
nature of a Guy Fawkes mummery, something, I consider, of a much
older and traditional character.

The "Earl of Rone," actually, was the son of the Earl of Tyrone,
the "Red Hand of Erin," who, in the reign of James I, fled from
Ireland and landed at Combe Martin, wandered about the countryside
with a band of companions, and was finally pursued and captured in
Lady Wood, outside the village.

In the Ascensiontide sports the Earl wears a grotesque costume: a mask,
and a smock padded with straw, and round his neck a chain of biscuits.
He has with him a hobby-horse and buffoon covered with fantastic
trappings, and carrying a small article called a "mapper" (which is
conjectured to be a misreading for "snapper"), and representing the
teeth and jaws of a horse. The Earl has also a donkey, decorated with
flowers and with a necklace of biscuit, and the hunters wear a sort of
fantastic grenadier costume. For a week before Ascension Day this strange
cortege goes in procession round the neighbourhood. The ceremony on
Ascension Day is as follows: The Earl of Rone hides in Lady Wood,
and is there pursued by the soldiers, fired upon, and captured.

He is then placed on the donkey, with his face towards the tail, and
led into the village, accompanied by the fool with his hobby-horse. They
make several halts, at each of which the Earl is again fired upon and
falls wounded from his donkey, mourned by the fool, but amid
the general rejoicing of the spectators. Finally he is replaced by the
fool, and the affair becomes a mere matter of buffoonery without special
significance. Contributions are levied from the public, and enforced by the
"mapper," by which they are seized and held until they have paid.
The fool also has a besom, which he dips in the gutter, and with
which he sprinkles the recalcitrant.

But among much that is mere horseplay, and common to all popular celebrations
which have no religious significance to keep in check a natural holiday
exuberance, we can discover two distinct traditions.
The one is the actual Guy Fawkes celebration of the capture of the
rebel and outlaw Shane O'Neill; the other is much older, going back
into the remote past of unwritten history, and connected with those
strange religious ceremonies which a study of comparative religions
has shown us to be a natural development of the mind of primitive
peoples, struggling out of the darkness of mere barbarism.

Over and over again we find, among the customs of savage tribes, or behind
the elaborate ceremonial of such civilized nations as the Greeks and
Romans, or lingering in strange and now meaningless ceremonies such
as the one I have just described, this primitive idea of the
individual who is harmful to the community.

From being baleful he became sacred. They cast him out of their city, as
the Jews did their scapegoat, to wander in desert places, and as the
Greeks did in a city festival which was older than the Homeric gods among
them, and which symbolized, in classical times, the days when they had
literally stoned a man and a woman from their midst, bound, and
with chaplets of flowers on their heads and necklaces of black figs
around their necks. It is recorded, among the South Sea Islands, that
a traveller once witnessed such a sacrifice as this memorized in the
classic Greek festival. Then, by a queer but common inversion of idea,
this baleful but sacred individual is fetched back into the
community, as the outcast, hidden in Lady Wood, was brought back
into Combe Martin, being beaten and reviled, and yet keeping his
sacred character as a being set apart from the rest of men.

His mask and traditional dress, his necklace of biscuit, and the
decking of the donkey with flowers and bread, all point to the sacrificial
character of this ceremony, though long ago forgotten and become the
opportunity for frolic and holiday-making.

The custom of "beating the bounds," which was familiar enough in many
country districts in the last century, is also a remains of
primitive tribal rites; it is a summer festival, falling usually
at Ascensiontide, and is held with greater or less ceremony.

Now, indeed, it has become just a holiday affair for children, who
dress up and parade the town or village with a hobby-horse and a few
vague ceremonies, now become shadowy and meaningless, as in the beating
of the bounds which takes place in the older part of the town of
Minehead.

   There are many scores of superstitious practices, as distinguished
from these remains of actual ritual of which I have spoken, still
in use among country-folk.

In Devonshire they still take a sick child, very early in the morning,
and hold it over a stream which is running east, with a long thread tied
to its finger, so that as the water carries the thread eastwards away
from the child the sickness will also be carried away. This, which seems
to us so incomprehensible a belief, is one of that very large class
of primitive practices which imitate a certain desired condition,
as in the rain-making of certain tribes of red Indians, when, having
danced ceremonially round a large tub of water, one of the number
takes a mouthful and spirts it into the air in imitation of rain.

This is what they call a "charm"; there are charms for the stanching of
blood, for making the cows yield well, for the cure of toothache,
for averting evil from a young child; when a Devonshire woman is
asked to a christening, she still takes with her a saffron cake,
and gives it to the first stranger that she meets on her way to
church.

But when the cattle are diseased, they have, or had as late as 1883,
when the ceremony was witnessed and recorded, a rite which is more than
a charm; for a sheep or calf is taken from the herd and sacrificed,
and either burned, or buried in a corner of the field belonging to the
farmer whose cattle are diseased.

But there is another practice in Devon and Cornwall which we may proclaim
a superstition, but to which the tragedies of these wild coasts give
but too grim an earnestness to those who practise it. When a ship is
long overdue, and a woman can bear the suspense no longer, she goes
down to the seashore and calls her husband by name. Over and over again
she calls him, her neighbours standing by, until over the waters the
voice of her drowned husband comes in answer. Then she turns and goes
to her desolate cottage, with hope put out of her heart.
How often these cries of sorrow and bereavement have gone out from these
rocky coasts, calling the drowned men by their simple, homely names
of field and cottage use from under the grey waters, how often the
waiting women have been comforted or strengthened by a despairing
certainty, we cannot know or realize who do not live and die by the
sea.

Apart from those customs and practices, which contain the germ of some very
ancient ritual or primitive belief, there is another class of tradition
which is purely fantastic, such as ghosts, witches who change into rabbits
and cats, fairies, dragons, and strange portents. Of such kind is the story
of the Ghost of Porlock Weir, a buccaneer named Lucott, and no
unlikely personage to haunt any of these seaside hamlets.

He was a malicious and obstinate ghost who appeared boldly a week after
his funeral--when the inhabitants might reasonably have supposed they
had at last got rid of the bad old man--and though he was exorcised by
no less than eleven clergymen he refused to be laid. At last the Vicar
of Porlock tamed him with a consecrated wafer, compelled him to ride with
him to Watchet, and there imprisoned him in a small box, which was
straight-way thrown into the sea, and he was seen no more.

There are elements in this story like that of Anstey's novel, where a genie
is imprisoned in a brass pot, which is fished up out of the sea and
opened, with startling results to a quiet modern community; and it is to
be hoped that nobody will bring Lucott ashore again, along with a catch
of fish.

There is another strange tale, also, concerning one John Strange of Porlock,
who, on August 23 of 1499, was hewing wood, and upon sitting down
to his midday meal on a log at the edge of the clearing, and cutting
a piece of bread, observed blood to flow from the incision. He went to
his neighbours about it, and with them to his parish priest, and the
matter became one of importance, for I find that a Commission was
appointed and recorded in the Register of Wells, to inquire into this
strange occurrence. Witnesses were called and examined, oaths taken,
the learned Commission sat upon it as solemnly as if it had been a case
of heresy. John Strange, summoned from his little cottage at Porlock,
was, we can well imagine, a half-unwilling hero. Nobody seems to
have arrived at any conclusion, and nobody seems to have suggested
that perhaps John Strange had cut his finger!

There is an even stranger and more splendidly fantastic story in Westcote's
"View of Devon," of fiery dragons seen flying about certain barrows
or tumuli near Challacombe, and alighting on them, and how a certain
labouring man, having bought a small plot of waste land near by,
began depleting Broaken Bunow to build himself a house with the
material.

And how, digging into the hillock, he came upon "a little place, as it had
been a large oven, fairly, strongly and closely walled up," and breaking
into this he discovered an earthen pot, which, hoping it might contain
some treasure, he stretched out his hand to seize, when, as he put his
hand upon it he heard a noise as of a great trampling of horses
coming towards him.

So he rose and looked about him, but, seeing nothing, knelt again to secure
the pot, when the same thing happened again, and so a third time
also. Nevertheless he drew out the pot and took it home, and found it
to contain no treasure, but only a few ashes and little bones. And a
very little time after he lost his senses both of sight and hearing,
and died within three months.

There is another barrow also, near the same place, where I am inclined to
believe that a "mystical sciencer" worked a trick on two worthy fellows,
whom he promised to enrich with silver and gold if they would dig into
the hillock for him and find therein a great brass pan which contained
the treasure. This they did, and came to the brass pan covered with
a large stone, which the strongest of them tried to lift, and was taken
with such a faintness "that he could neither work nor stand," and therefore
called to the other to take his place. This the man did, and was also
taken with faintness; and when they both recovered, which was in a very
short space of time, the "mystical sciencer" told them that the
birds were flown and the nest only left.

And sure enough they found this true: the empty brass pan, with the bottom
bright and clean, as if a treasure had lain there, and all the
rest of it cankered with rust.

Whether this sciencer was some obscure Roger Bacon, and had discovered
the use of a volatile anaesthetic centuries ago, or whether he was
enjoying a solitary practical joke at the expense of two simpletons,
is impossible to say. "It is at your choice to believe either or neither,"
as Westcote says of the two foregoing stories. "I have offered
them to the shrine of your judgment, and what truth soever there
is in them, they are not unfit tales for winter nights, when you
roast crabs by the fire, whereof this parish yields none, the climate
is too cold, only the fine dainty fruits of whortles and blackberries."

One of the pleasantest of tales for winter nights is given by Westcote
himself in his introductory chapters, where he speaks of the air of Devon
as "very healthy, temperate, sweet, and pure," and giving long
life to the inhabitants, more particularly in the good old times,
when men were content to live temperately and frugally, and did not
weaken themselves with delicacies, but subsisted on the bare
sustenance afforded by the earth.

Indeed, in the most ancient times they lived on bark and roots, and on a
certain "confection," of which if they took a small quantity no
larger than a bean they neither hungered nor thirsted for a long
while afterwards--so, at least, Diodorus Siculus and Dio Nicaeus
have affirmed, and we can therefore only suppose, in the face of
such authority, that the recipe is long since lost, and that the
habits of Devonshire men have certainly changed since the days when
they lived a hundred and twenty years.

But that must have been before the Phoenicians came to Britain, for
they are certainly reputed to have brought the secret of clotted (or
clouted) cream with them, and to have landed in Cornwall and Devon
with their scald-pans with them, so that the degeneration of the
Damnonii in the matter of delicacies is of very ancient date.

I cannot pass from an account of the wonders of Devon without repeating
Miss Celia Fiennes's description of a "ffowle" (as she calls it) which
lives on the island of Lundy, and which was formerly the property of
her grandfather, Lord Saye and Sele, and "yt lives partly in the water
and partly out, and soe may be called an amphibious Creature." She does
not claim to have seen it herself, for all her wanderings up and
down England a-horseback--which was, by the way, sufficient of an adventure
for a young lady in the seventeenth century--but she is none the less
detailed in her description. This queer bird has one foot like a turkey,
and one like a goose, and its habit of laying its eggs is "in a place
the sun shines on, and sets it soe exactly upright on the small end,
and there it remains until taken up, and all the art and skill of persons
cannot set it up soe again to abide."

She does not give the name of this strange "ffowle," but Lundy is no
unfitting habitat for an amphibious creature which is at least as rare as
the Dodo.

Stories of Henry de Tracy, who murdered Thomas à Becket, are numerous
up and down the coast; for the Tracys owned a considerable amount
of property here--Lynton, Crinton, Countisbury, and Parracombe--and,
in spite of historical evidence of the family's continued prosperity,
tradition asserts that the curse brought down by sacrilege was
fulfilled, and that Henry de Tracy wanders up and down these desolate
coves, condemned to weave ropes of sand that can never draw his
wretched soul out of torment till the last trump shall sound.

He has become, indeed, a figure of legend, merged with such strange
persons as the Wandering Jew and all those restless and unreleased
spirits who, like Sisyphus of Greek legend or Tregeagle of Cornish,
for ever toil at a for ever unaccomplished task.

Zorzi, who was very fond of the play, and
desired to offer a sacrifice to Thalia, wrote a comedy which the audience
took the liberty of hissing; but having persuaded himself that his piece
only failed through the conspiracies of the Abbe Chiari, who wrote for
the Theatre of St. Angelo, he declared open war against all the abbe's
plays.

I felt no reluctance whatever to visit M. Zorzi, for he possessed an
excellent cook and a charming wife. He knew that I did not care for
Chiari as an author, and M. Zorzi had in his pay people who, without
pity, rhyme, or reason, hissed all the compositions of the ecclesiastical
playwright. My part was to criticise them in hammer verses--a kind of
doggerel then much in fashion, and Zorzi took care to distribute my
lucubrations far and wide. These manoeuvres made me a powerful enemy in
the person of M. Condulmer, who liked me none the better for having all
the appearance of being in high favour with Madame Zorzi, to whom before
my appearance he had paid diligent court. This M. Condulmer was to be
excused for not caring for me, for, having a large share in the St.
Angelo Theatre, the failure of the abbe's pieces was a loss to him, as
the boxes had to be let at a very low rent, and all men are governed by
interested motives.

This M. Condulmer was sixty years old, but with all the greenness of
youth he was still fond of women, gaming, and money, and he was, in fact,
a money-lender, but he knew how to pass for a saint, as he took care to
go to mass every morning at St. Mark's, and never omitted to shed tears
before the crucifix. The following year he was made a councillor, and in
that capacity he was for eight months a State Inquisitor. Having thus
attained this diabolically-eminent, or eminently-diabolical, position, he
had not much difficulty in shewing his colleagues the necessity of
putting me under The Leads as a disturber of the peace of the Republic.
In the beginning of the winter the astounding news of the treaty between
France and Austria was divulged--a treaty by which the political balance
was entirely readjusted, and which was received with incredulity by the
Powers. The whole of Italy had reason to rejoice, for the treaty guarded
that fair land from becoming the theatre of war on the slightest
difference which might arise between the two Powers. What astonished the
most acute was that this wonderful treaty was conceived and carried out
by a young ambassador who had hitherto been famed only as a wit. The
first foundations had been laid in 1750 by Madame de Pompadour, Count
Canes (who was created a prince), and M. l'Abbe de Bernis, who was not
known till the following year, when the king made him ambassador to
Venice. The House of Bourbon and the House of Hapsburg had been foes for
two hundred and forty years when this famous treaty was concluded, but it
only lasted for forty years, and it is not likely that any treaty will
last longer between two courts so essentially opposed to one another.

The Abbe de Bernis was created minister for foreign affairs some time
after the ratification of the treaty; three years after he re-established
the parliament, became a cardinal, was disgraced, and finally sent to
Rome, where he died. 'Mors ultimo linea rerum est'.

Affairs fell out as I had foreseen, for nine months after he left Venice
he conveyed to M---- M---- the news of his recall, though he did it in the
most delicate manner. Nevertheless, M---- M---- felt the blow so severely
that she would very possibly have succumbed, had I not been preparing her
for it in every way I could think of M. de Bernis sent me all
instructions.

He directed that all the contents of the casino should be sold and the
proceeds given to M---- M----, with the exception of the books and prints
which the housekeeper was ordered to bring to Paris. It was a nice
breviary for a cardinal, but would to God they had nothing worse!

Whilst M---- M---- abandoned herself to grief I carried out the orders of
M. de Bernis, and by the middle of January we had no longer a casino. She
kept by her two thousand sequins and her pearls, intending to sell them
later on to buy herself an annuity.

We were now only able to see each other at the grating; and soon, worn
with grief, she fell dangerously ill, and on the 2nd of February I
recognized in her features the symptoms of approaching death. She sent me
her jewel-case, with all her diamonds and nearly all her money, all the
scandalous books she possessed, and all her letters, telling me that if
she did not die I was to return her the whole, but that all belonged to
me if, as she thought, she should succumb to the disease. She also told
me that C---- C---- was aware of her state, and asked me to take pity on
her and write to her, as my letters were her only comfort, and that she
hoped to have strength to read them till her latest breath.

I burst into tears, for I loved her passionately, and I promised her to
come and live in Muran until she recovered her health.

Having placed the property in a gondola, I went to the Bragadin Palace to
deposit it, and then returned to Muran to get Laura to find me a
furnished room where I could live as I liked. "I know of a good room,
with meals provided," she said; "you will be quite comfortable and will
get it cheaply, and if you like to pay in advance, you need not even say
who you are. The old man to whom the house belongs lives on the ground
floor; he will give you all the keys and if you like you need see no
one."

She gave me the address, and I went there on the spot, and having found
everything to my liking I paid a month in advance and the thing was done.
It was a little house at the end of a blind alley abutting on the canal.
I returned to Laura's house to tell her that I wanted a servant to get my
food and to make my bed, and she promised to get me one by the next day.

Having set all in order for my new lodging, I returned to Venice and
packed my mails as if I were about to make a long journey. After supper I
took leave of M. de Bragadin and of his two friends, telling them that I
was going to be away for several weeks on important business.

Next day, going to my new room, I was surprised to find there Tonine,
Laura's daughter, a pretty girl not more than fifteen years old, who told
me with a blush, but with more spirit than I gave her credit for, that
she would serve me as well as her mother would have done.

I was in too much distress to thank Laura for this pretty present, and I
even determined that her daughter should not stay in my service. We know
how much such resolutions are commonly worth. In the meanwhile I was kind
to the girl: "I am sure," I said, "of your goodwill, but I must talk to
your mother. I must be alone," I added, "as I have to write all day, and
I shall not take anything till the evening." She then gave me a letter,
begging pardon for not having given it me sooner. "You must never forget
to deliver messages," I said, "for if you had waited any longer before
bringing me this letter, it might have had the most serious
consequences." She blushed, begged pardon, and went out of the room. The
letter was from C---- C----, who told me that her friend was in bed, and
that the doctor had pronounced her illness to be fever. I passed the rest
of the day in putting my room in order, and in writing to C---- C---- and
her suffering friend.

Towards evening Tonine brought in the candles, and told me that my supper
was ready. "Follow me," I said. Seeing that she had only laid supper for
one--a pleasing proof of her modesty, I told her to get another knife and
fork, as I wished her always to take her meals with me. I can give no
account of my motives. I only wished to be kind to her, and I did
everything in good faith. By and by, reader, we shall see whether this is
not one of the devices by which the devil compasses his ends.

Not having any appetite, I ate little, but I thought everything good with
the exception of the wine; but Tonine promised to get some better by the
next day, and when supper was over she went to sleep in the ante-room.

After sealing my letters, wishing to know whether the outer door was
locked, I went out and saw Tonine in bed, sleeping peacefully, or
pretending to do so. I might have suspected her thoughts, but I had never
been in a similar situation, and I measured the extremity of my grief by
the indifference with which I looked at this girl; she was pretty, but
for all that I felt that neither she nor I ran any risk.

Next day, waking very early, I called her, and she came in neatly
dressed. I gave her my letter to C---- C----, which enclosed the letter to
M---- M----, telling her to take it to her mother and then to return to
make my coffee.

"I shall dine at noon, Tonine," I said, "take care to get what is
necessary in good time."

"Sir, I prepared yesterday's supper myself, and if you like I can cook
all your meals."

"I am satisfied with your abilities, go on, and here is a sequin for
expenses."

"I still have a hundred and twenty sous remaining from the one you gave
me yesterday, and that will be enough."

"No, they are for yourself, and I shall give you as much every day."

Her delight was so great that I could not prevent her covering my hand
with kisses. I took care to draw it back and not to kiss her in return,
for I felt as if I should be obliged to laugh, and this would have
dishonoured my grief.

The second day passed like the first. Tonine was glad that I said no more
about speaking to her mother, and drew the conclusion that her services
were agreeable to me. Of this advantage the author has fully availed
himself in a variety of familiar exemplars, which, to speak seriously are
brought home to our very firesides. A few of these facts will form
a recreative page or two for another MIRROR: in the meantime we quote a
few illustrative observations on the most interesting exhibitions of the
day:--
"Common paintings and prints may be considered as parts of a panoramic
representation, showing as much of that general field of view which always
surrounds a spectator, as can be seen by the eye turned in one direction,
and looking through a window or other opening. The pleasure from contemplating
these is much increased by using a lens."In the morning," I said, "I will tell Laura to get me something less
seducing;" but the night brought counsel, and in the morning I put on the
armour of sophism, telling myself that my weakness was no fault of the
girl's, and that it would therefore be unjust to punish her for it. We
shall see, dear reader, how all this ended.


CHAPTER XXIII

Continues the Preceding Chapter--M. M. Recovers--I Return to
Venice--Tonine Consoles Me--Decrease of My Love For M. M.O me! how
should one do to mend all those! 'Tis work for an age, and I fear that I
shall be so old before I am good, that 'twill not be considerable
to any body but myself whether I am so or not....

You ask me how I pass my time here. I can give you a perfect account,
not only of what I do for the present, but what I am likely to do this
seven years if I stay here so long. I rise in the morning reasonably
early, and before I am ready I go round the house till I am weary
of that, and then into the garden till it grows too hot for me.For a fortnight
M---- M---- was so ill that I expected every moment to hear the news of her
death. On Shrove Tuesday C---- C---- wrote that her friend was not strong
enough to read my letter, and that she was going to receive 'extreme
unction'. This news so shocked me that I could not rise, and passed the
whole day in weeping and writing, Tonine not leaving me till midnight. I
could not sleep. See that bonny blue-e'ed, rosy-cheek'd, gowden-haired
lassie,--only a thought paler than usual, sweet lily that she is,--half
sittin' half lyin' on the greensward, as she leans on the knee o' her
stalwart grand-father--for the sermon's begun, and all eyes are fastened
on the preacher--look at her till your heart melts, as if she were your
ain, and God had given you that beautifu' wee image o' her sainted mother,
and tell me if you think that a' the tortures that cruelty could devise
to inflict, would ever ring frae thae sweet innocent lips ae word o'
abjuration o' the faith in which the flower is growing up amang the dew-draps
o' her native hills?
_North_.--Never--never--never!
_Shepherd_.--She proved it, sir, in death.She had compassion on me.

A few days later, after assuring C---- C---- that if our friend died I
should not survive her, I asked her to tell M---- M---- that if she wanted
me to take care of my life she must promise to let me carry her off on
her recovery.

"I have," I said, "four thousand sequins and her diamonds, which are
worth six thousand; we should, therefore, have a sufficient sum to enable
us to live honourably in any part of Europe."

C---- C---- wrote to me on the following day, and said that my mistress,
after hearing my letter read, had fallen into a kind of convulsion, and,
becoming delirious, she talked incessantly in French for three whole
hours in a fashion which would have made all the nuns take to their
heels, if they had understood her. I was in despair, and was nearly
raving as wildly as my poor nun. Her delirium lasted three days, and as
soon as she got back her reason she charged her young friend to tell me
that she was sure to get well if I promised to keep to my word, and to
carry her off as soon as her health would allow. I hastened to reply that
if I lived she might be sure my promise would be fulfilled.

Thus continuing to deceive each other in all good faith, we got better,
for every letter from C---- C----, telling me how the convalescence of her
friend was progressing, was to me as balm. This box used in a reverse
way becomes a perfect camera obscura. The common show-stalls seen in
the streets are boxes made somewhat on this principle, but without the
mirror; and although the drawings or prints in them are generally very
coarse, they are not uninteresting.

To children whose eyes are not yet very critical, some of these show boxes
afford an exceeding great treat."
_Cosmoramas and Dioramas._
"A still more perfect contrivance of the same kind has been exhibited
for some time in London and Paris under the title of _Cosmorama_
(from Greek words signifying _views_ of the _world_, because of the
great variety of views.)

Pictures of moderate size are placed beyond what have the appearance
of common windows, but of which the panes are really large convex lenses
fitted to correct the errors of appearance which the nearness of the
pictures would else produce. Then by farther using various subordinate
contrivances, calculated to aid and heighten the effects, even shrewd
judges have been led to suppose the small pictures behind the glasses
to be very large pictures, while all others have let their eyes dwell upon
them with admiration, as magical realizations of the natural scenes
and objects. Because this contrivance is cheap and simple, many persons
affect to despise it; but they do not thereby show their wisdom; for to
have made so perfect a representation of objects, is one of the most sublime
triumphs of art, whether we regard the pictures drawn in such true
perspective and colouring, or the lenses which assist the eye in examining
them.

"It has already been stated, that the effect of such glasses in
looking at near pictures, is obtainable in a considerable degree
without a glass, by making the pictures very large and placing them
at a corresponding distance.She had passed whole nights on a chair by my bedside, tending me like a
mother, and never giving me the slightest cause for complaint.

Never had I given her a kiss, never had I allowed myself to undress in
her presence, and never (with one exception) had she come into my room
without being properly dressed. For all that, I knew that I had fought a
battle, and I felt inclined to boast at having won the victory. There was
only one circumstance that vexed me--namely, that I was nearly certain
that neither M. M. nor C. C. would consider such continence to be within
the bounds of possibility, if they heard of it, and that Laura herself,
to whom her daughter would tell the whole story, would be sceptical,
though she might out of kindness pretend to believe it all.

I got to M. de Bragadin's just as the soup was being served. He welcomed
me heartily, and was delighted at having foreseen that I should thus
surprise them. Besides my two other old friends, there were De la Haye,
Bavois, and Dr. Righelini at table.

"What! you without a cloak!" said M. Dandolo.

"Yes," said I; "for having gone out with my mask on I forgot to bring
one:"

At this they laughed, and, without putting myself out, I sat down. No one
asked where I had been so long, for it was understood that that question
should be left to me to answer or not. Nevertheless, De la Haye, who was
bursting with curiosity, could not refrain from breaking some jests on
me.

"You have got so thin," said he, "that uncharitable people will be rather
hard on you."

"I trust they will not say that I have been passing my time with the
Jesuits."

"You are sarcastic. They may say, perhaps, that you have passed your time
in a hot-house under the influence of Mercury."

"Don't be afraid, sir, for to escape this hasty judgment I shall go back
this evening."

"No, no, I am quite sure you will not."

"Believe me, sir," said I, with a bantering tone, "that I deem your
opinion of too much consequence not to be governed by it."

Seeing that I was in earnest, my friends were angry with him; and the
Aristarchus was in some confusion.

Righelini, who was one of Murray's intimate friends, said to me in a
friendly way that he had been longing to tell Murray of my re-appearance,
and of the falsity of all the reports about me.

"We will go to sup with him," said I, "and I will return after supper."

Seeing that M. de Bragadin and his two friends were uneasy about me, I
promised to dine with them on April 25th, St. Mark's Day.

As soon as Mr. Murray saw me, he fell on my neck and embraced me. He
introduced me to his wife, who asked me to supper with great politeness.
After Murray had told me the innumerable stories which had been made
about my disappearance, he asked me if I knew a little story by the Abbe
Chiari, which had come out at the end of the carnival. As I said that I
knew nothing about it, he gave me a copy, telling me that I should like
it. He was right. It was a satire in which the Zorzi clique was pulled to
pieces, and in which I played a very poor part. I did not read it till
some time after, and in the mean time put it in my pocket. After a very
good supper I took a gondola to return to Muran.

It was midnight and very dark, so that I did not perceive the gondola to
be ill covered and in wretched order. A fine rain was falling when I got
in, and the drops getting larger I was soon wet to the skin. No great
harm was done, as I was close to my quarters. I groped my way upstairs
and knocked at the door of the ante-room, where Tonine, who had not
waited for me, was sleeping. Awake in a moment she came to open the door
in her smock, and without a light. As I wanted one, I told her to get the
flint and steel, which she did, warning me in a modest voice that she was
not dressed. "That's of no consequence," said I, "provided you are
covered." She said no more, and soon lighted a candle, but she could not
help laughing when she saw me dripping wet.

"I only want you, my dear," said I, "to dry my hair." She quickly set to
work with powder and powder-puff in hand, but her smock was short and
loose at the top, and I repented, rather too late, that I had not given
her time to dress. I felt that all was lost, all the more as having to
use both her hands she could not hold her smock and conceal two swelling
spheres more seductive than the apples of the Hesperides. How could I
help seeing them? I shut my eyes and, said "For shame!" but I gave in at
last, and fixed such a hungry gaze upon poor Tonine that she blushed.
"Come," said I, "take your smock between your teeth and then I shall see
no more." But it was worse than before, and I had only added fuel to the
fire; for, as the veil was short, I could see the bases and almost the
frieze of two marble columns; and at this sight I gave a voluptuous cry.
Not knowing how to conceal everything from my gaze, Tonine let herself
fall on the sofa, and I, my passions at fever-heat, stood beside her, not
knowing what to do.

"Well," she said, "shall I go and dress myself and then do your hair?"

"No, come and sit on my knee, and cover my eyes with your hands." She
came obediently, but the die was cast, and my resistance overcome. I
clasped her between my arms, and without any more thoughts of playing at
blind man's buff I threw her on the bed and covered her with kisses. And
as I swore that I would always love her, she opened her arms to receive
me in a way that shewed how long she had been waiting for this moment.

I plucked the rose, and then, as ever, I thought it the rarest I had ever
gathered since I had laboured in the harvest of the fruitful fields of
love.

When I awoke in the morning I found myself more deeply in love with
Tonine than I had been with any other woman. She had got up without
waking me, but as soon as she heard me stirring she came, and I tenderly
chid her for not waiting for me to give her good morrow. Without
answering she gave me M---- M----'s letter. I thanked her, but putting the
letter on one side I took her in my arms, and set her by my side. "What a
wonder!" cried Tonine. "You are not in a hurry to read that letter!
Faithless man, why did you not let me cure you six weeks ago. How lucky I
am; thanks to the rain! I do not blame you, dear, but love me as you love
her who writes to you every day, and I shall be satisfied."

"Do you know who she is?"

"She lives in a boarding-house, and is as beautiful as an angel; but she
is there, and I am here. You are my master, and I will be your servant as
long as you like."

I was glad to leave her in error, and swore an ever-lasting love; but
during our conversation she had let herself drop down in the bottom of
the bed, and I entreated her to lie down again; but she said that on the
contrary it was time for me to get up for dinner, for she wanted to give
me a dainty meal cooked in the Venetian manner.

"Who is the cook?" said I.

"I am, and I have been using all my skill on it since five, when I got
up."

"What time is it now, then?"

"Past one."

The girl astonished me. She was no longer the shy Tonine of last night;
she had that exultant air which happiness bestows, and the look of
pleasure which the delights of love give to a young beauty. I could not
understand how I had escaped from doing homage to her beauty when I first
saw her at her mother's house. But I was then too deeply in love with
C---- C----; I was in too great distress; and, moreover, Tonine was then
unformed. I got up, and making her bring me a cup of coffee I asked her
to keep the dinner back for a couple of hours.

I found M---- M----'s letter affectionate, but not so interesting as it
would have been the day before. I set myself to answer it, and was almost
thunderstruck to find the task, for the first time, a painful one.
However, my short journey to Venice supplied me with talk which covered
four pages.

I had an exquisite dinner with my charming Tonine. Looking at her as at
the same time my wife, my mistress, and my housekeeper, I was delighted
to find myself made happy at such a cheap rate. We spent the whole day at
the table talking of our love, and giving each other a thousand little
marks of it; for there is no such rich and pleasant matter for
conversation as when they who talk are parties to an amorous suit. She
told with charming simplicity that she knew perfectly well that she could
not make me amorous of her, because I loved another, and that her only
hope was therefore in a surprise, and that she had foreseen the happy
moment when I told her that she need not dress herself to light a candle.

Tonine was naturally quick-witted, but she did not know either how to
read or to write. She was enchanted to see herself become rich (for she
thought herself so) without a soul at Muran being able to breathe a word
against her honour. I passed three weeks in the company of this
delightful girl--weeks which I still reckon among the happiest of my
life; and what embitters my old age is that, having a heart as warm as
ever, I have no longer the strength necessary to secure a single day as
blissful as those which I owed to this charming girl.

Towards the end of April I saw M. Finally, Ibrahim Chan set forth on
an expedition against the enemies of Moscow, and thus was afforded a
rare opportunity for the enamored Mirza to present himself and his
songs to the fair one's notice. One dark evening, when the ladies had
failed to appear on the housetop, as Mirza-Schaffy was turning disappointed
away he was accosted by a closely-veiled female, who, bidding him follow
her, led the way to a secluded spot where interruption would be improbable,
and thus addressed him: "I am Fatima, the confidential attendant of
Zuléikha.
My mistress hath gazed on thee with the eye of satisfaction. The resonance
of thy voice hath delighted her ear, the purport of thy songs
touched her heart.

I am come of my own accord, without my lady's bidding, to let thee drink
hope from the fountain of my words, because I wish thee well."
"Has, then, Zuléikha not closed her ear to the poorest of her
slaves?"

exclaimed the overjoyed Mirza. "And will my heart not be lacerated by the
thorn of her displeasure? Allah min! Allah bir! The God of thousands
is one only God!

Great is His goodness and wonderful are His ways! What have I done that He
hath guided the stream of my songs to the sea of beauty?"
Fatima told him he did well to prize the merciful goodness of Allah and
the loveliness of her mistress, who was a "jewel in the ring of beauty, a
pearl in the shell of fortune." Her noble lady, she said, would have given
token of her favor before had not her virtuous modesty exceeded her
beauty, and had she not feared the displeasure of her father, who
tenderly loved her and would never consent to her stooping to a
poor mirza.

Then she proceeded to tell how Achmed Chan of Avaria, who was at the war
with Ibrahim Chan, was suing for Zuléikha's hand, which was promised by
the father should he return triumphant from the campaign. This would
render prompt action desirable, and Fatima suggested that Mirza-Schaffy
should appear on the following evening, when the call to prayer resounded
from the minaret, before the garden with his choicest offering of song,
to which, the messenger was ready to wager, would be accorded a
rosebud.

Intoxicated with joy, Mirza-Schaffy bestowed on the friendly Fatima
his purse, his watch and all the valuables about him, also promising a
talisman to cure a black spot on her left cheek; and they parted with the
understanding that they should meet, again for further communication.

And here, in exemplification of the learned scribe's rejoinders to his
pupil's queries concerning the significance of the thorn of displeasure
and the rosebud, is introduced the song:
The thorn is token of rejection, Of disapproval and of scorn:
If she to union hath objection, She giveth me as sign a thorn.

Yet if, instead, the maiden throws me A tender rosebud as a token,
That fate propitious is it shows me, And bids me wait with faith
unbroken.

But if a full-blown rose she tenders, Its open chalice is a token Which
boldest hope in me engenders; Through it her love is clearly spoken.

On the ensuing evening Mirza-Schaffy presented himself promptly at
the appointed place, prepared with a love-song which he knew none
of womankind could resist.

The evening was calm and clear, and on the housetop, alone with
Fatima, was plainly discernible Zuléikha, her veil slightly drawn
aside in token of favor.

Taking courage, the enamored Mirza pushed back his cap in order to display
his freshly shaven head, of whose whiteness he was excessively proud,
and which he felt to be irresistible to maidens' eyes, and began
to sing his song, having first cast a written copy folded about a
double almond-kernel, as a keepsake at the feet of beauty.

The song given at this point is excessively flowery, and declares
the maiden's eyes to be brighter than those of the wild gazelle,
her form more ethereal than the slender pine, and pronounces the
wooer, his heart and his tuneful lay to be but slaves of her
loveliness.

This by way of preparation, the highest point of the offering being
the concluding stanzas:
With faithful heart and hopefully Approach I now Love's sacred
bower, And cast this wistful song at thee, This fragrant song, as
question-flower.

Accept with joy or scornfully, Give my heart death or consolation,
Cast rosebud, rose, or thorn at me, I humbly wait thy revelation.

Smilingly the maiden cast a rosebud at her waiting suitor, and for the
first time fully displayed to him her beauteous face.

From this moment new life dawned on our Mirza, and for six weeks he basked
in the sunshine of felicity ere threatening clouds loomed up in
his horizon.

Then Ibrahim Chan returned from the war, and with him came his daughter's
suitor.

A troop of horsemen had been despatched to Avaria for the bridal
gift, and on their return they were to conduct Achmed Chan and his
chosen lady home.

Prize combats and festivities were planned to celebrate the return of the
heroes, and at Zuléikha's request a singing festival was likewise
to take place.

All the singers of the land were invited and bidden to prepare their
choicest lays extolling the sovereign lady of the fête: to the
victorious competitor would be accorded the right to break the
instruments of his opponents.

Now was the time for Mirza-Schaffy to gather all his courage, for
he knew the crisis of his destiny to be at hand.

He arranged with Fatima that the day of the singing festival should be
likewise that of his flight with Zuléikha, for he was troubled with no
doubt concerning the success of his lyrical efforts.

An Armenian who was about setting forth with a caravan was confided in,
and engaged to reserve camels for and accord protection to the
fugitives.

The minutes seemed like days, the hours like years, until the
announcement was heralded that Ibrahim Chan had sallied forth with
his guests to the prize combat, and that the ladies awaited the
minstrels.

They were assembled on the housetop, lovely matrons and maidens, and there
was spread a large carpet on which set two players on the _sass_ and
_tshengir_, between whom each singer in turn took his place to sing
his offering to the sound of strings.

The handsomest boy in Gjändsha was appointed to hand to each singer
a silver plate, wherewith to conceal from the eye of beauty the emotions
depicted in his countenance while singing. Twenty singers stood in a
circle and stepped forth one after the other, Mirza-Schaffy, as
the youngest of the number, coming last.

All other emanations he felt to be faint sparks in comparison with
the fire of his own.

How could it be otherwise, considering the source of his inspiration?
As he sang his heart swelled with ecstasy, and when he concluded
there lay at his feet a full-blown rose.

He was victor of the festival, yet so filled was he with thoughts
of his beloved that he remembered not to break the instruments of
the vanquished.

The flight was effected; the bride, although awaiting the coming of the
bridegroom in bridal array, offering all due resistance as he led
her from her home; indeed, so zealous was she to be faithful to the
customs of her country that her cries would have roused the household
had not the prudent Fatima interposed.

On reaching the caravan a double security seemed to arise from the
Armenian proving to be the accepted lover of Fatima; and Zuléikha,
although deeming it a degradation for a daughter of Ali to unite
her destinies with an unbeliever, was herself too strongly in the
bondage of love to withhold her consent.

Then how happy were they all! and what precautions were taken for their
safety!

Nevertheless, they were overtaken by the angry father and the outraged
suitor of his choice.

Zuléikha and Fatima were rudely snatched from the protection of
their lovers, and the learned scribe--we blush to write it--received
on the very soles which had borne him to the summit of bliss the
ignominious blows of the bastinado.

From that day Mirza-Schaffy had felt indisposed to bestow his affections
on mortal woman, and since the sun of his hopes had set dwelt serenely in
the moonlight of remembrance. As Zuléikha, the embodiment of all virtue
and beauty, had loved him, he believed himself to be an object of
adoration to all feminine hearts, and grimly resolved that all womankind
must suffer in expiation of his own sufferings.

During the winter there arrived another student from Germany, who,
becoming acquainted with Bodenstedt, arranged to share with him the lessons
in Tartar and Persian, which Mirza-Schaffy was pleased to call "hours
of wisdom." In course of time other friends joined the circle, so that
finally arose a formal divan, where the wise man of Gjändsha discoursed
less on personalities, dwelling chiefly on general effusions of wisdom,
interspersed with many a song.

One of the latter reads as though designed by Bodenstedt to indicate
the relation borne by Mirza-Schaffy to his own productions:
Thou art of my song the begetter; Its drapery putteth my wand on;
Thou yieldest the purest of marble, And I lay the sculpturing hand
on.

Thou givest the spirit, the essence:

Me for utt'rance alone mak'st demand on-- Oft my power's deficient, and
madly Thy crude thoughts I haste to expand on.

Sundry songs extolling the beneficence of wine and earthly pleasure arose
at this period. Of these we find none more attractive than that which
owed its origin to a conversation held in the divan of wisdom concerning
certain Russians and Georgians who drank wine more freely than the
camels drank water, yet had gained no inspiration therefrom:

From wine's fiery fascination From the goblet's mystic pleasure, Poison
foams, and sweet refreshment, Beauty flows, and degradation, As
the drinker's worth may measure, According to his brain's assessment.

In debasement deeply sunken Lies the fool, through wine's might
captur'd:
When _he_ drinks becomes he drunken; When _we_ drink we are
enraptured.

Sparkling gleams of wit, worth dreaming, Flash from tongues like angel's
seeming, And with ardor we are teeming, And alone with beauty
drunken.

Well resembles wine the shower Which to mire fresh mire amasses,
But to fair fields brings a dower Rich in blessing as it passes.

One evening Bodenstedt discovered his worthy teacher singing before
a house on whose roof sat a graceful maiden, and from the man's whole
manner then and thereafter concluded that in the long-faithful
heart had been at last replaced the image of Zuléikha.

And so it proved. On the very evening when he was returning home with
softened heart after the recital of the joys and sorrows of his first love,
Mirza-Schaffy's attention had been arrested by a lovely maiden
who, as he pushed back his cap--solely, of course, to cool his
heated brow--gave incontestable evidences of being smitten with him.

When he went to his couch that night sleep refused to visit his
eyelids, and as he restlessly tossed to and fro, the image of
Zuléikha haunting him with reproachful mien, his thoughts turned
ever to the peerless maiden who menaced further fidelity to the old
love.

Ere morning dawned he had resolved to break the spell, and for several
days avoided the locality of the fair enticer.

But the attraction became finally too strong to resist. He went, he saw
the maiden, and she bestowed on him a glance which rendered him
her slave for life; 
A wond'rous glance hath met my eyes:
The magic of this moment rare Worketh for aye a fresh surprise, A
miracle beyond compare.

A question, therefore, ask I thee-- Pay heed, sweet life whom I adore--
Was that fond glance bestowed on me?

A token give, then, I implore.

And round thee could my strong arm cling, Might I to thee life
consecrate, Loud jubilees my heart would sing, And these to thee
I'd dedicate.

The first interview presents decidedly a comical side.

By a confidential attendant Mirza-Schaffy was introduced on the roof
disguised in female costume, his face and flowing beard modestly
covered with a long veil.

Luckily, he was not doomed long to such undignified concealment, for he
soon managed, through his beauty and genius, to win favor in the eyes
of the lady's mother, and she promised to intercede in his behalf with
the stern old father. The latter, however, having eyes neither for beauty
nor poetry, thought only to demand what means of support the bold
intruder had to offer his daughter, and when he learned how small
these were, withheld his consent until the suitor could secure a
professorship in some institution of learning.

Although loath to renounce his freedom, Mirza-Schaffy determined for
Hafisa's sake to make application, as he had often been advised
to do, at the Tiflis Gymnasium for the position of teacher of
Tartaric.

But, alas! there was prepared for our poor Mirza a humiliation second
only to the bastinado. His reply was a portentous document in the
Russian language, of which he could not read a word. Hafisa's father
demanded sight of it, had it interpreted by a learned mullah, and it
proved to be a summons for the applicant to appear at an appointed hour
for examination. This was too much.
Mirza-Schaffy, the first wise man of the East, the pride of his race,
the pearl in the shell of poetry, to be examined in his own language!
Hafisa's father declared his belief that the mirza's wisdom was as
doubtful as his fortune, and the wise man himself began to wonder
whether his wisdom had not gone "pleasuring in the dusk of the
evening."

Moreover, during the conference with the mullah certain revelations came
to light concerning the lack of orthodoxy in the mirza's belief and
the frequent slurs it was his wont to cast on the powerful mullahs;
and this set the old father hopelessly against him, causing him
to revoke all promise of possible consent.

Such being the case, Mirza-Schaffy had no heart to brave the humiliation
of an examination. Shortly after, however, he was honored with a call to
the new school at Gjändsha, and Hafisa's father dying about the same time,
all obstacles were removed to a union with the maiden of his choice.

And so with his bride he returned to his native place, and felt that the
summit of earthly bliss was attained.

Friedrich Bodenstedt has been a very prolific author, having published
several volumes of poetry, besides numerous romances, tales and miscellaneous
works. He is one of a committee of poets and men of learning appointed
not long since to retranslate the works of Shakespeare. At present
he is adding to his well-earned laurels through his volume _Aus
dem Nachlasse Mirza-Schaffys_.

The book is divided into seven parts, the first of which is dedicated to
love.
Then there are songs of earthly pleasure, songs of consolation, sayings
of wisdom, stories in rhyme of Eastern romance, a series of problems
and a "bouquet of cypresses and roses."

AUBER FORESTIER.

TO CHARLOTTE CUSHMAN.

Look where a three-point star shall weave his beam Into the slumb'rous
tissue of some stream, Till his bright self o'er his bright copy
seem Fulfillment dropping on a come-true dream; So in this night of art
thy soul doth show Her excellent double in the steadfast flow Of
wishing love that through men's hearts doth go:
At once thou shin'st above and shin'st below.

E'en when thou strivest there within Art's sky (Each star must round an
arduous orbit fly), Full calm thine image in our love doth lie, A Motion
glassed in a Tranquillity.
So triple-rayed, thou mov'st, yet stay'st, serene-- Art's artist,
Love's dear woman, Fame's good queen!

SIDNEY LANIER.

CHARLES KINGSLEY: A REMINISCENCE.

The heat of London in the midsummer of 1857, even to my American
apprehension, was intense. The noise of the streets oppressed me, and
perhaps the sight now and again of freshly-watered flowers which beautify
so many of the window-ledges, and which seem to flourish and bloom whatever
the weather, filled me the more with a desire for the quiet of green fields
and the refreshing shade of trees. I had just returned from Switzerland,
and the friends with whom I had been journeying in that land of all
perfections had gone back to their home among the wealds and woods of
Essex.
I
take note not only of my noble mistress's innocence, but also of the
quickness of her wit. Murray remained serious, without a smile on his
face. Full of grace and beauty, M---- M---- came into the room with a
lay-sister, each of them holding a candlestick. She paid me a compliment
in good French; I gave her the letter, and looking at the address and the
seal she put it in her pocket. After thanking me and saying she would
reply in due course, she turned towards my companion:

"I shall, perhaps, make you lose the first act of the opera," said she.

"The pleasure of seeing you, madam, is worth all the operas in the
world."

"You are English, I think?"

"Yes, madam."

"The English are now the greatest people in the world, because they are
free and powerful. Gentlemen, I wish you a very good evening."

I had never seen M---- M---- looking so beautiful as then, and I went out
of the parlour ablaze with love, and glad as I had never been before. I
walked with long strides towards my casino, without taking notice of the
ambassador, who did not hurry himself in following me; I waited for him
at my door.

"Well," said I, "are you convinced now that you have been cheated?"

"Be quiet, we have time enough to talk about that. Let us go upstairs."

"Shall I come?"

"Do. What do you think I could do by myself for four hours with that
creature who is waiting for me? We will amuse ourselves with her."

"Had we not better turn her out?"

"No; her master is coming for her at two o'clock in the morning. She
would go and warn him, and he would escape my vengeance. We will throw
them both out of the window."

"Be moderate, for M---- M---- s honour depends on the secrecy we observe.
Let us go upstairs. We shall have some fun. I should like to see the
hussy."

Murray was the first to enter the room. As soon as the girl saw me, she
threw her handkerchief over her face, and told the ambassador that such
behaviour was unworthy of him. He made no answer. She was not so tall as
M---- M----, and she spoke bad French.

Her cloak and mask were on the bed, but she was dressed as a nun. As I
wanted to see her face, I politely asked her to do me the favour of
shewing it.

"I don't know you," said she; "who are you?"

"You are in my house, and don't know who I am?"

"I am in your house because I have been betrayed. I did not think that I
should have to do with a scoundrel."

At this word Murray commanded her to be silent, calling her by the name
of her honourable business; and the slut got up to take her cloak, saying
she would go. Murray pushed her back, and told her that she would have to
wait for her worthy friend, warning her to make no noise if she wanted to
keep out of prison.

"Put me in prison!"

With this she directed her hand towards her dress, but I rushed forward
and seized one hand while Murray mastered the other. We pushed her back
on a chair while we possessed ourselves of the pistols she carried in her
pockets.

Murray tore away the front of her holy habit, and I extracted a stiletto
eight inches long, the false nun weeping bitterly all the time.

"Will you hold your tongue, and keep quiet till Capsucefalo comes," said
the ambassador, "or go to prison?"

"If I keep quiet what will become of me?"

"I promise to let you go."

"With him?"

"Perhaps."

"Very well, then, I will keep quiet."

"Have you got any more weapons?"

Hereupon the slut took off her habit and her petticoat, and if we had
allowed her she would have soon been in a state of nature, no doubt in
the expectation of our passions granting what our reason refused. I was
much astonished to find in her only a false resemblance to M.M. I
remarked as much to the ambassador, who agreed with me, but made me
confess that most men, prepossessed with the idea that they were going to
see M. M., would have fallen into the same trap. In fact, the longing to
possess one's self of a nun who has renounced all the pleasures of the
world, and especially that of cohabitation with the other sex, is the
very apple of Eve, and is more delightful from the very difficulty of
penetrating the convent grating.

Few of my readers will fail to testify that the sweetest pleasures are
those which are hardest to be won, and that the prize, to obtain which
one would risk one's life, would often pass unnoticed if it were freely
offered without difficulty or hazard.

In the following chapter, dear reader, you will see the end of this
farcical adventure. In the mean time, let us take a little breath.


CHAPTER XXIV

Pleasant Ending of the Adventure of the False Nun--M. M. Finds Out That I
Have a Mistress--She is Avenged on the Wretch Capsucefalo--I Ruin Myself
at Play, and at the Suggestion of M. M. I Sell all Her Diamonds, One
After Another--I Hand Over Tonine to Murray, Who Makes Provision for
Her--Her Sister Barberine Takes Her Place.

"How did you make this nice acquaintance?" I asked the ambassador.

"Six months ago," he replied, "while standing at the convent gate with
Mr. Smith, our consul, in whose company I had been to see some ceremony
or other, I remarked to him, as we were talking over some nuns we had
noticed, 'I would gladly give five hundred sequins for a few hours of
Sister M---- M---- s company.' Count Capsucefalo heard what I said, but
made no remark. Mr. Smith answered that one could only see her at the
grating as did the ambassador of France, who often came to visit her.
Capsucefalo called on me the next morning, and said that if I had spoken
in good faith he was sure he could get me a night with the nun in
whatever place I liked, if she could count on my secrecy. 'I have just
been speaking to her,' said he, 'and on my mentioning your name she said
she had noticed you with Mr. Smith, and vowed she would sup with you more
for love than money. 'I,' said the rascal, 'am the only man she trusts,
and I take her to the French ambassador's casino in Venice whenever she
wants to go there. You need not be afraid of being cheated, as you will
give the money to her personally when you have possessed yourself of
her.' With this he took her portrait from his pocket and shewed it me;
and here it is. I bought it of him two days after I believed myself to
have spent a night with the charming nun, and a fortnight after our
conversation. This beauty here came masked in a nun's habit, and I was
fool enough to think I had got a treasure. I am vexed with myself for not
having suspected the cheat--at all events, when I saw her hair, as I know
that nuns' hair should be cut short. But when I said something about it
to the hussy, she told me they were allowed to keep their hair under
their caps, and I was weak enough to believe her."

I knew that on this particular Murray had not been deceived, but I did
not feel compelled to tell him so then and there.

I held the portrait Murray had given me in my hand, and compared it with
the face before me. In the portrait the breast was bare, and as I was
remarking that painters did those parts as best they could, the impudent
wench seized the opportunity to shew me that the miniature was faithful
to nature. I turned my back upon her with an expression of contempt which
would have mortified her, if these creatures were ever capable of shame.
As we talked things over, I could not help laughing at the axiom, Things
which are equal to the same thing are equal to one another, for the
miniature was like M. M. and like the courtezan, and yet the two women
were not like each other. Murray agreed with me, and we spent an hour in
a philosophical discussion on the matter. As the false M. M. was named
Innocente, we expressed a wish to know how her name agreed with her
profession, and how the knave had induced her to play the part she had
taken; and she told us the following story:

"I have known Count Capsucefalo for two years, and have found him useful,
for, though he has given me no money, he has made me profit largely
through the people he has introduced to me. About the end of last autumn
he came to me one day, and said that if I could make up as a nun with
some clothes he would get me, and in that character pass a night with an
Englishman, I should be the better by five hundred sequins. 'You need not
be afraid of anything,' said he, 'as I myself will take you to the casino
where the dupe will be awaiting you, and I will come and take you back to
your imaginary convent towards the end of the night. He shewed me how I
must behave, and told me what to reply if my lover asked any questions
about the discipline of the convent.

"I liked the plot, gentlemen, and I told him I was ready to carry it out.
And be pleased to consider that there are not many women of my profession
who would hesitate over a chance of getting five hundred sequins. Finding
the scheme both agreeable and profitable, I promised to play my part with
the greatest skill. The bargain was struck, and he gave me full
instructions as to my dialogue. He told me that the Englishman could only
talk about my convent and any lovers I might have had; that on the latter
point I was to cut him short, and to answer with a laugh that I did not
know what he was talking about, and even to tell him that I was a nun in
appearance only, and that in the course of toying I might let him see my
hair. 'That,' said Capsucefalo, 'won't prevent him from thinking you a
nun--yes! and the very nun he is amorous of, for he will have made up his
mind that you cannot possibly be anyone else.' Seizing the point of the
jest, I did not take the trouble to find out the name of the nun I was to
represent, nor the convent whence I was to come; the only thing in my
head was the five hundred sequins. So little have I troubled about aught
else that, though I passed a delicious night with you, and found you
rather worthy of being paid for than paying, I have not ascertained who
and what you are, and I don't know at this moment to whom I am speaking.
You know what a night I had; I have told you it was delicious, and I was
happy in the idea that I was going to have another. You have found
everything out. I am sorry, but I am not afraid of anything, since I can
put on any disguise I like, and can't prevent my lovers taking me for a
saint if they like to do so. You have found weapons in my possession, but
everyone is allowed to bear arms in self-defence. I plead not guilty on
all counts."

"Do you know me?" said I.

"No, but I have often seen you passing under my window. I live at St.
Roch, near the bridge."

The way in which the woman told her yarn convinced us that she was an
adept in the science of prostitution, but we thought Capsucefalo, in
spite of the count, worthy of the pillory. The girl was about ten years
older than M. M., she was pretty, but light-complexioned, while my
beautiful nun had fine dark brown hair and was at least three inches
taller.

After twelve o'clock we sat down to supper, and did honour to the
excellent meal which my dear Antoinette had prepared for us. We were
cruel enough to leave the poor wretch without offering her so much as a
glass of wine, but we thought it our duty.

While we were talking, the jolly Englishman made some witty comments on
my eagerness to convince him that he had not enjoyed M. M.'s favours.

"I can't believe," said he, "that you have shewn so much interest without
being in love with the divine nun."

I answered by saying that if I were her lover I was much to be pitied in
being condemned to go to the parlour, and no farther.

"I would gladly give a hundred guineas a month," said he, "to have the
privilege of visiting her at the grating."

So saying he gave me my hundred sequins, complimenting me on my success,
and I slipped them forthwith into my pocket.

At two o'clock in the morning we heard a soft knock on the street door.

"Here is our friend," I said, "be discreet, and you will see that he will
make a full confession."

He came in and saw Murray and the lady, but did not discover that a third
party was present till he heard the ante-room door being locked. He
turned round and saw me, and as he knew me, merely said, without losing
countenance:

"Ah, you are here; you know, of course, that the secret must be kept?"

Murray laughed and calmly asked him to be seated, and he enquired, with
the lady's pistols in his hands, where he was going to take her before
day-break.

"Home."

"I think you may be mistaken, as it is very possible that when you leave
this place you will both of you be provided with a bed in prison."

"No, I am not afraid of that happening; the thing would make too much
noise, and the laugh would not be on your side. Come," said he to his
mate, "put on your cloak and let us be off."

The ambassador, who like an Englishman kept quite cool the whole time,
poured him out a glass of Chambertin, and the blackguard drank his
health. Murray seeing he had on a fine ring set with brilliants, praised
it, and shewing some curiosity to see it more closely he drew it off the
fellow's finger, examined it, found it without flaw, and asked how much
it was worth. Capsucefalo, a little taken aback, said it cost him four
hundred sequins.

"I will hold it as a pledge for that sum," said the ambassador, putting
the ring into his pocket. The other looked chop-fallen, and Murray
laughing at his retiring manners told the girl to put on her cloak and to
pack off with her worthy acolyte. She did so directly, and with a low bow
they disappeared.

"Farewell, nun procurer!" said the ambassador, but the count made no
answer.

As soon as they were gone I thanked Murray warmly for the moderation he
had shewn, as a scandal would have only injured three innocent people.

"Be sure," said he, "that the guilty parties shall be punished without
anyone's knowing the reason."

I then made Tonine come upstairs, and my English friend offered her a
glass of wine, which she declined with much modesty and politeness.
Murray looked at her with flaming glances, and left after giving me his
heartiest thanks.

Poor little Tonine had been resigned, and obedient for many hours, and
she had good cause to think I had been unfaithful to her; however, I gave
her the most unmistakable proofs of my fidelity. We stayed in bed for six
hours, and rose happy in the morning.

After dinner I hurried off to my noble M---- M----, and told her the whole
story. She listened eagerly, her various feelings flitting across her
face. Fear, anger, wrath, approval of my method of clearing up my natural
suspicions, joy at discovering me still her lover--all were depicted in
succession in her glance, and in the play of her features, and in the red
and white which followed one another on her cheeks and forehead. She was
delighted to hear that the masker who was with me in the parlour was the
English ambassador, but she became nobly disdainful when I told her that
he would gladly give a hundred guineas a month for the pleasure of
visiting her in the parlour. She was angry with him for fancying that she
had been in his power, and for finding a likeness between her and a
portrait, when, so she said, there was no likeness at all; I had given
her the portrait. She added, with a shrewd smile, that she was sure I had
not let my little maid see the false nun, as she might have been
mistaken.

"You know, do you, that I have a young servant?"

"Yes, and a pretty one, too. She is Laura's daughter, and if you love her
I am very glad, and so is C---- C----. I hope you will let me have a sight
of her. C---- C---- has seen her before."

As I saw that she knew too much for me to be able to deceive her, I took
my cue directly and told her in detail the history of my amours. She
shewed her satisfaction too openly not to be sincere. Before I left her
she said her honour obliged her to get Capsucefalo assassinated, for the
wretch had wronged her beyond pardon. By way of quieting her I promised
that if the ambassador did not rid us of him within the week I would
charge myself with the execution of our common vengeance.

About this time died Bragadin the procurator, brother of my patron,
leaving M. de Bragadin sufficiently well off. However, as the family
threatened to become extinct, he desired a woman who had been his
mistress, and of whom he had had a natural son, to become his wife. By
this marriage the son would have become legitimate, and the family
renewed again. The College of Cardinals would have recognized the wife
for a small fee, and all would have gone admirably.

The woman wrote to me, asking me to call on her; and I was going to,
curious to know what a woman, whom I did not know from Adam, could want
with me, when I received a summons from M. de Bragadin. He begged me to
ask Paralis if he ought to follow De la Haye's advice in a matter he had
promised not to confide to me, but of which the oracle must be informed.
The oracle, naturally opposed to the Jesuit, told him to consult his own
feelings and nothing else. After this I went to the lady.

She began by telling me the whole story. She introduced her son to me,
and told me that if the marriage could be performed, a deed would be
delivered in my favour by which, at the death of M. de Bragadin, I should
become entitled to an estate worth five thousand crowns per annum.

As I guessed without much trouble that this was the same matter which De
la Haye had proposed to M. de Bragadin, I answered without hesitation
that since De la Haye was before me I could do nothing, and thereupon
made her my bow.

I could not help wondering at this Jesuit's continually intriguing to
marry my old friends without my knowledge. Two years ago, if I had not
set my face against it, he would have married M. Dandolo. I cared not a
whit whether the family of Bragadin became extinct or not, but I did care
for the life of my benefactor, and was quite sure that marriage would
shorten it by many years; he was already sixty-three, and had recovered
from a serious apoplectic stroke.

I went to dine with Lady Murray (English-women who are daughters of lords
keep the title), and after dinner the ambassador told me that he had told
M. Cavalli the whole story of the false nun, and that the secretary had
informed him, the evening before, that everything had been done to his
liking. Count Capsucefalo had been sent to Cephalonia, his native
country, with the order never to return to Venice, and the courtezan had
disappeared.

The fine part, or rather the fearful part, about these sentences is that
no one ever knows the reason why or wherefore, and that the lot may fall
on the innocent as well as the guilty. M. M. was delighted with the
event, and I was more pleased than she, for I should have been sorry to
have been obliged to soil my hands with the blood of that rascally count.

There are seasons in the life of men which may be called 'fasti' and
'nefasti'; I have proved this often in my long career, and on the
strength of the rubs and struggles I have had to encounter. I am able, as
well as any man, to verify the truth of this axiom. I had just
experienced a run of luck. Fortune had befriended me at play, I had been
happy in the society of men, and from love I had nothing to ask; but now
the reverse of the medal began to appear. Love was still kind, but
Fortune had quite left me, and you will soon see, reader, that men used
me no better than the blind goddess. Nevertheless, since one's fate has
phases as well as the moon, good follows evil as disasters succeed to
happiness.

I still played on the martingale, but with such bad luck that I was soon
left without a sequin. As I shared my property with M. M. I was obliged
to tell her of my losses, and it was at her request that I sold all her
diamonds, losing what I got for them; she had now only five hundred
sequins by her. There was no more talk of her escaping from the convent,
for we had nothing to live on! I still gamed, but for small stakes,
waiting for the slow return of good luck.

One day the English ambassador, after giving me a supper at his casino
with the celebrated Fanny Murray, asked me to let him sup at my casino at
Muran, which I now only kept up for the sake of Tonine. I granted him the
favour, but did not imitate his generosity. He found my little mistress
smiling and polite, but always keeping within the bounds of decency, from
which he would have very willingly excused her. The next morning he wrote
to me as follows:

"I am madly in love with Tonine. If you like to hand her over to me I
will make the following provision for her: I will set her up in a
suitable lodging which I will furnish throughout, and which I will give
to her with all its contents, provided that I may visit her whenever I
please, and that she gives me all the rights of a fortunate lover. I will
give her a maid, a cook, and thirty sequins a month as provision for two
people, without reckoning the wine, which I will procure myself. Besides
this I will give her a life income of two hundred crowns per annum, over
which she will have full control after living with me for a year. I give
you a week to send your answer."

I replied immediately that I would let him know in three days whether his
proposal were accepted, for Tonine had a mother of whom she was fond, and
she would possibly not care to do anything without her consent. I also
informed him that in all appearance the girl was with child.

The business was an important one for Tonine. I loved her, but I knew
perfectly well that we could not pass the rest of our lives together, and
I saw no prospect of being able to make her as good a provision as that
offered by the ambassador. Consequently I had no doubts on the question,
and the very same day I went to Muran and told her all.

"You wish to leave me, then," said she, in tears.

"I love you, dearest, and what I propose ought to convince you of my
love."

"Not so; I cannot serve two masters."

"You will only serve your new lover, sweetheart. I beg of you to reflect
that you will have a fine dowry, on the strength of which you may marry
well; and that however much I love you I cannot possibly make so good a
provision for you."

"Leave me to-day for tears and reflection, and come to supper with me
to-morrow."

I did not fail to keep the appointment.

"I think your English friend is a very pretty man," she said, "and when
he speaks in the Venetian dialect it makes me die with laughter. If my
mother agrees, I might, perhaps, force myself to love him. Supposing we
did not agree we could part at the end of a year, and I should be the
richer by an income of two hundred crowns."

"I am charmed with the sense of your arguments; speak about it to your
mother."

"I daren't, sweetheart; this kind of thing is too delicate to be
discussed between a mother and her daughter speak to her yourself."

"I will, indeed."

Laura, whom I had not seen since she had given me her daughter, asked for
no time to think it over, but full of glee told me that now her daughter
would be able to soothe her declining years, and that she would leave
Muran of which she was tired. She shewed me a hundred and thirty sequins
which Tonine had gained in my service, and which she had placed in her
hands.

Barberine, Tonine's younger sister, came to kiss my hand. I thought her
charming, and I gave her all the silver in my pocket. I then left,
telling Laura that I should expect her at my house. She soon followed me,
and gave her child a mother's blessing, telling her that she and her
family could go and live in Venice for sixty sous a day. Tonine embraced
her, and told her that she should have it.

This important affair having been managed to everybody's satisfaction, I
went to see M---- M----, who came into the parlour with C---- C----, whom I
found looking sad, though prettier than ever. She was melancholy, but
none the less tender. She could not stay for more than a quarter of an
hour for fear of being seen, as she was forbidden ever to go into the
parlour. I told M. M. the story of Tonine, who was going to live with
Murray in Venice; she was sorry to hear it, "for," said she, "now that
you have no longer any attraction at Muran, I shall see you less than
ever." I promised to come and see her often, but vain promises! The time
was near which parted us for ever.

The same evening I went to tell the good news to my friend Murray. He was
in a transport of joy, and begged me to come and sup with him at his
casino the day after next, and to bring the girl with me, that the
surrender might be made in form. I did not fail him, for once the matter
was decided, I longed to bring it to an end. In my presence he assigned
to her the yearly income for her life of two hundred Venetian ducats, and
by a second deed he gave her all the contents of the house with which he
was going to provide her, provided always that she lived with him for a
year. He allowed her to receive me as a friend, also to receive her
mother and sisters, and she was free to go and see them when she would.
Very interesting descriptions of the great battles of the late war,
written by prominent generals, have been lately published and widely
read. It seems to me, however, that it is time for the private soldier
to be heard from.

Of course, his field of vision is much more limited than that of his
general.

On the other hand, it is of vital importance to the latter to gloss over
his mistakes, and draw attention only to those things which will add to
his reputation. The private soldier has no such feeling. It is only to the
officers of high rank engaged that a battle can bring glory and renown.
To the army of common soldiers, who do the actual fighting, and risk
mutilation and death, there is no reward except the consciousness of duty
bravely performed. This was peculiarly the case in the late war, when
more than a million of young men, the flower of our country, left their
workshops and farms, their schools and colleges, to endure the hardships
of the march and the camp, to risk health, limb and life, that their
country might live, expecting nothing, hoping nothing for themselves,
but all for their fatherland.

The first really great battle of the war was that of Pittsburg Landing,
or Shiloh, and I shall not only attempt to give a general account of the
battle, but also describe it from the point of view of a man in the
ranks.

In respect to the general features of this desperate struggle between our
own countrymen, my statements are derived from many reports and accounts
carefully collated, and from many conversations with soldiers engaged,
both from the Union and Confederate armies.

Who of us, having reached middle life, does not recall the exultation
and enthusiasm aroused by the news of the capture of Fort Donelson?

What a thrill of pride and patriotism was felt through all the loyal
North! The soldiers of the great Northwest had attacked a citadel of the
rebellion, and captured it, with sixteen thousand of its defenders.

At this time the Third Iowa Infantry was strung along the North Missouri
Railroad, guarding bridges and doing other police work.
Company B, which had the honor of having on its muster roll private
Olney, was stationed at that time in the little town of Sturgeon, Missouri,
where our principal occupation was to keep from freezing. We had then
spent eight months campaigning in that border State--that is, if you
call guarding railways and bridges, and attempting to overawe the
disaffected, enlivened now and then by a brisk skirmish, campaigning. The
Second Iowa had led the charge which captured the hostile breastworks at
Donelson, and General Grant had telegraphed to General Halleck at St.
Louis, who had repeated the message to the Governor of our State,
that the Second Iowa was the bravest of the brave.

The First Iowa had distinguished itself at Wilson's Creek, near
Springfield, under General Lyon, while _we_--well, we hadn't done much
of anything but to get a licking at Blue Mills.

Therefore, when a message to move came, and we found ourselves on
the way to join General Grant's army, we felt quite hilarious.

At St. Louis we were put on board the steamer "Iatan." Down the Mississippi,
up the Ohio, up the Tennessee. As we proceeded up the Tennessee we were
continually overtaking or being joined by other steamboats loaded with
troops, until presently the river was alive with transports,
carrying the army of the West right into the heart of the Confederacy.

It was a beautiful and stirring sight; mild weather had set in (it was
now the second week of March), the flotilla of steamboats, black
with soldiers, bands playing, flags flying, all combined to arouse
and interest.

It was the "pomp and circumstance of glorious war."

Frequent stoppages were made, giving us a chance to run ashore. About the
thirteenth we reached the landing-place, which soon afterwards became
famous.

The river was very high, and at first there seemed to be doubts as
to where a landing should be effected, but in a few days the question
was settled.

Our boat was moored as near the shore as possible, and we joined
the immense throng painfully making their way through the unfathomable
mud to camps in the dense woods.

The first things I observed after reaching the high bluff, were
trees that had been torn and shattered by shells from our gunboats,
which, it seems, had dislodged a company of Confederates, who had
dug rifle-pits on the bluff, from whence they had fired on our
steamboats.

We first camped on the bluff near the landing, but shortly moved back about
a mile from the river, and camped on the edge of a small cotton field
with dense forests all around. The Hamburg road ran past the left of our
line, between us and the Forty-first Illinois; while on the right was a
small ravine, which ran into a little creek, and that into Snake Creek.

The mud--well, it was indescribable. Though we were only a mile from our
base of supplies, the greatest difficulty was experienced in getting
camp equipage and provisions.

We found that other divisions of the army had landed before us,
moving farther out to the front towards Corinth, and had so cut up
the roads that they were quagmires their whole length.

Teams were stalled in the mud in every direction. The principal features
of the landscape were trees, mud, wagons buried to the hub, and
struggling, plunging mule teams.

The shouts of teamsters and resounding whacks filled the air; and as to
profanity--well, you could see the air about an enraged teamster turn
blue as he exhorted his impenitent mules. And the rain! how it did come
down! As I recall it, the spring of 1862 did not measure its rainfall
in Western Tennessee by inches, but by feet.

But in time our camp was fairly established. Sibley tents were
distributed, one for fourteen men. They protected us from the rain, but
they had their drawbacks. Several of us were schoolmates from a Western
college, and, of course, in some respects, constituted a little aristocracy.
We had had a small tent to ourselves, and the socialistic grayback, as
yet, had not crawled therein.

Now, we were required to share our tent with others, and that might mean
a great many. But when it came to a question of sleeping out in the
cold rain, or camping down in a crowded tent in true democratic equality
and taking the chances of immigration from our neighbors' clothing, we did
not prefer the rain.

Of course, the private soldier has not much opportunity for exploration
about his camp, however strong may be his passion in that direction.

I did what I could, but my knowledge of the general encampment was much
enlarged when, during the days following the battle, all discipline
being relaxed, I tramped the field over in every direction and
talked with the men of numerous regiments on their camp grounds.

Further on, I shall refer to the position occupied by our army more at
length, and shall only refer now to the general position of our
encampment, as on a wooded plateau, accessible to attack only from
the direction of Corinth, the river being in our rear, Snake Creek
and Owl Creek on our right flank, and Lick Creek on our left.

In places there were small fields with their adjuncts of deserted cabins.
Our troops were camped wherever there was an opening in the woods or
underbrush sufficiently large for a regiment.

There seemed to be no order or system about the method of encampment, but
each regiment occupied such suitable ground as presented itself in the
neighborhood of the rest of the brigade; and the same was true of
the brigades composing the divisions.

Our regiment was brigaded with the Twenty-eighth, Thirty-second, and
Forty-first Illinois. The division was commanded by Brigadier-General
Stephen A.

Hurlbut (since somewhat noted as United States Minister to Peru).

We had served under him in Missouri, and our principal recollection of
him was an event which occurred at Macon. We had got aboard a train
of cattle cars for the purpose of going to the relief of some point
threatened by the enemy.

After waiting on the train two or three hours, expecting every moment to
start, we noticed a couple of staff officers supporting on each
side the commanding general, and leading him to the car I was in.

Getting him to the side of the car, they boosted him in at the door,
procured a soldier's knapsack for him to sit on, and left him.

He was so drunk he couldn't sit upright.

The consequence was that the regimental officers refused to move. A
court-martial followed, and we heard no more of our general until
we found him at Pittsburg Landing in command of a division.

He showed so much coolness and bravery in the battle which followed,
that we forgave him his first scandalous appearance.

But the distrust of him before the battle can readily be imagined.

No one who has not been through the experience can realize the
anxiety of the private soldier respecting the character and capacity
of his commanding officer.

His life is in the general's hand.

Whether he shall be uselessly sacrificed, may depend wholly upon the coolness
or readiness for an emergency of the commander; whether he has had two
drinks or three; whether he has had a good night's rest, or a good
cigar.

The private soldier regards a new and unknown commander very much as a slave
does a new owner, and with good reason. Without confidence on the part
of the rank and file, victory is impossible.
Their soldiers' confidence in Stonewall Jackson and Lee doubled the
effective strength of their armies.

When in the Franco-Prussian war a German regiment was called upon
for a charge, each man felt that the order was given because it was
necessary, and that what he was doing was part of a comprehensive
scheme, whose success might very likely depend upon whether he did
his assigned part manfully.

The French soldier in that war had no such feeling and, of course, the
result of that campaign was not long in doubt.

In Napoleon's time, the confidence of the rank and file was such
that time and again he was saved from defeat by the feeling of the
attacked corps or detachment that it _must_ hold its ground, or
probably imperil the army.

Oh, the sickening doubt and distrust of our generals during the first years
of the war!
Our soldiers were as brave as ever trod the earth, and thoroughly
imbued with the cause for which they were fighting; but the suspicion
that at headquarters there might be inefficiency or drunkenness;
that marches and counter-marches had no definite purpose; that their
lives might be uselessly thrown away--you would have to go through
it to realize it!

At the beginning of the war, the Southerners had a vast advantage
over us in that respect. Generally speaking, they started out with
the same able commanders they had at the end.

Our colonel was thoroughly disliked and distrusted. As he was the ranking
colonel of the brigade, he was placed in command of it; so you see we did
not feel particularly happy over the situation, especially as we knew
the Confederate army was only twenty-two miles off.

The steady, cold rains of the first week or two was most depressing.

On account, probably, of the bad weather and exposure, the soldiers' worst
enemy, diarrhoea, took possession of our camps, and for a week or ten
days we literally had no stomachs for fighting. But after a little the
rain let up, the sun came out warm, our spirits revived, the roads, and
consequently the supplies improved; and on the whole, we thought it
rather jolly.

If you had been there of a warm, sunny day you would have noticed
every log and stump serving as a seat for a soldier, who had taken
off his shirt and was diligently hunting it all over.

It was not safe to ask him what he was looking for.

Troops were continually arriving, some of them freshly recruited, and not
yet familiar with their arms, or the simplest elements of regimental
maneuvers. It was said there were some regiments who had just received
their guns, and had never fired them. Badeau says they came on the
field without cartridges.

I know that improved rifles were scarce, for my own regiment at
that time did not have rifles, but old smooth bore muskets with
buck-and-ball ammunition--that is, the cartridge had next to the
powder a large ball, and then next to it three buck shot.

Of course, we should have had no show against rifles at long range, but
at short range, in woods and brush, these weapons were fearfully
destructive, as we shall presently see.

Strange to say, these freshly recruited regiments were assigned to Sherman's
division and to Prentiss' division, whose camps were scattered in
the woods farthest out towards Corinth.

As might have been expected, these new soldiers did not stand on
the order of their going, when they suddenly discovered a hostile
army on top of them.

A map of the place selected for the concentration of our army
shows that with proper precautions and such defensive works as, later in
the war, would have been constructed within a few hours, the place was
impregnable.

The river which ran in the rear was controlled by our gunboats, and
furnished us the means of obtaining abundant supplies.
Creeks with marshy banks protected either flank.

The only possible avenue of attack upon this position was directly in
front, and across that ran little creeks and ravines, with here and
there open fields affording fine vantage-ground.

A general anticipating the possibility of attack, would not have
scattered his divisions so widely, and would have marked a line of
defense upon which the troops should rally.

Advantage would have been taken of the ground, and trees felled with
the tops outwards, through which an attacking force would have,
with great difficulty, to struggle.

And later in the war, as a matter of precaution, and because of the
proximity of the enemy, breastworks would have been thrown up. All this
could have been done in a few hours. Our flanks were so well protected
that no troops were needed there, and in case of attack, each
division commander should have had his place in the front, to which
to immediately march his command; while, the line being not more
than three miles long at the very outside estimate, there were
abundant forces to man it thoroughly, leaving a large force in the
reserve to reinforce a point imperiled.

Why was not this done?

It is hard to find an answer. General Sherman's division was at the extreme
front. It was being organized. The enemy was not more than twenty-two
miles away, and was known to be concentrating from all the West. Yet this
general, who afterwards acquired such fame as a consummate master
of the art of war, took no precautions whatever, not even thoroughly
scouting the ground in his front.

His pickets could not have been out more than a mile. General Prentiss'
division was also in process of organization, and he, like Sherman,
was in advance, and on Sherman's left. The complete absence of the
ordinary precautions, always taken by military commanders since
the beginning of history, is inexplicable.

The only reason I can conjecture for it grows out of the character
of General Grant and his distinguished subordinate, and their
inexperience. They had had then little practical knowledge of actual
warfare.

General Sherman, except on one occasion, had never heard a hostile gun
fired. They had to learn their art, and the country and their army had
to pay the cost of their teaching. Happily, they were able to profit by
every lesson, and soon had no equals among our commanders.

But because they have since deserved so well of their country, is no reason
why history should be silent as to their mistakes. The Confederates would
have made a great mistake in attacking us at all in such a position,
if we had been prepared to receive them. But this want of preparation
prevented us from taking advantage of the opportunity, and inflicting a
crushing defeat upon the South.

By it the war was prolonged, and every village and hamlet in the West had
its house of mourning.

Immediately in the right rear of General Sherman was camped the veteran
division of General McClernand. About two miles further back, and about
a mile from the river, was stationed the reserve, consisting of
two divisions, Hurlbut's and W. H. L. Wallace's, formerly C. F.
Smith's.

Across Owl Creek, and seven or eight miles off, was camped General
Lew Wallace's division. It was so far away as not to be in easy supporting
distance.

On April 1st, our division was marched to an open field, and there
carefully reviewed by General Grant.

This was our first sight of the victor of Donelson. Friday, the 4th of
April, was a sloppy day, and just before sundown we heard firing off towards
Sherman's division.

We fell into line and started toward the front.

After we had marched about a mile, pitch darkness came on.

Presently, a staff officer directed a counter-march back to camp,
saying it was only a rebel reconnoisance.
It was a nasty march back in the mud, dense woods, and thick darkness.

All this day the Confederate army was struggling through the woods
and mud, on its march from Corinth to attack us.

It was the expectation of General Johnston and his subordinates to
cover the intervening space between the two armies in this one day and
attack early Saturday morning; but the difficulties of the march was
such, that he did not make more than half the distance, and had to go into
camp for the night. Saturday was a reasonably pleasant day, but General
Johnston's troops had got so entangled in the forests, he did not feel
justified in attacking until all his preparations were made, which
took the whole of Saturday.

He then moved up to within a mile or two of Sherman and Prentiss, and went
into camp _within sound of our drums_.

The delay had been so great that Beauregard now advised a countermarch
back to Corinth. He represented that our forces had surely been
appraised of their march, and it would be too late now to effect
a surprise; that they would undoubtedly find us all prepared, and
probably behind breastworks and other obstructions.

General Johnston was smarting under the criticisms of the campaign which
resulted in the loss of Donelson. His courage and military instinct
told him that now was the time to strike. He felt, too, that a bold
stroke was necessary to redeem the fortunes of the Confederacy and his
own reputation. His resolution was to conquer or die; and he replied to
Beauregard: "We shall attack at daylight to-morrow."
Here was an army of a little over 40,000 men, as brave as ever
shouldered muskets, fighting on their own soil, and, as they believed,
for homes and liberty, resting for the night at about two miles
from the invading army, and all prepared to attack at dawn, and
sweep the invaders of their country back into the Tennessee river.

Upon the favoring breeze, the sound of our drums at evening parade came
floating to their ears. They heard the bugle note enjoying quiet and
repose in the camp of their unsuspecting foe. They, themselves, were
crouching in the thick woods and darkness, all prepared to spring on
their prey. No camp-fire was lighted; no unnecessary sound was permitted;
but silent, watchful, with mind and heart prepared for conflict,
the Southern hosts waited for the morning.

Such was the situation, so far as our enemies were concerned. But how was
it with the army fighting for the integrity and preservation of the
nation? Let us begin with the commanding General. That day (Saturday)
he dispatched General Halleck as follows: "The main force of the army
is at Corinth. * * * The number at Corinth and within supporting distance
of it cannot be far from 80,000 men." Later in the day he dispatched the
news of the enemy's reconnoisance the night before, and added: "I
have scarcely the faintest idea of an attack (general one) being
made upon us, but will be prepared should a thing take place."

Grant had less than 50,000 men fit for battle. He thinks the enemy at
Corinth, twenty-two miles away, has 80,000 men. He must know that the
enemy knows Buell, with his army, will soon reach the Tennessee, and when
united with his own will nearly double his effective strength; that
now, and before Buell joins him, if ever, must the Confederates strike
an effective blow. His pickets have been driven in the night before, the
enemy using a piece or two of artillery; yet he does not expect an attack,
and makes not the slightest preparation to receive or repel one. He leaves
General Lew Wallace with over 7,000 good troops at Crump's Landing, out
of easy supporting distance, Nelson's division and Crittenden's division
of Buell's army at Savannah; and has no thought of moving them up that
day to repel an overwhelming attack about to be made on him. On
Saturday he visits his army and Sherman, and then goes back to
Savannah, unsuspicious of the presence of the enemy.

How was it with General Sherman, who had the advance on the right, and was
probably more relied upon by Grant and Halleck than was Prentiss?
Neat autumn I am
going into the country with her, and I hope the fresh air will do me
good. My god-father knows you are staying with us and is satisfied. He
does not know you, but if you like you can make his acquaintance."

I was glad to hear all this, as I gained a good deal of useful
information without having to ask any awkward questions. The friendship
of this Greek looked very like love. He was the husband of Countess
S----, who had taken me to the convent at Muran two years before.

I found the count a very polite man. He thanked me in a paternal manner
for my kindness to his daughter, and begged me to do him the honour of
dining with him on the following day, telling me that he would introduce
me to his wife. I accepted his invitation with pleasure, for I was fond
of dramatic situations, and my meeting with the countess promised to be
an exciting one. This invitation bespoke the courteous gentleman, and I
charmed my pretty pupil by singing his praises after he had gone.

"My god-father," said she, "is in possession of all the necessary
documents for withdrawing from the house of Persico our family fortune,
which amounts to forty thousand crowns. A quarter of this sum belongs to
me, and my mother has promised my sister and myself to share her dowry
between us."

I concluded from this that she would bring her husband fifteen thousand
Venetian ducats.

I guessed that she was appealing to me with her fortune, and wished to
make me in love with her by shewing herself chary of her favours; for
whenever I allowed myself any small liberties, she checked me with words,
of remonstrance to which I could find no answer. I determined to make her
pursue another course.

Next day I took her with me to her god-father's without telling her that
I knew the countess. I fancied the lady would pretend not to know me, but
I was wrong, as she welcomed me in the handsomest manner as if I were an
old friend. This, no doubt, was a surprise for the count, but he was too
much a man of the world to, shew any astonishment. He asked her when she
had made my acquaintance, and she, like a woman of experience, answered
without the slightest hesitation that we had seen each other two years
ago at Mira. The matter was settled, and we spent a very pleasant day.

Towards evening I took the young lady in my gondola back to the house,
but wishing to shorten the journey I allowed myself to indulge in a few
caresses. I was hurt at being responded to by reproaches, and for that
reason, as soon as she had set foot on her own doorstep, instead of
getting out I went to Tonine's house, and spent nearly the whole night
there with the ambassador, who came a little after me. Next day, as I did
not get up till quite late, there was no dancing lesson, and when I
excused myself she told me not to trouble any more about it. In the
evening I sat on the balcony far into the night, but she did not come.
Vexed at this air of indifference I rose early in the morning and went
out, not returning till nightfall. She was on the balcony, but as she
kept me at a respectful distance I only talked to her on commonplace
subjects. In the morning I was roused by a tremendous noise. I got up,
and hurriedly putting on my dressing-gown ran into her room to see what
was the matter, only to find her dying. I had no need to feign an
interest in her, for I felt the most tender concern. As it was at the
beginning of July it was extremely hot, and my fair invalid was only
covered by a thin sheet. She could only speak to me with her eyes, but
though the lids were lowered she looked upon me so lovingly! I asked her
if she suffered from palpitations, and laying my hand upon her heart I
pressed a fiery kiss upon her breast. This was the electric spark, for
she gave a sigh which did her good. She had not strength to repulse the
hand which I pressed amorously upon her heart, and becoming bolder I
fastened my burning lips upon her languid mouth. I warmed her with my
breath, and my audacious hand penetrated to the very sanctuary of bliss.
She made an effort to push me back, and told me with her eyes, since she
could not speak, how insulted she felt. I drew back my hand, and at that
moment the surgeon came. Hardly was the vein opened when she drew a long
breath, and by the time the operation was over she wished to get up. I
entreated her to stay in bed, and her mother added her voice to mine; at
last I persuaded her, telling her that I would not leave her for a
second, and that I would have my dinner by her bedside. She then put on a
corset and asked her sister to draw a sarcenet coverlet over her, as her
limbs could be seen as plainly as through a crape veil.

Having given orders for my dinner, I sat down by her bedside, burning
with love, and taking her hand and covering it with kisses I told her
that I was sure she would get better if she would let herself love.

"Alas!" she said, "whom shall I love, not knowing whether I shall be
loved in return?"

I did not leave this question unanswered, and continuing the amorous
discourse with animation I won a sigh and a lovelorn glance. I put my
hand on her knee, begging her to let me leave it there, and promising to
go no farther, but little by little I attained the center, and strove to
give her some pleasant sensations.

"Let me alone," said she, in a sentimental voice, drawing away, "'tis
perchance the cause of my illness."

"No, sweetheart," I replied, "that cannot be." And my mouth stopped all
her objections upon her lips.

I was enchanted, for I was now in a fair way, and I saw the moment of
bliss in the distance, feeling certain that I could effect a cure if the
doctor was not mistaken. I spared her all indiscreet questions out of
regard for her modesty; but I declared myself her lover, promising to ask
nothing of her but what was necessary to feed the fire of my love. They
sent me up a very good dinner, and she did justice to it; afterwards
saying that she was quite well she got up, and I went away to dress
myself for going out. I came back early in the evening, and found her on
my balcony. There, as I sat close to her looking into her face, speaking
by turns the language of the eyes and that of sighs, fixing my amorous
gaze upon those charms which the moonlight rendered sweeter, I made her
share in the fire which consumed me; and as I pressed her amorously to my
bosom she completed my bliss with such warmth that I could easily see
that she thought she was receiving a favour and not granting one. I
sacrificed the victim without staining the altar with blood.

Her sister came to tell her that it grew late.

"Do you go to bed," she answered; "the fresh air is doing me good, and I
want to enjoy it a little longer."

As soon as we were alone we went to bed together as if we had been doing
it for a whole year, and we passed a glorious night, I full of love and
the desire of curing her, and she of tender and ardent voluptuousness. At
day-break she embraced me, her eyes dewy with bliss, and went to lie down
in her own bed. I, like her, stood in need of a rest, and on that day
there was no talk of a dancing lesson. In spite of the fierce pleasure of
enjoyment and the transports of this delightful girl, I did not for a
moment lay prudence aside. We continued to pass such nights as these for
three weeks, and I had the pleasure of seeing her thoroughly cured. I
should doubtless have married her, if an event had not happened to me
towards the end of the month, of which I shall speak lower down.

You will remember, dear reader, about a romance by the Abbe Chiari, a
satirical romance which Mr. Murray had given me, and in which I fared
badly enough at the author's hands I had small reason to be pleased with
him, and I let him know my opinion in such wise that the abbe who dreaded
a caning, kept upon his guard. About the same time I received an
anonymous letter, the writer of which told me that I should be better
occupied in taking care of myself than in thoughts of chastising the
abbe, for I was threatened by an imminent danger. Anonymous
letter-writers should be held in contempt, but one ought to know how, on
occasion, to make the best of advice given in that way. I did nothing,
and made a great mistake.

About the same time a man named Manuzzi, a stone setter for his first
trade, and also a spy, a vile agent of the State Inquisitors--a man of
whom I knew nothing--found a way to make my acquaintance by offering to
let me have diamonds on credit, and by this means he got the entry of my
house. As he was looking at some books scattered here and there about the
room, he stopped short at the manuscripts which were on magic. Enjoying
foolishly enough, his look of astonishment, I shewed him the books which
teach one how to summon the elementary spirits. My readers will, I hope,
do me the favour to believe that I put no faith in these conjuring books,
but I had them by me and used to amuse myself with them as one does amuse
one's self with the multitudinous follies which proceed from the heads of
visionaries. For Robert of Gloucester, in his Chronicle, tells us of
King William Rufus:

"As his chamberlain him brought, as he rose a day, A morrow for to wear,
a pair hose of say, He asked what they costned; three shillings said the
other.
'Fie, a devil,' quoth the King, 'who say so vile deed?
King to wear any cloth, but it costned more:
Buy a pair of a mark, or thou shalt be acorye sore.'

A worse pair of ynou the other sith him brought, And said they were for
a mark, and unnethe so he bought.
'Yea, bel ami,' quoth the King, 'they be well bought; In this way serve
me, or thou ne shalt serve me not.'"

It was King Stephen, I believe,
"who was a luckless clown; His breeches cost him half a crown;"
but King Stephen had to contend with rebellion and civil war the whole of
his unhappy reign, so doubtless popular sentiment would assign him a
smaller share of the world's goods than King William Rufus.

In Westcote's time, in the early seventeenth century, the wool that
was worked here in Devon was brought from all over England--Dorset,
Gloucester, Wales, London, and also Ireland; and clothmaking had
become so large an industry that agriculture had suffered considerably.

"And every rumour of war or contagious sickness . . . makes a multitude
of the poorer sort chargeable to their neighbours, who are bound to
maintain them . . . the meanest sort of people also will now
rather place their children to some of these mechanical trades than to
husbandry, whereby husbandry-labourers are more scarce, and hirelings
more dear than in former times."
[Illustration: Woody Bay and Duty Point, West Lynton]
This little passage in Westcote is, I think, of great interest, as showing
the difficulties which had already arisen in the time of James I, with
the extension of industry, which must always flourish at the expense
of agriculture, and which seems to tend, nevertheless, both to personal
and to national prosperity.

It is a problem for which we have not yet found a solution, and at the
present time it comes before us with especial vividness and force.
Westcote gives a list of the various fabrics that are made in Devon;
some of them seem to be materials no longer in use, from the
unfamiliarity of the names.

Exeter manufactured serges, both fine and coarse; Crediton (the famous
locality of the burning of Crediton Barns, in the Middle Ages) made kersies;
and Totnes a stuff called "narrow pin-whites," which is, I believe, a
coarse, loosely woven white material; Barnstaple and Torrington were noted
for "bays," single and double (perhaps of the same texture as our modern
baize), and for "frizados"; and Pilton, adjacent to Barnstaple, was notorious
rather than celebrated for the making of cotton linings, so cheap and
coarse a stuff that a popular "vae" or "woe" was locally pronounced
against them. "Woe unto you, Piltonians, that make cloth without
wool!"
It was in the woollen trade that the family of De Wichehalse, afterwards
so intimately connected with Lynton, made the fortune that enabled
them to become one of the leading houses of Barnstaple, and to acquire
the beautiful estate near Lynton, which is now known as Lee Abbey. It
may, perhaps, be of interest to the "curious-minded" to give an inventory
of his shop, taken in 1607 at the death of Nicholas de Wichehalse, who
had married Lettice, the daughter of the Mayor of Barnstaple.

The following are the chief items of the inventory, collected from
manuscript records by Mr. Chanter for the Devonshire Association:

182 yds. of coloured bays at . . . . . . 1s. 4d. a yd.
49 " kersey at . . . . . . . . . . . 2s. 4d. " broadcloth . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . 8s. 0d. " 147 yds. of coarse grey ffrize at
. . . 11d. " buffyns in remnants (whatever they may be!)

. . . . . . . . . . L1 9s. 4d.
Also lace, silk, black velvet, broad taffeta, leaven taffeta . . . and 5
small boxes of marmalade.

Mr. Chanter conjectures that this last item is marmalade, and can
read it as nothing else, though he was not aware that it was a preserve
of Queen Elizabeth's time, nor why, even if it were, it should be in De
Wichehalse's shop.

It was the prosperity of the De Wichehalses, the Salisburys, the Deamonds,
and other enterprising merchants, which beautified the town with
public buildings, almshouses, and their private residences--for the
enrichment of which, as I have already stated, Italian workmen were
brought over--and the seventeenth century was the time of the town's
greatest importance and prosperity, when Barnstaple traded with
Virginia and the West Indies, the Spaniards in South America and
on the Continent.

The Customs receipts show a very great import of tobacco, and there was a
considerable manufacture of pipes, as a branch of local pottery.
This made me
laugh heartily, and I was pleased to find her looking neater than usual,
which, doubtless, made me find her looking prettier. She reminded me of
St. Andre, and succeeded so well in her efforts that I was on the point
of satisfying her desires. I took off my cloak, and asked her if her
father were in. She told me he had gone out. Being obliged to go out for
a minute, in coming back I mistook the door, and I found myself in the
next room, where I was much astonished to see the count and two
villainous-looking fellows with him.

"My dear count," I said, "your daughter has just told me that you were
out."

"I myself told her to do so, as I have some business with these
gentlemen, which, however, can wait for another day."

I would have gone, but he stopped me, and having dismissed the two men he
told me that he was delighted to see me, and forthwith began the tale of
his troubles, which were of more than one kind. The State Inquisitors had
stopped his slender pension, and he was on the eve of seeing himself
driven out with his family into the streets to beg his bread. He said
that he had not been able to pay his landlord anything for three years,
but if he could pay only a quarter's rent, he would obtain a respite, or
if he persisted in turning him out, he could make a night-flitting of it,
and take up his abode somewhere else. As he only wanted twenty ducats, I
took out six sequins and gave them to him. He embraced me, and shed tears
of joy; then, taking his poor cloak, he called his daughter, told her to
keep me company, and went out.

Alone with the countess, I examined the door of communication between the
two rooms and found it slightly open.

"Your father," I said, "would have surprised me, and it is easy to guess
what he would have done with the two sbirri who were with him. The rest
was much at this rate, entertained with the prettiest odd phrases,
that I had the most ado to look soberly enough for the place I was
in that ever I had in my life.

He does not preach so always, sure; if he does, I cannot believe his sermons
will do much towards the bringing anybody to heaven more than by exercising
their patience; yet I'll say that for him, he stood stoutly for tithes,
though in my opinion few deserve them less than he, and it may be
he would be better without them.

Yet you say you are not convinced that to be miserable is the way to
be good; to some natures I think it is not; but there are many of so
careless and vain a temper that the least breath of good fortune
swells them with so much pride, that if they were not put in mind sometimes
by a sound cross or two that they are mortal, they would hardly think
it possible; and though it is a sign of a servile nature, when fear
produces more of reverence in us than love, yet there is more danger
of forgetting one's self in a prosperous fortune than in the contrary;
and affliction may be the surest though not the pleasantest guide
to heaven.

What think you, might I not preach with Mr. Marshall for a wager?...

TO THE SAME

_The ideal husband_

[No date; _c_. 1653.]
There are a great many ingredients must go to the making me happy
in a husband.

My cousin F. says our humours must agree, and to do that he must
have that kind of breeding that I have had, and used to that kind of
company; that is, he must not be so much a country gentleman as to
understand nothing but hawks and dogs, and be fonder of either than of
his wife; nor of the next sort of them, whose time reaches no farther than
to be justice of peace, and once in his life high sheriff, who reads no
book but statutes, and studies nothing but how to make a speech
interlarded with Latin, that may amaze his disagreeing poor neighbours,
and fright them rather than persuade them into quietness.

He must not be a thing that began the world in a free school, was sent
from thence to the university, and is at his farthest when he reaches the
inns of court; has no acquaintance but those of his form in those places;
speaks the French he has picked out of old laws, and admires nothing
but the stories he has heard of the revels that were kept there
before his time.

He must not be a town gallant neither, that lives in a tavern and an
ordinary; that cannot imagine how an hour should be spent without company
unless it be in sleeping; that makes court to all the women he sees,
thinks they believe him, and laughs and is laughed at equally. Nor a
travelled Monsieur, whose head is feathered inside and outside, that can
talk of nothing but of dances and duels, and has courage enough to wear
slashes, when every body else dies with cold to see him.
The Venetians of old time who made as
great a mystery of love as of state affairs, have been replaced by the
modern Venetians, whose most prominent characteristic is to make a
mystery of nothing. Those who come to the Erberia with women wish to
excite the envy of their friends by thus publishing their good fortune.
Those who come alone are on the watch for discoveries, or on the look-out
for materials to make wives or husbands jealous, the women only come to
be seen, glad to let everybody know that they are without any restraint
upon their actions. There was certainly no question of smartness there,
considering the disordered style of dress worn. The women seemed to have
agreed to shew all the signs of disorder imaginable, to give those who
saw them something to talk about. As for the men, on whose arms they
leaned, their careless and lounging airs were intended to give the idea
of a surfeit of pleasure, and to make one think that the disordered
appearance of their companions was a sure triumph they had enjoyed. In
short it was the correct thing to look tired out, and as if one stood in
need of sleep.

It was a little after six when I drew near to the church and antique brick
dwelling-house adjoining it which were the church and rectory of Eversley.
There were no other houses near, so that it was evidently a wide and
scattered parish.
Old trees shaded the venerable irregularly-shaped parsonage, ivy
and creeping plants covered the walls, and roses peeped out here
and there.

Mr. Kingsley himself met me at the open hall-door, and there was something
in his clear and cheerful tone that gave a peculiar sense of welcome to
his greeting. "Very glad to see you," said he.
Then taking my bag from the fly, "Let me show you your room at once, that
you may make yourself comfortable."

So, leading the way, he conducted me up stairs and along a somewhat intricate
passage to a room in the oldest part of the house. It was a quaint
apartment, with leaden casements, a low ceiling, an uneven floor--a room
four hundred years old, as Mr. Kingsley told me, but having withal a
very habitable look. "I hope you'll be comfortable here," said my host as
he turned to go--"as comfortable as one can be in a cottage. Have you
everything you want?

There will be a tea-dinner or a dinner-tea in about half an hour." Then,
as he lingered, he asked, "When did you see Forster last?"
"Six weeks ago," I said--"in London. He had just received news of the
vacancy at Leeds, and at once determined to offer himself as the Liberal
candidate. He went to Leeds for this purpose, but subsequently withdrew
his name. I gather from his speech at the banquet his supporters gave him
afterward that this was a mistake, and that if he had stood he would
have been elected."
"Ah," said Kingsley, "I should like to see Forster in Parliament.

He is not the man, however, to make head against the _tracasseries_ of
an election contest."
Some other talk we had, and then he left me, coming back before
long to conduct me to the drawing-room.

Two gentlemen were there--one a visitor who soon took leave; the
other, the tutor to Mr. Kingsley's son. Mrs. Kingsley came in now and shook
hands with me cordially, and I had very soon the sense of being at one
with them all. Our having mutual friends did much toward this good
understanding, but it was partly that we seemed at once to have so much
to talk of on the events of the day, and on English matters in which I
took keen interest.

India was naturally our first subject, and the great and absorbing
question of the mutiny. I told what the London news was in regard
to it, and how serious was the look of things.These three men were
thoroughly religious and virtuous citizens; I was nothing if not
irreligious, and Venice did not contain a greater libertine. Virtue, it
was said, may have compassion on vice, but cannot become its friend.

After dinner M. de Bragadin took me into his closet with his two friends,
from whom he had no secrets. He told me with wonderful calmness that
instead of meditating vengeance on Messer-Grande I should be thinking of
putting myself in a place of safety. "The portmanteau," said he, "was a
mere pretext; it was you they wanted and thought to find. Since your good
genius has made them miss you, look out for yourself; perhaps by
to-morrow it may be too late. I have been a State Inquisitor for eight
months, and I know the way in which the arrests ordered by the court are
carried out. They would not break open a door to look for a box of salt.
Indeed, it is possible that they knew you were out, and sought to warn
you to escape in this manner. Take my advice, my dear son, and set out
directly for Fusina, and thence as quickly as you can make your way to
Florence, where you can remain till I write to you that you may return
with safety. If you have no money I will give you a hundred sequins for
present expenses. Believe me that prudence bids you go."

Blinded by my folly, I answered him that being guilty of nothing I had
nothing to fear, and that consequently, although I knew his advice was
good, I could not follow it.

"The high court," said he, "may deem you guilty of crimes real or
imaginary; but in any case it will give you no account of the accusations
against you. Ask your oracle if you shall follow my advice or not." I
refused because I knew the folly of such a proceeding, but by way of
excuse I said that I only consulted it when I was in doubt. Finally, I
reasoned that if I fled I should be shewing fear, and thus confessing my
guilt, for an innocent man, feeling no remorse, cannot reasonably be
afraid of anything.

"If secrecy," said I, "is of the essence of the Court, you cannot
possibly judge, after my escape, whether I have done so rightly or
wrongly. The same reasons, which, according to your excellence, bid me
go, would forbid my return. Must I then say good-bye for ever to my
country, and all that is dear to me?" As a last resource he tried to
persuade me to pass the following day and night, at least, at the palace.
I am still ashamed of having refused the worthy old man to whom I owed so
much this favour; for the palace of a noble is sacred to the police who
dare not cross its threshold without a special order from the Tribunal,
which is practically never given; by yielding to his request I should
have avoided a grievous misfortune, and spared the worthy old man some
acute grief.

But what an age it is since we first met, and how great a change it
has wrought in both of us!
if there had been as great a one on my face, it would be either very
handsome or very ugly. For God's sake, when we meet, let us design
one day to remember old stories in, to ask one another by what degrees our
friendship grew to this height 'tis at. In earnest, I am lost sometimes
in thinking of it, and though I can never repent of the share you
have in my heart, I know not whether I gave it you willingly or not
at first.I embraced him affectionately, and went away, but his prediction was
verified, for I never saw him again; he died eleven years afterwards. I
found myself in the street without feeling the slightest fear, but I was
in a good deal of trouble about my debts. I had not the heart to go to
Muran to take away from M. Bonithan's present unreadiness; and had,
therefore, a command given me for conferring the commission prepared for
him upon another, who, upon examination, at the same time with Mr. Bonithan,
was found better qualified for it.
Wait,
I will make music for thee!

And I cannot write, either? Let it be, then, on thy head!" Whimpering
and writhing beneath the blows accompanying these words, the wise man
of Bagdad staggered toward the door and vanished from sight.At my "yes, I am Casanova,"
he told me to rise, to put on my clothes, to give him all the papers and
manuscripts in my possession, and to follow him.

"On whose authority do you order me to do this?"

"By the authority of the Tribunal."