"Of course not," said Glennard, vexed at his blunder.

"There are George Sand's letters to Flaubert."

"Ah!" Glennard hesitated. "Was she--were they--?" He chafed at his own
ignorance of the sentimental by-paths of literature.

"If you want love-letters, perhaps some of the French eighteenth
century correspondences might suit you better--Mlle. Aisse or Madame de
Sabran--"

But Glennard insisted. "I want something modern--English or American. I
want to look something up," he lamely concluded.

The librarian could only suggest George Eliot.

"Well, give me some of the French things, then--and I'll have Merimee's
letters. Stay you imperfect Speakers, tell me more:

By Sinells death, I know I am Thane of Glamis, But how, of Cawdor?
the Thane of Cawdor liues A prosperous Gentleman: And to be King,
Stands not within the prospect of beleefe, No more then to be
Cawdor.

Say from whence You owe this strange Intelligence, or why Vpon this blasted
Heath you stop our way With such Prophetique greeting?
Speake, I charge you.

Witches vanish.
Banq. The Earth hath bubbles, as the Water ha's, And these are of
them: whither are they vanish'd?He saw himself
sinking from depth to depth of sentimental cowardice in his reluctance
to renounce his hold on her; and it filled him with self-disgust to
think that the highest feeling of which he supposed himself capable was
blent with such base elements.

His awakening was hardly cheered by the sight of her writing. He tore
her note open and took in the few lines--she seldom exceeded the first
page--with the lucidity of apprehension that is the forerunner of evil.

"My aunt sails on Saturday and I must give her my answer the day after
to-morrow. Please don't come till then--I want to think the question
over by myself. I know I ought to go. Won't you help me to be
reasonable?"

It was settled, then. Well, he would be reasonable; he wouldn't stand
in her way; he would let her go. For two years he had been living some
other, luckier man's life; the time had come when he must drop back into
his own. He no longer tried to look ahead, to grope his way through
the endless labyrinth of his material difficulties; a sense of dull
resignation closed in on him like a fog.

"Hullo, Glennard!" a voice said, as an electric-car, late that
afternoon, dropped him at an uptown corner.

He looked up and met the interrogative smile of Barton Flamel, who
stood on the curbstone watching the retreating car with the eye of a man
philosophic enough to remember that it will be followed by another.

Glennard felt his usual impulse of pleasure at meeting Flamel; but
it was not in this case curtailed by the reaction of contempt that
habitually succeeded it. Probably even the few men who had known Flamel
since his youth could have given no good reason for the vague mistrust
that he inspired. Some people are judged by their actions, others by
their ideas; and perhaps the shortest way of defining Flamel is to say
that his well-known leniency of view was vaguely divined to include
himself. Simple minds may have resented the discovery that his opinions
were based on his perceptions; but there was certainly no more definite
charge against him than that implied in the doubt as to how he would
behave in an emergency, and his company was looked upon as one of those
mildly unwholesome dissipations to which the prudent may occasionally
yield. It now offered itself to Glennard as an easy escape from the
obsession of moral problems, which somehow could no more be worn in
Flamel's presence than a surplice in the street.

"Where are you going? To the club?" Flamel asked; adding, as the younger
man assented, "Why not come to my studio instead? You'll see one bore
instead of twenty."

The apartment which Flamel described as his studio showed, as its one
claim to the designation, a perennially empty easel; the rest of its
space being filled with the evidences of a comprehensive dilettanteism.
Against this background, which seemed the visible expression of its
owner's intellectual tolerance, rows of fine books detached themselves
with a prominence, showing them to be Flamel's chief care.

Glennard glanced with the eye of untrained curiosity at the lines of
warm-toned morocco, while his host busied himself with the uncorking of
Apollinaris.

"You've got a splendid lot of books," he said.

"They're fairly decent," the other assented, in the curt tone of the
collector who will not talk of his passion for fear of talking of
nothing else; then, as Glennard, his hands in his pockets, began to
stroll perfunctorily down the long line of bookcases--"Some men," Flamel
irresistibly added, "think of books merely as tools, others as tooling.
I'm between the two; there are days when I use them as scenery, other
days when I want them as society; so that, as you see, my library
represents a makeshift compromise between looks and brains, and the
collectors look down on me almost as much as the students."

Glennard, without answering, was mechanically taking one book after
another from the shelves. His hands slipped curiously over the smooth
covers and the noiseless subsidence of opening pages. Suddenly he came
on a thin volume of faded manuscript.

"What's this?" he asked, with a listless sense of wonder.

"Ah, you're at my manuscript shelf. I've been going in for that sort of
thing lately." Flamel came up and looked over his shoulders. "That's a
bit of Stendhal--one of the Italian stories--and here are some letters
of Balzac to Madame Commanville."

Glennard took the book with sudden eagerness. "Who was Madame
Commanville?"

"His sister." He was conscious that Flamel was looking at him with the
smile that was like an interrogation point. "I didn't know you cared for
this kind of thing."

"I don't--at least I've never had the chance. Have you many collections
of letters?"

"Lord, no--very few. I'm just beginning, and most of the interesting
ones are out of my reach. Here's a queer little collection, though--the
rarest thing I've got--half a dozen of Shelley's letters to Harriet
Westbrook. I had a devil of a time getting them--a lot of collectors
were after them."

Glennard, taking the volume from his hand, glanced with a kind of
repugnance at the interleaving of yellow cris-crossed sheets. "She was
the one who drowned herself, wasn't she?"

Flamel nodded. "I suppose that little episode adds about fifty per cent.
to their value," he said, meditatively.

Glennard laid the book down. He wondered why he had joined Flamel.
He was in no humor to be amused by the older man's talk, and a
recrudescence of personal misery rose about him like an icy tide.

"I believe I must take myself off," he said. "I'd forgotten an
engagement."

He turned to go; but almost at the same moment he was conscious of a
duality of intention wherein his apparent wish to leave revealed itself
as a last effort of the will against the overmastering desire to stay
and unbosom himself to Flamel.

The older man, as though divining the conflict, laid a detaining
pressure on his arm.

"Won't the engagement keep? Sit down and try one of these cigars. I
don't often have the luck of seeing you here."

"I'm rather driven just now," said Glennard, vaguely. He found himself
seated again, and Flamel had pushed to his side a low stand holding a
bottle of Apollinaris and a decanter of cognac.

Flamel, thrown back in his capacious arm-chair, surveyed him through
a cloud of smoke with the comfortable tolerance of the man to whom no
inconsistencies need be explained. Connivance was implicit in the air.
It was the kind of atmosphere in which the outrageous loses its edge.
Glennard felt a gradual relaxing of his nerves.

"I suppose one has to pay a lot for letters like that?" he heard himself
asking, with a glance in the direction of the volume he had laid aside.

"Oh, so-do--depends on circumstances." Flamel viewed him thoughtfully.
"Are you thinking of collecting?"

Glennard laughed. "Lord, no. The other way round."

"Selling?"

"Oh, I hardly know. I was thinking of a poor chap--"

Flamel filled the pause with a nod of interest.

"A poor chap I used to know--who died--he died last year--and who left
me a lot of letters, letters he thought a great deal of--he was fond
of me and left 'em to me outright, with the idea, I suppose, that
they might benefit me somehow--I don't know--I'm not much up on such
things--" he reached his hand to the tall glass his host had filled.

"A collection of autograph letters, eh? Any big names?"

"Oh, only one name. They're all letters written to him--by one person,
you understand; a woman, in fact--"

"Oh, a woman," said Flamel, negligently.

Glennard was nettled by his obvious loss of interest. "I rather think
they'd attract a good deal of notice if they were published."

Flamel still looked uninterested. "Love-letters, I suppose?"

"Oh, just--the letters a woman would write to a man she knew well. They
were tremendous friends, he and she."

"And she wrote a clever letter?"

"Clever? It was Margaret Aubyn."

A great silence filled the room. It seemed to Glennard that the words
had burst from him as blood gushes from a wound.

"Great Scott!" said Flamel, sitting up. "A collection of Margaret
Aubyn's letters? Did you say YOU had them?"

"They were left me--by my friend."

"I see. Was he--well, no matter. You're to be congratulated, at any
rate. What are you going to do with them?"

Glennard stood up with a sense of weariness in all his bones. "Oh, I
don't know. I haven't thought much about it. I just happened to see that
some fellow was writing her life--"

"Joslin; yes. You didn't think of giving them to him?"

Glennard had lounged across the room and stood staring up at a bronze
Bacchus who drooped his garlanded head above the pediment of an Italian
cabinet. "What ought I to do? You're just the fellow to advise me." He
felt the blood in his cheek as he spoke.

Flamel sat with meditative eye. "What do you WANT to do with them?" he
asked.

"I want to publish them," said Glennard, swinging round with sudden
energy--"If I can--"

"If you can? They're yours, you say?"

"They're mine fast enough. There's no one to prevent--I mean there are
no restrictions--" he was arrested by the sense that these accumulated
proofs of impunity might precisely stand as the strongest check on his
action.

"And Mrs. Aubyn had no family, I believe?"

"No."

"Then I don't see who's to interfere," said Flamel, studying his
cigar-tip.

Glennard had turned his unseeing stare on an ecstatic Saint Catherine
framed in tarnished gilding.

"It's just this way," he began again, with an effort. "When letters are
as personal as--as these of my friend's.... Well, I don't mind telling
you that the cash would make a heap of difference to me; such a lot that
it rather obscures my judgment--the fact is if I could lay my hand on a
few thousands now I could get into a big thing, and without appreciable
risk; and I'd like to know whether you think I'd be justified--under the
circumstances...." He paused, with a dry throat. It seemed to him at the
moment that it would be impossible for him ever to sink lower in his own
estimation. He was in truth less ashamed of weighing the temptation than
of submitting his scruples to a man like Flamel, and affecting to appeal
to sentiments of delicacy on the absence of which he had consciously
reckoned. But he had reached a point where each word seemed to compel
another, as each wave in a stream is forced forward by the pressure
behind it; and before Flamel could speak he had faltered out--"You don't
think people could say... could criticise the man...."

"But the man's dead, isn't he?"

"He's dead--yes; but can I assume the responsibility without--"

Flamel hesitated; and almost immediately Glennard's scruples gave way
to irritation. Lenox. Heere my good Lord.
What is't that moues your Highnesse?

Macb. Which of you haue done this?
Lords. What, my good Lord?
Macb. Thou canst not say I did it: neuer shake Thy goary lockes at
me

Rosse.

Gentlemen rise, his Highnesse is not well
Lady.

Sit worthy Friends: my Lord is often thus, And hath beene from his
youth. Pray you keepe Seat, The fit is momentary, vpon a thought He will
againe be well.

If much you note him You shall offend him, and extend his Passion, Feed,
and regard him not. Are you a man?
Macb. I, and a bold one, that dare looke on that Which might appall the
Diuell
La. O proper stuffe:

This is the very painting of your feare:

This is the Ayre-drawne-Dagger which you said Led you to Duncan.

O, these flawes and starts (Impostors to true feare) would well become
A womans story, at a Winters fire Authoriz'd by her Grandam: shame
it selfe, Why do you make such faces?

When all's done You looke but on a stoole
Macb. Prythee see there:
Behold, looke, loe, how say you:
Why what care I, if thou canst nod, speake too.
If Charnell houses, and our Graues must send Those that we bury,
backe; our Monuments Shall be the Mawes of Kytes 
La.

What? quite vnmann'd in folly

Macb. If I stand heere, I saw him 
La.

Fie for shame

Macb. Blood hath bene shed ere now, i'th' olden time Ere humane Statute
purg'd the gentle Weale:

I, and since too, Murthers haue bene perform'd Too terrible for the
eare.

The times has bene, That when the Braines were out, the man would
dye, And there an end: But now they rise againe With twenty mortall
murthers on their crownes, And push vs from our stooles.

This is more strange Then such a murther is
La. My worthy Lord Your Noble Friends do lacke you
Macb. I do forget:

Do not muse at me my most worthy Friends, I haue a strange infirmity, which
is nothing To those that know me.

Come, loue and health to all, Then Ile sit downe: Giue me some Wine,
fill full:

Enter Ghost.

I drinke to th' generall ioy o'th' whole Table, And to our deere
Friend Banquo, whom we misse:
Would he were heere: to all, and him we thirst, And all to all
Lords.

Our duties, and the pledge
Mac. Auant, & quit my sight, let the earth hide thee:
Thy bones are marrowlesse, thy blood is cold:
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes Which thou dost glare with
La. Thinke of this good Peeres But as a thing of Custome: 'Tis no other,
Onely it spoyles the pleasure of the time 
Macb.

What man dare, I dare:
Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare, The arm'd Rhinoceros, or
th' Hircan Tiger, Take any shape but that, and my firme Nerues
Shall neuer tremble.

Or be aliue againe, And dare me to the Desart with thy Sword:
If trembling I inhabit then, protest mee The Baby of a Girle.

Hence horrible shadow, Vnreall mock'ry hence. Why so, being gone I am a
man againe: pray you sit still

La.

You haue displac'd the mirth, Broke the good meeting, with most
admir'd disorder
Macb. Can such things be, And ouercome vs like a Summers Clowd, Without
our speciall wonder? You make me strange Euen to the disposition that I
owe, When now I thinke you can behold such sights, And keepe the
naturall Rubie of your Cheekes, When mine is blanch'd with feare
Rosse. What sights, my Lord?
La. I pray you speake not: he growes worse & worse Question enrages him:
at once, goodnight.
Stand not vpon the order of your going, But go at once
Len. Good night, and better health Attend his Maiesty
La. A kinde goodnight to all.

Exit Lords.

Macb. It will haue blood they say:
Blood will haue Blood:
Stones haue beene knowne to moue, & Trees to speake:
Augures, and vnderstood Relations, haue By Maggot Pyes, & Choughes, &
Rookes brought forth The secret'st man of Blood. What is the night?
La. Almost at oddes with morning, which is which
Macb. How say'st thou that Macduff denies his person At our great
bidding 
La.

Did you send to him Sir?
Macb. I heare it by the way: But I will send:
There's not a one of them but in his house I keepe a Seruant Feed.

I will to morrow (And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.

More shall they speake: for now I am bent to know By the worst meanes,
the worst, for mine owne good, All causes shall giue way. I am in
blood Stept in so farre, that should I wade no more, Returning
were as tedious as go ore:
Strange things I haue in head, that will to hand, Which must be
acted, ere they may be scand 
La.

You lacke the season of all Natures, sleepe 
Macb.

Come, wee'l to sleepe: My strange & self-abuse Is the initiate
feare, that wants hard vse:
We are yet but yong indeed.

Exeunt.
Scena Quinta.

Thunder. Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecat.
1. Why how now Hecat, you looke angerly?
Hec. Haue I not reason (Beldams) as you are?
Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare To Trade, and Trafficke with
Macbeth, In Riddles, and Affaires of death; And I the Mistris of
your Charmes, The close contriuer of all harmes, Was neuer call'd
to beare my part, Or shew the glory of our Art?She answered without show of surprise. "He left just now. His yacht is
down at Laurel Bay and he borrowed a trap of the Dreshams to drive over
here."

Glennard made no comment, and she went on, leaning her head back against
the cushions of her bamboo-seat, "He wants us to go for a sail with him
next Sunday."

Glennard meditatively stirred his tea. He was trying to think of the
most natural and unartificial thing to say, and his voice seemed to come
from the outside, as though he were speaking behind a marionette. "Do
you want to?"

"Just as you please," she said, compliantly. No affectation of
indifference could have been as baffling as her compliance. Glennard, of
late, was beginning to feel that the surface which, a year ago, he
had taken for a sheet of clear glass, might, after all, be a mirror
reflecting merely his own conception of what lay behind it.

"Do you like Flamel?" he suddenly asked; to which, still engaged with
her tea, she returned the feminine answer--"I thought you did."

"I do, of course," he agreed, vexed at his own incorrigible tendency to
magnify Flamel's importance by hovering about the topic. "A sail would
be rather jolly; let's go."

She made no reply and he drew forth the rolled-up evening papers which
he had thrust into his pocket on leaving the train. As he smoothed them
out his own countenance seemed to undergo the same process. He ran his
eye down the list of stocks and Flamel's importunate personality receded
behind the rows of figures pushing forward into notice like so many
bearers of good news. Glennard's investments were flowering like his
garden: the dryest shares blossomed into dividends, and a golden harvest
awaited his sickle.

He glanced at his wife with the tranquil air of the man who digests
good luck as naturally as the dry ground absorbs a shower. "Things are
looking uncommonly well. I believe we shall be able to go to town for
two or three months next winter if we can find something cheap."

She smiled luxuriously: it was pleasant to be able to say, with an air
of balancing relative advantages, "Really, on the baby's account I shall
be almost sorry; but if we do go, there's Kate Erskine's house... she'll
let us have it for almost nothing...."

"Well, write her about it," he recommended, his eyes travelling on
in search of the weather report. He had turned to the wrong page; and
suddenly a line of black characters leapt out at him as from an ambush.

"'Margaret Aubyn's Letters.' Two volumes. Out to-day. First edition of
five thousand sold out before leaving the press. Second edition ready
next week. THE BOOK OF THE YEAR...."

He looked up stupidly. His wife still sat with her head thrown back,
her pure profile detached against the cushions. She was smiling a little
over the prospect his last words had opened. Behind her head shivers
of sun and shade ran across the striped awning. A row of maples and
a privet hedge hid their neighbor's gables, giving them undivided
possession of their leafy half-acre; and life, a moment before, had
been like their plot of ground, shut off, hedged in from importunities,
impenetrably his and hers. Now it seemed to him that every maple-leaf,
every privet-bud, was a relentless human gaze, pressing close upon their
privacy. It was as though they sat in a brightly lit room, uncurtained
from a darkness full of hostile watchers.... His wife still smiled; and
her unconsciousness of danger seemed, in some horrible way, to put her
beyond the reach of rescue....

He had not known that it would be like this. After the first odious
weeks, spent in preparing the letters for publication, in submitting
them to Flamel, and in negotiating with the publishers, the transaction
had dropped out of his consciousness into that unvisited limbo to which
we relegate the deeds we would rather not have done but have no notion
of undoing. From the moment he had obtained Miss Trent's promise not
to sail with her aunt he had tried to imagine himself irrevocably
committed. After that, he argued, his first duty was to her--she had
become his conscience. The sum obtained from the publishers by Flamel's
adroit manipulations and opportunely transferred to Dinslow's successful
venture, already yielded a return which, combined with Glennard's
professional earnings, took the edge of compulsion from their way of
living, making it appear the expression of a graceful preference for
simplicity. It was the mitigated poverty which can subscribe to a review
or two and have a few flowers on the dinner-table. And already in
a small way Glennard was beginning to feel the magnetic quality of
prosperity. Clients who had passed his door in the hungry days sought
it out now that it bore the name of a successful man. It was understood
that a small inheritance, cleverly invested, was the source of his
fortune; and there was a feeling that a man who could do so well for
himself was likely to know how to turn over other people's money.

But it was in the more intimate reward of his wife's happiness that
Glennard tasted the full flavor of success. Coming out of conditions so
narrow that those he offered her seemed spacious, she fitted into her
new life without any of those manifest efforts at adjustment that are
as sore to a husband's pride as the critical rearrangement of the bridal
furniture. She had given him, instead, the delicate pleasure of watching
her expand like a sea-creature restored to its element, stretching out
the atrophied tentacles of girlish vanity and enjoyment to the rising
tide of opportunity. And somehow--in the windowless inner cell of his
consciousness where self-criticism cowered--Glennard's course seemed
justified by its merely material success. How could such a crop of
innocent blessedness have sprung from tainted soil?

