'In the breakfast-room, perhaps,' said the young man. And
passing on, he made his way thither, while Mr. Falkirk stood
at the hall door. No, Miss Kennedy was not in the breakfast-
room; and instead of sitting down Mr. Rollo went out by
another way, picking up a roll from the table as he passed,
and wrapping it in a napkin. He took a straight course to the
woods, over the grass, where no uninstructed eye could see
that the dew had been brushed away by a lighter foot than his.
But if lighter, hardly so swift as the springy stride and leap
which carried him over yards of the rough way at a bound, and
cleared obstacles that would have hindered, at least slightly,
most other people. The mountain was quickly won in this style,
and Rollo gained a high ledge where the ground lay more level.
He went deliberately here, and used a pair of eyes as quick as
might match the feet, though not to notice how the dew
sparkled on the moss or how the colours changed in the valley.
He was far above the Mountain House, on the wild hillside. Juan
Jose de Vertiz, who had hoped to drive the ground. Until day
13 there was no remarkable thing that expressly This day
so the river rose, driven by seawater turbulent wind very
fresh, which flooded the entire new population began in the
S part of the growing water three quarters on the ground: so
that people jumped on ranches to escape, which took no more
than half length of time, or did harm to the genera and
provisions; have not been unloaded. Caused by the commander
felt that it was necessary for mudarla of the N that had high
ground and could not get to where rising: what is egecutó
immediately, and stay working on a fort in box of 55 fathoms, with
its provisions to cover the gap, people and equipment, any invasion
of the Indians who attempt, in which are mounted some small guns.

These are the news you have of these new discoveries to
the present. VIII. _Diario which begins on 21 September 1778,
which gives news of the expedition and detachment, which by
order of Exmo. Mr. Virey, Juan Jose de Vertiz, marched
to the camp of the enemy, recognizing up to Salinas,
who are campaigning in the barren Sud_. Commanded the expedition
that Maestre de Campo D. Manuel de Pinazo and escorting Captain
D.

Juan de Serdens, with a detachment, consisting of a lieutenant,
a Alferez, three sergeants, three corporals, one drum and
65 dragons. The carts that have led to salt loading were 580
and 20 of the luggage, wheelbarrows and carts: the picadors
of those, 600 soldiers of the garrison, 400 blandeguez, militia
and dragoons, and carpenters, herders, stakeholders and aggregates
passed 300. The horse is comprised of 2600, and 12,000
oxen boyada happening. Since the aforementioned 21 day of
September until 4 October, were all competing at the border
of Lujan, 20 miles distant from the capital, towards the N.
October 4 that day were launched for those Salinas, 250 wagons,
and went to sleep at parag Peach, 5 miles distant from the
border of Lujan, O, where there are gaps medium and arrive
tonight carts. Day 5. At dawn, as usual, and was played the
same course to the left, more or less, to stop at the parag
Salted, 6 miles distant from the background, where they arrived
and 415 carts: and this stop is very little fresh water
to people.
Then she rose demurely to her
feet.

'I thank you, sir, for arousing me. Is Mr. Falkirk here?'

'No--I am alone. But you are at a distance from home. Can you
go back without some refreshment?' The words and the speaker
were quiet enough, but Wych Hazel's colour stirred uneasily.

'Yes. Don't let me detain you, sir,' she said, putting herself
in quick motion across the moss. He met her on the other side
of a big boulder and stayed her, though with the quietest
manner of interference.

'I beg your pardon--but if you wish to go home--'

'Yes,' she answered, with a half laugh, glancing up at the
sun; 'I know. I am only going round this way.'

He stayed her still. 'I can guide you this way,' he said;
'but--it is not the way to the House.'

Another glance at the sun. 'Which is the way?'

'I will show it to you. Do you care most for speed or smooth
going? You are tired?'

Wych Hazel knit her brows into the most abortive attempt at a
frown. What right had he to suppose that she was tired!

'If you will just show me the way, sir--the shortest; I mean,
point out the direction.'

He was standing and waiting her pleasure with contented
gravity. 'The direction is not to be followed in a straight
line,' said he. 'I can only show you by going before. Is that
your meaning?'

'I should like to get home the shortest way,' said she
hesitating.

He went on without more words, and maintaining the polished
gravity of his first address; but Wych Hazel had reason to
remember her walk of that morning. It was a shorter way than
he had come, that by which her conductor took her, and in
parts easy enough; but in other parts requiring his skill as
well as hers to get her over them. He said not a word further;
he served her in silence: the vexatious thing was, that he was
able to serve her so much. Many a time she had to accept his
hand to get past a rude place; often both hands were needed to
swing her over a watercourse or leap her down from a rock. She
was agile and light of foot; she did what woman could; it was
only by sheer necessity that she yielded the mortifying tacit
confession to man's superior strength, and gave so often
opportunity to a pair of good eyes to see what she was like
near at hand. Wych Hazel's own eyes made few discoveries. She
could _feel_ every now and then that her conductor's hand and
foot were as firm and reliable as the mountain itself. This
course of travelling brought them, however, soon to the level
of the Mountain House and to plain going. There Mr. Rollo fell
behind, allowing the young lady to take her own pace in
crossing the lawn and the hall, only attending her like her
shadow to the foot of the stairs. With the first reaching of
level ground, he had had a full look and gesture of
acknowledgment; what became of him afterwards Miss Hazel
seemed not to know. _He_ knew that she ran up the first flight
of stairs, and that once out of sight her steps drooped
instantly.

'So!' said Mr. Kingsland, advancing. 'Really! Rollo my dear
fellow, how are we to understand this?'

'Give us an introduction after lunch, will you?' said another.

'But, Mr. Rollo, how extraordinary!' said one of the dowagers.

'Madame!' said Mr. Rollo, waiting upon the last speaker, hat
in hand.

'Let him alone, my dear lady!' said Mr. Kingsland; 'he's got
to prepare for coffee and pistols with Mr. Falkirk. And coffee
I fancy he's ready for--eh, Dane? Go get your breakfast, and
I'll break matters gently to the guardian.'

'Will you do that, my dear fellow?'

'Can you doubt me?'

'I wish you would, for I am hungry,' said Dane, drawing his
hand over his face. 'Mr. Falkirk is going off toward the
cataract--just run after him and tell him that his ward is come
home;--has he had breakfast?'

'Run, I guess I--won't' said Mr. Kingsland. 'But to be the
first bearer of _welcome_ news'--And Mr. Falkirk roaming among
trees and rocks was presently accosted by two gentlemen.

'Allow me, my dear sir, to congratulate you,' said the
foremost. 'Miss Kennedy is safe. Our friend Rollo has with his
usual sagacity gone straight to the mark, and without a
moment's thought of his own breakfast or strength has found
the young lady and followed her home.'

'She is at home, then?' said Mr. Falkirk.

'She is at home, sir; the Mountain House is made radiant by
her presence. And now, permit me--Dr. Maryland,--son of your
friend at Chickaree. Only your neighbour upon Christian
principles here, sir, but bona fide neighbour at Chickaree,
and most anxious to be acquainted with the fair owner
thereof.'

Too honest-hearted to feel the inuendo of Mr. Kingsland's last
words, their undeniable truth flushed Dr. Maryland somewhat as
he shook hands with Mr. Falkirk. He was a well looking young
man, with a clear blue eye which said the world's
sophistications would find no Parley the porter to admit them;
and Mr. Falkirk would certainly have begun to like his young
neighbour on the spot, if he had not been on a sudden summoned
to the house.

Miss Hazel, speeding up-stairs in the manner before related,
reached her room safely; but there proceeding to answer or
evade Mrs. Saddler's questions, also to indulge herself in
sundry musings, did not indeed forget to despatch a peremptory
order for breakfast; but as that refreshment was somewhat
delayed, the young lady in an impatient fit of time-saving
began to change her dress, and fainted away charmingly during
the process. At which moment the maid and breakfast entered
the room, and the former promptly set down her tray, and ran
off to summon the only doctor then at the Mountain House.

Little did Dr. Maryland guess the meaning of those mysterious
words--'a lady wants you!' Still less, what lady. And as by the
time he reached the room, Miss Hazel opened her eyes for his
express benefit, the doctor stopped short in the middle of the
room, his ideas more unsettled than ever. But Mr. Falkirk, who
had accompanied the doctor, though not expecting to find their
paths all the way identical, pressed forward with a face of
great concern.

'Miss Hazel!--is it you? What is the matter?'

'Do I look like somebody else, sir?'

Like nobody else! thought Dr. Maryland; while, learning the
whole of Mrs. Saddler's explanations from the first five
words, he went on to apply such remedies as were strongest and
nearest at hand. In a medical point of view it was not perhaps
needful that he should hold the coffee-cup himself all the
time, but if this were not really his 'first case,' it bid
fair to be so marked in his memory. Perhaps he forgot the
coffee-cup, till Mr. Falkirk gently relieved him of it with a
word of dismission, and the doctor modestly withdrew; then
sending Mrs. Saddler for some bottled ale, Mr. Falkirk went
on, 'Wych, where have you been?'

'Following the steps of my great predecessor, King Alfred,
sir.'

'In what line?'

'Retiring from the enemy, sir, and being obliged to meet the
Dane'--said Miss Hazel, innocently closing her eyes.

'Where?' said Mr. Falkirk, shortly.

'I don't know, sir. In some of the wild places favoured by
such outlaws. Don't you know, he has just come over the sea?'

There was a pause of some seconds.

Since it also expects the company to better honor to appear.
Your name, your position and draw your wealth. Because you
need to know, finally, yes it's what's for almost all only have
two to satisfy the vanity and to achieve benefits.

Of the case itself pervaded giebt's barely a dozen to a
million! "" How?

That you say, Mr. Kollund? "Imgjor came out in strong
disappointment." Ah! That pushes me deep down.
Falkirk smiled--a little, passing his hand very lightly
over the brow which did look certainly as if it had belonged
to a little girl not very long ago; but he said no more,
except to advise the young lady to eat a good breakfast.

Not to be conspicuous, however, from this day was beyond
little Miss Hazel's power, to whatever degree it might have
been within her wish. The house was at this time not yet
filled; but of all its indwellers, old and young, male and
female, higher and lower in the scale of society, every eye
and tongue was at her service; so far as being occupied with
her made it so. Every hand was at her service more literally.
Did not the very serving-men at table watch her eye? Was not
he the best fellow who could recommend the hottest omelet and
bring the freshest cakes to her hand? The young heiress, the
young mistress of fabulous acres, and 'such a beautiful old
place;' the new beauty, who bid fair to bewitch all the world
with hand and foot and gypsy eyes,--nay, the current all set
one way. Even old dowagers looked to praise, and even their
daughters to admire; while of the men, all were at her feet.
Attentions, civil, kind, and recommendatory, showered on Miss
Hazel from all sides. Would that little head stand it, with
its wayward curls and some slight indication of waywardness
within? How would it keep its position over such a crowd of
servants self-made in her honour? Some of them were very
devoted servants indeed, and seemed willing to proclaim their
devotion. Among these was Mr. Kingsland, who constituted
himself her right-hand man in general; but Dr. Maryland was
not far off, if less presuming. S observed in the latitude of
36 degrees 45 minutes: the spot of the day consists of washed
and estuaries.

For these were two or three spans of water, and we took three
hours this way: the pastures are grasses, sedges and
espartillos. Day 16.How will she bear it?'

Mr. Falkirk was standing near by.

'She wants a better guardian,' the lady went on whispering.

'I wish she had a mother,' he said.

'Or a husband!'

Mr. Falkirk was silent; then he said, 'It is too soon for
that.'

Can I be your lawyer? "" I gave my word, Herr Doktor! Even if
you are right - it is perhaps possible - may, I can not
break it. "" Certainly! They are even obliged to such a swindler
not to pave the way!

It must be mentioned that an exception, in some sort, to all
this adulation, was furnished by the friend of Miss Hazel's
morning walk. Mr. Rollo, if the truth must be told, seemed to
live more for his own pleasure than anybody else's. Why he had
taken that morning's scramble unless on motives of unwonted
benevolence, remained known only to himself. Since then he had
not exerted himself in her or anybody's service. Pleasant and
gay he was when anybody saw him; but nobody's servant. By day
Mr. Rollo roamed the woods, for he was said to be a great
hunter--or he lay on the grass in the shade with a book--or he
found out for himself some delectable place or pleasure
unknown previously to others, though as soon as known sure to
be approved and adopted; and at evening the rich scents of his
cigar floated in the air where the moonlight lay brightest or
shadows played daintiest. But he did not seem to share the
universal attraction towards the daintiest thing of all at the
Mountain. He saw her, certainly; he was sometimes seen looking
at her; but then he would leave the place where her presence
held everybody, and the perfume of his cigar would come as
aforesaid; or the distant notes of a song said that Mr. What
is happiness? Yes, what was happiness? Compulsory exercise
led initially guilt. But duty was also a flexible concept.
With duty coupled Selbstentäußerung strong - and they
brought fights, but did not happy!
The more notable this
was, because Rollo was a pet of the world himself; one of
those whom every society welcomes, and who for that very
reason perhaps are a little nonchalant towards society.

