Produced by Jerry Wann and Dianne Bean


THE VALLEY OF THE MOON

By Jack London


BOOK I


CHAPTER 1

"You hear me, Saxon? Come on along. What if it is the Bricklayers? I'll
have gentlemen friends there, and so'll you. The Al Vista band'll be
along, an' you know it plays heavenly. An' you just love dancin'---"

Twenty feet away, a stout, elderly woman interrupted the girl's
persuasions. The elderly woman's back was turned, and the back-loose,
bulging, and misshapen--began a convulsive heaving.

"Gawd!" she cried out. "O Gawd!"

She flung wild glances, like those of an entrapped animal, up and down
the big whitewashed room that panted with heat and that was thickly
humid with the steam that sizzled from the damp cloth under the irons of
the many ironers. From the girls and women near her, all swinging irons
steadily but at high pace, came quick glances, and labor efficiency
suffered to the extent of a score of suspended or inadequate movements.
The elderly woman's cry had caused a tremor of money-loss to pass among
the piece-work ironers of fancy starch.

She gripped herself and her iron with a visible effort, and dabbed
futilely at the frail, frilled garment on the board under her hand.

"I thought she'd got'em again--didn't you?" the girl said.

"It's a shame, a women of her age, and... condition," Saxon answered,
as she frilled a lace ruffle with a hot fluting-iron. Her movements were
delicate, safe, and swift, and though her face was wan with fatigue and
exhausting heat, there was no slackening in her pace.

"An' her with seven, an' two of 'em in reform school," the girl at the
next board sniffed sympathetic agreement. "But you just got to come
to Weasel Park to-morrow, Saxon. The Bricklayers' is always
lively--tugs-of-war, fat-man races, real Irish jiggin', an'... an'
everything. An' The floor of the pavilion's swell."

But the elderly woman brought another interruption. She dropped her iron
on the shirtwaist, clutched at the board, fumbled it, caved in at the
knees and hips, and like a half-empty sack collapsed on the floor, her
long shriek rising in the pent room to the acrid smell of scorching
cloth. The women at the boards near to her scrambled, first, to the hot
iron to save the cloth, and then to her, while the forewoman hurried
belligerently down the aisle. The women farther away continued
unsteadily at their work, losing movements to the extent of a minute's
set-back to the totality of the efficiency of the fancy-starch room.

"Enough to kill a dog," the girl muttered, thumping her iron down on its
rest with reckless determination. "Workin' girls' life ain't what it's
cracked up. Me to quit--that's what I'm comin' to."

"Mary!" Saxon uttered the other's name with a reproach so profound that
she was compelled to rest her own iron for emphasis and so lose a dozen
movements.

Mary flashed a half-frightened look across.

"I didn't mean it, Saxon," she whimpered. "Honest, I didn't. I wouldn't
never go that way. But I leave it to you, if a day like this don't get
on anybody's nerves. Listen to that!"

The stricken woman, on her back, drumming her heels on the floor, was
shrieking persistently and monotonously, like a mechanical siren. Two
women, clutching her under the arms, were dragging her down the aisle.
She drummed and shrieked the length of it. The door opened, and a vast,
muffled roar of machinery burst in; and in the roar of it the drumming
and the shrieking were drowned ere the door swung shut. Remained of the
episode only the scorch of cloth drifting ominously through the air.

"It's sickenin'," said Mary.

And thereafter, for a long time, the many irons rose and fell, the pace
of the room in no wise diminished; while the forewoman strode the
aisles with a threatening eye for incipient breakdown and hysteria.
Occasionally an ironer lost the stride for an instant, gasped or sighed,
then caught it up again with weary determination. The long summer day
waned, but not the heat, and under the raw flare of electric light the
work went on.

And what a marked specimen of the opposite style is a certain other book
I could mention in which these wild and grand scenes serve but as a
medium to advertise the author's fund of classic lore!

Can there be any doubt about the traits and outward signs of a noble
character, and is not the style of an author the manners of his
soul?

Is there a lyceum lecturer in the country who is above manoeuvring for
the applause of his audience? or a writer who is willing to make
himself of no account for the sake of what he has to say?

Even in the best there is something of the air and manners of a performer
on exhibition.

The newspaper, or magazine, or book is a sort of raised platform upon which
the advertiser advances before a gaping and expectant crowd. Truly,
how well he _handles_ his subject! He turns it over, and around, and
inside out, and top-side down. He tosses it about; he twirls it; he
takes it apart and puts it together again, and knows well beforehand
where the applause will come in.

Any reader, in taking up the antique authors, must be struck by the
contrast.

"In Aeschylus," says Landor, "there is no trickery, no trifling, no delay,
no exposition, no garrulity, no dogmatism, no declamation, no prosing, .
. . but the loud, clear challenge, the firm, unstealthy step, of an
erect, broad-breasted soldier."
On the whole, the old authors are better than the new. The real question
of literature is not simplified by culture or a multiplication of
books, as the conditions of life are always the same, and are not
made one whit easier by all the myriads of men and women who have
lived upon the globe.

The standing want is never for more skill, but for newer, fresher
power,--a more plentiful supply of arterial blood. The discoverer, or
the historian, or the man of science, may begin where his predecessor
left off, but the poet or any artist must go back for a fresh
start. With him it is always the first day of creation, and he must
begin at the stump or nowhere.

VIII BEFORE BEAUTY
I
Before genius is manliness, and before beauty is power. The Russian novelist
and poet, Turgenieff, scattered all through whose works you will
find unmistakable traits of greatness, makes one of his characters
say, speaking of beauty, "The old masters,--they never hunted after
it; it comes of itself into their compositions, God knows whence,
from heaven or elsewhere.

The whole world belonged to them, but we are unable to clasp its broad
spaces; our arms are too short."
>From the same depth of insight come these lines from "Leaves of
Grass," apropos of true poems:--
"They do not seek beauty--they are sought; Forever touching them,
or close upon them, follows beauty, longing, fain, love-sick."

The Roman was perhaps the first to separate beauty from use, and to
pursue it as ornament merely. He built his grand edifice,--its piers, its
vaults, its walls of brick and concrete,--and then gave it a marble
envelope copied from the Greek architecture.

The latter could be stripped away, as in many cases it was by the hand
of time, and leave the essentials of the structure nearly complete.
Not so with the Greek: he did not seek the beautiful, he was beauty;
his building had no ornament, it was all structure; in its beauty
was the flower of necessity, the charm of inborn fitness and
proportion.

In other words, "his art was structure refined into beautiful forms,
not beautiful forms superimposed upon structure," as with the Roman.

And it is in Greek mythology, is it not, that Beauty is represented
as riding upon the back of a lion?

as she assuredly always does in their poetry and art,--rides upon power,
or terror, or savage fate; not only rides upon, but is wedded and
incorporated with it; hence the athletic desire and refreshment
her coming imparts.

This is the invariable order of nature. Beauty without a rank material
basis enfeebles. The world is not thus made; man is not thus begotten
and nourished.

It comes to me there is something implied or understood when we
look upon a beautiful object, that has quite as much to do with the
impression made upon the mind as anything in the object itself;
perhaps more.

There is somehow an immense and undefined background of vast and
unconscionable energy, as of earthquakes, and ocean storms, and cleft
mountains, across which things of beauty play, and to which they
constantly defer; and when this background is wanting, as it is in
much current poetry, beauty sickens and dies, or at most has only
a feeble existence.

Nature does nothing merely for beauty; beauty follows as the inevitable
result; and the final impression of health and finish which her
works make upon the mind is owing as much to those things which are
not technically called beautiful as to those which are.

The former give identity to the latter. The one is to the other what
substance is to form, or bone to flesh. The beauty of nature includes
all that is called beautiful, as its flower; and all that is not called
beautiful, as its stalk and roots.

Indeed, when I go to the woods or the fields, or ascend to the hilltop,
I do not seem to be gazing upon beauty at all, but to be breathing it
like the air. I am not dazzled or astonished; I am in no hurry to
look lest it be gone. I would not have the litter and debris removed,
or the banks trimmed, or the ground painted. What I enjoy is commensurate
with the earth and sky itself. It clings to the rocks and trees; it is
kindred to the roughness and savagery; it rises from every tangle and
chasm; it perches on the dry oak- stubs with the hawks and buzzards;
the crows shed it from their wings and weave it into their nests
of coarse sticks; the fox barks it, the cattle low it, and every
mountain path leads to its haunts.

I am not a spectator of, but a participator in it. It is not an
adornment; its roots strike to the centre of the earth.

All true beauty in nature or in art is like the iridescent hue of
mother-of-pearl, which is intrinsic and necessary, being the result
of the arrangement of the particles,--the flowering of the mechanism
of the shell; or like the beauty of health which comes out of and
reaches back again to the bones and the digestion.

There is no grace like the grace of strength. What sheer muscular gripe
and power lie back of the firm, delicate notes of the great violinist!
"Wit," says Heine,--and the same thing is true of beauty,--"isolated, is
worthless.

It is only endurable when it rests on a solid basis."

In fact, beauty as a separate and distinct thing does not exist.
Neither can it be reached by any sorting or sifting or clarifying
process.

It is an experience of the mind, and must be preceded by certain
conditions, just as light is an experience of the eye, and sound of the
ear.

To attempt to manufacture beauty is as vain as to attempt to manufacture
truth; and to give it to us in poems or any form of art, without a
lion of some sort, a lion of truth or fitness or power, is to emasculate
it and destroy its volition.

But current poetry is, for the most part, an attempt to do this very thing,
to give us beauty without beauty's antecedents and foil.

The poets want to spare us the annoyance of the beast. Since beauty is
the chief attraction, why not have this part alone, pure and
unadulterated,--why not pluck the plumage from the bird, the flower
from its stalk, the moss from the rock, the shell from the shore,
the honey-bag from the bee, and thus have in brief what pleases us?

Hence, with rare exceptions, one feels, on opening the latest book
of poems, like exclaiming, Well, here is the beautiful at last
divested of everything else,--of truth, of power, of utility,-- and
one may add of beauty, too. It charms as color, or flowers, or jewels,
or perfume charms--and that is the end of it.

It is ever present to the true artist, in his attempt to report nature,
that every object as it stands in the circuit of cause and effect has
a history which involves its surroundings, and that the depth of
the interest which it awakens in us is in proportion as its integrity
in this respect is preserved. In nature we are prepared for any opulence
of color or of vegetation, or freak of form, or display of any kind,
because of the preponderance of the common, ever-present feature of the
earth. The foil is always at hand. In like manner in the master
poems we are never surfeited with mere beauty.

Woe to any artist who disengages Beauty from the wide background of
rudeness, darkness, and strength,--and disengages her from absolute
nature!

The mild and beneficent aspects of nature,-- what gulfs and abysses
of power underlie them!

The great shaggy, barbaric earth,-- yet the summing-up, the plenum,
of all we know or can know of beauty!

So the orbic poems of the world have a foundation as of the earth
itself, and are beautiful because they are something else first. Homer
chose for his groundwork War, clinching, tearing, tugging war; in
Dante, it is Hell; in Milton, Satan and the Fall; in Shakespeare,
it is the fierce Feudal world, with its towering and kingly
personalities; in Byron, it is Revolt and diabolic passion.

When we get to Tennyson, the lion is a good deal tamed, but he is
still there in the shape of the proud, haughty, and manly Norman,
and in many forms yet stimulates the mind.

The perception of cosmical beauty comes by a vital original process. It
is in some measure a creative act, and those works that rest upon it
make demands--perhaps extraordinary ones--upon the reader or the beholder.
We regard mere surface glitter, or mere verbal sweetness, in a mood
entirely passive, and with a pleasure entirely profitless. The beauty
of excellent stage scenery seems much more obvious and easy of apprehension
than the beauty of trees and hills themselves, inasmuch as the act
of association in the mind is much easier and cheaper than the act of
original perception.

Only the greatest works in any department afford any explanation of
this wonder we call nature, or aid the mind in arriving at correct
notions concerning it.

To copy here and there a line or a trait is no explanation; but to
translate nature into another language--to bridge it to us, to repeat
in some sort the act of creation itself-- is the crowning triumph of
poetic art.

II
After the critic has enumerated all the stock qualities of the
poet, as taste, fancy, melody, it remains to be said that unless there
is something in him that is _living identity,_ something analogous to
the growing, pushing, reproducing forces of nature, all the rest
in the end pass for but little.

This is perhaps what the German critic, Lessing, really means by
_action,_ for true poems are more like deeds, expressive of something
behind, more like acts of heroism or devotion, or like personal
character, than like thoughts or intellections.

All the master poets have in their work an interior, chemical, assimilative
property, a sort of gastric juice which dissolves thought and form,
and holds in vital fusion religions, times, races, and the theory
of their own construction, naming up with electric and defiant
power,--power without any admixture of resisting form, as in a
living organism.

There are in nature two types or forms, the cell and the crystal.
One means the organic, the other the inorganic; one means growth,
development, life; the other means reaction, solidification, rest. The
hint and model of all creative works is the cell; critical, reflective,
and philosophical works are nearer akin to the crystal; while there
is much good literature that is neither the one nor the other
distinctively, but which in a measure touches and includes both.

But crystallic beauty or cut and polished gems of thought, the
result of the reflex rather than the direct action of the mind, we
do not expect to find in the best poems, though they may be most
prized by specially intellectual persons.

In the immortal poems the solids are very few, or do not appear at
all as solids,--as lime and iron,--any more than they do in organic
nature, in the flesh of the peach or the apple.

The main thing in every living organism is the vital fluids: seven tenths
of man is water; and seven tenths of Shakespeare is passion, emotion,--fluid
humanity. Out of this arise his forms, as Venus arose out of the sea, and
as man is daily built up out of the liquids of the body. We cannot taste,
much less assimilate, a solid until it becomes a liquid; and your great
idea, your sermon or moral, lies upon your poem a dead, cumbrous mass
unless there is adequate heat and solvent, emotional power. Herein I
think Wordsworth's "Excursion" fails as a poem. It has too much solid
matter. It is an over-freighted bark that does not ride the waves
buoyantly and lifelike; far less so than Tennyson's "In Memoriam,"
which is just as truly a philosophical poem as the "Excursion." (Wordsworth
is the fresher poet; his poems seem really to have been written in
the open air, and to have been brought directly under the oxygenating
influence of outdoor nature; while in Tennyson this influence seems
tempered or farther removed.)

The physical cosmos itself is not a thought, but an act. Natural objects
do not affect us like well-wrought specimens or finished handicraft, which
have nothing to follow, but as living, procreating energy. Nature is
perpetual transition. Everything passes and presses on; there is no
pause, no completion, no explanation. To produce and multiply
endlessly, without ever reaching the last possibility of
excellence, and without committing herself to any end, is the law of
Nature.

These considerations bring us very near the essential difference
between prose and poetry, or rather between the poetic and the didactic
treatment of a subject. The essence of creative art is always the same;
namely, interior movement and fusion; while the method of the
didactic or prosaic treatment is fixity, limitation.

The latter must formulate and define; but the principle of the former
is to flow, to suffuse, to mount, to escape.

We can conceive of life only as something constantly _becoming._
It plays forever on the verge.

It is never _in loco,_ but always _in transitu._ Arrest the wind, and
it is no longer the wind; close your hands upon the light, and behold,
it is gone.

The antithesis of art in method is science, as Coleridge has intimated.
As the latter aims at the particular, so the former aims at the
universal. One would have truth of detail, the other truth of _ensemble._
The method of science may be symbolized by the straight line, that
of art by the curve. The results of science, relatively to its aim,
must be parts and pieces; while art must give the whole in every act;
not quantitively of course, but qualitively,--by the integrity of
the spirit in which it works.

The Greek mind will always be the type of the artist mind, mainly
because of its practical bent, its healthful objectivity.

The Greek never looked inward, but outward. Criticism and speculation were
foreign to him. His head shows a very marked predominance of the
motive and perceptive powers over the reflective. The expression of the
face is never what we call intellectual or thoughtful, but commanding.
His gods are not philosophers, but delight in deeds, justice, rulership.

Among the differences between the modern and the classical aesthetic
mind is the greater precision and definiteness of the latter.

The modern genius is Gothic, and demands in art a certain vagueness
and spirituality like that of music, refusing to be grasped and
formulated.

Hence for us (and this is undoubtedly an improvement) there must
always be something about a poem, or any work of art, besides the
evident intellect or plot of it, or what is on its surface, or what
it tells.

This something is the Invisible, the Undefined, almost Unexpressed, and
is perhaps the best part of any work of art, as it is of a noble
personality.

To amuse, to exhibit culture, to formulate the aesthetic, or even to
excite the emotions, is by no means all,--is not even the deepest part.
Beside these, and inclosing all, is the general impalpable effect,
like good air, or the subtle presence of good spirits, wordless but
more potent far than words.

As, in the superbest person, it is not merely what he says or knows or
shows, or even how he behaves, but the silent qualities, like
gravitation, that insensibly but resistlessly hold us; so in a good
poem, or in any other expression of art.

IX EMERSON

Wherein the race has so far lost and gained, in being transplanted from
Europe to the New England soil and climate, is well illustrated
by the writings of Emerson.

There is greater refinement and sublimation of thought, greater clearness
and sharpness of outline, greater audacity of statement, but, on the
other hand, there is a loss of bulk, of unction, of adipose tissue, and
shall we say of power?

Emerson is undoubtedly a master on the New England scale,--such a
master as the land and race are capable of producing.

He stands out clear and undeniable. The national type, as illustrated
by that section of the country, is the purest and strongest in him of
any yet. He can never suffer eclipse. Compared with the English or
German master, he is undoubtedly deficient in viscera, in moral
and intellectual stomach; but, on the other hand, he is of a fibre
and quality hard to match in any age or land.

From first to last he strikes one as something extremely pure and compact,
like a nut or an egg.

Great matters and tendencies lie folded in him, or rather are summarized
in his pages.
As their hands clasped and she felt the teamster callouses on his palm,
her quick eyes saw a score of things. About all that he saw was her
eyes, and then it was with a vague impression that they were blue. Not
till later in the day did he realize that they were gray. She, on
the contrary, saw his eyes as they really were--deep blue, wide,
and handsome in a sullen-boyish way. She saw that they were
straight-looking, and she liked them, as she had liked the glimpse she
had caught of his hand, and as she liked the contact of his hand itself.
Then, too, but not sharply, she had perceived the short, square-set
nose, the rosiness of cheek, and the firm, short upper lip, ere delight
centered her flash of gaze on the well-modeled, large clean mouth where
red lips smiled clear of the white, enviable teeth. A BOY, A GREAT BIG
MAN-BOY, was her thought; and, as they smiled at each other and their
hands slipped apart, she was startled by a glimpse of his hair--short
and crisp and sandy, hinting almost of palest gold save that it was too
flaxen to hint of gold at all.

So blond was he that she was reminded of stage-types she had seen, such
as Ole Olson and Yon Yonson; but there resemblance ceased. It was a
matter of color only, for the eyes were dark-lashed and -browed, and
were cloudy with temperament rather than staring a child-gaze of wonder,
and the suit of smooth brown cloth had been made by a tailor. Saxon
appraised the suit on the instant, and her secret judgment was NOT A
CENT LESS THAN FIFTY DOLLARS. Further, he had none of the awkwardness
of the Scandinavian immigrant. On the contrary, he was one of those
rare individuals that radiate muscular grace through the ungraceful
man-garments of civilization. Every movement was supple, slow, and
apparently considered. This she did not see nor analyze. She saw only a
clothed man with grace of carriage and movement. She felt, rather than
perceived, the calm and certitude of all the muscular play of him, and
she felt, too, the promise of easement and rest that was especially
grateful and craved-for by one who had incessantly, for six days and at
top-speed, ironed fancy starch. As the touch of his hand had been good,
so, to her, this subtler feel of all of him, body and mind, was good.

As he took her program and skirmished and joked after the way of young
men, she realized the immediacy of delight she had taken in him.
Never in her life had she been so affected by any man. She wondered to
herself: IS THIS THE MAN?

He danced beautifully. The joy was hers that good dancers take when they
have found a good dancer for a partner. The grace of those slow-moving,
certain muscles of his accorded perfectly with the rhythm of the music.
There was never doubt, never a betrayal of indecision. She glanced at
Bert, dancing "tough" with Mary, caroming down the long floor with more
than one collision with the increasing couples. Graceful himself in his
slender, tall, lean-stomached way, Bert was accounted a good dancer; yet
Saxon did not remember ever having danced with him with keen pleasure.
Just a hit of a jerk spoiled his dancing--a jerk that did not occur,
usually, but that always impended. There was something spasmodic in his
mind. He was too quick, or he continually threatened to be too quick.
He always seemed just on the verge of overrunning the time. It was
disquieting. He made for unrest.

"You're a dream of a dancer," Billy Roberts was saying. "I've heard lots
of the fellows talk about your dancing."

"I love it," she answered.

But from the way she said it he sensed her reluctance to speak, and
danced on in silence, while she warmed with the appreciation of a
woman for gentle consideration. Gentle consideration was a thing rarely
encountered in the life she lived. IS THIS THE MAN? She remembered
Mary's "I'd marry him to-morrow," and caught herself speculating on
marrying Billy Roberts by the next day--if he asked her.

With eyes that dreamily desired to close, she moved on in the arms of
this masterful, guiding pressure. A PRIZE-FIGHTER! She experienced a
thrill of wickedness as she thought of what Sarah would say could she
see her now. Only he wasn't a prizefighter, but a teamster.

Came an abrupt lengthening of step, the guiding pressure grew more
compelling, and she was caught up and carried along, though her
velvet-shod feet never left the floor. Then came the sudden control down
to the shorter step again, and she felt herself being held slightly from
him so that he might look into her face and laugh with her in joy at
the exploit. At the end, as the band slowed in the last bars, they, too,
slowed, their dance fading with the music in a lengthening glide that
ceased with the last lingering tone.

"We're sure cut out for each other when it comes to dancin'," he said,
as they made their way to rejoin the other couple.

"It was a dream," she replied.

So low was her voice that he bent to hear, and saw the flush in her
cheeks that seemed communicated to her eyes, which were softly warm
and sensuous. He took the program from her and gravely and gigantically
wrote his name across all the length of it.

"An' now it's no good," he dared. "Ain't no need for it."

He tore it across and tossed it aside.

"Me for you, Saxon, for the next," was Bert's greeting, as they came up.
"You take Mary for the next whirl, Bill."

"Nothin' doin', Bo," was the retort. "Me an' Saxon's framed up to last
the day."

"Watch out for him, Saxon," Mary warned facetiously. "He's liable to get
a crush on you."

"I guess I know a good thing when I see it," Billy responded gallantly.

"And so do I," Saxon aided and abetted.

"I'd 'a' known you if I'd seen you in the dark," Billy added.

Mary regarded them with mock alarm, and Bert said good-naturedly:

"All I got to say is you ain't wastin' any time gettin' together. Just
the same, if' you can spare a few minutes from each other after a couple
more whirls, Mary an' me'd be complimented to have your presence at
dinner."

"Just like that," chimed Mary.

"Quit your kiddin'," Billy laughed back, turning his head to look into
Saxon's eyes. "Don't listen to 'em. They're grouched because they got to
dance together. Bert's a rotten dancer, and Mary ain't so much. Come on,
there she goes. See you after two more dances."


CHAPTER III

They had dinner in the open-air, tree-walled dining-room, and Saxon
noted that it was Billy who paid the reckoning for the four. They knew
many of the young men and women at the other tables, and greetings and
fun flew back and forth. Bert was very possessive with Mary, almost
roughly so, resting his hand on hers, catching and holding it, and,
once, forcibly slipping off her two rings and refusing to return them
for a long while. At times, when he put his arm around her waist, Mary
promptly disengaged it; and at other times, with elaborate obliviousness
that deceived no one, she allowed it to remain.

And Saxon, talking little but studying Billy Roberts very intently, was
satisfied that there would be an utter difference in the way he would do
such things... if ever he would do them. Anyway, he'd never paw a girl
as Bert and lots of the other fellows did. She measured the breadth of
Billy's heavy shoulders.

"Why do they call you 'Big' Bill?" she asked. "You're not so very tall."

"Nope," he agreed. "I'm only five feet eight an' three-quarters. I guess
it must be my weight."

"He fights at a hundred an' eighty," Bert interjected.

"Oh, out it," Billy said quickly, a cloud-rift of displeasure showing
in his eyes. "I ain't a fighter. I ain't fought in six months. I've quit
it. It don't pay."

"Yon got two hundred the night you put the Frisco Slasher to the bad,"
Bert urged proudly.

"Cut it. Cut it now.--Say, Saxon, you ain't so big yourself, are you?
But you're built just right if anybody should ask you. You're round an'
slender at the same time. I bet I can guess your weight."

"Everybody guesses over it," she warned, while inwardly she was puzzled
that she should at the same time be glad and regretful that he did not
fight any more.

"Not me," he was saying. "I'm a wooz at weight-guessin'. Just you watch
me." He regarded her critically, and it was patent that warm approval
played its little rivalry with the judgment of his gaze. "Wait a
minute."

He reached over to her and felt her arm at the biceps. The pressure of
the encircling fingers was firm and honest, and Saxon thrilled to it.
There was magic in this man-boy. She would have known only irritation
had Bert or any other man felt her arm. But this man! IS HE THE MAN? she
was questioning, when he voiced his conclusion.

"Your clothes don't weigh more'n seven pounds. And seven from--hum--say
one hundred an' twenty-three--one hundred an' sixteen is your stripped
weight."

But at the penultimate word, Mary cried out with sharp reproof:

"Why, Billy Roberts, people don't talk about such things."

He looked at her with slow-growing, uncomprehending surprise.

"What things?" he demanded finally.

"There you go again! You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Look! You've
got Saxon blushing!"

"I am not," Saxon denied indignantly.

"An' if you keep on, Mary, you'll have me blushing," Billy growled. "I
guess I know what's right an' what ain't. It ain't what a guy says, but
what he thinks. An' I'm thinkin' right, an' Saxon knows it. An' she an'
I ain't thinkin' what you're thinkin' at all."

"Oh! Oh!" Mary cried. "You're gettin' worse an' worse. I never think
such things."

"Whoa, Mary! Backup!" Bert checked her peremptorily. "You're in the
wrong stall. Billy never makes mistakes like that."

"But he needn't be so raw," she persisted.

"Come on, Mary, an' be good, an' cut that stuff," was Billy's dismissal
of her, as he turned to Saxon. "How near did I come to it?"

"One hundred and twenty-two," she answered, looking deliberately at
Mary. "One twenty two with my clothes."

Billy burst into hearty laughter, in which Bert joined.

"I don't care," Mary protested, "You're terrible, both of you--an' you,
too, Saxon. I'd never a-thought it of you."

"Listen to me, kid," Bert began soothingly, as his arm slipped around
her waist.

But in the false excitement she had worked herself into, Mary rudely
repulsed the arm, and then, fearing that she had wounded her lover's
feelings, she took advantage of the teasing and banter to recover
her good humor. His arm was permitted to return, and with heads bent
together, they talked in whispers.

Billy discreetly began to make conversation with Saxon.

"Say, you know, your name is a funny one. I never heard it tagged on
anybody before. But it's all right. I like it."

"My mother gave it to me. She was educated, and knew all kinds of words.
She was always reading books, almost until she died. And she wrote lots
and lots. I've got some of her poetry published in a San Jose newspaper
long ago. The Saxons were a race of people--she told me all about them
when I was a little girl. They were wild, like Indians, only they were
white. And they had blue eyes, and yellow hair, and they were awful
fighters."

As she talked, Billy followed her solemnly, his eyes steadily turned on
hers.

"Never heard of them," he confessed. "Did they live anywhere around
here?"

She laughed.

"No. They lived in England. They were the first English, and you know
the Americans came from the English. We're Saxons, you an' me, an' Mary,
an' Bert, and all the Americans that are real Americans, you know, and
not Dagoes and Japs and such."

"My folks lived in America a long time," Billy said slowly, digesting
the information she had given and relating himself to it. "Anyway, my
mother's folks did. They crossed to Maine hundreds of years ago."

"My father was 'State of Maine," she broke in, with a little gurgle of
joy. "And my mother was horn in Ohio, or where Ohio is now. She used to
call it the Great Western Reserve. What was your father?"

"Don't know." Billy shrugged his shoulders. "He didn't know himself.
Nobody ever knew, though he was American, all right, all right."

"His name's regular old American," Saxon suggested. "There's a big
English general right now whose name is Roberts. I've read it in the
papers."

"But Roberts wasn't my father's name. He never knew what his name was.
Roberts was the name of a gold-miner who adopted him. You see, it was
this way. When they was Indian-fightin' up there with the Modoc Indians,
a lot of the miners an' settlers took a hand. Roberts was captain of one
outfit, and once, after a fight, they took a lot of prisoners--squaws,
an' kids an' babies. An' one of the kids was my father. They figured he
was about five years old. He didn't know nothin' but Indian."

Saxon clapped her hands, and her eyes sparkled: "He'd been captured on
an Indian raid!"

"That's the way they figured it," Billy nodded. "They recollected a
wagon-train of Oregon settlers that'd been killed by the Modocs four
years before. Roberts adopted him, and that's why I don't know his real
name. But you can bank on it, he crossed the plains just the same."

"So did my father," Saxon said proudly.

"An' my mother, too," Billy added, pride touching his own voice.
"Anyway, she came pretty close to crossin' the plains, because she was
born in a wagon on the River Platte on the way out."

"My mother, too," said Saxon. "She was eight years old, an' she walked
most of the way after the oxen began to give out."

Billy thrust out his hand.

"Put her there, kid," he said. "We're just like old friends, what with
the same kind of folks behind us."

With shining eyes, Saxon extended her hand to his, and gravely they
shook.

"Isn't it wonderful?" she murmured. "We're both old American stock. And
if you aren't a Saxon there never was one--your hair, your eyes, your
skin, everything. And you're a fighter, too."

"I guess all our old folks was fighters when it comes to that. It come
natural to 'em, an' dog-gone it, they just had to fight or they'd never
come through."

"What are you two talkin' about?" Mary broke in upon them.

"They're thicker'n mush in no time," Bert girded. "You'd think they'd
known each other a week already."

"Oh, we knew each other longer than that," Saxon returned. "Before ever
we were born our folks were walkin' across the plains together."

"When your folks was waitin' for the railroad to be built an' all the
Indians killed off before they dasted to start for California," was
Billy's way of proclaiming the new alliance. "We're the real goods,
Saxon an'n me, if anybody should ride up on a buzz-wagon an' ask you."

"Oh, I don't know," Mary boasted with quiet petulance. "My father stayed
behind to fight in the Civil War. He was a drummer-boy. That's why he
didn't come to California until afterward."

"And my father went back to fight in the Civil War," Saxon said.

"And mine, too," said Billy.

They looked at each other gleefully. Again they had found a new contact.

"Well, they're all dead, ain't they?" was Bert's saturnine comment.
"There ain't no difference dyin' in battle or in the poorhouse. The
thing is they're deado. I wouldn't care a rap if my father'd been
hanged. It's all the same in a thousand years. This braggin' about folks
makes me tired. Besides, my father couldn't a-fought. He wasn't born
till two years after the war. Just the same, two of my uncles were
killed at Gettysburg. Guess we done our share."

"Just like that," Mary applauded.

Bert's arm went around her waist again.

"We're here, ain't we?" he said. "An' that's what counts. The dead are
dead, an' you can bet your sweet life they just keep on stayin' dead."

Mary put her hand over his mouth and began to chide him for his
awfulness, whereupon he kissed the palm of her hand and put his head
closer to hers.

The merry clatter of dishes was increasing as the dining-room filled up.
Here and there voices were raised in snatches of song. There were
shrill squeals and screams and bursts of heavier male laughter as the
everlasting skirmishing between the young men and girls played on. Among
some of the men the signs of drink were already manifest. At a near
table girls were calling out to Billy. And Saxon, the sense of temporary
possession already strong on her, noted with jealous eyes that he was a
favorite and desired object to them.

"Ain't they awful?" Mary voiced her disapproval. "They got a nerve. I
know who they are. No respectable girl 'd have a thing to do with them.
Listen to that!"

"Oh, you Bill, you," one of them, a buxom young brunette, was calling.
"Hope you ain't forgotten me, Bill."

"Oh, you chicken," he called back gallantly.

Saxon flattered herself that he showed vexation, and she conceived an
immense dislike for the brunette.

"Goin' to dance?" the latter called.

"Mebbe," he answered, and turned abruptly to Saxon. "Say, we old
Americans oughta stick together, don't you think? They ain't many of us
left. The country's fillin' up with all kinds of foreigners."

He talked on steadily, in a low, confidential voice, head close to hers,
as advertisement to the other girl that he was occupied.

From the next table on the opposite side, a young man had singled out
Saxon. His dress was tough. His companions, male and female, were tough.
His face was inflamed, his eyes touched with wildness.

"Hey, you!" he called. "You with the velvet slippers. Me for you."

The girl beside him put her arm around his neck and tried to hush him,
and through the mufflement of her embrace they could hear him gurgling:

"I tell you she's some goods. Watch me go across an' win her from them
cheap skates."

"Butchertown hoodlums," Mary sniffed.

Saxon's eyes encountered the eyes of the girl, who glared hatred across
at her. And in Billy's eyes she saw moody anger smouldering. The eyes
were more sullen, more handsome than ever, and clouds and veils and
lights and shadowe shifted and deepened in the blue of them until they
gave her a sense of unfathomable depth. He had stopped talking, and he
made no effort to talk.

"Don't start a rough house, Bill," Bert cautioned. "They're from across
the hay an' they don't know you, that's all."

Bert stood up suddenly, stepped over to the other table, whispered
briefly, and came back. Every face at the table was turned on Billy. The
offender arose brokenly, shook off the detaining hand of his girl, and
came over. He was a large man, with a hard, malignant face and bitter
eyes. Also, he was a subdued man.

"You're Big Bill Roberts," he said thickly, clinging to the table as he
reeled. "I take my hat off to you. I apologize. I admire your taste in
skirts, an' take it from me that's a compliment; but I did'nt know who
you was. If I'd knowed you was Bill Roberts there wouldn't been a peep
from my fly-trap. D'ye get me? I apologize. Will you shake hands?"

Gruffly, Billy said, "It's all right--forget it, sport;" and sullenly
he shook hands and with a slow, massive movement thrust the other back
toward his own table.

Saxon was glowing. Here was a man, a protector, something to lean
against, of whom even the Butchertown toughs were afraid as soon as his
name was mentioned.


CHAPTER IV

After dinner there were two dances in the pavilion, and then the band
led the way to the race track for the games. The dancers followed, and
all through the grounds the picnic parties left their tables to join in.
Five thousand packed the grassy slopes of the amphitheater and swarmed
inside the race track. Here, first of the events, the men were lining
up for a tug of war. The contest was between the Oakland Bricklayers and
the San Francisco Bricklayers, and the picked braves, huge and heavy,
were taking their positions along the rope. They kicked heel-holds in
the soft earth, rubbed their hands with the soil from underfoot, and
laughed and joked with the crowd that surged about them.

The judges and watchers struggled vainly to keep back this crowd of
relatives and friends. The Celtic blood was up, and the Celtic faction
spirit ran high. The air was filled with cries of cheer, advice,
warning, and threat. Many elected to leave the side of their own team
and go to the side of the other team with the intention of circumventing
foul play. There were as many women as men among the jostling
supporters. The dust from the trampling, scuffling feet rose in the air,
and Mary gasped and coughed and begged Bert to take her away. But he,
the imp in him elated with the prospect of trouble, insisted on urging
in closer. Saxon clung to Billy, who slowly and methodically elbowed and
shouldered a way for her.

"No place for a girl," he grumbled, looking down at her with a masked
expression of absent-mindedness, while his elbow powerfully crushed on
the ribs of a big Irishman who gave room. "Things'll break loose when
they start pullin'. They's been too much drink, an' you know what the
Micks are for a rough house."

Saxon was very much out of place among these large-bodied men and women.
She seemed very small and childlike, delicate and fragile, a creature
from another race. Only Billy's skilled bulk and muscle saved her.
He was continually glancing from face to face of the women and always
returning to study her face, nor was she unaware of the contrast he was
making.

Some excitement occurred a score of feet away from them, and to the
sound of exclamations and blows a surge ran through the crowd. A large
man, wedged sidewise in the jam, was shoved against Saxon, crushing her
closely against Billy, who reached across to the man's shoulder with a
massive thrust that was not so slow as usual. An involuntary grunt came
from the victim, who turned his head, showing sun-reddened blond skin
and unmistakable angry Irish eyes.

"What's eatin' yeh?" he snarled.

"Get off your foot; you're standin' on it," was Billy's contemptuous
reply, emphasized by an increase of thrust.

The Irishman grunted again and made a frantic struggle to twist his body
around, but the wedging bodies on either side held him in a vise.

"I'll break yer ugly face for yeh in a minute," he announced in
wrath-thick tones.

Then his own face underwent transformation. The snarl left the lips, and
the angry eyes grew genial.

"An' sure an' it's yerself," he said. "I didn't know it was yeh
a-shovin'. I seen yeh lick the Terrible Swede, if yeh WAS robbed on the
decision."

"No, you didn't, Bo," Billy answered pleasantly. "You saw me take a good
beatin' that night. The decision was all right."

The Irishman was now beaming. I'd do anything you said to make myself
agreeable and fit company for you."
"You are very fit company for me now, Tom," I said, "and you are
of a great deal more use in the world than I am; you know more that
is worth knowing than I do.

Soon as I can get me arm free I'm goin' to
shake yeh by the hand an' help yeh aise yer young lady."

Frustrated in the struggle to get the crowd back, the referee fired his
revolver in the air, and the tug-of-war was on. Pandemonium broke loose.
Saxon, protected by the two big men, was near enough to the front to
see much that ensued. The men on the rope pulled and strained till their
faces were red with effort and their joints crackled. The rope was
new, and, as their hands slipped, their wives and daughters sprang in,
scooping up the earth in double handfuls and pouring it on the rope and
the hands of their men to give them better grip.

A stout, middle-aged woman, carried beyond herself by the passion of the
contest, seized the rope and pulled beside her husband, encouraged him
with loud cries. A watcher from the opposing team dragged her screaming
away and was dropped like a steer by an ear-blow from a partisan from
the woman's team. He, in turn, went down, and brawny women joined with
their men in the battle. Vainly the judges and watchers begged,
pleaded, yelled, and swung with their fists. Men, as well as women,
were springing in to the rope and pulling. No longer was it team against
team, but all Oakland against all San Francisco, festooned with a
free-for-all fight. Hands overlaid hands two and three deep in the
struggle to grasp the rope. And hands that found no holds, doubled into
bunches of knuckles that impacted on the jaws of the watchers who strove
to tear hand-holds from the rope.

Bert yelped with joy, while Mary clung to him, mad with fear. Close to
the rope the fighters were going down and being trampled. The dust arose
in clouds, while from beyond, all around, unable to get into the battle,
could be heard the shrill and impotent rage-screams and rage-yells of
women and men.

"Dirty work, dirty work," Billy muttered over and over; and, though he
saw much that occurred, assisted by the friendly Irishman he was coolly
and safely working Saxon back out of the melee.

At last the break came. The losing team, accompanied by its host of
volunteers, was dragged in a rush over the ground and disappeared under
the avalanche of battling forms of the onlookers.

Leaving Saxon under the protection of the Irishman in an outer eddy
of calm, Billy plunged back into the mix-up. Several minutes later he
emerged with the missing couple--Bert bleeding from a blow on the ear,
but hilarious, and Mary rumpled and hysterical.

"This ain't sport," she kept repeating. "It's a shame, a dirty shame."

Mr. Hammond was so much occupied when I came away that I had not
seen him for a day or two.

He has friends staying with him."
"True enough. Mr. Worthington has gone up there with his pretty daughter
to see whether he can allow her to bury herself in the country.

You saw Miss Worthington? Will she be popular among your people when she
is Mrs.
Hammond?"

I caught a glimpse of Tom's face, and felt myself turning pale as I
answered, with a composure that did not seem to come from my own
strength,--
"Miss Worthington is a very pleasant-spoken young lady.

The people will like her, because she seems to care for them, just as
Mr. Hammond does.
But do you think, Sir, that you could put me in the way of teaching
school? Could I learn how to do it?"
"Well, I am just the right person to come to, Miss Janet, for the
people have put me on the School Board, and--yes, we shall want
some teachers next month in two of the primary departments.

Could you wait a month?
You might be studying up for your examination; it's not much, but
it'll not hurt you to go over their arithmetics and grammars.

And I must write to Hammond to-day about some business of the
Company. I'll ask him about your qualifications, and what he thinks
of it, and we'll see what can be done. I should not wonder if I could
get you a place."

Mr. Kendall shook hands with us both; and, bidding him good-morning,
with many thanks for his kindness, we went out.

We walked a square silently. Suddenly Tom turned to me:--
"You did not tell me, Janet, of this young lady."

"No."
"And is Mr. Hammond going to marry her?"
The blood rushed to my face, till it was crimson to the very hair, while
I stammered,--
"I do not know,--you heard Mr. Kendall."
Tom's voice was as gentle as a mother's in answer, but his words
had little to do with the subject, they were almost as incoherent
as mine,--something about his hoping I would like living in Cincinnati,
that teaching would not be too tiresome for me.

But from that moment George Hammond's name was never mentioned between
us.

I wrote that day to my step-mother, telling her of my plans and prospects,
and that evening Tom brought me the needed school-books.

He had found them by asking some of the men at the yard whose children
went to the public schools, and to the study of them I sat down with a
determination that no slight difficulty could subdue. The next week
brought a long, kind letter from Mr.

Hammond, scolding me for going as I did, and declaring that he
missed me every day.

"But more than all shall I miss you, Janet, when I bring Miss
Worthington back as my wife; I had depended so upon you as a companion
for her.

But still it is a good thing for you to see something of the world, and
you are bright enough to do anything you set out to do. I have written
to Mr. Kendall to do all he can for you, and with Tom to take care
of you I am sure you will get along.

I begin to suspect that your going away was a thing contrived between
Tom and yourself.

Who knows how soon he may bring you back among us to show the Sandy
farmers' wives how to live more comfortably than some of them do?

Tom has a very pretty place below the mouth of Blackberry, if you would
only show him how to take care of it."
There was comfort in this letter, in spite of the tears it caused me.
My secret was safe. Miss Hammond had not been so cruel, so traitorous
to her sex, as to betray it.

If she had not told it now, she never would tell it, and Tom, if he suspected
it, was too good, too noble, to whisper it even to himself. So I laid
away my letter, and with a lighter heart turned again to my tasks.

And now three months have passed, for two of which I have been
teaching.
There are difficulties, yes, and there is hard work; but I can manage
the children. I have the tact, the character, the gift, that nameless
something which gives one person control over others; and for the studies,
they are as yet a pleasure to me. I see how they will lead me on to
other knowledge, how I may bring into form and make available my desultory
reading, and there is a great pleasure in the very study itself.

And for the rest, if my great grief is never out of my mind, if it is
always present to me, at least I can put it back, behind my daily
occupations and interests.Once, for an instant, his arm was jerked down. Again it went
up. But evidently the paper had broken, and with a last desperate
effort, before he went down, Tim flung the coin out in a silvery shower
upon the heads of the crowd beneath. Then ensued a weary period of
arguing and quarreling.

"I wish they'd finish, so as we could get back to the dancin'," Mary
complained. "This ain't no fun."

Slowly and painfully the judges' stand was cleared, and an announcer,
stepping to the front of the stand, spread his arms appealing for
silence. The angry clamor died down.

 "The judges have decided," he shouted, "that this day of good
fellowship an' brotherhood--"

"Hear! Hear!" Many of the cooler heads applauded. "That's the stuff!"
"No fightin'!" "No hard feelin's!"

"An' therefore," the announcer became audible again, "the judges have
decided to put up another purse of twenty-five dollars an' run the race
over again!"

"An' Tim?" bellowed scores of throats. "What about Tim?" "He's been
robbed!" "The judges is rotten!"

Again the announcer stilled the tumult with his arm appeal.

"The judges have decided, for the sake of good feelin', that Timothy
McManus will also run. If he wins, the money's his."

"Now wouldn't that jar you?" Billy grumbled disgustedly. "If Tim's
eligible now, he was eligible the first time. An' if he was eligible the
first time, then the money was his."

"Red-head'll bust himself wide open this time," Bert jubilated.

"An' so will Tim," Billy rejoined. "You can bet he's mad clean through,
and he'll let out the links he was holdin' in last time."

Another quarter of an hour was spent in clearing the track of the
excited crowd, and this time only Tim and Red-head toed the mark. The
other three young men had abandoned the contest.

The leap of Tim, at the report of the revolver, put him a clean yard in
the lead.

"I guess he's professional, all right, all right," Billy remarked. "An'
just look at him go!"

Half-way around, Tim led by fifty feet, and, running swiftly,
maintaining the same lead, he came down the homestretch an easy winner.
When directly beneath the group on the hillside, the incredible and
unthinkable happened. Standing close to the inside edge of the track was
a dapper young man with a light switch cane. He was distinctly out of
place in such a gathering, for upon him was no ear-mark of the working
class. Afterward, Bert was of the opinion that he looked like a swell
dancing master, while Billy called him "the dude."

So far as Timothy McManus was concerned, the dapper young man was
destiny; for as Tim passed him, the young man, with utmost deliberation,
thrust his cane between Tim's flying legs. Tim sailed through the air in
a headlong pitch, struck spread-eagled on his face, and plowed along in
a cloud of dust.

There was an instant of vast and gasping silence. The young man, too,
seemed petrified by the ghastliness of his deed. It took an appreciable
interval of time for him, as well as for the onlookers, to realize what
he had done. They recovered first, and from a thousand throats the wild
Irish yell went up. Red-head won the race without a cheer. The storm
center had shifted to the young man with the cane. After the yell, he
had one moment of indecision; then he turned and darted up the track.

"Go it, sport!" Bert cheered, waving his hat in the air. "You're the
goods for me! Who'd a-thought it? Who'd a-thought it? Say!--wouldn't it,
now? Just wouldn't it?"

"Phew! He's a streak himself," Billy admired. "But what did he do it
for? He's no bricklayer."

Like a frightened rabbit, the mad roar at his heels, the young man tore
up the track to an open space on the hillside, up which he clawed
and disappeared among the trees. Behind him toiled a hundred vengeful
runners.

"It's too bad he's missing the rest of it," Billy said. "Look at 'em
goin' to it."

Bert was beside himself. He leaped up and down and cried continuously.

"Look at 'em! Look at 'em! Look at 'em!"

The Oakland faction was outraged. Twice had its favorite runner been
jobbed out of the race. This last was only another vile trick of the
Frisco faction. So Oakland doubled its brawny fists and swung into San
Francisco for blood. And San Francisco, consciously innocent, was no
less willing to join issues. To be charged with such a crime was no less
monstrous than the crime itself. Besides, for too many tedious hours
had the Irish heroically suppressed themselves. Five thousands of them
exploded into joyous battle. The women joined with them. The whole
amphitheater was filled with the conflict. There were rallies, retreats,
charges, and counter-charges. Weaker groups were forced fighting up
the hillsides. Other groups, bested, fled among the trees to carry
on guerrilla warfare, emerging in sudden dashes to overwhelm isolated
enemies. Half a dozen special policemen, hired by the Weasel Park
management, received an impartial trouncing from both sides.

"Nobody's the friend of a policeman," Bert chortled, dabbing his
handkerchief to his injured ear, which still bled.

The bushes crackled behind him, and he sprang aside to let the locked
forms of two men go by, rolling over and over down the hill, each
striking when uppermost, and followed by a screaming woman who rained
blows on the one who was patently not of her clan.

The judges, in the second story of the stand, valiantly withstood
a fierce assault until the frail structure toppled to the ground in
splinters.

"What's that woman doing?" Saxon asked, calling attention to an elderly
woman beneath them on the track, who had sat down and was pulling from
her foot an elastic-sided shoe of generous dimensions.

"Goin' swimming," Bert chuckled, as the stocking followed.

They watched, fascinated. The shoe was pulled on again over the bare
foot. Then the woman slipped a rock the size of her fist into the
stocking, and, brandishing this ancient and horrible weapon, lumbered
into the nearest fray.

"Oh!--Oh!--Oh!" Bert screamed, with every blow she struck "Hey, old
flannel-mouth! Watch out! You'll get yours in a second. Oh! Oh! A peach!
Did you see it? Hurray for the old lady! Look at her tearin' into 'em!
Watch out, old girl!... Ah-h-h."

His voice died away regretfully, as the one with the stocking, whose
hair had been clutched from behind by another Amazon, was whirled about
in a dizzy semicircle.

Vainly Mary clung to his arm, shaking him back and forth and
remonstrating.

"Can't you be sensible?" she cried. "It's awful! I tell you it's awful!"

But Bert was irrepressible.

"Go it, old girl!" he encouraged. "You win! Me for you every time! Now's
your chance! Swat! Oh! My! A peach! A peach!"

"It's the biggest rough-house I ever saw," Billy confided to Saxon. "It
sure takes the Micks to mix it. But what did that dude wanta do it for?
That's what gets me. He wasn't a bricklayer--not even a workingman--just
a regular sissy dude that didn't know a livin' soul in the grounds. But
if he wanted to raise a rough-house he certainly done it. Look at 'em.
They're fightin' everywhere."

He broke into sudden laughter, so hearty that the tears came into his
eyes.

"What is it?" Saxon asked, anxious not to miss anything.

"It's that dude," Billy explained between gusts. "What did he wanta do
it for? That's what gets my goat. What'd he wanta do it for?"

There was more crashing in the brush, and two women erupted upon the
scene, one in flight, the other pursuing. Almost ere they could realize
it, the little group found itself merged in the astounding conflict that
covered, if not the face of creation, at least all the visible landscape
of Weasel Park.

The fleeing woman stumbled in rounding the end of a picnic bench, and
would have been caught had she not seized Mary's arm to recover balance,
and then flung Mary full into the arms of the woman who pursued. This
woman, largely built, middle-aged, and too irate to comprehend, clutched
Mary's hair by one hand and lifted the other to smack her. Before the
blow could fall, Billy had seized both the woman's wrists.

"Come on, old girl, cut it out," he said appeasingly. "You're in wrong.
She ain't done nothin'."

Then the woman did a strange thing. Making no resistance, but
maintaining her hold on the girl's hair, she stood still and calmly
began to scream. The scream was hideously compounded of fright and fear.
Yet in her face was neither fright nor fear. She regarded Billy coolly
and appraisingly, as if to see how he took it--her scream merely the cry
to the clan for help.

"Aw, shut up, you battleax!" Bert vociferated, trying to drag her off by
the shoulders.

The result was that The four rocked back and forth, while the woman
calmly went on screaming. The scream became touched with triumph as more
crashing was heard in the brush.

Saxon saw Billy's slow eyes glint suddenly to the hardness of steel, and
at the same time she saw him put pressure on his wrist-holds. The woman
released her grip on Mary and was shoved back and free. Then the first
man of the rescue was upon them. He did not pause to inquire into the
merits of the affair. It was sufficient that he saw the woman reeling
away from Billy and screaming with pain that was largely feigned.

"It's all a mistake," Billy cried hurriedly. "We apologize, sport--"

The Irishman swung ponderously. Billy ducked, cutting his apology short,
and as the sledge-like fist passed over his head, he drove his left to
the other's jaw. The big Irishman toppled over sidewise and sprawled
on the edge of the slope. Half-scrambled back to his feet and out of
balance, he was caught by Bert's fist, and this time went clawing down
the slope that was slippery with short, dry grass. Bert was redoubtable.
"That for you, old girl--my compliments," was his cry, as he shoved the
woman over the edge on to the treacherous slope. Three more men were
emerging from the brush.

In the meantime, Billy had put Saxon in behind the protection of the
picnic table. Mary, who was hysterical, had evinced a desire to cling to
him, and he had sent her sliding across the top of the table to Saxon.

"Come on, you flannel-mouths!" Bert yelled at the newcomers, himself
swept away by passion, his black eyes flashing wildly, his dark face
inflamed by the too-ready blood. "Come on, you cheap skates! Talk about
Gettysburg. We'll show you all the Americans ain't dead yet!"

"Shut your trap--we don't want a scrap with the girls here," Billy
growled harshly, holding his position in front of the table. He turned
to the three rescuers, who were bewildered by the lack of anything
visible to rescue. "Go on, sports. We don't want a row. You're in wrong.
They ain't nothin' doin' in the fight line. We don't wanta fight--d'ye
get me?"

They still hesitated, and Billy might have succeeded in avoiding trouble
had not the man who had gone down the bank chosen that unfortunate
moment to reappear, crawling groggily on hands and knees and showing a
bleeding face. Again Bert reached him and sent him downslope, and the
other three, with wild yells, sprang in on Billy, who punched, shifted
position, ducked and punched, and shifted again ere he struck the third
time. His blows were clean end hard, scientifically delivered, with the
weight of his body behind.

Saxon, looking on, saw his eyes and learned more about him. She was
frightened, but clear-seeing, and she was startled by the disappearance
of all depth of light and shadow in his eyes. They showed surface
only--a hard, bright surface, almost glazed, devoid of all expression
save deadly seriousness. Bert's eyes showed madness. The eyes of the
Irishmen were angry and serious, and yet not all serious. There was a
wayward gleam in them, as if they enjoyed the fracas. But in Billy's
eyes was no enjoyment. It was as if he had certain work to do and had
doggedly settled down to do it.

Scarcely more expression did she note in the face, though there was
nothing in common between it and the one she had seen all day. The
boyishness had vanished. This face was mature in a terrifying, ageless
way. There was no anger in it, nor was it even pitiless. It seemed to
have glazed as hard and passionlessly as his eyes. Something came to her
of her wonderful mother's tales of the ancient Saxons, and he seemed to
her one of those Saxons, and she caught a glimpse, on the well of her
consciousness, of a long, dark boat, with a prow like the beak of a bird
of prey, and of huge, half-naked men, wing-helmeted, and one of their
faces, it seemed to her, was his face. She did not reason this. She felt
it, and visioned it as by an unthinkable clairvoyance, and gasped, for
the flurry of war was over. It had lasted only seconds, Bert was dancing
on the edge of the slippery slope and mocking the vanquished who had
slid impotently to the bottom. But Billy took charge.

"Come on, you girls," he commanded. "Get onto yourself, Bert. We got to
get onta this. We can't fight an army."

He led the retreat, holding Saxon's arm, and Bert, giggling and
jubilant, brought up the rear with an indignant Mary who protested
vainly in his unheeding ears.

For a hundred yards they ran and twisted through the trees, and then,
no signs of pursuit appearing, they slowed down to a dignified saunter.
Bert, the trouble-seeker, pricked his ears to the muffled sound of blows
and sobs, and stepped aside to investigate.

"Oh! look what I've found!" he called.

They joined him on the edge of a dry ditch and looked down. In the
bottom were two men, strays from the fight, grappled together and still
fighting. They were weeping out of sheer fatigue and helplessness,
and the blows they only occasionally struck were open-handed and
ineffectual.

"Hey, you, sport--throw sand in his eyes," Bert counseled. "That's it,
blind him an' he's your'n."

"Stop that!" Billy shouted at the man, who was following instructions,
"Or I'll come down there an' beat you up myself. It's all over--d'ye get
me? It's all over an' everybody's friends. Shake an' make up. The drinks
are on both of you. That's right--here, gimme your hand an' I'll pull
you out."

They left them shaking hands and brushing each other's clothes.

"It soon will be over," Billy grinned to Saxon. "I know 'em. Fight's fun
with them. An' this big scrap's made the days howlin' success. What did
I tell you!--look over at that table there."

A group of disheveled men and women, still breathing heavily, were
shaking hands all around.

"Come on, let's dance," Mary pleaded, urging them in the direction of
the pavilion.

All over the park the warring bricklayers were shaking hands and making
up, while the open-air bars were crowded with the drinkers.

Saxon walked very close to Billy. She was proud of him. He could fight,
and he could avoid trouble. In all that had occurred he had striven
to avoid trouble. And, also, consideration for her and Mary had been
uppermost in his mind.

"You are brave," she said to him.

"It's like takin' candy from a baby," he disclaimed. "They only
rough-house. They don't know boxin'. They're wide open, an' all you
gotta do is hit 'em. It ain't real fightin', you know." With a troubled,
boyish look in his eyes, he stared at his bruised knuckles. "An' I'll
have to drive team to-morrow with 'em," he lamented. "Which ain't fun,
I'm tellin' you, when they stiffen up."


CHAPTER V

At eight o'clock the Al Vista band played "Home, Sweet Home," and,
following the hurried rush through the twilight to the picnic train, the
four managed to get double seats facing each other. When the aisles and
platforms were packed by the hilarious crowd, the train pulled out for
the short run from the suburbs into Oakland. All the car was singing
a score of songs at once, and Bert, his head pillowed on Mary's breast
with her arms around him, started "On the Banks of the Wabash." And he
sang the song through, undeterred by the bedlam of two general fights,
one on the adjacent platform, the other at the opposite end of the car,
both of which were finally subdued by special policemen to the screams
of women and the crash of glass.

Billy sang a lugubrious song of many stanzas about a cowboy, the refrain
of which was, "Bury me out on the lone pr-rairie."

"That's one you never heard before; my father used to sing it," he told
Saxon, who was glad that it was ended.

She had discovered the first flaw in him. He was tonedeaf. Not once had
he been on the key.

"I don't sing often," he added.

"You bet your sweet life he don't," Bert exclaimed. "His friends'd kill
him if he did."

"They all make fun of my singin'," he complained to Saxon. "Honest, now,
do you find it as rotten as all that?"

"It's... it's maybe flat a bit," she admitted reluctantly.

"It don't sound flat to me," he protested. "It's a regular josh on me.
I'll bet Bert put you up to it. You sing something now, Saxon. I bet you
sing good. I can tell it from lookin' at you."

She began "When the Harvest Days Are Over." Bert and Mary joined in; but
when Billy attempted to add his voice he was dissuaded by a shin-kick
from Bert. Saxon sang in a clear, true soprano, thin but sweet, and she
was aware that she was singing to Billy.

"Now THAT is singing what is," he proclaimed, when she had finished.
"Sing it again. Aw, go on. You do it just right. It's great."

His hand slipped to hers and gathered it in, and as she sang again she
felt the tide of his strength flood warmingly through her.

"Look at 'em holdin' hands," Bert jeered. "Just a-holdin' hands
like they was afraid. Look at Mary an' me. Come on an' kick in, you
cold-feets. Get together. If you don't, it'll look suspicious. I got my
suspicions already. You're framin' somethin' up."

There was no mistaking his innuendo, and Saxon felt her cheeks flaming.

"Get onto yourself, Bert," Billy reproved.

"Shut up!" Mary added the weight of her indignation. "You're
awfully raw, Bert Wanhope, an' I won't have anything more to do with
you--there!"

She withdrew her arms and shoved him away, only to receive him
forgivingly half a dozen seconds afterward.

 "Come on, the four of us," Bert went on irrepressibly. "The
night's young. Let's make a time of it--Pabst's Cafe first, and then
some. What you say, Bill? What you say, Saxon? Mary's game."

Saxon waited and wondered, half sick with apprehension of this man
beside her whom she had known so short a time.

"Nope," he said slowly. "I gotta get up to a hard day's work to-morrow,
and I guess the girls has got to, too."

Saxon forgave him his tone-deafness. Here was the kind of man she always
had known existed. It was for some such man that she had waited. She was
twenty-two, and her first marriage offer had come when she was sixteen.
The last had occurred only the month before, from the foreman of the
washing-room, and he had been good and kind, but not young. But this
one beside her--he was strong and kind and good, and YOUNG. She was too
young herself not to desire youth. There would have been rest from fancy
starch with the foreman, but there would have been no warmth. But this
man beside her.... She caught herself on the verge involuntarily of
pressing his hand that held hers.

"No, Bert, don't tease he's right," Mary was saying. "We've got to get
some sleep. It's fancy starch to-morrow, and all day on our feet."

It came to Saxon with a chill pang that she was surely older than Billy.
She stole glances at the smoothness of his face, and the essential
boyishness of him, so much desired, shocked her. Of course he would
marry some girl years younger than himself, than herself. How old was
he? Could it be that he was too young for her? As he seemed to grow
inaccessible, she was drawn toward him more compellingly. He was so
strong, so gentle. She lived over the events of the day. There was no
flaw there. He had considered her and Mary, always. And he had torn
the program up and danced only with her. Surely he had liked her, or he
would not have done it.

She slightly moved her hand in his and felt the harsh contact of his
teamster callouses. The sensation was exquisite. He, too, moved his
hand, to accommodate the shift of hers, and she waited fearfully. She
did not want him to prove like other men, and she could have hated him
had he dared to take advantage of that slight movement of her fingers
and put his arm around her. He did not, and she flamed toward him.
There was fineness in him. He was neither rattle-brained, like Bert, nor
coarse like other men she had encountered. For she had had experiences,
not nice, and she had been made to suffer by the lack of what was termed
chivalry, though she, in turn, lacked that word to describe what she
divined and desired.

And he was a prizefighter. The thought of it almost made her gasp. Yet
he answered not at all to her conception of a prizefighter. But, then,
he wasn't a prizefighter. He had said he was not. She resolved to ask
him about it some time if... if he took her out again. Yet there was
little doubt of that, for when a man danced with one girl a whole day
he did not drop her immediately. Almost she hoped that he was a
prizefighter. There was a delicious tickle of wickedness about it.
Prizefighters were such terrible and mysterious men. In so far as they
were out of the ordinary and were not mere common workingmen such as
carpenters and laundrymen, they represented romance. Power also they
represented. They did not work for bosses, but spectacularly and
magnificently, with their own might, grappled with the great world and
wrung splendid living from its reluctant hands. Some of them even
owned automobiles and traveled with a retinue of trainers and servants.
Perhaps it had been only Billy's modesty that made him say he had quit
fighting. And yet, there were the callouses on his hands. That showed he
had quit.


CHAPTER VI

They said good-bye at the gate. Billy betrayed awkwardness that was
sweet to Saxon. He was not one of the take-it-for-granted young men.
There was a pause, while she feigned desire to go into the house, yet
waited in secret eagerness for the words she wanted him to say.

"When am I goin' to see you again?" he asked, holding her hand in his.

She laughed consentingly.

"I live 'way up in East Oakland," he explained. "You know there's where
the stable is, an' most of our teaming is done in that section, so I
don't knock around down this way much. But, say--" His hand tightened
on hers. "We just gotta dance together some more. I'll tell you, the
Orindore Club has its dance Wednesday. If you haven't a date--have you?"

"No," she said.

"Then Wednesday. What time'll I come for you?"

And when they had arranged the details, and he had agreed that she
should dance some of the dances with the other fellows, and said good
night again, his hand closed more tightly on hers and drew her toward
him. She resisted slightly, but honestly. It was the custom, but she
felt she ought not for fear he might misunderstand. And yet she wanted
to kiss him as she had never wanted to kiss a man. When it came, her
face upturned to his, she realized that on his part it was an honest
kiss. There hinted nothing behind it. Rugged and kind as himself, it
was virginal almost, and betrayed no long practice in the art of saying
good-bye. All men were not brutes after all, was her thought.

"Good night," she murmured; the gate screeched under her hand; and
she hurried along the narrow walk that led around to the corner of the
house.

"Wednesday," he celled softly.

"Wednesday," she answered.

But in the shadow of the narrow alley between the two houses she stood
still and pleasured in the ring of his foot falls down the cement
sidewalk. Not until they had quite died away did she go on. She crept
up the back stairs and across the kitchen to her room, registering her
thanksgiving that Sarah was asleep.

She lighted the gas, and, as she removed the little velvet hat, she felt
her lips still tingling with the kiss. Yet it had meant nothing. It was
the way of the young men. They all did it. But their good-night kisses
had never tingled, while this one tingled in her brain as wall as on her
lip. What was it? What did it mean? With a sudden impulse she looked
at herself in the glass. The eyes were happy and bright. The color that
tinted her cheeks so easily was in them and glowing. It was a pretty
reflection, and she smiled, partly in joy, partly in appreciation, and
the smile grew at sight of the even rows of strong white teeth. Why
shouldn't Billy like that face? was her unvoiced query. Other men had
liked it. Other men did like it. Even the other girls admitted she was
a good-looker. Charley Long certainly liked it from the way he made life
miserable for her.

She glanced aside to the rim of the looking-glass where his photograph
was wedged, shuddered, and made a moue of distaste. There was cruelty
in those eyes, and brutishness. He was a brute. For a year, now, he had
bullied her. Other fellows were afraid to go with her. He warned them
off. She had been forced into almost slavery to his attentions. She
remembered the young bookkeeper at the laundry--not a workingman, but
a soft-handed, soft-voiced gentleman--whom Charley had beaten up at
the corner because he had been bold enough to come to take her to the
theater. And she had been helpless. For his own sake she had never dared
accept another invitation to go out with him.

And now, Wednesday night, she was going with Billy. Billy! Her heart
leaped. There would be trouble, but Billy would save her from him. She'd
like to see him try and beat Billy up.

With a quick movement, she jerked the photograph from its niche and
threw it face down upon the chest of drawers. It fell beside a small
square case of dark and tarnished leather. With a feeling as of
profanation she again seized the offending photograph and flung it
across the room into a corner. At the same time she picked up the
leather case. Springing it open, she gazed at the daguerreotype of a
worn little woman with steady gray eyes and a hopeful, pathetic mouth.
Opposite, on the velvet lining, done in gold lettering, was, CARLTON
FROM DAISY. She read it reverently, for it represented the father she
had never known, and the mother she had so little known, though she
could never forget that those wise sad eyes were gray.

Despite lack of conventional religion, Saxon's nature was deeply
religious. Her thoughts of God were vague and nebulous, and there
she was frankly puzzled. She could not vision God. Here, in the
daguerreotype, was the concrete; much she had grasped from it, and
always there seemed an infinite more to grasp. She did not go to church.
This was her high altar and holy of holies. She came to it in trouble,
in loneliness, for counsel, divination, end comfort. In so far as she
found herself different from the girls of her acquaintance, she quested
here to try to identify her characteristics in the pictured face. Her
mother had been different from other women, too. This, forsooth, meant
to her what God meant to others. To this she strove to be true, and not
to hurt nor vex. And how little she really knew of her mother, and of
how much was conjecture and surmise, she was unaware; for it was through
many years she had erected this mother-myth.

Yet was it all myth? She resented the doubt with quick jealousy, and,
opening the bottom drawer of the chest, drew forth a battered portfolio.
Out rolled manuscripts, faded and worn, and arose a faint far scent of
sweet-kept age. The writing was delicate and curled, with the quaint
fineness of half a century before. She read a stanza to herself:

"Sweet as a wind-lute's airy strains Your gentle muse has learned to
sing, And California's boundless plains Prolong the soft notes echoing."

She wondered, for the thousandth time, what a windlute was; yet much
of beauty, much of beyondness, she sensed of this dimly remembered
beautiful mother of hers. She communed a while, then unrolled a second
manuscript. "To C. B.," it read. To Carlton Brown, she knew, to her
father, a love-poem from her mother. Saxon pondered the opening lines:

"I have stolen away from the crowd in the groves, Where the nude statues
stand, and the leaves point and shiver At ivy-crowned Bacchus, the Queen
of the Loves, Pandora and Psyche, struck voiceless forever."

This, too, was beyond her. But she breathed the beauty of it. Bacchus,
and Pandora and Psyche--talismans to conjure with! But alas! the
necromancy was her mother's. Strange, meaningless words that meant so
much! Her marvelous mother had known their meaning. Saxon spelled
the three words aloud, letter by letter, for she did not dare their
pronunciation; and in her consciousness glimmered august connotations,
profound and unthinkable. Her mind stumbled and halted on the
star-bright and dazzling boundaries of a world beyond her world in which
her mother had roamed at will. Again and again, solemnly, she went over
the four lines. They were radiance and light to the world, haunted with
phantoms of pain and unrest, in which she had her being. There, hidden
among those cryptic singing lines, was the clue. If she could only grasp
it, all would be made clear. Of this she was sublimely confident. She
would understand Sarah's sharp tongue, her unhappy brother, the cruelty
of Charley Long, the justness of the bookkeeper's beating, the day-long,
month-long, year-long toil at the ironing-board.

She skipped a stanza that she knew was hopelessly beyond her, and tried
again:

     "The dusk of the greenhouse is luminous yet
     With quivers of opal and tremors of gold;
     For the sun is at rest, and the light from the west,
     Like delicate wine that is mellow and old,

"Flushes faintly the brow of a naiad that stands In the spray of a
fountain, whose seed-amethysts Tremble lightly a moment on bosom and
hands, Then dip in their basin from bosom and wrists."

"It's beautiful, just beautiful," she sighed. And then, appalled at the
length of all the poem, at the volume of the mystery, she rolled the
manuscript and put it away. Again she dipped in the drawer, seeking the
clue among the cherished fragments of her mother's hidden soul.

This time it was a small package, wrapped in tissue paper and tied with
ribbon. She opened it carefully, with the deep gravity and circumstance
of a priest before an altar. Appeared a little red-satin Spanish
girdle, whale-boned like a tiny corset, pointed, the pioneer finery of
a frontier woman who had crossed the plains. It was hand-made after the
California-Spanish model of forgotten days. The very whalebone had been
home-shaped of the raw material from the whaleships traded for in hides
and tallow. The black lace trimming her mother had made. The triple
edging of black velvet strips--her mother's hands had sewn the stitches.

Saxon dreamed over it in a maze of incoherent thought. This was
concrete. This she understood. This she worshiped as man-created gods
have been worshiped on less tangible evidence of their sojourn on earth.

Twenty-two inches it measured around. She knew it out of many
verifications. She stood up and put it about her waist. This was part of
the ritual. It almost met. In places it did meet. Without her dress it
would meet everywhere as it had met on her mother. Closest of all, this
survival of old California-Ventura days brought Saxon in touch. Hers was
her mother's form. Physically, she was like her mother. Her grit, her
ability to turn off work that was such an amazement to others, were
her mother's. Just so had her mother been an amazement to her
generation--her mother, the toy-like creature, the smallest and the
youngest of the strapping pioneer brood, who nevertheless had mothered
the brood. Always it had been her wisdom that was sought, even by the
brothers and sisters a dozen years her senior. Daisy, it was, who
had put her tiny foot down and commanded the removal from the fever
flatlands of Colusa to the healthy mountains of Ventura; who had backed
the savage old Indian-fighter of a father into a corner and fought the
entire family that Vila might marry the man of her choice; who had flown
in the face of the family and of community morality and demanded the
divorce of Laura from her criminally weak husband; and who on the
other hand, had held the branches of the family together when only
misunderstanding and weak humanness threatened to drive them apart.

The peacemaker and the warrior! All the old tales trooped before Saxon's
eyes. They were sharp with detail, for she had visioned them many times,
though their content was of things she had never seen. So far as details
were concerned, they were her own creation, for she had never seen an
ox, a wild Indian, nor a prairie schooner. Yet, palpitating and real,
shimmering in the sun-flashed dust of ten thousand hoofs, she saw
pass, from East to West, across a continent, the great hegira of the
land-hungry Anglo-Saxon. It was part and fiber of her. She had been
nursed on its traditions and its facts from the lips of those who had
taken part. Clearly she saw the long wagon-train, the lean, gaunt men
who walked before, the youths goading the lowing oxen that fell and
were goaded to their feet to fall again. And through it all, a flying
shuttle, weaving the golden dazzling thread of personality, moved the
form of her little, indomitable mother, eight years old, and nine ere
the great traverse was ended, a necromancer and a law-giver, willing her
way, and the way and the willing always good and right.

Saxon saw Punch, the little, rough-coated Skye-terrier with the honest
eyes (who had plodded for weary months), gone lame and abandoned; she
saw Daisy, the chit of a child, hide Punch in the wagon. She saw the
savage old worried father discover the added burden of the several
pounds to the dying oxen. She saw his wrath, as he held Punch by
the scruff of the neck. And she saw Daisy, between the muzzle of the
long-barreled rifle and the little dog. And she saw Daisy thereafter,
through days of alkali and heat, walking, stumbling, in the dust of the
wagons, the little sick dog, like a baby, in her arms.

But most vivid of all, Saxon saw the fight at Little Meadow--and Daisy,
dressed as for a gala day, in white, a ribbon sash about her waist,
ribbons and a round-comb in her hair, in her hands small water-pails,
step forth into the sunshine on the flower-grown open ground from the
wagon circle, wheels interlocked, where the wounded screamed their
delirium and babbled of flowing fountains, and go on, through the
sunshine and the wonder-inhibition of the bullet-dealing Indians, a
hundred yards to the waterhole and back again.

Saxon kissed the little, red satin Spanish girdle passionately, and
wrapped it up in haste, with dewy eyes, abandoning the mystery and
godhead of mother and all the strange enigma of living.

In bed, she projected against her closed eyelids the few rich scenes of
her mother that her child-memory retained. It was her favorite way
of wooing sleep. She had done it all her life--sunk into the
death-blackness of sleep with her mother limned to the last on her
fading consciousness. But this mother was not the Daisy of the plains
nor of the daguerreotype. They had been before Saxon's time. This that
she saw nightly was an older mother, broken with insomnia and brave
with sorrow, who crept, always crept, a pale, frail creature, gentle
and unfaltering, dying from lack of sleep, living by will, and by will
refraining from going mad, who, nevertheless, could not will sleep, and
whom not even the whole tribe of doctors could make sleep. Crept--always
she crept, about the house, from weary bed to weary chair and back again
through long days and weeks of torment, never complaining, though her
unfailing smile was twisted with pain, and the wise gray eyes, still
wise and gray, were grown unutterably larger and profoundly deep.

[ENTER CLERIMONT, FOLLOWED BY A NUMBER OF MUSICIANS.]
CLER: By your leave, ladies. Do you want any music? I have brought you
variety of noises. Play, sirs, all of you.

[ASIDE TO THE MUSICIANS, WHO STRIKE UP ALL TOGETHER.]

MOR: O, a plot, a plot, a plot, a plot, upon me!

this day I shall be their anvil to work on, they will grate me
asunder. 'Tis worse then the noise of a saw.

CLER: No, they are hair, rosin, and guts. I can give you the
receipt.

TRUE: Peace, boys!

CLER: Play! I say.

TRUE: Peace, rascals!

You see who's your friend now, sir: take courage, put on a martyr's
resolution. Mock down all their attemptings with patience: 'tis
but a day, and I would suffer heroically.

Should an ass exceed me in fortitude? no.

You betray your infirmity with your hanging dull ears, and make
them insult:
bear up bravely, and constantly.

[LA-FOOLE PASSES OVER THE STAGE AS A SEWER, FOLLOWED BY SERVANTS
CARRYING DISHES, AND MISTRESS OTTER.]

--Look you here, sir, what honour is done you unexpected, by your
nephew; a wedding-dinner come, and a knight-sewer before it, for
the more reputation: and fine mistress Otter, your neighbour, in
the rump, or tail of it.

MOR: Is that Gorgon, that Medusa come! hide me, hide me.

TRUE: I warrant you, sir, she will not transform you. Look upon her with
a good courage. Pray you entertain her, and conduct your guests in.
No!--Mistress bride, will you entreat in the ladies?
your bride-groom is so shame-faced, here.

EPI: Will it please your ladyship, madam?

HAU: With the benefit of your company, mistress.

EPI: Servant, pray you perform your duties.

DAW: And glad to be commanded, mistress.

CEN: How like you her wit, Mavis?

MAV: Very prettily, absolutely well.

MRS. OTT: 'Tis my place.

MAV: You shall pardon me, mistress Otter.

MRS. OTT: Why, I am a collegiate.

MAV: But not in ordinary.

MRS. OTT: But I am.

MAV: We'll dispute that within.

[EXEUNT LADIES.]
CLER: Would this had lasted a little longer.

TRUE: And that they had sent for the heralds.
[ENTER CAPTAIN OTTER.] --Captain Otter! what news?

OTT: I have brought my bull, bear, and horse, in private, and
yonder are the trumpeters without, and the drum, gentlemen.

[THE DRUM AND TRUMPETS SOUND WITHIN.]
MOR: O, O, O!

OTT: And we will have a rouse in each of them, anon, for bold Britons,
i'faith.

[THEY SOUND AGAIN.]
MOR: O, O, O!
[EXIT HASTILY.]
OMNES: Follow, follow, follow!

ACT 4. SCENE 4.1.

A ROOM IN MOROSE'S HOUSE.

ENTER TRUEWIT AND CLERIMONT.

TRUE: Was there ever poor bridegroom so tormented? or man, indeed?

CLER: I have not read of the like in the chronicles of the land.

TRUE: Sure, he cannot but go to a place of rest, after all this
purgatory.

CLER: He may presume it, I think.

TRUE: The spitting, the coughing, the laughter, the neezing, the
farting, dancing, noise of the music, and her masculine and loud
commanding, and urging the whole family, makes him think he has married
a fury.

CLER: And she carries it up bravely.

TRUE: Ay, she takes any occasion to speak: that is the height on't.

CLER: And how soberly Dauphine labours to satisfy him, that it was none
of his plot!

TRUE: And has almost brought him to the faith, in the article.
Here he comes.

[ENTER SIR DAUPHINE.] --Where is he now? what's become of him,
Dauphine?

DAUP: O, hold me up a little, I shall go away in the jest else.

He has got on his whole nest of night-caps, and lock'd himself up
in the top of the house, as high as ever he can climb from the noise.

I peep'd in at a cranny, and saw him sitting over a cross-beam of
the roof, like him on the sadler's horse in Fleet-street, upright:
and he will sleep there.

CLER: But where are your collegiates?

DAUP: Withdrawn with the bride in private.

TRUE: O, they are instructing her in the college-grammar.

If she have grace with them, she knows all their secrets instantly.

CLER: Methinks the lady Haughty looks well to-day, for all my
dispraise of her in the morning.

I think, I shall come about to thee again, Truewit.

TRUE: Believe it, I told you right.

Women ought to repair the losses time and years have made in their
features, with dressings.

And an intelligent woman, if she know by herself the least defect, will
be most curious to hide it: and it becomes her. If she be short, let
her sit much, lest, when she stands, she be thought to sit. If she have
an ill foot, let her wear her gown the longer, and her shoe the
thinner.

If a fat hand, and scald nails, let her carve the less, and act in
gloves. If a sour breath, let her never discourse fasting, and always
talk at her distance. If she have black and rugged teeth, let her
offer the less at laughter, especially if she laugh wide and open.

CLER: O, you shall have some women, when they laugh, you would think
they brayed, it is so rude, and--
TRUE: Ay, and others, that will stalk in their gait like an estrich, and
take huge strides. I cannot endure such a sight. I love measure in the
feet, and number in the voice: they are gentlenesses, that oftentimes
draw no less than the face.

DAUP: How camest thou to study these creatures so exactly? I would thou
would'st make me a proficient.

TRUE: Yes, but you must leave to live in your chamber, then, a month
together upon Amadis de Gaul, or Don Quixote, as you are wont; and
come abroad where the matter is frequent, to court, to tiltings,
public shows and feasts, to plays, and church sometimes:
thither they come to shew their new tires too, to see, and to be
seen.

In these places a man shall find whom to love, whom to play with, whom
to touch once, whom to hold ever. The variety arrests his judgment. A
wench to please a man comes not down dropping from the ceiling,
as he lies on his back droning a tobacco pipe.

He must go where she is.

DAUP: Yes, and be never the nearer.

TRUE: Out, heretic!

That diffidence makes thee worthy it should be so.

CLER: He says true to you, Dauphine.

DAUP: Why?

TRUE: A man should not doubt to overcome any woman. Think he can
vanquish them, and he shall: for though they deny, their desire is to
be tempted. Penelope herself cannot hold out long. Ostend, you saw,
was taken at last. You must persever, and hold to your purpose. They
would solicit us, but that they are afraid.

Howsoever, they wish in their hearts we should solicit them.
Praise them, flatter them, you shall never want eloquence or trust:
even the chastest delight to feel themselves that way rubb'd.

With praises you must mix kisses too: if they take them, they'll take
more--though they strive, they would be overcome.

CLER: O, but a man must beware of force.

TRUE: It is to them an acceptable violence, and has oft-times the place
of the greatest courtesy.

She that might have been forced, and you let her go free without
touching, though then she seem to thank you, will ever hate you
after; and glad in the face, is assuredly sad at the heart.

CLER: But all women are not to be taken all ways.

TRUE: 'Tis true; no more than all birds, or all fishes. If you appear
learned to an ignorant wench, or jocund to a sad, or witty to a
foolish, why she presently begins to mistrust herself.

You must approach them in their own height, their own line: for the
contrary makes many, that fear to commit themselves to noble and
worthy fellows, run into the embraces of a rascal.

If she love wit, give verses, though you borrow them of a friend, or buy
them, to have good. If valour, talk of your sword, and be frequent
in the mention of quarrels, though you be staunch in fighting. If activity,
be seen on your barbary often, or leaping over stools, for the
credit of your back.

If she love good clothes or dressing, have your learned council
about you every morning, your French tailor, barber, linener, etc.

Let your powder, your glass, and your comb be your dearest acquaintance.
Take more care for the ornament of your head, than the safety: and
wish the commonwealth rather troubled, than a hair about you.

That will take her.

Then, if she be covetous and craving, do you promise any thing, and
perform sparingly; so shall you keep her in appetite still.

Seem as you would give, but be like a barren field, that yields
little, or unlucky dice to foolish and hoping gamesters.

Let your gifts be slight and dainty, rather than precious.

Let cunning be above cost. Give cherries at time of year, or apricots;
and say they were sent you out of the country, though you bought
them in Cheapside.

Admire her tires: like her in all fashions; compare her in every habit
to some deity; invent excellent dreams to flatter her, and riddles;
or, if she be a great one, perform always the second parts to her:
like what she likes, praise whom she praises, and fail not to make
the household and servants yours, yea the whole family, and salute
them by their names: ('tis but light cost if you can purchase them
so,) and make her physician your pensioner, and her chief woman.

Nor will it be out of your gain to make love to her too, so she
follow, not usher her lady's pleasure.

All blabbing is taken away, when she comes to be a part of the
crime.

DAUP: On what courtly lap hast thou late slept, to come forth so
sudden and absolute a courtling?

TRUE: Good faith, I should rather question you, that are so harkening
after these mysteries.

I begin to suspect your diligence, Dauphine. Speak, art thou in love
in earnest?

DAUP: Yes, by my troth am I: 'twere ill dissembling before thee.

TRUE: With which of them, I prithee?

DAUP: With all the collegiates.

CLER: Out on thee! We'll keep you at home, believe it, in the stable,
if you be such a stallion.

TRUE: No; I like him well. Men should love wisely, and all women; some
one for the face, and let her please the eye; another for the skin, and
let her please the touch; a third for the voice, and let her please
the ear; and where the objects mix, let the senses so too. Thou
would'st think it strange, if I should make them all in love with thee
afore night!

DAUP: I would say, thou had'st the best philtre in the world, and couldst
do more than madam Medea, or doctor Foreman.

TRUE: If I do not, let me play the mountebank for my meat, while I
live, and the bawd for my drink.

DAUP: So be it, I say.

[ENTER OTTER, WITH HIS THREE CUPS, DAW, AND LA-FOOLE.]
OTT: O Lord, gentlemen, how my knights and I have mist you here!

CLER: Why, captain, what service? what service?

OTT: To see me bring up my bull, bear, and horse to fight.

DAW: Yes, faith, the captain says we shall be his dogs to bait them.

DAUP: A good employment.

TRUE: Come on, let's see a course, then.

LA-F: I am afraid my cousin will be offended, if she come.

OTT: Be afraid of nothing. Gentlemen, I have placed the drum and the
trumpets, and one to give them the sign when you are ready.
Here's my bull for myself, and my bear for sir John Daw, and my
horse for sir Amorous.

Now set your foot to mine, and yours to his, and--

LA-F: Pray God my cousin come not.

OTT: Saint George, and saint Andrew, fear no cousins. Come, sound,
sound.

[DRUM AND TRUMPETS SOUND.]

Et rauco strepuerunt cornua cantu.

[THEY DRINK.]
TRUE: Well said, captain, i'faith: well fought at the bull.

CLER: Well held at the bear.

TRUE: Low, low! captain.

DAUP: O, the horse has kick'd off his dog already.

LA-F: I cannot drink it, as I am a knight.

TRUE: Ods so! off with his spurs, somebody.

LA-F: It goes against my conscience.

My cousin will be angry with it.

DAW: I have done mine.

TRUE: You fought high and fair, sir John.

CLER: At the head.

DAUP: Like an excellent bear-dog.

CLER: You take no notice of the business, I hope?

DAW: Not a word, sir; you see we are jovial.

OTT: Sir Amorous, you must not equivocate.

It must be pull'd down, for all my cousin.

CLER: 'Sfoot, if you take not your drink, they will think you are
discontented with something: you'll betray all, if you take the least
notice.

LA-F: Not I; I'll both drink and talk then.

OTT: You must pull the horse on his knees, sir Amorous: fear no cousins.
Jacta est alea.

TRUE: O, now he's in his vein, and bold.

The least hint given him of his wife now, will make him rail
desperately.

CLER: Speak to him of her.

TRUE: Do you, and I will fetch her to the hearing of it.

[EXIT.]

DAUP: Captain He-Otter, your She-Otter is coming, your wife.

OTT: Wife! buz! titivilitium! There's no such thing in nature.
I confess, gentlemen, I have a cook, a laundress, a house-drudge,
that serves my necessary turns, and goes under that title: but he's
an ass that will be so uxorious to tie his affections to one circle.

Come, the name dulls appetite. Here, replenish again:
another bout.

[FILLS THE CUPS AGAIN.]

Wives are nasty sluttish animalls.

DAUP: O, captain.

OTT: As ever the earth bare, tribus verbis. Where's master Truewit?

DAW: He's slipt aside, sir.

CLER: But you must drink, and be jovial.

DAW: Yes, give it me.

LA-F: And me too.

DAW: Let's be jovial.

LA-F: As jovial as you will.

OTT: Agreed. Now you shall have the bear, cousin, and sir John Daw the
horse, and I will have the bull still.

Sound, Tritons of the Thames.
[DRUM AND TRUMPETS SOUND AGAIN.] Nunc est bibendum, nunc pede libero--

MOR [ABOVE]: Villains, murderers, sons of the earth, and traitors, what
do you there?

CLER: O, now the trumpets have waked him, we shall have his company.

OTT: A wife is a scurvy clogdogdo, an unlucky thing, a very foresaid
bear-whelp, without any good fashion or breeding: mala bestia.

[RE-ENTER TRUEWIT BEHIND, WITH MISTRESS OTTER.]
DAUP: Why did you marry one then, captain?

OTT: A pox!--I married with six thousand pound, I. I was in love with
that. I have not kissed my Fury these forty weeks.

CLER: The more to blame you, captain.

TRUE: Nay, mistress Otter, hear him a little first.

OTT: She has a breath worse than my grandmother's, profecto.

MRS. OTT: O treacherous liar! kiss me, sweet master Truewit, and prove
him a slandering knave.

TRUE: I will rather believe you, lady.

OTT: And she has a peruke that's like a pound of hemp, made up in
shoe-threads.

MRS. OTT: O viper, mandrake!

OTT: A most vile face! and yet she spends me forty pound a year in mercury
and hogs-bones. All her teeth were made in the Black-Friars, both her
eyebrows in the Strand, and her hair in Silver-street. Every part of the
town owns a piece of her.

MRS. OTT [COMES FORWARD.]: I cannot hold.

OTT: She takes herself asunder still when she goes to bed, into some
twenty boxes; and about next day noon is put together again, like a
great German clock: and so comes forth, and rings a tedious larum to
the whole house, and then is quiet again for an hour, but for her
quarters. Have you done me right, gentlemen?

MRS. OTT [FALLS UPON HIM, AND BEATS HIM.]: No, sir, I will do you
right with my quarters, with my quarters.

OTT: O, hold, good princess.

TRUE: Sound, sound!

[DRUM AND TRUMPETS SOUND.]
CLER: A battle, a battle!

MRS. OTT: You notorious stinkardly bearward, does my breath smell?

OTT: Under correction, dear princess: look to my bear, and my horse,
gentlemen.

MRS.

OTT: Do I want teeth, and eyebrows, thou bull-dog?

TRUE: Sound, sound still.

[THEY SOUND AGAIN.]
OTT: No, I protest, under correction--
MRS. OTT: Ay, now you are under correction, you protest: but you
did not protest before correction, sir. Thou Judas, to offer to
betray thy princess! I will make thee an example-- [BEATS HIM.]
[ENTER MOROSE WITH HIS LONG SWORD.]
MOR: I will have no such examples in my house, lady Otter.
MRS. OTT: Ah!-- 
[MRS. OTTER, DAW, AND LA-FOOLE RUN OFF.]
OTT: Mistress Mary Ambree, your examples are dangerous. Rogues,
hell-hounds, Stentors! out of my doors, you sons of noise and tumult,
begot on an ill May-day, or when the galley-foist is afloat to
Westminster!
[DRIVES OUT THE MUSICIANS.] A trumpeter could not be conceived but
then!

DAUP: What ails you, sir?
MOR: They have rent my roof, walls, and all my windows asunder,
with their brazen throats.
[EXIT.]
TRUE: Best follow him, Dauphine.

DAUP: So I will.
[EXIT.]
CLER: Where's Daw and La-Foole?
OTT: They are both run away, sir. Good gentlemen, help to pacify
my princess, and speak to the great ladies for me. Now must I go
lie with the bears this fortnight, and keep out of the way, till
my peace be made, for this scandal she has taken. Did you not see
my bull-head, gentlemen?

CLER: Is't not on, captain?
TRUE: No; but he may make a new one, by that is on.
OTT: O, here it is. An you come over, gentlemen, and ask for Tom
Otter, we'll go down to Ratcliff, and have a course i'faith, for
all these disasters. There is bona spes left.
TRUE: Away, captain, get off while you are well.
[EXIT OTTER.] 
CLER: I am glad we are rid of him.
TRUE: You had never been, unless we had put his wife upon him.
His humour is as tedious at last, as it was ridiculous at
first.

[EXEUNT.] 
SCENE 4.2.

A LONG OPEN GALLERY IN THE SAME.
ENTER LADY HAUGHTY, MISTRESS OTTER, MAVIS, DAW, LAFOOLE, CENTAURE,
AND EPICOENE.
HAU: We wonder'd why you shriek'd so, mistress Otter?
MRS. OTT: O lord, madam, he came down with a huge long naked weapon
in both his hands, and look'd so dreadfully! sure he's beside
himself.

HAU: Why, what made you there, mistress Otter?
MRS. OTT: Alas, mistress Mavis, I was chastising my subject, and
thought nothing of him.
DAW: Faith, mistress, you must do so too: learn to chastise.
Mistress Otter corrects her husband so, he dares not speak but under
correction.
LA-F: And with his hat off to her: 'twould do you good to see.
HAU: In sadness, 'tis good and mature counsel: practise it, Morose.
I'll call you Morose still now, as I call Centaure and Mavis; we
four will be all one.
CEN: And you will come to the college, and live with us?
HAU: Make him give milk and honey.
MAV: Look how you manage him at first, you shall have him ever
after.
CEN: Let him allow you your coach, and four horses, your woman,
your chamber-maid, your page, your gentleman-usher, your French
cook, and four grooms.
HAU: And go with us to Bedlam, to the china-houses, and to the
Exchange.

CEN: It will open the gate to your fame.
HAU: Here's Centaure has immortalised herself, with taming of her
wild male.

MAV: Ay, she has done the miracle of the kingdom.
[ENTER CLERIMONT AND TRUEWIT.]
EPI: But, ladies, do you count it lawful to have such plurality of
servants, and do them all graces?
HAU: Why not? why should women deny their favours to men? are they
the poorer or the worse?
DAW: Is the Thames the less for the dyer's water, mistress?
LA-F: Or a torch for lighting many torches?
TRUE: Well said, La-Foole; what a new one he has got!
CEN: They are empty losses women fear in this kind.
HAU: Besides, ladies should be mindful of the approach of age, and
let no time want his due use. The best of our days pass first.
MAV: We are rivers, that cannot be call'd back, madam: she that now
excludes her lovers, may live to lie a forsaken beldame, in a frozen
bed.
CEN: 'Tis true, Mavis: and who will wait on us to coach then?
or write, or tell us the news then, make anagrams of our names, and
invite us to the Cockpit, and kiss our hands all the play-time, and
draw their weapons for our honours?

HAU: Not one.
DAW: Nay, my mistress is not altogether unintelligent of these
things; here be in presence have tasted of her favours.
CLER: What a neighing hobby-horse is this!
EPI: But not with intent to boast them again, servant. And have you
those excellent receipts, madam, to keep yourselves from bearing
of children?
HAU: O yes, Morose: how should we maintain our youth and beauty
else? Many births of a woman make her old, as many crops make the
earth barren.

[ENTER MOROSE AND DAUPHINE.]
MOR: O my cursed angel, that instructed me to this fate!
DAUP: Why, sir?
MOR: That I should be seduced by so foolish a devil as a barber
will make!
DAUP: I would I had been worthy, sir, to have partaken your counsel;
you should never have trusted it to such a minister.
MOR: Would I could redeem it with the loss of an eye, nephew, a
hand, or any other member.
DAUP: Marry, God forbid, sir, that you should geld yourself, to
anger your wife.
MOR: So it would rid me of her! and, that I did supererogatory
penance in a belfry, at Westminster-hall, in the Cock-pit, at the
fall of a stag; the Tower-wharf (what place is there else?)--
London-bridge, Paris-garden, Billinsgate, when the noises are at
their height, and loudest. Nay, I would sit out a play, that were
nothing but fights at sea, drum, trumpet, and target.
DAUP: I hope there shall be no such need, sir. Take patience, good
uncle. This is but a day, and 'tis well worn too now.
MOR: O, 'twill be so for ever, nephew, I foresee it, for ever.
Strife and tumult are the dowry that comes with a wife.
TRUE: I told you so, sir, and you would not believe me.
MOR: Alas, do not rub those wounds, master Truewit, to blood
again:
'twas my negligence. Add not affliction to affliction. I have
perceived the effect of it, too late, in madam Otter.
EPI: How do you, sir?
MOR: Did you ever hear a more unnecessary question? as if she did
not see! Why, I do as you see, empress, empress.
EPI: You are not well, sir; you look very ill; something has
distemper'd you.
MOR: O horrible, monstrous impertinencies! would not one of these
have served, do you think, sir? would not one of these have
served?
TRUE: Yes, sir, but these are but notes of female kindness, sir;
certain tokens that she has a voice, sir.
MOR: O, is it so? Come, an't be no otherwise--What say you?
EPI: How do you feel yourself, sir?

MOR: Again that!
TRUE: Nay, look you, sir: you would be friends with your wife upon
unconscionable terms; her silence--
EPI: They say you are run mad, sir.
MOR: Not for love, I assure you, of you; do you see?
EPI: O lord, gentlemen! lay hold on him, for God's sake. What shall
I do? who's his physician, can you tell, that knows the state of
his body best, that I might send for him? Good sir, speak; I'll
send for one of my doctors else.
MOR: What, to poison me, that I might die intestate, and leave you
possest of all?"It does," he admitted frankly. "I'm glad I went into the game--just as
glad as I am that I pulled out of it.... Yep, it's taught me a lot--to
keep my eyes open an' my head cool. Oh, I've got a temper, a peach of a
temper. I get scared of myself sometimes. I used to be always breakin'
loose. But the fightin' taught me to keep down the steam an' not do
things I'd be sorry for afterward."

"Why, you're the sweetest, easiest tempered man I know," she
interjected.

"Don't you believe it. Just watch me, and sometime you'll see me break
out that bad that I won't know what I'm doin' myself. Oh, I'm a holy
terror when I get started!"

This tacit promise of continued acquaintance gave Saxon a little
joy-thrill.

"Say," he said, as they neared her neighborhood, "what are you doin'
next Sunday?"

"Nothing. No plans at all."

"Well, suppose you an' me go buggy-riding all day out in the hills?"

She did not answer immediately, and for the moment she was seeing the
nightmare vision of her last buggy-ride; of her fear and her leap from
the buggy; and of the long miles and the stumbling through the darkness
in thin-soled shoes that bruised her feet on every rock. And then it
came to her with a great swell of joy that this man beside her was not
such a man.

"I love horses," she said. "I almost love them better than I do dancing,
only I don't know anything about them. My father rode a great roan
war-horse. He was a captain of cavalry, you know. I never saw him, but
somehow I always can see him on that big horse, with a sash around his
waist and his sword at his side. My brother George has the sword now,
but Tom--he's the brother I live with says it is mine because it wasn't
his father's. You see, they're only my half-brothers. I was the only
child by my mother's second marriage. That was her real marriage--her
love-marriage, I mean."

Saxon ceased abruptly, embarrassed by her own garrulity; and yet the
impulse was strong to tell this young man all about herself, and it
seemed to her that these far memories were a large part of her.

"Go on an' tell me about it," Billy urged. "I like to hear about the old
people of the old days. My people was along in there, too, an' somehow
I think it was a better world to live in than now. Things was more
sensible and natural. I don't exactly say what I mean. But it's like
this: I don't understand life to-day. There's the labor unions an'
employers' associations, an' strikes', an' hard times, an' huntin'
for jobs, an' all the rest. Things wasn't like that in the old days.
Everybody farmed, an' shot their meat, an' got enough to eat, an'
took care of their old folks. But now it's all a mix-up that I can't
understand. Mebbe I'm a fool, I don't know. But, anyway, go ahead an'
tell us about your mother."

"Well, you see, when she was only a young woman she and Captain Brown
fell in love. He was a soldier then, before the war. And he was ordered
East for the war when she was away nursing her sister Laura. And then
came the news that he was killed at Shiloh. And she married a man who
had loved her for years and years. He was a boy in the same wagon-train
coming across the plains. She liked him, but she didn't love him. And
afterward came the news that my father wasn't killed after all. So it
made her very sad, but it did not spoil her life. She was a good mother
end a good wife and all that, but she was always sad, and sweet, and
gentle, and I think her voice was the most beautiful in the world."

"She was game, all right," Billy approved.

"And my father never married. He loved her all the time. I've got a
lovely poem home that she wrote to him. It's just wonderful, and it
sings like music. Well, long, long afterward her husband died, and then
she and my father made their love marriage. They didn't get married
until 1882, and she was pretty well along."

More she told him, as they stood by the gate, and Saxon tried to think
that the good-bye kiss was a trifle longer than just ordinary.

"How about nine o'clock?" he queried across the gate. "Don't bother
about lunch or anything. I'll fix all that up. You just be ready at
nine."


CHAPTER IX

Sunday morning Saxon was beforehand in getting ready, and on her
return to the kitchen from her second journey to peep through the front
windows, Sarah began her customary attack.

"It's a shame an' a disgrace the way some people can afford silk
stockings," she began. "Look at me, a-toilin' and a-stewin' day an'
night, and I never get silk stockings--nor shoes, three pairs of them
all at one time. But there's a just God in heaven, and there'll be some
mighty big surprises for some when the end comes and folks get passed
out what's comin' to them."

Tom, smoking his pipe and cuddling his youngest-born on his knees,
dropped an eyelid surreptitiously on his cheek in token that Sarah was
in a tantrum. Saxon devoted herself to tying a ribbon in the hair of one
of the little girls. Sarah lumbered heavily about the kitchen, washing
and putting away the breakfast dishes. She straightened her back from
the sink with a groan and glared at Saxon with fresh hostility.

"You ain't sayin' anything, eh? An' why don't you? Because I guess you
still got some natural shame in you a-runnin' with a prizefighter. Oh,
I've heard about your goings-on with Bill Roberts. A nice specimen he
is. But just you wait till Charley Long gets his hands on him, that's
all."

"Oh, I don't know," Tom intervened. "Bill Roberts is a pretty good boy
from what I hear."

Saxon smiled with superior knowledge, and Sarah, catching her, was
infuriated.

"Why don't you marry Charley Long? He's crazy for you, and he ain't a
drinkin' man."

"I guess he gets outside his share of beer," Saxon retorted.

"That's right," her brother supplemented. "An' I know for a fact that he
keeps a keg in the house all the time as well."

"Maybe you've been guzzling from it," Sarah snapped.

"Maybe I have," Tom said, wiping his mouth reminiscently with the back
of his hand.

"Well, he can afford to keep a keg in the house if he wants to," she
returned to the attack, which now was directed at her husband as well.
"He pays his bills, and he certainly makes good money--better than most
men, anyway."

"An' he hasn't a wife an' children to watch out for," Tom said.

"Nor everlastin' dues to unions that don't do him no good."

"Oh, yes, he has," Tom urged genially. "Blamed little he'd work in that
shop, or any other shop in Oakland, if he didn't keep in good standing
with the Blacksmiths. You don't understand labor conditions, Sarah. The
unions have got to stick, if the men aren't to starve to death."

"Oh, of course not," Sarah sniffed. "I don't understand anything.
I ain't got a mind. I'm a fool, an' you tell me so right before the
children." She turned savagely on her eldest, who startled and shrank
away. "Willie, your mother is a fool. Do you get that? Your father says
she's a fool--says it right before her face and yourn. She's just a
plain fool. Next he'll be sayin' she's crazy an' puttin' her away in
the asylum. An' how will you like that, Willie? How will you like to see
your mother in a straitjacket an' a padded cell, shut out from the light
of the sun an' beaten like a nigger before the war, Willie, beaten an'
clubbed like a regular black nigger? That's the kind of a father you've
got, Willie. Think of it, Willie, in a padded cell, the mother that
bore you, with the lunatics screechin' an' screamin' all around, an' the
quick-lime eatin' into the dead bodies of them that's beaten to death by
the cruel wardens--"

She continued tirelessly, painting with pessimistic strokes the growing
black future her husband was meditating for her, while the boy, fearful
of some vague, incomprehensible catastrophe, began to weep silently,
with a pendulous, trembling underlip. Saxon, for the moment, lost
control of herself.

"Oh, for heaven's sake, can't we be together five minutes without
quarreling?" she blazed.

Sarah broke off from asylum conjurations and turned upon her
sister-in-law.

"Who's quarreling? Can't I open my head without bein' jumped on by the
two of you?"

Saxon shrugged her shoulders despairingly, and Sarah swung about on her
husband.

"Seein' you love your sister so much better than your wife, why did you
want to marry me, that's borne your children for you, an' slaved for
you, an' toiled for you, an' worked her fingernails off for you, with
no thanks, an 'insultin' me before the children, an' sayin' I'm crazy
to their faces. An' what have you ever did for me? That's what I want to
know--me, that's cooked for you, an' washed your stinkin' clothes,
and fixed your socks, an' sat up nights with your brats when they was
ailin'. Look at that!"

She thrust out a shapeless, swollen foot, encased in a monstrous,
untended shoe, the dry, raw leather of which showed white on the edges
of bulging cracks.

"Look at that! That's what I say. Look at that!" Her voice was
persistently rising and at the same time growing throaty. "The only
shoes I got. Me. Your wife. Ain't you ashamed? Where are my three pairs?
Look at that stockin'."

Speech failed her, and she sat down suddenly on a chair at the table,
glaring unutterable malevolence and misery. She arose with the abrupt
stiffness of an automaton, poured herself a cup of cold coffee, and
in the same jerky way sat down again. As if too hot for her lips,
she filled her saucer with the greasy-looking, nondescript fluid, and
continued her set glare, her breast rising and falling with staccato,
mechanical movement.

"Now, Sarah, be c'am, be c'am," Tom pleaded anxiously.

In response, slowly, with utmost deliberation, as if the destiny of
empires rested on the certitude of her act, she turned the saucer of
coffee upside down on the table. She lifted her right hand, slowly,
hugely, and in the same slow, huge way landed the open palm with a
sounding slap on Tom's astounded cheek. Immediately thereafter she
raised her voice in the shrill, hoarse, monotonous madness of hysteria,
sat down on the floor, and rocked back and forth in the throes of an
abysmal grief.

Willie's silent weeping turned to noise, and the two little girls, with
the fresh ribbons in their hair, joined him. Tom's face was drawn and
white, though the smitten cheek still blazed, and Saxon wanted to put
her arms comfortingly around him, yet dared not. He bent over his wife.

"Sarah, you ain't feelin' well. Let me put you to bed, and I'll finish
tidying up."

"Don't touch me!--don't touch me!" she screamed, jerking violently away
from him.

"Take the children out in the yard, Tom, for a walk, anything--get them
away," Saxon said. She was sick, and white, and trembling. "Go, Tom,
please, please. There's your hat. I'll take care of her. I know just
how."

Left to herself, Saxon worked with frantic haste, assuming the calm she
did not possess, but which she must impart to the screaming bedlamite
upon the floor. The light frame house leaked the noise hideously, and
Saxon knew that the houses on either side were hearing, and the street
itself and the houses across the street. Her fear was that Billy should
arrive in the midst of it. Further, she was incensed, violated. Every
fiber rebelled, almost in a nausea; yet she maintained cool control and
stroked Sarah's forehead and hair with slow, soothing movements. Soon,
with one arm around her, she managed to win the first diminution in
the strident, atrocious, unceasing scream. A few minutes later, sobbing
heavily, the elder woman lay in bed, across her forehead and eyes a
wet-pack of towel for easement of the headache she and Saxon tacitly
accepted as substitute for the brain-storm.

When a clatter of hoofs came down the street and stopped, Saxon was able
to slip to the front door and wave her hand to Billy. In the kitchen she
found Tom waiting in sad anxiousness.

"It's all right," she said. "Billy Roberts has come, and I've got to go.
You go in and sit beside her for a while, and maybe she'll go to sleep.
But don't rush her. Let her have her own way. If she'll let you take her
hand, why do it. Try it, anyway. But first of all, as an opener and just
as a matter of course, start wetting the towel over her eyes."

He was a kindly, easy-going man; but, after the way of a large
percentage of the Western stock, he was undemonstrative. He nodded,
turned toward the door to obey, and paused irresolutely. The look he
gave back to Saxon was almost dog-like in gratitude and all-brotherly in
love. She felt it, and in spirit leapt toward it.

"It's all right--everything's all right," she cried hastily.

Tom shook his head.

"No, it ain't. It's a shame, a blamed shame, that's what it is." He
shrugged his shoulders. "Oh, I don't care for myself. But it's for you.
You got your life before you yet, little kid sister. You'll get old,
and all that means, fast enough. But it's a bad start for a day off.
The thing for you to do is to forget all this, and skin out with your
fellow, an' have a good time." In the open door, his hand on the knob
to close it after him, he halted a second time. A spasm contracted his
brow. "Hell! Think of it! Sarah and I used to go buggy-riding once on
a time. And I guess she had her three pairs of shoes, too. Can you beat
it?"

In her bedroom Saxon completed her dressing, for an instant stepping
upon a chair so as to glimpse critically in the small wall-mirror
the hang of her ready-made linen skirt. This, and the jacket, she had
altered to fit, and she had double-stitched the seams to achieve the
coveted tailored effect. Still on the chair, all in the moment of quick
clear-seeing, she drew the skirt tightly back and raised it. The sight
was good to her, nor did she under-appraise the lines of the slender
ankle above the low tan tie nor did she under-appraise the delicate
yet mature swell of calf outlined in the fresh brown of a new cotton
stocking. Down from the chair, she pinned on a firm sailor hat of white
straw with a brown ribbon around the crown that matched her ribbon belt.
She rubbed her cheeks quickly and fiercely to bring back the color Sarah
had driven out of them, and delayed a moment longer to put on her tan
lisle-thread gloves. Once, in the fashion-page of a Sunday supplement,
she had read that no lady ever put on her gloves after she left the
door.

With a resolute self-grip, as she crossed the parlor and passed the
door to Sarah's bedroom, through the thin wood of which came elephantine
moanings and low slubberings, she steeled herself to keep the color in
her cheeks and the brightness in her eyes. And so well did she succeed
that Billy never dreamed that the radiant, live young thing, tripping
lightly down the steps to him, had just come from a bout with
soul-sickening hysteria and madness.

To her, in the bright sun, Billy's blondness was startling. His cheeks,
smooth as a girl's, were touched with color. The blue eyes seemed more
cloudily blue than usual, and the crisp, sandy hair hinted more than
ever of the pale straw-gold that was not there. Never had she seen him
quite so royally young. As he smiled to greet her, with a slow white
flash of teeth from between red lips, she caught again the promise
of easement and rest. Fresh from the shattering chaos of her
sister-in-law's mind, Billy's tremendous calm was especially satisfying,
and Saxon mentally laughed to scorn the terrible temper he had charged
to himself.

She had been buggy-riding before, but always behind one horse, jaded,
and livery, in a top-buggy, heavy and dingy, such as livery stables
rent because of sturdy unbreakableness. But here stood two horses,
head-tossing and restless, shouting in every high-light glint of their
satin, golden-sorrel coats that they had never been rented out in
all their glorious young lives. Between them was a pole inconceivably
slender, on them were harnesses preposterously string-like and fragile.
And Billy belonged here, by elemental right, a part of them and of it,
a master-part and a component, along with the spidery-delicate,
narrow-boxed, wide- and yellow-wheeled, rubber-tired rig, efficient and
capable, as different as he was different from the other man who had
taken her out behind stolid, lumbering horses. He held the reins in
one hand, yet, with low, steady voice, confident and assuring, held the
nervous young animals more by the will and the spirit of him.

It was no time for lingering. With the quick glance and fore-knowledge
of a woman, Saxon saw, not merely the curious children clustering about,
but the peering of adult faces from open doors and windows, and past
window-shades lifted up or held aside. With his free hand, Billy
drew back the linen robe and helped her to a place beside him. The
high-backed, luxuriously upholstered seat of brown leather gave her
a sense of great comfort; yet even greater, it seemed to her, was the
nearness and comfort of the man himself and of his body.

"How d'ye like 'em?" he asked, changing the reins to both hands and
chirruping the horses, which went out with a jerk in an immediacy of
action that was new to her. "They're the boss's, you know. Couldn't rent
animals like them. He lets me take them out for exercise sometimes. If
they ain't exercised regular they're a handful.--Look at King, there,
prancin'. Some style, eh? Some style! The other one's the real goods,
though. Prince is his name. Got to have some bit on him to hold'm.--Ah!
Would you?--Did you see'm, Saxon? Some horse! Some horse!"

From behind came the admiring cheer of the neighborhood children, and
Saxon, with a sigh of content, knew that the happy day had at last
begun.


CHAPTER X

"I don't know horses," Saxon said. "I've never been on one's back,
and the only ones I've tried to drive were single, and lame, or almost
falling down, or something. But I'm not afraid of horses. I just love
them. I was born loving them, I guess."

Billy threw an admiring, appreciative glance at her.

"That's the stuff. That's what I like in a woman--grit. Some of the
girls I've had out--well, take it from me, they made me sick. Oh, I'm
hep to 'em. Nervous, an' trembly, an' screechy, an' wabbly. I reckon
they come out on my account an' not for the ponies. But me for the brave
kid that likes the ponies. You're the real goods, Saxon, honest to God
you are. Why, I can talk like a streak with you. The rest of 'em make me
sick. I'm like a clam. They don't know nothin', an' they're that scared
all the time--well, I guess you get me"

"You have to be born to love horses, maybe," she answered. "Maybe it's
because I always think of my father on his roan war-horse that makes me
love horses. But, anyway, I do. When I was a little girl I was drawing
horses all the time. My mother always encouraged me. I've a scrapbook
mostly filled with horses I drew when I was little. Do you know, Billy,
sometimes I dream I actually own a horse, all my own. And lots of times
I dream I'm on a horse's back, or driving him."

"I'll let you drive 'em, after a while, when they've worked their edge
off. They're pullin' now.--There, put your hands in front of mine--take
hold tight. Feel that? Sure you feel it. An' you ain't feelin' it all by
a long shot. I don't dast slack, you bein' such a lightweight."

Her eyes sparkled as she felt the apportioned pull of the mouths of the
beautiful, live things; and he, looking at her, sparkled with her in her
delight.

"What's the good of a woman if she can't keep up with a man?" he broke
out enthusiastically.

"People that like the same things always get along best together," she
answered, with a triteness that concealed the joy that was hers at being
so spontaneously in touch with him.

"Why, Saxon, I've fought battles, good ones, frazzlin' my silk away
to beat the band before whisky-soaked, smokin' audiences of rotten
fight-fans, that just made me sick clean through. An' them, that
couldn't take just one stiff jolt or hook to jaw or stomach, a-cheerin'
me an' yellin' for blood. Blood, mind you! An' them without the blood of
a shrimp in their bodies. Why, honest, now, I'd sooner fight before an
audience of one--you for instance, or anybody I liked. It'd do me proud.
But them sickenin', sap-headed stiffs, with the grit of rabbits and the
silk of mangy ky-yi's, a-cheerin' me--ME! Can you blame me for quittin'
the dirty game?--Why, I'd sooner fight before broke-down old plugs of
work-horses that's candidates for chicken-meat, than before them rotten
bunches of stiffs with nothin' thicker'n water in their veins, an'
Contra Costa water at that when the rains is heavy on the hills."

"I... I didn't know prizefighting was like that," she faltered, as she
released her hold on the lines and sank back again beside him.

"It ain't the fightin', it's the fight-crowds," he defended with instant
jealousy. "Of course, fightin' hurts a young fellow because it frazzles
the silk outa him an' all that. But it's the low-lifers in the audience
that gets me. Why the good things they say to me, the praise an'
that, is insulting. Do you get me? It makes me cheap. Think of
it--booze-guzzlin' stiffs that 'd be afraid to mix it with a sick cat,
not fit to hold the coat of any decent man, think of them a-standin' up
on their hind legs an' yellin' an' cheerin' me--ME!"

"Ha! ha! What d'ye think of that? Ain't he a rogue?"

A big bulldog, sliding obliquely and silently across the street,
unconcerned with the team he was avoiding, had passed so close that
Prince, baring his teeth like a stallion, plunged his head down against
reins and check in an effort to seize the dog.

"Now he's some fighter, that Prince. An' he's natural. He didn't make
that reach just for some low-lifer to yell'm on. He just done it outa
pure cussedness and himself. That's clean. That's right. Because it's
natural. But them fight-fans! Honest to God, Saxon...."

And Saxon, glimpsing him sidewise, as he watched the horses and their
way on the Sunday morning streets, checking them back suddenly and
swerving to avoid two boys coasting across street on a toy wagon, saw
in him deeps and intensities, all the magic connotations of temperament,
the glimmer and hint of rages profound, bleaknesses as cold and far as
the stars, savagery as keen as a wolf's and clean as a stallion's, wrath
as implacable as a destroying angel's, and youth that was fire and life
beyond time and place. She was awed and fascinated, with the hunger of
woman bridging the vastness to him, daring to love him with arms and
breast that ached to him, murmuring to herself and through all the halls
of her soul, "You dear, you dear."

"Honest to God, Saxon," he took up the broken thread, "they's times
when I've hated them, when I wanted to jump over the ropes and wade into
them, knock-down and drag-out, an' show'm what fightin' was. Take that
night with Billy Murphy. Billy Murphy!--if you only knew him. My friend.
As clean an' game a boy as ever jumped inside the ropes to take the
decision. Him! We went to the Durant School together. We grew up chums.
His fight was my fight. My trouble was his trouble. We both took to the
fightin' game. They matched us. Not the first time. Twice we'd fought
draws. Once the decision was his; once it was mine. The fifth fight of
two lovin' men that just loved each other. He's three years older'n me.
He's a wife and two or three kids, an' I know them, too. And he's my
friend. Get it?

"I'm ten pounds heavier--but with heavyweights that 'a all right. He
can't time an' distance as good as me, an' I can keep set better, too.
But he's cleverer an' quicker. I never was quick like him. We both can
take punishment, an' we're both two-handed, a wallop in all our fists.
I know the kick of his, an' he knows my kick, an' we're both real
respectful. And we're even-matched. Two draws, and a decision to each.
Honest, I ain't any kind of a hunch who's gain' to win, we're that even.

"Now, the fight.why?

TRUE: Question till you throat be cut, do: dally till the enraged soul
find you.

LA-F: Who is that?

TRUE: Daw it is: will you in?

LA-F: Ay, ay, I will in: what's the matter?

TRUE: Nay, if he had been cool enough to tell us that, there had been
some hope to atone you, but he seems so implacably enraged!

LA-F: 'Slight, let him rage! I'll hide myself.

TRUE: Do, good sir. But what have you done to him within, that should
provoke him thus? You have broke some jest upon him, afore the ladies.

LA-F: Not I, never in my life, broke jest upon any man. The bride was
praising sir Dauphine, and he went away in snuff, and I followed him,
unless he took offence at me in his drink erewhile, that I would not
pledge all the horse full.

TRUE: By my faith, and that may be, you remember well: but he walks the
round up and down, through every room o' the house, with a towel in his
hand, crying, Where's La-Foole? Who saw La-Foole?
and when Dauphine and I demanded the cause, we can force no answer from
him, but--O revenge, how sweet art thou! I will strangle him in this
towel--which leads us to conjecture that the main cause of his fury is,
for bringing your meat to-day, with a towel about you, to his
discredit.

LA-F: Like enough. Why, if he be angry for that, I'll stay here till his
anger be blown over.

TRUE: A good becoming resolution, sir; if you can put it on o' the
sudden.

LA-F: Yes, I can put it on: or, I'll away into the country presently.

TRUE: How will you get out of the house, sir? he knows you are in the
house, and he will watch you this se'ennight, but he'll have you. He'll
outwait a serjeant for you.

LA-F: Why, then I'll stay here.

TRUE: You must think how to victual yourself in time then.

LA-F: Why, sweet master Truewit, will you entreat my cousin Otter
to send me a cold venison pasty, a bottle or two of wine, and a
chamber-pot?

TRUE: A stool were better, sir, of sir Ajax his invention.

LA-F: Ay, that will be better, indeed; and a pallet to lie on.

TRUE: O, I would not advise you to sleep by any means.

LA-F: Would you not, sir? why, then I will not.

TRUE: Yet, there's another fear--
LA-F: Is there!

what is't?

TRUE: No, he cannot break open this door with his foot, sure.

LA-F: I'll set my back against it, sir. I have a good back.

TRUE: But then if he should batter.

LA-F: Batter!

if he dare, I'll have an action of battery against him.

TRUE: Cast you the worst.

He has sent for powder already, and what he will do with it, no man knows:
perhaps blow up the corner of the house where he suspects you are.

Here he comes; in quickly.
[THRUSTS IN LA-FOOLE AND SHUTS THE DOOR.] I protest, sir John Daw, he is
not this way: what will you do?
before God, you shall hang no petard here.

I'll die rather. Will you not take my word? I never knew one but would
be satisfied.-- Sir Amorous, [SPEAKS THROUGH THE KEY-HOLE,] there's
no standing out: He has made a petard of an old brass pot, to force
your door.

Think upon some satisfaction, or terms to offer him.

LA-F [WITHIN.]: Sir, I will give him any satisfaction: I dare give any
terms.

TRUE: You'll leave it to me, then?

LA-F: Ay, sir. I'll stand to any conditions.

TRUE [BECKONING FORWARD CLERIMONT AND DAUPHINE.]: How now, what think
you, sirs? were't not a difficult thing to determine which of these
two fear'd most.

CLER: Yes, but this fears the bravest: the other a whiniling dastard,
Jack Daw! But La-Foole, a brave heroic coward! and is afraid in a great
look and a stout accent; I like him rarely.

TRUE: Had it not been pity these two should have been concealed?

CLER: Shall I make a motion?

TRUE: Briefly: For I must strike while 'tis hot.

CLER: Shall I go fetch the ladies to the catastrophe?

TRUE: Umph! ay, by my troth.

DAUP: By no mortal means.

Let them continue in the state of ignorance, and err still; think them
wits and fine fellows, as they have done. 'Twere sin to reform them.

TRUE: Well, I will have them fetch'd, now I think on't, for a private
purpose of mine: do, Clerimont, fetch them, and discourse to them all
that's past, and bring them into the gallery here.

DAUP: This is thy extreme vanity, now: thou think'st thou wert undone, if
every jest thou mak'st were not publish'd.

TRUE: Thou shalt see how unjust thou art presently.

Clerimont, say it was Dauphine's plot.
[EXIT CLERIMONT.] Trust me not, if the whole drift be not for thy good.
There is a carpet in the next room, put it on, with this scarf over
thy face, and a cushion on thy head, and be ready when I call
Amorous.
Away!

[EXIT DAUP.] John Daw!
[GOES TO DAW'S CLOSET AND BRINGS HIM OUT.]
DAW: What good news, sir?

TRUE: Faith, I have followed and argued with him hard for you. I told
him you were a knight, and a scholar, and that you knew fortitude did
consist magis patiendo quam faciendo, magis ferendo quam feriendo.

DAW: It doth so indeed, sir.

TRUE: And that you would suffer, I told him: so at first he demanded
by my troth, in my conceit, too much.

DAW: What was it, sir.

TRUE: Your upper lip, and six of your fore-teeth.

DAW: 'Twas unreasonable.

TRUE: Nay, I told him plainly, you could not spare them all.
So after long argument pro et con as you know, I brought him down to
your two butter-teeth, and them he would have.

DAW: O, did you so? Why, he shall have them.

TRUE: But he shall not, sir, by your leave. The conclusion is this, sir:
because you shall be very good friends hereafter, and this never to be
remembered or upbraided; besides, that he may not boast he has done any
such thing to you in his own person: he is to come here in disguise,
give you five kicks in private, sir, take your sword from you, and
lock you up in that study during pleasure:
which will be but a little while, we'll get it released presently.

DAW: Five kicks! he shall have six, sir, to be friends.

TRUE: Believe me, you shall not over-shoot yourself, to send him that
word by me.

DAW: Deliver it, sir: he shall have it with all my heart, to be
friends.

TRUE: Friends! Nay, an he should not be so, and heartily too, upon these
terms, he shall have me to enemy while I live. Come, sir, bear it
bravely.

DAW: O lord, sir, 'tis nothing.

TRUE: True: what's six kicks to a man that reads Seneca?

DAW: I have had a hundred, sir.

TRUE: Sir Amorous!
[RE-ENTER DAUPHINE, DISGUISED.] No speaking one to another, or rehearsing
old matters.

DAW [AS DAUPHINE KICKS HIM.]: One, two, three, four, five. I protest,
sir Amorous, you shall have six.

TRUE: Nay, I told you, you should not talk. Come give him six, an he will
needs.

[DAUPHINE KICKS HIM AGAIN.] --Your sword.
[TAKES HIS SWORD.] Now return to your safe custody: you shall presently
meet afore the ladies, and be the dearest friends one to another.
[PUTS DAW INTO THE STUDY.] --Give me the scarf now, thou shalt beat the
other bare-faced.

Stand by:

[DAUPHINE RETIRES, AND TRUEWIT GOES TO THE OTHER CLOSET, AND RELEASES
LA-FOOLE.] --Sir Amorous!

LA-F: What's here? A sword?

TRUE: I cannot help it, without I should take the quarrel upon
myself.

Here he has sent you his sword--
LA-F: I will receive none on't.

TRUE: And he wills you to fasten it against a wall, and break your head
in some few several places against the hilts.

LA-F: I will not: tell him roundly. I cannot endure to shed my own
blood.

TRUE: Will you not?

LA-F: No. I'll beat it against a fair flat wall, if that will satisfy
him: if not, he shall beat it himself, for Amorous.

TRUE: Why, this is strange starting off, when a man undertakes for you!
I offer'd him another condition; will you stand to that?

LA-F: Ay, what is't.

TRUE: That you will be beaten in private.

LA-F: Yes, I am content, at the blunt.

[ENTER, ABOVE, HAUGHTY, CENTAURE, MAVIS, MISTRESS OTTER, EPICOENE, AND
TRUSTY.]
TRUE: Then you must submit yourself to be hoodwinked in this scarf,
and be led to him, where he will take your sword from you, and
make you bear a blow over the mouth, gules, and tweaks by the nose,
sans nombre.

LA-F: I am content. But why must I be blinded?

TRUE: That's for your good, sir: because, if he should grow insolent
upon this, and publish it hereafter to your disgrace, (which I hope
he will not do,) you might swear safely, and protest, he never beat
you, to your knowledge.

LA-F: O, I conceive.

TRUE: I do not doubt but you will be perfect good friends upon't, and
not dare to utter an ill thought one of another in future.

LA-F: Not I, as God help me, of him.

TRUE: Nor he of you, sir. If he should [BLINDS HIS EYES.] --Come, sir.
[LEADS HIM FORWARD.] --All hid, sir John.

[ENTER DAUPHINE, AND TWEAKS HIM BY THE NOSE.]
LA-F: O, sir John, sir John! Oh, o--o--o--o--o--Oh--
TRUE: Good, sir John, leave tweaking, you'll blow his nose off.

'Tis sir John's pleasure, you should retire into the study.
[PUTS HIM UP AGAIN.] --Why, now you are friends. All bitterness between
you, I hope, is buried; you shall come forth by and by, Damon and
Pythias upon't, and embrace with all the rankness of friendship that
can be. I trust, we shall have them tamer in their language
hereafter.
Dauphine, I worship thee.

--Gods will the ladies have surprised us!

[ENTER HAUGHTY, CENTAURE, MAVIS, MISTRESS OTTER, EPICOENE, AND TRUSTY,
BEHIND.]
HAU: Centaure, how our judgments were imposed on by these adulterate
knights!

Nay, madam, Mavis was more deceived than we, 'twas her commendation utter'd
them in the college.

MAV: I commended but their wits, madam, and their braveries.

I never look'd toward their valours.

HAU: Sir Dauphine is valiant, and a wit too, it seems.

MAV: And a bravery too.

HAU: Was this his project?

MRS. OTT: So master Clerimont intimates, madam.

HAU: Good Morose, when you come to the college, will you bring him with
you? he seems a very perfect gentleman.

EPI: He is so, madam, believe it.

CEN: But when will you come, Morose?

EPI: Three or four days hence, madam, when I have got me a coach and
horses.

HAU: No, to-morrow, good Morose; Centaure shall send you her coach.

MAV: Yes faith, do, and bring sir Dauphine with you.

HAU: She has promised that, Mavis.

MAV: He is a very worthy gentleman in his exteriors, madam.

HAU: Ay, he shews he is judicial in his clothes.

CEN: And yet not so superlatively neat as some, madam, that have
their faces set in a brake.
HAU: Ay, and have every hair in form!
MAV: That wear purer linen then ourselves, and profess more neatness
than the French hermaphrodite!
EPI: Ay, ladies, they, what they tell one of us, have told a thousand;
and are the only thieves of our fame: that think to take us with
that perfume, or with that lace, and laugh at us unconscionably
when they have done.
HAU: But, sir Dauphine's carelessness becomes him.
CEN: I could love a man for such a nose.

MAV: Or such a leg!
CEN: He has an exceeding good eye, madam.
MAV: And a very good lock.
CEN: Good Morose, bring him to my chamber first.
MRS. OTT: Please your honours to meet at my house, madam.
TRUE: See how they eye thee, man! they are taken, I warrant
thee.

[HAUGHTY COMES FORWARD.]
HAU: You have unbraced our brace of knights here, master Truewit.
TRUE: Not I, madam; it was sir Dauphine's ingine: who, if he have
disfurnish'd your ladyship of any guard or service by it, is able
to make the place good again, in himself.
HAU: There is no suspicion of that, sir.
CEN: God so, Mavis, Haughty is kissing.
MAV: Let us go too, and take part.

[THEY COME FORWARD.]
HAU: But I am glad of the fortune (beside the discovery of two such
empty caskets) to gain the knowledge of so rich a mine of virtue
as sir Dauphine.
CEN: We would be all glad to style him of our friendship, and see
him at the college.
MAV: He cannot mix with a sweeter society, I'll prophesy; and I
hope he himself will think so.
DAUP: I should be rude to imagine otherwise, lady.
TRUE: Did not I tell thee, Dauphine? Why, all their actions are
governed by crude opinion, without reason or cause; they know not
why they do any thing: but, as they are inform'd, believe, judge,
praise, condemn, love, hate, and in emulation one of another, do
all these things alike. Only they have a natural inclination sways
them generally to the worst, when they are left to themselves.
But pursue it, now thou hast them.
HAU: Shall we go in again, Morose?

EPI: Yes, madam.
CEN: We'll entreat sir Dauphine's company.
TRUE: Stay, good madam, the interview of the two friends, Pylades
and Orestes: I'll fetch them out to you straight.
HAU: Will you, master Truewit?
DAUP: Ay, but noble ladies, do not confess in your countenance, or
outward bearing to them, any discovery of their follies, that we
may see how they will bear up again, with what assurance and
erection.

HAU: We will not, sir Dauphine.
CEN. MAV: Upon our honours, sir Dauphine.
TRUE [GOES TO THE FIRST CLOSET.]: Sir Amorous, sir Amorous!
The ladies are here.

LA-F [WITHIN.]: Are they?
TRUE: Yes; but slip out by and by, as their backs are turn'd, and
meet sir John here, as by chance, when I call you.
[goes to the other.] --Jack Daw.

DAW: What say you, sir?
TRUE: Whip out behind me suddenly, and no anger in your looks to
your adversary. Now, now!
[LA-FOOLE AND DAW SLIP OUT OF THEIR RESPECTIVE CLOSETS, AND SALUTE
EACH OTHER.] 
LA-F: Noble sir John Daw, where have you been?
DAW: To seek you, sir Amorous.

LA-F: Me! I honour you.
DAW: I prevent you, sir.

CLER: They have forgot their rapiers.
TRUE: O, they meet in peace, man.
DAUP: Where's your sword, sir John?

CLER: And yours, sir Amorous?
DAW: Mine! my boy had it forth to mend the handle, e'en now.
LA-F: And my gold handle was broke too, and my boy had it forth.
DAUP: Indeed, sir!--How their excuses meet!
CLER: What a consent there is in the handles!
TRUE: Nay, there is so in the points too, I warrant you.
[ENTER MOROSE, WITH THE TWO SWORDS, DRAWN IN HIS HANDS.]
MRS. OTT: O me! madam, he comes again, the madman! Away!
[LADIES, DAW, AND LA-FOOLE, RUN OFF.]
MOR: What make these naked weapons here, gentlemen?
TRUE: O sir! here hath like to have been murder since you went; a
couple of knights fallen out about the bride's favours! We were
fain to take away their weapons; your house had been begg'd by this
time else.

MOR: For what?
CLER: For manslaughter, sir, as being accessary.
MOR: And for her favours?
TRUE: Ay, sir, heretofore, not present--Clerimont, carry them their
swords, now. They have done all the hurt they will do.
[EXIT CLER. WITH THE TWO SWORDS.]
DAUP: Have you spoke with the lawyer, sir?
MOR: O, no! there is such a noise in the court, that they have
frighted me home with more violence then I went! such speaking and
counter-speaking, with their several voices of citations, appellations,
allegations, certificates, attachments, intergatories, references,
convictions, and afflictions indeed, among the doctors and proctors,
that the noise here is silence to't! a kind of calm midnight!
TRUE: Why, sir, if you would be resolved indeed, I can bring you
hither a very sufficient lawyer, and a learned divine, that shall
enquire into every least scruple for you.
MOR: Can you, master Truewit?
TRUE: Yes, and are very sober, grave persons, that will dispatch
it in a chamber, with a whisper or two.
MOR: Good sir, shall I hope this benefit from you, and trust myself
into your hands?
TRUE: Alas, sir! your nephew and I have been ashamed and oft-times
mad, since you went, to think how you are abused. Go in, good sir,
and lock yourself up till we call you; we'll tell you more anon,
sir.
MOR: Do your pleasure with me gentlemen; I believe in you: and that
deserves no delusion.

[EXIT.]
TRUE: You shall find none, sir: but heap'd, heap'd plenty of
vexation.

DAUP: What wilt thou do now, Wit?
TRUE: Recover me hither Otter and the barber, if you can, by any
means, presently.

DAUP: Why? to what purpose?
TRUE: O, I'll make the deepest divine, and gravest lawyer, out of
them two for him--
DAUP: Thou canst not, man; these are waking dreams.
TRUE: Do not fear me. Clap but a civil gown with a welt on the one;
and a canonical cloak with sleeves on the other: and give them a
few terms in their mouths, if there come not forth as able a doctor,
and complete a parson, for this turn, as may be wish'd, trust not
my election: and, I hope, without wronging the dignity of either
profession, since they are but persons put on, and for mirth's sake,
to torment him. The barber smatters Latin, I remember.
DAUP: Yes, and Otter too.
TRUE: Well then, if I make them not wrangle out this case to his
no comfort, let me be thought a Jack Daw or La-Foole or anything
worse."By golly, I think you're right," he exclaimed. "It strikes me that way,
now you speak of it. They ain't no games or tricks here, no cheatin'
an' no lyin'. Them trees just stand up natural an' strong an' clean
like young boys their first time in the ring before they've learned its
rottenness an' how to double-cross an' lay down to the bettin' odds an'
the fight-fans. Yep; it is brave. Say, Saxon, you see things, don't you?"
His pause was almost wistful, and he looked at her and studied her with
a caressing softness that ran through her in resurgent thrills. "D'ye
know, I'd just like you to see me fight some time--a real fight, with
something doin' every moment. I'd be proud to death to do it for you.
An' I'd sure fight some with you lookin' on an' understandin'. That'd be
a fight what is, take it from me. An' that's funny, too. I never wanted
to fight before a woman in my life. They squeal and screech an' don't
understand. But you'd understand. It's dead open an' shut you would."

A little later, swinging along the flat of the valley, through the
little clearings of the farmers and the ripe grain-stretches golden in
the sunshine, Billy turned to Saxon again.

"Say, you've ben in love with fellows, lots of times. Tell me about it.
What's it like?"

She shook her head slowly.

"I only thought I was in love--and not many times, either--"

"Many times!" he cried.

"Not really ever," she assured him, secretly exultant at his unconscious
jealousy. "I never was really in love. If I had been I'd be married
now. You see, I couldn't see anything else to it but to marry a man if I
loved him."

"But suppose he didn't love you?"

"Oh, I don't know," she smiled, half with facetiousness and half with
certainty and pride. "I think I could make him love me."

"I guess you sure could," Billy proclaimed enthusiastically.

"The trouble is," she went on, "the men that loved me I never cared for
that way.--Oh, look!"

A cottontail rabbit had scuttled across the road, and a tiny dust cloud
lingered like smoke, marking the way of his flight. At the next turn a
dozen quail exploded into the air from under the noses of the horses.
Billy and Saxon exclaimed in mutual delight.

"Gee," he muttered, "I almost wisht I'd ben born a farmer. Folks wasn't
made to live in cities."

"Not our kind, at least," she agreed. Followed a pause and a long sigh.
"It's all so beautiful. It would be a dream just to live all your life
in it. I'd like to be an Indian squaw sometimes."

Several times Billy checked himself on the verge of speech.

"About those fellows you thought you was in love with," he said finally.
"You ain't told me, yet."

"You want to know?" she asked. "They didn't amount to anything."

"Of course I want to know. Go ahead. Fire away."

"Well, first there was Al Stanley--"

"What did he do for a livin'?" Billy demanded, almost as with authority.

"He was a gambler."

Billy's face abruptly stiffened, and she could see his eyes cloudy with
doubt in the quick glance he flung at her.

"Oh, it was all right," she laughed. "I was only eight years old. You
see, I'm beginning at the beginning. It was after my mother died and
when I was adopted by Cady. He kept a hotel and saloon. It was down
in Los Angeles. Just a small hotel. Workingmen, just common laborers,
mostly, and some railroad men, stopped at it, and I guess Al Stanley
got his share of their wages. He was so handsome and so quiet and
soft-spoken. And he had the nicest eyes and the softest, cleanest hands.
I can see them now. He played with me sometimes, in the afternoon, and
gave me candy and little presents. He used to sleep most of the day. I
didn't know why, then. I thought he was a fairy prince in disguise. And
then he got killed, right in the bar-room, but first he killed the man
that killed him. So that was the end of that love affair.

"Next was after the asylum, when I was thirteen and living with my
brother--I've lived with him ever since. He was a boy that drove a
bakery wagon. Almost every morning, on the way to school, I used to
pass him. He would come driving down Wood Street and turn in on Twelfth.
Maybe it was because he drove a horse that attracted me. Anyway, I
must have loved him for a couple of months. Then he lost his job, or
something, for another boy drove the wagon. And we'd never even spoken
to each other.

"Then there was a bookkeeper when I was sixteen. I seem to run to
bookkeepers. It was a bookkeeper at the laundry that Charley Long beat
up. This other one was when I was working in Hickmeyer's Cannery. He had
soft hands, too. But I quickly got all I wanted of him. He was... well,
anyway, he had ideas like your boss. And I never really did love him,
truly and honest, Billy. I felt from the first that he wasn't just
right. And when I was working in the paper-box factory I thought I loved
a clerk in Kahn's Emporium--you know, on Eleventh and Washington. He was
all right. That was the trouble with him. He was too much all right. He
didn't have any life in him, any go. He wanted to marry me, though.
But somehow I couldn't see it. That shows I didn't love him. He was
narrow-chested and skinny, and his hands were always cold and fishy. But
my! he could dress--just like he came out of a bandbox. He said he was
going to drown himself, and all kinds of things, but I broke with him
just the same.

"And after that... well, there isn't any after that. I must have got
particular, I guess, but I didn't see anybody I could love. It seemed
more like a game with the men I met, or a fight. And we never fought
fair on either side. Seemed as if we always had cards up our sleeves. We
weren't honest or outspoken, but instead it seemed as if we were trying
to take advantage of each other. Charley Long was honest, though. And
so was that bank cashier. And even they made me have the fight feeling
harder than ever. All of them always made me feel I had to take care of
myself. They wouldn't. That was sure."

She stopped and looked with interest at the clean profile of his face as
he watched and guided the homes. He looked at her inquiringly, and her
eyes laughed lazily into his as she stretched her arms.

"That's all," she concluded. "I've told you everything, which I've never
done before to any one. And it's your turn now."

"Not much of a turn, Saxon. I've never cared for girls--that is, not
enough to want to marry 'em. I always liked men better--fellows like
Billy Murphy. Besides, I guess I was too interested in trainin' an'
fightin' to bother with women much. Why, Saxon, honest, while I ain't
ben altogether good--you understand what I mean--just the same I ain't
never talked love to a girl in my life. They was no call to."

"The girls have loved you just the same," she teased, while in her heart
was a curious elation at his virginal confession.

He devoted himself to the horses.

"Lots of them," she urged.

Still he did not reply.

"Now, haven't they?"

"Well, it wasn't my fault," he said slowly. "If they wanted to look
sideways at me it was up to them. And it was up to me to sidestep if I
wanted to, wasn't it? You've no idea, Saxon, how a prizefighter is run
after. Why, sometimes it's seemed to me that girls an' women ain't got
an ounce of natural shame in their make-up. Oh, I was never afraid of
them, believe muh, but I didn't hanker after 'em. A man's a fool that'd
let them kind get his goat.

"Maybe you haven't got love in you," she challenged.

"Maybe I haven't," was his discouraging reply. "Anyway, I don't
see myself lovin' a girl that runs after me. It's all right for
Charley-boys, but a man that is a man don't like bein' chased by women."

"My mother always said that love was the greatest thing in the world,"
Saxon argued. "She wrote poems about it, too. Some of them were
published in the San Jose Mercury."

"What do you think about it?"

"Oh, I don't know," she baffled, meeting his eyes with another lazy
smile. "All I know is it's pretty good to be alive a day like this."

"On a trip like this--you bet it is," he added promptly.

At one o'clock Billy turned off the road and drove into an open space
among the trees.

"Here's where we eat," he announced. "I thought it'd be better to have
a lunch by ourselves than atop at one of these roadside dinner counters.
An' now, just to make everything safe an' comfortable, I'm goin' to
unharness the horses. We got lots of time. You can get the lunch basket
out an' spread it on the lap-robe."

As Saxon unpacked she basket she was appalled at his extravagance.
She spread an amazing array of ham and chicken sandwiches, crab salad,
hard-boiled eggs, pickled pigs' feet, ripe olives and dill pickles,
Swiss cheese, salted almonds, oranges and bananas, and several pint
bottles of beer. It was the quantity as well as the variety that
bothered her. It had the appearance of a reckless attempt to buy out a
whole delicatessen shop.

"You oughtn't to blow yourself that way," she reproved him as he sat
down beside her. "Why it's enough for half a dozen bricklayers."

"It's all right, isn't it?"

"Yes," she acknowledged. "But that's the trouble. It's too much so."

"Then it's all right," he concluded. "I always believe in havin' plenty.
Have some beer to wash the dust away before we begin? Watch out for the
glasses. I gotta return them."

Later, the meal finished, he lay on his back, smoking a cigarette, and
questioned her about her earlier history. She had been telling him of
her life in her brother's house, where she paid four dollars and a half
a week board. At fifteen she had graduated from grammar school and gone
to work in the jute mills for four dollars a week, three of which she
had paid to Sarah.

"How about that saloonkeeper?" Billy asked. "How come it he adopted
you?"

She shrugged her shoulders. "I don't know, except that all my relatives
were hard up. It seemed they just couldn't get on. They managed to
scratch a lean living for themselves, and that was all. Cady--he was the
saloonkeeper--had been a soldier in my father's company, and he always
swore by Captain Kit, which was their nickname for him. My father had
kept the surgeons from amputating his leg in the war, and he never
forgot it. He was making money in the hotel and saloon, and I found out
afterward he helped out a lot to pay the doctors and to bury my mother
alongside of father. I was to go to Uncle Will--that was my mother's
wish; but there had been fighting up in the Ventura Mountains where his
ranch was, and men had been killed. It was about fences and cattlemen
or something, and anyway he was in jail a long time, and when he got
his freedom the lawyers had got his ranch. He was an old man, then, and
broken, and his wife took sick, and he got a job as night watchman
for forty dollars a month. "Punch" himself did not disdain to give me a
gentle hint as to the folly of my undertaking, terming my journey
into Scotland in search of moraines a sporting-expedition after
"moor-hens."

Only one of my older scientific friends in England, a man who in
earlier years had weathered a similar storm himself, shared my
confidence in the investigations looked upon by others as so visionary,
and offered to accompany me in my excursion to the North of England,
Scotland, and Wales. I cannot recur to that delightful journey without
a few words of grateful and affectionate tribute to the friend who
sustained me by his sympathy and guided me by his knowledge and
experience.

For many years I had enjoyed the privilege of personal acquaintance
with Dr. Buckland, and in 1834, when engaged in the investigation of
fossil fishes, I had travelled with him through parts of England and
Scotland, and had derived invaluable assistance from his friendly
advice and direction.

To him I was indebted for an introduction to all the geologists and
palæontologists of Great Britain, with none of whom, except Lyell,
had I any previous personal acquaintance; and through him I obtained
not only leave to examine all the fossil fishes in public and private
collections throughout England, but the unprecedented privilege of
bringing them together for closer comparison in the rooms of the
Geological Society of London.

A few years later he visited Switzerland, when I had the pleasure of
showing him, in my turn, the glacial phenomena of my native country,
to the study of which I was then devoting all my spare time.

After a thorough survey of the facts I had collected, he became satisfied
that my interpretation of them was likely to prove correct, and
even then he recalled phenomena of his own country, which, under
the new light thrown upon them by the glacial phenomena of Switzerland,
gave a promise of success to my extraordinary venture.

We then resolved to pursue the inquiry together on the occasion of my
next visit to England; and after the meeting in Glasgow of the
British Association for Advancement of Science, we started together
for the mountains of Scotland in search of traces of the glaciers,
which, if there was any truth in the generalizations to which my
study of the Swiss glaciers had led me, must have come down from
the Grampian range, and reached the level of the sea, as they do
now in Greenland.

On the fourth of November of that year I read a paper before the
Geological Society of London, containing a summary of the scientific
results of that excursion, which I had extended with the same success
to Ireland and parts of England.

This paper was followed by one from Dr.
Buckland himself, containing an account of his own observations,
and another from Lyell on the same subject.

From that time, the investigation of glaciers in regions where they no
longer occur has been carried to almost every part of the globe. Before
giving a more special account of this expedition, I will say a
word of the mass of facts which I had brought from my Alpine
researches, on which my own convictions were founded, and which
seemed to Buckland worthy of careful consideration.

To explain these more fully to my readers, I must leave the Scotch hills
for a while, and beg them to return with me to Switzerland once
more.

Thus far I have spoken chiefly of the advance of glaciers, and very justly,
since they are in constant onward motion, being kept within their
limits only by a waste at their lower extremity proportionate to
their advance.

But in considering the past history of glaciers, we must think of their
changes as retrograde, not progressive movements; since, if the glacial
theory be true, a great mass of ice, of which the present glaciers
are but the remnants, formerly spread over the whole Northern
hemisphere, and has gradually disappeared, until now no traces of
it are to be found, except in the Arctic regions and in lofty
mountain-ranges.

Every terminal moraine, such as I described in the last article, is the
retreating footprint of some glacier, as it slowly yielded its possession
of the plain, and betook itself to the mountains; wherever we find
one of these ancient semicircular walls of unusual size, there we
may be sure the glacier resolutely set its icy foot, disputing the
ground inch by inch, while heat and cold strove for the mastery.

There may have been a succession of cold summers, or, if now and
then a warmer summer intervened, a colder one followed, so that the
glacier regained the next year the ground it had lost during the
preceding one, thus continuing to oscillate for a number of years
along the same line, and adding constantly to the _débris_ collected
at its extremity.

Wherever such oscillations and pauses in the retreat of the glacier
occurred, all the materials annually brought down to its terminus were
collected; and when it finally disappeared from that point, it
left a wall to mark its temporary resting-place.

By these semicircular concentric walls we can trace the retreat of
the ice as it withdrew from the plain of Switzerland to the fastnesses
of the Alps.

It paused at Berne, and laid the foundation of the present city,
which is built on an ancient moraine; it made a stand again at the
Lake of Thun, and barred its northern outlet by a wall which holds
its waters back to this day.

Other moraines, though less distinct, are visible nearer the base
of the Bernese Alps, and, above Meyringen, the valley is spanned
by one of very large dimensions.

Again, on the other side of the first chain of high peaks, the glacier
of the Rhone, descending the valley toward the Lake of Geneva, has
everywhere left traces of its ancient extension.

We find the valley crossed at various distances by concentric moraines,
until we reach the lake. There are no less than thirteen concentric
moraines immediately below the present termination of the glacier of
the Rhone, the one nearest to the ice, and the last formed, marking
its present boundary.

Others are visible half a mile, a mile, and two or three miles beyond,
near the villages of Obergestelen and Münster. One of the largest and
finest of these ancient moraines of the glacier of the Rhone stands
at Viesch, and extends across the whole valley, while the Rhone,
already swollen by many mountain-torrents, has cut its way through it.
Lower down, we meet with traces of other ancient glaciers, reaching
laterally the main glacier, which occupied the centre of the valley:
such was the glacier of Viesch, when it extended as far down as
the village;[49] such was the glacier of Aletsch, when it added its
burden of ice to that coming from the upper valley; such was the
glacier of the Simplon, whose moraines, of less antiquity, may now
be seen by the road-side leading over the Alps to Italy; such were
the two gigantic twin glaciers that drained the northern slopes of
the mountain-colosses around Monte Rosa and Matterhorn, united at
Stalden, and thence, losing their independence, became simply lateral
tributaries of the great glacier of the Rhone; such were, farther
on, the glaciers coming down from all the side-valleys opening into
the Rhone basin; such were the glaciers of the St.

Bernard, and even those of Chamouni, which in those early days crossed
the Tête Noire to unite below Martigny with those that filled the
valley of the Rhone. Thus the outlines of this glacier may be followed
from its present remnant at the summit of the Valais, where the Rhone
now springs forth from the ice, to the very shores of the Lake of Geneva,
where, near the mouth of the river, on both banks of the valley, the
ancient moraines may be traced to this day, thousands of feet above
the level of the water, marking the course the glacier once
followed.

It is evident that here the remains of the glacier mark a process of
retrogression; for had these successive walls of loose materials been
deposited in consequence of the advance of the glacier, they would
have been pushed together in one heap at its lower end. That such would
have been the case is not mere inference, but has been determined by
direct observation in other localities. We know, for instance, by
historical record, (see Gruner's "Natural History of the Glaciers
of Switzerland,") that in the seventeenth century a number of
successive moraines existed at Grindelwald, which have since been
driven together by the advance of the glacier, and now form but one.

Indeed, we have ample traditional evidence of the oscillations of
glacier-boundaries in recent times. When I was engaged in the
investigation of this subject, I sought out all the chronicles
kept in old convents or libraries which might throw any light upon
it.

Among other records, I chanced upon the following, which may have some
interest for the historian as well as the geologist.

During the religious wars of the sixteenth century, when the Catholics
gained the ascendancy in the Canton of Valais, the inhabitants of the
upper valleys adhered to the Protestant faith. Shut out from ordinary
communication with the Protestant churches by the Bernese Oberland, the
account states that these peasants braved every obstacle to the
exercise of their religion, and used to carry their children over
a certain road by the valley of Viesch, across the Alps, to be
baptized at Grindelwald, on the farther side of the glaciers of
Aletsch and Viesch.

I could not understand this statement, for no such road exists, or could
be conceived possible at present; nor was there any knowledge of it among
the guides, intimate as they are with every feature of the region.
Impressed, however, with the idea that there must be some foundation
for the statement, I carefully examined the ground, and, penetrating
under the glacier of Aletsch, I actually found, a number of feet
below the present level of the ice, the paved road along which these
hardy people travelled to church with their children, and some
traces of which are still visible.

It has been almost completely buried, although here and there it
reappears; but at this day it is completely impassable for ordinary
travel.

Evidence of a like character is found in a number of facts cited
by Venetz in his celebrated paper upon the variations of temperature
in the Swiss Alps, drawn from the parish and commune registers of
the Canton of Valais.

Among these are acts concerning the right to roads which are now
either entirely hidden by ice, or rendered nearly useless by the
advance of the glacier, a lawsuit respecting the use of a forest
which no longer exists, but the site of which is covered by a
glacier, and other records of a similar character.

The only document, so far as I know, previous to this century, which
furnishes the means of delineating with any accuracy the former
boundary of a glacier, is a topographical plan of the environs of
the Grimsel, including the extremity of the Aar, making a part of
Altmann's work upon the Alps.

In 1740, Kapeler, a physician of Lucerne, undertook a journey to the
mountains of the Aar, to visit certain crystal grottos, now well known,
but then recently discovered. He prepared a map of these grottos and
their vicinity, in which they are represented as being situated
at some distance from the extremity of the glacier, the lower end
of which is now considerably beyond them.[50]
But to return to the glacier of the Rhone.

We can detect the sequence and relative age of its ancient moraines,
not only by their position with reference to each other and to the
present glacier, but also by their vegetation.

The older ones have a mature vegetation; indeed, some of the largest trees
of the valley stand upon the lower moraines, while those higher up,
nearer the glacier, have only comparatively small trees, and the more
recent ones are almost bare of vegetation. Moreover, we do not lose
the track of the great glacier of the Rhone even when we have followed
its ancient boundaries to the shores of the Lake of Geneva; for along
its northern and southern shores we can follow the lateral moraines
marking the limits of the glacier which once occupied that
crescent-shaped depression now filled by the blue waters of the
lake.

M. de Charpentier was the first geologist who attempted to draw the
outlines of the glacier of the Rhone during its greatest extension,
when it not only filled the basin of the Lake of Geneva, but stretched
across the hilly plain to the north, reached the foot of the Jura,
and even rose to a considerable height along the southern slope of
that chain of mountains. At that time the colossal glacier spread at its
extremity like a fan, extending westward in the direction of Geneva
and eastward towards Soleure.[51] The very minute and extensive
investigations of Professor A.

Guyot upon the erratic boulders of Switzerland have not only confirmed
the statements of M. de Charpentier, but even shown that the northeastern
boundary of the ancient glacier of the Rhone was more extensive than was
at first supposed. Other researches upon the ancient moraines along
the shores of the Lake of Geneva, and in other parts of Switzerland,
in which most geologists of the day took an active part, have made
us as fully conversant with the successive outlines and varying
extent of the principal glaciers ranging from the Alpine summits
to the surrounding lowlands as we are with the glaciers in their
present circumscription.

But no one has done as much as Professor Guyot to add precision to
these investigations.

The number of localities, the level of which he has determined
barometrically, with the view of fixing the ancient levels of all
these vanished glaciers, is almost incredible.

The result of all these surveys has been a distinct recognition of
not less than seven gigantic glaciers descending from the northern
and western slopes of the Alps to the adjoining hilly plains of
Switzerland and France.

It is most interesting to trace their outlines upon a recent map of
those countries, but it requires that kind of intellectual effort of the
imagination without which the most brilliant results of modern
science remain an unmeaning record to us.

Let us, nevertheless, try to follow.

The glacier of the Rhone, occupying the whole space between the Bernese
and Valesian Alps, filled to overflowing the valley of the Rhone; at
Martigny it was met by a large tributary from Mont Blanc, by the
side of which it advanced into the plain beyond, filling the whole
Lake of Geneva, and covering the beautiful Canton de Vaud and parts
of Fribourg, Neuchâtel, Berne, and Soleure, rising to the crest of
the Jura, and in many points penetrating even beyond its outer
range.

To the east of this, the largest of all the ancient glaciers of
Switzerland, we find the ancient glacier of the Aar, descending
from the northern slope of the whole range of the Bernese Oberland.

The glaciers that once filled the valley of Hasli, from the Grimsel
to Meyringen, and those that came down from the Wetterhörner, the
Schreckhörner, the Finster-Aarhorn, and the Jungfrau, through the
valleys of Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen, united in a common bed,
the bottom of which was the present basin of the Lakes of Brientz
and Thun.

These were joined by the glaciers emptying their burden through the
valley of the Kander. To these combined glaciers the formation of the
terminal moraine of Thun must be ascribed. But before this had
been formed, the glacier of the Aar, in its amplest extension, had
also reached the foot of the Jura, without, however, spreading so
widely as the glacier of the Rhone.

Farther to the east Professor Guyot has traced the boundaries of three
other colossal glaciers, one of which derived its chief supplies from
the Alps of Uri, bringing with it all the tributaries which the main
glacier coming down from the St. Gothard received right and left, in
its course through the valley of the Reuss and the basins of the
Lakes of Lucerne and Zug.

The second, born in the Canton of Glaris, followed mainly the present
course of the Linth and the basin of the Lake of Zurich. Professor
Escher von der Linth has shown that the lovely city of Zurich is built
upon a moraine, like Berne. The imagination shrinks from the thought
that all the beautiful scenery of those countries should once have
been hidden under masses of ice, like those now covering Greenland.

The easternmost ancient glacier of Switzerland is that of the Rhine,
arising from all the valleys from which now descend the many tributaries
of that stream, spreading over the northeastern Cantons, filling
the Lake of Constance, and terminating at the foot of the Suabian Alp.

 
It was while
gazing at the latter that she was reminded of her wonderful mother's
tales of the ancient Saxons and sea-foragers of the English coasts. From
the chest of drawers that had crossed the plains she drew forth another
of her several precious heirloom--a scrap-book of her mother's in which
was pasted much of the fugitive newspaper verse of pioneer California
days. Also, there were copies of paintings and old wood engravings from
the magazines of a generation and more before.

Saxon ran the pages with familiar fingers and stopped at the picture she
was seeking. Between bold headlands of rock and under a gray cloud-blown
sky, a dozen boats, long and lean and dark, beaked like monstrous birds,
were landing on a foam-whitened beach of sand. The men in the boats,
half naked, huge-muscled and fair-haired, wore winged helmets. In their
hands were swords and spears, and they were leaping, waist-deep, into
the sea-wash and wading ashore. Opposed to them, contesting the landing,
were skin-clad savages, unlike Indians, however, who clustered on the
beach or waded into the water to their knees. The first blows were being
struck, and here and there the bodies of the dead and wounded rolled in
the surf. One fair-haired invader lay across the gunwale of a boat, the
manner of his death told by the arrow that transfixed his breast. In the
air, leaping past him into the water, sword in hand, was Billy. There
was no mistaking it. The striking blondness, the face, the eyes, the
mouth were the same. The very expression on the face was what had been
on Billy's the day of the picnic when he faced the three wild Irishmen.

Somewhere out of the ruck of those warring races had emerged Billy's
ancestors, and hers, was her afterthought, as she closed the book and
put it back in the drawer. And some of those ancestors had made this
ancient and battered chest of drawers which had crossed the salt ocean
and the plains and been pierced by a bullet in the fight with the
Indians at Little Meadow. Almost, it seemed, she could visualize the
women who had kept their pretties and their family homespun in its
drawers--the women of those wandering generations who were grandmothers
and greater great grandmothers of her own mother. Well, she sighed, it
was a good stock to be born of, a hard-working, hard-fighting stock. She
fell to wondering what her life would have been like had she been born
a Chinese woman, or an Italian woman like those she saw, head-shawled
or bareheaded, squat, ungainly and swarthy, who carried great loads
of driftwood on their heads up from the beach. Then she laughed at
her foolishness, remembered Billy and the four-roomed cottage on Pine
Street, and went to bed with her mind filled for the hundredth time with
the details of the furniture.


CHAPTER XIII

"Our cattle were all played out," Saxon was saying, "and winter was so
near that we couldn't dare try to cross the Great American Desert, so
our train stopped in Salt Lake City that winter. The Mormons hadn't got
bad yet, and they were good to us."

"You talk as though you were there," Bert commented.

"My mother was," Saxon answered proudly. "She was nine years old that
winter."

They were seated around the table in the kitchen of the little Pine
Street cottage, making a cold lunch of sandwiches, tamales, and bottled
beer. It being Sunday, the four were free from work, and they had come
early, to work harder than on any week day, washing walls and windows,
scrubbing floors, laying carpets and linoleum, hanging curtains, setting
up the stove, putting the kitchen utensils and dishes away, and placing
the furniture.

"Go on with the story, Saxon," Mary begged. "I'm just dyin' to hear. And
Bert, you just shut up and listen."

"Well, that winter was when Del Hancock showed up. He was Kentucky born,
but he'd been in the West for years. He was a scout, like Kit Carson,
and he knew him well. Many's a time Kit Carson and he slept under the
same blankets. They were together to California and Oregon with General
Fremont. Well, Del Hancock was passing on his way through Salt Lake,
going I don't know where to raise a company of Rocky Mountain trappers
to go after beaver some new place he knew about. Ha was a handsome man.
He wore his hair long like in pictures, and had a silk sash around
his waist he'd learned to wear in California from the Spanish, and two
revolvers in his belt. Any woman 'd fall in love with him first sight.
Well, he saw Sadie, who was my mother's oldest sister, and I guess she
looked good to him, for he stopped right there in Salt Lake and didn't
go a step. He was a great Indian fighter, too, and I heard my Aunt Villa
say, when I was a little girl, that he had the blackest, brightest eyes,
and that the way he looked was like an eagle. He'd fought duels, too,
the way they did in those days, and he wasn't afraid of anything.

"Sadie was a beauty, and she flirted with him and drove him crazy. Maybe
she wasn't sure of her own mind, I don't know. But I do know that she
didn't give in as easy as I did to Billy. Finally, he couldn't stand it
any more. Ha rode up that night on horseback, wild as could be. 'Sadie,'
he said, 'if you don't promise to marry me to-morrow, I'll shoot myself
to-night right back of the corral.' And he'd have done it, too, and
Sadie knew it, and said she would. Didn't they make love fast in those
days?"

"Oh, I don't know," Mary sniffed. "A week after you first laid eyes on
Billy you was engaged. Did Billy say he was going to shoot himself back
of the laundry if you turned him down?"

"I didn't give him a chance," Saxon confessed. "Anyway Del Hancock and
Aunt Sadie got married next day. And they were very happy afterward,
only she died. And after that he was killed, with General Custer and all
the rest, by the Indians. He was an old man by then, but I guess he
got his share of Indians before they got him. Men like him always died
fighting, and they took their dead with them. I used to know Al Stanley
when I was a little girl. He was a gambler, but he was game. A railroad
man shot him in the back when he was sitting at a table. That shot
killed him, too. He died in about two seconds. But before he died he'd
pulled his gun and put three bullets into the man that killed him."

"I don't like fightin'," Mary protested. "It makes me nervous. Bert
gives me the willies the way he's always lookin' for trouble. There
ain't no sense in it."

"And I wouldn't give a snap of my fingers for a man without fighting
spirit," Saxon answered. "Why, we wouldn't be here to-day if it wasn't
for the fighting spirit of our people before us."

"You've got the real goods of a fighter in Billy," Bert assured her; "a
yard long and a yard wide and genuine A Number One, long-fleeced wool.
Billy's a Mohegan with a scalp-lock, that's what he is. And when he gets
his mad up it's a case of get out from under or something will fall on
you--hard."

"Just like that," Mary added.

Billy, who had taken no part in the conversation, got up, glanced into
the bedroom off the kitchen, went into the parlor and the bedroom off
the parlor, then returned and stood gazing with puzzled brows into the
kitchen bedroom.

"What's eatin' you, old man," Bert queried. "You look as though you'd
lost something or was markin' a three-way ticket. What you got on your
chest? Cough it up."

"Why, I'm just thinkin' where in Sam Hill's the bed an' stuff for the
back bedroom."

"There isn't any," Saxon explained. "We didn't order any."

"Then I'll see about it to-morrow."

"What d'ye want another bed for?" asked Bert. "Ain't one bed enough for
the two of you?"

"You shut up, Bert!" Mary cried. "Don't get raw."

"Whoa, Mary!" Bert grinned. "Back up. You're in the wrong stall as
usual."

"We don't need that room," Saxon was saying to Billy. "And so I didn't
plan any furniture. That money went to buy better carpets and a better
stove."

Billy came over to her, lifted her from the chair, and seated himself
with her on his knees.

"That's right, little girl. I'm glad you did. The best for us every
time. And to-morrow night I want you to run up with me to Salinger's
an' pick out a good bedroom set an' carpet for that room. And it must be
good. Nothin' snide."

"It will cost fifty dollars," she objected.

"That's right," he nodded. "Make it cost fifty dollars and not a cent
less. We're goin' to have the best. And what's the good of an empty
room? It'd make the house look cheap. Why, I go around now, seein' this
little nest just as it grows an' softens, day by day, from the day we
paid the cash money down an' nailed the keys. Why, almost every moment
I'm drivin' the horses, all day long, I just keep on seein' this nest.
And when we're married, I'll go on seein' it. And I want to see it
complete. If that room'd he bare-floored an' empty, I'd see nothin' but
it and its bare floor all day long. I'd be cheated. The house'd be
a lie. Look at them curtains you put up in it, Saxon. That's to make
believe to the neighbors that it's furnished. Saxon, them curtains are
lyin' about that room, makin' a noise for every one to hear that that
room's furnished. Nitsky for us. I'm goin' to see that them curtains
tell the truth."

"You might rent it," Bert suggested. "You're close to the railroad
yards, and it's only two blocks to a restaurant."

"Not on your life. I ain't marryin' Saxon to take in lodgers. If I can't
take care of her, d'ye know what I'll do? Go down to Long Wharf, say
'Here goes nothin',' an' jump into the bay with a stone tied to my neck.
Ain't I right, Saxon?"

It was contrary to her prudent judgment, but it fanned her pride. She
threw her arms around her lover's neck, and said, ere she kissed him:

"You're the boss, Billy. What you say goes, and always will go."

"Listen to that!" Bert gibed to Mary. "That's the stuff. Saxon's onto
her job."

"I guess we'll talk things over together first before ever I do
anything," Billy was saying to Saxon.

"Listen to that," Mary triumphed. "You bet the man that marries me'll
have to talk things over first."

"Billy's only givin' her hot air," Bert plagued. "They all do it before
they're married."

Mary sniffed contemptuously.

"I'll bet Saxon leads him around by the nose. And I'm goin' to say, loud
an' strong, that I'll lead the man around by the nose that marries me."

"Not if you love him," Saxon interposed.

"All the more reason," Mary pursued.

Bert assumed an expression and attitude of mournful dejection.

"Now you see why me an' Mary don't get married," he said. "I'm some big
Indian myself, an' I'll be everlastingly jiggerooed if I put up for a
wigwam I can't be boss of."

"And I'm no squaw," Mary retaliated, "an' I wouldn't marry a big buck
Indian if all the rest of the men in the world was dead."

"Well this big buck Indian ain't asked you yet."

"He knows what he'd get if he did."

"And after that maybe he'll think twice before he does ask you."

Saxon, intent on diverting the conversation into pleasanter channels,
clapped her hands as if with sudden recollection.

"Oh! I forgot! I want to show you something." From her purse she drew
a slender ring of plain gold and passed it around. "My mother's wedding
ring. I've worn it around my neck always, like a locket. I cried for it
so in the orphan asylum that the matron gave it back for me to wear. And
now, just to think, after next Tuesday I'll be wearing it on my finger.
Look, Billy, see the engraving on the inside."

"C to D, 1879," he read.

"Carlton to Daisy--Carlton was my father's first name. And now, Billy,
you've got to get it engraved for you and me."

Mary was all eagerness and delight.

"Oh, it's fine," she cried. "W to S, 1907."

Billy considered a moment.

"No, that wouldn't be right, because I'm not giving it to Saxon."

"I'll tell you what," Saxon said. "W and S."

"Nope." Billy shook his head. "S and W, because you come first with me."

"If I come first with you, you come first with us. Billy, dear, I insist
on W and S."

"You see," Mary said to Bert. "Having her own way and leading him by the
nose already."

Saxon acknowledged the sting.

"Anyway you want, Billy," she surrendered. His arms tightened about her.

"We'll talk it over first, I guess."


CHAPTER XIV

Sarah was conservative. Worse, she had crystallized at the end of her
love-time with the coming of her first child. After that she was as
set in her ways as plaster in a mold. Her mold was the prejudices and
notions of her girlhood and the house she lived in. So habitual was
she that any change in the customary round assumed the proportions of
a revolution. Tom had gone through many of these revolutions, three of
them when he moved house. Then his stamina broke, and he never moved
house again.

So it was that Saxon had held back the announcement of her approaching
marriage until it was unavoidable. She expected a scene, and she got it.

"A prizefighter, a hoodlum, a plug-ugly," Sarah sneered, after she had
exhausted herself of all calamitous forecasts of her own future and the
future of her children in the absence of Saxon's weekly four dollars and
a half. "I don't know what your mother'd thought if she lived to see
the day when you took up with a tough like Bill Roberts. Bill! Why, your
mother was too refined to associate with a man that was called Bill. And
all I can say is you can say good-bye to silk stockings and your three
pair of shoes. It won't be long before you'll think yourself lucky to go
sloppin' around in Congress gaiters and cotton stockin's two pair for a
quarter."

"Oh, I'm not afraid of Billy not being able to keep me in all kinds of
shoes," Saxon retorted with a proud toss of her head.

"You don't know what you're talkin' about." Sarah paused to laugh in
mirthless discordance. "Watch for the babies to come. They come faster
than wages raise these days."

"But we're not going to have any babies... that is, at first. Not until
after the furniture is all paid for anyway."

"Wise in your generation, eh? In my days girls were more modest than to
know anything about disgraceful subjects."

"As babies?" Saxon queried, with a touch of gentle malice.

"Yes, as babies."

"The first I knew that babies were disgraceful. Why, Sarah, you, with
your five, how disgraceful you have been. Billy and I have decided not
to be half as disgraceful. We're only going to have two--a boy and a
girl."

Tom chuckled, but held the peace by hiding his face in his coffee cup.
Sarah, though checked by this flank attack, was herself an old hand
in the art. So temporary was the setback that she scarcely paused ere
hurling her assault from a new angle.

"An' marryin' so quick, all of a sudden, eh? If that ain't suspicious,
nothin' is. I don't know what young women's comin' to. They ain't
decent, I tell you. They ain't decent. That's what comes of Sunday
dancin' an' all the rest. Young women nowadays are like a lot of
animals. Such fast an' looseness I never saw...."

Saxon was white with anger, but while Sarah wandered on in her diatribe,
Tom managed to wink privily and prodigiously at his sister and to
implore her to help in keeping the peace.

"It's all right, kid sister," he comforted Saxon when they were alone.
"There's no use talkin' to Sarah. Bill Roberts is a good boy. I know a
lot about him. It does you proud to get him for a husband. You're bound
to be happy with him..." His voice sank, and his face seemed suddenly to
be very old and tired as he went on anxiously. "Take warning from Sarah.
Don't nag. Whatever you do, don't nag. Don't give him a perpetual-motion
line of chin. Kind of let him talk once in a while. Men have some horse
sense, though Sarah don't know it. Why, Sarah actually loves me, though
she don't make a noise like it. The thing for you is to love your
husband, and, by thunder, to make a noise of lovin' him, too. And then
you can kid him into doing 'most anything you want. Let him have his way
once in a while, and he'll let you have yourn. But you just go on lovin'
him, and leanin' on his judgement--he's no fool--and you'll be all
hunky-dory. I'm scared from goin' wrong, what of Sarah. But I'd sooner
be loved into not going wrong."

"Oh, I'll do it, Tom," Saxon nodded, smiling through the tears his
sympathy had brought into her eyes. "And on top of it I'm going to do
something else, I'm going to make Billy love me and just keep on loving
me. And then I won't have to kid him into doing some of the things I
want. He'll do them because he loves me, you see."

"You got the right idea, Saxon. Stick with it, an' you'll win out."

Later, when she had put on her hat to start for the laundry, she found
Tom waiting for her at the corner.

"An', Saxon," he said, hastily and haltingly, "you won't take anything
I've said... you know... --about Sarah... as bein' in any way disloyal
to her? She's a good woman, an' faithful. An' her life ain't so easy by
a long shot. I'd bite out my tongue before I'd say anything against her.
I guess all folks have their troubles. It's hell to be poor, ain't it?"

"You've been awful good to me, Tom. I can never forget it. And I know
Sarah means right. She does do her best."

"I won't be able to give you a wedding present," her brother ventured
apologetically. "Sarah won't hear of it. Says we didn't get none from my
folks when we got married. But I got something for you just the same. A
surprise. You'd never guess it."

Saxon waited.

"When you told me you was goin' to get married, I just happened to think
of it, an' I wrote to brother George, askin' him for it for you. An' by
thunder he sent it by express. I didn't tell you because I didn't know
but maybe he'd sold it. He did sell the silver spurs. He needed the
money, I guess. But the other, I had it sent to the shop so as not
to bother Sarah, an' I sneaked it in last night an' hid it in the
woodshed."

"Oh, it is something of my father's! What is it? Oh, what is it?"

"His army sword."

"The one he wore on his roan war horse! Oh, Tom, you couldn't give me a
better present. Let's go back now. I want to see it. We can slip in the
back way. Sarah's washing in the kitchen, and she won't begin hanging
out for an hour."

"I spoke to Sarah about lettin' you take the old chest of drawers that
was your mother's," Tom whispered, as they stole along the narrow alley
between the houses. "Only she got on her high horse. Said that Daisy was
as much my mother as yourn, even if we did have different fathers, and
that the chest had always belonged in Daisy's family and not Captain
Kit's, an' that it was mine, an' what was mine she had some say-so
about."

The interest of Art lies not in the facts, but in the truth,--that is,
in the facts organized, shown in their place.

It is not that we care more about stocks and stones than they did, but
that we hold the key to an arrangement that gives these things a
significance they have not of themselves

.

* * * * *

SNOW.

Lo, what wonders the day hath brought, Born of the soft and slumberous
snow!
Gradual, silent, slowly wrought,-- Even as an artist, thought by thought,
Writes expression on lip and brow.

Hanging garlands the eaves o'erbrim,-- Deep drifts smother the paths
below; The elms are shrouded, trunk and limb, And all the air is
dizzy and dim With a whirl of dancing, dazzling snow.

Dimly out of the baffled sight Houses and church-spires stretch away;
The trees, all spectral and still and white, Stand up like ghosts
in the failing light, And fade and faint with the blinded day.

Down from the roofs in gusts are hurled The eddying drifts to the waste
below; And still is the banner of storm unfurled, Till all the
drowned and desolate world Lies dumb and white in a trance of
snow.

Slowly the shadows gather and fall,-- Still the whispering snow-flakes
beat; Night and darkness are over all:
Rest, pale city, beneath their pall!
Sleep, white world, in thy winding-sheet!

Clouds may thicken, and storm-winds breathe; On my wall is a glimpse of
Rome,-- Land of my longing!

--and underneath Swings and trembles my olive-wreath; Peace and I are at
home, at home!

* * * * *

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS.

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

II.

I am a frank, open-hearted man, as, perhaps, you have by this time
perceived, and you will not, therefore, be surprised to know that
I read my last article on the carpet to my wife and the girls before
I sent it to the "Atlantic," and we had a hearty laugh over it
together.

My wife and the girls, in fact, felt that they could afford to laugh,
for they had carried their point, their reproach among women was taken
away, they had become like other folks. Like other folks they had a
parlor, an undeniable best parlor, shut up and darkened, with all proper
carpets, curtains, lounges, and marble-topped tables, too good for human
nature's daily food; and being sustained by this consciousness, they
cheerfully went on receiving their friends in the study, and having good
times in the old free-and-easy way; for did not everybody know that this
room was not their best? and if the furniture was old-fashioned and a
little the worse for antiquity, was it not certain that they had
better, which they could use, if they would?

"And supposing we wanted to give a party," said Jane, "how nicely our
parlor would light up!

Not that we ever do give parties, but if we should,--and for a
wedding-reception, you know."
I felt the force of the necessity; it was evident that the four or five
hundred extra which we had expended was no more than such solemn
possibilities required.

"Now, papa thinks we have been foolish," said Marianne, "and he has his
own way of making a good story of it; but, after all, I desire to know
if people are never to get a new carpet. Must we keep the old one till
it actually wears to tatters?" This is a specimen of the _reductio
ad absurdum_ which our fair antagonists of the other sex are fond of
employing.

They strip what we say of all delicate shadings and illusory phrases,
and reduce it to some bare question of fact, with which they make a
home-thrust at us.

"Yes, that's it; are people _never_ to get a new carpet?" echoed Jane.

"My dears," I replied, "it is a fact that to introduce anything new
into an apartment hallowed by many home-associations, where all
things have grown old together, requires as much care and adroitness
as for an architect to restore an arch or niche in a fine old ruin.

The fault of our carpet was that it was in another style from everything
in our room, and made everything in it look dilapidated.

Its colors, material, and air belonged to another manner of life, and
were a constant plea for alterations; and you see it actually drove
out and expelled the whole furniture of the room, and I am not sure
yet that it may not entail on us the necessity of refurnishing the
whole house."
"My dear!" said my wife, in a tone of remonstrance; but Jane and
Marianne laughed and colored.
"Confess, now," said I, looking at them, "have you not had secret
designs on the hall- and stair-carpet?"
"Now, papa, how could you know it? I only said to Marianne that to
have Brussels in the parlor and that old mean-looking ingrain carpet
in the hall did not seem exactly the thing; and, in fact, you know,
mamma, Messrs. Ketchem & Co. showed us such a lovely pattern,
designed to harmonize with our parlor-carpet."
"I know it, girls," said my wife; "but you know I said at once that
such an expense was not to be thought of."They live in the country. They wouldn't hurt a fly. They can't see
in the daytime. That was what was the matter with this one. It was only
a bat."

"Huh, you can't string me," Mary replied. "It was the devil." She
sobbed a moment, and then laughed hysterically again. "Did you see Mrs.
Bergstrom faint? And it only touched her in the face. Why, it was on
my shoulder and touching my bare neck like the hand of a corpse. And I
didn't faint." She laughed again. "I guess, maybe, I was too scared to
faint."

"Come on back," Saxon urged. "We've lost half an hour."

"Not me. I'm goin' home after that, if they fire me. I couldn't iron for
sour apples now, I'm that shaky."

One woman had broken a leg, another an arm, and a number nursed milder
bruises and bruises. No bullying nor entreating of the forewoman could
persuade the women to return to work. They were too upset and nervous,
and only here and there could one be found brave enough to re-enter the
building for the hats and lunch baskets of the others. Saxon was one of
the handful that returned and worked till six o'clock.


CHAPTER XV

"Why, Bert!--you're squiffed!" Mary cried reproachfully.

The four were at the table in the private room at Barnum's. The wedding
supper, simple enough, but seemingly too expensive to Saxon, had been
eaten. Bert, in his hand a glass of California red wine, which
the management supplied for fifty cents a bottle, was on his feet
endeavoring a speech. His face was flushed; his black eyes were
feverishly bright.

"You've ben drinkin' before you met me," Mary continued. "I can see it
stickin' out all over you."

"Consult an oculist, my dear," he replied. "Bertram is himself to-night.
An' he is here, arisin' to his feet to give the glad hand to his old
pal. Bill, old man, here's to you. It's how-de-do an' good-bye, I guess.
You're a married man now, Bill, an' you got to keep regular hours. No
more runnin' around with the boys. You gotta take care of yourself,
an' get your life insured, an' take out an accident policy, an' join a
buildin' an' loan society, an' a buryin' association--"

"Now you shut up, Bert," Mary broke in. "You don't talk about buryin's
at weddings. You oughta be ashamed of yourself."

"Whoa, Mary! Back up! I said what I said because I meant it. I ain't
thinkin' what Mary thinks. What I was thinkin'.... Let me tell you what
I was thinkin'. I said buryin' association, didn't I? Well, it was not
with the idea of castin' gloom over this merry gatherin'. Far be it...."

He was so evidently seeking a way out of his predicament, that Mary
tossed her head triumphantly. This acted as a spur to his reeling wits.

"Let me tell you why," he went on. "Because, Bill, you got such an
all-fired pretty wife, that's why. All the fellows is crazy over her,
an' when they get to runnin' after her, what'll you be doin'? You'll be
gettin' busy. And then won't you need a buryin' association to bury 'em?
I just guess yes. That was the compliment to your good taste in skirts I
was tryin' to come across with when Mary butted in."

His glittering eyes rested for a moment in bantering triumph on Mary.

"Who says I'm squiffed? Me? Not on your life. I'm seein' all things in a
clear white light. An' I see Bill there, my old friend Bill. An' I don't
see two Bills. I see only one. Bill was never two-faced in his life.
Bill, old man, when I look at you there in the married harness, I'm
sorry--" He ceased abruptly and turned on Mary. "Now don't go up in the
air, old girl. I'm onto my job. My grandfather was a state senator, and
he could spiel graceful an' pleasin' till the cows come home. So can
I.--Bill, when I look at you, I'm sorry. I repeat, I'm sorry." He glared
challengingly at Mary. "For myself when I look at you an' know all the
happiness you got a hammerlock on. Take it from me, you're a wise guy,
bless the women. You've started well. Keep it up. Marry 'em all, bless
'em. Bill, here's to you. You're a Mohegan with a scalplock. An' you
got a squaw that is some squaw, take it from me. Minnehaha, here's to
you--to the two of you--an' to the papooses, too, gosh-dang them!"

He drained the glass suddenly and collapsed in his chair, blinking his
eyes across at the wedded couple while tears trickled unheeded down
his cheeks. Mary's hand went out soothingly to his, completing his
break-down.

"By God, I got a right to cry," he sobbed. "I'm losin' my best friend,
ain't I? It'll never be the same again never. When I think of the fun,
an' scrapes, an' good times Bill an' me has had together, I could darn
near hate you, Saxon, sittin' there with your hand in his."

"Cheer up, Bert," she laughed gently. "Look at whose hand you are
holding."

"Aw, it's only one of his cryin' jags," Mary said, with a harshness
that her free hand belied as it caressed his hair with soothing strokes.
"Buck up, Bert. Everything's all right. And now it's up to Bill to say
something after your dandy spiel."

Bert recovered himself quickly with another glass of wine.

"Kick in, Bill," he cried. "It's your turn now."

"I'm no hotair artist," Billy grumbled. "What'll I say, Saxon? They
ain't no use tellin' 'em how happy we are. They know that."

"Tell them we're always going to be happy," she said. "And thank them
for all their good wishes, and we both wish them the same. And we're
always going to be together, like old times, the four of us. And tell
them they're invited down to 507 Pine Street next Sunday for Sunday
dinner.--And, Mary, if you want to come Saturday night you can sleep in
the spare bedroom."

"You've told'm yourself, better'n I could." Billy clapped his hands.
"You did yourself proud, an' I guess they ain't much to add to it, but
just the same I'm goin' to pass them a hot one."

He stood up, his hand on his glass. His clear blue eyes under the
dark brows and framed by the dark lashes, seemed a deeper blue, and
accentuated the blondness of hair and skin. The smooth cheeks were
rosy--not with wine, for it was only his second glass--but with health
and joy. Saxon, looking up at him, thrilled with pride in him, he was so
well-dressed, so strong, so handsome, so clean-looking--her man-boy. And
she was aware of pride in herself, in her woman's desirableness that had
won for her so wonderful a lover.

"Well, Bert an' Mary, here you are at Saxon's and my wedding supper.
We're just goin' to take all your good wishes to heart, we wish you the
same back, and when we say it we mean more than you think we mean. Saxon
an' I believe in tit for tat. So we're wishin' for the day when the
table is turned clear around an' we're sittin' as guests at your weddin'
supper. And then, when you come to Sunday dinner, you can both stop
Saturday night in the spare bedroom. I guess I was wised up when I
furnished it, eh?"

"I never thought it of you, Billy!" Mary exclaimed. "You're every hit as
raw as Bert. But just the same..."

There was a rush of moisture to her eyes. Her voice faltered and broke.
She smiled through her tears at them, then turned to look at Bert, who
put his arm around her and gathered her on to his knees.

When they left the restaurant, the four walked to Eighth and Broadway,
where they stopped beside the electric car. Bert and Billy were awkward
and silent, oppressed by a strange aloofness. But Mary embraced Saxon
with fond anxiousness.

"It's all right, dear," Mary whispered. "Don't be scared. It's all
right. Think of all the other women in the world."

The conductor clanged the gong, and the two couples separated in a
sudden hubbub of farewell.

"Oh, you Mohegan!" Bert called after, as the car got under way. "Oh, you
Minnehaha!"

"Remember what I said," was Mary's parting to Saxon.


The car stopped at Seventh and Pine, the terminus of the line. It was
only a little over two blocks to the cottage. On the front steps Billy
took the key from his pocket.

"Funny, isn't it?" he said, as the key turned in the lock. "You an' me.
Just you an' me."

While he lighted the lamp in the parlor, Saxon was taking off her hat.
He went into the bedroom and lighted the lamp there, then turned back
and stood in the doorway. Saxon, still unaccountably fumbling with her
hatpins, stole a glance at him. He held out his arms.

"Now," he said.

She came to him, and in his arms he could feel her trembling.


BOOK II


CHAPTER I

The first evening after the marriage night Saxon met Billy at the door
as he came up the front steps. After their embrace, and as they crossed
the parlor hand in hand toward the kitchen, he filled his lungs through
his nostrils with audible satisfaction.

"My, but this house smells good, Saxon! It ain't the coffee--I can smell
that, too. It's the whole house. It smells... well, it just smells good
to me, that's all."

He washed and dried himself at the sink, while she heated the frying pan
on the front hole of the stove with the lid off. As he wiped his hands
he watched her keenly, and cried out with approbation as she dropped the
steak in the fryin pan.

"Where'd you learn to cook steak on a dry, hot pan? It's the only way,
but darn few women seem to know about it."

As she took the cover off a second frying pan and stirred the savory
contents with a kitchen knife, he came behind her, passed his arms under
her arm-pits with down-drooping hands upon her breasts, and bent his
head over her shoulder till cheek touched cheek.

"Um-um-um-m-m! Fried potatoes with onions like mother used to make. Me
for them. Don't they smell good, though! Um-um-m-m-m!"

The pressure of his hands relaxed, and his cheek slid caressingly past
hers as he started to release her. Then his hands closed down again.
She felt his lips on her hair and heard his advertised inhalation of
delight.

"Um-um-m-m-m! Don't you smell good--yourself, though! I never understood
what they meant when they said a girl was sweet. I know, now. And you're
the sweetest I ever knew."

His joy was boundless. When he returned from combing his hair in the
bedroom and sat down at the small table opposite her, he paused with
knife and fork in hand.

"Say, bein' married is a whole lot more than it's cracked up to be by
most married folks. Honest to God, Saxon, we can show 'em a few. We can
give 'em cards and spades an' little casino an' win out on big casino
and the aces. I've got but one kick comin'."

The instant apprehension in her eyes provoked a chuckle from him.

"An' that is that we didn't get married quick enough. Just think. I've
lost a whole week of this."

Her eyes shone with gratitude and happiness, and in her heart she
solemnly pledged herself that never in all their married life would it
be otherwise.

Supper finished, she cleared the table and began washing the dishes at
the sink. When he evinced the intention of wiping them, she caught him
by the lapels of the coat and backed him into a chair.

"You'll sit right there, if you know what's good for you. Now be good
and mind what I say. Also, you will smoke a cigarette.--No; you're not
going to watch me. There's the morning paper beside you. And if you
don't hurry to read it, I'll be through these dishes before you've
started."

As he smoked and read, she continually glanced across at him from her
work. One thing more, she thought--slippers; and then the picture of
comfort and content would be complete.

Several minutes later Billy put the paper aside with a sigh.

"It's no use," he complained. "I can't read."

"What's the matter?" she teased. "Eyes weak?"

"Nope. They're sore, and there's only one thing to do 'em any good, an'
that's lookin' at you."

"All right, then, baby Billy; I'll be through in a jiffy."

When she had washed the dish towel and scalded out the sink, she took
off her kitchen apron, came to him, and kissed first one eye and then
the other.

"How are they now. Cured?"

"They feel some better already."

She repeated the treatment.

"And now?"

"Still better."

"And now?"

"Almost well."

In his comedies of London life, despite his trend towards caricature,
Jonson has shown himself a genuine realist, drawing from the life
about him with an experience and insight rare in any generation.

A happy comparison has been suggested between Ben Jonson and Charles
Dickens.

Both were men of the people, lowly born and hardly bred.

Each knew the London of his time as few men knew it; and each
represented it intimately and in elaborate detail.

Both men were at heart moralists, seeking the truth by the exaggerated
methods of humour and caricature; perverse, even wrong-headed at times,
but possessed of a true pathos and largeness of heart, and when all
has been said -- though the Elizabethan ran to satire, the Victorian
to sentimentality -- leaving the world better for the art that they
practised in it.

In 1616, the year of the death of Shakespeare, Jonson collected his
plays, his poetry, and his masques for publication in a collective
edition. This was an unusual thing at the time and had been attempted
by no dramatist before Jonson. This volume published, in a carefully
revised text, all the plays thus far mentioned, excepting "The Case is
Altered," which Jonson did not acknowledge, "Bartholomew Fair," and
"The Devil is an Ass," which was written too late.

It included likewise a book of some hundred and thirty odd "Epigrams,"
in which form of brief and pungent writing Jonson was an acknowledged
master; "The Forest," a smaller collection of lyric and occasional
verse and some ten "Masques" and "Entertainments." In this same year
Jonson was made poet laureate with a pension of one hundred marks
a year.

This, with his fees and returns from several noblemen, and the small
earnings of his plays must have formed the bulk of his income.

The poet appears to have done certain literary hack-work for others, as,
for example, parts of the Punic Wars contributed to Raleigh's
"History of the World."

We know from a story, little to the credit of either, that Jonson
accompanied Raleigh's son abroad in the capacity of a tutor.

In 1618 Jonson was granted the reversion of the office of Master of
the Revels, a post for which he was peculiarly fitted; but he did not
live to enjoy its perquisites. Jonson was honoured with degrees by
both universities, though when and under what circumstances is not
known. It has been said that he narrowly escaped the honour of knighthood,
which the satirists of the day averred King James was wont to lavish
with an indiscriminate hand.
Worse men were made knights in his day than worthy Ben Jonson.

From 1616 to the close of the reign of King James, Jonson
produced nothing for the stage. But he "prosecuted" what he calls
"his wonted studies" with such assiduity that he became in reality,
as by report, one of the most learned men of his time.

Jonson's theory of authorship involved a wide acquaintance with books
and "an ability," as he put it, "to convert the substance or riches of
another poet to his own use."

Accordingly Jonson read not only the Greek and Latin classics down to
the lesser writers, but he acquainted himself especially with the Latin
writings of his learned contemporaries, their prose as well as their
poetry, their antiquities and curious lore as well as their more solid
learning.
Though a poor man, Jonson was an indefatigable collector of books.
He told Drummond that "the Earl of Pembroke sent him 20 pounds every first
day of the new year to buy new books." Unhappily, in 1623, his library
was destroyed by fire, an accident serio-comically described in his
witty poem, "An Execration upon Vulcan." Yet even now a book turns
up from time to time in which is inscribed, in fair large Italian
lettering, the name, Ben Jonson. With respect to Jonson's use of his
material, Dryden said memorably of him:
"[He] was not only a professed imitator of Horace, but a learned
plagiary of all the others; you track him everywhere in their
snow....But he has done his robberies so openly that one sees he
fears not to be taxed by any law.

He invades authors like a monarch, and what would be theft in other
poets is only victory in him." And yet it is but fair to say that Jonson
prided himself, and justly, on his originality. In "Catiline," he not
only uses Sallust's account of the conspiracy, but he models some of the
speeches of Cicero on the Roman orator's actual words. In "Poetaster,"
he lifts a whole satire out of Horace and dramatises it effectively
for his purposes.

The sophist Libanius suggests the situation of "The Silent Woman"; a
Latin comedy of Giordano Bruno, "Il Candelaio," the relation of the
dupes and the sharpers in "The Alchemist," the "Mostellaria" of
Plautus, its admirable opening scene. But Jonson commonly bettered his
sources, and putting the stamp of his sovereignty on whatever bullion
he borrowed made it thenceforward to all time current and his
own.

The lyric and especially the occasional poetry of Jonson has a peculiar
merit. His theory demanded design and the perfection of literary finish.
He was furthest from the rhapsodist and the careless singer of an idle
day; and he believed that Apollo could only be worthily served in singing
robes and laurel crowned. And yet many of Jonson's lyrics will live
as long as the language.

Who does not know "Queen and huntress, chaste and fair." "Drink to me
only with thine eyes," or "Still to be neat, still to be dressed"?
Beautiful in form, deft and graceful in expression, with not a word
too much or one that bears not its part in the total effect, there is
yet about the lyrics of Jonson a certain stiffness and formality,
a suspicion that they were not quite spontaneous and unbidden, but
that they were carved, so to speak, with disproportionate labour
by a potent man of letters whose habitual thought is on greater
things.

It is for these reasons that Jonson is even better in the epigram and in
occasional verse where rhetorical finish and pointed wit less
interfere with the spontaneity and emotion which we usually associate
with lyrical poetry.

There are no such epitaphs as Ben Jonson's, witness the charming
ones on his own children, on Salathiel Pavy, the child-actor, and
many more; and this even though the rigid law of mine and thine
must now restore to William Browne of Tavistock the famous lines
beginning: "Underneath this sable hearse."

Jonson is unsurpassed, too, in the difficult poetry of compliment,
seldom falling into fulsome praise and disproportionate similitude,
yet showing again and again a generous appreciation of worth in
others, a discriminating taste and a generous personal regard.

There was no man in England of his rank so well known and universally
beloved as Ben Jonson.

The list of his friends, of those to whom he had written verses,
and those who had written verses to him, includes the name of every
man of prominence in the England of King James.

And the tone of many of these productions discloses an affectionate
familiarity that speaks for the amiable personality and sound worth
of the laureate.

In 1619, growing unwieldy through inactivity, Jonson hit upon the
heroic remedy of a journey afoot to Scotland.

On his way thither and back he was hospitably received at the houses
of many friends and by those to whom his friends had recommended him.
When he arrived in Edinburgh, the burgesses met to grant him the
freedom of the city, and Drummond, foremost of Scottish poets, was
proud to entertain him for weeks as his guest at Hawthornden.

Some of the noblest of Jonson's poems were inspired by friendship.
Such is the fine "Ode to the memory of Sir Lucius Cary and Sir
Henry Moryson," and that admirable piece of critical insight and filial
affection, prefixed to the first Shakespeare folio, "To the memory of
my beloved master, William Shakespeare, and what he hath left us," to
mention only these.

Nor can the earlier "Epode," beginning "Not to know vice at all," be
matched in stately gravity and gnomic wisdom in its own wise and stately
age.

But if Jonson had deserted the stage after the publication of his
folio and up to the end of the reign of King James, he was far from
inactive; for year after year his inexhaustible inventiveness continued
to contribute to the masquing and entertainment at court.
In "The Golden Age Restored," Pallas turns the Iron Age with its
attendant evils into statues which sink out of sight; in "Pleasure
Reconciled to Virtue," Atlas figures represented as an old man, his
shoulders covered with snow, and Comus, "the god of cheer or the
belly," is one of the characters, a circumstance which an imaginative
boy of ten, named John Milton, was not to forget.

"Pan's Anniversary," late in the reign of James, proclaimed that Jonson
had not yet forgotten how to write exquisite lyrics, and "The Gipsies
Metamorphosed" displayed the old drollery and broad humorous stroke
still unimpaired and unmatchable.

These, too, and the earlier years of Charles were the days of the
Apollo Room of the Devil Tavern where Jonson presided, the absolute
monarch of English literary Bohemia. We hear of a room blazoned about
with Jonson's own judicious "Leges Convivales" in letters of gold,
of a company made up of the choicest spirits of the time, devotedly
attached to their veteran dictator, his reminiscences, opinions,
affections, and enmities.

And we hear, too, of valorous potations; but in the words of Herrick
addressed to his master, Jonson, at the Devil Tavern, as at the
Dog, the Triple Tun, and at the Mermaid,
"We such clusters had As made us nobly wild, not mad, And yet each
verse of thine Outdid the meat, outdid the frolic wine."

But the patronage of the court failed in the days of King Charles,
though Jonson was not without royal favours; and the old poet returned
to the stage, producing, between 1625 and 1633, "The Staple of News,"
"The New Inn," "The Magnetic Lady," and "The Tale of a Tub," the last
doubtless revised from a much earlier comedy.
None of these plays met with any marked success, although the scathing
generalisation of Dryden that designated them "Jonson's dotages" is unfair
to their genuine merits. Thus the idea of an office for the gathering,
proper dressing, and promulgation of news (wild flight of the fancy
in its time) was an excellent subject for satire on the existing
absurdities among newsmongers; although as much can hardly be said
for "The Magnetic Lady," who, in her bounty, draws to her personages
of differing humours to reconcile them in the end according to the
alternative title, or "Humours Reconciled."

These last plays of the old dramatist revert to caricature and the hard
lines of allegory; the moralist is more than ever present, the satire
degenerates into personal lampoon, especially of his sometime friend,
Inigo Jones, who appears unworthily to have used his influence at court
against the broken-down old poet. And now disease claimed Jonson, and he
was bedridden for months. He had succeeded Middleton in 1628 as
Chronologer to the City of London, but lost the post for not fulfilling
its duties. King Charles befriended him, and even commissioned him to
write still for the entertainment of the court; and he was not without
the sustaining hand of noble patrons and devoted friends among the
younger poets who were proud to be "sealed of the tribe of Ben."
Jonson died, August 6, 1637, and a second folio of his works, which he
had been some time gathering, was printed in 1640, bearing in its various
parts dates ranging from 1630 to 1642. It included all the plays mentioned
in the foregoing paragraphs, excepting "The Case is Altered;" the masques,
some fifteen, that date between 1617 and 1630; another collection of
lyrics and occasional poetry called "Underwoods, including some
further entertainments; a translation of "Horace's Art of Poetry"
(also published in a vicesimo quarto in 1640), and certain fragments
and ingatherings which the poet would hardly have included himself.

These last comprise the fragment (less than seventy lines) of a tragedy
called "Mortimer his Fall," and three acts of a pastoral drama of much
beauty and poetic spirit, "The Sad Shepherd." There is also the
exceedingly interesting "English Grammar" "made by Ben Jonson for the
benefit of all strangers out of his observation of the English language
now spoken and in use," in Latin and English; and "Timber, or
Discoveries" "made upon men and matter as they have flowed out of
his daily reading, or had their reflux to his peculiar notion of
the times."

The "Discoveries," as it is usually called, is a commonplace book such
as many literary men have kept, in which their reading was chronicled,
passages that took their fancy translated or transcribed, and their
passing opinions noted.

Many passages of Jonson's "Discoveries" are literal translations from
the authors he chanced to be reading, with the reference, noted
or not, as the accident of the moment prescribed.

At times he follows the line of Macchiavelli's argument as to the
nature and conduct of princes; at others he clarifies his own
conception of poetry and poets by recourse to Aristotle.

He finds a choice paragraph on eloquence in Seneca the elder and
applies it to his own recollection of Bacon's power as an orator;
and another on facile and ready genius, and translates it, adapting
it to his recollection of his fellow-playwright, Shakespeare.

To call such passages -- which Jonson never intended for publication --
plagiarism, is to obscure the significance of words. To disparage his
memory by citing them is a preposterous use of scholarship.

Jonson's prose, both in his dramas, in the descriptive comments of
his masques, and in the "Discoveries," is characterised by clarity
and vigorous directness, nor is it wanting in a fine sense of form
or in the subtler graces of diction.

When Jonson died there was a project for a handsome monument to
his memory. But the Civil War was at hand, and the project failed. A
memorial, not insufficient, was carved on the stone covering his grave
in one of the aisles of Westminster Abbey:

"O rare Ben Jonson."

FELIX E. SCHELLING.

THE COLLEGE, PHILADELPHIA, U.S.A.

The following is a complete list of his published works: --
DRAMAS:
Every Man in his Humour, 4to, 1601; The Case is Altered, 4to, 1609; Every
Man out of his Humour, 4to, 1600; Cynthia's Revels, 4to, 1601;
Poetaster, 4to, 1602; Sejanus, 4to, 1605; Eastward Ho (with Chapman
and Marston), 4to, 1605; Volpone, 4to, 1607; Epicoene, or the Silent
Woman, 4to, 1609 (?)

, fol., 1616; The Alchemist, 4to, 1612; Catiline, his Conspiracy,
4to, 1611; Bartholomew Fayre, 4to, 1614 (?)

, fol., 1631; The Divell is an Asse, fol., 1631; The Staple of Newes, fol.,
1631; The New Sun, 8vo, 1631, fol., 1692; The Magnetic Lady, or
Humours Reconcild, fol., 1640; A Tale of a Tub, fol., 1640; The Sad
Shepherd, or a Tale of Robin Hood, fol., 1641; Mortimer his Fall
(fragment), fol., 1640.

To Jonson have also been attributed additions to Kyd's Jeronymo, and
collaboration in The Widow with Fletcher and Middleton, and in the
Bloody Brother with Fletcher.

POEMS:
Epigrams, The Forrest, Underwoods, published in fols., 1616, 1640;
Selections: Execration against Vulcan, and Epigrams, 1640; G. Hor.
Flaccus his art of Poetry, Englished by Ben Jonson, 1640; Leges
Convivialis, fol., 1692.
Other minor poems first appeared in Gifford's edition of Works.

PROSE:
Timber, or Discoveries made upon Men and Matter, fol., 1641; The English
Grammar, made by Ben Jonson for the benefit of Strangers, fol., 1640.

Masques and Entertainments were published in the early folios.

WORKS:
Fol., 1616, volume. 2, 1640 (1631-41); fol., 1692, 1716-19, 1729; edited
by P.

Whalley, 7 volumes., 1756; by Gifford (with Memoir), 9 volumes., 1816,
1846; re-edited by F. Cunningham, 3 volumes., 1871; in 9 volumes., 1875;
by Barry Cornwall (with Memoir), 1838; by B. Nicholson (Mermaid Series),
with Introduction by C. H. Herford, 1893, etc.; Nine Plays, 1904;
ed. H. C. Hart (Standard Library), 1906, etc; Plays and Poems, with
Introduction by H. Morley (Universal Library), 1885; Plays (7)
and Poems (Newnes), 1905; Poems, with Memoir by H. Bennett (Carlton
Classics), 1907; Masques and Entertainments, ed. by H. Morley, 1890.

SELECTIONS:
J. A.

Symonds, with Biographical and Critical Essay, (Canterbury Poets), 1886;
Grosart, Brave Translunary Things, 1895; Arber, Jonson Anthology, 1901;
Underwoods, Cambridge University Press, 1905; Lyrics (Jonson, Beaumont
and Fletcher), the Chap Books, No. 4, 1906; Songs (from Plays, Masques,
etc.), with earliest known setting, Eragny Press, 1906.

LIFE:
See Memoirs affixed to Works; J. A. Symonds (English Worthies), 1886;
Notes of Ben Jonson Conversations with Drummond of Hawthornden;
Shakespeare Society, 1842; ed. with Introduction and Notes by P.

Sidney, 1906; Swinburne, A Study of Ben Jonson, 1889.

***

BEN JONSON'S PLAYS

EPICOENE; OR, THE SILENT WOMAN

BY BEN JONSON

***

BEN JONSON'S PLAYS

EPICOENE; OR, THE SILENT WOMAN BY BEN JONSON

TO THE TRULY NOBLE BY ALL TITLES 
SIR FRANCIS STUART 
Sir,
My hope is not so nourished by example, as it will conclude, this
dumb piece should please you, because it hath pleased others before;
but by trust, that when you have read it, you will find it worthy
to have displeased none.

This makes that I now number you, not only in the names of favour,
but the names of justice to what I write; and do presently call you
to the exercise of that noblest, and manliest virtue; as coveting
rather to be freed in my fame, by the authority of a judge, than
the credit of an undertaker.

Read, therefore, I pray you, and censure.

There is not a line, or syllable in it, changed from the simplicity
of the first copy. And, when you shall consider, through the certain
hatred of some, how much a man's innocency may be endangered by an
uncertain accusation; you will, I doubt not, so begin to hate the
iniquity of such natures, as I shall love the contumely done me, whose
end was so honourable as to be wiped off by your sentence.

Your unprofitable, but true Lover,
BEN JONSON.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE:

MOROSE, a Gentleman that loves no noise.

SIR DAUPHINE EUGENIE, a Knight, his Nephew.

NED CLERIMONT, a Gentleman, his Friend.

TRUEWIT, another Friend.

SIR JOHN DAW, a Knight.

SIR AMOROUS LA-FOOLE, a Knight also.

THOMAS OTTER, a Land and Sea Captain.

CUTBEARD, a Barber.

MUTE, one of MOROSE's Servants.

PARSON.

Page to CLERIMONT.

EPICOENE, supposed the Silent Woman.

LADY HAUGHTY, LADY CENTAURE, MISTRESS DOL MAVIS, Ladies Collegiates.

MISTRESS OTTER, the Captain's Wife, MISTRESS TRUSTY, LADY HAUGHTY'S Woman,
Pretenders.

Pages, Servants, etc.

SCENE -- LONDON.

PROLOGUE
Truth says, of old the art of making plays Was to content the people;
and their praise Was to the poet money, wine, and bays.

But in this age, a sect of writers are, That, only, for particular
likings care, And will taste nothing that is popular.

With such we mingle neither brains nor breasts; Our wishes,
like to those make public feasts, Are not to please the cook's
taste, but the guests'.

Yet, if those cunning palates hither come, They shall find guests' entreaty,
and good room; And though all relish not, sure there will be some,
That, when they leave their seats, shall make them say, Who wrote that
piece, could so have wrote a play, But that he knew this was the better
way.

For, to present all custard, or all tart, And have no other meats, to
bear a part.

Or to want bread, and salt, were but course art.

The poet prays you then, with better thought To sit; and, when his
cates are all in brought, Though there be none far-fet, there will
dear-bought,
Be fit for ladies: some for lords, knights, 'squires; Some for your
waiting-wench, and city-wires; Some for your men, and daughters of
Whitefriars.

Nor is it, only, while you keep your seat Here, that his feast will last;
but you shall eat A week at ord'naries, on his broken meat:
If his muse be true, Who commends her to you.

ANOTHER.

The ends of all, who for the scene do write, Are, or should be, to
profit and delight.
And still't hath been the praise of all best times, So persons were not
touch'd, to tax the crimes.

Then, in this play, which we present to-night, And make the object
of your ear and sight, On forfeit of yourselves, think nothing
true:
Lest so you make the maker to judge you, For he knows, poet never
credit gain'd By writing truths, but things (like truths) well
feign'd.

If any yet will, with particular sleight Of application, wrest what he
doth write; And that he meant, or him, or her, will say:
They make a libel, which he made a play.

ACT 1. SCENE 1.1.

A ROOM IN CLERIMONT'S HOUSE.

ENTER CLERIMONT, MAKING HIMSELF READY, FOLLOWED BY HIS PAGE.

CLER: Have you got the song yet perfect, I gave you, boy?

PAGE: Yes, sir.

CLER: Let me hear it.

PAGE: You shall, sir, but i'faith let nobody else.

CLER: Why, I pray?

PAGE: It will get you the dangerous name of a poet in town, sir; besides
me a perfect deal of ill-will at the mansion you wot of, whose lady
is the argument of it; where now I am the welcomest thing under a
man that comes there.

CLER: I think, and above a man too, if the truth were rack'd out of
you.

PAGE: No, faith, I'll confess before, sir. The gentlewomen play with
me, and throw me on the bed; and carry me in to my lady; and she
kisses me with her oil'd face; and puts a peruke on my head; and asks
me an I will wear her gown? and I say, no: and then she hits me a blow
o' the ear, and calls me Innocent! and lets me go.

CLER: No marvel if the door be kept shut against your master,
when the entrance is so easy to you--well sir, you shall go there
no more, lest I be fain to seek your voice in my lady's rushes, a
fortnight hence. Sing, sir.

PAGE [SINGS]: Still to be neat, still to be drest--
[ENTER TRUEWIT.]
TRUE: Why, here's the man that can melt away his time and never feels
it!

What between his mistress abroad, and his ingle at home, high fare,
soft lodging, fine clothes, and his fiddle; he thinks the hours have
no wings, or the day no post-horse. Well, sir gallant, were you struck
with the plague this minute, or condemn'd to any capital punishment
to-morrow, you would begin then to think, and value every article of
your time, esteem it at the true rate, and give all for it.

CLER: Why what should a man do?

TRUE: Why, nothing; or that which, when it is done, is as idle.

Harken after the next horse-race or hunting-match; lay wagers, praise
Puppy, or Pepper-corn, White-foot, Franklin; swear upon Whitemane's
party; speak aloud, that my lords may hear you; visit my ladies at
night, and be able to give them the character of every bowler or better
on the green. These be the things wherein your fashionable men exercise
themselves, and I for company.

CLER: Nay, if I have thy authority, I'll not leave yet. Come, the
other are considerations, when we come to have gray heads and weak
hams, moist eyes and shrunk members. We'll think on 'em then; and
we'll pray and fast.

TRUE: Ay, and destine only that time of age to goodness, which our want
of ability will not let us employ in evil!

CLER: Why, then 'tis time enough.

TRUE: Yes; as if a man should sleep all the term, and think to effect
his business the last day. O, Clerimont, this time, because it is an
incorporeal thing, and not subject to sense, we mock ourselves the
fineliest out of it, with vanity and misery indeed!

not seeking an end of wretchedness, but only changing the matter still.

CLER: Nay, thou wilt not leave now--
TRUE: See but our common disease! with what justice can we complain, that
great men will not look upon us, nor be at leisure to give our affairs
such dispatch as we expect, when we will never do it to ourselves?
nor hear, nor regard ourselves?
CLER: Foh! thou hast read Plutarch's morals, now, or some such
tedious fellow; and it shews so vilely with thee! 'fore God, 'twill
spoil thy wit utterly. Talk me of pins, and feathers, and ladies,
and rushes, and such things: and leave this Stoicity alone, till
thou mak'st sermons.
TRUE: Well, sir; if it will not take, I have learn'd to lose as
little of my kindness as I can. I'll do good to no man against his
will, certainly. When were you at the college?
CLER: What college?

TRUE: As if you knew not!
CLER: No faith, I came but from court yesterday.
TRUE: Why, is it not arrived there yet, the news? A new foundation,
sir, here in the town, of ladies, that call themselves the collegiates,
an order between courtiers and country-madams, that live from their
husbands; and give entertainment to all the wits, and braveries of
the time, as they call them: cry down, or up, what they like or
dislike in a brain or a fashion, with most masculine, or rather
hermaphroditical authority; and every day gain to their college
some new probationer.You must be a garden
of flowers, ever new, ever fresh, ever different. And in your garden the
man must never pluck the last of your posies.

"Listen, little wife-woman. In the garden of love is a snake. It is the
commonplace. Stamp on its head, or it will destroy the garden. Remember
the name. Commonplace. Never be too intimate. Men only seem gross. Women
are more gross than men.--No, do not argue, little new-wife. You are an
infant woman. Women are less delicate than men. Do I not know? Of their
own husbands they will relate the most intimate love-secrets to other
women. Men never do this of their wives. Explain it. There is only one
way. In all things of love women are less delicate. It is their mistake.
It is the father and the mother of the commonplace, and it is the
commonplace, like a loathsome slug, that beslimes and destroys love.

"Be delicate, little wife-woman. Never be without your veil, without
many veils. Veil yourself in a thousand veils, all shimmering and
glittering with costly textures and precious jewels. Never let the last
veil be drawn. Against the morrow array yourself with more veils, ever
more veils, veils without end. Yet the many veils must not seem many.
Each veil must seem the only one between you and your hungry lover who
will have nothing less than all of you. Each time he must seem to get
all, to tear aside the last veil that hides you. He must think so. It
must not be so. Then there will be no satiety, for on the morrow he will
find another last veil that has escaped him.

"Remember, each veil must seem the last and only one. Always you must
seem to abandon all to his arms; always you must reserve more that on
the morrow and on all the morrows you may abandon. Of such is variety,
surprise, so that your man's pursuit will be everlasting, so that his
eyes will look to you for newness, and not to other women. It was the
freshness and the newness' of your beauty and you, the mystery of you,
that won your man. When a man has plucked and smelled all the sweetness
of a flower, he looks for other flowers. It is his queerness. You must
ever remain a flower almost plucked yet never plucked, stored with vats
of sweet unbroached though ever broached.

"Stupid women, and all are stupid, think the first winning of the man
the final victory. Then they settle down and grow fat, and state,
and dead, and heartbroken. Alas, they are so stupid. But you, little
infant-woman with your first victory, you must make your love-life an
unending chain of victories. Each day you must win your man again. And
when you have won the last victory, when you can find no more to win,
then ends love. Finis is written, and your man wanders in strange
gardens. Remember, love must be kept insatiable. It must have an
appetite knife-edged and never satisfied. You must feed your lover well,
ah, very well, most well; give, give, yet send him away hungry to come
back to you for more."

Mrs. Higgins stood up suddenly and crossed out of the room. Saxon had
not failed to note the litheness and grace in that lean and withered
body. She watched for Mrs. Higgins' return, and knew that the litheness
and grace had not been imagined.

"Scarcely have I told you the first letter in love's alphabet," said
Mercedes Higgins, as she reseated herself.

In her hands was a tiny instrument, beautifully grained and richly
brown, which resembled a guitar save that it bore four strings. She
swept them back and forth with rhythmic forefinger and lifted a voice,
thin and mellow, in a fashion of melody that was strange, and in a
foreign tongue, warm-voweled, all-voweled, and love-exciting. Softly
throbbing, voice and strings arose on sensuous crests of song, died away
to whisperings and caresses, drifted through love-dusks and twilights,
or swelled again to love-cries barbarically imperious in which were
woven plaintive calls and madnesses of invitation and promise. It went
through Saxon until she was as this instrument, swept with passional
strains. It seemed to her a dream, and almost was she dizzy, when
Mercedes Higgins ceased.

"If your man had clasped the last of you, and if all of you were known
to him as an old story, yet, did you sing that one song, as I have sung
it, yet would his arms again go out to you and his eyes grow warm with
the old mad lights. Do you see? Do you understand, little wife-woman?"

Saxon could only nod, her lips too dry for speech.

"The golden koa, the king of woods," Mercedes was crooning over the
instrument. "The ukulele--that is what the Hawaiians call it, which
means, my dear, the jumping flea. They are golden-fleshed, the
Hawalians, a race of lovers, all in the warm cool of the tropic night
where the trade winds blow."

Again she struck the strings. She sang in another language, which
Saxon deemed must be French. It was a gayly-devilish lilt, tripping
and tickling. Her large eyes at times grew larger and wilder, and again
narrowed in enticement and wickedness. When she ended, she looked to
Saxon for a verdict.

"I don't like that one so well," Saxon said.

Mercedes shrugged her shoulders.

"They all have their worth, little infant-woman with so much to learn.
There are times when men may be won with wine. There are times when
men may be won with the wine of song, so queer they are. La la, so many
ways, so many ways. There are your pretties, my dear, your dainties.
They are magic nets. No fisherman upon the sea ever tangled fish more
successfully than we women with our flimsies. You are on the right path.
I have seen men enmeshed by a corset cover no prettier, no daintier,
than these of yours I have seen on the line.

"I have called the washing of fine linen an art. But it is not for
itself alone. The greatest of the arts is the conquering of men. Love
is the sum of all the arts, as it is the reason for their existence.
Listen. In all times and ages have been women, great wise women. They
did not need to be beautiful. Greater then all woman's beauty was their
wisdom. Princes end potentates bowed down before them. Nations battled
over them. Empires crashed because of them. Religions were founded
on them. Aphrodite, Astarte, the worships of the night--listen,
infant-woman, of the great women who conquered worlds of men."

And thereafter Saxon listened, in a maze, to what almost seemed a wild
farrago, save that the strange meaningless phrases were fraught with
dim, mysterious significance. She caught glimmerings of profounds
inexpressible and unthinkable that hinted connotations lawless and
terrible. The woman's speech was a lava rush, scorching and searing;
and Saxon's cheeks, and forehead, and neck burned with a blush that
continuously increased. She trembled with fear, suffered qualms of
nausea, thought sometimes that she would faint, so madly reeled her
brain; yet she could not tear herself away, sad sat on and on, her
sewing forgotten on her lap, staring with inward sight upon a nightmare
vision beyond all imagining. At last, when it seemed she could endure
no more, and while she was wetting her dry lips to cry out in protest,
Mercedes ceased.

"And here endeth the first lesson," she said quite calmly, then laughed
with a laughter that was tantalizing and tormenting. "What is the
matter? You are not shocked?"

"I am frightened," Saxon quavered huskily, with a half-sob of
nervousness. "You frighten me. I am very foolish, and I know so little,
that I had never dreamed... THAT."

Mercedes nodded her head comprehendingly.

"It is indeed to be frightened at," she said. "It is solemn; it is
terrible; it is magnificent!"


CHAPTER IV

Saxon had been clear-eyed all her days, though her field of vision
had been restricted. Clear-eyed, from her childhood days with the
saloonkeeper Cady and Cady's good-natured but unmoral spouse, she
had observed, and, later, generalized much upon sex. She knew the
post-nuptial problem of retaining a husband's love, as few wives of any
class knew it, just as she knew the pre-nuptial problem of selecting a
husband, as few girls of the working class knew it.

She had of herself developed an eminently rational philosophy of love.
Instinctively, and consciously, too, she had made toward delicacy, and
shunned the perils of the habitual and commonplace. Thoroughly aware she
was that as she cheapened herself so did she cheapen love. Never, in
the weeks of their married life, had Billy found her dowdy, or harshly
irritable, or lethargic. And she had deliberately permeated her
house with her personal atmosphere of coolness, and freshness, and
equableness. Nor had she been ignorant of such assets as surprise and
charm. Her imagination had not been asleep, and she had been born with
wisdom. In Billy she had won a prize, and she knew it. She appreciated
his lover's ardor and was proud. His open-handed liberality, his desire
for everything of the best, his own personal cleanliness and care of
himself she recognized as far beyond the average. He was never coarse.
He met delicacy with delicacy, though it was obvious to her that the
initiative in all such matters lay with her and must lie with her
always. He was largely unconscious of what he did and why. But she knew
in all full clarity of judgment. And he was such a prize among men.

Despite her clear sight of her problem of keeping Billy a lover, and
despite the considerable knowledge and experience arrayed before her
mental vision, Mercedes Higgins had spread before her a vastly wider
panorama. The old woman had verified her own conclusions, given her
new ideas, clinched old ones, and even savagely emphasized the tragic
importance of the whole problem. Much Saxon remembered of that mad
preachment, much she guessed and felt, and much had been beyond her
experience and understanding. But the metaphors of the veils and the
flowers, and the rules of giving to abandonment with always more to
abandon, she grasped thoroughly, and she was enabled to formulate a
bigger and stronger love-philosophy. In the light of the revelation she
re-examined the married lives of all she had ever known, and, with sharp
definiteness as never before, she saw where and why so many of them had
failed.

With renewed ardor Saxon devoted herself to her household, to her
pretties, and to her charms. She marketed with a keener desire for the
best, though never ignoring the need for economy. From the women's pages
of the Sunday supplements, and from the women's magazines in the
free reading room two blocks away, she gleaned many ideas for the
preservation of her looks. In a systematic way she exercised the various
parts of her body, and a certain period of time each day she employed in
facial exercises and massage for the purpose of retaining the roundness
and freshness, and firmness and color. Billy did not know. These
intimacies of the toilette were not for him. The results, only, were
his. She drew books from the Carnegie Library and studied physiology and
hygiene, and learned a myriad of things about herself and the ways of
woman's health that she had never been taught by Sarah, the women of the
orphan asylum, nor by Mrs. Cady.

After long debate she subscribed to a woman's magazine, the patterns
and lessons of which she decided were the best suited to her taste and
purse. The other woman's magazines she had access to in the free reading
room, and more than one pattern of lace and embroidery she copied by
means of tracing paper. Before the lingerie windows of the uptown shops
she often stood and studied; nor was she above taking advantage,
when small purchases were made, of looking over the goods at the
hand-embroidered underwear counters. Once, she even considered taking
up with hand-painted china, but gave over the idea when she learned its
expensiveness.

She slowly replaced all her simple maiden underlinen with garments
which, while still simple, were wrought with beautiful French
embroidery, tucks, and drawnwork. She crocheted fine edgings on the
inexpensive knitted underwear she wore in winter. She made little corset
covers and chemises of fine but fairly inexpensive lawns, and, with
simple flowered designs and perfect laundering, her nightgowns were
always sweetly fresh and dainty. In some publication she ran across a
brief printed note to the effect that French women were just beginning
to wear fascinating beruffled caps at the breakfast table. It meant
nothing to her that in her case she must first prepare the breakfast.
Promptly appeared in the house a yard of dotted Swiss muslin, and Saxon
was deep in experimenting on patterns for herself, and in sorting her
bits of laces for suitable trimmings. The resultant dainty creation won
Mercedes Higgins' enthusiastic approval.

Saxon made for herself simple house slips of pretty gingham, with neat
low collars turned back from her fresh round throat. She crocheted yards
of laces for her underwear, and made Battenberg in abundance for her
table and for the bureau. A great achievement, that aroused Billy's
applause, was an Afghan for the bed. She even ventured a rag carpet,
which, the women's magazines informed her, had newly returned into
fashion. As a matter of course she hemstitched the best table linen and
bed linen they could afford.

As the happy months went by she was never idle. Nor was Billy forgotten.
When the cold weather came on she knitted him wristlets, which he always
religiously wore from the house and pocketed immediately thereafter. The
two sweaters she made for him, however, received a better fate, as did
the slippers which she insisted on his slipping into, on the evenings
they remained at home.

The hard practical wisdom of Mercedes Higgins proved of immense help,
for Saxon strove with a fervor almost religious to have everything of
the best and at the same time to be saving. Here she faced the financial
and economic problem of keeping house in a society where the cost of
living rose faster than the wages of industry. And here the old woman
taught her the science of marketing so thoroughly that she made a dollar
of Billy's go half as far again as the wives of the neighborhood made
the dollars of their men go.

Invariably, on Saturday night, Billy poured his total wages into her
lap. He never asked for an accounting of what she did with it, though
he continually reiterated that he had never fed so well in his life. And
always, the wages still untouched in her lap, she had him take out what
he estimated he would need for spending money for the week to come.
Not only did she bid him take plenty but she insisted on his taking any
amount extra that he might desire at any time through the week. And,
further, she insisted he should not tell her what it was for.

"You've always had money in your pocket," she reminded him, "and there's
no reason marriage should change that. If it did, I'd wish I'd never
married you. Oh, I know about men when they get together. First one
treats and then another, and it takes money. Now if you can't treat just
as freely as the rest of them, why I know you so well that I know you'd
stay away from them. And that wouldn't be right... to you, I mean. I
want you to be together with men. It's good for a man."

And Billy buried her in his arms and swore she was the greatest little
bit of woman that ever came down the pike.

"Why," he jubilated; "not only do I feed better, and live more
comfortable, and hold up my end with the fellows; but I'm actually
saving money--or you are for me. Here I am, with furniture being paid
for regular every month, and a little woman I'm mad over, and on top of
it money in the bank. How much is it now?"

"Sixty-two dollars," she told him. "Not so bad for a rainy day. You
might get sick, or hurt, or something happen."

It was in mid-winter, when Billy, with quite a deal of obvious
reluctance, broached a money matter to Saxon. His old friend, Billy
Murphy, was laid up with la grippe, and one of his children, playing in
the street, had been seriously injured by a passing wagon. Billy Murphy,
still feeble after two weeks in bed, had asked Billy for the loan of
fifty dollars.

"It's perfectly safe," Billy concluded to Saxon. "I've known him since
we was kids at the Durant School together. He's straight as a die."

"That's got nothing to do with it," Saxon chided. "If you were single
you'd have lent it to him immediately, wouldn't you?"

Billy nodded.

"Then it's no different because you're married. It's your money, Billy."

"Not by a damn sight," he cried. "It ain't mine. It's ourn. And I
wouldn't think of lettin' anybody have it without seein' you first."

"I hope you didn't tell him that," she said with quick concern.

"Nope," Billy laughed. "I knew, if I did, you'd be madder'n a hatter.
I just told him I'd try an' figure it out. After all, I was sure you'd
stand for it if you had it."

"Oh, Billy," she murmured, her voice rich and low with love; "maybe you
don't know it, but that's one of the sweetest things you've said since
we got married."

The more Saxon saw of Mercedes Higgins the less did she understand her.
That the old woman was a close-fisted miser, Saxon soon learned. And
this trait she found hard to reconcile with her tales of squandering.
On the other hand, Saxon was bewildered by Mercedes' extravagance in
personal matters. Her underlinen, hand-made of course, was very costly.
The table she set for Barry was good, but the table for herself was
vastly better. Yet both tables were set on the same table. While Barry
contented himself with solid round steak, Mercedes ate tenderloin. A
huge, tough muttonchop on Barry's plate would be balanced by tiny
French chops on Mercedes' plate. Tea was brewed in separate pots. So was
coffee. While Barry gulped twenty-five cent tea from a large and heavy
mug, Mercedes sipped three-dollar tea from a tiny cup of Belleek,
rose-tinted, fragile as all egg-shell. In the same manner, his
twenty-five cent coffee was diluted with milk, her eighty cent Turkish
with cream.

"'Tis good enough for the old man," she told Saxon. "He knows no better,
and it would be a wicked sin to waste it on him."

Little traffickings began between the two women. After Mercedes had
freely taught Saxon the loose-wristed facility of playing accompaniments
on the ukulele, she proposed an exchange. Her time was past, she said,
for such frivolities, and she offered the instrument for the breakfast
cap of which Saxon had made so good a success.

"It's worth a few dollars," Mercedes said. "It cost me twenty, though
that was years ago. Yet it is well worth the value of the cap."

"But wouldn't the cap be frivolous, too?" Saxon queried, though herself
well pleased with the bargain.

"'Tis not for my graying hair," Mercedes frankly disclaimed. "I shall
sell it for the money. Much that I do, when the rheumatism is not
maddening my fingers, I sell. La la, my dear, 'tis not old Barry's fifty
a month that'll satisfy all my expensive tastes. 'Tis I that make up the
difference. And old age needs money as never youth needs it. Some day
you will learn for yourself."

"I am well satisfied with the trade," Saxon said. "And I shall make me
another cap when I can lay aside enough for the material."

"Make several," Mercedes advised. "I'll sell them for you, keeping, of
course, a small commission for my services. I can give you six dollars
apiece for them. We will consult about them. The profit will more than
provide material for your own."


CHAPTER V

Four eventful things happened in the course of the winter. Bert and Mary
got married and rented a cottage in the neighborhood three blocks away.
Billy's wages were cut, along with the wages of all the teamsters in
Oakland. Billy took up shaving with a safety razor. And, finally, Saxon
was proven a false prophet and Sarah a true one.

Saxon made up her mind, beyond any doubt, ere she confided the news
to Billy. At first, while still suspecting, she had felt a frightened
sinking of the heart and fear of the unknown and unexperienced. Then had
come economic fear, as she contemplated the increased expense entailed.
But by the time she had made surety doubly sure, all was swept away
before a wave of passionate gladness. HERS AND BILLY'S! The phrase was
continually in her mind, and each recurrent thought of it brought an
actual physical pleasure-pang to her heart.

The night she told the news to Billy, he withheld his own news of the
wage-cut, and joined with her in welcoming the little one.

"What'll we do? Go to the theater to celebrate?" he asked, relaxing the
pressure of his embrace so that she might speak. "Or suppose we stay in,
just you and me, and... and the three of us?"

"Stay in," was her verdict. "I just want you to hold me, and hold me,
and hold me."

"That's what I wanted, too, only I wasn't sure, after bein' in the house
all day, maybe you'd want to go out."

There was frost in the air, and Billy brought the Morris chair in by the
kitchen stove. She lay cuddled in his arms, her head on his shoulder,
his cheek against her hair.

"We didn't make no mistake in our lightning marriage with only a week's
courtin'," he reflected aloud. "Why, Saxon, we've been courtin' ever
since just the same. And now... my God, Saxon, it's too wonderful to be
true. Think of it! Ourn! The three of us! The little rascal! I bet he's
goin' to be a boy. An' won't I learn 'm to put up his fists an' take
care of himself! An' swimmin' too. If he don't know how to swim by the
time he's six..."

"And if HE'S a girl?"

"SHE'S goin' to be a boy," Billy retorted, joining in the playful misuse
of pronouns.

And both laughed and kissed, and sighed with content. "I'm goin' to turn
pincher, now," he announced, after quite an interval of meditation. "No
more drinks with the boys. It's me for the water wagon. And I'm goin' to
ease down on smokes. Huh! Don't see why I can't roll my own cigarettes.
They're ten times cheaper'n tailor-mades. An' I can grow a beard. The
amount of money the barbers get out of a fellow in a year would keep a
baby."

"Just you let your beard grow, Mister Roberts, and I'll get a divorce,"
Saxon threatened. "You're just too handsome and strong with a smooth
face. I love your face too much to have it covered up.--Oh, you dear!
you dear! Billy, I never knew what happiness was until I came to live
with you."

"Nor me neither."

"And it's always going to be so?"

"You can just bet," he assured her.

"I thought I was going to be happy married," she went on; "but I never
dreamed it would be like this." She turned her head on his shoulder and
kissed his cheek. "Billy, it isn't happiness. It's heaven."

And Billy resolutely kept undivulged the cut in wages. Not until two
weeks later, when it went into effect, and he poured the diminished
sum into her lap, did he break it to her. The next day, Bert and Mary,
already a month married, had Sunday dinner with them, and the matter
came up for discussion. Bert was particularly pessimistic, and muttered
dark hints of an impending strike in the railroad shops.

"If you'd all shut your traps, it'd be all right," Mary criticized.
"These union agitators get the railroad sore. They give me the cramp,
the way they butt in an' stir up trouble. If I was boss I'd cut the
wages of any man that listened to them."

"Yet you belonged to the laundry workers' union," Saxon rebuked gently.

"Because I had to or I wouldn't a-got work. An' much good it ever done
me."

"But look at Billy," Bert argued "The teamsters ain't ben sayin' a word,
not a peep, an' everything lovely, and then, bang, right in the neck,
a ten per cent cut. Oh, hell, what chance have we got? We lose. There's
nothin' left for us in this country we've made and our fathers an'
mothers before us. We're all shot to pieces. We Can see our finish--we,
the old stock, the children of the white people that broke away from
England an' licked the tar outa her, that freed the slaves, an' fought
the Indians, 'an made the West! Any gink with half an eye can see it
comin'."

"But what are we going to do about it?" Saxon questioned anxiously.

"Fight. That's all. The country's in the hands of a gang of robbers.
Look at the Southern Pacific. It runs California."

"Aw, rats, Bert," Billy interrupted. "You're takin' through your lid. No
railroad can ran the government of California."

"You're a bonehead," Bert sneered. "And some day, when it's too late,
you an' all the other boneheads'll realize the fact. Rotten? I tell you
it stinks. Why, there ain't a man who wants to go to state legislature
but has to make a trip to San Francisco, an' go into the S. P. offices,
an' take his hat off, an' humbly ask permission. Why, the governors of
California has been railroad governors since before you and I was born.
Huh! You can't tell me. We're finished. We're licked to a frazzle. But
it'd do my heart good to help string up some of the dirty thieves before
I passed out. D'ye know what we are?--we old white stock that fought in
the wars, an' broke the land, an' made all this? I'll tell you. We're
the last of the Mohegans."

"He scares me to death, he's so violent," Mary said with unconcealed
hostility. "If he don't quit shootin' off his mouth he'll get fired from
the shops. And then what'll we do? He don't consider me. But I can tell
you one thing all right, all right. I'll not go back to the laundry."
She held her right hand up and spoke with the solemnity of an oath. "Not
so's you can see it. Never again for yours truly."

"Oh, I know what you're drivin' at," Bert said with asperity. "An' all I
can tell you is, livin' or dead, in a job or out, no matter what happens
to me, if you will lead that way, you will, an' there's nothin' else to
it."

"I guess I kept straight before I met you," she came back with a toss of
the head. "And I kept straight after I met you, which is going some if
anybody should ask you."

Hot words were on Bert's tongue, but Saxon intervened and brought about
peace. She was concerned over the outcome of their marriage. Both were
highstrung, both were quick and irritable, and their continual clashes
did not augur well for their future.

The safety razor was a great achievement for Saxon. Privily she
conferred with a clerk she knew in Pierce's hardware store and made the
purchase. On Sunday morning, after breakfast, when Billy was starting
to go to the barber shop, she led him into the bedroom, whisked a towel
aside, and revealed the razor box, shaving mug, soap, brush, and lather
all ready. Billy recoiled, then came back to make curious investigation.
He gazed pityingly at the safety razor.

"Huh! Call that a man's tool!"

"It'll do the work," she said. "It does it for thousands of men every
day."

But Billy shook his head and backed away.

"You shave three times a week," she urged. "That's forty-five cents.
Call it half a dollar, and there are fifty-two weeks in the year.
Twenty-six dollars a year just for shaving. Come on, dear, and try it.
Lots of men swear by it."

He shook his head mutinously, and the cloudy deeps of his eyes grew more
cloudy. She loved that sullen handsomeness that made him look so boyish,
and, laughing and kissing him, she forced him into a chair, got off his
coat, and unbuttoned shirt and undershirt and turned them in.

Threatening him with, "If you open your mouth to kick I'll shove it in,"
she coated his face with lather.

"Wait a minute," she checked him, as he reached desperately for the
razor. "I've been watching the barbers from the sidewalk. This is what
they do after the lather is on."

And thereupon she proceeded to rub the lather in with her fingers.

"There," she said, when she had coated his face a second time. "You're
ready to begin. Only remember, I'm not always going to do this for you.
I'm just breaking you in, you see."

With great outward show of rebellion, half genuine, half facetious, he
made several tentative scrapes with the razor. He winced violently, and
violently exclaimed:

"Holy jumping Jehosaphat!"

He examined his face in the glass, and a streak of blood showed in the
midst of the lather.

"Cut!--by a safety razor, by God! Sure, men swear by it. Can't blame
'em. Cut! By a safety!"

"But wait a second," Saxon pleaded. "They have to be regulated. The
clerk told me. See those little screws. There.... That's it... turn them
around."

Again Billy applied the blade to his face. After a couple of scrapes, he
looked at himself closely in the mirror, grinned, and went on shaving.
With swiftness and dexterity he scraped his face clean of lather. Saxon
clapped her hands.

"Fine," Billy approved. "Great! Here. Give me your hand. See what a good
job it made."

He started to rub her hand against his cheek. Saxon jerked away with a
little cry of disappointment, then examined him closely.

"It hasn't shaved at all," she said.

"It's a fake, that's what it is. It cuts the hide, but not the hair. Me
for the barber."

But Saxon was persistent.

"You haven't given it a fair trial yet. It was regulated too much. Let
me try my hand at it. There, that's it, betwixt and between. Now, lather
again and try it."

This time the unmistakable sand-papery sound of hair-severing could be
heard.

"How is it?" she fluttered anxiously.

"It gets the--ouch!--hair," Billy grunted, frowning and making faces.
"But it--gee!--say!--ouch!--pulls like Sam Hill."

"Stay with it," she encouraged. "Don't give up the ship, big Injun with
a scalplock. Remember what Bert says and be the last of the Mohegans."

At the end of fifteen minutes he rinsed his face and dried it, sighing
with relief.

"It's a shave, in a fashion, Saxon, but I can't say I'm stuck on it. It
takes out the nerve. I'm as weak as a cat."

He groaned with sudden discovery of fresh misfortune.

"What's the matter now?" she asked.

"The back of my neck--how can I shave the back of my neck? I'll have to
pay a barber to do it."

Saxon's consternation was tragic, but it only lasted a moment. She took
the brush in her hand.

"Sit down, Billy."

"What?--you?" he demanded indignantly.

"Yes; me. If any barber is good enough to shave your neck, and then I
am, too."

Billy moaned and groaned in the abjectness of humility and surrender,
and let her have her way.

"There, and a good job," she informed him when she had finished. "As
easy as falling off a log. And besides, it means twenty-six dollars a
year. And you'll buy the crib, the baby buggy, the pinning blankets, and
lots and lots of things with it. Now sit still a minute longer."

She rinsed and dried the back of his neck and dusted it with talcum
powder.

"You're as sweet as a clean little baby, Billy Boy."

The unexpected and lingering impact of her lips on the back of his neck
made him writhe with mingled feelings not all unpleasant.

Two days later, though vowing in the intervening time to have nothing
further to do with the instrument of the devil, he permitted Saxon to
assist him to a second shave. This time it went easier.

"It ain't so bad," he admitted. "I'm gettin' the hang of it. LETITIA

Why, who should we dress to please, but those are judges of its merit?

CHARLOTTE
Why, a creature who does not know Buffon from Souflee--Man!--my
Letitia--Man! for whom we dress, walk, dance, talk, lisp, languish,
and smile.After
that he began active proselyting. He could not wait a visit from Bert,
but carried the paraphernalia to the latter's house to demonstrate.

"We've ben boobs all these years, Bert, runnin' the chances of barber's
itch an' everything. Look at this, eh? See her take hold. Smooth as
silk. Just as easy.... DISFAVOUR, disfigure.

DISPARAGEMENT, legal term applied to the unfitness in any way of a marriage
arranged for in the case of wards.
DISPENSE WITH, grant dispensation for.

DISPLAY, extend.
DIS'PLE, discipline, teach by the whip.CHAPTER VI

The trafficking between Saxon and Mercedes increased. The latter
commanded a ready market for all the fine work Saxon could supply, while
Saxon was eager and happy in the work. OTT: Well, I am contented for the
horse: they love to be well horsed, I know. I love it myself.

OTT: And it is a delicate fine horse this. Poetarum Pegasus. Under
correction, princess, Jupiter did turn himself into a--taurus, or
bull, under correction, good princess.Also, for the first time in her life she was spending another's
earnings. Since a young girl she had been used to spending her own, and
now, thanks to Mercedes she was doing it again, and, out of her profits,
assaying more expensive and delightful adventures in lingerie.

Mercedes suggested, and Saxon carried out and even bettered, the dainty
things of thread and texture. She made ruffled chemises of sheer linen,
with her own fine edgings and French embroidery on breast and shoulders;
linen hand-made combination undersuits; and nightgowns, fairy and
cobwebby, embroidered, trimmed with Irish lace. On Mercedes' instigation
she executed an ambitious and wonderful breakfast cap for which the old
woman returned her twelve dollars after deducting commission.

She was happy and busy every waking moment, nor was preparation for the
little one neglected. The only ready made garments she bought were three
fine little knit shirts. As for the rest, every bit was made by her own
hands--featherstitched pinning blankets, a crocheted jacket and cap,
knitted mittens, embroidered bonnets; slim little princess slips
of sensible length; underskirts on absurd Lilliputian yokes;
silk-embroidered white flannel petticoats; stockings and crocheted
boots, seeming to burgeon before her eyes with wriggly pink toes and
plump little calves; and last, but not least, many deliciously soft
squares of bird's-eye linen. A little later, as a crowning masterpiece,
she was guilty of a dress coat of white silk, embroidered. And into all
the tiny garments, with every stitch, she sewed love. Yet this love,
so unceasingly sewn, she knew when she came to consider and marvel, was
more of Billy than of the nebulous, ungraspable new bit of life that
eluded her fondest attempts at visioning.

"Huh," was Billy's comment, as he went over the mite's wardrobe and came
back to center on the little knit shirts, "they look more like a real
kid than the whole kit an' caboodle. Why, I can see him in them regular
manshirts."

Saxon, with a sudden rush of happy, unshed tears, held one of the
little shirts up to his lips. He kissed it solemnly, his eyes resting on
Saxon's.

"That's some for the boy," he said, "but a whole lot for you."

But Saxon's money-earning was doomed to cease ignominiously and
tragically. One day, to take advantage of a department store bargain
sale, she crossed the bay to San Francisco. Passing along Sutter Street,
her eye was attracted by a display in the small window of a small shop.
At first she could not believe it; yet there, in the honored place of
the window, was the wonderful breakfast cap for which she had received
twelve dollars from Mercedes. It was marked twenty-eight dollars. Saxon
went in and interviewed the shopkeeper, an emaciated, shrewd-eyed and
middle-aged woman of foreign extraction.

"Oh, I don't want to buy anything," Saxon said. "I make nice things
like you have here, and I wanted to know what you pay for them--for that
breakfast cap in the window, for instance."

The woman darted a keen glance to Saxon's left hand, noted the
innumerable tiny punctures in the ends of the first and second fingers,
then appraised her clothing and her face.

"Can you do work like that?"

Saxon nodded.

"I paid twenty dollars to the woman that made that." Saxon repressed
an almost spasmodic gasp, and thought coolly for a space. Mercedes had
given her twelve. Then Mercedes had pocketed eight, while she, Saxon,
had furnished the material and labor.

"Would you please show me other hand-made things nightgowns, chemises,
and such things, and tell me the prices you pay?"

"Can you do such work?"

"Yes."

"And will you sell to me?"

"Certainly," Saxon answered. "That is why I am here."

"We add only a small amount when we sell," the woman went on; "you see,
light and rent and such things, as well as a profit or else we could not
be here."

"It's only fair," Saxon agreed.

Amongst the beautiful stuff Saxon went over, she found a nightgown and
a combination undersuit of her own manufacture. For the former she had
received eight dollars from Mercedes, it was marked eighteen, and the
woman had paid fourteen; for the latter Saxon received six, it was
marked fifteen, and the woman had paid eleven.

"Thank you," Saxon said, as she drew on her gloves. "I should like to
bring you some of my work at those prices."

"And I shall be glad to buy it... if it is up to the mark." The woman
looked at her severely. "Mind you, it must be as good as this. And if it
is, I often get special orders, and I'll give you a chance at them."

Mercedes was unblushingly candid when Saxon reproached her.

"You told me you took only a commission," was Saxon's accusation.

"So I did; and so I have."

"But I did all the work and bought all the materials, yet you actually
cleared more out of it than I did. You got the lion's share."

"And why shouldn't I, my dear? I was the middleman. It's the way of the
world. 'Tis the middlemen that get the lion's share."

"It seems to me most unfair," Saxon reflected, more in sadness than
anger.

"That is your quarrel with the world, not with me," Mercedes rejoined
sharply, then immediately softened with one of her quick changes. "We
mustn't quarrel, my dear. I like you so much. La la, it is nothing to
you, who are young and strong with a man young and strong. Listen, I
am an old woman. And old Barry can do little for me. He is on his last
legs. His kidneys are 'most gone. Remember, 'tis I must bury him. And
I do him honor, for beside me he'll have his last long steep. A stupid,
dull old man, heavy, an ox, 'tis true; but a good old fool with no trace
of evil in him. The plot is bought and paid for--the final installment
was made up, in part, out of my commissions from you. Then there are the
funeral expenses. It must be done nicely. I have still much to save. And
Barry may turn up his toes any day."

Saxon sniffed the air carefully, and knew the old woman had been
drinking again.

"Come, my dear, let me show you." Leading Saxon to a large sea chest
in the bedroom, Mercedes lifted the lid. A faint perfume, as of
rose-petals, floated up. "Behold, my burial trousseau. Thus I shall wed
the dust."

Saxon's amazement increased, as, article by article, the old woman
displayed the airiest, the daintiest, the most delicious and most
complete of bridal outfits. Mercedes held up an ivory fan.

"In Venice 'twas given me, my dear.--See, this comb, turtle shell;
Bruce Anstey made it for me the week before he drank his last bottle and
scattered his brave mad brains with a Colt's 44.--This scarf. La la, a
Liberty scarf--"

"And all that will be buried with you," Saxon mused, "Oh, the
extravagance of it!"

Mercedes laughed.

"Why not? I shall die as I have lived. It is my pleasure. I go to the
dust as a bride. No cold and narrow bed for me. I would it were a coach,
covered with the soft things of the East, and pillows, pillows, without
end."

"It would buy you twenty funerals and twenty plots," Saxon protested,
shocked by this blasphemy of conventional death. "It is downright
wicked."

"'Twill be as I have lived," Mercedes said complacently. "And it's a
fine bride old Barry'll have to come and lie beside him." She closed the
lid and sighed. "Though I wish it were Bruce Anstey, or any of the pick
of my young men to lie with me in the great dark and to crumble with me
to the dust that is the real death."

She gazed at Saxon with eyes heated by alcohol and at the same time cool
with the coolness of content.

"In the old days the great of earth were buried with their live slaves
with them. I but take my flimsies, my dear."

"Then you aren't afraid of death?... in the least?"

Mercedes shook her head emphatically.

"Death is brave, and good, and kind. I do not fear death. 'Tis of men I
am afraid when I am dead. So I prepare. They shall not have me when I am
dead."

Saxon was puzzled.

"They would not want you then," she said.

"Many are wanted," was the answer. "Do you know what becomes of the aged
poor who have no money for burial? They are not buried. Let me tell you.
We stood before great doors. He was a queer man, a professor who ought
to have been a pirate, a man who lectured in class rooms when he ought
to have been storming walled cities or robbing banks. He was slender,
like Don Juan. His hands were strong as steel. So was his spirit. And he
was mad, a bit mad, as all my young men have been. 'Come, Mercedes,' he
said; 'we will inspect our brethren and become humble, and glad that we
are not as they--as yet not yet. And afterward, to-night, we will dine
with a more devilish taste, and we will drink to them in golden wine
that will be the more golden for having seen them. Come, Mercedes.'

"He thrust the great doors open, and by the hand led me in. It was a sad
company. Twenty-four, that lay on marble slabs, or sat, half erect and
propped, while many young men, bright of eye, bright little knives in
their hands, glanced curiously at me from their work."

"They were dead?" Saxon interrupted to gasp.

"They were the pauper dead, my dear. 'Come, Mercedes,' said he. 'There
is more to show you that will make us glad we are alive.' And he took me
down, down to the vats. The salt vats, my dear. I was not afraid. But
it was in my mind, then, as I looked, how it would be with me when I was
dead. And there they were, so many lumps of pork. And the order came, 'A
woman; an old woman.' And the man who worked there fished in the vats.
The first was a man he drew to see. Again he fished and stirred. Again
a man. He was impatient, and grumbled at his luck. And then, up through
the brine, he drew a woman, and by the face of her she was old, and he
was satisfied."

"It is not true!" Saxon cried out.

"I have seen, my dear, I know. And I tell you fear not the wrath of God
when you are dead. Fear only the salt vats. And as I stood and looked,
and as he who led me there looked at me and smiled and questioned and
bedeviled me with those mad, black, tired-scholar's eyes of his, I knew
that that was no way for my dear clay. Dear it is, my clay to me; dear
it has been to others. La la, the salt vat is no place for my kissed
lips and love-lavished body." Mercedes lifted the lid of the chest and
gazed fondly at her burial pretties. "So I have made my bed. So I shall
lie in it. Some old philosopher said we know we must die; we do not
believe it. But the old do believe. I believe.

"My dear, remember the salt vats, and do not be angry with me because my
commissions have been heavy. To escape the vats I would stop at nothing
steal the widow's mite, the orphan's crust, and pennies from a dead
man's eyes."

"Do you believe in God?" Saxon asked abruptly, holding herself together
despite cold horror.

Mercedes dropped the lid and shrugged her shoulders.

"Who knows? I shall rest well."

"And punishment?" Saxon probed, remembering the unthinkable tale of the
other's life.

"Impossible, my dear. As some old poet said, 'God's a good fellow.' Some
time I shall talk to you about God. Never be afraid of him. Be afraid
only of the salt vats and the things men may do with your pretty flesh
after you are dead."


CHAPTER VII

Billy quarreled with good fortune. He suspected he was too prosperous on
the wages he received. What with the accumulating savings account, the
paying of the monthly furniture installment and the house rent, the
spending money in pocket, and the good fare he was eating, he was
puzzled as to how Saxon managed to pay for the goods used in her fancy
work. Several times he had suggested his inability to see how she did
it, and been baffled each time by Saxon's mysterious laugh.

"I can't see how you do it on the money," he was contending one evening.

He opened his mouth to speak further, then closed it and for five
minutes thought with knitted brows.

"Say," he said, "what's become of that frilly breakfast cap you was
workin' on so hard, I ain't never seen you wear it, and it was sure too
big for the kid."

Saxon hesitated, with pursed lips and teasing eyes. With her,
untruthfulness had always been a difficult matter. To Billy it was
impossible. She could see the cloud-drift in his eyes deepening and his
face hardening in the way she knew so well when he was vexed.

"Say, Saxon, you ain't... you ain't... sellin' your work?"

And thereat she related everything, not omitting Mercedes Higgins' part
in the transaction, nor Mercedes Higgins' remarkable burial trousseau.
But Billy was not to be led aside by the latter. In terms anything but
uncertain he told Saxon that she was not to work for money.

"But I have so much spare time, Billy, dear," she pleaded.

He shook his head.

"Nothing doing. I won't listen to it. I married you, and I'll take care
of you. Nobody can say Bill Roberts' wife has to work. And I don't want
to think it myself. Besides, it ain't necessary."

"But Billy--" she began again.

"Nope. That's one thing I won't stand for, Saxon. Not that I don't like
fancy work. I do. I like it like hell, every bit you make, but I like it
on YOU. Go ahead and make all you want of it, for yourself, an' I'll
put up for the goods. Why, I'm just whistlin' an' happy all day long,
thinkin' of the boy an' seein' you at home here workin' away on all them
nice things. Because I know how happy you are a-doin' it. But honest to
God, Saxon, it'd all be spoiled if I knew you was doin' it to sell. You
see, Bill Roberts' wife don't have to work. That's my brag--to myself,
mind you. An' besides, it ain't right."

"You're a dear," she whispered, happy despite her disappointment.

"I want you to have all you want," he continued. "An' you're goin' to
get it as long as I got two hands stickin' on the ends of my arms. I
guess I know how good the things are you wear--good to me, I mean, too.
I'm dry behind the ears, an' maybe I've learned a few things I oughtn't
to before I knew you. But I know what I'm talkin' about, and I want
to say that outside the clothes down underneath, an' the clothes down
underneath the outside ones, I never saw a woman like you. Oh--"

He threw up his hands as if despairing of ability to express what he
thought and felt, then essayed a further attempt.

"It's not a matter of bein' only clean, though that's a whole lot. Lots
of women are clean. It ain't that. It's something more, an' different.
It's... well, it's the look of it, so white, an' pretty, an' tasty. It
gets on the imagination. It's something I can't get out of my thoughts
of you. I want to tell you lots of men can't strip to advantage, an'
lots of women, too. But you--well, you're a wonder, that's all, and you
can't get too many of them nice things to suit me, and you can't get
them too nice.

"For that matter, Saxon, you can just blow yourself. There's lots of
easy money layin' around. I'm in great condition. Billy Murphy pulled
down seventy-five round iron dollars only last week for puttin' away the
Pride of North Beach. That's what ha paid us the fifty back out of."

But this time it was Saxon who rebelled.

"There's Carl Hansen," Billy argued. "The second Sharkey, the alfalfa
sportin' writers are callin' him. An' he calls himself Champion of the
United States Navy. Well, I got his number. He's just a big stiff. I've
seen 'm fight, an' I can pass him the sleep medicine just as easy. The
Secretary of the Sportin' Life Club offered to match me. An' a hundred
iron dollars in it for the winner. And it'll all be yours to blow in any
way you want. What d'ye say?"

"If I can't work for money, you can't fight," was Saxon's ultimatum,
immediately withdrawn. "But you and I don't drive bargains. Even if
you'd let me work for money, I wouldn't let you fight. I've never
forgotten what you told me about how prizefighters lose their silk.
Well, you're not going to lose yours. It's half my silk, you know.
And if you won't fight, I won't work--there. And more, I'll never do
anything you don't want me to, Billy."

"Same here," Billy agreed. "Though just the same I'd like most to death
to have just one go at that squarehead Hansen." He smiled with pleasure
at the thought. "Say, let's forget it all now, an' you sing me 'Harvest
Days' on that dinky what-you-may-call-it."

When she had complied, accompanying herself on the ukulele, she
suggested his weird "Cowboy's Lament." In some inexplicable way of love,
she had come to like her husband's one song. Because he sang it, she
liked its inanity and monotonousness; and most of all, it seemed to her,
she loved his hopeless and adorable flatting of every note. She could
even sing with him, flatting as accurately and deliciously as he. Nor
did she undeceive him in his sublime faith.

"I guess Bert an' the rest have joshed me all the time," he said.

"You and I get along together with it fine," she equivocated; for in
such matters she did not deem the untruth a wrong.

Spring was on when the strike came in the railroad shops. The Sunday
before it was called, Saxon and Billy had dinner at Bert's house.
Saxon's brother came, though he had found it impossible to bring
Sarah, who refused to budge from her household rut. Bert was blackly
pessimistic, and they found him singing with sardonic glee:

"Nobody loves a mil-yun-aire. Nobody likes his looks. Nobody'll share
his slightest care, He classes with thugs and crooks. Thriftiness has
become a crime, So spend everything you earn; We're living now in a
funny time, When money is made to burn."

Mary went about the dinner preparation, flaunting unmistakable signals
of rebellion; and Saxon, rolling up her sleeves and tying on an apron,
washed the breakfast dishes. Bert fetched a pitcher of steaming beer
from the corner saloon, and the three men smoked and talked about the
coming strike.

"It oughta come years ago," was Bert's dictum. "It can't come any too
quick now to suit me, but it's too late. We're beaten thumbs donn.
Here's where the last of the Mohegans gets theirs, in the neck,
ker-whop!"

"Oh, I don't know," Tom, who had been smoking his pipe gravely, began
to counsel. "Organized labor's gettin' stronger every day. Why, I
can remember when there wasn't any unions in California, Look at us
now--wages, an' hours, an' everything."

"You talk like an organizer," Bert sneered, "shovin' the bull con on the
boneheads. But we know different. Organized wages won't buy as much
now as unorganized wages used to buy. They've got us whipsawed. Look at
Frisco, the labor leaders doin' dirtier polities than the old parties,
pawin' an' squabblin' over graft, an' goin' to San Quentin, while--what
are the Frisco carpenters doin'? Let me tell you one thing, Tom Brown,
if you listen to all you hear you'll hear that every Frisco carpenter is
union an' gettin' full union wages. Do you believe it? It's a damn lie.
There ain't a carpenter that don't rebate his wages Saturday night to
the contractor. An' that's your buildin' trades in San Francisco,
while the leaders are makin' trips to Europe on the earnings of the
tenderloin--when they ain't coughing it up to the lawyers to get out of
wearin' stripes."

"That's all right," Tom concurred. "Nobody's denyin' it. The trouble is
labor ain't quite got its eyes open. It ought to play politics, but the
politics ought to be the right kind."

"Socialism, eh?" Bert caught him up with scorn. "Wouldn't they sell us
out just as the Ruefs and Schmidts have?"

"Get men that are honest," Billy said. "That's the whole trouble. Not
that I stand for socialism. I don't. All our folks was a long time in
America, an' I for one won't stand for a lot of fat Germans an' greasy
Russian Jews tellin' me how to run my country when they can't speak
English yet."

"Your country!" Bert cried. "Why, you bonehead, you ain't got a country.
That's a fairy story the grafters shove at you every time they want to
rob you some more."

"But don't vote for the grafters," Billy contended. "If we selected
honest men we'd get honest treatment."

"I wish you'd come to some of our meetings, Billy," Tom said wistfully.
"If you would, you'd get your eyes open an' vote the socialist ticket
next election."

"Not on your life," Billy declined. "When you catch me in a socialist
meeting'll be when they can talk like white men."

Bert was humming:

"We're living now in a funny time, When money is made to burn."

Mary was too angry with her husband, because of the impending strike
and his incendiary utterances, to hold conversation with Saxon, and the
latter, bepuzzled, listened to the conflicting opinions of the men.

"Where are we at?" she asked them, with a merriness that concealed her
anxiety at heart.

"We ain't at," Bert snarled. "We're gone."

"But meat and oil have gone up again," she chafed. "And Billy's wages
have been cut, and the shop men's were cut last year. Something must be
done."

"The only thing to do is fight like hell," Bert answered. "Fight, an' go
down fightin'. That's all. We're licked anyhow, but we can have a last
run for our money."

"That's no way to talk," Tom rebuked.

"The time for talkin' 's past, old cock. The time for fightin' 's come."

"A hell of a chance you'd have against regular troops and machine guns,"
Billy retorted.

"Oh, not that way. There's such things as greasy sticks that go up with
a loud noise and leave holes. There's such things as emery powder--"

"Oh, ho!" Mary burst out upon him, arms akimbo. "So that's what it
means. That's what the emery in your vest pocket meant."

Her husband ignored her. Tom smoked with a troubled air. Billy was hurt.
It showed plainly in his face.

"You ain't ben doin' that, Bert?" he asked, his manner showing his
expectancy of his friend's denial.

"Sure thing, if you wont to know. I'd see'm all in hell if I could,
before I go."

"He's a bloody-minded anarchist," Mary complained. "Men like him killed
McKinley, and Garfield, an'--an' an' all the rest. He'll be hung. You'll
see. Mark my words. I'm glad there's no children in sight, that's all."

"It's hot air," Billy comforted her.

"He's just teasing you," Saxon soothed. "He always was a josher."

But Mary shook her head.

"I know. I hear him talkin' in his sleep. He swears and curses something
awful, an' grits his teeth. Listen to him now."

Bert, his handsome face bitter and devil-may-care, had tilted his chair
back against the wall and was singing

"Nobody loves a mil-yun-aire, Nobody likes his looks, Nobody'll share
his slightest care, He classes with thugs and crooks."

Tom was saying something about reasonableness and justice, and Bert
ceased from singing to catch him up.

"Justice, eh? Another pipe-dream. I'll show you where the working class
gets justice. You remember Forbes--J. Alliston Forbes--wrecked the Alta
California Trust Company an' salted down two cold millions. I saw him
yesterday, in a big hell-bent automobile. What'd he get? Eight years'
sentence. How long did he serve? Less'n two years. Pardoned out on
account of ill health. Ill hell! We'll be dead an' rotten before he
kicks the bucket. Here. Look out this window. You see the back of that
house with the broken porch rail. Mrs. Danaker lives there. She takes
in washin'. Her old man was killed on the railroad. Nitsky on
damages--contributory negligence, or fellow-servant-something-or-other
flimflam. That's what the courts handed her. Her boy, Archie, was
sixteen. He was on the road, a regular road-kid. He blew into Fresno
an' rolled a drunk. Do you want to know how much he got? Two dollars
and eighty cents. Get that?--Two-eighty. And what did the alfalfa judge
hand'm? Fifty years. He's served eight of it already in San Quentin. And
he'll go on serving it till he croaks. Mrs. Danaker says he's bad with
consumption--caught it inside, but she ain't got the pull to get'm
pardoned. Archie the Kid steals two dollars an' eighty cents from a
drunk and gets fifty years. J. Alliston Forbes sticks up the Alta
Trust for two millions en' gets less'n two years. Who's country is
this anyway? Yourn an' Archie the Kid's? Guess again. It's J. _The
complete incarnation of Spirit_, which is the definition of beauty,
demands equally that there be no point it does not inhabit, and
none in which it abides.

The transience of things is no defect in them, but only the affirmation
of their reality through the incessant casting-off of its inadequate
manifestations.

It is not from the excellence, but from the impotence of its nature, that
the stone endures and does not pass away as the plant and the animal. The
higher the organization, the more rapid and thorough the
circulation.

The same truth holds in Art, also, and drives it to forsake these beautiful
petrifactions and seek an expression less bound to the material. Ideal
form is good so far as it brings together in one compact image
what in Nature is scattered and partial; but it is an ideality of
the surface only, not of the substance.

It shuts out the defect of this or that form, but not of Form itself.
The Greek ideal is after all _a thing_, and its impassive perfection
a stony death.

The justification is, that the sculptor did not say quite what he meant.

He said flesh, but he meant spirit, and this is what the Greek
statues mean to us.

The modern sculptor does not mean spirit, and knows that he does
not; and so, with all his efforts, he gives us only the outside.

Is it asked, Whence this divorce of flesh and spirit? why not give both
at once as Nature does?

Then we must do as Nature does, and make our forms as fluid as hers. But
this the sculptor contravenes at the outset. To follow Nature, he
should make his statue of snow. To make it of stone is to pretend that
the form is something of itself. This the Greeks never meant, for then
it would follow that all parts of it were alike significant. Haydon was
delighted to find reproduced in the Elgin marbles certain obscure and
seeming insignificant details of the anatomy that later schools had
overlooked, such as a fold of skin under the armpit of the Neptune, etc.
But any beginner at a life-school could have pointed out in the same
statue endless deficiencies in anatomical detail. The fold was put in,
not because it was there, but because to the mind of the Greek
artist it meant something.

Sculptors of the present day comfort themselves with the belief
that their works are more complete and more accurate in the anatomy
than the antique.

Very likely, for the ancients did not dissect. But this accuracy, if it
is founded on no interest beyond accuracy, is after all an impertinence.

The Greek ideal is founded on the exclusion of accident. It is a
declaration that the casual shape is not the true form; it is only a
step farther to the perception that all shape is casual,--the reality
seen, not in it, but through it. The ideal is then no longer perfect
shape, but transparency to the sentiment; the image is not sought to
be placed before the beholder's eyes, but painted as it were in
his mind.

Henceforth, suggestion only is aimed at, not representation; the
coöperation of the spectator is relied upon as the indispensable
complement of the design.

The Zeus of Phidias seemed to the Greeks, Plotinus says, Zeus himself, as
he would be, if he chose to appear to human eyes.

But a Crucifixion is of itself not at all what the artist meant. It is
not the agony of the flesh, but the triumph of the spirit, that is
intended to be portrayed. If the end be attained, the slighter and
more unpromising the means the better.

Thus a new scale of values is established; nothing is worthy or unworthy
of itself; nothing is excluded, but also in nothing is the interest
identified with the thing, but imparted.

Christian Art, after mere tradition had died out,--for instance,
in the Byzantine and early Italian pictures from the eighth to the
middle of the thirteenth century,--presents the strongest contrast
to all that had gone before.

The morose and lifeless monotony or barbarous rudeness of these figures
seems like contempt not only of beauty, but of all natural expression.

They are meaningless of themselves, and quite indifferent to the
character they represent, which is appended to them by inscriptions,--their
relative importance, even, indicated only by size, more or less splendor
of costume, etc., but the faces all alike, and no attempt made to adapt
the action to the occasion. It is another world they belong to; the
present they pointedly renounce and disdain, condescending to communicate
with it only indirectly and by signs.

The main peculiarities were common to Painting and Sculpture, though
most noticeable in Painting. An interest in the actual world seems never
so far lost sight of, and earlier revived, in Sculpture.

Even down to the spring-tide of Modern Art in the thirteenth century,
the "pleasant days" when Guido of Siena was painting his Madonna,
the improvement in Painting was rather a stirring within the cerements
of conventional types, a flush on the cheek of the still rigid form,--while
in the bas-reliefs of the Pisan sculptors we meet already a realism
as much in excess of the antique as the Byzantine fell short of it.

It is commonly said that Nicola Pisano revived Art through study of the
antique; his models, even, are pointed out, particularly a sarcophagus,
said to have been brought to Pisa in the eleventh century from Greece.

But this sarcophagus, wherever it came from, is not Greek, but late
Roman work; and we find in Nicola no mark of direct Greek influence,
but only of the late Roman and early Christian sarcophagus-sculptures.
In the reliefs upon his celebrated pulpit at Pisa we have the same
short-legged, large-headed, indigenous Italian or Roman figures, and
the same arrangement of hair, draperies, etc., as on those sarcophagi.

Taken by themselves, his works would, no doubt, indicate a new direction.
But by the side of his son Giovanni, or the sculptors of the Northern
cathedrals, he seems to belong to the third century rather than
to the thirteenth.

In Giovanni Pisano the new era was distinctly announced. The Inferno,
usually ascribed to him, among the reliefs on the front of Orvieto
Cathedral,[1] and in his noble pulpit at Pistoia, shows the traces
of the antique only in unimportant details, ornamentation, etc.

The antique served him, no doubt, as a hint to independent study,
but the whole intent is different,--all the beauties and all the
defects arrived at by a different road.

In place of the impassive Minos of the Shades, we have a fiend,
serpent-girt,[2] his judicial impartiality enforced apparently
against his will by manacles and anklets of knotted snakes; and
throughout, instead of the calm impersonality of the Greek, dealing
out the typical forms of things like a law of Nature, we have the
restless, intense, partisan, modern man, not wanting in tenderness,
but full of a noble scorn at the unworthiness of the world, and
grasping at a reality beyond it.

He is intent, first of all and at all risks, upon vivid expression,
upon telling the story, and speedily outruns the possibilities of
his material.

He must make his creatures alive to the last superficies; and as he cannot
give them motion, he puts an emphasis upon all their bones, sinews,
veins, and wrinkles,--every feather is carved, and even the fishes
under the water show their scales.

That mere literalness is not the aim is shown by the open disregard of
it elsewhere; for instance, the size of each figure is determined,
not by natural rules, but by their relative importance, so that in
the Nativity, Mary is twice as large as Joseph and three times as
large as the attendants.

And the detail is not everywhere equally minute, but follows the
intensity of the theme, reaching its height in the lower compartment,
where the damned are in suffering, and especially in the figures
of the fiends.

This is no aim at literalness, but a struggle for an emphasis beyond
the reach of Sculpture,--taking these means in despair of others,
and, in its thirst for expression, careless alike of natural
probability, typical perfection of form, and pleasing effect.

Different as it seems, the same spirit is at work here and in
Painting.

In both it is the repudiation of the classic ideal,--in Sculpture
by a _reductio ad absurdum_, putting its implicit claims to the
test of realization,--in Painting by mere negation, as was natural
at the outset of a new career, before the means of any positive
expression were discovered.

Ideal form was to the Greeks the highest result, the success of the
universe. The end of Art was conceived as Nature's end as well, whether
actually attained or not. Nor was this preference of certain forms
arbitrary, but it followed the plain indications written on every
particle of matter. What we call brute matter is whatever is means
only, not showing any individuality, or end within itself. A handful
of earth is definable only by its chemical or physical properties,
which do not distinguish it, but confound it with other things.
By itself it is only so much phosphate or silicate, and can come to be
something only in a foreign organism, a plant or an animal.

In form is seen the dawning of individuality, and just as the thing
rises in the scale the principle of form becomes dominant. The handful
of earth is sufficiently described by the chemist's formula,--these
ingredients make this substance. But an organic body cannot be so described.
The chemist's account of sugar, for instance, is C^{6} H^{10} O^{5}.
But if we ask what starch is, we have, again, C^{6} H^{10} O^{5},--and
the cellular tissue of plants, also, is the same. These things, then, as
far as he knows, are identical.

Evidently, he is beyond his depth, and the higher we go in the scale
the less he has to say to the purpose,--the separate importance of the
material ingredients constantly decreasing, and the importance of
their definite connection increasing, as the reference to an individual
centre predominates over helpless gravitation. First, aggregation about
a centre, as in the crystal,--then, arrangement of the parts, as upper,
under, and lateral, as in the plant,--then, organization of these into
members. Form is the self-assertion of the thing as no longer means
only; this makes its attractiveness to the artist.

The root of his delight in ideal form is that it promises some
finality amid the endless maze of matter. But this higher completeness,
which is beauty, whether it happen to exist or not, is never the
immediate aim of Nature. It is everywhere implied, but nowhere
expressed; for Nature is unwearied in producing, but negligent of
the product.

As soon as the end seems anywhere about to be attained, it is straightway
made means again to something else, and so on forever.

The earth and the air hasten to convert themselves into a plant, the
flower into fruit, the fruit into flesh, and the animal at last to die
and give back again to the air and the earth what they have transmitted
to him. Whatever beauty a thing has is by the way, not as the
end for which it exists, and so it is left to be baffled and soiled
by accident.

This is the "jealousy of the gods," that could not endure that
anything should exist without some flaw of imperfection to confess
its mortal birth.

The world is full of beauty, but as it were hinted,--as in the tendency
to make the most conspicuous things the most beautiful, as flowers, fruits,
birds, the insects of the sunshine, the fishes of the surface, the upper
side of the leaf; and perhaps more distinctly (in accordance with
Lord Bacon's suggestion that "Nature is rather busy not to err, than
in labor to produce excellency") in the tendency to hide those that
are ugly, as toads, owls, bats, worms, insects that flee the light, the
fishes of the bottom, the intestines of animals.

But these are hints only, and Nature, as Mr. Ruskin confesses, will sometimes
introduce "not ugliness only, but ugliness in the wrong place." Were
beauty the aim, it should be most evident in her chief products;
whereas it is in things transient, minute, subordinate,--flowers,
snow-flakes, the microscopic details of structure,--that it meets us most
invariably, rather than in the higher animals or in man. Nor in man does
it keep pace with his civilization, but obeys laws that belong to the
lower regions of his nature.

This ambiguity of every fact in Nature comes from the difficulty of
detecting its true connection. There is reality _there_, even in blight
and corruption; something is forwarded, only perhaps not the thing
before us,--as the virtue of the compost-heap appears not in it, but
in the rose-bed. The artist cannot forego a jot of reality, but the
obvious facts are not this, any more than the canvas and the pigment are
the picture. The prose of every-day life is reality in fragments,--the
Alps split into paving-stones,--Achilles with a cold in the head. Seen
in due connection, they make up the reality; but their prominence as
they occur is casual and shifting, and the result dependent on the
spectator's power of discerning, amid the endless series in which they
are involved, more or less of their vital relations.

Art is not to be blamed for idealizing, for this is only completing what
Nature begins. But the completion of the design is also its limitation.

It is final to the artist as well as to the theme, and cannot yield to
further expansion. In Nature there is no such pretence of finality, and
so her work, though never complete, is never convicted of defect.

Her circuits are never closed; she does not aim to cure the defect in
the thing, but in something else.

Each in turn she abandons, and appeals to a future success, which never
is, but always about to be.

The reason is, that the scope of each is wider than immediately appears.
It is not simple completeness that is aimed at, but ascent to higher
levels, so that the consummation it demands, if granted, would cut
it off from more vital connections elsewhere.

The ideal of the crystal seems to be clearness and regularity, but
better things are in store for it.

It must become opaque and shapeless in order to be fitted for higher
transformations.

The leaf must be cramped to make the flower. Homer's heroes must hoe
potatoes and keep shop before the higher civilization of the race can
be reached.

The Greek ideal is an endeavor to ignore the imperfections of natural
existence. The ideal life is to be rich, strong, powerful, eloquent,
high-born, famous. It was a glorification of the earthly, not by
transcending, but by keeping its limitations out of sight.

But this is only making the limitation essential and irrevocable, so
that it infects the ideal also, which in this very avoidance submits
to recognize it.

The statue is not _less_, but more, a thing than the natural body. Life
is not mere exclusion of decay, but organization of it, so that the
fury of corruption passes into fresh vital power.

It is a cycle of changes, the type and show of which are the
circulation, constantly removing effete particles and building up
new, and therein giving its hue to the flesh.

But sculpture supposes the current checked, and one aspect fit to stand
for all the rest.

The statue is not only a particle, but an isolated particle, and
must first of all divert attention from its fragmentariness.

Mr. Garbett has remarked that plants should not be copied in sculpture,
because the plant is not seen entire, but is partly hidden in the
ground. But the point is not the being seen or not, but the suggestion
of incompleteness. The same remark applies to animals, and even to
man, unless his relations to the world, as an individual among individuals,
can be kept out of sight.

But the finite thus isolated is not honored, but degraded.

This stagnant perfection is atrophy,--as some poisons are said to kill
by arresting the transformation of the tissues, and so to preserve them
at the expense of their life.

The new era is marked by the perception that these shortcomings are not
accidental, but inherent and intended.

The chasm is not to be bridged or avoided,--or, as Plato says, the human
to become godlike by taking away here and adding there,--but remains a
radical incongruity of Nature, never to be escaped from.

It brings death and dissolution to the fair shapes of the earlier
world,--for the worship of form is justified only so long as the
mind thinks forms and not ideas.

The statue may embody an infinite meaning, but to the artist form and
meaning are one.

It is not a sentiment that he puts into this shape, but it is the
shape itself that inspires him. The symbolism of Greek Art was the discovery
of a later age. We know what is meant by Circe and Athene, but Homer did
not. It was thus only that the Greek mind could grasp ideas,--this
is the thoroughly _artistic_ character of that people.
Their philosophers were always outlaws. What excited the rage of the
Athenians against Socrates was his endeavor to detach religion from
the images of the gods. When it comes to comparisons between meaning
and expression, as adequate or inadequate, it is evident their unity
is gone;--the meaning is first, and the expression only adjunct
or illustration.

It did not impair the sacredness of the Greek deities that they
were the work of the poets and sculptors.

But the second Nicene Council forbade as impious any images of
Christ as God, and allowed only his human nature to be represented,--a
strange decree, if the Church had realized its own doctrine, that
the humanity of Christ is as real as his divinity.

But the meaning is, that the finite is not there to stand for the infinite,
but only to indicate it negatively and indirectly,--that its glory is
not to persist in its finiteness, not to hold on to its form, but to
be transformed. The figure of Thersites would be very unsuitable for
Achilles, but is suitable enough for a saint; it was a pardonable
exaggeration to make it even more suitable.

The hero is now the saint; the ideal life a life of poverty, humility,
weakness, labor,--to be long-suffering, to despise and forsake the
world. The present life, the heaven of Achilles, is now Hades, the
forced abode of phantoms having no reality but what is given to them by
religion, and the Hades of the Greek the only true and substantial
world.

The new church fled the light of the sun, and sought impatiently
to bury itself in the tomb.

The Roman catacombs were not the mere refuge of a persecuted sect,--their
use as places of worship continued long after such need had ceased.

But "among the graves" they found the point nearest to the happy
land beyond, and the silence and the darkness made it easier to
ignore for the few miserable moments that yet remained the vain
tumult of the surface.

In such a mood the beauty of the outward could awaken no delight, but
only suspicion and aversion. Not the earth and its glories, but the
fading of these before the unseen and eternal, was the only possible
inspiration of Art.

The extreme of this direction we see in the Iconoclasm of the eighth
century, but it has never completely died out. Gibbon tells us of a Greek
priest who refused to receive some pictures that Titian had painted
for him, because they were too real:--"Your scandalous figures," said
he, "stand quite out from the canvas; they are as bad as a group of
statues." It is a tenderness towards the idea, lest it should be
dishonored by actuality.

Matter is gross, obscure, evil, an obstacle to spirit,--and material
existence tolerable only as momentary, vanishing, and, as it were,
under constant protest, and with the suspicion that the Devil has
a hand in it. It belongs especially to the Oriental mind, and its
logical result is the Buddhist heaven of annihilation.

The defect of this view is not that it is too ideal, but that it
is not ideal enough.

It is an incomplete idealism that through weakness of faith does not
hold fast its own point of view, and so does not dispose of matter, but
leaves it outside, as negation, obstacle. The body is allowed to exist,
but remains in disgrace and reduced to the barest indication.

But it is honoring matter far too much to allow that it can be an
obstacle. It is no obstacle, for it is _nothing_ of itself.

Rightly understood, this contempt of the body is directed only against
the false emphasis placed upon single aspects or manifestations.

But just the same, Saxon, honest to God, before I'd have anything happen
to you, break your little finger, even, I'd see him dead an' buried
first. That'll give you something of an idea what you mean to me.

"Why, Saxon, I had the idea that when folks got married they just
settled down, and after a while their business was to get along with
each other. Maybe it's the way it is with other people; but it ain't
that way with you an' me. I love you more 'n more every day. Right now
I love you more'n when I began talkin' to you five minutes ago. An' you
won't have to get a nurse. Doc Hentley'll come every day, an' Mary'll
come in an' do the housework, an' take care of you an' all that, just as
you'll do for her if she ever needs it."

As the days and weeks pussed, Saxon was possessed by a conscious feeling
of proud motherhood in her swelling breasts. So essentially a normal
woman was she, that motherhood was a satisfying and passionate
happiness. It was true that she had her moments of apprehension, but
they were so momentary and faint that they tended, if anything, to give
zest to her happiness.

Only one thing troubled her, and that was the puzzling and perilous
situation of labor which no one seemed to understand, her self least of
all.

"They're always talking about how much more is made by machinery than by
the old ways," she told her brother Tom. "Then, with all the machinery
we've got now, why don't we get more?"

"Now you're talkin'," he answered. "It wouldn't take you long to
understand socialism."

But Saxon had a mind to the immediate need of things.

"Tom, how long have you been a socialist?"

"Eight years."

"And you haven't got anything by it?"

"But we will... in time."

"At that rate you'll be dead first," she challenged.

Tom sighed.

"I'm afraid so. Things move so slow."

Again he sighed. She noted the weary, patient look in his face, the bent
shoulders, the labor-gnarled hands, and it all seemed to symbolize the
futility of his social creed.


CHAPTER IX

It began quietly, as the fateful unexpected so often begins. Children,
of all ages and sizes, were playing in the street, and Saxon, by the
open front window, was watching them and dreaming day dreams of her
child soon to be. The sunshine mellowed peacefully down, and a light
wind from the bay cooled the air and gave to it a tang of salt. One of
the children pointed up Pine Street toward Seventh. All the children
ceased playing, and stared and pointed. They formed into groups, the
larger boys, of from ten to twelve, by themselves, the older girls
anxiously clutching the small children by the hands or gathering them
into their arms.

Saxon could not see the cause of all this, but she could guess when she
saw the larger boys rush to the gutter, pick up stones, and sneak into
the alleys between the houses. Smaller boys tried to imitate them. The
girls, dragging the tots by the arms, banged gates and clattered up the
front steps of the small houses. The doors slammed behind them, and the
street was deserted, though here and there front shades were drawn aside
so that anxious-faced women might peer forth. Saxon heard the uptown
train puffing and snorting as it pulled out from Center Street. Then,
from the direction of Seventh, came a hoarse, throaty manroar. Still,
she could see nothing, and she remembered Mercedes Higgins' words "THEY
ARE LIKE DOGS WRANGLING OVER BONES. JOBS ARE BONES, YOU KNOW"

The roar came closer, and Saxon, leaning out, saw a dozen scabs,
conveyed by as many special police and Pinkertons, coming down the
sidewalk on her side of the street. They came compactly, as if with
discipline, while behind, disorderly, yelling confusedly, stooping to
pick up rocks, were seventy-five or a hundred of the striking shopmen.
Saxon discovered herself trembling with apprehension, knew that she must
not, and controlled herself. She was helped in this by the conduct of
Mercedes Higgins. The old woman came out of her front door, dragging a
chair, on which she coolly seated herself on the tiny stoop at the top
of the steps.

In the hands of the special police were clubs. The Pinkertons carried
no visible weapons. The strikers, urging on from behind, seemed content
with yelling their rage and threats, and it remained for the children to
precipitate the conflict. From across the street, between the Olsen and
the Isham houses, came a shower of stones. Most of these fell short,
though one struck a scab on the head. The man was no more than twenty
feet away from Saxon. He reeled toward her front picket fence, drawing a
revolver. With one hand he brushed the blood from his eyes and with
the other he discharged the revolver into the Isham house. A Pinkerton
seized his arm to prevent a second shot, and dragged him along. At the
same instant a wilder roar went up from the strikers, while a volley of
stones came from between Saxon's house and Maggie Donahue's. The scabs
and their protectors made a stand, drawing revolvers. From their hard,
determined faces--fighting men by profession--Saxon could augur nothing
but bloodshed and death. An elderly man, evidently the leader, lifted a
soft felt hat and mopped the perspiration from the bald top of his head.
He was a large man, very rotund of belly and helpless looking. His gray
beard was stained with streaks of tobacco juice, and he was smoking
a cigar. He was stoop-shouldered, and Saxon noted the dandruff on the
collar of his coat.

One of the men pointed into the street, and several of his companions
laughed. The cause of it was the little Olsen boy, barely four years
old, escaped somehow from his mother and toddling toward his economic
enemies. In his right he bore a rock so heavy that he could scarcely
lift it. With this he feebly threatened them. His rosy little face was
convulsed with rage, and he was screaming over and over "Dam scabs!
Dam scabs! Dam scabs!" The laughter with which they greeted him only
increased his fury. He toddled closer, and with a mighty exertion threw
the rock. It fell a scant six feet beyond his hand.

This much Saxon saw, and also Mrs. Olsen rushing into the street for
her child. A rattling of revolver-shots from the strikers drew Saxon's
attention to the men beneath her. One of them cursed sharply and
examined the biceps of his left arm, which hung limply by his side. Down
the hand she saw the blood beginning to drip. She knew she ought not
remain and watch, but the memory of her fighting forefathers was with
her, while she possessed no more than normal human fear--if anything,
less. She forgot her child in the eruption of battle that had broken
upon her quiet street. And she forgot the strikers, and everything else,
in amazement at what had happened to the round-bellied, cigar-smoking
leader. In some strange way, she knew not how, his head had become
wedged at the neck between the tops of the pickets of her fence. His
body hung down outside, the knees not quite touching the ground. His hat
had fallen off, and the sun was making an astounding high light on his
bald spot. The cigar, too, was gone. She saw he was looking at her. One
hand, between the pickets, seemed waving at her, and almost he seemed to
wink at her jocosely, though she knew it to be the contortion of deadly
pain.

Possibly a second, or, at most, two seconds, she gazed at this, when she
was aroused by Bert's voice. He was running along the sidewalk, in front
of her house, and behind him charged several more strikers, while he
shouted: "Come on, you Mohegans! We got 'em nailed to the cross!"

In his left hand he carried a pick-handle, in his right a revolver,
already empty, for he clicked the cylinder vainly around as he ran. With
an abrupt stop, dropping the pick-handle, he whirled half about, facing
Saxon's gate. He was sinking down, when he straightened himself to throw
the revolver into the face of a scab who was jumping toward him. Then he
began swaying, at the same time sagging at the knees and waist. Slowly,
with infinite effort, he caught a gate picket in his right hand, and,
still slowly, as if lowering himself, sank down, while past him leaped
the crowd of strikers he had led.

It was battle without quarter--a massacre. The scabs and their
protectors, surrounded, backed against Saxon's fence, fought like
cornered rats, but could not withstand the rush of a hundred men.
Clubs and pick-handles were swinging, revolvers were exploding, and
cobblestones were flung with crushing effect at arm's distance. Saxon
saw young Frank Davis, a friend of Bert's and a father of several
months' standing, press the muzzle of his revolver against a scab's
stomach and fire. There were curses and snarls of rage, wild cries of
terror and pain. Mercedes was right. These things were not men. They
were beasts, fighting over bones, destroying one another for bones.

JOBS ARE BONES; JOBS ARE BONES. The phrase was an incessant iteration in
Saxon's brain. Much as she might have wished it, she was powerless now
to withdraw from the window. It was as if she were paralyzed. Her brain
no longer worked. She sat numb, staring, incapable of anything save
seeing the rapid horror before her eyes that flashed along like a moving
picture film gone mad. She saw Pinkertons, special police, and strikers
go down. One scab, terribly wounded, on his knees and begging for
mercy, was kicked in the face. As he sprawled backward another striker,
standing over him, fired a revolver into his chest, quickly and
deliberately, again and again, until the weapon was empty. Another scab,
backed over the pickets by a hand clutching his throat, had his face
pulped by a revolver butt. Again and again, continually, the revolver
rose and fell, and Saxon knew the man who wielded it--Chester Johnson.
She had met him at dances and danced with him in the days before she was
married. He had always been kind and good natured. She remembered the
Friday night, after a City Hall band concert, when he had taken her and
two other girls to Tony's Tamale Grotto on Thirteenth street. And after
that they had all gone to Pabst's Cafe and drunk a glass of beer before
they went home. It was impossible that this could be the same Chester
Johnson. And as she looked, she saw the round-bellied leader, still
wedged by the neck between the pickets, draw a revolver with his
free hand, and, squinting horribly sidewise, press the muzzle against
Chester's side. She tried to scream a warning. She did scream, and
Chester looked up and saw her. At that moment the revolver went off, and
he collapsed prone upon the body of the scab. And the bodies of three
men hung on her picket fence.

Anything could happen now. Quite without surprise, she saw the strikers
leaping the fence, trampling her few little geraniums and pansies into
the earth as they fled between Mercedes' house and hers. Up Pine street,
from the railroad yards, was coming a rush of railroad police and
Pinkertons, firing as they ran. While down Pine street, gongs clanging,
horses at a gallop, came three patrol wagons packed with police. The
strikers were in a trap. The only way out was between the houses and
over the back yard fences. The jam in the narrow alley prevented them
all from escaping. A dozen were cornered in the angle between the front
of her house and the steps. And as they had done, so were they done by.
No effort was made to arrest. They were clubbed down and shot down to
the last man by the guardians of the peace who were infuriated by what
had been wreaked on their brethren.

It was all over, and Saxon, moving as in a dream, clutching the banister
tightly, came down the front steps. The round-bellied leader still
leered at her and fluttered one hand, though two big policemen were
just bending to extricate him. The gate was off its hinges, which seemed
strange, for she had been watching all the time and had not seen it
happen.

Bert's eyes were closed. His lips were blood-flecked, and there was a
gurgling in his throat as if he were trying to say something. As she
stooped above him, with her handkerchief brushing the blood from his
cheek where some one had stepped on him, his eyes opened. The old
defiant light was in them. CUT: Sir, though unworthy, and the weaker,
I will presume.

OTT: 'Tis no presumption, domine doctor.

MOR: Yet again!

CUT: Your question is, For how many causes a man may have divortium
legitimum, a lawful divorce?

First, you must understand the nature of the word, divorce, a divertendo--

MOR: No excursions upon words, good doctor, to the question briefly.

CUT: I answer then, the canon-law affords divorce but in a few
cases; and the principal is in the common case, the adulterous case:
But there are duodecim impedimenta, twelve impediments, as we call
them, all which do not dirimere contractum, but irritum reddere
matrimonium, as we say in the canon-law, not take away the bond,
but cause a nullity therein.

MOR: I understood you before: good sir, avoid your impertinency of
translation.

OTT: He cannot open this too much, sir, by your favour.

MOR: Yet more!

TRUE: O, you must give the learned men leave, sir.--To your impediments,
master Doctor.

CUT: The first is impedimentum erroris.

OTT: Of which there are several species.

CUT: Ay, as error personae.

OTT: If you contract yourself to one person, thinking her
another.

CUT: Then, error fortunae.

OTT: If she be a begger, and you thought her rich.

CUT: Then, error qualitatis.

OTT: If she prove stubborn or head-strong, that you thought obedient.

MOR: How!

is that, sir, a lawful impediment? One at once, I pray you gentlemen.

OTT: Ay, ante copulam, but not post copulam, sir.

CUT: Master Parson says right. Nec post nuptiarum benedictionem.
It doth indeed but irrita reddere sponsalia, annul the contract:
after marriage it is of no obstancy.

TRUE: Alas, sir, what a hope are we fallen from by this time!

CUT: The next is conditio: if you thought her free born, and she prove
a bond-woman, there is impediment of estate and condition.

OTT: Ay, but, master doctor, those servitudes are sublatae now, among
us Christians.

CUT: By your favour, master parson--
OTT: You shall give me leave, master doctor.

MOR: Nay, gentlemen, quarrel not in that question; it concerns not
my case: pass to the third.

CUT: Well then, the third is votum: if either party have made a vow
of chastity.

But that practice, as master parson said of the other, is taken away among
us, thanks be to discipline.

The fourth is cognatio: if the persons be of kin within the degrees.

OTT: Ay: do you know what the degrees are, sir?

MOR: No, nor I care not, sir: they offer me no comfort in the
question, I am sure.

CUT: But there is a branch of this impediment may, which is cognatio
spiritualis: if you were her godfather, sir, then the marriage is
incestuous.

OTT: That comment is absurd and superstitious, master doctor: I
cannot endure it.

Are we not all brothers and sisters, and as much akin in that, as
godfathers and god-daughters?

MOR: O me!

to end the controversy, I never was a godfather, I never was a godfather
in my life, sir. Pass to the next.

CUT: The fifth is crimen adulterii; the known case. The sixth,
cultus disparitas, difference of religion: have you ever examined her,
what religion she is of?

MOR: No, I would rather she were of none, than be put to the trouble
of it!

OTT: You may have it done for you, sir.

MOR: By no means, good sir; on to the rest: shall you ever come to
an end, think you?

TRUE: Yes, he has done half, sir.

On, to the rest.--Be patient, and expect, sir.

CUT: The seventh is, vis: if it were upon compulsion or force.

MOR: O no, it was too voluntary, mine; too voluntary.

CUT: The eight is, ordo; if ever she have taken holy orders.

OTT: That's supersitious too.

MOR: No matter, master parson: Would she would go into a nunnery
yet.

CUT: The ninth is, ligamen; if you were bound, sir, to any other
before.

MOR: I thrust myself too soon into these fetters.

CUT: The tenth is, publica honestas: which is inchoata quaedam
affinitas.

OTT: Ay, or affinitas orta ex sponsalibus; and is but leve impedimentum.

MOR: I feel no air of comfort blowing to me, in all this.

CUT: The eleventh is, affinitas ex fornicatione.

OTT: Which is no less vera affinitas, than the other, master doctor.

CUT: True, quae oritur ex legitimo matrimonio.

OTT: You say right, venerable doctor: and, nascitur ex eo, quod per
conjugium duae personae efficiuntur una caro--
MOR: Hey-day, now they begin!

CUT: I conceive you, master parson: ita per fornicationem aeque est verus
pater, qui sic generat--
OTT: Et vere filius qui sic generatur-- 
MOR: What's all this to me?

CLER: Now it grows warm.

CUT: The twelfth, and last is, si forte coire nequibis.

OTT: Ay, that is impedimentum gravissimum: it doth utterly annul,
and annihilate, that. If you have manifestam frigiditatem, you are
well, sir.

TRUE: Why, there is comfort come at length, sir. Confess yourself but a
man unable, and she will sue to be divorced first.

OTT: Ay, or if there be morbus perpetuus, et insanabilis; as paralysis,
elephantiasis, or so--

DAUP: O, but frigiditas is the fairer way, gentlemen.

OTT: You say troth, sir, and as it is in the canon, master doctor--
CUT: I conceive you, sir.

CLER: Before he speaks!

OTT: That a boy, or child, under years, is not fit for marriage, because
he cannot reddere debitum. So your omnipotentes--
TRUE [ASIDE TO OTT.]: Your impotentes, you whoreson lobster!

OTT: Your impotentes, I should say, are minime apti ad contrahenda
matrimonium.

TRUE: Matrimonium!

we shall have most unmatrimonial Latin with you: matrimonia, and be
hang'd.

DAUP: You put them out, man.

CUT: But then there will arise a doubt, master parson, in our case,
post matrimonium: that frigiditate praeditus--do you conceive me,
sir?

OTT: Very well, sir.

CUT: Who cannot uti uxore pro uxore, may habere eam pro sorore.

OTT: Absurd, absurd, absurd, and merely apostatical!

CUT: You shall pardon me, master parson, I can prove it.

OTT: You can prove a will, master doctor, you can prove nothing else.
Does not the verse of your own canon say, Haec socianda vetant connubia,
facta retractant?

CUT: I grant you; but how do they retractare, master parson?

MOR: O, this was it I feared.

OTT: In aeternum, sir.

CUT: That's false in divinity, by your favour.

OTT: 'Tis false in humanity to say so. Is he not prorsus inutilis ad thorum?
Can he praestare fidem datam? I would fain know.

CUT: Yes; how if he do convalere?

OTT: He cannot convalere, it is impossible.

TRUE: Nay, good sir, attend the learned men, they will think you neglect
them else.

CUT: Or, if he do simulare himself frigidum, odio uxoris, or so?

OTT: I say, he is adulter manifestus then.

DAUP: They dispute it very learnedly, i'faith.

OTT: And prostitutor uxoris; and this is positive.

MOR: Good sir, let me escape.

TRUE: You will not do me that wrong, sir?

OTT: And, therefore, if he be manifeste frigidus, sir--
CUT: Ay, if he be manifeste frigidus, I grant you--
OTT: Why, that was my conclusion.

CUT: And mine too.

TRUE: Nay, hear the conclusion, sir.

OTT: Then, frigiditatis causa--
CUT: Yes, causa frigiditatis--
MOR: O, mine ears!

OTT: She may have libellum divortii against you.

CUT: Ay, divortii libellum she will sure have.

MOR: Good echoes, forbear.

OTT: If you confess it.

CUT: Which I would do, sir--
MOR: I will do any thing.

OTT: And clear myself in foro conscientiae--

CUT: Because you want indeed--

MOR: Yet more?

OTT: Exercendi potestate.

[EPICOENE RUSHES IN, FOLLOWED BY HAUGHTY, CENTAURE, MAVIS, MISTRESS OTTER,
DAW, AND LA-FOOLE.]
EPI: I will not endure it any longer. Ladies, I beseech you, help me.
This is such a wrong as never was offered to poor bride before: upon
her marriage day, to have her husband conspire against her, and a couple
of mercenary companions to be brought in for form's sake, to
persuade a separation!

If you had blood or virtue in you, gentlemen, you would not suffer such
ear-wigs about a husband, or scorpions to creep between man and
wife.

MOR: O the variety and changes of my torment!

HAU: Let them be cudgell'd out of doors, by our grooms.

CEN: I'll lend you my foot-man.

MAV: We'll have our men blanket them in the hall.

MRS.

OTT: As there was one at our house, madam, for peeping in at the door.

DAW: Content, i'faith.

TRUE: Stay, ladies and gentlemen; you'll hear, before you proceed?

MAV: I'd have the bridegroom blanketted too.

CEN: Begin with him first.

HAU: Yes, by my troth.

MOR: O mankind generation!

DAUP: Ladies, for my sake forbear.

HAU: Yes, for sir Dauphine's sake.

CEN: He shall command us.

LA-F: He is as fine a gentleman of his inches, madam, as any is about the
town, and wears as good colours when he listS.

TRUE: Be brief, sir, and confess your infirmity, she'll be a-fire to
be quit of you, if she but hear that namEd once, you shall not
entreat her to stay: she'll fly you like one that had the marks
upon him.

MOR: Ladies, I must crave all your pardons--
TRUE: Silence, ladies.

MOR: For a wrong I have done to your whole sex, in marrying this fair,
and virtuous gentlewoman--
CLER: Hear him, good ladies.

MOR: Being guilty of an infirmity, which, before I conferred with these
learned men, I thought I might have concealed--
TRUE: But now being better informed in his conscience by them, he
is to declare it, and give satisfaction, by asking your public
forgiveness.

MOR: I am no man, ladies.

ALL: How!

MOR: Utterly unabled in nature, by reason of frigidity, to perform
the duties, or any the least office of a husband.

MAV: Now out upon him, prodigious creature!
CEN: Bridegroom uncarnate!
HAU: And would you offer it to a young gentlewoman?
MRS. OTT: A lady of her longings?
EPI: Tut, a device, a device, this, it smells rankly, ladies.
A mere comment of his own.
TRUE: Why, if you suspect that, ladies, you may have him search'd--
DAW: As the custom is, by a jury of physicians.
LA-F: Yes faith, 'twill be brave.
MOR: O me, must I undergo that?
MRS. OTT: No, let women search him, madam: we can do it ourselves.
MOR: Out on me! worse.
EPI: No, ladies, you shall not need, I will take him with all his
faults.

MOR: Worst of all!
CLER: Why then, 'tis no divorce, doctor, if she consent not?
CUT: No, if the man be frigidus, it is de parte uxoris, that we
grant libellum divortii, in the law.
OTT: Ay, it is the same in theology.
MOR: Worse, worse than worst!
TRUE: Nay, sir, be not utterly disheartened; we have yet a small
relic of hope left, as near as our comfort is blown out. Clerimont,
produce your brace of knights. What was that, master parson, you
told me in errore qualitatis, e'en now?-- [ASIDE.] Dauphine, whisper
the bride, that she carry it as if she were guilty, and ashamed.
OTT: Marry, sir, in errore qualitatis (which master doctor did
forbear to urge,) if she be found corrupta, that is, vitiated or
broken up, that was pro virgine desponsa, espoused for a maid--
MOR: What then, sir?
OTT: It doth dirimere contractum, and irritum reddere too.
TRUE: If this be true, we are happy again, sir, once more. Here are
an honourable brace of knights, that shall affirm so much.
DAW: Pardon us, good master Clerimont.
LA-F: You shall excuse us, master Clerimont.
CLER: Nay, you must make it good now, knights, there is no remedy;
I'll eat no words for you, nor no men: you know you spoke it to
me.

DAW: Is this gentleman-like, sir?
TRUE [ASIDE TO DAW.]: Jack Daw, he's worse then sir Amorous; fiercer
a great deal.
[ASIDE TO LA-FOOLE.]--Sir Amorous, beware, there be ten Daws in
this Clerimont.

LA-F: I'll confess it, sir.
DAW: Will you, sir Amorous, will you wound reputation?
LA-F: I am resolvEd.
TRUE: So should you be too, Jack Daw: what should keep you off?
she's but a woman, and in disgrace: he'll be glad on't.
DAW: Will he? I thought he would have been angry.
CLER: You will dispatch, knights, it must be done, i'faith.
TRUE: Why, an it must, it shall, sir, they say: they'll ne'er go
back.
[ASIDE TO THEM.] --Do not tempt his patience.
DAW: It is true indeed, sir?

LA-F: Yes, I assure you, sir.
MOR: What is true gentlemen? what do you assure me?
DAW: That we have known your bride, sir--
LA-F: In good fashion. She was our mistress, or so--
CLER: Nay, you must be plain, knights, as you were to me.
OTT: Ay, the question is, if you have carnaliter, or no?
LA-F: Carnaliter! what else, sir?
OTT: It is enough: a plain nullity.
EPI: I am undone, I am undone!
MOR: O, let me worship and adore you, gentlemen!
EPI [WEEPS.]: I am undone!
MOR: Yes, to my hand, I thank these knights.
Master parson, let me thank you otherwise. [GIVES HIM MONEY.]
HAU: And have they confess'd?

MAV: Now out upon them, informers!
TRUE: You see what creatures you may bestow your favours on,
madams.
HAU: I would except against them as beaten knights, wench, and not
good witnesses in law.
MRS. OTT: Poor gentlewoman, how she takes it!
HAU: Be comforted, Morose, I love you the better for't.
CEN: so do I, I protest.
CUT: But, gentlemen, you have not known her since matrimonium?
DAW: Not to-day, master doctor.

LA-F: No, sir, not to-day.
CUT: Why, then I say, for any act before, the matrimonium is good
and perfect: unless the worshipful bridegroom did precisely, before
witness, demand, if she were virgo ante nuptias.
EPI: No, that he did not, I assure you, master doctor.
CUT: If he cannot prove that, it is ratum conjugium, notwithstanding
the premisSes. And they do no way impedire. And this is my sentence,
this I pronounce.
OTT: I am of master doctor's resolution too, sir: if you made not
that demand, ante nuptias.
MOR: O my heart! wilt thou break? wilt thou break? this is worst
of all worst worsts that hell could have devised! Marry a whore,
and so much noise!
DAUP: Come, I see now plain confederacy in this doctor and this
parson, to abuse a gentleman. You study his affliction. I pray be
gone companions.--And, gentlemen, I begin to suspect you for having
parts with them.--Sir, will it please you hear me?
MOR: O do not talk to me, take not from me the pleasure of dying
in silence, nephew.
DAUP: Sir, I must speak to you. I have been long your poor despised
kinsman, and many a hard thought has strengthened you against me:
but now it shall appear if either I love you or your peace, and
prefer them to all the world beside. I will not be long or grievous
to you, sir. If I free you of this unhappy match absolutely, and
instantly, after all this trouble, and almost in your despair, now--
MOR: It cannot be.
DAUP: Sir, that you be never troubled with a murmur of it more,
what shall I hope for, or deserve of you?
MOR: O, what thou wilt, nephew! thou shalt deserve me, and have
me.
DAUP: Shall I have your favour perfect to me, and love hereafter?
MOR: That, and any thing beside. Make thine own conditions. My whole
estate is thine; manage it, I will become thy ward.
DAUP: Nay, sir, I will not be so unreasonable.
EPI: Will sir Dauphine be mine enemy too?
DAUP: You know I have been long a suitor to you, uncle, that out
of your estate, which is fifteen hundred a-year, you would allow
me but five hundred during life, and assure the rest upon me after:
to which I have often, by myself and friends tendered you a writing
to sign, which you would never consent or incline to. If you please
but to effect it now--
MOR: Thou shalt have it, nephew: I will do it, and more.
DAUP: If I quit you not presently, and for ever of this cumber, you
shall have power instantly, afore all these, to revoke your act,
and I will become whose slave you will give me to, for ever.
MOR: Where is the writing? I will seal to it, that, or to a blank,
and write thine own conditions.
EPI: O me, most unfortunate, wretched gentlewoman!
HAU: Will sir Dauphine do this?
EPI: Good sir, have some compassion on me.
MOR: O, my nephew knows you, belike; away, crocodile!
HAU: He does it not sure without good ground.
DAUP: Here, sir. [GIVES HIM THE PARCHMENTS.]
MOR: Come, nephew, give me the pen. I will subscribe to any thing,
and seal to what thou wilt, for my deliverance. Thou art my restorer.
Here, I deliver it thee as my deed. If there be a word in it lacking,
or writ with false orthography, I protest before [heaven] I will
not take the advantage.
[RETURNS THE WRITINGS.]
DAUP: Then here is your release, sir.
[TAKES OFF EPICOENE'S PERUKE AND OTHER DISGUISES.]"No gun-fighting or dynamite," he assented. "But a heap of scabs'll get
their heads broke. That has to be."

"But you won't do any of that, Billy."

"Not so as any slob can testify before a court to havin' seen me." Then,
with a quick shift, he changed the subject. "Old Barry Higgins is dead.
I didn't want to tell you till you was outa bed. Buried'm a week ago.
An' the old woman's movin' to Frisco. She told me she'd be in to say
good-bye. She stuck by you pretty well them first couple of days,
an' she showed Martha Shelton a few that made her hair curl. She got
Martha's goat from the jump."


CHAPTER XI

With Billy on strike and away doing picket duty, and with the departure
of Mercedes and the death of Bert, Saxon was left much to herself in a
loneliness that even in one as healthy-minded as she could not fail to
produce morbidness. Mary, too, had left, having spoken vaguely of taking
a job at housework in Piedmont.

Billy could help Saxon little in her trouble. He dimly sansed her
suffering, without comprehending the scope and intensity of it. He was
too man-practical, and, by his very sex, too remote from the intimate
tragedy that was hers. He was an outsider at the best, a friendly
onlooker who saw little. To her the baby had been quick and real. It was
still quick and real. That was her trouble. By no deliberate effort of
will could she fill the aching void of its absence. Its reality became,
at times, an hallucination. Somewhere it still was, and she must find
it. She would catch herself, on occasion, listening with strained ears
for the cry she had never heard, yet which, in fancy, she had heard a
thousand times in the happy months before the end. Twice she left her
bed in her sleep and went searching--each time coming to herself beside
her mother's chest of drawers in which were the tiny garments. To
herself, at such moments, she would say, "I had a baby once." And she
would say it, aloud, as she watched the children playing in the street.

One day, on the Eighth street cars, a young mother sat beside her, a
crowing infant in her arms. And Saxon said to her:

"I had a baby once. It died."

The mother looked at her, startled, half-drew the baby tighter in her
arms, jealously, or as if in fear; then she softened as she said:

"You poor thing."

"Yes," Saxon nodded. "It died."

Tear's welled into her eyes, and the telling of her grief seemed to have
brought relief. But all the day she suffered from an almost overwhelming
desire to recite her sorrow to the world--to the paying teller at the
bank, to the elderly floor-walker in Salinger's, to the blind woman,
guided by a little boy, who played on the concertina--to every one save
the policeman. The police were new and terrible creatures to her now.
She had seen them kill the strikers as mercilessly as the strikers had
killed the scabs. And, unlike the strikers, the police were professional
killers. They were not fighting for jobs. They did it as a business.
They could have taken prisoners that day, in the angle of her front
steps and the house. But they had not. Unconsciously, whenever
approaching one, she edged across the sidewalk so as to get as far
as possible away from him. She did not reason it out, but deeper than
consciousness was the feeling that they were typical of something
inimical to her and hers.

At Eighth and Broadway, waiting for her car to return home, the
policeman on the corner recognized her and greeted her. She turned
white to the lips, and her heart fluttered painfully. It was only Ned
Hermanmann, fatter, bronder-faced, jollier looking than ever. He had sat
across the aisle from her for three terms at school. He and she had been
monitors together of the composition books for one term. The day the
powder works blew up at Pinole, breaking every window in the school,
he and she had not joined in the panic rush for out-of-doors. Both had
remained in the room, and the irate principal had exhibited them, from
room to room, to the cowardly classes, and then rewarded them with a
month's holiday from school. And after that Ned Hermanmann had become a
policeman, and married Lena Highland, and Saxon had heard they had five
children.

But, in spite of all that, he was now a policeman, and Billy was now a
striker. Might not Ned Hermanmann some day club and shoot Billy just as
those other policemen clubbed and shot the strikers by her front steps?

"What's the matter, Saxon?" he asked. "Sick?"

She nodded and choked, unable to speak, and started to move toward her
car which was coming to a stop.

"I'll help you," he offered.

She shrank away from his hand.

"No; I'm all right," she gasped hurriedly. "I'm not going to take it.
I've forgotten something."

She turned away dizzily, up Broadway to Ninth. Two blocks along Ninth,
she turned down Clay and back to Eighth street, where she waited for
another car.


As the summer months dragged along, the industrial situation in Oakland
grew steadily worse. Capital everywhere seemed to have selected this
city for the battle with organized labor. So many men in Oakland were
out on strike, or were locked out, or were unable to work because of the
dependence of their trades on the other tied-up trade's, that odd jobs
at common labor were hard to obtain. Billy occasionally got a day's work
to do, but did not earn enough to make both ends meet, despite the small
strike wages received at first, and despite the rigid economy he and
Saxon practiced.

The table she set had scarcely anything in common with that of their
first married year. Not alone was every item of cheaper quality, but
many items had disappeared. Meat, and the poorest, was very seldom on
the table. Cow's milk had given place to condensed milk, and even the
sparing use of the latter had ceased. A roll of butter, when they had
it, lasted half a dozen times as long as formerly. Where Billy had been
used to drinking three cups of coffee for breakfast, he now drank one.
Saxon boiled this coffee an atrocious length of time, and she paid
twenty cents a pound for it.

The blight of hard times was on all the neighborhood. The families
not involved in one strike were touched by some other strike or by the
cessation of work in some dependent trade. Many single young men who
were lodgers had drifted away, thus increasing the house rent of the
families which had sheltered them.

"Gott!" said the butcher to Saxon. "We working class all suffer
together. My wife she cannot get her teeth fixed now. Pretty soon I go
smash broke maybe."

Once, when Billy was preparing to pawn his watch, Saxon suggested his
borrowing the money from Billy Murphy.

"I was plannin' that," Billy answered, "only I can't now. I didn't tell
you what happened Tuesday night at the Sporting Life Club. You remember
that squarehead Champion of the United States Navy? Bill was matched
with him, an' it was sure easy money. Bill had 'm goin' south by the
end of the sixth round, an' at the seventh went in to finish 'm. And
then--just his luck, for his trade's idle now--he snaps his right
forearm. Of course the squarehead comes back at 'm on the jump, an' it's
good night for Bill. Gee! Us Mohegans are gettin' our bad luck handed to
us in chunks these days."

"Don't!" Saxon cried, shuddering involuntarily.

"What?" Billy asked with open mouth of surprise.

"Don't say that word again. Bert was always saying it."

"Oh, Mohegans. All right, I won't. You ain't superstitions, are you?"

"No; but just the same there's too much truth in the word for me to
like it. Sometimes it seems as though he was right. Times have changed.
They've changed even since I was a little girl. We crossed the plains
and opened up this country, and now we're losing even the chance to work
for a living in it. And it's not my fault, it's not your fault. We've
got to live well or bad just by luck, it seems. There's no other way to
explain it."

"It beats me," Billy concurred. "Look at the way I worked last year.
Never missed a day. I'd want to never miss a day this year, an' here
I haven't done a tap for weeks an' weeks an' weeks. Say! Who runs this
country anyway?"

Saxon had stopped the morning paper, but frequently Maggie Donahue's
boy, who served a Tribune route, tossed an "extra" on her steps. From
its editorials Saxon gleaned that organized labor was trying to run the
country and that it was making a mess of it. It was all the fault of
domineering labor--so ran the editorials, column by column, day by day;
and Saxon was convinced, yet remained unconvinced. The social puzzle of
living was too intricate.

The teamsters' strike, backed financially by the teamsters of San
Francisco and by the allied unions of the San Francisco Water Front
Confederation, promised to be long-drawn, whether or not it was
successful. The Oakland harness-washers and stablemen, with few
exceptions, had gone out with the teamsters. The teaming firm's were not
half-filling their contracts, but the employers' association was helping
them. In fact, half the employers' associations of the Pacific Coast
were helping the Oakland Employers' Association.

Saxon was behind a month's rent, which, when it is considered that rent
was paid in advance, was equivalent to two months. Likewise, she was
two months behind in the installments on the furniture. Yet she was not
pressed very hard by Salinger's, the furniture dealers.

"We're givin' you all the rope we can," said their collector. "My orders
is to make you dig up every cent I can and at the same time not to be
too hard. Salinger's are trying to do the right thing, but they're up
against it, too. You've no idea how many accounts like yours they're
carrying along. Sooner or later they'll have to call a halt or get it in
the neck themselves. And in the meantime just see if you can't scrape up
five dollars by next week--just to cheer them along, you know."

One of the stablemen who had not gone out, Henderson by name, worked at
Billy's stables. Despite the urging of the bosses to eat and sleep in
the stable like the other men, Henderson had persisted in coming home
each morning to his little house around the corner from Saxon's on Fifth
street. Several times she had seen him swinging along defiantly, his
dinner pail in his hand, while the neighborhood boys dogged his heels
at a safe distance and informed him in yapping chorus that he was a scab
and no good. But one evening, on his way to work, in a spirit of bravado
he went into the Pile-Drivers' Home, the saloon at Seventh and Pine.
There it was his mortal mischance to encounter Otto Frank, a striker
who drove from the same stable. Not many minutes later an ambulance was
hurrying Henderson to the receiving hospital with a fractured skull,
while a patrol wagon was no less swiftly carrying Otto Frank to the city
prison.

Maggie Donahue it was, eyes shining with gladness, who told Saxon of the
happening.

"Served him right, too, the dirty scab," Maggie concluded.

"But his poor wife!" was Saxon's cry. "She's not strong. And then the
children. She'll never be able to take care of them if her husband
dies."

"An' serve her right, the damned slut!"

Saxon was both shocked and hurt by the Irishwoman's brutality. But
Maggie was implacable.

"'Tis all she or any woman deserves that'll put up an' live with a scab.
What about her children? Let'm starve, an' her man a-takin' the food out
of other children's mouths."

Mrs. Olsen's attitude was different. Beyond passive sentimental pity
for Henderson's wife and children, she gave them no thought, her chief
concern being for Otto Frank and Otto Frank's wife and children--herself
and Mrs. Frank being full sisters.

"If he dies, they will hang Otto," she said. "And then what will poor
Hilda do? She has varicose veins in both legs, and she never can stand
on her feet all day an' work for wages. And me, I cannot help. Ain't
Carl out of work, too?"

Billy had still another point of view.

"It will give the strike a black eye, especially if Henderson croaks,"
he worried, when he came home. "They'll hang Frank on record time.
Besides, we'll have to put up a defense, an' lawyers charge like Sam
Hill. They'll eat a hole in our treasury you could drive every team in
Oakland through. An' if Frank hadn't ben screwed up with whisky he'd
never a-done it. He's the mildest, good-naturedest man sober you ever
seen."

Twice that evening Billy left the house to find out if Henderson was
dead yet. In the morning the papers gave little hope, and the evening
papers published his death. Otto Frank lay in jail without bail. The
Tribune demanded a quick trial and summary execution, calling on the
prospective jury manfully to do its duty and dwelling at length on the
moral effect that would be so produced upon the lawless working class.
It went further, emphasizing the salutary effect machine guns would have
on the mob that had taken the fair city of Oakland by the throat.

And all such occurrences struck at Saxon personally. Practically alone
in the world, save for Billy, it was her life, and his, and their mutual
love-life, that was menaced. From the moment he left the house to the
moment of his return she knew no peace of mind. Rough work was afoot, of
which he told her nothing, and she knew he was playing his part in it.
On more than one occasion she noticed fresh-broken skin on his knuckles.
At such times he was remarkably taciturn, and would sit in brooding
silence or go almost immediately to bed. She was afraid to have this
habit of reticence grow on him, and bravely she bid for his confidence.
She climbed into his lap and inside his arms, one of her arms around
his neck, and with the free hand she caressed his hair back from the
forehead and smoothed out the moody brows.

"Now listen to me, Billy Boy," she began lightly. "You haven't been
playing fair, and I won't have it. No!" She pressed his lips shut with
her fingers. "I'm doing the talking now, and because you haven't been
doing your share of the talking for some time. You remember we agreed
at the start to always talk things over. I was the first to break this,
when I sold my fancy work to Mrs. Higgins without speaking to you about
it. And I was very sorry. I am still sorry. And I've never done it
since. Now it's your turn. You're not talking things over with me. You
are doing things you don't tell me about.

"Billy, you're dearer to me than anything else in the world. You
know that. We're sharing each other's lives, only, just now, there's
something you're not sharing. Every time your knuckles are sore, there's
something you don't share. If you can't trust me, you can't trust
anybody. And, besides, I love you so that no matter what you do I'll go
on loving you just the same."

Billy gazed at her with fond incredulity.

"Don't be a pincher," she teased. "Remember, I stand for whatever you
do."

"And you won't buck against me?" he queried.

"How can I? I'm not your boss, Billy. I wouldn't boss you for anything
in the world. And if you'd let me boss you, I wouldn't love you half as
much."

He digested this slowly, and finally nodded.

"An' you won't be mad?"

"With you? You've never seen me mad yet. Now come on and be generous and
tell me how you hurt your knuckles. It's fresh to-day. Anybody can see
that."

"All right. I'll tell you how it happened." He stopped and giggled with
genuine boyish glee at some recollection. "It's like this. You won't be
mad, now? We gotta do these sort of things to hold our own. Well, here's
the show, a regular movin' picture except for file talkin'. Here's a big
rube comin' along, hayseed stickin' out all over, hands like hams an'
feet like Mississippi gunboats. He'd make half as much again as me in
size an' he's young, too. Only he ain't lookin' for trouble, an' he's as
innocent as... well, he's the innocentest scab that ever come down the
pike an' bumped into a couple of pickets. Not a regular strike-breaker,
you see, just a big rube that's read the bosses' ads an' come a-humpin'
to town for the big wages.

"An' here's Bud Strothers an' me comin' along. We always go in pairs
that way, an' sometimes bigger bunches. I flag the rube. 'Hello,' says
I, 'lookin' for a job?' 'You bet,' says he. 'Can you drive?' 'Yep.'
'Four horses!' 'Show me to 'em,' says he. 'No josh, now,' says I;
'you're sure wantin' to drive?' 'That's what I come to town for,' he
says. 'You're the man we're lookin' for,' says I. 'Come along, an' we'll
have you busy in no time.'

"You see, Saxon, we can't pull it off there, because there's Tom
Scanlon--you know, the red-headed cop only a couple of blocks away an'
pipin' us off though not recognizin' us. So away we go, the three of us,
Bud an' me leadin' that boob to take our jobs away from us I guess nit.
We turn into the alley back of Campwell's grocery. Nobody in sight. Bud
stops short, and the rube an' me stop.

"'I don't think he wants to drive,' Bud says, considerin'. An' the rube
says quick, 'You betcher life I do.' 'You're dead sure you want that
job?' I says. Yes, he's dead sure. Nothin's goin' to keep him away from
that job. Why, that job's what he come to town for, an' we can't lead
him to it too quick.

"'Well, my friend,' says I, 'it's my sad duty to inform you that
you've made a mistake.' 'How's that?' he says. 'Go on,' I says; 'you're
standin' on your foot.' And, honest to God, Saxon, that gink looks down
at his feet to see. 'I don't understand,' says he. 'We're goin' to show
you,' says I.

"An' then--Biff! Bang! Bingo! Swat! Zooie! Ker-slambango-blam!
Fireworks, Fourth of July, Kingdom Come, blue lights, sky-rockets, an'
hell fire--just like that. It don't take long when you're scientific an'
trained to tandem work. Of course it's hard on the knuckles. But say,
Saxon, if you'd seen that rube before an' after you'd thought he was a
lightnin' change artist. Laugh? You'd a-busted."

Billy halted to give vent to his own mirth. Saxon forced herself to
join with him, but down in her heart was horror. Mercedes was right. The
stupid workers wrangled and snarled over jobs. The clever masters rode
in automobiles and did not wrangle and snarl. They hired other stupid
ones to do the wrangling and snarling for them. It was men like Bert and
Frank Davis, like Chester Johnson and Otto Frank, like Jelly Belly and
the Pinkertons, like Henderson and all the rest of the scabs, who were
beaten up, shot, clubbed, or hanged. Ah, the clever ones were very
clever. Nothing happened to them. They only rode in their automobiles.

"'You big stiffs,' the rube snivels as he crawls to his feet at the
end," Billy was continuing. "'You think you still want that job?' I ask.
He shakes his head. Then I read'm the riot act 'They's only one thing
for you to do, old hoss, an' that's beat it. D'ye get me? Beat it. Back
to the farm for YOU. An' if you come monkeyin' around town again, we'll
be real mad at you. We was only foolin' this time. But next time we
catch you your own mother won't know you when we get done with you.'

"An'--say!--you oughta seen'm beat it. I bet he's goin' yet. Ah' when he
gets back to Milpitas, or Sleepy Hollow, or wherever he hangs out, an'
tells how the boys does things in Oakland, it's dollars to doughnuts
they won't be a rube in his district that'd come to town to drive if
they offered ten dollars an hour."

"It was awful," Saxon said, then laughed well-simulated appreciation.

"But that was nothin'," Billy went on. "A bunch of the boys caught
another one this morning. They didn't do a thing to him. My goodness
gracious, no. In less'n two minutes he was the worst wreck they ever
hauled to the receivin' hospital. The evenin' papers gave the score:
nose broken, three bad scalp wounds, front teeth out, a broken
collarbone, an' two broken ribs. Gee! He certainly got all that was
comin' to him. But that's nothin'. D'ye want to know what the Frisco
teamsters did in the big strike before the Earthquake? They took every
scab they caught an' broke both his arms with a crowbar. That was so he
couldn't drive, you see. Say, the hospitals was filled with 'em. An' the
teamsters won that strike, too."

"But is it necessary, Billy, to be so terrible? I know they're scabs,
and that they're taking the bread out of the strikers' children's mouths
to put in their own children's mouths, and that it isn't fair and all
that; but just the same is it necessary to be so... terrible?"

"Sure thing," Billy answered confidently. "We just gotta throw the fear
of God into them--when we can do it without bein' caught."

"And if you're caught?"

"Then the union hires the lawyers to defend us, though that ain't
much good now, for the judges are pretty hostyle, an' the papers keep
hammerin' away at them to give stiffer an' stiffer sentences. Just
the same, before this strike's over there'll be a whole lot of guys
a-wishin' they'd never gone scabbin'."

The first essay is a forlorn hope. See what the chances are: "The
world exists for the education of each man. . . . He should see that he
can live all history in his own person. He must sit solidly at home,
and not suffer himself to be bullied by kings or empires, but know
that he is greater than all the geography and all the government of the
world; he must transfer the point of view from which history is commonly
read from Rome and Athens and London to himself, and not deny his
conviction that he is the court, and, if England or Egypt have anything
to say to him, he will try the case; if not, let them forever be silent."
In every essay that follows, there are the same great odds and the same
electric call to the youth to face them. It is, indeed, as much a
world of fable and romance that Emerson introduces us to as we get
in Homer or Herodotus.

It is true, all true,--true as Arthur and his knights, or Pilgrim's Progress,
and I pity the man who has not tasted its intoxication, or who can
see nothing in it.

The intuitions are the bright band, without armor or shield, that slay
the mailed and bucklered giants of the understanding.
Government, institutions, religions, fall before the glance of the
hero's eye.

Art and literature, Shakespeare, Angelo, Aeschylus, are humble
suppliants before you, the king.

The commonest fact is idealized, and the whole relation of man to
the universe is thrown into a kind of gigantic perspective.

It is not much to say there is exaggeration; the very start makes
Mohammed's attitude toward the mountain tame.

The mountain _shall_ come to Mohammed, and, in the eyes of all born readers
of Emerson, the mountain does come, and comes with alacrity.

Some shrewd judges apprehend that Emerson is not going to last;
basing their opinion upon the fact, already alluded to, that we
outgrow him, or pass through him as through an experience that we
cannot repeat.

He is but a bridge to other things; he gets you over. He is an exceptional
fact in literature, say they, and does not represent lasting or universal
conditions. He is too fine for the rough wear and tear of ages. True,
we do not outgrow Dante, or Cervantes, or Bacon; and I doubt if the
Anglo-Saxon stock at least ever outgrows that king of romancers,
Walter Scott. These men and their like appeal to a larger audience,
and in some respects a more adult one, at least one more likely to
be found in every age and people.

Their achievement was more from the common level of human nature
than are Emerson's astonishing paradoxes.

Yet I believe his work has the seal of immortality upon it as much
as that of any of them.

No doubt he has a meaning to us now and in this country that will be lost
to succeeding time. His religious significance will not be so
important to the next generation. He is being or has been so completely
absorbed by his times, that readers and hearers hereafter will get him
from a thousand sources, or his contribution will become the common
property of the race.
The nearness of such a sum, the possibility of it, was almost stunning
to Saxon, sitting at a supper which consisted of boiled potatoes,
warmed-over beans, and a small dry onion which they were eating raw.
There was neither bread, coffee, nor butter. The onion Billy had pulled
from his pocket, having picked it up in the street. One hundred dollars
a month! She moistened her lips and fought for control.

"What made them offer it to you?" she questioned.

"That's easy," was his answer. "They got a dozen reasons. The guy the
boss has had exercisin' Prince and King is a dub. King has gone lame in
the shoulders. Then they're guessin' pretty strong that I'm the party
that's put a lot of their scabs outa commission. Macklin's ben their
foreman for years an' years--why I was in knee pants when he was
foreman. Well, he's sick an' all in. They gotta have somebody to take
his place. Then, too, I've been with 'em a long time. An' on top of
that, I'm the man for the job. They know I know horses from the ground
up. Hell, it's all I'm good for, except sluggin'."

"Think of it, Billy!" she breathed. "A hundred dollars a month! A
hundred dollars a month!"

"An' throw the fellows down," he said.

It was not a question. Nor was it a statement. It was anything Saxon
chose to make of it. They looked at each other. She waited for him to
speak; but he continued merely to look. It came to her that she was
facing one of the decisive moments of her life, and she gripped herself
to face it in all coolness. Nor would Billy proffer her the slightest
help. Whatever his own judgment might be, he masked it with an
expressionless face. His eyes betrayed nothing. He looked and waited.

"You... you can't do that, Billy," she said finally. "You can't throw
the fellows down."

His hand shot out to hers, and his face was a sudden, radiant dawn.

"Put her there!" he cried, their hands meeting and clasping. "You're the
truest true blue wife a man ever had. If all the other fellows' wives
was like you, we could win any strike we tackled."

"What would you have done if you weren't married, Billy?"

"Seen 'em in hell first."

"Than it doesn't make any difference being married. I've got to stand by
you in everything you stand for. I'd be a nice wife if I didn't."

She remembered her caller of the afternoon, and knew the moment was too
propitious to let pass.

"There was a man here this afternoon, Billy. He wanted a room. I told
him I'd speak to you. He said he would pay six dollars a month for the
back bedroom. That would pay half a month's installment on the furniture
and buy a sack of flour, and we're all out of flour."

Billy's old hostility to the idea was instantly uppermost, and Saxon
watched him anxiously.

"Some scab in the shops, I suppose?"

"No; he's firing on the freight run to San Jose. Harmon, he said his
name was, James Harmon. They've just transferred him from the Truckee
division. He'll sleep days mostly, he said; and that's why he wanted a
quiet house without children in it."

In the end, with much misgiving, and only after Saxon had insistently
pointed out how little work it entailed on her, Billy consented, though
he continued to protest, as an afterthought:

"But I don't want you makin' beds for any man. It ain't right, Saxon. I
oughta take care of you."

"And you would," she flashed back at him, "if you'd take the
foremanship. Only you can't. It wouldn't be right. And if I'm to stand
by you it's only fair to let me do what I can."

James Harmon proved even less a bother than Saxon had anticipated. For
a fireman he was scrupulously clean, always washing up in the roundhouse
before he came home. He used the key to the kitchen door, coming and
going by the back steps. To Saxon he barely said how-do-you-do or good
day; and, sleeping in the day time and working at night, he was in the
house a week before Billy laid eyes on him.

Billy had taken to coming home later and later, and to going out after
supper by himself. He did not offer to tell Saxon where he went. Nor did
she ask. For that matter it required little shrewdness on her part to
guess. The fumes of whisky were on his lips at such times. His slow,
deliberate ways were even slower, even more deliberate. Liquor did
not affect his legs. He walked as soberly as any man. There was no
hesitancy, no faltering, in his muscular movements. The whisky went to
his brain, making his eyes heavy-lidded and the cloudiness of them
more cloudy. Not that he was flighty, nor quick, nor irritable. On the
contrary, the liquor imparted to his mental processes a deep gravity and
brooding solemnity. He talked little, but that little was ominous
and oracular. At such times there was no appeal from his judgment, no
discussion. He knew, as God knew. And when he chose to speak a harsh
thought, it was ten-fold harsher than ordinarily, because it seemed
to proceed out of such profundity of cogitation, because it was as
prodigiously deliberate in its incubation as it was in its enunciation.

It was not a nice side he was showing to Saxon. It was, almost, as if a
stranger had come to live with her. Despite herself, she found herself
beginning to shrink from him. And little could she comfort herself
with the thought that it was not his real self, for she remembered his
gentleness and considerateness, all his finenesses of the past. Then
he had made a continual effort to avoid trouble and fighting. Now he
enjoyed it, exulted in it, went looking for it. All this showed in
his face. No longer was he the smiling, pleasant-faced boy. He smiled
infrequently now. His face was a man's face. The lips, the eyes, the
lines were harsh as his thoughts were harsh.

He was rarely unkind to Saxon; but, on the other hand he was
rarely kind. His attitude toward her was growing negative. He was
disinterested. Despite the fight for the union she was enduring with
him, putting up with him shoulder to shoulder, she occupied but little
space in his mind. When he acted toward her gently, she could see that
it was merely mechanical, just as she was well aware that the endearing
terms he used, the endearing caresses he gave, were only habitual. The
spontaneity and warmth had gone out. Often, when he was not in liquor,
flashes of the old Billy came back, but even such flashes dwindled in
frequency. He was growing preoccupied, moody. Hard times and the bitter
stresses of industrial conflict strained him. Especially was this
apparent in his sleep, when he suffered paroxysms of lawless dreams,
groaning and muttering, clenching his fists, grinding his teeth,
twisting with muscular tensions, his face writhing with passions and
violences, his throat guttering with terrible curses that rasped and
aborted on his lips. And Saxon, lying beside him, afraid of this visitor
to her bed whom she did not know, remembered what Mary had told her of
Bert. He, too, had cursed and clenched his fists, in his nights fought
out the battles of his days.

One thing, however, Saxon saw clearly. By no deliberate act of Billy's
was he becoming this other and unlovely Billy. Were there no strike, no
snarling and wrangling over jobs, there would be only the old Billy she
had loved in all absoluteness. This sleeping terror in him would have
lain asleep. It was something that was being awakened in him, an image
incarnate of outward conditions, as cruel, as ugly, as maleficent as
were those outward conditions. But if the strike continued, then,
she feared, with reason, would this other and grisly self of Billy
strengthen to fuller and more forbidding stature. And this, she knew,
would mean the wreck of their love-life. Such a Billy she could not
love; in its nature such a Billy was not lovable nor capable of love.
And then, at the thought of offspring, she shuddered. It was too
terrible. And at such moments of contemplation, from her soul the
inevitable plaint of the human went up: WHY? WHY? WHY?

Billy, too, had his unanswerable queries.

"Why won't the building trades come out?" he demanded wrathfuly of the
obscurity that veiled the ways of living and the world. "But no; O'Brien
won't stand for a strike, and he has the Building Trades Council under
his thumb. But why don't they chuck him and come out anyway? We'd win
hands down all along the line. But no, O'Brien's got their goat, an' him
up to his dirty neck in politics an' graft! An' damn the Federation of
Labor! If all the railroad boys had come out, wouldn't the shop men have
won instead of bein' licked to a frazzle? Lord, I ain't had a smoke of
decent tobacco or a cup of decent coffee in a coon's age. I've forgotten
what a square meal tastes like. I weighed myself yesterday. Fifteen
pounds lighter than when the strike begun. If it keeps on much more I
can fight middleweight. An' this is what I get after payin' dues into
the union for years and years. I can't get a square meal, an' my wife
has to make other men's beds. It makes my tired ache. Some day I'll get
real huffy an' chuck that lodger out."

"But it's not his fault, Billy," Saxon protested.

"Who said it was?" Billy snapped roughly. "Can't I kick in general if
I want to? Just the same it makes me sick. What's the good of organized
labor if it don't stand together? For two cents I'd chuck the whole
thing up an' go over to the employers. Only I wouldn't, God damn them!
If they think they can beat us down to our knees, let 'em go ahead an'
try it, that's all. But it gets me just the same. The whole world's
clean dippy. They ain't no sense in anything. What's the good of
supportin' a union that can't win a strike? What's the good of knockin'
the blocks off of scabs when they keep a-comin' thick as ever? The whole
thing's bughouse, an' I guess I am, too."

Such an outburst on Billy's part was so unusual that it was the only
time Saxon knew it to occur. Always he was sullen, and dogged, and
unwhipped; while whisky only served to set the maggots of certitude
crawling in his brain.

One night Billy did not get home till after twelve. Saxon's anxiety was
increased by the fact that police fighting and head breaking had been
reported to have occurred. When Billy came, his appearance verified
the report. His coatsleeves were half torn off. The Windsor tie had
disappeared from under his soft turned-down collar, and every button had
been ripped off the front of the shirt. When he took his hat off, Saxon
was frightened by a lump on his head the size of an apple.

"D'ye know who did that? That Dutch slob Hermanmann, with a riot club.
An' I'll get'm for it some day, good an' plenty. An' there's another
fellow I got staked out that'll be my meat when this strike's over an'
things is settled down. Blanchard's his name, Roy Blanchard."

"Not of Blanchard, Perkins and Company?" Saxon asked, busy washing
Billy's hurt and making her usual fight to keep him calm.

"Yep; except he's the son of the old man. What's he do, that ain't done
a tap of work in all his life except to blow the old man's money? He
goes strike-breakin'. Grandstand play, that's what I call it. Gets his
name in the papers an makes all the skirts he runs with fluster up an'
say: 'My! Some bear, that Roy Blanchard, some bear.' Some bear--the
gazabo! He'll be bear-meat for me some day. I never itched so hard to
lick a man in my life.

"And--oh, I guess I'll pass that Dutch cop up. He got his already.
Somebody broke his head with a lump of coal the size of a water bucket.
That was when the wagons was turnin' into Franklin, just off Eighth, by
the old Galindo Hotel. They was hard fightin' there, an' some guy in the
hotel lams that coal down from the second story window.

"They was fightin' every block of the way--bricks, cobblestones, an'
police-clubs to beat the band. They don't dast call out the troops. An'
they was afraid to shoot. Why, we tore holes through the police force,
an' the ambulances and patrol wagons worked over-time. But say, we got
the procession blocked at Fourteenth and Broadway, right under the
nose of the City Hall, rushed the rear end, cut out the horses of five
wagons, an' handed them college guys a few love-pats in passin'. All
that saved 'em from hospital was the police reserves. Just the same we
had 'em jammed an hour there. You oughta seen the street cars blocked,
too--Broadway, Fourteenth, San Pablo, as far as you could see."

"But what did Blanchard do?" Saxon called him back.

"He led the procession, an' he drove my team. All the teams was from my
stable. He rounded up a lot of them college fellows--fraternity guys,
they're called--yaps that live off their fathers' money. They come to
the stable in big tourin' cars an' drove out the wagons with half the
police of Oakland to help them. Say, it was sure some day. The
sky rained cobblestones. An' you oughta heard the clubs on our
heads--rat-tat-tat-tat, rat-tat-tat-tat! An' say, the chief of police,
in a police auto, sittin' up like God Almighty--just before we got to
Peralta street they was a block an' the police chargin', an' an old
woman, right from her front gate, lammed the chief of police full in the
face with a dead cat. Phew! You could hear it. 'Arrest that woman!' he
yells, with his handkerchief out. But the boys beat the cops to her an'
got her away. Some day? I guess yes. The receivin' hospital went outa
commission on the jump, an' the overflow was spilled into St. Mary's
Hospital, an' Fabiola, an' I don't know where else. Eight of our men was
pulled, an' a dozen of the Frisco teamsters that's come over to
help. They're holy terrors, them Frisco teamsters. It seemed half the
workingmen of Oakland was helpin' us, an' they must be an army of them
in jail. Our lawyers'll have to take their cases, too.

"But take it from me, it's the last we'll see of Roy Blanchard an'
yaps of his kidney buttin' into our affairs. I guess we showed 'em some
football. You know that brick buildin' they're puttin' up on Bay
street? That's where we loaded up first, an', say, you couldn't see the
wagon-seats for bricks when they started from the stables. Blanchard
drove the first wagon, an' he was knocked clean off the seat once, but
he stayed with it."

"He must have been brave," Saxon commented.

"Brave?" Billy flared. "With the police, an' the army an' navy behind
him? I suppose you'll be takin' their part next. Brave? A-takin' the
food outa the mouths of our women an children. Didn't Curley Jones's
little kid die last night? Mother's milk not nourishin', that's what it
was, because she didn't have the right stuff to eat. An' I know, an'
you know, a dozen old aunts, an' sister-in-laws, an' such, that's had to
hike to the poorhouse because their folks couldn't take care of 'em in
these times."

In the morning paper Saxon read the exciting account of the futile
attempt to break the teamsters' strike. Roy Blanchard was hailed a hero
and held up as a model of wealthy citizenship. And to save herself
she could not help glowing with appreciation of his courage. There was
something fine in his going out to face the snarling pack. A brigadier
general of the regular army was quoted as lamenting the fact that the
troops had not been called out to take the mob by the throat and
shake law and order into it. "This is the time for a little healthful
bloodletting," was the conclusion of his remarks, after deploring
the pacific methods of the police. "For not until the mob has been
thoroughly beaten and cowed will tranquil industrial conditions obtain."

That evening Saxon and Billy went up town. Returning home and finding
nothing to eat, he had taken her on one arm, his overcoat on the other.
The overcoat he had pawned at Uncle Sam's, and he and Saxon had eaten
drearily at a Japanese restaurant which in some miraculous way managed
to set a semi-satisfying meal for ten cents. After eating, they started
on their way to spend an additional five cents each on a moving picture
show.

At the Central Bank Building, two striking teamsters accosted Billy
and took him away with them. Saxon waited on the corner, and when
he returned, three quarters of an hour later, she knew he had been
drinking.

DAW: Grave asses! mere essayists: a few loose sentences, and
that's all. A man would talk so, his whole age: I do utter as good things
every hour, if they were collected and observed, as either of them.

DAUP: Indeed, sir John!

CLER: He must needs; living among the wits and braveries too.

DAUP: Ay, and being president of them, as he is.

DAW: There's Aristotle, a mere common-place fellow; Plato, a discourser;
Thucydides and Livy, tedious and dry; Tacitus, an entire knot:
sometimes worth the untying, very seldom.

CLER: What do you think of the poets, sir John?

DAW: Not worthy to be named for authors.

Homer, an old tedious, prolix ass, talks of curriers, and chines
of beef.

Virgil of dunging of land, and bees. Horace, of I know not what.

CLER: I think so.

DAW: And so Pindarus, Lycophron, Anacreon, Catullus, Seneca the
tragedian, Lucan, Propertius, Tibullus, Martial, Juvenal, Ausonius,
Statius, Politian, Valerius Flaccus, and the rest--
CLER: What a sack full of their names he has got!

DAUP: And how he pours them out! Politian with Valerius Flaccus!

CLER: Was not the character right of him?

DAUP: As could be made, i'faith.

DAW: And Persius, a crabbed coxcomb, not to be endured.

DAUP: Why, whom do you account for authors, sir John Daw?

DAW: Syntagma juris civilis; Corpus juris civilis; Corpus juris
canonici; the king of Spain's bible--
DAUP: Is the king of Spain's bible an author?

CLER: Yes, and Syntagma.

DAUP: What was that Syntagma, sir?

DAW: A civil lawyer, a Spaniard.

DAUP: Sure, Corpus was a Dutchman.

CLER: Ay, both the Corpuses, I knew 'em: they were very corpulent
authors.

DAW: And, then there's Vatablus, Pomponatius, Symancha: the other are
not to be received, within the thought of a scholar.

DAUP: 'Fore God, you have a simple learned servant, lady,-- in titles.
[ASIDE.]
CLER: I wonder that he is not called to the helm, and made a
counsellor!

DAUP: He is one extraordinary.

CLER: Nay, but in ordinary: to say truth, the state wants such.

DAUP: Why that will follow.

CLER: I muse a mistress can be so silent to the dotes of such a
servant.

DAW: 'Tis her virtue, sir. I have written somewhat of her silence
too.

DAUP: In verse, sir John?

CLER: What else?

DAUP: Why? how can you justify your own being of a poet, that
so slight all the old poets?

DAW: Why? every man that writes in verse is not a poet; you have of the
wits that write verses, and yet are no poets: they are poets that live
by it, the poor fellows that live by it.

DAUP: Why, would not you live by your verses, sir John?

CLER: No, 'twere pity he should. A knight live by his verses? he did
not make them to that end, I hope.

DAUP: And yet the noble Sidney lives by his, and the noble family not
ashamed.

CLER: Ay, he profest himself; but sir John Daw has more caution:
he'll not hinder his own rising in the state so much. Do you think he
will? Your verses, good sir John, and no poems.

DAW: Silence in woman, is like speech in man, Deny't who can.

DAUP: Not I, believe it: your reason, sir.

DAW: Nor, is't a tale, That female vice should be a virtue male, Or
masculine vice a female virtue be:
You shall it see Prov'd with increase; I know to speak, and she to
hold her peace.

Do you conceive me, gentlemen?

DAUP: No, faith; how mean you "with increase," sir John?

DAW: Why, with increase is, when I court her for the common cause of
mankind; and she says nothing, but "consentire videtur": and in time
is gravida.

DAUP: Then this is a ballad of procreation?

CLER: A madrigal of procreation; you mistake.

EPI: 'Pray give me my verses again, servant.

DAW: If you'll ask them aloud, you shall.
[WALKS ASIDE WITH THE PAPERS.]

[ENTER TRUEWIT WITH HIS HORN.]
CLER: See, here's Truewit again!--Where hast thou been, in the name
of madness! thus accoutred with thy horn?

TRUE: Where the sound of it might have pierced your sense with gladness,
had you been in ear-reach of it. Dauphine, fall down and worship me: I
have forbid the bans, lad: I have been with thy virtuous uncle,
and have broke the match.

DAUP: You have not, I hope.

TRUE: Yes faith; if thou shouldst hope otherwise, I should repent
me:
this horn got me entrance; kiss it. I had no other way to get in, but by
faining to be a post; but when I got in once, I proved none, but rather
the contrary, turn'd him into a post, or a stone, or what is stiffer,
with thundering into him the incommodities of a wife, and the miseries
of marriage.

If ever Gorgon were seen in the shape of a woman, he hath seen her
in my description: I have put him off o' that scent for ever.

--Why do you not applaud and adore me, sirs?

why stand you mute?

are you stupid? You are not worthy of the benefit.

DAUP: Did not I tell you? Mischief!--
CLER: I would you had placed this benefit somewhere else.

TRUE: Why so?

CLER: 'Slight, you have done the most inconsiderate, rash, weak thing,
that ever man did to his friend.

DAUP: Friend! if the most malicious enemy I have, had studied to inflict
an injury upon me, it could not be a greater.

TRUE: Wherein, for Gods-sake? Gentlemen, come to yourselves again.

DAUP: But I presaged thus much afore to you.

CLER: Would my lips had been solder'd when I spake on't. Slight, what
moved you to be thus impertinent?

TRUE: My masters, do not put on this strange face to pay my courtesy; off
with this visor.

Have good turns done you, and thank 'em this way!

DAUP: 'Fore heav'n, you have undone me. That which I have plotted for,
and been maturing now these four months, you have blasted in a
minute: Now I am lost, I may speak.

This gentlewoman was lodged here by me o' purpose, and, to be put upon
my uncle, hath profest this obstinate silence for my sake; being
my entire friend, and one that for the requital of such a fortune
as to marry him, would have made me very ample conditions: where
now, all my hopes are utterly miscarried by this unlucky accident.

CLER: Thus 'tis when a man will be ignorantly officious, do services,
and not know his why; I wonder what courteous itch possest you. You never
did absurder part in your life, nor a greater trespass to friendship
or humanity.

DAUP: Faith, you may forgive it best: 'twas your cause principally.

CLER: I know it, would it had not.

[ENTER CUTBEARD.]

DAUP: How now, Cutbeard! what news?

CUT: The best, the happiest that ever was, sir. There has been a mad
gentleman with your uncle, this morning, [SEEING TRUEWIT.] --I think
this be the gentleman--that has almost talk'd him out of his wits,
with threatening him from marriage--
DAUP: On, I prithee.

CUT: And your uncle, sir, he thinks 'twas done by your procurement;
therefore he will see the party you wot of presently: and if he like
her, he says, and that she be so inclining to dumb as I have told
him, he swears he will marry her, to-day, instantly, and not defer it
a minute longer.

DAUP: Excellent! beyond our expectation!

TRUE: Beyond our expectation! By this light, I knew it would be
thus.

DAUP: Nay, sweet Truewit, forgive me.

TRUE: No, I was ignorantly officious, impertinent: this was the absurd,
weak part.

CLER: Wilt thou ascribe that to merit now, was mere fortune?

TRUE: Fortune! mere providence. Fortune had not a finger in't. I saw
it must necessarily in nature fall out so: my genius is never false
to me in these things.

Shew me how it could be otherwise.

DAUP: Nay, gentlemen, contend not, 'tis well now.

TRUE: Alas, I let him go on with inconsiderate, and rash, and what
he pleas'd.

CLER: Away, thou strange justifier of thyself, to be wiser than thou wert,
by the event!

TRUE: Event! by this light, thou shalt never persuade me, but I
foresaw it as well as the stars themselves.

DAUP: Nay, gentlemen, 'tis well now. Do you two entertain sir John
Daw with discourse, while I send her away with instructions.

TRUE: I will be acquainted with her first, by your favour.

CLER: Master True-wit, lady, a friend of ours.

TRUE: I am sorry I have not known you sooner, lady, to celebrate
this rare virtue of your silence.

[EXEUNT DAUP., EPI., AND CUTBEARD.]
CLER: Faith, an you had come sooner, you should have seen and heard
her well celebrated in sir John Daw's madrigals.

TRUE [ADVANCES TO DAW.]: Jack Daw, God save you! when saw you La-Foole?

DAW: Not since last night, master Truewit.

TRUE: That's a miracle! I thought you two had been inseparable.

DAW: He is gone to invite his guests.

TRUE: 'Odso! 'tis true!

What a false memory have I towards that man!

I am one: I met him even now, upon that he calls his delicate fine black
horse, rid into a foam, with posting from place to place, and person
to person, to give them the cue--
CLER: Lest they should forget?

TRUE: Yes: There was never poor captain took more pains at a muster
to shew men, than he, at this meal, to shew friends.

DAW: It is his quarter-feast, sir.

CLER: What! do you say so, sir John?

TRUE: Nay, Jack Daw will not be out, at the best friends he has,
to the talent of his wit: Where's his mistress, to hear and applaud
him?

is she gone?

DAW: Is mistress Epicoene gone?

CLER: Gone afore, with sir Dauphine, I warrant, to the place.

TRUE: Gone afore!

that were a manifest injury; a disgrace and a half: to refuse him
at such a festival-time as this, being a bravery, and a wit too!

CLER: Tut, he'll swallow it like cream: he's better read in Jure
civili, than to esteem any thing a disgrace, is offer'd him from a
mistress.

DAW: Nay, let her e'en go; she shall sit alone, and be dumb in her
chamber a week together, for John Daw, I warrant her. Does she refuse
me?

CLER: No, sir, do not take it so to heart; she does not refuse you,
but a little neglects you.

Good faith, Truewit, you were to blame, to put it into his head, that she
does refuse him.

TRUE: Sir, she does refuse him palpably, however you mince it. An I were
as he, I would swear to speak ne'er a word to her to-day for't.

DAW: By this light, no more I will not.

TRUE: Nor to any body else, sir.

DAW: Nay, I will not say so, gentlemen.

CLER: It had been an excellent happy condition for the company, if
you could have drawn him to it.

[ASIDE.]
DAW: I'll be very melancholY, i'faith.

CLER: As a dog, if I were as you, sir John.

TRUE: Or a snail, or a hog-louse: I would roll myself up for this day,
in troth, they should not unwind me.

DAW: By this pick-tooth, so I will.

CLER: 'Tis well done: He begins already to be angry with his teeth.

DAW: Will you go, gentlemen?

CLER: Nay, you must walk alone, if you be right melancholy, sir
John.

TRUE: Yes, sir, we'll dog you, we'll follow you afar off.

[EXIT DAW.]
CLER: Was there ever such a two yards of knighthood measured out by time,
to be sold to laughter?

TRUE: A mere talking mole, hang him! no mushroom was ever so fresh.
A fellow so utterly nothing, as he knows not what he would be.

CLER: Let's follow him: but first, let's go to Dauphine, he's
hovering about the house to hear what news.

TRUE: Content.

[EXEUNT.]

SCENE 2.3.

A ROOM IN MOROSE'S HOUSE.

ENTER MOROSE AND MUTE, FOLLOWED BY CUTBEARD WITH EPICOENE.

MOR: Welcome Cutbeard! draw near with your fair charge: and in her ear
softly entreat her to unmasthey.
[EPI. TAKES OFF HER MASK.] --So! Is the door shut?
[MUTE MAKES A LEG.] --Enough. Now, Cutbeard, with the same discipline I
use to my family, I will question you.

As I conceive, Cutbeard, this gentlewoman is she you have provided, and
brought, in hope she will fit me in the place and person of a wife?
Answer me not, but with your leg, unless it be otherwise:
[CUT.

MAKES A LEG.] --Very well done, Cutbeard. I conceive, besides, Cutbeard,
you have been pre-acquainted with her birth, education, and qualities,
or else you would not prefer her to my acceptance, in the weighty consequence
of marriage.
[CUT. MAKES A LEG.]

--This I conceive, Cutbeard. Answer me not but with your leg, unless it
be otherwise.

[CUT. BOWS AGAIN.]

--Very well done, Cutbeard.

Give aside now a little, and leave me to examine her condition, and aptitude
to my affection.

[HE GOES ABOUT HER, AND VIEWS HER.] --She is exceeding fair, and of a
special good favour; a sweet composition or harmony of limbs: her
temper of beauty has the true height of my blood.

The knave hath exceedingly well fitted me without: I will now try
her within.

Come near, fair gentlewoman:
let not my behaviour seem rude, though unto you, being rare, it may haply
appear strange.
[EPICOENE CURTSIES.]

--Nay, lady, you may speak, though Cutbeard and my man, might not;
for, of all sounds, only the sweet voice of a fair lady has the just
length of mine ears. I beseech you, say, lady; out of the first
fire of meeting eyes, they say, love is stricken: do you feel any
such motion suddenly shot into you, from any part you see in me? ha,
lady?
[EPICOENE CURTSIES.]

--Alas, lady, these answers by silent curtsies from you are too courtless
and simple.

I have ever had my breeding in court: and she that shall be my wife,
must be accomplished with courtly and audacious ornaments.

Can you speak, lady?

EPI: [softly.] Judge you, forsooth.

MOR: What say you, lady? speak out, I beseech you.

EPI: Judge you, forsooth.

MOR: On my judgment, a divine softness! But can you naturally, lady,
as I enjoin these by doctrine and industry, refer yourself to
the search of my judgment, and, not taking pleasure in your tongue,
which is a woman's chiefest pleasure, think it plausible to answer
me by silent gestures, so long as my speeches jump right with what
you conceive?

[EPI. CURTSIES.] --Excellent! divine! if it were possible she should hold
out thus!
Peace, Cutbeard, thou art made for ever, as thou hast made me, if
this felicity have lasting: but I will try her further.

Dear lady, I am courtly, I tell you, and I must have mine ears banqueted
with pleasant and witty conferences, pretty girls, scoffs, and dalliance
in her that I mean to choose for my bed-phere. The ladies in court think
it a most desperate impair to their quickness of wit, and good
carriage, if they cannot give occasion for a man to court 'em; and
when an amorous discourse is set on foot, minister as good matter
to continue it, as himself:
And do you alone so much differ from all them, that what they, with
so much circumstance, affect and toil for, to seem learn'd, to seem
judicious, to seem sharp and conceited, you can bury in yourself
with silence, and rather trust your graces to the fair conscience
of virtue, than to the world's or your own proclamation?

EPI [SOFTLY]: I should be sorry else.

MOR: What say you lady? good lady, speak out.

EPI: I should be sorry else.

MOR: That sorrow doth fill me with gladness. O Morose, thou art happy above
mankind! pray that thou mayest contain thyself. I will only put her
to it once more, and it shall be with the utmost touch and test of their
sex. But hear me, fair lady; I do also love to see her whom I shall
choose for my heifer, to be the first and principal in all fashions;
precede all the dames at court by a fortnight; have council of tailors,
lineners, lace-women, embroiderers, and sit with them sometimes
twice a day upon French intelligences; and then come forth varied
like nature, or oftener than she, and better by the help of art,
her emulous servant.

This do I affect: and how will you be able, lady, with this frugality
of speech, to give the manifold but necessary instructions, for that
bodice, these sleeves, those skirts, this cut, that stitch, this
embroidery, that lace, this wire, those knots, that ruff, those roses,
this girdle, that fanne, the t'other scarf, these gloves? Ha! what say
you, lady?

EPI [SOFTLY]: I'll leave it to you, sir.

MOR: How, lady? pray you rise a note.

EPI: I leave it to wisdom and you, sir.

MOR: Admirable creature! I will trouble you no more: I will not sin
against so sweet a simplicity. Let me now be bold to print on those
divine lips the seal of being mine.--Cutbeard, I give thee the lease
of thy house free: thank me not but with thy leg [CUTBEARD SHAKES
HIS HEAD.] --I know what thou wouldst say, she's poor, and her
friends deceased. She has brought a wealthy dowry in her silence,
Cutbeard; and in respect of her poverty, Cutbeard, I shall have her
more loving and obedient, Cutbeard. Go thy ways, and get me a
minister presently, with a soft low voice, to marry us; and pray
him he will not be impertinent, but brief as he can; away: softly,
[EXIT CUTBEARD.] --Sirrah, conduct your mistress into the dining-room,
your now mistress.
[EXIT MUTE, FOLLOWED BY EPI.] --O my felicity! how I shall be
revenged on mine insolent kinsman, and his plots to fright me from
marrying! This night I will get an heir, and thrust him out of my
blood, like a stranger; he would be knighted, forsooth, and thought
by that means to reign over me; his title must do it: No, kinsman,
I will now make you bring me the tenth lord's and the sixteenth
lady's letter, kinsman; and it shall do you no good, kinsman. Your
knighthood itself shall come on its knees, and it shall be rejected;
it shall be sued for its fees to execution, and not be redeem'd;
it shall cheat at the twelvepenny ordinary, it knighthood, for its
diet, all the term- time, and tell tales for it in the vacation to
the hostess; or it knighthood shall do worse, take sanctuary in
Cole-harbour, and fast.
It shall fright all its friends with borrowing letters; and when
one of the fourscore hath brought it knighthood ten shillings, it
knighthood shall go to the Cranes, or the Bear at the Bridge-foot,
and be drunk in fear: it shall not have money to discharge one
tavern-reckoning, to invite the old creditors to forbear it knighthood,
or the new, that should be, to trust it knighthood. It shall be the
tenth name in the bond to take up the commodity of pipkins and stone
jugs: and the part thereof shall not furnish it knighthood forth
for the attempting of a baker's widow, a brown baker's widow. It
shall give it knighthood's name, for a stallion, to all gamesome
citizens' wives, and be refused; when the master of a dancing school,
or how do you call him, the worst reveller in the town is taken:
it shall want clothes, and by reason of that, wit, to fool to
lawyers. It shall not have hope to repair itself by Constantinople,
Ireland, or Virginia; but the best and last fortune to it knighthood
shall be to make Dol Tear-Sheet, or Kate Common a lady: and so it
knighthood may eat.

[EXIT.] 
SCENE 2.4.
A LANE, NEAR MOROSE'S HOUSE.
ENTER TRUEWIT, DAUPHINE,AND CLERIMONT.
TRUE: Are you sure he is not gone by?
DAUP: No, I staid in the shop ever since.
CLER: But he may take the other end of the lane.
DAUP: No, I told him I would be here at this end: I appointed him
hither.

TRUE: What a barbarian it is to stay then!
DAUP: Yonder he comes.
CLER: And his charge left behind him, which is a very good sign,
Dauphine.

[ENTER CUTBEARD.]
DAUP: How now Cutbeard! succeeds it, or no?
CUT: Past imagination, sir, omnia secunda; you could not have pray'd
to have had it so well. Saltat senex, as it is in the proverb; he
does triumph in his felicity, admires the party! he has given me
the lease of my house too! and I am now going for a silent minister
to marry them, and away.
TRUE: 'Slight, get one of the silenced ministers, a zealous brother
would torment him purely.

CUT: Cum privilegio, sir.
DAUP: O, by no means, let's do nothing to hinder it now: when it
is done and finished, I am for you, for any device of vexation.
CUT: And that shall be within this half hour, upon my dexterity,
gentlemen. Contrive what you can in the mean time, bonis avibus.
[EXIT.] 
CLER: How the slave doth Latin it!
TRUE: It would be made a jest to posterity, sirs, this day's mirth,
if ye will.

CLER: Beshrew his heart that will not, I pronounce.
DAUP: And for my part. What is it?
TRUE: To translate all La-Foole's company, and his feast thither,
to-day, to celebrate this bride-ale.
DAUP: Ay marry; but how will't be done?
TRUE: I'll undertake the directing of all the lady-guests thither,
and then the meat must follow.
CLER: For God's sake, let's effect it: it will be an excellent
comedy of affliction, so many several noises.
DAUP: But are they not at the other place already, think you?
TRUE: I'll warrant you for the college-honours: one of their faces
has not the priming colour laid on yet, nor the other her smock
sleek'd.
CLER: O, but they'll rise earlier then ordinary, to a feast.
TRUE: Best go see, and assure ourselves.
CLER: Who knows the house?
TRUE: I will lead you: Were you never there yet?

DAUP: Not I.
CLER: Nor I.
TRUE: Where have you lived then? not know Tom Otter!
CLER: No: for God's sake, what is he?
TRUE: An excellent animal, equal with your Daw or La-Foole, if not
transcendant; and does Latin it as much as your barber: He is his
wife's subject, he calls her princess, and at such times as these
follows her up and down the house like a page, with his hat off,
partly for heat, partly for reverence. At this instant he is
marshalling of his bull, bear, and horse.
DAUP: What be those, in the name of Sphynx?
TRUE: Why, sir, he has been a great man at the Bear-garden in his
time; and from that subtle sport, has ta'en the witty denomination
of his chief carousing cups. One he calls his bull, another his
bear, another his horse. And then he has his lesser glasses, that
he calls his deer and his ape; and several degrees of them too; and
never is well, nor thinks any entertainment perfect, till these be
brought out, and set on the cupboard.
CLER: For God's love!--we should miss this, if we should not
go.
TRUE: Nay, he has a thousand things as good, that will speak him
all day. He will rail on his wife, with certain common places,
behind her back; and to her face--
DAUP: No more of him. Let's go see him, I petition you.
[EXEUNT.] 

ACT 3. SCENE 3.1.

A ROOM IN OTTER'S HOUSE.
ENTER CAPTAIN OTTER WITH HIS CUPS, AND MISTRESS OTTER.
OTT: Nay, good princess, hear me pauca verba.
MRS. OTT: By that light, I'll have you chain'd up, with your
bull-dogs, and bear-dogs, if you be not civil the sooner. I will
send you to kennel, i'faith. You were best bait me with your bull,
bear, and horse! Never a time that the courtiers or collegiates
come to the house, but you make it a Shrove-tuesday! I would have
you get your Whitsuntide velvet cap, and your staff in your hand,
to entertain them: yes, in troth, do.
OTT: Not so, princess, neither; but under correction, sweet princess,
give me leave.--These things I am known to the courtiers by: It is
reported to them for my humour, and they receive it so, and do
expect it. Tom Otter's bull, bear, and horse is known all over
England, in rerum natura.
MRS. OTT: 'Fore me, I will na-ture them over to Paris-garden, and
na-ture you thither too, if you pronounce them again. Is a bear a
fit beast, or a bull, to mix in society with great ladies?Comin' home, he'd jump somebody's front fence an' hold his
head under a faucet."

"I used to dance with Chester Johnson," Saxon said. "And I knew his
wife, Kittie Brady, long and long ago. She had next place at the table
to me in the paper-box factory. She's gone to San Francisco to her
married sister's. She's going to have a baby, too. She was awfully
pretty, and there was always a string of fellows after her."

The effect of the conviction and severe sentences was a bad one on
the union men. Instead of being disheartening, it intensified the
bitterness. Billy's repentance for having fought and the sweetness and
affection which had flashed up in the days of Saxon's nursing of him
were blotted out. At home, he scowled and brooded, while his talk took
on the tone of Bert's in the last days ere that Mohegan died. Also,
Billy stayed away from home longer hours, and was again steadily
drinking.

Saxon well-nigh abandoned hope. Almost was she steeled to the inevitable
tragedy which her morbid fancy painted in a thousand guises. Oftenest,
it was of Billy being brought home on a stretcher. Sometimes it was a
call to the telephone in the corner grocery and the curt information by
a strange voice that her husband was lying in the receiving hospital or
the morgue. And when the mysterious horse-poisoning cases occurred, and
when the residence of one of the teaming magnates was half destroyed by
dynamite, she saw Billy in prison, or wearing stripes, or mounting to
the scaffold at San Quentin while at the same time she could see the
little cottage on Pine street besieged by newspaper reporters and
photographers.

Yet her lively imagination failed altogether to anticipate the real
catastrophe. Harmon, the fireman lodger, passing through the kitchen on
his way out to work, had paused to tell Saxon about the previous day's
train-wreck in the Alviso marshes, and of how the engineer, imprisoned
under the overturned engine and unhurt, being drowned by the rising
tide, had begged to be shot. Billy came in at the end of the narrative,
and from the somber light in his heavy-lidded eyes Saxon knew he had
been drinking. He glowered at Harmon, and, without greeting to him or
Saxon, leaned his shoulder against the wall.

Harmon felt the awkwardness of the situation, and did his best to appear
oblivious.

"I was just telling your wife--" he began, but was savagely interrupted.

"I don't care what you was tellin' her. But I got something to tell you,
Mister Man. My wife's made up your bed too many times to suit me."

"Billy!" Saxon cried, her face scarlet with resentment, and hurt, and
shame.

Billy ignored her. Harmon was saying:

"I don't understand--"

"Well, I don't like your mug," Billy informed him. "You're standin' on
your foot. Get off of it. Get out. Beat it. D'ye understand that?"

"I don't know what's got into him," Saxon gasped hurriedly to the
fireman. "He's not himself. Oh, I am so ashamed, so ashamed."

Billy turned on her.

"You shut your mouth an' keep outa this."

"But, Billy," she remonstrated.

"An' get outa here. You go into the other room."

"Here, now," Harmon broke in. "This is a fine way to treat a fellow."

"I've given you too much rope as it is," was Billy's answer.

"I've paid my rent regularly, haven't I?"

"An' I oughta knock your block off for you. Don't see any reason I
shouldn't, for that matter."

"If you do anything like that, Billy--" Saxon began.

"You here still? Well, if you won't go into the other room, I'll see
that you do."

His hand clutched her arm. For one instant she resisted his strength;
and in that instant, the flesh crushed under his fingers, she realized
the fullness of his strength.

In the front room she could only lie back in the Morris chair sobbing,
and listen to what occurred in the kitchen. "I'll stay to the end of the
week," the fireman was saying. "I've paid in advance."

"Don't make no mistake," came Billy's voice, so slow that it was almost
a drawl, yet quivering with rage. "You can't get out too quick if you
wanta stay healthy--you an' your traps with you. I'm likely to start
something any moment."

"Oh, I know you're a slugger--" the fireman's voice began.

Then came the unmistakable impact of a blow; the crash of glass; a
scuffle on the back porch; and, finally, the heavy bumps of a body down
the steps. She heard Billy reenter the kitchen, move about, and knew
he was sweeping up the broken glass of the kitchen door. Then he washed
himself at the sink, whistling while he dried his face and hands, and
walked into the front room. She did not look at him. She was too sick
and sad. He paused irresolutely, seeming to make up his mind.

"I'm goin' up town," he stated. "They's a meeting of the union. If I
don't come back it'll be because that geezer's sworn out a warrant."

He opened the front door and paused. She knew he was looking at her.
Then the door closed and she heard him go down the steps.

Saxon was stunned. She did not think. She did not know what to think.
The whole thing was incomprehensible, incredible. She lay back in the
chair, her eyes closed, her mind almost a blank, crushed by a leaden
feeling that the end had come to everything.

The voices of children playing in the street aroused her. Night had
fallen. She groped her way to a lamp and lighted it. In the kitchen she
stared, lips trembling, at the pitiful, half prepared meal. The fire had
gone out. The water had boiled away from the potatoes. When she lifted
the lid, a burnt smell arose. Methodically she scraped and cleaned the
pot, put things in order, and peeled and sliced the potatoes for next
day's frying. And just as methodically she went to bed. Her lack of
nervousness, her placidity, was abnormal, so abnormal that she closed
her eyes and was almost immediately asleep. Nor did she awaken till the
sunshine was streaming into the room.

It was the first night she and Billy had slept apart. She was amazed
that she had not lain awake worrying about him. She lay with eyes wide
open, scarcely thinking, until pain in her arm attracted her attention.
It was where Billy had gripped her. On examination she found the bruised
flesh fearfully black and blue. She was astonished, not by the spiritual
fact that such bruise had been administered by the one she loved most in
the world, but by the sheer physical fact that an instant's pressure had
inflicted so much damage. The strength of a man was a terrible thing.
Quite impersonally, she found herself wondering if Charley Long were as
strong as Billy.

It was not until she dressed and built the fire that she began to
think about more immediate things. Billy had not returned. Then he was
arrested. What was she to do?--leave him in jail, go away, and start
life afresh? Of course it was impossible to go on living with a man
who had behaved as he had. But then, came another thought, WAS it
impossible? After all, he was her husband. FOR BETTER OR WORSE--the
phrase reiterated itself, a monotonous accompaniment to her thoughts,
at the back of her consciousness. To leave him was to surrender. She
carried the matter before the tribunal of her mother's memory. No; Daisy
would never have surrendered. Daisy was a fighter. Then she, Saxon, must
fight. Besides--and she acknowledged it--readily, though in a cold, dead
way--besides, Billy was better than most husbands. Better than any other
husband she had heard of, she concluded, as she remembered many of his
earlier nicenesses and finenesses, and especially his eternal chant:
NOTHING IS TOO GOOD FOR US. THE ROBERTSES AIN'T ON THE CHEAP.

At eleven o'clock she had a caller. It was Bud Strothers, Billy's mate
on strike duty. Billy, he told her, had refused bail, refused a lawyer,
had asked to be tried by the Court, had pleaded guilty, and had received
a sentence of sixty dollars or thirty days. Also, he had refused to let
the boys pay his fine.

"He's clean looney," Strothers summed up. "Won't listen to reason. Says
he'll serve the time out. He's been tankin' up too regular, I guess.
His wheels are buzzin'. Here, he give me this note for you. Any time
you want anything send for me. The boys'll all stand by Bill's wife. You
belong to us, you know. How are you off for money?"

Proudly she disclaimed any need for money, and not until her visitor
departed did she read Billy's note:

Dear Saxon--Bud Strothers is going to give you this. Don't worry about
me. I am going to take my medicine. I deserve it--you know that. I guess
I am gone bughouse. Just the same, I am sorry for what I done. Don't
come to see me. I don't want you to. If you need money, the union will
give you some. The business agent is all right. I will be out in a
month. Now, Saxon, you know I love you, and just say to yourself that
you forgive me this time, and you won't never have to do it again.

                                  Billy.

Bud Strothers was followed by Maggie Donahue, and Mrs. Olsen, who paid
neighborly calls of cheer and were tactful in their offers of help and
in studiously avoiding more reference than was necessary to Billy's
predicament.

In the afternoon James Harmon arrived. He limped slightly, and Saxon
divined that he was doing his best to minimize that evidence of hurt.
She tried to apologize to him, but he would not listen.

"I don't blame you, Mrs. Roberts," he said. "I know it wasn't your
doing. But your husband wasn't just himself, I guess. He was fightin'
mad on general principles, and it was just my luck to get in the way,
that was all."

"But just the same--"

The fireman shook his head.

"I know all about it. I used to punish the drink myself, and I done some
funny things in them days. And I'm sorry I swore that warrant out and
testified. But I was hot in the collar. I'm cooled down now, an' I'm
sorry I done it."

"You're awfully good and kind," she said, and then began hesitantly on
what was bothering her. "You... you can't stay now, with him... away,
you know."

"Yes; that wouldn't do, would it? I'll tell you: I'll pack up right now,
and skin out, and then, before six o'clock, I'll send a wagon for my
things. Here's the key to the kitchen door."

Much as he demurred, she compelled him to receive back the unexpired
portion of his rent. He shook her hand heartily at leaving, and tried to
get her to promise to call upon him for a loan any time she might be in
need.

"It's all right," he assured her. "I'm married, and got two boys. One of
them's got his lungs touched, and she's with 'em down in Arizona campin'
out. The railroad helped with passes."

And as he went down the steps she wondered that so kind a man should be
in so madly cruel a world.

The Donahue boy threw in a spare evening paper, and Saxon found half a
column devoted to Billy. It was not nice. The fact that he had stood
up in the police court with his eyes blacked from some other fray
was noted. He was described as a bully, a hoodlum, a rough-neck, a
professional slugger whose presence in the ranks was a disgrace to
organized labor. The assault he had pleaded guilty of was atrocious and
unprovoked, and if he were a fair sample of a striking teamster, the
only wise thing for Oakland to do was to break up the union and drive
every member from the city. And, finally, the paper complained at the
mildness of the sentence. It should have been six months at least. The
judge was quoted as expressing regret that he had been unable to impose
a six months' sentence, this inability being due to the condition of
the jails, already crowded beyond capacity by the many eases of assault
committed in the course of the various strikes.

That night, in bed, Saxon experienced her first loneliness. Her brain
seemed in a whirl, and her sleep was broken by vain gropings for the
form of Billy she imagined at her side. At last, she lighted the lamp
and lay staring at the ceiling, wide-eyed, conning over and over the
details of the disaster that had overwhelmed her. She could forgive, and
she could not forgive. The blow to her love-life had been too savage,
too brutal. Her pride was too lacerated to permit her wholly to return
in memory to the other Billy whom she loved. Wine in, wit out, she
repeated to herself; but the phrase could not absolve the man who had
slept by her side, and to whom she had consecrated herself. She wept
in the loneliness of the all-too-spacious bed, strove to forget Billy's
incomprehensible cruelty, even pillowed her cheek with numb fondness
against the bruise of her arm; but still resentment burned within her,
a steady flame of protest against Billy and all that Billy had done. Her
throat was parched, a dull ache never ceased in her breast, and she was
oppressed by a feeling of goneness. WHY, WHY?--And from the puzzle of
the world came no solution.

In the morning she received a visit from Sarah--the second in all the
period of her marriage; and she could easily guess her sister-in-law's
ghoulish errand. No exertion was required for the assertion of all of
Saxon's pride. She refused to be in the slightest on the defensive.
There was nothing to defend, nothing to explain. Everything was all
right, and it was nobody's business anyway. This attitude but served to
vex Sarah.

"I warned you, and you can't say I didn't," her diatribe ran. "I always
knew he was no good, a jailbird, a hoodlum, a slugger. My heart sunk
into my boots when I heard you was runnin' with a prizefighter. I
told you so at the time. But no; you wouldn't listen, you with your
highfalutin' notions an' more pairs of shoes than any decent woman
should have. You knew better'n me. An' I said then, to Tom, I said,
'It's all up with Saxon now.' Them was my very words. Them that touches
pitch is defiled. If you'd only a-married Charley Long! Then the family
wouldn't a-ben disgraced. An' this is only the beginnin', mark me, only
the beginnin'. Where it'll end, God knows. He'll kill somebody yet, that
plug-ugly of yourn, an' be hanged for it. You wait an' see, that's all,
an' then you'll remember my words. As you make your bed, so you will lay
in it"

"Best bed I ever had," Saxon commented.

"So you can say, so you can say," Sarah snorted.

"I wouldn't trade it for a queen's bed," Saxon added.

"A jailbird's bed," Sarah rejoined witheringly.

"Oh, it's the style," Saxon retorted airily. "Everybody's getting
a taste of jail. Wasn't Tom arrested at some street meeting of the
socialists? Everybody goes to jail these days."

The barb had struck home.

"But Tom was acquitted," Sarah hastened to proclaim.

"Just the same he lay in jail all night without bail."

This was unanswerable, and Sarah executed her favorite tactic of attack
in flank.

"A nice come-down for you, I must say, that was raised straight an'
right, a-cuttin' up didoes with a lodger."

"Who says so?" Saxon blazed with an indignation quickly mastered.

"Oh, a blind man can read between the lines. A lodger, a young married
woman with no self respect, an' a prizefighter for a husband--what else
would they fight about?"

"Just like any family quarrel, wasn't it?" Saxon smiled placidly.

Sarah was shocked into momentary speechlessness.

"And I want you to understand it," Saxon continued. "It makes a woman
proud to have men fight over her. I am proud. Do you hear? I am proud.
I want you to tell them so. I want you to tell all your neighbors. Tell
everybody. I am no cow. Men like me. Men fight for me. Men go to jail
for me. What is a woman in the world for, if it isn't to have men like
her? Now, go, Sarah; go at once, and tell everybody what you've read
between the lines. Tell them Billy is a jailbird and that I am a bad
woman whom all men desire. Shout it out, and good luck to you. And get
out of my house. And never put your feet in it again. You are too decent
a woman to come here. You might lose your reputation. And think of your
children. Now get out. Go."

Not until Sarah had taken an amazed and horrified departure did Saxon
fling herself on the bed in a convulsion of tears. She had been ashamed,
before, merely of Billy's inhospitality, and surliness, and unfairness.
But she could see, now, the light in which others looked on the affair.
It had not entered Saxon's head. She was confident that it had not
entered Billy's. She knew his attitude from the first. Always he had
opposed taking a lodger because of his proud faith that his wife should
not work. Only hard times had compelled his consent, and, now that she
looked back, almost had she inveigled him into consenting.

But all this did not alter the viewpoint the neighborhood must hold,
that every one who had ever known her must hold. And for this, too,
Billy was responsible. It was more terrible than all the other things
he had been guilty of put together. She could never look any one in the
face again. Maggie Donahue and Mrs. Olsen had been very kind, but of
what must they have been thinking all the time they talked with her? And
what must they have said to each other? What was everybody saying?--over
front gates and back fences,--the men standing on the corners or talking
in saloons?

Later, exhausted by her grief, when the tears no longer fell, she grew
more impersonal, and dwelt on the disasters that had befallen so many
women since the strike troubles began--Otto Frank's wife, Henderson's
widow, pretty Kittie Brady, Mary, all the womenfolk of the other workmen
who were now wearing the stripes in San Quentin. Her world was crashing
about her ears. No one was exempt. Not only had she not escaped, but
hers was the worst disgrace of all. Desperately she tried to hug the
delusion that she was asleep, that it was all a nightmare, and that soon
the alarm would go off and she would get up and cook Billy's breakfast
so that he could go to work.

She did not leave the bed that day. Nor did she sleep. Her brain whirled
on and on, now dwelling at insistent length upon her misfortunes, now
pursuing the most fantastic ramifications of what she considered her
disgrace, and, again, going back to her childhood and wandering through
endless trivial detail. She worked at all the tasks she had ever done,
performing, in fancy, the myriads of mechanical movements peculiar to
each occupation--shaping and pasting in the paper box factory, ironing
in the laundry, weaving in the jute mill, peeling fruit in the cannery
and countless boxes of scalded tomatoes. She attended all her dances and
all her picnics over again; went through her school days, recalling the
face and name and seat of every schoolmate; endured the gray bleakness
of the years in the orphan asylum; revisioned every memory of her
mother, every tale; and relived all her life with Billy. But ever--and
here the torment lay--she was drawn back from these far-wanderings
to her present trouble, with its parch in the throat, its ache in the
breast, and its gnawing, vacant goneness.


CHAPTER XV

All that night Saxon lay, unsleeping, without taking off her clothes,
and when she arose in the morning and washed her face and dressed her
hair she was aware of a strange numbness, of a feeling of constriction
about her head as if it were bound by a heavy band of iron. It seemed
like a dull pressure upon her brain. It was the beginning of an illness
that she did not know as illness. All she knew was that she felt queer.
It was not fever. It was not cold. Her bodily health was as it should
be, and, when she thought about it, she put her condition down to
nerves--nerves, according to her ideas and the ideas of her class, being
unconnected with disease.

She had a strange feeling of loss of self, of being a stranger to
herself, and the world in which she moved seemed a vague and shrouded
world. It lacked sharpness of definition. Its customary vividness was
gone. She had lapses of memory, and was continually finding herself
doing unplanned things. Thus, to her astonishment, she came to in the
back yard hanging up the week's wash. She had no recollection of having
done it, yet it had been done precisely as it should have been done.
She had boiled the sheets and pillow-slips and the table linen. Billy's
woolens had been washed in warm water only, with the home-made soap, the
recipe of which Mercedes had given her. On investigation, she found she
had eaten a mutton chop for breakfast. This meant that she had been to
the butcher shop, yet she had no memory of having gone. Curiously, she
went into the bedroom. The bed was made up and everything in order.

At twilight she came upon herself in the front room, seated by the
window, crying in an ecstasy of joy. At first she did not know what this
joy was; then it came to her that it was because she had lost her baby.
"A blessing, a blessing," she was chanting aloud, wringing her hands,
but with joy, she knew it was with joy that she wrung her hands.

The days came and went. She had little notion of time. Sometimes,
centuries agone, it seemed to her it was since Billy had gone to jail.
At other times it was no more than the night before. But through it
all two ideas persisted: she must not go to see Billy in jail; it was a
blessing she had lost her baby.

Once, Bud Strothers came to see her. She sat in the front room and
talked with him, noting with fascination that there were fringes to
the heels of his trousers. Another day, the business agent of the union
called. She told him, as she had told Bud Strothers, that everything was
all right, that she needed nothing, that she could get along comfortably
until Billy came out.

A fear began to haunt her. WHEN HE CAME OUT. No; it must not be. There
must not be another baby. It might LIVE. No, no, a thousand times no. It
must not be. She would run away first. She would never see Billy again.
Anything but that. Anything but that.

This fear persisted. In her nightmare-ridden sleep it became an
accomplished fact, so that she would awake, trembling, in a cold sweat,
crying out. Her sleep had become wretched. Sometimes she was convinced
that she did not sleep at all, and she knew that she had insomnia, and
remembered that it was of insomnia her mother had died.

She came to herself one day, sitting in Doctor Hentley's office. He was
looking at her in a puzzled way.

"Got plenty to eat?" he was asking.

She nodded.

"Any serious trouble?"

She shook her head.

"Everything's all right, doctor... except..."

"Yes, yes," he encouraged.

And then she knew why she had come. Simply, explicitly, she told him. He
shook his head slowly.

"It can't be done, little woman," he said

"Oh, but it can!" she cried. "I know it can."

"I don't mean that," he answered. "I mean I can't tell you. I dare not.
It is against the law. There is a doctor in Leavenworth prison right now
for that."

In vain she pleaded with him. He instanced his own wife and children
whose existence forbade his imperiling.

"Besides, there is no likelihood now," he told her.

"But there will be, there is sure to be," she urged.

But he could only shake his head sadly.

"Why do you want to know?" he questioned finally.

Saxon poured her heart out to him. She told of her first year of
happiness with Billy, of the hard times caused by the labor troubles, of
the change in Billy so that there was no love-life left, of her own deep
horror. Not if it died, she concluded. She could go through that again.
But if it should live. Billy would soon be out of jail, and then the
danger would begin. It was only a few words. She would never tell any
one. Wild horses could not drag it out of her.

But Doctor Hentley continued to shake his head. "I can't tell you,
little woman. It's a shame, but I can't take the risk. My hands are
tied. Our laws are all wrong. I have to consider those who are dear to
me."

It was when she got up to go that he faltered. "Come here," he said.
"Sit closer."

He prepared to whisper in her ear, then, with a sudden excess of
caution, crossed the room swiftly, opened the door, and looked out.
When he sat down again he drew his chair so close to hers that the arms
touched, and when he whispered his beard tickled her ear.

"No, no," he shut her off when she tried to voice her gratitude. "I have
told you nothing. You were here to consult me about your general health.
You are run down, out of condition--"

As he talked he moved her toward the door. When he opened it, a patient
for the dentist in the adjoining office was standing in the hall. Doctor
Hentley lifted his voice.

"What you need is that tonic I prescribed. Remember that. And don't
pamper your appetite when it comes back. Eat strong, nourishing food,
and beefsteak, plenty of beefsteak. And don't cook it to a cinder. Good
day."

At times the silent cottage became unendurable, and Saxon would throw
a shawl about her head and walk out the Oakland Mole, or cross the
railroad yards and the marshes to Sandy Beach where Billy had said he
used to swim. Also, by going out the Transit slip, by climbing down the
piles on a precarious ladder of iron spikes, and by crossing a boom of
logs, she won access to the Rock Wall that extended far out into the bay
and that served as a barrier between the mudflats and the tide-scoured
channel of Oakland Estuary. Here the fresh sea breezes blew and Oakland
sank down to a smudge of smoke behind her, while across the bay she
could see the smudge that represented San Francisco. Ocean steamships
passed up and down the estuary, and lofty-masted ships, towed by
red-stacked tugs.

She gazed at the sailors on the ships, wondered on what far voyages and
to what far lands they went, wondered what freedoms were theirs. Or
were they girt in by as remorseless and cruel a world as the dwellers
in Oakland were? Were they as unfair, as unjust, as brutal, in their
dealings with their fellows as were the city dwellers? It did not
seem so, and sometimes she wished herself on board, out-bound, going
anywhere, she cared not where, so long as it was away from the world to
which she had given her best and which had trampled her in return.

She did not know always when she left the house, nor where her feet took
her. Once, she came to herself in a strange part of Oakland. The street
was wide and lined with rows of shade trees. Velvet lawns, broken only
by cement sidewalks, ran down to the gutters. The houses stood apart and
were large. In her vocabulary they were mansions. What had shocked her
to consciousness of herself was a young man in the driver's seat of a
touring car standing at the curb. He was looking at her curiously and
she recognized him as Roy Blanchard, whom, in front of the Forum, Billy
had threatened to whip. Beside the car, bareheaded, stood another young
man. He, too, she remembered. He it was, at the Sunday picnic where she
first met Billy, who had thrust his cane between the legs of the flying
foot-racer and precipitated the free-for-all fight. Like Blanchard, he
was looking at her curiously, and she became aware that she had been
talking to herself. The babble of her lips still beat in her ears. She
blushed, a rising tide of shame heating her face, and quickened her
pace. Blanchard sprang out of the car and came to her with lifted hat.
"Is anything the matter?" he asked.

She shook her head, and, though she had stopped, she evinced her desire
to go on.

"I know you," he said, studying her face. "You were with the striker who
promised me a licking."

"He is my husband," she said.

"Oh! Good for him." He regarded her pleasantly and frankly. "But about
yourself? Isn't there anything I can do for you? Something IS the
matter."

"No, I'm all right," she answered. "I have been sick," she lied; for she
never dreamed of connecting her queerness with sickness.

"You look tired," he pressed her. "I can take you in the machine and run
you anywhere you want. It won't be any trouble. I've plenty of time."

Saxon shook her head.

"If... if you would tell me where I can catch the Eighth street cars. I
don't often come to this part of town."

He told her where to find an electric car and what transfers to make,
and she was surprised at the distance she had wandered.

"Thank you," she said. "And good bye."

"Sure I can't do anything now?"

"Sure."

"Well, good bye," he smiled good humoredly. "And tell that husband of
yours to keep in good condition. I'm likely to make him need it all when
he tangles up with me."

"Oh, but you can't fight with him," she warned. "You mustn't. You
haven't got a show."

"Good for you," he admired. "That's the way for a woman to stand up for
her man. Now the average woman would be so afraid he was going to get
licked--"

"But I'm not afraid... for him. It's for you. He's a terrible fighter.
You wouldn't have any chance. It would be like... like..."

"Like taking candy from a baby?" Blanchard finished for her.

"Yes," she nodded. "That's just what he would call it. And whenever he
tells you you are standing on your foot watch out for him. Now I must
go. Good bye, and thank you again."

She went on down the sidewalk, his cheery good bye ringing in her ears.
He was kind--she admitted it honestly; yet he was one of the clever
ones, one of the masters, who, according to Billy, were responsible
for all the cruelty to labor, for the hardships of the women, for the
punishment of the labor men who were wearing stripes in San Quentin or
were in the death cells awaiting the scaffold. Yet he was kind, sweet
natured, clean, good. She could read his character in his face. But how
could this be, if he were responsible for so much evil? She shook her
head wearily. There was no explanation, no understanding of this world
which destroyed little babes and bruised women's breasts.

As for her having strayed into that neighborhood of fine residences,
she was unsurprised. It was in line with her queerness. She did so many
things without knowing that she did them. But she must be careful. It
was better to wander on the marshes and the Rock Wall.

Especially she liked the Rock Wall. There was a freedom about it, a wide
spaciousness that she found herself instinctively trying to breathe,
holding her arms out to embrace and make part of herself. It was a
more natural world, a more rational world. She could understand
it--understand the green crabs with white-bleached claws that scuttled
before her and which she could see pasturing on green-weeded rocks
when the tide was low. Here, hopelessly man-made as the great wall was,
nothing seemed artificial. There were no men here, no laws nor conflicts
of men. The tide flowed and ebbed; the sun rose and set; regularly each
afternoon the brave west wind came romping in through the Golden Gate,
darkening the water, cresting tiny wavelets, making the sailboats fly.
Everything ran with frictionless order. Everything was free. Firewood
lay about for the taking. No man sold it by the sack. Small boys fished
with poles from the rocks, with no one to drive them away for trespass,
catching fish as Billy had caught fish, as Cal Hutchins had caught fish.
Billy had told her of the great perch Cal Hutchins caught on the day of
the eclipse, when he had little dreamed the heart of his manhood would
be spent in convict's garb.

And here was food, food that was free. She watched the small boys on
a day when she had eaten nothing, and emulated them, gathering mussels
from the rocks at low water, cooking them by placing them among the
coals of a fire she built on top of the wall. Another boy is fired with
the mystery of form. He will draw the cat and dog; his chalk and
charcoal are on all our elbows; he carves a ram's head on his bat, an
eagle on a walking-stick, perches a cock on top of the barn, puts
an eye and a nose to every triangle of the geometer, and paints
faces on the wheels of his mechanical brother.

In all these boys there is something more than ability; there is
propensity, an attraction irresistible. Their minds run, we say,
in that direction, and they creep or lie still, if turned in another.
The young shepherd will toss eggs, spin platters, and balance knives,
year after year, in solitude, with a patient energy and endurance
able to command any fortune.

What philter is in these faculties?

The boy who will be great is always discontented with his work, ready
to rub out and begin again. He follows a bee, and never quite touches
that which drew him on. Plainly, the mere ability to do is a dry straw,
but through it our seeker tastes an intoxicating, seductive liquor,
from which he cannot take away his lips.

It is the liquor of our life.

In measure, or form, or tone, he applies himself to the very breasts
of Nature, and draws through these exteriors a motherly milk which
was her blood and hastens to be his own.

If the young cub holds fast to the teat, be sure the stream flows and his
veins swell.

Matter is the dry rind of this succulent, nutritious universe:
prick it on any side, and you draw the same juice.

Varieties of endowment are only so many pitchers dipped in one stream.
Poet, painter, musician, mathematician, the gift is an accident of
organization, the result is admission to that by which all things
are, and by partaking which we become what we must be.

Of this experience there can be no adequate report. It is as though one
should attempt to go up in a balloon above the atmosphere and bring
down the ether in his hands.

There is a spring on every door in Nature to close it behind the returning
footsteps of her lover, so that he can lead no man freely into the
chamber where she gave him love; it is only by the confidence, fervency,
and reverence of the initiate that we learn in what presence he has been.
Genius is great, but no product of genius is more than a shadow which
points to this sun behind the sun as its substance, and the power of our
inspired men has been merely manifested, not rightly employed. Genius
has availed only to authenticate itself as the normal activity of man,
not yet to do the work of the world.

Sense is a tangle of contradiction. The boy throws wood on water and it
floats; then he throws in his new knife and it sinks. How was he to
know that the same force will lift a stick and swallow a knife?

He throws a feather after his knife, and away it swims on the wind.
That is another brook, then, in which the feather is a stick and the
stick a stone. Not only are results of a single law opposed, but the
laws pull one this way, one that, as gravitation contends with currents
of water and air.
If we could be shut in sense and surface, Nature would seem a game of
cross-purposes, every creature devouring another.

The beast eats plant and beast; he dies, and the plant eats him again;
fire, water, and frost, in their old quarrel, destroy whatever they
build; the night eats the day, summer the snow, and winter the
green. Change is a revolving wheel, in which so many spokes rise,
so many fall, a motion returning into itself. Nature is a circle, but
man a spiral. No wonder he is dissatisfied, with his longing to get on.
Eating and hunger, labor and rest, gathering and spending, there is
no gain. Life is consumed in getting a living. After laborious years
our money is ready in bank, but the man who was to enjoy it is gone
from enjoyment, shrivelled with care, every appetite dried up. So
learning devastates the scholar, is another plague of wealth, and
our goodness turns out to be a hasty mistake.

Is order disorder, then? Are we fools of fate? Is there only power enough
to prop up this rickety old system, to keep it running and hold
our noses to the grindstone? No man believes it: the madness of Time has
method only half concealed.

See what eagerness is in the eyes of men, curious, hopeful, dimly
aware of beneficence under all these knocks and denials. There are
whispers of a great destiny for man,--that he is dear to the Cause.
We suspect integrity in Nature. Can this canebrake, in which we are
tangled with care, fear, and sin, be after all single and sincere, a
piece of intelligent kindness? Genius is the opening of this suspicion
to certainty. We are like children who recognize the love which gives
them sugar-plums, but not that which shuts the bag and forbids. Insight
goes deep enough to prize all severity and detect the good of evil.

Trade seems contemptible to Wilhelm Meister, but, in its larger aspect,
sublime to Werner, who sees it as an exploration and possession of
Nature with friendly interchange between man and man. Trade is democracy.
Authority is hateful to democrats; but Carlyle can justify loyalty,
and show how obedience to the hero may be fidelity to myself.
Every experience needs its interpreter, one who can show its
derivation from an absolute centre.

The mob of the French Revolution is a crowd of devils till their
poet arrives and restores these maniacs to manhood.
They are misguided brothers, doing what we should do in their place.
Genius in every situation takes hold on reality, a tap-root going
down to the source. Equilibrium appears in a staggering as well as a
standing figure, and is perfectly restored in every fall.

The landscape seen in detail is broken and ragged,--here a raw
sand-bank, there a crooked butternut-tree, yonder a stiff black cedar:
but look with a larger eye; the straight is complement to the crooked
tree, color balances color, form corrects form, and the entire effect
of every scene is completeness. The artist restores this harmony broken
by our microscopic view. Music is a shattering and suspension of
chords till we ache for their resolution; and the music of life
is desire, a diminished seventh that melts the past and ruins the
present to prepare a future in another key.

Genius sees that many an exception is fruit of some larger law, is
not imperfection, but uncomprehended perfection. Is there, then, no
imperfection? We are haunted by such a thought. We see first a mixed
beauty in faces, partly life and partly organization; the body is
never symmetrical, deformity is the rule. But beauty will not be measured
by form; the body cannot long occupy good eyes; we begin to look through
that, and encounter some courage, generosity, or tenderness, a
dawning or dominant light in every countenance. This is our morning,
and the physical form only a low shore over which it breaks. Beauty is
the rule, exceptions melt away. There is no face in which Raphael
cannot see more than I see in any face; the dullest landscape is to
Turner a fairer vision than I can find in the world; Byron in his
blackguards shows a kind of magnanimity which refreshes the victims of
respectability and routine. The individuality of men is deformity, a
departure from the human type; yet this fault makes each necessary to
each, founds society, love, and friendship. So wherever a break appears
in the plan, we anticipate a larger purpose, and sound down through the
water, certain to find under that also a continuation of land. Genius
first named our system a universe to mark its consistency, and
goes on reconciling, showing how creatures and men are made of one
stuff and that not so bad.

Let the thing be what it may, press on it a little with the mind, and order
begins to ooze. There is nothing on which we cannot feed with good
enough teeth and digestion, for the elements of meat are given also
in brick and bark. Natural objects are explored to their roots in man,
and through him in the Cause: each is what it is in kindness to him, has
its soul in his breast, grows out of him as truly as his hair, and
the out-world is only a larger body shaped by his needs.

Each thing is a passive man, and personification does no more than
justice to the joint-stool and the fence or whatever creature talks
and suffers in verse.

What is the meaning of my day and relations? I suspect an advantage
designed for me, but not yet extracted, in marriage and the family-life,
in books, in politics, in business, in the garden, in music. How much
of each, as I know them, is chaff? how much is life coming in
from the deep by these low doors? What is society? An eating and drinking
together? a bit of gossip? a volley of jokes? Do men meet in these
exercises, or in hope and humanity? We are all superior to amusement.
The cowardly host will entertain with fiddlers and cream; then every
guest leaves his high desire with his hat, leaves himself behind, and
descends to fiddlers and cream. But men rise to associate; in sinking
they separate; and the good host must call us up, not drag us down
to his feast.

Goethe knows how to spread the table with portfolios, architecture,
music, drawing, tableaux; but a great love, with its inevitable thought,
makes even these solvents superfluous. Goethe studies the cemetery, the
chapel, the school, the gallery, the burial-service, the estate,--whatever
is nearest. He finds astonishing values in labor, trade, production,
art, science, war. In his boyhood he built an altar with his playthings
and burned incense to Deity on a pile of shells and stones. That act of
worship foreshadowed his whole career; he took every creature and
thing from God's hand with reverent expectation, and never rested
till he had opened to some intent of the Maker therein.

Things, therefore, in his view are no longer empty and hollow like
old cast-off shoes, but pieces of sublime design.

A beetle is sustained by earth, air, fire, and water, needs the sun
and the sea, winter and summer, earth's orbit and parallax, needs
whatever has been made, to set him on his legs.

He carries the world in little, and is a creeping black body of the
best.

Much more man is microcosmic and macrocosmic.

Natural and supernatural meet concealedly in the out-world, but
openly in him, and his early desires grow into a future surpassing
all desire.

The poet sees his destiny in our wishes,--sees right and wrong,
kindness and greediness, deepening into incalculable grandeurs of
heaven and hell.

He sees the man never yet arrived, but now arriving, to inhabit
each breast.

"Far off his coming" shines.

We have many little gleams of generosity; we have conviction, and
can strike for the right.

Nature is a fixed quantity, a solid; but life is reinforced by life.

Truth begets truth, love kindles love, every end is a new beginning.

Therefore the perception of genius is prophetic,--an anticipation of
manhood for this boy, who is the King's son, child of Eternity, and only
changeling of Time. Wherever any magnanimity is revealed, I lay claim
to it. The courage of heroes, the purity of angels, the generosity of
God, is no more than I need. Only show virtue unmixed at the heart
of this system, and you open my destiny in that. If there be but the least
spark of pure benignity, it is a fire will spread through all and fill
the breast; for Good makes good, and what it is I must become. Man is
heir not to any possession or commodity, though it were a homestead in
all heavens, but to the moral power which we ache to exercise.

To-day I am a poor starveling of Nature, sucking many a dry straw,
but so sure as God I shall stream like the sun. The meanest creature
is a promise of such power, for in each is some radiation as well as
suction. Man grows, indeed, faster than he can be filled, and so is
forever empty; but if power is never a _plenum_, it is never drawn dry,
and at least the mantling foam of it fills the cup. Our expectation
is that bead on the draught of being, and boils over the brim.

Imagination is the spiritual sight, working upward from the fact, downward
from the law. In low experience it divines the tendency of order, and
descends on the other arc of this rainbow to construct the world,
and the man that must be. Imagination is the projection of each
beyond himself. A man shall not lift his meat to his lips without
prophecy and a consulting of this oracle: he shall first extend him to
think the savor and satisfaction of the meat. Shut into the horizon
and the moment, we have this only organ of communication with all
that is beyond; yet having here in rudiments and beginnings all that
is beyond, we laugh at the old limits, and explore the universe
through every dimension, through spaces beyond Space and times
beyond Time.

If this old ball on which we are carried be no apple of Sodom, but sound
and sweet to the core, insight must be confidence and satisfaction. In
the beginning of thought we enjoy mere glimpses and guesses, our hopes
are rather wishes than hopes; we mount into flame when they come, we sink
into ashes when they burn out and desert us.

The first glimmerings only beget a noble discontent. Children are tired
of matter before they know where to seek their own power; they
seem to be cheated of themselves, their worthiness is unrecognized
and unfed. Companions, tasks, prospects are insufficient, they are bored
and isolated, they sigh and mope; yet they are proud of this lukewarm
longing, which does not quite avail, and keep diaries to record with
protest the dulness of every day.

Sentimentality is initial genius. Its complaint seems to contradict the
cheerfulness of wisdom, yet it enjoys complaining; though life be not
worth having on these conditions, it bottles every tear.

A weak sadness fills great space in literature, stocks the circulating
library, and counts its Werthers by the thousand in every age.

Now we expect this malady, as we look for mumps and measles in the growing
child. It is feminine,--unwilling to be weak, yet not able to stand
and go. The strong quickly leave it behind.

In his first novel Goethe burned out for himself this girlish
green-sickness, and by a more vigorous demand began to take what
he wanted from the world.

To the young, life seems splendid but inaccessible. Its remoteness
is the theme of every complaint; but when these windy wishes
grow stern, inexorable, when a man will no longer beg, but gets
on his feet to try a tussle with the world, he throws resolute arms
around the Greatest, and finds in his bosom all that was so vast
and so far.

Then we open paths, renew our society, enlarge our work, make elbow-room
and head-room enough in the world. Criticism is the shadow of the
mind.

Insight is not sadness, but invigoration,--is no sob or spasm, but
clearness in the eye and calmness in the breast.

We misjudge it from partial examples: the light of day is confidence,
yet sudden bursts of light distress and blind.

The poet is rapt, and follows thought; he leaves his meat, and by
some transubstantiation feeds on the wind; he no longer sees the
pillars of Hercules on a sixpence; he is mad for the hour, if a
majority shall say what is madness.

Meanwhile his field is unploughed; and if he falls from this ecstasy,
look to see an harassed, embittered man.

The birds sing as they pick up the corn, but wisdom is not so quickly
convertible into meal, and if he cannot feed always on it, let him
never seek the Muse.

Our poor half-genius vibrates miserably between truth and the dinner-pot,
comes back from his apocalypse, and cries for admiration, gold-lace,
hair-powder, and wine. That is no apocalypse from which a man returns
to whine and beg.

Burns complains of Scotland and poverty, Byron of England and respectability,
and they are both so far paupers unfed at home. Wordsworth finds London
a wilderness, and goes more than content to good company in lonely
Cumberland, to eat a crust and drink water with the gods. Socrates is
barefooted. He has one want so pressing that he can have no other want,
and has set his lips to a cup which hides his bare feet from his
eyes: with a single garment for winter and summer, he draws the
universe around him a garment for the mind.

If the first flashes of perception dazzle, they are rays of daylight
to one emerging from the cave of sense. The eye becomes wonted to
truth, and that is now the least of his convictions which yesterday
struck Paul from his horse, and rebuked him as fire from the sky. Truth
is breath, and only for the first uncertain moment of life we use it
to cry and complain. Inspiration is morning, not a flash to deepen the
dark.

Popular literature is some description of a state which men think
they might enjoy: it is no record of joy. But the fool's paradise would
be dreary even for the fool; he is his own paradise, and will be.

Our early fancy is no transcript of the divine method, and is sternly
rejected by all who suspect a perfection hidden in the day. A few works
are great which celebrate the charm of actual effort, and the furtherance
of Nature for the brave. Homer, Shakspeare, Goethe, need never exaggerate
or leave the earth behind: in their experience it carries well the
sky. Every vital thought is some pleasure in running, waking, loving,
contending, helping,--is valor dealing gayly with the homely old
forces and needs. The marrow is sweet for him who can crack it, in the
roughest or the smoothest bone. One is born with a key to the gladness
of Nature, and glows with the day's work, the touch of hands, the
prospect of to-morrow,--love's production and husbandry, the old worn
grass and sunshine, the winter wind, the games and squabbles of
children and of men. Why is life for John weariness, for James every
moment fresh fire out of the sky?

He who finds what he wants, or makes what he wants, is a god. I know well
the hope of saints and sages, how they connect this life with endless
stages beyond, how they look for the same dignity in all action,
the same motive in every companion; I see what they have signified
by heaven, a state wherein the best loved is the best: but we must
not be scornful, or miss to-day the common delight of living, the
moderate hopes of the healthy multitude.

For no exceptional joy is so wonderful as the universality of joy, the
love of life under every burden and stroke.

The beginning of all beatitude and ground of all is good digestion, good
sleep, good-nature, and the cheer undeniable of an average human
day.

But genius hurries on to expand our hope and dread to incalculable
dimensions. Hell is its first sudden down-look from uncertain flight,
is earth and animalty seen from the sky.

The bad neither so see nor fear.
Few men ever reach a height from which they can sound such depth,
and the popular talk is repetition without corresponding experience.

Hope and fear rise alike to sublimity before the boundless scope
of our future.

Give the hour to folly, and you set back the dial-hand of destiny, you
are so much behind your privilege in every following hour.
Eternity is displaced by the stumbling present as the earth by a
falling pebble, and the act of this low morning is a stone cast in
the sea of universal Being, which shakes and shoulders every drop
of the deep.

The immensity of the universe does not dwarf, but magnifies our activity:

man is multiplied into the sum of all.

But just the same eleven dollars and fifteen cents is
a real bargain. It took me a long time saving for it, though. I carry
papers morning and evening--there's a boy taking my route for me this
afternoon--I give 'm ten cents, an' all the extras he sells is his; and
I'd a-got the boat sooner only I had to pay for my shorthand lessons. My
mother wants me to become a court reporter. They get sometimes as much
as twenty dollars a day. Gee! But I don't want it. It's a shame to waste
the money on the lessons."

"What do you want?" she asked, partly from idleness, and yet with
genuine curiosity; for she felt drawn to this boy in knee pants who was
so confident and at the same time so wistful.

"What do I want?" he repeated after her.

Turning his head slowly, he followed the sky-line, pausing especially
when his eyes rested landward on the brown Contra Costa hills, and
seaward, past Alcatraz, on the Golden Glate. The wistfulness in his eyes
was overwhelming and went to her heart.

"That," he said, sweeping the circle of the world with a wave of his
arm.

"That?" she queried.

He looked at her, perplexed in that he had not made his meaning clear.

"Don't you ever feel that way?" he asked, bidding for sympathy with his
dream. "Don't you sometimes feel you'd die if you didn't know what's
beyond them hills an' what's beyond the other hills behind them hills?
An' the Golden Gate! There's the Pacific Ocean beyond, and China, an'
Japan, an' India, an'... an' all the coral islands. You can go anywhere
out through the Golden Gate--to Australia, to Africa, to the seal
islands, to the North Pole, to Cape Horn. Why, all them places are just
waitin' for me to come an' see 'em. I've lived in Oakland all my life,
but I'm not going to live in Oakland the rest of my life, not by a long
shot. I'm goin' to get away... away...."

Again, as words failed to express the vastness of his desire, the wave
of his arm swept the circle of the world.

Saxon thrilled with him. She too, save for her earlier childhood, had
lived in Oakland all her life. And it had been a good place in which to
live... until now. And now, in all its nightmare horror, it was a place
to get away from, as with her people the East had been a place to get
away from. And why not? The world tugged at her, and she felt in touch
with the lad's desire. Now that she thought of it, her race had never
been given to staying long in one place. Always it had been on the move.
She remembered back to her mother's tales, and to the wood engraving in
her scrapbook where her half-clad forebears, sword in hand, leaped from
their lean beaked boats to do battle on the blood-drenched sands of
England.

"Did you ever hear about the Anglo-Saxons?" she asked the boy.

"You bet!" His eyes glistened, and he looked at her with new interest.
"I'm an Anglo-Saxon, every inch of me. Look at the color of my eyes, my
skin. I'm awful white where I ain't sunburned. An' my hair was yellow
when I was a baby. My mother says it'll be dark brown by the time I'm
grown up, worse luck. Just the same, I'm Anglo-Saxon. I am of a fighting
race. We ain't afraid of nothin'. This bay--think I'm afraid of it!" He
looked out over the water with flashing eye of scorn. "Why, I've crossed
it when it was howlin' an' when the scow schooner sailors said I lied
an' that I didn't. Huh! They were only squareheads. Why, we licked their
kind thousands of years ago. We lick everything we go up against. We've
wandered all over the world, licking the world. On the sea, on the land,
it's all the same. Look at Ivory Nelson, look at Davy Crockett, look at
Paul Jones, look at Clive, an' Kitchener, an' Fremont, an' Kit Carson,
an' all of 'em."

Saxon nodded, while he continued, her own eyes shining, and it came to
her what a glory it would be to be the mother of a man-child like this.
Her body ached with the fancied quickening of unborn life. A good stock,
a good stock, she thought to herself. Then she thought of herself and
Billy, healthy shoots of that same stock, yet condemned to childlessness
because of the trap of the manmade world and the curse of being herded
with the stupid ones.

She came back to the boy.

"My father was a soldier in the Civil War," he was telling her, "a scout
an' a spy. The rebels were going to hang him twice for a spy. At the
battle of Wilson's Creek he ran half a mile with his captain wounded on
his back. He's got a bullet in his leg right now, just above the knee.
It's been there all these years. He let me feel it once. He was a
buffalo hunter and a trapper before the war. He was sheriff of his
county when he was twenty years old. An' after the war, when he was
marshal of Silver City, he cleaned out the bad men an' gun-fighters.
He's been in almost every state in the Union. He could wrestle any man
at the railings in his day, an' he was bully of the raftsmen of the
Susquehanna when he was only a youngster. His father killed a man in a
standup fight with a blow of his fist when he was sixty years old. An'
when he was seventy-four, his second wife had twins, an' he died when he
was plowing in the field with oxen when he was ninety-nine years old. He
just unyoked the oxen, an' sat down under a tree, an' died there sitting
up. An' my father's just like him. He's pretty old now, but he ain't
afraid of nothing. He's a regular Anglo-Saxon, you see. He's a special
policeman, an' he didn't do a thing to the strikers in some of the
fightin'. He had his face all cut up with a rock, but he broke his club
short off over some hoodlum's head."

He paused breathlessly and looked at her.

"Gee!" he said. "I'd hate to a-ben that hoodlum."

"My name is Saxon," she said.

"Your name?"

"My first name."

"Gee!" he cried. "You're lucky. Now if mine had been only Erling--you
know, Erling the Bold--or Wolf, or Swen, or Jarl!"

"What is it?" she asked.

"Only John," he admitted sadly. "But I don't let 'em call one John.
Everybody's got to call me Jack. I've scrapped with a dozen fellows
that tried to call me John, or Johnnie--wouldn't that make you
sick?--Johnnie!"

They were now off the coal bunkers of Long Wharf, and the boy put the
skiff about, heading toward San Francisco. They were well out in the
open bay. The west wind had strengthened and was whitecapping the strong
ebb tide. The boat drove merrily along. When splashes of spray flew
aboard, wetting them, Saxon laughed, and the boy surveyed her with
approval. They passed a ferryboat, and the passengers on the upper deck
crowded to one side to watch them. In the swell of the steamer's wake,
the skiff shipped quarter-full of water. Saxon picked up an empty can
and looked at the boy.

"That's right," he said. "Go ahead an' bale out." And, when she had
finished: "We'll fetch Goat Island next tack. Right there off the
Torpedo Station is where we fish, in fifty feet of water an' the tide
runnin' to beat the band. You're wringing wet, ain't you? Gee! You're
like your name. You're a Saxon, all right. Are you married?"

Saxon nodded, and the boy frowned.

"What'd you want to do that for. Now you can't wander over the world
like I'm going to. You're tied down. You're anchored for keeps."

"It's pretty good to be married, though," she smiled.

"Sure, everybody gets married. But that's no reason to be in a rush
about it. Why couldn't you wait a while, like me, I'm goin' to get
married, too, but not until I'm an old man an' have been everywheres."

Under the lee of Goat Island, Saxon obediently sitting still, he took in
the sail, and, when the boat had drifted to a position to suit him, he
dropped a tiny anchor. He got out the fish lines and showed Saxon how
to bait her hooks with salted minnows. Then they dropped the lines to
bottom, where they vibrated in the swift tide, and waited for bites.

"They'll bite pretty soon," he encouraged. "I've never failed but twice
to catch a mess here. What d'ye say we eat while we're waiting?"

Vainly she protested she was not hungry. He shared his lunch with her
with a boy's rigid equity, even to the half of a hard-boiled egg and the
half of a big red apple.

Still the rockcod did not bite. From under the stern-sheets he drew out
a cloth-bound book.

"Free Library," he vouchsafed, as he began to read, with one hand
holding the place while with the other he waited for the tug on the
fishline that would announce rockcod.

Saxon read the title. It was "Afloat in the Forest."

"Listen to this," he said after a few minutes, and he read several pages
descriptive of a great flooded tropical forest being navigated by boys
on a raft.

"Think of that!" he concluded. "That's the Amazon river in flood time
in South America. And the world's full of places like that--everywhere,
most likely, except Oakland. Oakland's just a place to start from, I
guess. Now that's adventure, I want to tell you. Just think of the luck
of them boys! All the same, some day I'm going to go over the Andes to
the headwaters of the Amazon, all through the rubber country, an' canoe
down the Amazon thousands of miles to its mouth where it's that wide you
can't see one bank from the other an' where you can scoop up perfectly
fresh water out of the ocean a hundred miles from land."

But Saxon was not listening. One pregnant sentence had caught her fancy.
Oakland just a place to start from. She had never viewed the city in
that light. She had accepted it as a place to live in, as an end in
itself. But a place to start from! Why not! Why not like any railroad
station or ferry depot! Certainly, as things were going, Oakland was not
a place to stop in. The boy was right. It was a place to start from. But
to go where? Here she was halted, and she was driven from the train of
thought by a strong pull and a series of jerks on the line. She began to
haul in, hand under hand, rapidly and deftly, the boy encouraging her,
until hooks, sinker, and a big gasping rockcod tumbled into the bottom
of the boat. The fish was free of the hook, and she baited afresh and
dropped the line over. The boy marked his place and closed the book.

"They'll be biting soon as fast as we can haul 'em in," he said.

But the rush of fish did not come immediately.

"Did you ever read Captain Mayne Reid?" he asked. "Or Captain Marryatt?
Or Ballantyne?"

She shook her head.

"And you an Anglo-Saxon!" he cried derisively. "Why, there's stacks of
'em in the Free Library. I have two cards, my mother's an' mine, an'
I draw 'em out all the time, after school, before I have to carry
my papers. I stick the books inside my shirt, in front, under the
suspenders. That holds 'em. One time, deliverin' papers at Second an'
Market--there's an awful tough gang of kids hang out there--I got into a
fight with the leader. He hauled off to knock my wind out, an' he landed
square on a book. You ought to seen his face. An' then I landed on
him. An' then his whole gang was goin' to jump on me, only a couple
of iron-molders stepped in an' saw fair play. I gave 'em the books to
hold."

"Who won?" Saxon asked.

"Nobody," the boy confessed reluctantly. "I think I was lickin' him, but
the molders called it a draw because the policeman on the beat stopped
us when we'd only teen fightin' half an hour. But you ought to seen the
crowd. I bet there was five hundred--"

He broke off abruptly and began hauling in his line. Saxon, too, was
hauling in. And in the next couple of hours they caught twenty pounds of
fish between them.

That night, long after dark, the little, half-decked skiff sailed up the
Oakland Estuary. The wind was fair but light, and the boat moved slowly,
towing a long pile which the boy had picked up adrift and announced
as worth three dollars anywhere for the wood that was in it. The tide
flooded smoothly under the full moon, and Saxon recognized the points
they passed--the Transit slip, Sandy Beach, the shipyards, the nail
works, Market street wharf. The boy took the skiff in to a dilapidated
boat-wharf at the foot of Castro street, where the scow schooners, laden
with sand and gravel, lay hauled to the shore in a long row. He insisted
upon an equal division of the fish, because Saxon had helped catch them,
though he explained at length the ethics of flotsam to show her that the
pile was wholly his.

At Seventh and Poplar they separated, Saxon walking on alone to Pine
street with her load of fish. Tired though she was from the long day,
she had a strange feeling of well-being, and, after cleaning the fish,
she fell asleep wondering, when good times came again, if she could
persuade Billy to get a boat and go out with her on Sundays as she had
gone out that day.


CHAPTER VII

She slept all night, without stirring, without dreaming, and awoke
naturally and, for the first time in weeks, refreshed. She felt her old
self, as if some depressing weight had been lifted, or a shadow had been
swept away from between her and the sun. Her head was clear. The seeming
iron band that had pressed it so hard was gone. She was cheerful. She
even caught herself humming aloud as she divided the fish into messes
for Mrs. Olsen, Maggie Donahue, and herself. She enjoyed her gossip with
each of them, and, returning home, plunged joyfully into the task of
putting the neglected house in order. She sang as she worked, and ever
as she sang the magic words of the boy danced and sparkled among the
notes: OAKLAND IS JUST A PLACE TO START FROM.

Everything was clear as print. Her and Billy's problem was as simple as
an arithmetic problem at school: to carpet a room so many feet long, so
many feet wide, to paper a room so many feet high, so many feet around.
She had been sick in her head, she had had strange lapses, she had
been irresponsible. Very well. All this had been because of her
troubles--troubles in which she had had no hand in the making. Billy's
case was hers precisely. He had behaved strangely because he had been
irresponsible. And all their troubles were the troubles of the trap.
Oakland was the trap. Oakland was a good place to start from.

She reviewed the events of her married life. The strikes and the hard
times had caused everything. If it had not been for the strike of the
shopmen and the fight in her front yard, she would not have lost her
baby. If Billy had not been made desperate by the idleness and the
hopeless fight of the teamsters, he would not have taken to drinking. If
they had not been hard up, they would not have taken a lodger, and Billy
would not be in jail.

Her mind was made up. The city was no place for her and Billy, no
place for love nor for babies. The way out was simple. They would leave
Oakland. It was the stupid that remained and bowed their heads to fate.
But she and Billy were not stupid. They would not bow their heads. They
would go forth and face fate.--Where, she did not know. But that would
come. The world was large. Beyond the encircling hills, out through the
Golden Gate, somewhere they would find what they desired. The boy had
been wrong in one thing. She was not tied to Oakland, even if she was
married. The world was free to her and Billy as it had been free to the
wandering generations before them. It was only the stupid who had been
left behind everywhere in the race's wandering. The strong had gone on.
Well, she and Billy were strong. They would go on, over the brown Contra
Costa hills or out through the Golden Gate.

The day before Billy's release Saxon completed her meager preparations
to receive him. She was without money, and, except for her resolve not
to offend Billy in that way again, she would have borrowed ferry fare
from Maggie Donahue and journeyed to San Francisco to sell some of
her personal pretties. As it was, with bread and potatoes and salted
sardines in the house, she went out at the afternoon low tide and dug
clams for a chowder. Also, she gathered a load of driftwood, and it was
nine in the evening when she emerged from the marsh, on her shoulder a
bundle of wood and a short-handled spade, in her free hand the pail
of clams. She sought the darker side of the street at the corner and
hurried across the zone of electric light to avoid detection by the
neighbors. But a woman came toward her, looked sharply and stopped in
front of her. It was Mary.

"My God, Saxon!" she exclaimed. "Is it as bad as this?"

Saxon looked at her old friend curiously, with a swift glance that
sketched all the tragedy. Mary was thinner, though there was more color
in her cheeks--color of which Saxon had her doubts. Mary's bright eyes
were handsomer, larger--too large, too feverish bright, too restless.
She was well dressed--too well dressed; and she was suffering from
nerves. She turned her head apprehensively to glance into the darkness
behind her.

"My God!" Saxon breathed. "And you..." She shut her lips, then began
anew. "Come along to the house," she said.

"If you're ashamed to be seen with me--" Mary blurted, with one of her
old quick angers.

"No, no," Saxon disclaimed. "It's the driftwood and the clams. I don't
want the neighbors to know. Come along."

"No; I can't, Saxon. I'd like to, but I can't. I've got to catch the
next train to F'risco. I've ben waitin' around. I knocked at your back
door. But the house was dark. Billy's still in, ain't he?"

"Yes, he gets out to-morrow."

"I read about it in the papers," Mary went on hurriedly, looking behind
her. "I was in Stockton when it happened." She turned upon Saxon almost
savagely. "You don't blame me, do you? I just couldn't go back to work
after bein' married. I was sick of work. Played out, I guess, an' no
good anyway. But if you only knew how I hated the laundry even before I
got married. It's a dirty world. You don't dream. Saxon, honest to God,
you could never guess a hundredth part of its dirtiness. Oh, I wish I
was dead, I wish I was dead an' out of it all. Listen--no, I can't now.
There's the down train puffin' at Adeline. I'll have to run for it. Can
I come--"

"Aw, get a move on, can't you?" a man's voice interrupted.

Behind her the speaker had partly emerged from the darkness. No
workingman, Saxon could see that--lower in the world scale, despite his
good clothes, than any workingman.

"I'm comin', if you'll only wait a second," Mary placated.

And by her answer and its accents Saxon knew that Mary was afraid of
this man who prowled on the rim of light.

Mary turned to her.

"I got to beat it; good bye," she said, fumbling in the palm of her
glove.

She caught Saxon's free hand, and Saxon felt a small hot coin pressed
into it. She tried to resist, to force it back.

"No, no," Mary pleaded. "For old times. You can do as much for me some
day. I'll see you again. Good bye."

Suddenly, sobbing, she threw her arms around Saxon's waist, crushing
the feathers of her hat against the load of wood as she pressed her
face against Saxon's breast. Then she tore herself away to arm's length,
passionate, queering, and stood gazing at Saxon.

"Aw, get a hustle, get a hustle," came from the darkness the peremptory
voice of the man.

"Oh, Saxon!" Mary sobbed; and was gone.

In the house, the lamp lighted, Saxon looked at the coin. It was a
five-dollar piece--to her, a fortune. Then she thought of Mary, and
of the man of whom she was afraid. Saxon registered another black mark
against Oakland. Mary was one more destroyed. They lived only five
years, on the average, Saxon had heard somewhere. She looked at the coin
and tossed it into the kitchen sink. When she cleaned the clams, she
heard the coin tinkle down the vent pipe.

It was the thought of Billy, next morning, that led Saxon to go under
the sink, unscrew the cap to the catchtrap, and rescue the five-dollar
piece. Prisoners were not well fed, she had been told; and the thought
of placing clams and dry bread before Billy, after thirty days of prison
fare, was too appalling for her to contemplate. She knew how he liked
to spread his butter on thick, how he liked thick, rare steak fried on a
dry hot pan, and how he liked coffee that was coffee and plenty of it.

Not until after nine o'clock did Billy arrive, and she was dressed in
her prettiest house gingham to meet him. She peeped on him as he came
slowly up the front steps, and she would have run out to him except
for a group of neighborhood children who were staring from across the
street. The door opened before him as his hand reached for the knob,
and, inside, he closed it by backing against it, for his arms were
filled with Saxon. No, he had not had breakfast, nor did he want any
now that he had her. He had only stopped for a shave. He had stood the
barber off, and he had walked all the way from the City Hall because of
lack of the nickel carfare. But he'd like a bath most mighty well, and a
change of clothes. She mustn't come near him until he was clean.

When all this was accomplished, he sat in the kitchen and watched her
cook, noting the driftwood she put in the stove and asking about it.
While she moved about, she told how she had gathered the wood, how she
had managed to live and not be beholden to the union, and by the time
they were seated at the table she was telling him about her meeting with
Mary the night before. She did not mention the five dollars.

Billy stopped chewing the first mouthful of steak. His expression
frightened her. He spat the meat out on his plate.

"You got the money to buy the meat from her," he accused slowly. "You
had no money, no more tick with the butcher, yet here's meat. Am I
right?"

Saxon could only bend her head.

The terrifying, ageless look had come into his face, the bleak and
passionless glaze into his eyes, which she had first seen on the day at
Weasel Park when he had fought with the three Irishmen.

"What else did you buy?" he demanded--not roughly, not angrily, but with
the fearful coldness of a rage that words could not express.

To her surprise, she had grown calm. What did it matter? It was merely
what one must expect, living in Oakland--something to be left behind
when Oakland was a thing behind, a place started from.

"The coffee," she answered. "And the butter."

He emptied his plate of meat and her plate into the frying pan, likewise
the roll of butter and the slice on the table, and on top he poured the
contents of the coffee canister. All this he carried into the back yard
and dumped in the garbage can. The coffee pot he emptied into the sink.
"How much of the money you got left?" he next wanted to know.

Saxon had already gone to her purse and taken it out.

"Three dollars and eighty cents," she counted, handing it to him. "I
paid forty-five cents for the steak."

He ran his eye over the money, counted it, and went to the front door.
She heard the door open and close, and knew that the silver had been
flung into the street. When he came back to the kitchen, Saxon was
already serving him fried potatoes on a clean plate.

"Nothin's too good for the Robertses," he said; "but, by God, that sort
of truck is too high for my stomach. It's so high it stinks."

He glanced at the fried potatoes, the fresh slice of dry bread, and the
glass of water she was placing by his plate.

"It's all right," she smiled, as he hesitated. "There's nothing left
that's tainted."

He shot a swift glance at her face, as if for sarcasm, then sighed and
sat down. Almost immediately he was up again and holding out his arms to
her.

"I'm goin' to eat in a minute, but I want to talk to you first," he
said, sitting down and holding her closely. "Besides, that water ain't
like coffee. Gettin' cold won't spoil it none. Now, listen. You're the
only one I got in this world. You wasn't afraid of me an' what I just
done, an' I'm glad of that. Now we'll forget all about Mary. I got
charity enough. I'm just as sorry for her as you. I'd do anything for
her. I'd wash her feet for her like Christ did. I'd let her eat at my
table, an' sleep under my roof. But all that ain't no reason I should
touch anything she's earned. Now forget her. It's you an' me, Saxon,
only you an' me an' to hell with the rest of the world. Nothing else
counts. You won't never have to be afraid of me again. Whisky an' I
don't mix very well, so I'm goin' to cut whisky out. I've been clean off
my nut, an' I ain't treated you altogether right. But that's all past.
It won't never happen again. I'm goin' to start out fresh.

"Now take this thing. I oughtn't to acted so hasty. But I did. I oughta
talked it over. But I didn't. My damned temper got the best of me, an'
you know I got one. If a fellow can keep his temper in boxin', why he
can keep it in bein' married, too. Only this got me too sudden-like.
It's something I can't stomach, that I never could stomach. An' you
wouldn't want me to any more'n I'd want you to stomach something you
just couldn't."

She sat up straight on his knees and looked at him, afire with an idea.

"You mean that, Billy?"

"Sure I do."

"Then I'll tell you something I can't stomach any more. I'll die if I
have to."

"Well?" he questioned, after a searching pause.

"It's up to you," she said.

"Then fire away."

"You don't know what you're letting yourself in for," she warned. "Maybe
you'd better back out before it's too late."

He shook his head stubbornly.

"What you don't want to stomach you ain't goin' to stomach. Let her go."

"First," she commenced, "no more slugging of scabs."

His mouth opened, but he checked the involuntary protest.

"And, second, no more Oakland."

"I don't get that last."

"No more Oakland. No more living in Oakland. I'll die if I have to. It's
pull up stakes and get out."

He digested this slowly.

"Where?" he asked finally.

"Anywhere. Everywhere. Smoke a cigarette and think it over."

He shook his head and studied her.

"You mean that?" he asked at length.

"I do. I want to chuck Oakland just as hard as you wanted to chuck the
beefsteak, the coffee, and the butter."

She could see him brace himself. She could feel him brace his very body
ere he answered.

"All right then, if that's what you want. We'll quit Oakland. We'll quit
it cold. God damn it, anyway, it never done nothin' for me, an' I
guess I'm husky enough to scratch for us both anywheres. An' now that's
settled, just tell me what you got it in for Oakland for."

And she told him all she had thought out, marshaled all the facts in
her indictment of Oakland, omitting nothing, not even her last visit to
Doctor Hentley's office nor Billy's drinking. He but drew her closer and
proclaimed his resolves anew. The time passed. The fried potatoes grew
cold, and the stove went out.

When a pause came, Billy stood up, still holding her. He glanced at the
fried potatoes.

"Stone cold," he said, then turned to her. Co', Co'," makes a very
musical refrain.

Tennyson's charming "Milking Song" is another flower of poesy that
has sprung up in my divinity's footsteps.

What a variety of individualities a herd of cows presents when you
have come to know them all, not only in form and color, but in manners
and disposition! Some are timid and awkward, and the butt of the
whole herd. Some remind you of deer.

Some have an expression in the face like certain persons you have known.
A petted and well- fed cow has a benevolent and gracious look; an
ill-used and poorly fed one, a pitiful and forlorn look.

Some cows have a masculine or ox expression; others are extremely feminine.
The latter are the ones for milk. Some cows will kick like a horse;
some jump fences like deer.

Every herd has its ringleader, its unruly spirit,--one that plans all
the mischief, and leads the rest through the fences into the grain
or into the orchard.

This one is usually quite different from the master spirit, the
"boss of the yard."

The latter is generally the most peaceful and law-abiding cow in the
lot, and the least bullying and quarrelsome.

But she is not to be trifled with; her will is law; the whole herd
give way before her, those that have crossed horns with her and
those that have not, but yielded their allegiance without crossing.

I remember such a one among my father's milkers when I was a boy,--a
slender-horned, deep-shouldered, large-uddered, dewlapped old cow
that we always put first in the long stable, so she could not have
a cow on each side of her to forage upon; for the master is yielded
to no less in the stanchions than in the yard.

She always had the first place anywhere. She had her choice of standing-room
in the milking-yard, and when she wanted to lie down there or in
the fields the best and softest spot was hers.

When the herd were foddered from the stack or barn, or fed with pumpkins
in the fall, she was always first served.

Her demeanor was quiet but impressive.

She never bullied or gored her mates, but literally ruled them with
the breath of her nostrils.

If any new-comer or ambitious younger cow, however, chafed under her
supremacy, she was ever ready to make good her claims.

And with what spirit she would fight when openly challenged! She was a
whirlwind of pluck and valor; and not after one defeat or two defeats
would she yield the championship.

The boss cow, when overcome, seems to brood over her disgrace, and day
after day will meet her rival in fierce combat.

A friend of mine, a pastoral philosopher, whom I have consulted in regard
to the master cow, thinks it is seldom the case that one rules all the
herd, if it number many, but that there is often one that will
rule nearly all.

"Curiously enough," he says, "a case like this will often occur: No.
1 will whip No. 2; No. 2 whips No.
3; and No. 3 whips No. 1; so around in a circle. This is not a
mistake; it is often the case. I remember," he continued, "we once had
feeding out of a large bin in the centre of the yard six cows who
mastered right through in succession from No. 1 to No. 6; _but_ No. 6
_paid off the score by whipping No. 1._ I often watched them when they
were all trying to feed out of the box, and of course trying,
dog-in-the-manger fashion, each to prevent any other she could.
They would often get in the order to do it very systematically, since
they could keep rotating about the box till the chain happened to get
broken somewhere, when there would be confusion. Their mastership,
you know, like that between nations, is constantly changing. There are
always Napoleons who hold their own through many vicissitudes; but
the ordinary cow is continually liable to lose her foothold.

Some cow she has always despised, and has often sent tossing across
the yard at her horns' ends, some pleasant morning will return the
compliment and pay off old scores."

But my own observation has been that, in herds in which there have been
no important changes for several years, the question of might gets pretty
well settled, and some one cow becomes the acknowledged ruler.

The bully of the yard is never the master, but usually a second or
third rate pusher that never loses an opportunity to hook those beneath
her, or to gore the masters if she can get them in a tight place.
If such a one can get loose in the stable, she is quite certain to do
mischief. She delights to pause in the open bars and turn and keep
those behind her at bay till she sees a pair of threatening horns
pressing toward her, when she quickly passes on.
As one cow masters all, so there is one cow that is mastered by all. These
are the two extremes of the herd, the head and the tail.
Between them are all grades of authority, with none so poor but hath
some poorer to do her reverence.

The cow has evidently come down to us from a wild or semi-wild state;
perhaps is a descendant of those wild, shaggy cattle of which a
small band is still preserved in some nobleman's park in Scotland.

Cuvier seems to have been of this opinion. One of the ways in which her
wild instincts still crop out is the disposition she shows in
spring to hide her calf,--a common practice among the wild herds.

Her wild nature would be likely to come to the surface at this crisis
if ever; and I have known cows that practiced great secrecy in dropping
their calves.

As their time approached, they grew restless, a wild and excited look was
upon them; and if left free, they generally set out for the woods,
or for some other secluded spot. After the calf is several hours old,
and has got upon its feet and had its first meal, the dam by some sign
commands it to lie down and remain quiet while she goes forth to feed.
If the calf is approached at such time, it plays "possum," pretends to
be dead or asleep, till, on finding this ruse does not succeed, it
mounts to its feet, bleats loudly and fiercely, and charges desperately
upon the intruder. But it recovers from this wild scare in a little while,
and never shows signs of it again.

The habit of the cow, also, in eating the placenta, looks to me like a
vestige of her former wild instincts,--the instinct to remove
everything that would give the wild beasts a clew or a scent, and
so attract them to her helpless young.

How wise and sagacious the cows become that run upon the street,
or pick their living along the highway!

The mystery of gates and bars is at last solved to them.

They ponder over them by night, they lurk about them by day, till
they acquire a new sense,--till they become _en rapport_ with them
and know when they are open and unguarded.

The garden gate, if it open into the highway at any point, is never out
of the mind of these roadsters, or out of their calculations.

They calculate upon the chances of its being left open a certain
number of times in the season; and if it be but once, and only for
five minutes, your cabbage and sweet corn suffer.

What villager, or countryman either, has not been awakened at night by the
squeaking and crunching of those piratical jaws under the window,
or in the direction of the vegetable patch?

I have had the cows, after they had eaten up my garden, break into the
stable where my own milcher was tied, and gore her and devour her
meal. Yes, life presents but one absorbing problem to the street cow,
and that is how to get into your garden.

She catches glimpses of it over the fence or through the pickets,
and her imagination or her epigastrium is inflamed.

When the spot is surrounded by a high board fence, I think I have seen
her peeping at the cabbages through a knothole. At last she learns
to open the gate. It is a great triumph of bovine wit. She does it with
her horn or her nose, or may be with her ever-ready tongue. I doubt
if she has ever yet penetrated the mystery of the newer patent
fastenings; but the old-fashioned thumb-latch she can see through,
give her time enough.

A large, lank, muley or polled cow used to annoy me in this way
when I was a dweller in a certain pastoral city.

I more than half suspected she was turned in by some one; so one
day I watched.

Presently I heard the gate-latch rattle; the gate swung open, and in
walked the old buffalo. On seeing me she turned and ran like a horse.
I then fastened the gate on the inside and watched again.
After long waiting the old cow came quickly round the corner and
approached the gate. She lifted the latch with her nose. Then, as the
gate did not move, she lifted it again and again.

Then she gently nudged it. Then, the obtuse gate not taking the hint,
she butted it gently, then harder and still harder, till it rattled
again. At this juncture I emerged from my hiding-place, when the old
villain scampered off with great precipitation. She knew she was
trespassing, and she had learned that there were usually some swift
penalties attached to this pastime.

I have owned but three cows and loved but one. That was the first one,
Chloe, a bright red, curly-pated, golden-skinned Devonshire cow, that
an ocean steamer landed for me upon the banks of the Potomac one
bright May Day many clover summers ago.

She came from the north, from the pastoral regions of the Catskills,
to graze upon the broad commons of the national capital. I was
then the fortunate and happy lessee of an old place with an acre
of ground attached, almost within the shadow of the dome of the
Capitol.

Behind a high but aged and decrepit board fence I indulged my rural
and unclerical tastes. I could look up from my homely tasks and cast
a potato almost in the midst of that cataract of marble steps that flows
out of the north wing of the patriotic pile.

Ah!

when that creaking and sagging back gate closed behind me in the evening,
I was happy; and when it opened for my egress thence in the morning,
I was not happy.

Inside that gate was a miniature farm, redolent of homely,
primitive life, a tumble-down house and stables and implements of
agriculture and horticulture, broods of chickens, and growing
pumpkins, and a thousand antidotes to the weariness of an artificial
life.

Outside of it were the marble and iron palaces, the paved and blistering
streets, and the high, vacant mahogany desk of a government clerk.

In that ancient inclosure I took an earth bath twice a day.

I planted myself as deep in the soil as I could, to restore the normal
tone and freshness of my system, impaired by the above-mentioned
government mahogany. I have found there is nothing like the earth to draw
the various social distempers out of one.

The blue devils take flight at once if they see you mean to bury them
and make compost of them.
Emerson intimates that the scholar had better not try to have two
gardens; but I could never spend an hour hoeing up dock and red-
root and twitch-grass without in some way getting rid of many weeds
and fungi, unwholesome growths, that a petty indoor life is forever
fostering in my moral and intellectual nature.

But the finishing touch was not given till Chloe came. She was the jewel
for which this homely setting waited. My agriculture had some
object then.

The old gate never opened with such alacrity as when she paused
before it.

How we waited for her coming! Should I send Drewer, the colored patriarch,
for her?

No; the master of the house himself should receive Juno at the
capital.

"One cask for you," said the clerk, referring to the steamer bill of
lading.

"Then I hope it's a cask of milk," I said. "I expected a cow."
"One cask, it says here."

"Well, let's see it; I'll warrant it has horns and is tied by a rope;"
which proved to be the case, for there stood the only object that bore
my name, chewing its cud, on the forward deck.

How she liked the voyage I could not find out; but she seemed to relish
so much the feeling of solid ground beneath her feet once more,
that she led me a lively step all the way home.

She cut capers in front of the White House, and tried twice to wind
me up in the rope as we passed the Treasury.

She kicked up her heels on the broad avenue, and became very coltish
as she came under the walls of the Capitol.

But that night the long-vacant stall in the old stable was filled, and
the next morning the coffee had met with a change of heart. I had to
go out twice with the lantern and survey my treasure before I went
to bed. Did she not come from the delectable mountains, and did I not
have a sort of filial regard for her as toward my foster- mother?

This was during the Arcadian age at the capital, before the easy- going
Southern ways had gone out and the prim new Northern ways had come in,
and when the domestic animals were treated with distinguished
consideration and granted the freedom of the city.

There was a charm of cattle in the street and upon the commons; goats
cropped your rosebushes through the pickets, and nooned upon your front
porch; and pigs dreamed Arcadian dreams under your garden fence,
or languidly frescoed it with pigments from the nearest pool.

It was a time of peace; it was the poor man's golden age.

Your cow, your goat, your pig, led vagrant, wandering lives, and
picked up a subsistence wherever they could, like the bees, which was
almost everywhere.

Your cow went forth in the morning and came home fraught with milk
at night, and you never troubled yourself where she went or how far
she roamed.

Chloe took very naturally to this kind of life. At first I had to go with
her a few times and pilot her to the nearest commons, and then I left
her to her own wit, which never failed her.

What adventures she had, what acquaintances she made, how far she
wandered, I never knew. I never came across her in my walks or rambles.
Indeed, on several occasions I thought I would look her up and see
her feeding in national pastures, but I never could find her.

There were plenty of cows, but they were all strangers. But punctually,
between four and five o'clock in the afternoon, her white horns
would be seen tossing above the gate and her impatient low be heard.

Sometimes, when I turned her forth in the morning, she would pause
and apparently consider which way she would go.

Should she go toward Kendall Green to-day, or follow the Tiber, or over
by the Big Spring, or out around Lincoln Hospital? She seldom reached
a conclusion till she had stretched forth her neck and blown a blast
on her trumpet that awoke the echoes in the very lantern on the
dome of the Capitol.

Then, after one or two licks, she would disappear around the corner.

Later in the season, when the grass was parched or poor on the
commons, and the corn and cabbage tempting in the garden, Chloe was
loath to depart in the morning, and her deliberations were longer
than ever, and very often I had to aid her in coming to a decision.

For two summers she was a wellspring of pleasure and profit
in my farm of one acre, when, in an evil moment, I resolved to
part with her and try another. In an evil moment I say, for from that
time my luck in cattle left me. The goddess never forgave me the
execution of that rash and cruel resolve.

The day is indelibly stamped on my memory when I exposed my Chloe
for sale in the public market-place.

It was in November, a bright, dreamy, Indian summer day. A sadness
oppressed me, not unmixed with guilt and remorse. An old Irish woman
came to the market also with her pets to sell, a sow and five pigs,
and took up a position next me.

We condoled with each other; we bewailed the fate of our darlings
together; we berated in chorus the white-aproned but blood-stained
fraternity who prowled about us.

When she went away for a moment I minded the pigs, and when I strolled
about she minded my cow. How shy the innocent beast was of those
carnal marketmen!

How she would shrink away from them! When they put out a hand to feel
her condition she would "scrooch" down her back, or bend this way or that,
as if the hand were a branding-iron. So long as I stood by her head she
felt safe--deluded creature!--and chewed the cud of sweet content; but
the moment I left her side she seemed filled with apprehension,
and followed me with her eyes, lowing softly and entreatingly till
I returned.

At last the money was counted out for her, and her rope surrendered
to the hand of another.

How that last look of alarm and incredulity, which I caught as I
turned for a parting glance, went to my heart!

Her stall was soon filled, or partly filled, and this time with a
native,--a specimen of what may be called the cornstalk breed of
Virginia; a slender, furtive, long-geared heifer just verging on
cowhood, that in spite of my best efforts would wear a pinched and
hungry look.

She evidently inherited a humped back.

It was a family trait, and evidence of the purity of her blood.
For the native blooded cow of Virginia, from shivering over half
rations of cornstalks in the open air during those bleak and windy
winters, and roaming over those parched fields in summer, has come
to have some marked features.

For one thing, her pedal extremities seem lengthened; for another,
her udder does not impede her traveling; for a third, her backbone
inclines strongly to the curve; then, she despiseth hay.

This last is a sure test. Offer a thorough-bred Virginia cow hay,
and she will laugh in your face; but rattle the husks or shucks, and she
knows you to be her friend.

The new-comer even declined corn-meal at first.

She eyed it furtively, then sniffed it suspiciously, but finally
discovered that it bore some relation to her native "shucks," when
she fell to eagerly.

I cherish the memory of this cow, however, as the most affectionate
brute I ever knew.

Being deprived of her calf, she transferred her affections to her
master, and would fain have made a calf of him, lowing in the most
piteous and inconsolable manner when he was out of her sight, hardly
forgetting her grief long enough to eat her meal, and entirely
neglecting her beloved husks.

Often in the middle of the night she would set up that sonorous
lamentation, and continue it till sleep was chased from every eye
in the household.

This generally had the effect of bringing the object of her affection
before her, but in a mood anything but filial or comforting.

Still, at such times a kick seemed a comfort to her, and she
would gladly have kissed the rod that was the instrument of my
midnight wrath.

But her tender star was destined soon to a fatal eclipse. Being tied with
too long a rope on one occasion during my temporary absence, she got
her head into the meal-barrel, and stopped not till she had devoured
nearly half a bushel of dry meal.

The singularly placid and benevolent look that beamed from the meal-
besmeared face when I discovered her was something to be remembered.

For the first time, also, her spinal column came near assuming a horizontal
line.
But the grist proved too much for her frail mill, and her demise
took place on the third day, not of course without some attempt to
relieve her on my part.

I gave her, as is usual in such emergencies, everything I "could
think of," and everything my neighbors could think of, besides some
fearful prescriptions which I obtained from a German veterinary
surgeon, but to no purpose.

I imagined her poor maw distended and inflamed with the baking
sodden mass which no physic could penetrate or enliven.

Thus ended my second venture in live-stock. My third, which followed
sharp upon the heels of this disaster, was scarcely more of a
success.

This time I led to the altar a buffalo cow, as they call the "muley"
down South,--a large, spotted, creamy-skinned cow, with a fine
udder, that I persuaded a Jew drover to part with for ninety dollars.

"Pag like a dish rack (rag)," said he, pointing to her udder after she
had been milked. "You vill come pack and gif me the udder ten tollar"
(for he had demanded an even hundred), he continued, "after you have
had her a gouple of days."
Also, he had said that to look at them
made him hungry, and that they were good enough to eat.

She recollected all the compliments he had ever paid her. Beyond all
treasures, these were treasures to her--the love phrases, praises, and
admirations. He had said her skin was cool--soft as velvet, too, and
smooth as silk. She rolled up her sleeve to the shoulder, brushed her
cheek with the white skin for a test, with deep scrutiny examined the
fineness of its texture. And he had told her that she was sweet; that he
hadn't known what it meant when they said a girl was sweet, not until he
had known her. And he had told her that her voice was cool, that it gave
him the feeling her hand did when it rested on his forehead. Her
voice went all through him, he had said, cool and fine, like a wind of
coolness. And he had likened it to the first of the sea breeze setting
in the afternoon after a scorching hot morning. And, also, when
she talked low, that it was round and sweet, like the 'cello in the
Macdonough Theater orchestra.

He had called her his Tonic Kid. He had called her a thoroughbred,
clean-cut and spirited, all fine nerves and delicate and sensitive.
He had liked the way she carried her clothes. She carried them like a
dream, had been his way of putting it. They were part of her, just as
much as the cool of her voice and skin and the scent of her hair.

And her figure! She got upon a chair and tilted the mirror so that she
could see herself from hips to feet. She drew her skirt back and up.
The slender ankle was just as slender. The calf had lost none of its
delicately mature swell. She studied her hips, her waist, her bosom,
her neck, the poise of her head, and sighed contentedly. Billy must be
right, and he had said that she was built like a French woman, and that
in the matter of lines and form she could give Annette Kellerman cards
and spades.

He had said so many things, now that she recalled them all at one time.
Her lips! The Sunday he proposed he had said: "I like to watch your lips
talking. It's funny, but every move they make looks like a tickly kiss."
And afterward, that same day: "You looked good to me from the first
moment I spotted you." He had praised her housekeeping. He had said he
fed better, lived more comfortably, held up his end with the fellows,
and saved money. And she remembered that day when he had crushed her in
his arms and declared she was the greatest little bit of a woman that
had ever come down the pike.

She ran her eyes over all herself in the mirror again, gathered herself
together into a whole, compact and good to look upon--delicious, she
knew. Yes, she would do. Magnificent as Billy was in his man way, in her
own way she was a match for him. Yes, she had done well by Billy. She
deserved much--all he could give her, the best he could give her. But
she made no blunder of egotism. Frankly valuing herself, she as frankly
valued him. When he was himself, his real self, not harassed by trouble,
not pinched by the trap, not maddened by drink, her man-boy and lover,
he was well worth all she gave him or could give him.

Saxon gave herself a farewell look. No. She was not dead, any more than
was Billy's love dead, than was her love dead. All that was needed was
the proper soil, and their love would grow and blossom. And they were
turning their backs upon Oakland to go and seek that proper soil.

"Oh, Billy!" she called through the partition, still standing on the
chair, one hand tipping the mirror forward and back, so that she was
able to run her eyes from the reflection of her ankles and calves to her
face, warm with color and roguishly alive.

"Yes?" she heard him answer.

"I'm loving myself," she called back.

"What's the game?" came his puzzled query. "What are you so stuck on
yourself for!"

"Because you love me," she answered. "I love every bit of me, Billy,
because... because... well, because you love every bit of me."


CHAPTER XIX

Between feeding and caring for Billy, doing the housework, making plans,
and selling her store of pretty needlework, the days flew happily for
Saxon. Billy's consent to sell her pretties had been hard to get, but at
last she succeeded in coaxing it out of him.

"It's only the ones I haven't used," she urged; "and I can always make
more when we get settled somewhere."

What she did not sell, along with the household linen and hers and
Billy's spare clothing, she arranged to store with Tom.

"Go ahead," Billy said. "This is your picnic. What you say goes. You're
Robinson Crusoe an' I'm your man Friday. Make up your mind yet which way
you're goin' to travel?"

Saxon shook her head.

"Or how?"

She held up one foot and then the other, encased in stout walking shoes
which she had begun that morning to break in about the house. "Shank's
mare, eh?"

"It's the way our people came into the West," she said proudly.

"It'll be regular trampin', though," he argued. "An' I never heard of a
woman tramp."

"Then here's one. Why, Billy, there's no shame in tramping. My mother
tramped most of the way across the Plains. And 'most everybody else's
mother tramped across in those days. I don't care what people will
think. I guess our race has been on the tramp since the beginning of
creation, just like we'll be, looking for a piece of land that looked
good to settle down on."

After a few days, when his scalp was sufficiently healed and the
bone-knitting was nicely in process, Billy was able to be up and about.
He was still quite helpless, however, with both his arms in splints.

Doctor Hentley not only agreed, but himself suggested, that his bill
should wait against better times for settlement. Of government land, in
response to Saxon's eager questioning, he knew nothing, except that he
had a hazy idea that the days of government land were over.

Tom, on the contrary, was confident that there was plenty of government
hand. He talked of Honey Lake, of Shasta County, and of Humboldt.

"But you can't tackle it at this time of year, with winter comin' on,"
he advised Saxon. "The thing for you to do is head south for warmer
weather--say along the coast. It don't snow down there. I tell you what
you do. Go down by San Jose and Salinas an' come out on the coast at
Monterey. South of that you'll find government land mixed up with forest
reserves and Mexican rancheros. It's pretty wild, without any roads to
speak of. All they do is handle cattle. But there's some fine redwood
canyons, with good patches of farming ground that run right down to the
ocean. I was talkin' last year with a fellow that's been all through
there. An' I'd a-gone, like you an' Billy, only Sarah wouldn't hear of
it. There's gold down there, too. Quite a bunch is in there prospectin',
an' two or three good mines have opened. But that's farther along and in
a ways from the coast. You might take a look."

Saxon shook her head. "We're not looking for gold but for chickens and
a place to grow vegetables. Our folks had all the chance for gold in the
early days, and what have they got to show for it?"

"I guess you're right," Tom conceded. "They always played too big a
game, an' missed the thousand little chances right under their nose.
Look at your pa. I've heard him tell of selling three Market street
lots in San Francisco for fifty dollars each. They're worth five hundred
thousand right now. An' look at Uncle Will. He had ranches till the
cows come home. Satisfied? No. He wanted to be a cattle king, a regular
Miller and Lux. An' when he died he was a night watchman in Los Angeles
at forty dollars a month. There's a spirit of the times, an' the spirit
of the times has changed. It's all big business now, an' we're the
small potatoes. Why, I've heard our folks talk of livin' in the Western
Reserve. That was all around what's Ohio now. Anybody could get a farm
them days. All they had to do was yoke their oxen an' go after it, an'
the Pacific Ocean thousands of miles to the west, an' all them thousands
of miles an' millions of farms just waitin' to be took up. A hundred an'
sixty acres? Shucks. In the early days in Oregon they talked six hundred
an' forty acres. That was the spirit of them times--free land, an'
plenty of it. But when we reached the Pacific Ocean them times was
ended. Big business begun; an' big business means big business men;
an' every big business man means thousands of little men without any
business at all except to work for the big ones. They're the losers,
don't you see? An' if they don't like it they can lump it, but it won't
do them no good. They can't yoke up their oxen an' pull on. There's no
place to pull on. China's over there, an' in between's a mighty lot of
salt water that's no good for farmin' purposes."

"That's all clear enough," Saxon commented.

"Yes," her brother went on. "We can all see it after it's happened, when
it's too late."

"But the big men were smarter," Saxon remarked.

"They were luckier," Tom contended. "Some won, but most lost, an' just
as good men lost. It was almost like a lot of boys scramblin' on the
sidewalk for a handful of small change. Not that some didn't have
far-seein'. But just take your pa, for example. He come of good Down
East stock that's got business instinct an' can add to what it's got.
Now suppose your pa had developed a weak heart, or got kidney disease,
or caught rheumatism, so he couldn't go gallivantin' an' rainbow
chasin', an' fightin' an' explorin' all over the West. Why, most likely
he'd a settled down in San Francisco--he'd a-had to--an' held onto them
three Market street lots, an' bought more lots, of course, an' gone
into steamboat companies, an' stock gamblin', an' railroad buildin', an'
Comstock-tunnelin'.

"Why, he'd a-become big business himself. I know 'm. He was the most
energetic man I ever saw, think quick as a wink, as cool as an icicle
an' as wild as a Comanche. Why, he'd a-cut a swath through the free an'
easy big business gamblers an' pirates of them days; just as he cut a
swath through the hearts of the ladies when he went gallopin' past on
that big horse of his, sword clatterin', spurs jinglin', his long hair
flyin', straight as an Indian, clean-built an' graceful as a blue-eyed
prince out of a fairy book an' a Mexican caballero all rolled into
one; just as he cut a swath through the Johnny Rebs in Civil War days,
chargin' with his men all the way through an' back again, an' yellin'
like a wild Indian for more. Cady, that helped raise you, told me about
that. Cady rode with your pa.

"Why, if your pa'd only got laid up in San Francisco, he would a-ben one
of the big men of the West. An' in that case, right now, you'd be a rich
young woman, travelin' in Europe, with a mansion on Nob Hill along with
the Floods and Crockers, an' holdin' majority stock most likely in the
Fairmount Hotel an' a few little concerns like it. An' why ain't you?
Because your pa wasn't smart? No. His mind was like a steel trap. It's
because he was filled to burstin' an' spillin' over with the spirit of
the times; because he was full of fire an' vinegar an' couldn't set down
in one place. That's all the difference between you an' the young women
right now in the Flood and Crocker families. Your father didn't catch
rheumatism at the right time, that's all."

Saxon sighed, then smiled.

"Just the same, I've got them beaten," she said. "The Miss Floods and
Miss Crockers can't marry prize-fighters, and I did."

Tom looked at her, taken aback for the moment, with admiration, slowly
at first, growing in his face.

"Well, all I got to say," he enunciated solemnly, "is that Billy's so
lucky he don't know how lucky he is."


Not until Doctor Hentley gave the word did the splints come off Billy's
arms, and Saxon insisted upon an additional two weeks' delay so that no
risk would be run. These two weeks would complete another month's rent,
and the landlord had agreed to wait payment for the last two months
until Billy was on his feet again.

Salinger's awaited the day set by Saxon for taking back their furniture.
Also, they had returned to Billy seventy-five dollars.

"The rest you've paid will be rent," the collector told Saxon. "And the
furniture's second hand now, too. The deal will be a loss to Salinger's'
and they didn't have to do it, either; you know that. So just remember
they've been pretty square with you, and if you start over again don't
forget them."

Out of this sum, and out of what was realized from Saxon's pretties,
they were able to pay all their small bills and yet have a few dollars
remaining in pocket.

"I hate owin' things worse 'n poison," Billy said to Saxon. "An' now we
don't owe a soul in this world except the landlord an' Doc Hentley."

"And neither of them can afford to wait longer than they have to," she
said.

"And they won't," Billy answered quietly.

She smiled her approval, for she shared with Billy his horror of debt,
just as both shared it with that early tide of pioneers with a Puritan
ethic, which had settled the West.

Saxon timed her opportunity when Billy was out of the house to pack the
chest of drawers which had crossed the Atlantic by sailing ship and the
Plains by ox team. She kissed the bullet hole in it, made in the fight
at Little Meadow, as she kissed her father's sword, the while she
visioned him, as she always did, astride his roan warhorse. With the old
religious awe, she pored over her mother's poems in the scrap-book, and
clasped her mother's red satin Spanish girdle about her in a farewell
embrace. She unpacked the scrap-book in order to gaze a last time at the
wood engraving of the Vikings, sword in hand, leaping upon the English
sands. Again she identified Billy as one of the Vikings, and pondered
for a space on the strange wanderings of the seed from which she sprang.
Always had her race been land-hungry, and she took delight in believing
she had bred true; for had not she, despite her life passed in a city,
found this same land-hunger in her? And was she not going forth to
satisfy that hunger, just as her people of old time had done, as her
father and mother before her? She remembered her mother's tale of how
the promised land looked to them as their battered wagons and weary oxen
dropped down through the early winter snows of the Sierras to the vast
and flowering sun-land of California: In fancy, herself a child of nine,
she looked down from the snowy heights as her mother must have looked
down. She recalled and repeated aloud one of her mother's stanzas:

"'Sweet as a wind-lute's airy strains Your gentle muse has learned to
sing And California's boundless plains Prolong the soft notes echoing.'"

She sighed happily and dried her eyes. Perhaps the hard times were
past. Perhaps they had constituted HER Plains, and she and Billy had won
safely across and were even then climbing the Sierras ere they dropped
down into the pleasant valley land.

Salinger's wagon was at the house, taking out the furniture, the morning
they left. The landlord, standing at the gate, received the keys, shook
hands with them, and wished them luck. "You're goin' at it right," he
congratulated them. "Sure an' wasn't it under me roll of blankets I
tramped into Oakland meself forty year ago! Buy land, like me, when it's
cheap. It'll keep you from the poorhouse in your old age. There's plenty
of new towns springin' up. Get in on the ground floor. The work of your
hands'll keep you in food an' under a roof, an' the lend 'll make you
well to do. An' you know me address. When you can spare send me along
that small bit of rent. An' good luck. An' don't mind what people think.
'Tis them that looks that finds."

Curious neighbors peeped from behind the blinds as Billy and Saxon
strode up the street, while the children gazed at them in gaping
astonishment. On Billy's back, inside a painted canvas tarpaulin, was
slung the roll of bedding. Inside the roll were changes of underclothing
and odds and ends of necessaries. Outside, from the lashings, depended
a frying pan and cooking pail. In his hand he carried the coffee pot.
Saxon carried a small telescope basket protected by black oilcloth, and
across her back was the tiny ukulele case.

"We must look like holy frights," Billy grumbled, shrinking from every
gaze that was bent upon him.

"It'd be all right, if we were going camping," Saxon consoled. "Only
we're not."

"But they don't know that," she continued. "It's only you know that, and
what you think they're thinking isn't what they're thinking at all. Most
probably they think we're going camping. And the best of it is we are
going camping. We are! We are!"

At this Billy cheered up, though he muttered his firm intention to knock
the block off of any guy that got fresh. He stole a glance at Saxon. Her
cheeks were red, her eyes glowing.

"Say," he said suddenly. "I seen an opera once, where fellows wandered
over the country with guitars slung on their backs just like you with
that strummy-strum. You made me think of them. They was always singin'
songs."

"That's what I brought it along for," Saxon answered.

"And when we go down country roads we'll sing as we go along, and we'll
sing by the campfires, too. We're going camping, that's all. Taking a
vacation and seeing the country. So why shouldn't we have a good time?
Why, we don't even know where we're going to sleep to-night, or any
night. Think of the fun!"

"It's a sporting proposition all right, all right," Billy considered.
"But, just the same, let's turn off an' go around the block. There's
some fellows I know, standin' up there on the next corner, an' I don't
want to knock THEIR blocks off."


BOOK III


CHAPTER I

The car ran as far as Hayward's, but at Saxon's suggestion they got off
at San Leandro.

"It doesn't matter where we start walking," she said, "for start to walk
somewhere we must. And as we're looking for land and finding out about
land, the quicker we begin to investigate the better. Besides, we want
to know all about all kinds of land, close to the big cities as well as
back in the mountains."

"Gee!--this must be the Porchugeeze headquarters," was Billy's
reiterated comment, as they walked through San Leandro.

"It looks as though they'd crowd our kind out," Saxon adjudged.

"Some tall crowdin', I guess," Billy grumbled. "It looks like the
free-born American ain't got no room left in his own land."

"Then it's his own fault," Saxon said, with vague asperity, resenting
conditions she was just beginning to grasp.

"Oh, I don't know about that. I reckon the American could do what the
Porchugeeze do if he wanted to. Only he don't want to, thank God. He
ain't much given to livin' like a pig often leavin's."

"Not in the country, maybe," Saxon controverted. "But I've seen an awful
lot of Americans living like pigs in the cities."

Billy grunted unwilling assent. "I guess they quit the farms an' go to
the city for something better, an' get it in the neck."

"Look at all the children!" Saxon cried. "School's letting out. And
nearly all are Portuguese, Billy, NOT Porchugeeze. Mercedes taught me
the right way."

"They never wore glad rags like them in the old country," Billy sneered.
"They had to come over here to get decent clothes and decent grub.
They're as fat as butterballs."

Saxon nodded affirmation, and a great light seemed suddenly to kindle in
her understanding.

"That's the very point, Billy. They're doing it--doing it farming, too.
Strikes don't bother THEM."

"You don't call that dinky gardening farming," he objected, pointing to
a piece of land barely the size of an acre, which they were passing.

"Oh, your ideas are still big," she laughed. "You're like Uncle Will,
who owned thousands of acres and wanted to own a million, and who wound
up as night watchman. That's what was the trouble with all us Americans.
Everything large scale. Anything less than one hundred and sixty acres
was small scale."

"Just the same," Billy held stubbornly, "large scale's a whole lot
better'n small scale like all these dinky gardens."

Saxon sighed. "I don't know which is the dinkier," she observed finally,
"--owning a few little acres and the team you're driving, or not owning
any acres and driving a team somebody else owns for wages."

Billy winced.

"Go on, Robinson Crusoe," he growled good naturedly. "Rub it in good
an' plenty. An' the worst of it is it's correct. A hell of a free-born
American I've been, adrivin' other folkses' teams for a livin',
a-strikin' and a-sluggin' scabs, an' not bein' able to keep up with the
installments for a few sticks of furniture. Just the same I was sorry
for one thing. I hated worse in Sam Hill to see that Morris chair go
back--you liked it so. We did a lot of honeymoonin' in that chair."

They were well out of San Leandro, walking through a region of tiny
holdings--"farmlets," Billy called them; and Saxon got out her ukulele
to cheer him with a song.

First, it was "Treat my daughter kind-i-ly," and then she swung into
old-fashioned darky camp-meeting hymns, beginning with:

"Oh! de Judgmen' Day am rollin' roan', Rollin', yes, a-rollin', I hear
the trumpets' awful soun', Rollin', yes, a-rollin'."

A big touring car, dashing past, threw a dusty pause in her singing, and
Saxon delivered herself of her latest wisdom.

"Now, Billy, remember we're not going to take up with the first piece of
land we see. We've got to go into this with our eyes open--"

"An' they ain't open yet," he agreed.

"And we've got to get them open. ''Tis them that looks that finds.'
There's lots of time to learn things. We don't care if it takes months
and months. We're footloose. A good start is better than a dozen bad
ones. We've got to talk and find out. We'll talk with everybody we meet.
Ask questions. Ask everybody. It's the only way to find out."

"I ain't much of a hand at askin' questions," Billy demurred.

"Then I'll ask," she cried. "We've got to win out at this game, and
the way is to know. Look at all these Portuguese. Where are all the
Americans? They owned the land first, after the Mexicans. What made the
Americans clear out? How do the Portuguese make it go? Don't you see?
We've got to ask millions of questions."

She strummed a few chords, and then her clear sweet voice rang out
gaily:

"I's g'wine back to Dixie, I's g'wine back to Dixie, I's g'wine where de
orange blossoms grow, For I hear de chillun callin', I see de sad tears
fallin'--My heart's turned back to Dixie, An' I mus'go."

She broke off to exclaim: "Oh! What a lovely place! See that arbor--just
covered with grapes!"

Again and again she was attracted by the small places they passed. Now
it was: "Look at the flowers!" or: "My! those vegetables!" or: "See!
They've got a cow!"

Men--Americans--driving along in buggies or runabouts looked at Saxon
and Billy curiously. This Saxon could brook far easier than could Billy,
who would mutter and grumble deep in his throat.

Beside the road they came upon a lineman eating his lunch.

"Stop and talk," Saxon whispered.

"Aw, what's the good? He's a lineman. What'd he know about farmin'?"

"You never can tell. He's our kind. Go ahead, Billy. You just speak to
him. He isn't working now anyway, and he'll be more likely to talk. See
that tree in there, just inside the gate, and the way the branches are
grown together. It's a curiosity. Ask him about it. That's a good way to
get started."

Billy stopped, when they were alongside.

"How do you do," he said gruffly.

The lineman, a young fellow, paused in the cracking of a hard-boiled egg
to stare up at the couple.

"How do you do," he said.

Billy swung his pack from his shoulders to the ground, and Saxon rested
her telescope basket.

"Peddlin'?" the young man asked, too discreet to put his question
directly to Saxon, yet dividing it between her and Billy, and cocking
his eye at the covered basket.

"No," she spoke up quickly. "We're looking for land. Do you know of any
around here?"

Again he desisted from the egg, studying them with sharp eyes as if to
fathom their financial status.

"Do you know what land sells for around here?" he asked.

"No," Saxon answered. "Do you?"

"I guess I ought to. I was born here. And land like this all around you
runs at from two to three hundred to four an' five hundred dollars an
acre."

"Whew!" Billy whistled. "I guess we don't want none of it."

"But what makes it that high? Town lots?" Saxon wanted to know.

"Nope. The Porchugeeze make it that high, I guess."

"I thought it was pretty good land that fetched a hundred an acre,"
Billy said.

"Oh, them times is past. They used to give away land once, an' if you
was good, throw in all the cattle runnin' on it."

"How about government land around here?" was Billy'a next query.

"Ain't none, an' never was. This was old Mexican grants. My grandfather
bought sixteen hundred of the best acres around here for fifteen
hundred dollars--five hundred down an' the balance in five years without
interest. But that was in the early days. He come West in '48, tryin' to
find a country without chills an' fever."

"He found it all right," said Billy.

"You bet he did. An' if him an' father 'd held onto the land it'd been
better than a gold mine, an' I wouldn't be workin' for a livin'. What's
your business?"

"Teamster."

"Ben in the strike in Oakland?"

"Sure thing. I've teamed there most of my life."

Here the two men wandered off into a discussion of union affairs and the
strike situation; but Saxon refused to be balked, and brought back the
talk to the land.

"How was it the Portuguese ran up the price of lend?" she asked.

The young fellow broke away from union matters with an effort, and for a
moment regarded her with lack luster eyes, until the question sank into
his consciousness.

"Because they worked the land overtime. Because they worked mornin',
noon, an' night, all hands, women an' kids. Because they could get more
out of twenty acres than we could out of a hundred an' sixty. Look at
old Silva--Antonio Silva. I've known him ever since I was a shaver.
He didn't have the price of a square meal when he hit this section and
begun leasin' land from my folks. Look at him now--worth two hundred
an' fifty thousan' cold, an' I bet he's got credit for a million, an'
there's no tellin' what the rest of his family owns."

"And he made all that out of your folks' land?" Saxon demanded.

The young man nodded his head with evident reluctance.

"Then why didn't your folks do it?" she pursued.

The lineman shrugged his shoulders.

"Search me," he said.

"But the money was in the land," she persisted.

"Blamed if it was," came the retort, tinged slightly with color. "We
never saw it stickin' out so as you could notice it. The money was in
the hands of the Porchugeeze, I guess. They knew a few more 'n we did,
that's all."

Saxon showed such dissatisfaction with his explanation that he was stung
to action. He got up wrathfully. "Come on, an' I'll show you," he
said. "I'll show you why I'm workin' for wages when I might a-ben a
millionaire if my folks hadn't been mutts. That's what we old Americans
are, Mutts, with a capital M."

He led them inside the gate, to the fruit tree that had first attracted
Saxon's attention. From the main crotch diverged the four main branches
of the tree. Two feet above the crotch the branches were connected, each
to the ones on both sides, by braces of living wood.

"You think it growed that way, eh? Well, it did. But it was old Silva
that made it just the same--caught two sprouts, when the tree was young,
an' twisted 'em together. Pretty slick, eh? You bet. That tree'll never
blow down. It's a natural, springy brace, an' beats iron braces stiff.
Look along all the rows. Every tree's that way. See? An' that's just one
trick of the Porchugeeze. They got a million like it.

"Figure it out for yourself. They don't need props when the crop's
heavy. Why, when we had a heavy crop, we used to use five props to
a tree. Now take ten acres of trees. That'd be some several thousan'
props. Which cost money, an' labor to put in an' take out every year.
These here natural braces don't have to have a thing done. They're
Johnny-on-the-spot all the time. Why, the Porchugeeze has got us skinned
a mile. Come on, I'll show you."

Billy, with city notions of trespass, betrayed perturbation at the
freedom they were making of the little farm.

"Oh, it's all right, as long as you don't step on nothin'," the lineman
reassured him. "Besides, my grandfather used to own this. They know me.
Forty years ago old Silva come from the Azores. Went sheep-herdin' in
the mountains for a couple of years, then blew in to San Leandro. These
five acres was the first land he leased. That was the beginnin'. Then he
began leasin' by the hundreds of acres, an' by the hundred-an'-sixties.
An' his sisters an' his uncles an' his aunts begun pourin' in from the
Azores--they're all related there, you know; an' pretty soon San Leandro
was a regular Porchugeeze settlement.

"An' old Silva wound up by buyin' these five acres from grandfather.
Pretty soon--an' father by that time was in the hole to the neck--he was
buyin' father's land by the hundred-an'-sixties. An' all the rest of
his relations was coin' the same thing. Father was always gettin' rich
quick, an' he wound up by dyin' in debt. But old Silva never overlooked
a bet, no matter how dinky. An' all the rest are just like him. You
see outside the fence there, clear to the wheel-tracks in the
road--horse-beans. The wise men of my knowledge were farmers, drovers,
traders, learned beyond the book. You cannot feed but you put me in
communication with all forests, fields, streams, seas.
Give me one companion, and between us two is quickly repeated the history
of the race. In a plant, an animal, a day or year, in elements, their
feuds and fruitful marriages, in a private or public history, the
thinker is admitted to the end of thought. A scholar can add nothing
to my perfect wonder, though he bring Egypt, Assyria, and Greece. I find
myself where I was, in Egypt, Assyria, and Greece: I find the old
earth, the old sky, the old astonishment of man. Cæsar and the
grasshopper, both are alike within my knowledge and beyond. There is
some vague report of a remote divine, at which he will smile who
finds no least escape from the divine.

Two points are given in every regard, man and the world, subject,
we say, and object, a creature seen and a creature seeing, marvelling,
knowing, ignorant.

Either of these openings will lead quickly to light too pure for our
organs, and launch us on the sea beyond every shore. The artist studies
a fair face; there is no supplement to his delight. In temples, statues,
pictures, poems, symphonies, and actions, only the same eternal splendor
shines. It is the sun which lights all lands,--"that planet," as Dante
sings,
"Which leads men straight on every road."
He is delivered there at home to Beauty, which makes and is the
world.

Genius is royal knowledge. In the nearest need it studies all ages and
all worlds. Let me understand my neighbors and my meat; you may have
the libraries and schools. I read here living languages,--the eye, the
attitude and temperament, the wish and will: Hebrew and Greek must
wait.
He who knows how to value "Hamlet" will never subscribe for your
picture of "Shakspeare's Study."

Great intelligence runs quickly through our primers, our cities,
constitutions, galleries, traditions, cathedrals, creeds.

The long invention of the race is a tortuous, obscure way. Must I creep
all my fresh years in that labyrinth, and postpone youth to the end of
age? What need of so much experience and contrivance, if without
contrivance, if by simplicity, the children surely and beautifully
live?

Healthy thought is organic, grows by assimilation, vitalizes all it
takes, and so like a plant puts forth knowledge from the old and
from within. The apple of to-morrow is earth, not apple, till it hangs
on the tree. Our knowing seems rather rejection than acceptance, so much
is husk in bulk. From eight thousand miles of geology the tree takes a
few drops of water and distils from these its own again.

Vigor of mind is judgment, which divides the meat from the shell, that
which cumbers from that which thrills. The act is simple, inevitable; let
it be energetic and final. We say, "This is valuable, it quickens me; the
rest is nonsense." A feeble mind needs now chiefly to be rid of rubbish,
of cheap admirations, an awe before the hair-pins and shoe-ties of
society, before the true church, the scholastic learning, dead
languages, the Fathers and the fashion. To set the savage of civilization
free from his superstition, these idols must be insulted before his
face.

A little energy of demand displaces them from regard. The scholars are
busy with punctuation, chronology, and the lives of the little great,
so that their visit is a vastation, and I must turn them out of
doors.
Genius will continue unable to spell, to read the German, to count
the Egyptian kings. There is royal ignorance, the preoccupation of gods.
For the wise, if no object is trifling, yet part of every object
is foreign to its best intent. Every nut is inwardly a man and
a miracle, but outwardly a shell. If it be a book, the thought is a
shell, though God be in the thought. The book is another thing, another
world of power and form, and the power will consume the form as a sword
eats its sheath, the soul the body, or fire the pan.

The letter drops, for the spirit must expand and be set free. The
positive and negative poles of Nature reappear in every creature, and
the positive element must prevail.

When we have learned to live, we shall--or shall not--learn to spell.

The last refreshment is intercourse with a kingly mind, which has no need
to shift its centre, but lies abroad hemispheric, and sleeps like
sunshine, bathing silently the earth and sky.

Such a mind is at home, not in position, but in a vital relation to
Nature, which leaves no spaces dark and cold for wandering, and knows no
change that is worth the name of change. It is rest to be with one
who is at rest, who cannot go to or go from his happiness, for whom the
meaning of Deity is here and now. What stillness and depth of
manner are communicated to all who sound the deeps of life! what a
refuge is their society from wit, zeal, and gossip, from petty estimates
and demands! To these, now first encountered, we have been always known;
in them we meet no private motive, no accomplishment, reputation,
ability, immediate haunting purpose, but a Sabbath from personal
fortunes.

We meet the great above all that can be mine or thine, above gifts
and accidents in common manhood and prosperity. Swedenborg reports no
encounter on higher ground. The seven heavens open to me in a mind
which gives rank to its own facts, and wherever it is housed still finds
the universe only a larger body around the soul.

Genius declares the total or representative value of its own facts against
the neglect or contempt of mankind.

Intelligence is centre of centres, and all things diminish as they
recede from the eye.

Every natural law is some hint to us of our commanding position. The
good thought is never a toilsome going abroad, but some settling
at home to new intimacy with the fortune which waits on all.

It is no putting out legs, but a putting down roots to take possession
of the earth and the nether heavens, while we fill the upper sky
with climbing shoots.

Intelligence is at one with the system, able to entertain it as a
unit, to refer every particle, dark as a particle, to its shining
place in the transparent whole.

How can I afford to drop my errand, to go wonder after the fore-world,
after Plato, Washington, or Paul?

These are men who never dropped their errands to go wonder after the
Maker himself.

They found God in the thing lying nearest to be done.

As right action in the remotest corner is a world-victory, so right
thought applied to the lowest circumstance is cosmic thought.

In the fortune of the hour we have a home beyond the fortune of the hour.
The least circle of order now organized and established in our lives is
not a poor house frozen to the ground, but a ship able to outride
the currents of time, a charmed circle of security which will serve
us still in every following world.

Our future is to be found, not in multiplication of examples, but in
deeper sympathy with all we have superficially known.

We shall never rightly celebrate the stillness and sweetness of truth in
an open mind. Clear perception is refreshing as sleep.

It is a sleep from blunder, care, and sin.

In every thought we are lifted to sit with the serene rulers, and see
how lightly, yet firmly, in their orbits the worlds are borne.

With insight we work freely, for every result is secure; we rest,
for every stream will bear us to the sea. Peace is joy beyond the
perturbation of joy, is entertainment of Omnipotence in the breast.

A filial relation to the universe is well expressed, not in speech,
but in the attitudes of her children, in their balance, tranquillity,
directness, their firm and quiet grasp, look, step, tone.

Confidence and joy are the only moral agents. Worship is immortal cheer.
The Greeks rebuke us with their sacred festivals and games: why should
we not hunt every evil as we follow gayly the buffalo and bear?

Virtue cannot be wrinkled and sad; Virtue is a joy of the Right added
to our earliest joy,--is refreshment and health, not fever. The
Etruscan are right religious sculptures: the body will be more,
not less, when the soul is most; for the body is created and
perfected, not devoured by the soul.

In another Eden the curves of grace and power will reappear; every wrinkle
will be counted sin; goodness will be sap and blood, a growth of grapes
and roses, a sacrament of energy and content.

If there be great wrongs, we cannot distrust the Maker, and postpone
the security of the soul.

Impatience is a wrong as great as any. Love and trust are remedies for
wrong. Music is our cure for insanity, and I remember that incantation
of fair reasons which Plato prescribed.

What gain is in scolding and knitting the brows?

The blue sky, the bright cloud, the star of night, the star of day, every
creature is in its smiling place a protest of the universe against our
hasty method of counter-working wrong with wrong.

Let loose the Right. Go forward with martial music; never await or
seek, but carry victory and win every battle in the organization of
your band. Hear Beethoven:--"Nor do I fear for my works. No evil can
befall them, and whosoever shall understand them shall be free
from all such misery as burdens mankind."

From this security in the lap of Nature, this nest in the grass, we
rise easily to every height. Gladness becomes uncontainable, a pain of
fulness, for which, after all effort, there is no complete relief;
for language breaks under it in delivery, and Art falls to the
ground.

The psalm of David, the statue of Angelo, the chorus of Handel, are
inarticulate cries. These men have not justified to us their confidence.

It will be shared, not justified. They have divined what they cannot
orderly publish, and their meaning will be by the same greatness
divined again.

The work of such men remains a haunting, commanding enigma to
following ages.

They do but repeat the promise and obscurity of Nature, for she herself
has the same largeness, is such another _raptus_, proceeding to
no end, but to a circle or complexity of ends.

Men are again and again divided over the images of Paul, of Plato,
of Dante, unable to escape from their authority, more unable to
give them final interpretation.

They leave Nature, to puzzle over the inexhaustible book. What does it
mean? What does it not mean? The poet will never wait till he can demonstrate
and explain. He must hasten to convey a blessing greater than explanation,
to publish, if it were only by broken hints, by signs and dumb
pointing, his sense of a presence not to be comprehended or named.

For, if the seer is sustained, he is also commanded by what he sees.

Genius is not religious, but religion, an opening to the conscience
of the universe no less than to the joy. From this original the moral,
intellectual, and æsthetic sense will each derive a conscience, and
rule with equal sovereignty the man. Through an ant or an angel the
first influx of reality is entertained in an attitude of worship, and
the poet, in his vision, cries with Virgil to Dante:--
"Down, down, bend low Thy knees!

behold God's angel! fold thy hands!
Henceforward shalt thou see true ministers!"
Revelation is not more a new light than a new heart and will;
revelation to me is the conquest and renewal of me.

What is lovely will not be encountered without love, the Creator
holds the key to the creature, Order and Right may freely enter to be
man. He who can open any object to its source is touched therein by the
finger of God, and insight is inevitable consecration.

Give the coward a suspicion of our human destiny, and he is no
longer coward; he would gladly be cut in pieces and burned in any
flame to shed abroad that light.

Life has such an irresistible tendency to extend, that it makes of the man
a mere vehicle, takes him for hands and feet, wheels and wings:
he is glad only when the truth runs and prevails.

Enthusiasm, devotion, earnestness are names for this possession of the
deep thinker by his thought. He lives in that, and has in it his
prosperity, no longer in the flesh.

The inspired man becomes great by absorption in a great design; he is
preoccupied, and trifles, for which other men are bought and sold,
shine before him as beads of glass with which savages are wheedled.

We drop our playthings, our banks and coaches, crowns, swords,
colleges, and sugar-plums in a heap together, when any moment opens
to us the scope of our activity, and carries far forward the curve
through which we have already run.

The divine authority of Genius is given in this descent and superiority
to will. That which in me I must obey, that also above me all men must
obey.

Will is the centre of the practical man, of all force, not moral,
but brute or natural, and is identified in the common thought with
myself, as I am a natural cause.

Will is the sum of physical forces necessary for self-preservation, is
reagency against the formidable rivalry of every other organization.

In this animal centre the laws are carried up, as reins are gathered to
be put into the hands of a driver, and being tied in a knot just
where the physical touches the celestial sphere, they seem to be
moral, and Will much more than the body is in popular thought inseparable
from man. It is an organ into which he has thrown himself in reckless
neglect of his privilege, a grasping hand which rules the world as
we see it ruled, masters and takes to itself for extension all laws below
its own level, wields Nature as an instrument, breaks down a weaker
will, and carries away the material mind until some God from above shall
deliver it. Will is that living Fate of which exterior necessity is but
the form. From it we are instantly delivered in conviction, and find it
ever after the servant, not the synonyme of man.

The boy does not choose, neither does the belly choose for him, what
object shall be supremely beautiful in his eyes. He has not resolved to
see only this splendor of color, and neglect sound,--or to give
himself to sound alone, and shut his eyes to sight. If the divine
order reaches any mind, those creatures in which it appears will haunt
that mind, will take lordly their own place, and hang as constellations
high overhead in thought.

So long as he can turn the eye hither and thither, or lightly
determine what he will see, the man is conversant with form alone,
and bigots who are on that plane of experience identify him with
choice, hold thought to be altogether voluntary, and burn the thinker,
as though his view were a fruit, not a root, of him. But truth is that
which does not wait for our making, but makes us,--does not lie like
water at the bottom of our wells, but comes like sunshine flooding the
air, and compelling recognition. "To believe your own thought," says a
master, "that is genius"; but is not genius primarily the arrival
of a thought able to authenticate itself, to compel trust, and
make its own value known against the sneers or anger of the world?

From my own thought once reached there is but one appeal,--to my own
thought: from Philip sober to Philip more sober.

The good spirit appears as a spark in our embers, and draws out these
careful hands to ward itself from every gust,--sets our tasks and crowns
them. We know that from first desire to last performance wisdom is
altogether a grace.

Wisdom is this wish for wisdom, already given in the readiness to
receive.

We have not cared for it, but it has cared for us.

Grown stronger, it is a guide, and needs none. Turner sees what he must
love; there is no rule for such seeing: what he does not love is
hid from him; there is no rule for such omission.

It is in the eye, not more a happy opening than a happy closing.

A private ordinance, dividing man into men, makes the same creature a
wall to one, an open door to his neighbor. The value of man appears to
Scott in feudalism, to Wordsworth in contemplation, to Byron in
impatience, to Kant in certainty, to Calvin in authority, to Calame
in landscape, to Newton in measure, to Carlyle in retribution, to
Shakspeare in society, to Dante in the contrast of right and wrong.

One man by grandeur sees mountains in the coals of his grate; another
by gentleness only sunshine and grasses on Monadnock. You will not
say that he chooses, but that he is chosen so to see.

Light opens the eye without our intention, and we are at no trouble
to paint on the retina what must there appear. Success is fidelity to
that which must appear.

Weak men discuss forever the laws of Art, and contrive how to paint,
questioning whether this or that element should have emphasis or be
shown. If there is any question, there will be no Art. The man must
feel to do, and what he does from overmastering feeling will
convince and be forever right.

The work is organic which grows so above composition or plan.
After you are engaged by the symphony, there is no escape, no pause;
each note springs out of each as branch from branch of a tree. It could
be no otherwise; it cannot be otherwise conceived. Why could not I have
found this sequence inevitable, as well as another?

Plainly, the symphony was discovered, not made,--was written before man,
like astronomy in the sky.

Only the mastery of one who is mastered by Nature will control and
renovate mankind.

It is easy to recognize the habit of conviction, freedom from within,
and personal motive, the man bending himself as for life or death to
show exactly what he sees. The inspired man we know who appeals to a
divine necessity, and says, "I can do no otherwise; God be my help!
amen!"--for whom praise and property and comfortable continuance on
this planet are trifles, so great an object has opened to him in the
inviolable moral law.

Every perception takes hold at last on duty as well as desire, claims and
carries away the man entire, though it were to danger or death. The
system, grown friendly, has grown sacred also; departure from it is
shame and guilt, as well as loss. An artist, therefore, like the
Greek, is busy with portraits of the gods, and every celebration of Beauty
is another Missa Solemnis, Te Deum, and Gloria.

Whatever object becomes transparent to a man will be his medium of
communication with the Maker and with mankind.

He hurries to show therein what he has seen, as children run for their
companions and point their discoveries.

These are his unsolicited angels, higher above his reach than above
that of the crowd; for every good thought is more a surprise to the
thinker than to any other.

The seer points always from himself as a telescope to the sky; he
is no creator, but a bit of broken glass in the sun.

What is any man in the presence of haunting Perfection, never to be shown
without mutilation and dishonor? Is it ours? In Him we live and
move.

While the Ego is pronounced and fills consciousness, man seems to be
and do somewhat of himself; but when the universal Soul is manifest
above will, his eyes turn away from that old battery; he is absorbed
in what he sees,--forgets himself, his deeds, wants, gains.

He is rapt; stands like Socrates a day and a night in contemplation;
sits like Newton for twelve hours half dressed on the edge of his bed,
arrested in rising. He is that madman to the world who neglects his
meat, postpones his private enterprise, regards honor and comfort as
so much interruption to this commerce with reality. We are all tired
of property which is exclusion, of goods which must be taken from
another to serve me.

Good should grow with sharing,--more for me when all is given. In the
spirit there are no fences, boxes, or bags.

Presenting truth, I declare it as freely yours as mine.

Every act of genius proclaims that the highest gift is no monopoly or
singularity, no privilege of one, but the birthright of the race.
Shakspeare knows well that we shall easily see what he sees; he considers
it no secret.

We are always feeling beforehand for every right word now about to
be spoken in the world; many men give tokens of the general habit of
thought before he is born who clearly knows what all were dreaming.

Wisdom has only gone before us on our own path, and we overtake our guide
in every perception. Yet we are lifted quite off our feet by any new
possibility revealed in life: every circle drawn round our own
astonishes, though it be drawn from our centre. The poet in his certainty
appears a child of the heavens, and we strike another foolish line through
the crowd, as though every man were not his own poet as truly as he is
his own priest and governor, as though each were not entitled to see
whatever is to be seen. The masters of thought may teach us better. They
address their loftiest power in us, and never sing to oxen or dogs.

The painting, poem, statue, oratorio, calls to me by name; the morning is
an eye that solicits mine. Shall I take only the husks, and leave to
another, contented, always, the life of life?

He is supreme poet who can make me a poet, able to reach the same supplies
after he is gone. We are bits of iron charged by this magnet, and
lose our quality when it is removed; we are not quite made magnets as
we should be by this magnetic planet and the revolutions of the sun;
yet the great polarity of our globe is a sum of little polarities, and
every scrap of metal has its own.

We are made musical by the passing band; we go on humming and
marching to the air; but he who wrote it was made musical by silence
and sunshine.

Soon our own vibrations will be more easily induced, as old instruments
sound with a touch or breath.

We shall throb with inarticulate rhythms, and understand the bard who
sings,--

"Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter."
The poet is one who has detected this latency of power in every
breast.

His delight is a feeling that all doors are open to all, that he
is no favorite, but the rest are late sleepers, and he only earlier
awake.

Depth of genius is measured by depth of this conviction. Egotism is incurable
greenness.

An artist is one who has more, not less, respect for the common eye.

The seer points always from his own to a public privilege,--says never,
"I, Jesus, have so received," but, "The Son of Man must so receive";
and Shakspeare cuts himself into fragments till there is no
Shakspeare left behind, as if expressly to testify that this wonderful
wisdom is not his, but ours, is not that of the thinker and penman
in his study, but of priests and kings, ladies and courtiers, lovers
and warriors, knaves and fools.

Paul sees that Moses read his law from tables of the heart. Every wise
word is an echo of the wisdom inarticulate in our neighbors which
sends them confident about their work and play.

The faith of healthy men and women is amazing when we learn how incapable
they are of showing grounds for it. In speculation they hold horrible
theories, blackening the day; yet they trust the good which their lips
unwittingly deny.

In discourse we are moved, not by what a man says, but by what he takes
for granted.

The undertow of power is something unstated to which all his facts and
laws refer.

But our resource seems to be rather a reversion, is not quite available;
we have blood and a beat at the heart, yet it does not circulate
freely, and Nature to every man is a double of himself, so that the
universe seems also cold in extremities, as though there were too
little original life to fill her veins.

The poet is not fire on the hearth to thaw this numbness by foreign
heat. He rubs and rouses us to activity, drags us to the open air,
puts us on a glowing chase, provokes us to race and climb with him till
we also are thoroughly alive. No other gift of his is worth much
beside this hope of reaching his side.

The great know well that all men are approaching their view even in
departing from it, as travellers going from one port turn their backs
on each other here and their faces together toward the antipodal
point: they can leave their discoveries and fame to the race.

There is one object of sight. Every piece of wisdom is no less my thought
because another has found it in my mind.

They said all right, but
before they left they sent one of the grandsons to climb a big tree in
the barnyard, where he tied the demijohn sixty feet from the ground.
Just the same, when they come home that night they found Susan on the
kitchen floor dead to the world."

"And she'd climbed the tree after all," Saxon hazarded, when Billy had
shown no inclination of going on.

"Not on your life," he laughed jubilantly. "All she'd done was to put
a washtub on the ground square under the demijohn. Then she got out her
old rifle an' shot the demijohn to smithereens, an' all she had to do
was lap the whisky outa the tub."

Again Saxon was drowsing, when the rustling sound was heard, this time
closer. To her excited apprehension there was something stealthy about
it, and she imagined a beast of prey creeping upon them. "Billy," she
whispered.

"Yes, I'm a-listenin' to it," came his wide awake answer.

"Mightn't that be a panther, or maybe... a wildcat?"

"It can't be. All the varmints was killed off long ago. This is
peaceable farmin' country."

A vagrant breeze sighed through the trees and made Saxon shiver. The
mysterious cricket-noise ceased with suspicious abruptness. Then, from
the rustling noise, ensued a dull but heavy thump that caused both Saxon
and Billy to sit up in the blankets. There were no further sounds, and
they lay down again, though the very silence now seemed ominous.

"Huh," Billy muttered with relief. "As though I don't know what it was.
It was a rabbit. I've heard tame ones bang their hind feet down on the
floor that way."

In vain Saxon tried to win sleep. The sand grew harder with the passage
of time. Her flesh and her bones ached from contact with it. And, though
her reason flouted any possibility of wild dangers, her fancy went on
picturing them with unflagging zeal.

A new sound commenced. It was neither a rustling nor a rattling, and
it tokened some large body passing through the brush. Sometimes twigs
crackled and broke, and, once, they heard bush-branches press aside and
spring back into place.

"If that other thing was a panther, this is an elephant," was Billy's
uncheering opinion. "It's got weight. Listen to that. An' it's comin'
nearer."

There were frequent stoppages, then the sounds would begin again, always
louder, always closer. Billy sat up in the blankets once more, passing
one arm around Saxon, who had also sat up.

"I ain't slept a wink," he complained. "--There it goes again. I wish I
could see."

"It makes a noise big enough for a grizzly," Saxon chattered, partly
from nervousness, partly from the chill of the night.

"It ain't no grasshopper, that's sure."

Billy started to leave the blankets, but Saxon caught his arm.

"What are you going to do?"

"Oh, I ain't scairt none," he answered. "But, honest to God, this is
gettin' on my nerves. If I don't find what that thing is, it'll give me
the willies. I'm just goin' to reconnoiter. I won't go close."

So intensely dark was the night, that the moment Billy crawled beyond
the reach of her hand he was lost to sight. She sat and waited. The
sound had ceased, though she could follow Billy's progress by the
cracking of dry twigs and limbs. After a few moments he returned and
crawled under the blankets.

"I scared it away, I guess. It's got better ears, an' when it heard me
comin' it skinned out most likely. I did my dangdest, too, not to make a
sound.--O Lord, there it goes again."

They sat up. Saxon nudged Billy.

"There," she warned, in the faintest of whispers. "I can hear it
breathing. It almost made a snort."

A dead branch cracked loudly, and so near at hand, that both of them
jumped shamelessly.

"I ain't goin' to stand any more of its foolin'," Billy declared
wrathfully. "It'll be on top of us if I don't."

"What are you going to do?" she queried anxiously.

"Yell the top of my head off. I'll get a fall outa whatever it is."

He drew a deep breath and emitted a wild yell.

The result far exceeded any expectation he could have entertained, and
Saxon's heart leaped up in sheer panic. On the instant the darkness
erupted into terrible sound and movement. There were trashings
of underbrush and lunges and plunges of heavy bodies in different
directions. Fortunately for their ease of mind, all these sounds receded
and died away.

"An' what d'ye think of that?" Billy broke the silence.

"Gee! all the fight fans used to say I was scairt of nothin'. Just the
same I'm glad they ain't seein' me to-night."

He groaned. "I've got all I want of that blamed sand. I'm goin' to get
up and start the fire."

This was easy. Under the ashes were live embers which quickly ignited
the wood he threw on. A few stars were peeping out in the misty zenith.
He looked up at them, deliberated, and started to move away.

"Where are you going now?" Saxon called.

"Oh, I've got an idea," he replied noncommittally, and walked boldly
away beyond the circle of the firelight.

Saxon sat with the blankets drawn closely under her chin, and admired
his courage. He had not even taken the hatchet, and he was going in the
direction in which the disturbance had died away.

Ten minutes later he came back chuckling.

"The sons-of-guns, they got my goat all right. I'll be scairt of my
own shadow next.--What was they? Huh! You couldn't guess in a thousand
years. A bunch of half-grown calves, an' they was worse scairt than us."

He smoked a cigarette by the fire, then rejoined Saxon under the
blankets.

"A hell of a farmer I'll make," he chafed, "when a lot of little calves
can scare the stuffin' outa me. I bet your father or mine wouldn't
a-batted an eye. The stock has gone to seed, that's what it has."

"No, it hasn't," Saxon defended. "The stock is all right. We're just
as able as our folks ever were, and we're healthier on top of it. We've
been brought up different, that's all. We've lived in cities all our
lives. We know the city sounds and thugs, but we don't know the country
ones. Our training has been unnatural, that's the whole thing in a
nutshell. Now we're going in for natural training. Give us a little
time, and we'll sleep as sound out of doors as ever your father or mine
did."

"But not on sand," Billy groaned.

"We won't try. That's one thing, for good and all, we've learned the
very first time. And now hush up and go to sleep."

Their fears had vanished, but the sand, receiving now their undivided
attention, multiplied its unyieldingness. Billy dozed off first, and
roosters were crowing somewhere in the distance when Saxon's eyes
closed. But they could not escape the sand, and their sleep was fitful.

At the first gray of dawn, Billy crawled out and built a roaring fire.
Saxon drew up to it shiveringly. They were hollow-eyed and weary. Saxon
began to laugh. Billy joined sulkily, then brightened up as his eyes
chanced upon the coffee pot, which he immediately put on to boil.


CHAPTER III

It is forty miles from Oakland to San Jose, and Saxon and Billy
accomplished it in three easy days. No more obliging and angrily
garrulous linemen were encountered, and few were the opportunities for
conversation with chance wayfarers. Numbers of tramps, carrying rolls of
blankets, were met, traveling both north and south on the county road;
and from talks with them Saxon quickly learned that they knew little or
nothing about farming. They were mostly old men, feeble or besotted, and
all they knew was work--where jobs might be good, where jobs had been
good; but the places they mentioned were always a long way off. One
thing she did glean from them, and that was that the district she and
Billy were passing through was "small-farmer" country in which labor was
rarely hired, and that when it was it generally was Portuguese.

The farmers themselves were unfriendly. They drove by Billy and Saxon,
often with empty wagons, but never invited them to ride. When chance
offered and Saxon did ask questions, they looked her over curiously, or
suspiciously, and gave ambiguous and facetious answers.

"They ain't Americans, damn them," Billy fretted. "Why, in the old days
everybody was friendly to everybody."

But Saxon remembered her last talk with her brother.

"It's the spirit of the times, Billy. The spirit has changed. Besides,
these people are too near. Wait till we get farther away from the
cities, then we'll find them more friendly."

"A measly lot these ones are," he sneered.

"Maybe they've a right to be," she laughed. "For all you know, more than
one of the scabs you've slugged were sons of theirs."

"If I could only hope so," Billy said fervently. "But I don't care if I
owned ten thousand acres, any man hikin' with his blankets might be just
as good a man as me, an' maybe better, for all I'd know. I'd give 'm the
benefit of the doubt, anyway."

Billy asked for work, at first, indiscriminately, later, only at the
larger farms. The unvarying reply was that there was no work. A few said
there would be plowing after the first rains. Here and there, in a small
way, dry plowing was going on. But in the main the farmers were waiting.

"But do you know how to plow?" Saxon asked Billy.

"No; but I guess it ain't much of a trick to turn. Besides, next man I
see plowing I'm goin' to get a lesson from."

In the mid-afternoon of the second day his opportunity came. He climbed
on top of the fence of a small field and watched an old man plow round
and round it.

"Aw, shucks, just as easy as easy," Billy commented scornfully. "If an
old codger like that can handle one plow, I can handle two."

"Go on and try it," Saxon urged.

"What's the good?"

"Cold feet," she jeered, but with a smiling face. "All you have to do
is ask him. All he can do is say no. And what if he does? You faced the
Chicago Terror twenty rounds without flinching."

"Aw, but it's different," he demurred, then dropped to the ground inside
the fence. "Two to one the old geezer turns me down."

"No, he won't. Just tell him you want to learn, and ask him if he'll let
you drive around a few times. Tell him it won't cost him anything."

"Huh! If he gets chesty I'll take his blamed plow away from him."

From the top of the fence, but too far away to hear, Saxon watched the
colloquy. After several minutes, the lines were transferred to Billy's
neck, the handles to his hands. Then the team started, and the old man,
delivering a rapid fire of instructions, walked alongside of Billy. When
a few turns had been made, the farmer crossed the plowed strip to Saxon,
and joined her on the rail.

"He's plowed before, a little mite, ain't he?"

Saxon shook her head.

"Never in his life. But he knows how to drive horses."

"He showed he wasn't all greenhorn, an' he learns pretty quick." Here
the farmer chuckled and cut himself a chew from a plug of tobacco. "I
reckon he won't tire me out a-settin' here."

The unplowed area grew smaller and smaller, but Billy evinced no
intention of quitting, and his audience on the fence was deep in
conversation. Saxon's questions flew fast and furious, and she was not
long in concluding that the old man bore a striking resemblance to the
description the lineman had given of his father.

Billy persisted till the field was finished, and the old man invited him
and Saxon to stop for the night. There was a disused outbuilding where
they would find a small cook stove, he said, and also he would give them
fresh milk. Further, if Saxon wanted to test HER desire for farming, she
could try her hand on the cow.

The milking lesson did not prove as successful as Billy's plowing; but
when he had mocked sufficiently, Saxon challenged him to try, and
he failed as grievously as she. Saxon had eyes and questions for
everything, and it did not take her long to realize that she was
looking upon the other side of the farming shield. Farm and farmer were
old-fashioned. There was no intensive cultivation. There was too much
land too little farmed. Everything was slipshod. House and barn and
outbuildings were fast falling into ruin. The front yard was weed-grown.
There was no vegetable garden. The small orchard was old, sickly, and
neglected. The trees were twisted, spindling, and overgrown with a gray
moss. The sons and daughters were away in the cities, Saxon found out.
One daughter had married a doctor, the other was a teacher in the state
normal school; one son was a locomotive engineer, the second was an
architect, and the third was a police court reporter in San Francisco.
On occasion, the father said, they helped out the old folks.

"What do you think?" Saxon asked Billy as he smoked his after-supper
cigarette.

His shoulders went up in a comprehensive shrug.

"Huh! That's easy. The old geezer's like his orchard--covered with moss.
It's plain as the nose on your face, after San Leandro, that he don't
know the first thing. An' them horses. It'd be a charity to him, an' a
savin' of money for him, to take 'em out an' shoot 'em both. You bet you
don't see the Porchugeeze with horses like them. An' it ain't a case of
bein' proud, or puttin' on side, to have good horses. It's brass tacks
an' business. It pays. That's the game. Old horses eat more in young
ones to keep in condition an' they can't do the same amount of work. But
you bet it costs just as much to shoe them. An' his is scrub on top of
it. Every minute he has them horses he's losin' money. You oughta see
the way they work an' figure horses in the city."

They slept soundly, and, after an early breakfast, prepared to start.

"I'd like to give you a couple of days' work," the old man regretted, at
parting, "but I can't see it. The ranch just about keeps me and the old
woman, now that the children are gone. An' then it don't always. Seems
times have been bad for a long spell now. Ain't never been the same
since Grover Cleveland."

Early in the afternoon, on the outskirts of San Jose, Saxon called a
halt.

"I'm going right in there and talk," she declared, "unless they set the
dogs on me. That's the prettiest place yet, isn't it?"

Billy, who was always visioning hills and spacious ranges for his
horses, mumbled unenthusiastic assent.

"And the vegetables! Look at them! And the flowers growing along the
borders! That beats tomato plants in wrapping paper."

"Don't see the sense of it," Billy objected. "Where's the money come
in from flowers that take up the ground that good vegetables might be
growin' on?"

"And that's what I'm going to find out." She pointed to a woman, stooped
to the ground and working with a trowel; in front of the tiny bungalow.
"I don't know what she's like, but at the worst she can only be mean.
See! She's looking at us now. Drop your load alongside of mine, and come
on in."

Billy slung the blankets from his shoulder to the ground, but elected to
wait. As Saxon went up the narrow, flower-bordered walk, she noted two
men at work among the vegetables--one an old Chinese, the other old and
of some dark-eyed foreign breed. Here were neatness, efficiency, and
intensive cultivation with a vengeance--even her untrained eye could see
that. The woman stood up and turned from her flowers, and Saxon saw that
she was middle-aged, slender, and simply but nicely dressed. She wore
glasses, and Saxon's reading of her face was that it was kind but
nervous looking.

"I don't want anything to-day," she said, before Saxon could speak,
administering the rebuff with a pleasant smile.

Saxon groaned inwardly over the black-covered telescope basket.
Evidently the woman had seen her put it down.

"We're not peddling," she explained quickly.

"Oh, I am sorry for the mistake."

This time the woman's smile was even pleasanter, and she waited for
Saxon to state her errand.

Nothing loath, Saxon took it at a plunge.

"We're looking for land. We want to be farmers, you know, and before we
get the land we want to find out what kind of land we want. And seeing
your pretty place has just filled me up with questions. You see, we
don't know anything about farming. We've lived in the city all our life,
and now we've given it up and are going to live in the country and be
happy."

She paused. The woman's face seemed to grow quizzical, though the
pleasantness did not abate.

"But how do you know you will be happy in the country?" she asked.

"I don't know. All I do know is that poor people can't be happy in the
city where they have labor troubles all the time. If they can't be happy
in the country, then there's no happiness anywhere, and that doesn't
seem fair, does it?"

"It is sound reasoning, my dear, as far as it goes. But you must
remember that there are many poor people in the country and many unhappy
people."

"You look neither poor nor unhappy," Saxon challenged.

"You ARE a dear."

Saxon saw the pleased flush in the other's face, which lingered as she
went on.

"But still, I may be peculiarly qualified to live and succeed in the
country. As you say yourself, you've spent your life in the city. You
don't know the first thing about the country. It might even break your
heart."

Saxon's mind went back to the terrible months in the Pine street
cottage.

"I know already that the city will break my heart. Maybe the country
will, too, but just the same it's my only chance, don't you see. It's
that or nothing. Besides, our folks before us were all of the country.
It seems the more natural way. And better, here I am, which proves
that 'way down inside I must want the country, must, as you call it, be
peculiarly qualified for the country, or else I wouldn't be here."

The other nodded approval, and looked at her with growing interest.

"That young man--" she began.

"Is my husband. He was a teamster until the big strike came. My name is
Roberts, Saxon Roberts, and my husband is William Roberts."

"And I am Mrs. Mortimer," the other said, with a bow of acknowledgment.
"I am a widow. And now, if you will ask your husband in, I shall try to
answer some of your many questions. Tell him to put the bundles inside
the gate.. .. And now what are all the questions you are filled with?"

"Oh, all kinds. How does it pay? How did you manage it all? How much did
the land cost? Did you build that beautiful house? How much do you pay
the men? How did you learn all the different kinds of things, and which
grew best and which paid best? What is the best way to sell them? How do
you sell them?" Saxon paused and laughed. "Oh, I haven't begun yet.
Why do you have flowers on the borders everywhere? I looked over the
Portuguese farms around San Leandro, but they never mixed flowers and
vegetables."

Mrs. Mortimer held up her hand. "Let me answer the last first. It is the
key to almost everything."

But Billy arrived, and the explanation was deferred until after his
introduction.

"The flowers caught your eyes, didn't they, my dear?" Mrs. Mortimer
resumed. "And brought you in through my gate and right up to me. And
that's the very reason they were planted with the vegetables--to catch
eyes. You can't imagine how many eyes they have caught, nor how many
owners of eyes they have lured inside my gate. This is a good road, and
is a very popular short country drive for townsfolk. Oh, no; I've never
had any luck with automobiles. They can't see anything for dust. But I
began when nearly everybody still used carriages. The townswomen would
drive by. My flowers, and then my place, would catch their eyes. They
would tell their drivers to stop. And--well, somehow, I managed to be in
the front within speaking distance. Usually I succeeded in inviting them
in to see my flowers... and vegetables, of course. Everything was
sweet, clean, pretty. It all appealed. And--" Mrs. Mortimer shrugged her
shoulders. "It is well known that the stomach sees through the eyes. The
thought of vegetables growing among flowers pleased their fancy. They
wanted my vegetables. They must have them. And they did, at double the
market price, which they were only too glad to pay. You see, I became
the fashion, or a fad, in a small way. Nobody lost. The vegetables were
certainly good, as good as any on the market and often fresher. And,
besides, my customers killed two birds with one stone; for they were
pleased with themselves for philanthropic reasons. Not only did they
obtain the finest and freshest possible vegetables, but at the same time
they were happy with the knowledge that they were helping a deserving
widow-woman. Yes, and it gave a certain tone to their establishments to
be able to say they bought Mrs. Mortimer's vegetables. But that's
too big a side to go into. In short, my little place became a show
place--anywhere to go, for a drive or anything, you know, when time has
to be killed. And it became noised about who I was, and who my
husband had been, what I had been. Some of the townsladies I had known
personally in the old days. They actually worked for my success. And
then, too, I used to serve tea. My patrons became my guests for the time
being. I still serve it, when they drive out to show me off to their
friends. So you see, the flowers are one of the ways I succeeded."

Saxon was glowing with appreciation, but Mrs. Mortimer, glancing at
Billy, noted not entire approval. His blue eyes were clouded.

"Well, out with it," she encouraged. "What are you thinking?"

To Saxon's surprise, he answered directly, and to her double surprise,
his criticism was of a nature which had never entered her head.

"It's just a trick," Billy expounded. "That's what I was gettin' at--"

"But a paying trick," Mrs. Mortimer interrupted, her eyes dancing and
vivacious behind the glasses.

"Yes, and no," Billy said stubbornly, speaking in his slow, deliberate
fashion. "If every farmer was to mix flowers an' vegetables, then every
farmer would get double the market price, an' then there wouldn't be any
double market price. Everything'd be as it was before."

"You are opposing a theory to a fact," Mrs. Mortimer stated. "The fact
is that all the farmers do not do it. The fact is that I do receive
double the price. You can't get away from that."

Billy was unconvinced, though unable to reply.

"Just the same," he muttered, with a slow shake of the head, "I
don't get the hang of it. There's something wrong so far as we're
concerned--my wife an' me, I mean. Maybe I'll get hold of it after a
while."

"And in the meantime, we'll look around," Mrs. Mortimer invited. "I want
to show you everything, and tell you how I make it go. Afterward, we'll
sit down, and I'll tell you about the beginning. You see--" she bent her
gaze on Saxon--"I want you thoroughly to understand that you can succeed
in the country if you go about it right. I didn't know a thing about
it when I began, and I didn't have a fine big man like yours. I was all
alone. But I'll tell you about that."


For the next hour, among vegetables, berry-bushes and fruit trees, Saxon
stored her brain with a huge mass of information to be digested at her
leisure. Billy, too, was interested, but he left the talking to Saxon,
himself rarely asking a question. At the rear of the bungalow, where
everything was as clean and orderly as the front, they were shown
through the chicken yard. Here, in different runs, were kept several
hundred small and snow-white hens.

"White Leghorns," said Mrs. Mortimer. "You have no idea what they netted
me this year. I never keep a hen a moment past the prime of her laying
period--"

"Just what I was tellin' you, Saxon, about horses," Billy broke in.

"And by the simplest method of hatching them at the right time, which
not one farmer in ten thousand ever dreams of doing, I have them laying
in the winter when most hens stop laying and when eggs are highest.
Another thing: I have my special customers. They pay me ten cents a
dozen more than the market price, because my specialty is one-day eggs."

Here she chanced to glance at Billy, and guessed that he was still
wrestling with his problem.

"Same old thing?" she queried.

He nodded. "Same old thing. If every farmer delivered day-old eggs,
there wouldn't be no ten cents higher 'n the top price. They'd be no
better off than they was before."

"But the eggs would be one-day eggs, all the eggs would be one-day eggs,
you mustn't forget that," Mrs. Mortimer pointed out.

"But that don't butter no toast for my wife an' me," he objected. "An'
that's what I've been tryin' to get the hang of, an' now I got it. You
talk about theory an' fact. Ten cents higher than top price is a theory
to Saxon an' me. The fact is, we ain't got no eggs, no chickens, an' no
land for the chickens to run an' lay eggs on."

Their hostess nodded sympathetically.

"An' there's something else about this outfit of yourn that I don't get
the hang of," he pursued. "I can't just put my finger on it, but it's
there all right."

They were shown over the cattery, the piggery, the milkers, and the
kennelry, as Mrs. Mortimer called her live stock departments. None
was large. All were moneymakers, she assured them, and rattled off her
profits glibly. She took their breaths away by the prices given and
received for pedigreed Persians, pedigreed Ohio Improved Chesters,
pedigreed Scotch collies, and pedigreed Jerseys. For the milk of the
last she also had a special private market, receiving five cents more a
quart than was fetched by the best dairy milk. Billy was quick to point
out the difference between the look of her orchard and the look of the
orchard they had inspected the previous afternoon, and Mrs. Mortimer
showed him scores of other differences, many of which he was compelled
to accept on faith.

Then she told them of another industry, her home-made jams and jellies,
always contracted for in advance, and at prices dizzyingly beyond the
regular market. They sat in comfortable rattan chairs on the veranda,
while she told the story of how she had drummed up the jam and jelly
trade, dealing only with the one best restaurant and one best club
in San Jose. To the proprietor and the steward she had gone with her
samples, in long discussions beaten down their opposition, overcome
their reluctance, and persuaded the proprietor, in particular, to make
a "special" of her wares, to boom them quietly with his patrons, and,
above all, to charge stiffly for dishes and courses in which they
appeared.

Throughout the recital Billy's eyes were moody with dissatisfaction.
Mrs. Mortimer saw, and waited.

"And now, begin at the beginning," Saxon begged.

But Mrs. Mortimer refused unless they agreed to stop for supper. Saxon
frowned Billy's reluctance away, and accepted for both of them.

"Well, then," Mrs. Mortimer took up her tale, "in the beginning I was a
greenhorn, city born and bred. All I knew of the country was that it
was a place to go to for vacations, and I always went to springs and
mountain and seaside resorts. I had lived among books almost all my
life. I was head librarian of the Doncaster Library for years. Then
I married Mr. Mortimer. He was a book man, a professor in San Miguel
University. He had a long sickness, and when he died there was nothing
left. Even his life insurance was eaten into before I could be free
of creditors. As for myself, I was worn out, on the verge of nervous
prostration, fit for nothing. I had five thousand dollars left, however,
and, without going into the details, I decided to go farming. I found
this place, in a delightful climate, close to San Jose--the end of the
electric line is only a quarter of a mile on--and I bought it. I paid
two thousand cash, and gave a mortgage for two thousand. It cost two
hundred an acre, you see."

"Twenty acres!" Saxon cried.

"Wasn't that pretty small?" Billy ventured.

"Too large, oceans too large. I leased ten acres of it the first thing.
And it's still leased after all this time. Even the ten I'd retained was
much too large for a long, long time. It's only now that I'm beginning
to feel a tiny mite crowded."

"And ten acres has supported you an' two hired men?" Billy demanded,
amazed.

Mrs. Mortimer clapped her hands delightedly.

"Listen. I had been a librarian. I knew my way among books. First of all
I'd read everything written on the subject, and subscribed to some of
the best farm magazines and papers. And you ask if my ten acres have
supported me and two hired men. Let me tell you. I have four hired men.
The ten acres certainly must support them, as it supports Hannah--she's
a Swedish widow who runs the house and who is a perfect Trojan during
the jam and jelly season--and Hannah's daughter, who goes to school
and lends a hand, and my nephew whom I have taken to raise and educate.
Also, the ten acres have come pretty close to paying for the whole
twenty, as well as for this house, and all the outbuildings, and all the
pedigreed stock."

Saxon remembered what the young lineman had said about the Portuguese.

"The ten acres didn't do a bit of it," she cried. "It was your head that
did it all, and you know it."

"And that's the point, my dear. It shows the right kind of person can
succeed in the country. Remember, the soil is generous. But it must be
treated generously, and that is something the old style American farmer
can't get into his head. So it IS head that counts. Even when his
starving acres have convinced him of the need for fertilizing, he can't
see the difference between cheap fertilizer and good fertilizer."

"And that's something I want to know about," Saxon exclaimed. "And I'll
tell you all I know, but, first, you must be very tired. I noticed you
were limping. Let me take you in--never mind your bundles; I'll send
Chang for them."

To Saxon, with her innate love of beauty and charm in all personal
things, the interior of the bungalow was a revelation. Never before
had she been inside a middle class home, and what she saw not only far
exceeded anything she had imagined, but was vastly different from her
imaginings. Mrs. Mortimer noted her sparkling glances which took in
everything, and went out of her way to show Saxon around, doing it
under the guise of gleeful boastings, stating the costs of the different
materials, explaining how she had done things with her own hands, such
as staining the doors, weathering the bookcases, and putting together
the big Mission Morris chair. Billy stepped gingerly behind, and though
it never entered his mind to ape to the manner born, he succeeded in
escaping conspicuous awkwardness, even at the table where he and Saxon
had the unique experience of being waited on in a private house by a
servant.

"If you'd only come along next year," Mrs. Mortimer mourned; "then I
should have had the spare room I had planned--"

"That's all right," Billy spoke up; "thank you just the same. But we'll
catch the electric cars into San Jose an' get a room."

Mrs. Mortimer was still disturbed at her inability to put them up for
the night, and Saxon changed the conversation by pleading to be told
more.

"You remember, I told you I'd paid only two thousand down on the land,"
Mrs. Mortimer complied. "That left me three thousand to experiment with.
Of course, all my friends and relatives prophesied failure. And, of
course, I made my mistakes, plenty of them, but I was saved from still
more by the thorough study I had made and continued to make." She
indicated shelves of farm books and files of farm magazines that lined
the walls. "And I continued to study. I was resolved to be up to
date, and I sent for all the experiment station reports. I went almost
entirely on the basis that whatever the old type farmer did was wrong,
and, do you know, in doing that I was not so far wrong myself. It's
almost unthinkable, the stupidity of the old-fashioned farmers. Oh,
I consulted with them, talked things over with them, challenged
their stereotyped ways, demanded demonstration of their dogmatic and
prejudiced beliefs, and quite succeeded in convincing the last of them
that I was a fool and doomed to come to grief."

"But you didn't! You didn't!"

Mrs. Mortimer smiled gratefully.

"Sometimes, even now, I'm amazed that I didn't. But I came of a
hard-headed stock which had been away from the soil long enough to
gain a new perspective. When a thing satisfied my judgment, I did it
forthwith and downright, no matter how extravagant it seemed. Take the
old orchard. Worthless! Worse than worthless! Old Calkins nearly died
of heart disease when he saw the devastation I had wreaked upon it. And
look at it now. There was an old rattletrap ruin where the bungalow now
stands. I put up with it, but I immediately pulled down the cow barn,
the pigsties, the chicken houses, everything--made a clean sweep. They
shook their heads and groaned when they saw such wanton waste by a widow
struggling to make a living. But worse was to come. They were paralyzed
when I told them the price of the three beautiful O.I.C.'s--pigs, you
know, Chesters--which I bought, sixty dollars for the three, and
only just weaned. Then I hustled the nondescript chickens to market,
replacing them with the White Leghorns. The two scrub cows that came
with the place I sold to the butcher for thirty dollars each, paying
two hundred and fifty for two blue-blooded Jersey heifers... and coined
money on the exchange, while Calkins and the rest went right on with
their scrubs that couldn't give enough milk to pay for their board."

Billy nodded approval.

"Remember what I told you about horses," he reiterated to Saxon; and,
assisted by his hostess, he gave a very creditable disquisition on
horseflesh and its management from a business point of view.

When he went out to smoke Mrs. Mortimer led Saxon into talking about
herself and Billy, and betrayed not the slightest shock when she learned
of his prizefighting and scab-slugging proclivities.

"He's a splendid young man, and good," she assured Saxon. "His face
shows that. And, best of all, he loves you and is proud of you. You
can't imagine how I have enjoyed watching the way he looks at you,
especially when you are talking. He respects your judgment. Why, he
must, for here he is with you on this pilgrimage which is wholly your
idea." Mrs. Mortimer sighed. "You are very fortunate, dear child, very
fortunate. And you don't yet know what a man's brain is. Wait till he is
quite fired with enthusiasm for your project. You will be astounded by
the way he takes hold. You will have to exert yourself to keep up with
him. In the meantime, you must lead. Remember, he is city bred. It will
be a struggle to wean him from the only life he's known."

"Oh, but he's disgusted with the city, too--" Saxon began.

"But not as you are. Love is not the whole of man, as it is of woman.
The city hurt you more than it hurt him. It was you who lost the dear
little babe. His interest, his connection, was no more than casual and
incidental compared with the depth and vividness of yours."

Mrs. Mortimer turned her head to Billy, who was just entering.

"Have you got the hang of what was bothering you?" she asked.

"Pretty close to it," he answered, taking the indicated big Morris
chair. "It's this--"

"One moment," Mrs. Mortimer checked him. "That is a beautiful, big,
strong chair, and so are you, at any rate big and strong, and your
little wife is very weary--no, no; sit down, it's your strength she
needs. Yes, I insist. Open your arms."

And to him she led Saxon, and into his arms placed her. "Now, sir--and
you look delicious, the pair of you--register your objections to my way
of earning a living."

"It ain't your way," Billy repudiated quickly. "Your way's all right.
It's great. What I'm trying to get at is that your way don't fit us.
We couldn't make a go of it your way. Why you had pull--well-to-do
acquaintances, people that knew you'd been a librarian an' your husband
a professor. An' you had...." Here he floundered a moment, seeking
definiteness for the idea he still vaguely grasped. "Well, you had a way
we couldn't have. You were educated, an'... an'--I don't know, I guess
you knew society ways an' business ways we couldn't know."

"But, my dear boy, you could learn what was necessary," she contended.

Billy shook his head.

"No. You don't quite get me. Let's take it this way. Just suppose it's
me, with jam an' jelly, a-wadin' into that swell restaurant like you did
to talk with the top guy. Why, I'd be outa place the moment I stepped
into his office. Worse'n that, I'd feel outa place. That'd make me have
a chip on my shoulder an' lookin' for trouble, which is a poor way to do
business. Then, too, I'd be thinkin' he was thinkin' I was a whole lot
of a husky to be peddlin' jam. What'd happen, I'd be chesty at the drop
of the hat. I'd be thinkin' he was thinkin' I was standin' on my foot,
an' I'd beat him to it in tellin' him he was standin' on HIS foot. Don't
you see? It's because I was raised that way. It'd be take it or leave it
with me, an' no jam sold."

"What you say is true," Mrs. Mortimer took up brightly. "But there is
your wife. Just look at her. She'd make an impression on any business
man. He'd be only too willing to listen to her."

Billy stiffened, a forbidding expression springing into his eyes.

"What have I done now?" their hostess laughed.

"I ain't got around yet to tradin' on my wife's looks," he rumbled
gruffly.

"Right you are. The only trouble is that you, both of you, are fifty
years behind the times. You're old American. How you ever got here in
the thick of modern conditions is a miracle. You're Rip Van Winkles. Who
ever heard, in these degenerate times, of a young man and woman of the
city putting their blankets on their backs and starting out in search of
land? Why, it's the old Argonaut spirit. You're as like as peas in a
pod to those who yoked their oxen and held west to the lands beyond
the sunset. I'll wager your fathers and mothers, or grandfathers and
grandmothers, were that very stock."

Saxon's eyes were glistening, and Billy's were friendly once more. Both
nodded their heads.

"I'm of the old stock myself," Mrs. Mortimer went on proudly.
"My grandmother was one of the survivors of the Donner Party. My
grandfather, Jason Whitney, came around the Horn and took part in
the raising of the Bear Flag at Sonoma. He was at Monterey when John
Marshall discovered gold in Sutter's mill-race. One of the streets in
San Francisco is named after him."

"I know it," Billy put in. "Whitney Street. It's near Russian Hill.
Saxon's mother walked across the Plains."

"And Billy's grandfather and grandmother were massacred by the Indians,"
Saxon contributed. "His father was a little baby boy, and lived with the
Indians, until captured by the whites. He didn't even know his name and
was adopted by a Mr. Roberts."

"Why, you two dear children, we're almost like relatives," Mrs. Mortimer
beamed. "It's a breath of old times, alas! all forgotten in these
fly-away days. I am especially interested, because I've catalogued and
read everything covering those times. You--" she indicated Billy, "you
are historical, or at least your father is. I remember about him. The
whole thing is in Bancroft's History. It was the Modoc Indians. There
were eighteen wagons. Your father was the only survivor, a mere baby
at the time, with no knowledge of what happened. He was adopted by the
leader of the whites."

"That's right," said Billy. "It was the Modocs. His train must have ben
bound for Oregon. It was all wiped out. I wonder if you know anything
about Saxon's mother. She used to write poetry in the early days."

"Was any of it printed?"

"Yes," Saxon answered. "In the old San Jose papers."

"And do you know any of it?"

"Yes, there's one beginning:

"'Sweet as the wind-lute's airy strains Your gentle muse has learned
to sing, And California's boundless plains Prolong the soft notes
echoing.'"

"It sounds familiar," Mrs. Mortimer said, pondering.

"And there was another I remember that began:

"'I've stolen away from the crowd in the groves, Where the nude statues
stand, and the leaves point and shiver,'--

"And it run on like that. I don't understand it all. It was written to
my father--"

"A love poem!" Mrs. Mortimer broke in. "I remember it. Wait a minute....
Da-da-dah, da-da-dah, da-da-dah, da-da--STANDS--

"'In the spray of a fountain, whose seed-amethysts Tremble lightly
a moment on bosom and hands, Then drip in their basin from bosom and
wrists.'

"I've never forgotten the drip of the seed-amethysts, though I don't
remember your mother's name."

"It was Daisy--" Saxon began.

"No; Dayelle," Mrs. Mortimer corrected with quickening recollection.

"Oh, but nobody called her that."

"But she signed it that way. What is the rest?"

"Daisy Wiley Brown."

Mrs. Mortimer went to the bookshelves and quickly returned with a large,
soberly-bound volume.

"It's 'The Story of the Files,'" she explained. "Among other things, all
the good fugitive verse was gathered here from the old newspaper files."
Her eyes running down the index suddenly stopped. "I was right. Dayelle
Wiley Brown. There it is. --Who graces you with courtiers or great
personages, to speak to you out of their coaches, and come home
to your house?

Were you ever so much as look'd upon by a lord or a lady, before I married
you, but on the Easter or Whitsun-holidays? and then out at the
banquetting-house window, when Ned Whiting or George Stone were at the
stake?

TRUE: For Gods sake, let's go stave her off him.

MRS. OTT: Answer me to that. And did not I take you up from thence, in
an old greasy buff-doublet, with points, and green velvet sleeves, out
at the elbows? you forget this.

TRUE: She'll worry him, if we help not in time.

[THEY COME FORWARD.]
MRS. OTT: O, here are some of the gallants! Go to, behave yourself
distinctly, and with good morality: or, I protest, I will take
away your exhibition.

TRUE: By your leave, fair mistress Otter, I will be bold to enter these
gentlemen in your acquaintance.

MRS. OTT: It shall not be obnoxious, or difficil, sir.

TRUE: How does my noble captain? is the bull, bear, and horse in rerum
natura still?

OTT: Sir, sic visum superis.

MRS. OTT: I would you would but intimate them, do. Go your ways in, and
get toasts and butter made for the woodcocks. That's a fit province for
you.

[DRIVES HIM OFF.]
CLER: Alas, what a tyranny is this poor fellow married to!

TRUE: O, but the sport will be anon, when we get him loose.

DAUP: Dares he ever speak?

TRUE: No Anabaptist ever rail'd with the like license: but mark her language
in the mean time, I beseech you.

MRS. OTT: Gentlemen, you are very aptly come.

My cousin, sir Amorous, will be here briefly.

TRUE: In good time lady. Was not sir John Daw here, to ask for him, and
the company?

MRS. OTT: I cannot assure you, master Truewit. Here was a very melancholy
knight in a ruff, that demanded my subject for somebody, a gentleman, I
think.

CLER: Ay, that was he, lady.

MRS. OTT: But he departed straight, I can resolve you.

DAUP: What an excellent choice phrase this lady expresses in.

TRUE: O, sir, she is the only authentical courtier, that is not
naturally bred one, in the city.

MRS.

OTT: You have taken that report upon trust, gentlemen.

TRUE: No, I assure you, the court governs it so, lady, in your
behalf.

MRS. OTT: I am the servant of the court and courtiers, sir.

TRUE: They are rather your idolaters.

MRS. OTT: Not so, sir.

[ENTER CUTBEARD.]
DAUP: How now, Cutbeard?

any cross?

CUT: O, no, sir, omnia bene. 'Twas never better on the hinges; all's
sure. I have so pleased him with a curate, that he's gone to't almost
with the delight he hopes for soon.

DAUP: What is he for a vicar?

CUT: One that has catch'd a cold, sir, and can scarce be heard six
inches off; as if he spoke out of a bulrush that were not pick'd,
or his throat were full of pith: a fine quick fellow, and an excellent
barber of prayers.

I came to tell you, sir, that you might omnem movere lapidem, as they
say, be ready with your vexation.

DAUP: Gramercy, honest Cutbeard!

be thereabouts with thy key, to let us in.

CUT: I will not fail you, sir: ad manum.

[EXIT.]
TRUE: Well, I'll go watch my coaches.

CLER: Do; and we'll send Daw to you, if you meet him not.

[EXIT TRUEWIT.]
MRS. OTT: Is master Truewit gone?

DAUP: Yes, lady, there is some unfortunate business fallen out.

MRS. OTT: So I adjudged by the physiognomy of the fellow that came in;
and I had a dream last night too of a new pageant, and my lady mayoress,
which is always very ominous to me.

I told it my lady Haughty t'other day; when her honour came hither to
see some China stuffs: and she expounded it out of Artemidorus, and I
have found it since very true. It has done me many affronts.

CLER: Your dream, lady?

MRS. OTT: Yes, sir, any thing I do but dream of the city. It stain'd
me a damasque table-cloth, cost me eighteen pound, at one time; and
burnt me a black satin gown, as I stood by the fire, at my lady
Centaure's chamber in the college, another time.

A third time, at the lord's masque, it dropt all my wire and my ruff
with wax candle, that I could not go up to the banquet. A fourth time,
as I was taking coach to go to Ware, to meet a friend, it dash'd me a
new suit all over (a crimson satin doublet, and black velvet skirts)
with a brewer's horse, that I was fain to go in and shift me, and kept
my chamber a leash of days for the anguish of it.

DAUP: These were dire mischances, lady.

CLER: I would not dwell in the city, an 'twere so fatal to me.

MRS. OTT: Yes sir, but I do take advice of my doctor to dream of it as
little as I can.

DAUP: You do well, mistress Otter.

MRS. OTT: Will it please you to enter the house farther, gentlemen?

DAUP: And your favour, lady: but we stay to speak with a knight,
sir John Daw, who is here come.

We shall follow you, lady.

MRS.

OTT: At your own time, sir.

It is my cousin sir Amorous his feast--
DAUP: I know it, lady.

MRS. OTT: And mine together. But it is for his honour, and therefore
I take no name of it, more than of the place.

DAUP: You are a bounteous kinswoman.

MRS. OTT: Your servant, sir.

[EXIT.]
CLER [COMING FORWARD WITH DAW.]: Why, do not you know it, sir John
Daw?

DAW: No, I am a rook if I do.

CLER: I'll tell you then, she's married by this time. And, whereas you
were put in the head, that she was gone with sir Dauphine, I assure
you, sir Dauphine has been the noblest, honestest friend to you,
that ever gentleman of your quality could boast of. He has discover'd
the whole plot, and made your mistress so acknowledging, and indeed so
ashamed of her injury to you, that she desires you to forgive her, and
but grace her wedding with your presence to-day--She is to be married
to a very good fortune, she says, his uncle, old Morose: and she will'd
me in private to tell you, that she shall be able to do you more
favours, and with more security now, than before.

DAW: Did she say so, i'faith?

CLER: Why, what do you think of me, sir John? ask sir Dauphine.

DAUP: Nay, I believe you.--Good sir Dauphine, did she desire me to forgive
her?

CLER: I assure you, sir John, she did.

DAW: Nay, then, I do with all my heart, and I'll be jovial.

CLER: Yes, for look you, sir, this was the injury to you.

La-Foole intended this feast to honour her bridal day, and made you
the property to invite the college ladies, and promise to bring
her:
and then at the time she should have appear'd, as his friend, to have
given you the dor. Whereas now, Sir Dauphine has brought her to a
feeling of it, with this kind of satisfaction, that you shall bring all
the ladies to the place where she is, and be very jovial; and
there, she will have a dinner, which shall be in your name: and so
disappoint La-Foole, to make you good again, and, as it were, a
saver in the main.

DAW: As I am a knight, I honour her; and forgive her heartily.

CLER: About it then presently. Truewit is gone before to confront the
coaches, and to acquaint you with so much, if he meet you.

Join with him, and 'tis well.-- [ENTER SIR AMOROUS LAFOOLE.] See; here
comes your antagonist, but take you no notice, but be very jovial.

LA-F: Are the ladies come, sir John Daw, and your mistress?
[EXIT DAW.] --Sir Dauphine! you are exceeding welcome, and honest
master Clerimont. Where's my cousin? did you see no collegiates,
gentlemen?

DAUP: Collegiates!

do you not hear, sir Amorous, how you are abus'd?

LA-F: How, sir!

CLER: Will you speak so kindly to sir John Daw, that has done you
such an affront?

LA-F: Wherein, gentlemen? let me be a suitor to you to know, I beseech
you!

CLER: Why, sir, his mistress is married to-day to sir Dauphine's uncle,
your cousin's neighbour, and he has diverted all the ladies, and all
your company thither, to frustrate your provision, and stick a
disgrace upon you.

He was here now to have enticed us away from you too: but we told
him his own, I think.

LA-F: Has sir John Daw wrong'd me so inhumanly?

DAUP: He has done it, sir Amorous, most maliciously and treacherously:
but, if youll be ruled by us, you shall quit him, i'faith.

LA-F: Good gentlemen, I'll make one, believe it.

How, I pray?

DAUP: Marry sir, get me your pheasants, and your godwits, and your best
meat, and dish it in silver dishes of your cousin's presently, and
say nothing, but clap me a clean towel about you, like a sewer;
and bare-headed, march afore it with a good confidence, ('tis but
over the way, hard by,) and we'll second you, where you shall set
it on the board, and bid them welcome to't, which shall shew 'tis
yours, and disgrace his preparation utterly: and, for your cousin,
whereas she should be troubled here at home with care of making and
giving welcome, she shall transfer all that labour thither, and be
a principal guest herself, sit rank'd with the college-honours, and
be honour'd, and have her health drunk as often, as bare and as
loud as the best of them.

LA-F: I'll go tell her presently. It shall be done, that's
resolved.

[EXIT.]
CLER: I thought he would not hear it out, but 'twould take him.

DAUP: Well, there be guests and meat now; how shall we do for music?

CLER: The smell of the venison, going through the street, will invite one
noise of fiddlers or other.

DAUP: I would it would call the trumpeters hither!

CLER: Faith, there is hope: they have intelligence of all feasts.
There's good correspondence betwixt them and the London cooks:
'tis twenty to one but we have them.

DAUP: 'Twill be a most solemn day for my uncle, and an excellent fit
of mirth for us.

CLER: Ay, if we can hold up the emulation betwixt Foole and Daw, and
never bring them to expostulate.

DAUP: Tut, flatter them both, as Truewit says, and you may take
their understandings in a purse-net.

They'll believe themselves to be just such men as we make them, neither
more nor less. They have nothing, not the use of their senses, but
by tradition.

[RE-ENTER LA-FOOLE, LIKE A SEWER.]

CLER: See! sir Amorous has his towel on already. Have you persuaded
your cousin?

LA-F: Yes, 'tis very feasible: she'll do any thing she says, rather than
the La-Fooles shall be disgraced.

DAUP: She is a noble kinswoman. It will be such a pestling device, sir
Amorous; it will pound all your enemy's practices to powder, and blow
him up with his own mine, his own train.

LA-F: Nay, we'll give fire, I warrant you.

CLER: But you must carry it privately, without any noise, and take no
notice by any means--
[RE-ENTER CAPTAIN OTTER.]
OTT: Gentlemen, my princess says you shall have all her silver
dishes, festinate: and she's gone to alter her tire a little, and
go with you-- 
CLER: And yourself too, captain Otter?

DAUP: By any means, sir.

OTT: Yes, sir, I do mean it: but I would entreat my cousin sir
Amorous, and you, gentlemen, to be suitors to my princess, that I
may carry my bull and my bear, as well as my horse.

CLER: That you shall do, captain Otter.

LA-F: My cousin will never consent, gentlemen.

DAUP: She must consent, sir Amorous, to reason.

LA-F: Why, she says they are no decorum among ladies.

OTT: But they are decora, and that's better, sir.

CLER: Ay, she must hear argument.

Did not Pasiphae, who was a queen, love a bull?

and was not Calisto, the mother of Arcas, turn'd into a bear, and
made a star, mistress Ursula, in the heavens?

OTT: O lord!

that I could have said as much!

I will have these stories painted in the Bear-garden, ex Ovidii
metamorphosi.

DAUP: Where is your princess, captain? pray, be our leader.

OTT: That I shall, sir.

CLER: Make haste, good sir Amorous.

[EXEUNT.]
SCENE 3.2.

A ROOM IN MOROSE'S HOUSE.

ENTER MOROSE, EPICOENE, PARSON, AND CUTBEARD.

MOR: Sir, there is an angel for yourself, and a brace of angels for
your cold.

Muse not at this manage of my bounty. It is fit we should thank fortune,
double to nature, for any benefit she confers upon us; besides, it is
your imperfection, but my solace.

PAR [SPEAKS AS HAVING A COLD.] I thank your worship; so is it mine,
now.

MOR: What says he, Cutbeard?

CUT: He says, praesto, sir, whensoever your worship needs him, he can
be ready with the like. He got this cold with sitting up late, and
singing catches with cloth-workers.

MOR: No more. I thank him.

PAR: God keep your worship, and give you much joy with your fair
spouse.

--[COUGHS.] uh! uh! uh!

MOR: O, O! stay Cutbeard! let him give me five shillings of my money back.
As it is bounty to reward benefits, so is it equity to mulct injuries.
I will have it.

What says he?

CUT: He cannot change it, sir.

MOR: It must be changed.

CUT [ASIDE TO PARSON.]: Cough again.

MOR: What says he?

CUT: He will cough out the rest, sir.

PAR: Uh, uh, uh!

MOR: Away, away with him! stop his mouth! away! I forgive it.--
[EXIT CUT. THRUSTING OUT THE PAR.]
EPI: Fie, master Morose, that you will use this violence to a man
of the church.

MOR: How!

EPI: It does not become your gravity, or breeding, as you pretend, in
court, to have offer'd this outrage on a waterman, or any more
boisterous creature, much less on a man of his civil coat.

MOR: You can speak then!

EPI: Yes, sir.

MOR: Speak out, I mean.

EPI: Ay, sir.

Why, did you think you had married a statue, or a motion, only? one of
the French puppets, with the eyes turn'd with a wire? or some innocent
out of the hospital, that would stand with her hands thus, and a
plaise mouth, and look upon you?

MOR: O immodesty! a manifest woman! What, Cutbeard!

EPI: Nay, never quarrel with Cutbeard, sir; it is too late now.

I confess it doth bate somewhat of the modesty I had, when I writ simply
maid: but I hope, I shall make it a stock still competent to the estate
and dignity of your wife.

MOR: She can talk!

EPI: Yes, indeed, sir.

[ENTER MUTE.]
MOR: What sirrah! None of my knaves there? where is this impostor,
Cutbeard?

[MUTE MAKES SIGNS.]
EPI: Speak to him, fellow, speak to him! I'll have none of this
coacted, unnatural dumbness in my house, in a family where I
govern.

[EXIT MUTE.]
MOR: She is my regent already! I have married a Penthesilea, a
Semiramis, sold my liberty to a distaff.

[ENTER TRUEWIT.]
TRUE: Where's master Morose?
MOR: Is he come again! Lord have mercy upon me!
TRUE: I wish you all joy, mistress Epicoene, with your grave and
honourable match.
EPI: I return you the thanks, master Truewit, so friendly a wish
deserves.

MOR: She has acquaintance, too!
TRUE: God save you, sir, and give you all contentment in your fair
choice, here! Before, I was the bird of night to you, the owl; but
now I am the messenger of peace, a dove, and bring you the glad
wishes of many friends to the celebration of this good hour.
MOR: What hour, sir?
TRUE: Your marriage hour, sir. I commend your resolution, that,
notwithstanding all the dangers I laid afore you, in the voice of
a night-crow, would yet go on, and be yourself. It shews you are a
man constant to your own ends, and upright to your purposes, that
would not be put off with left-handed cries.
MOR: How should you arrive at the knowledge of so much!
TRUE: Why, did you ever hope, sir, committing the secrecy of it to
a barber, that less then the whole town should know it? you might
as well have told it the conduit, or the bake-house, or the infantry
that follow the court, and with more security. Could your gravity
forget so old and noted a remnant, as lippis et tonsoribus notum?
Well, sir, forgive it yourself now, the fault, and be communicable
with your friends. Here will be three or four fashionable ladies
from the college to visit you presently, and their train of minions
and followers.
MOR: Bar my doors! bar my doors! Where are all my eaters? my mouths
now?-- [ENTER SERVANTS.] Bar up my doors, you varlets!
EPI: He is a varlet that stirs to such an office. Let them stand
open. I would see him that dares move his eyes toward it. Shall I
have a barricado made against my friends, to be barr'd of any
pleasure they can bring in to me with their honourable visitation?
[EXEUNT SER.] 
MOR: O Amazonian impudence!
TRUE: Nay, faith, in this, sir, she speaks but reason: and, methinks,
is more continent than you. Would you go to bed so presently, sir,
afore noon? a man of your head and hair should owe more to that
reverend ceremony, and not mount the marriage-bed like a town-bull,
or a mountain-goat; but stay the due season; and ascend it then
with religion and fear. Those delights are to be steeped in the
humour and silence of the night; and give the day to other open
pleasures, and jollities of feasting, of music, of revels, of
discourse: we'll have all, sir, that may make your Hymen high and
happy.

MOR: O, my torment, my torment!
TRUE: Nay, if you endure the first half hour, sir, so tediously,
and with this irksomness; what comfort or hope can this fair
gentlewoman make to herself hereafter, in the consideration of so
many years as are to come--
MOR: Of my affliction. Good sir, depart, and let her do it alone.
TRUE: I have done, sir.

MOR: That cursed barber.
TRUE: Yes, faith, a cursed wretch indeed, sir.
MOR: I have married his cittern, that's common to all men. Some
plague above the plague-- 
TRUE: All Egypt's ten plagues.
MOR: Revenge me on him!
TRUE: 'Tis very well, sir. If you laid on a curse or two more, I'll
assure you he'll bear them. As, that he may get the pox with seeking
to cure it, sir; or, that while he is curling another man's hair,
his own may drop off; or, for burning some male-bawd's lock, he may
have his brain beat out with the curling-iron.
MOR: No, let the wretch live wretched. May he get the itch, and his
shop so lousy, as no man dare come at him, nor he come at no
man!
TRUE: Ay, and if he would swallow all his balls for pills, let not
them purge him.

MOR: Let his warming pan be ever cold.
TRUE: A perpetual frost underneath it, sir.
MOR: Let him never hope to see fire again.
TRUE: But in hell, sir.
MOR: His chairs be always empty, his scissors rust, and his combs
mould in their cases.
TRUE: Very dreadful that! And may he lose the invention, sir, of
carving lanterns in paper.
MOR: Let there be no bawd carted that year, to employ a bason of
his: but let him be glad to eat his sponge for bread.
TRUE: And drink lotium to it, and much good do him.
MOR: Or, for want of bread--
TRUE: Eat ear-wax, sir. I'll help you. Or, draw his own teeth, and
add them to the lute-string.
MOR: No, beat the old ones to powder, and make bread of them.
TRUE: Yes, make meal of the mill-stones.
MOR: May all the botches and burns that he has cured on others break
out upon him.
TRUE: And he now forget the cure of them in himself, sir: or, if
he do remember it, let him have scraped all his linen into lint
for't, and have not a rag left him to set up with.
MOR: Let him never set up again, but have the gout in his hands for
ever! Now, no more, sir.
TRUE: O, that last was too high set; you might go less with him,
i'faith, and be revenged enough: as, that he be never able to
new-paint his pole-- 
MOR: Good sir, no more, I forgot myself.
TRUE: Or, want credit to take up with a comb-maker--
MOR: No more, sir.
TRUE: Or, having broken his glass in a former despair, fall now
into a much greater, of ever getting another--
MOR: I beseech you, no more.
TRUE: Or, that he never be trusted with trimming of any but
chimney-sweepers-- 
MOR: Sir--
TRUE: Or, may he cut a collier's throat with his razor, by
chance-medley, and yet be hanged for't.
MOR: I will forgive him, rather than hear any more. I beseech you,
sir.
[ENTER DAW, INTRODUCING LADY HAUGHTY, CENTAURE, MAVIS, AND TRUSTY.]
DAW: This way, madam.
MOR: O, the sea breaks in upon me! another flood! an inundation!
I shall be overwhelmed with noise. It beats already at my shores.
I feel an earthquake in my self for't.
DAW: 'Give you joy, mistress.

MOR: Has she servants too!
DAW: I have brought some ladies here to see and know you.
My lady Haughty-- [AS HE PRESENTS THEM SEVERALLY, EPI. KISSES THEM.]
this my lady Centaure--mistress Dol Mavis--mistress Trusty, my lady
Haughty's woman. Where's your husband? let's see him:
can he endure no noise? let me come to him.
MOR: What nomenclator is this!
TRUE: Sir John Daw, sir, your wife's servant, this.
MOR: A Daw, and her servant! O, 'tis decreed, 'tis decreed of me,
an she have such servants.
TRUE: Nay sir, you must kiss the ladies; you must not go away,
now:
they come toward you to seek you out.
HAU: I'faith, master Morose, would you steal a marriage thus, in
the midst of so many friends, and not acquaint us? Well, I'll kiss
you, notwithstanding the justice of my quarrel: you shall give me
leave, mistress, to use a becoming familiarity with your husband.
EPI: Your ladyship does me an honour in it, to let me know he is
so worthy your favour: as you have done both him and me grace to
visit so unprepared a pair to entertain you.
MOR: Compliment! compliment!
EPI: But I must lay the burden of that upon my servant here.
HAU: It shall not need, mistress Morose, we will all bear, rather
than one shall be opprest.
MOR: I know it: and you will teach her the faculty, if she be to
learn it.

[WALKS ASIDE WHILE THE REST TALK APART.]
HAU: Is this the silent woman?
CEN: Nay, she has found her tongue since she was married, master
Truewit says.
HAU: O, master Truewit! 'save you. What kind of creature is your
bride here? she speaks, methinks!Billy chuckled.

"Say, I was so mad I clean forgot my run-around. It's only just
beginnin' to tune up again."

Saxon made him lie down and receive her soothing ministrations.

"There is no use moving till morning," she said. "Then, just as soon
as it's light, we'll catch a car into San Jose, rent a room, get a hot
breakfast, and go to a drug store for the proper stuff for poulticing or
whatever treatment's needed."

"But Benson," Billy demurred.

"I'll telephone him from town. It will only cost five cents. I saw he
had, a wire. And you couldn't plow on account of the rain, even if your
finger was well. Besides, we'll both be mending together. My heel will
be all right by the time it clears up and we can start traveling."


CHAPTER V

Early on Monday morning, three days later, Saxon and Billy took an
electric car to the end of the line, and started a second time for San
Juan. Puddles were standing in the road, but the sun shone from a blue
sky, and everywhere, on the ground, was a faint hint of budding green.
At Benson's Saxon waited while Billy went in to get his six dollars for
the three days' plowing.

"Kicked like a steer because I was quittin'," he told her when he came
back. "He wouldn't listen at first. Said he'd put me to drivin' in a
few days, an' that there wasn't enough good four-horse men to let one go
easily."

"And what did you say?"

"Oh, I just told 'm I had to be movin' along. An' when he tried to argue
I told 'm my wife was with me, an' she was blamed anxious to get along."

"But so are you, Billy."

"Sure, Pete; but just the same I wasn't as keen as you. Doggone it, I
was gettin' to like that plowin'. I'll never be scairt to ask for a job
at it again. I've got to where I savvy the burro, an' you bet I can plow
against most of 'm right now."

An hour afterward, with a good three miles to their credit, they edged
to the side of the road at the sound of an automobile behind them. But
the machine did not pass. Benson was alone in it, and he came to a stop
alongside.

"Where are you bound?" he inquired of Billy, with a quick, measuring
glance at Saxon.

"Monterey--if you're goin' that far," Billy answered with a chuckle.

"I can give you a lift as far as Watsonville. It would take you several
days on shank's mare with those loads. Climb in." He addressed Saxon
directly. "Do you want to ride in front?"

Saxon glanced to Billy.

"Go on," he approved. "It's fine in front.--This is my wife, Mr.
Benson--Mrs. Roberts."

"Oh, ho, so you're the one that took your husband away from me," Benson
accused good humoredly, as he tucked the robe around her.

Saxon shouldered the responsibility and became absorbed in watching him
start the car.

"I'd be a mighty poor farmer if I owned no more land than you'd plowed
before you came to me," Benson, with a twinkling eye, jerked over his
shoulder to Billy.

"I'd never had my hands on a plow but once before," Billy confessed.
"But a fellow has to learn some time."

"At two dollars a day?"

"If he can get some alfalfa artist to put up for it," Billy met him
complacently.

Benson laughed heartily.

"You're a quick learner," he complimented. "I could see that you and
plows weren't on speaking acquaintance. But you took hold right. There
isn't one man in ten I could hire off the county road that could do as
well as you were doing on the third day. But your big asset is that you
know horses. It was half a joke when I told you to take the lines that
morning. You're a trained horseman and a born horseman as well."

"He's very gentle with horses," Saxon said.

"But there's more than that to it," Benson took her up. "Your husband's
got the WAY with him. It's hard to explain. But that's what it is--the
WAY. It's an instinct almost. Kindness is necessary. But GRIP is more
so. Your husband grips his horses. Take the test I gave him with the
four-horse load. It was too complicated and severe. Kindness couldn't
have done it. It took grip. I could see it the moment he started. There
wasn't any doubt in his mind. There wasn't any doubt in the horses. They
got the feel of him. They just knew the thing was going to be done and
that it was up to them to do it. They didn't have any fear, but just
the same they knew the boss was in the seat. When he took hold of those
lines, he took hold of the horses. He gripped them, don't you see. He
picked them up and put them where he wanted them, swung them up and down
and right and left, made them pull, and slack, and back--and they knew
everything was going to come out right. Oh, horses may be stupid, but
they're not altogether fools. They know when the proper horseman has
hold of them, though how they know it so quickly is beyond me."

Benson paused, half vexed at his volubility, and gazed keenly at
Saxon to see if she had followed him. What he saw in her face and eyes
satisfied him, and he added, with a short laugh:

"Horseflesh is a hobby of mine. Don't think otherwise because I am
running a stink engine. I'd rather be streaking along here behind a pair
of fast-steppers. But I'd lose time on them, and, worse than that, I'd
be too anxious about them all the time. As for this thing, why, it has
no nerves, no delicate joints nor tendons; it's a case of let her rip."

The miles flew past and Saxon was soon deep in talk with her host. Here
again, she discerned immediately, was a type of the new farmer. The
knowledge she had picked up enabled her to talk to advantage, and when
Benson talked she was amazed that she could understand so much. In
response to his direct querying, she told him her and Billy's plans,
sketching the Oakland life vaguely, and dwelling on their future
intentions.

Almost as in a dream, when they passed the nurseries at Morgan Hill, she
learned they had come twenty miles, and realized that it was a longer
stretch than they had planned to walk that day. And still the machine
hummed on, eating up the distance as ever it flashed into view.

"I wondered what so good a man as your husband was doing on the road,"
Benson told her.

"Yes," she smiled. "He said you said he must be a good man gone wrong."

"But you see, I didn't know about YOU. Now I understand. Though I must
say it's extraordinary in these days for a young couple like you to pack
your blankets in search of land. And, before I forget it, I want to tell
you one thing." He turned to Billy. "I am just telling your wife that
there's an all-the-year job waiting for you on my ranch. And there's
a tight little cottage of three rooms the two of you can housekeep in.
Don't forget."

Among other things Saxon discovered that Benson had gone through the
College of Agriculture at the University of California--a branch of
learning she had not known existed. He gave her small hope in her search
for government land.

"The only government land left," he informed her, "is what is not good
enough to take up for one reason or another. If it's good land down
there where you're going, then the market is inaccessible. I know no
railroads tap in there."

"Wait till we strike Pajaro Valley," he said, when they had passed
Gilroy and were booming on toward Sargent's. "I'll show you what can be
done with the soil--and not by cow-college graduates but by uneducated
foreigners that the high and mighty American has always sneered at. I'll
show you. It's one of the most wonderful demonstrations in the state."

At Sargent's he left them in the machine a few minutes while he
transacted business.

"Whew! It beats hikin'," Billy said. "The day's young yet and when he
drops us we'll be fresh for a few miles on our own. Just the same,
when we get settled an' well off, I guess I'll stick by horses. They'll
always be good enough for me."

"A machine's only good to get somewhere in a hurry," Saxon agreed. "Of
course, if we got very, very rich--"

"Say, Saxon," Billy broke in, suddenly struck with an idea. "I've
learned one thing. I ain't afraid any more of not gettin' work in the
country. I was at first, but I didn't tell you. Just the same I was dead
leery when we pulled out on the San Leandro pike. An' here, already,
is two places open--Mrs. Mortimer's an' Benson's; an' steady jobs, too.
Yep, a man can get work in the country."

"Ah," Saxon amended, with a proud little smile, "you haven't said it
right. Any GOOD man can get work in the country. The big farmers don't
hire men out of charity."

"Sure; they ain't in it for their health," he grinned.

"And they jump at you. That's because you are a good man. They can see
it with half an eye. Why, Billy, take all the working tramps we've met
on the road already. There wasn't one to compare with you. I looked them
over. They're all weak--weak in their bodies, weak in their heads, weak
both ways."

"Yep, they are a pretty measly bunch," Billy admitted modestly.

"It's the wrong time of the year to see Pajaro Valley," Benson said,
when he again sat beside Saxon and Sargent's was a thing of the past.
"Just the same, it's worth seeing any time. Think of it--twelve thousand
acres of apples! Do you know what they call Pajaro Valley now? New
Dalmatia. We're being squeezed out. We Yankees thought we were smart.
Well, the Dalmatians came along and showed they were smarter. They were
miserable immigrants--poorer than Job's turkey. First, they worked
at day's labor in the fruit harvest. Next they began, in a small way,
buying the apples on the trees. The more money they made the bigger
became their deals. Pretty soon they were renting the orchards on long
leases. And now, they are beginning to buy the land. It won't be long
before they own the whole valley, and the last American will be gone.

"Oh, our smart Yankees! Why, those first ragged Slavs in their first
little deals with us only made something like two and three thousand
per cent. profits. And now they're satisfied to make a hundred per cent.
It's a calamity if their profits sink to twenty-five or fifty per cent."

"It's like San Leandro," Saxon said. "The original owners of the land
are about all gone already. It's intensive cultivation." She liked that
phrase. "It isn't a case of having a lot of acres, but of how much they
can get out of one acre."

"Yes, and more than that," Benson answered, nodding his head
emphatically. "Lots of them, like Luke Scurich, are in it on a large
scale. Several of them are worth a quarter of a million already. I know
ten of them who will average one hundred and fifty thousand each. They
have a WAY with apples. It's almost a gift. They KNOW trees in much
the same way your husband knows horses. Each tree is just as much an
individual to them as a horse is to me. They know each tree, its whole
history, everything that ever happened to it, its every idiosyncrasy.
They have their fingers on its pulse. They can tell if it's feeling as
well to-day as it felt yesterday. And if it isn't, they know why and
proceed to remedy matters for it. They can look at a tree in bloom and
tell how many boxes of apples it will pack, and not only that--they'll
know what the quality and grades of those apples are going to be. Why,
they know each individual apple, and they pick it tenderly, with love,
never hurting it, and pack it and ship it tenderly and with love, and
when it arrives at market, it isn't bruised nor rotten, and it fetches
top price.

"Yes, it's more than intensive. These Adriatic Slavs are long-headed in
business. Not only can they grow apples, but they can sell apples. No
market? What does it matter? Make a market. That's their way, while our
kind let the crops rot knee-deep under the trees. Look at Peter Mengol.
Every year he goes to England, and he takes a hundred carloads of yellow
Newton pippins with him. Why, those Dalmatians are showing Pajaro apples
on the South African market right now, and coining money out of it hand
over fist."

"What do they do with all the money?" Saxon queried.

"Buy the Americans of Pajaro Valley out, of course, as they are already
doing."

"And then?" she questioned.

Benson looked at her quickly.

"Then they'll start buying the Americans out of some other valley. And
the Americans will spend the money and by the second generation start
rotting in the cities, as you and your husband would have rotted if you
hadn't got out."

Saxon could not repress a shudder.--As Mary had rotted, she thought; as
Bert and all the rest had rotted; as Tom and all the rest were rotting.

"Oh, it's a great country," Benson was continuing. "But we're not a
great people. Kipling is right. We're crowded out and sitting on the
stoop. And the worst of it is there's no reason we shouldn't know
better. We're teaching it in all our agricultural colleges, experiment
stations, and demonstration trains. But the people won't take hold, and
the immigrant, who has learned in a hard school, beats them out. Why,
after I graduated, and before my father died--he was of the old school
and laughed at what he called my theories--I traveled for a couple of
years. I wanted to see how the old countries farmed. Oh, I saw.

"We'll soon enter the valley. You bet I saw. First thing, in Japan, the
terraced hillsides. Take a hill so steep you couldn't drive a horse up
it. No bother to them. They terraced it--a stone wall, and good masonry,
six feet high, a level terrace six feet wide; up and up, walls and
terraces, the same thing all the way, straight into the air, walls upon
walls, terraces upon terraces, until I've seen ten-foot walls built to
make three-foot terraces, and twenty-foot walls for four or five feet
of soil they could grow things on. And that soil, packed up the
mountainsides in baskets on their backs!

"Same thing everywhere I went, in Greece, in Ireland, in Dalmatia--I
went there, too. They went around and gathered every bit of soil they
could find, gleaned it and even stole it by the shovelful or handful,
and carried it up the mountains on their backs and built farms--BUILT
them, MADE them, on the naked rock. Why, in France, I've seen hill
peasants mining their stream-beds for soil as our fathers mined the
streams of California for gold. Only our gold's gone, and the peasants'
soil remains, turning over and over, doing something, growing something,
all the time. Now, I guess I'll hush."

"My God!" Billy muttered in awe-stricken tones. "Our folks never done
that. No wonder they lost out."

"There's the valley now," Benson said. "Look at those trees! Look at
those hillsides! That's New Dalmatia. Look at it! An apple paradise!
Look at that soil! Look at the way it's worked!"

It was not a large valley that Saxon saw. But everywhere, across the
flat-lands and up the low rolling hills, the industry of the Dalmatians
was evident. As she looked she listened to Benson.

"Do you know what the old settlers did with this beautiful soil? Planted
the flats in grain and pastured cattle on the hills. And now twelve
thousand acres of it are in apples. It's a regular show place for the
Eastern guests at Del Monte, who run out here in their machines to see
the trees in bloom or fruit. Take Matteo Lettunich--he's one of the
originals. Entered through Castle Garden and became a dish-washer.
When he laid eyes on this valley he knew it was his Klondike. To-day he
leases seven hundred acres and owns a hundred and thirty of his own--the
finest orchard in the valley, and he packs from forty to fifty thousand
boxes of export apples from it every year. And he won't let a soul but a
Dalmatian pick a single apple of all those apples. One day, in a banter,
I asked him what he'd sell his hundred and thirty acres for. He answered
seriously. He told me what it had netted him, year by year, and struck
an average. He told me to calculate the principal from that at six per
cent. I did. It came to over three thousand dollars an acre."

"What are all the Chinks doin' in the Valley?" Billy asked. "Growin'
apples, too?"

Benson shook his head.

"But that's another point where we Americans lose out. There isn't
anything wasted in this valley, not a core nor a paring; and it isn't
the Americans who do the saving. There are fifty-seven apple-evaporating
furnaces, to say nothing of the apple canneries and cider and vinegar
factories. And Mr. John Chinaman owns them. They ship fifteen thousand
barrels of cider and vinegar each year."

"It was our folks that made this country," Billy reflected. "Fought for
it, opened it up, did everything--"

"But develop it," Benson caught him up. "We did our best to destroy it,
as we destroyed the soil of New England." He waved his hand, indicating
some place beyond the hills. "Salinas lies over that way. If you went
through there you'd think you were in Japan. And more than one fat
little fruit valley in California has been taken over by the Japanese.
Their method is somewhat different from the Dalmatians'. First they
drift in fruit picking at day's wages. They give better satisfaction
than the American fruit-pickers, too, and the Yankee grower is glad to
get them. Next, as they get stronger, they form in Japanese unions
and proceed to run the American labor out. Still the fruit-growers are
satisfied. The next step is when the Japs won't pick. The American labor
is gone. The fruit-grower is helpless. The crop perishes. Then in step
the Jap labor bosses. They're the masters already. They contract for
the crop. The fruit-growers are at their mercy, you see. Pretty soon
the Japs are running the valley. The fruit-growers have become absentee
landlords and are busy learning higher standards of living in the cities
or making trips to Europe. Remains only one more step. The Japs buy
them out. They've got to sell, for the Japs control the labor market and
could bankrupt them at will."

"But if this goes on, what is left for us?" asked Saxon.

"What is happening. Those of us who haven't anything rot in the cities.
Those of us who have land, sell it and go to the cities. Some become
larger capitalists; some go into the professions; the rest spend the
money and start rotting when it's gone, and if it lasts their life-time
their children do the rotting for them."

Their long ride was soon over, and at parting Benson reminded Billy of
the steady job that awaited him any time he gave the word.

"I guess we'll take a peep at that government land first," Billy
answered. "Don't know what we'll settle down to, but there's one thing
sure we won't tackle."

"What's that?"

"Start in apple-growin' at three thousan' dollars an acre."

Billy and Saxon, their packs upon the backs, trudged along a hundred
yards. He was the first to break silence.

"An' I tell you another thing, Saxon. We'll never be goin' around
smellin' out an' swipin' bits of soil an' carryin' it up a hill in a
basket. The United States is big yet. I don't care what Benson or any of
'em says, the United States ain't played out. There's millions of acres
untouched an' waitin', an' it's up to us to find 'em."

"And I'll tell you one thing," Saxon said. "We're getting an education.
Tom was raised on a ranch, yet he doesn't know right now as much about
farming conditions as we do. And I'll tell you another thing. The more
I think of it, the more it seems we are going to be disappointed about
that government land."

"Ain't no use believin' what everybody tells you," he protested.

"Oh, it isn't that. It's what I think. I leave it to you. If this land
around here is worth three thousand an acre, why is it that government
land, if it's any good, is waiting there, only a short way off, to be
taken for the asking."

Billy pondered this for a quarter of a mile, but could come to no
conclusion. At last he cleared his throat and remarked:

"Well, we can wait till we see it first, can't we?"

"All right," Saxon agreed. "We'll wait till we see it."


CHAPTER VI

They had taken the direct county road across the hills from Monterey,
instead of the Seventeen Mile Drive around by the coast, so that Carmel
Bay came upon them without any fore-glimmerings of its beauty. Dropping
down through the pungent pines, they passed woods-embowered cottages,
quaint and rustic, of artists and writers, and went on across wind-blown
rolling sandhills held to place by sturdy lupine and nodding with pale
California poppies. Saxon screamed in sudden wonder of delight, then
caught her breath and gazed at the amazing peacock-blue of a breaker,
shot through with golden sunlight, overfalling in a mile-long sweep and
thundering into white ruin of foam on a crescent beach of sand scarcely
less white.

How long they stood and watched the stately procession of breakers,
rising from out the deep and wind-capped sea to froth and thunder at
their feet, Saxon did not know. She was recalled to herself when Billy,
laughing, tried to remove the telescope basket from her shoulders.

"You kind of look as though you was goin' to stop a while," he said. "So
we might as well get comfortable."

"I never dreamed it, I never dreamed it," she repeated, with
passionately clasped hands. "I... I thought the surf at the Cliff House
was wonderful, but it gave no idea of this.--Oh! Look! LOOK! Did you
ever see such an unspeakable color? And the sunlight flashing right
through it! Oh! Oh! Oh!"

At last she was able to take her eyes from the surf and gaze at the
sea-horizon of deepest peacock-blue and piled with cloud-masses, at the
curve of the beach south to the jagged point of rocks, and at the rugged
blue mountains seen across soft low hills, landward, up Carmel Valley.

"Might as well sit down an' take it easy," Billy indulged her. "This is
too good to want to run away from all at once."

Saxon assented, but began immediately to unlace her shoes.

"You ain't a-goin' to?" Billy asked in surprised delight, then began
unlacing his own.

But before they were ready to run barefooted on the perilous fringe
of cream-wet sand where land and ocean met, a new and wonderful thing
attracted their attention. Down from the dark pines and across the
sandhills ran a man, naked save for narrow trunks. He was smooth and
rosy-skinned, cherubic-faced, with a thatch of curly yellow hair, but
his body was hugely thewed as a Hercules'.

"Gee!--must be Sandow," Billy muttered low to Saxon.

But she was thinking of the engraving in her mother's scrapbook and of
the Vikings on the wet sands of England.

The runner passed them a dozen feet away, crossed the wet sand, never
parsing, till the froth wash was to his knees while above him, ten feet
at least, upreared a was of overtopping water. Huge and powerful as
his body had seemed, it was now white and fragile in the face of that
imminent, great-handed buffet of the sea. Saxon gasped with anxiety, and
she stole a look at Billy to note that he was tense with watching.

But the stranger sprang to meet the blow, and, just when it seemed he
must be crushed, he dived into the face of the breaker and disappeared.
The mighty mass of water fell in thunder on the beach, but beyond
appeared a yellow head, one arm out-reaching, and a portion of a
shoulder. Only a few strokes was he able to make are he was come pelted
to dye through another breaker. This was the battle--to win seaward
against the Creep of the shoreward hastening sea. Each time he dived
and was lost to view Saxon caught her breath and clenched her hands.
Sometimes, after the passage of a breaker, they enfold not find him, and
when they did he would be scores of feet away, flung there like a chip
by a smoke-bearded breaker. Often it seemed he must fail and be thrown
upon the beach, but at the end of half an hour he was beyond the outer
edge of the surf and swimming strong, no longer diving, but topping the
waves. Soon he was so far away that only at intervals could they find
the speck of him. That, too, vanished, and Saxon and Billy looked at
each other, she with amazement at the swimmer's valor, Billy with blue
eyes flashing.

"Some swimmer, that boy, some swimmer," he praised. "Nothing
chicken-hearted about him.--Say, I only know tank-swimmin', an'
bay-swimmin', but now I'm goin' to learn ocean-swimmin'. If I could do
that I'd be so proud you couldn't come within forty feet of me. Why,
Saxon, honest to God, I'd sooner do what he done than own a thousan'
farms. Oh, I can swim, too, I'm tellin' you, like a fish--I swum,
one Sunday, from the Narrow Gauge Pier to Sessions' Basin, an' that's
miles--but I never seen anything like that guy in the swimmin' line.
An' I'm not goin' to leave this beach until he comes back.--All by his
lonely out there in a mountain sea, think of it! He's got his nerve all
right, all right."

Saxon and Billy ran barefooted up and down the beach, pursuing each
other with brandished snakes of seaweed and playing like children for
an hour. It was not until they were putting on their shoes that they
sighted the yellow head bearing shoreward. Billy was at the edge of the
surf to meet him, emerging, not white-skinned as he had entered, but red
from the pounding he had received at the hands of the sea.

"You're a wonder, and I just got to hand it to you," Billy greeted him
in outspoken admiration.

"It was a big surf to-day," the young man replied, with a nod of
acknowledgment.

"It don't happen that you are a fighter I never heard of?" Billy
queried, striving to get some inkling of the identity of the physical
prodigy.

The other laughed and shook his head, and Billy could not guess that he
was an ex-captain of a 'Varsity Eleven, and incidentally the father of
a family and the author of many books. He looked Billy over with an eye
trained in measuring freshmen aspirants for the gridiron.

"You're some body of a man," he appreciated. "You'd strip with the best
of them. Am I right in guessing that you know your way about in the
ring?"

Billy nodded. "My name's Roberts."

The swimmer scowled with a futile effort at recollection.

"Bill--Bill Roberts," Billy supplemented.

"Oh, ho!--Not BIG Bill Roberts? Why, I saw you fight, before the
earthquake, in the Mechanic's Pavilion. It was a preliminary to Eddie
Hanlon and some other fellow. You're a two-handed fighter, I remember
that, with an awful wallop, but slow. Yes, I remember, you were slow
that night, but you got your man." He put out a wet hand. "My name's
Hazard--Jim Hazard."

"An' if you're the football coach that was, a couple of years ago, I've
read about you in the papers. Am I right?"

They shook hands heartily, and Saxon was introduced. She felt very small
beside the two young giants, and very proud, withal, that she belonged
to the race that gave them birth. She could only listen to them talk.

"I'd like to put on the gloves with you every day for half an hour,"
Hazard said. "You could teach me a lot. Are you going to stay around
here?"

"No. We're goin' on down the coast, lookin' for land. Just the same, I
could teach you a few, and there's one thing you could teach me--surf
swimmin'."

"I'll swap lessons with you any time," Hazard offered. He turned to
Saxon. "Why don't you stop in Carmel for a while? It isn't so bad."

"It's beautiful," she acknowledged, with a grateful smile, "but--" She
turned and pointed to their packs on the edge of the lupine. "We're on
the tramp, and lookin' for government land."

"If you're looking down past the Sur for it, it will keep," he laughed.
"Well, I've got to run along and get some clothes on. If you come back
this way, look me up. Anybody will tell you where I live. So long."

And, as he had first arrived, he departed, crossing the sandhills on the
run.

Billy followed him with admiring eyes.

"Some boy, some boy," he murmured. "Why, Saxon, he's famous. If I've
seen his face in the papers once, I've seen it a thousand times. An' he
ain't a bit stuck on himself. Just man to man. Say!--I'm beginnin' to
have faith in the old stock again."

They turned their backs on the beach and in the tiny main street bought
meat, vegetables, and half a dozen eggs. Billy had to drag Saxon away
from the window of a fascinating shop where were iridescent pearls of
abalone, set and unset.

"Abalones grow here, all along the coast," Billy assured her; "an' I'll
get you all you want. Low tide's the time."

"My father had a set of cuff-buttons made of abalone shell," she said.
"They were set in pure, soft gold. I haven't thought about them for
years, and I wonder who has them now."

They turned south. Everywhere from among the pines peeped the quaint
pretty houses of the artist folk, and they were not prepared, where the
road dipped to Carmel River, for the building that met their eyes.

"I know what it is," Saxon almost whispered. "It's an old Spanish
Mission. It's the Carmel Mission, of course. That's the way the
Spaniards came up from Mexico, building missions as they came and
converting the Indians."

"Until we chased them out, Spaniards an' Indians, whole kit an'
caboodle," Billy observed with calm satisfaction.

"Just the same, it's wonderful," Saxon mused, gazing at the big,
half-ruined adobe structure. "There is the Mission Dolores, in San
Francisco, but it's smaller than this and not as old."

Hidden from the sea by low hillocks, forsaken by human being and human
habitation, the church of sun-baked clay and straw and chalk-rock stood
hushed and breathless in the midst of the adobe ruins which once had
housed its worshiping thousands. The spirit of the place descended upon
Saxon and Billy, and they walked softly, speaking in whispers, almost
afraid to go in through the open ports. There was neither priest nor
worshiper, yet they found all the evidences of use, by a congregation
which Billy judged must be small from the number of the benches. Inter
they climbed the earthquake-racked belfry, noting the hand-hewn timbers;
and in the gallery, discovering the pure quality of their voices, Saxon,
trembling at her own temerity, softly sang the opening bars of "Jesus
Lover of My Soul." Delighted with the result, she leaned over the
railing, gradually increasing her voice to its full strength as she
sang:

"Jesus, Lover of my soul, Let me to Thy bosom fly, While the nearer
waters roll, While the tempest still is nigh. Hide me, O my Saviour,
hide, Till the storm of life is past; Safe into the haven guide And
receive my soul at last."

Billy leaned against the ancient wall and loved her with his eyes, and,
when she had finished, he murmured, almost in a whisper:

"That was beautiful--just beautiful. An' you ought to a-seen your face
when you sang. It was as beautiful as your voice. Ain't it funny?--I
never think of religion except when I think of you."

They camped in the willow bottom, cooked dinner, and spent the afternoon
on the point of low rocks north of the mouth of the river. They had not
intended to spend the afternoon, but found themselves too fascinated to
turn away from the breakers bursting upon the rocks and from the many
kinds of colorful sea life starfish, crabs, mussels, sea anemones, and,
once, in a rock-pool, a small devilfish that chilled their blood when
it cast the hooded net of its body around the small crabs they tossed
to it. As the tide grew lower, they gathered a mess of mussels--huge
fellows, five and six inches long and bearded like patriarchs. Then,
while Billy wandered in a vain search for abalones, Saxon lay and
dabbled in the crystal-clear water of a roak-pool, dipping up handfuls
of glistening jewels--ground bits of shell and pebble of flashing rose
and blue and green and violet. Billy came back and lay beside her,
lazying in the sea-cool sunshine, and together they watched the sun sink
into the horizon where the ocean was deepest peacock-blue.

She reached out her hand to Billy's and sighed with sheer repletion of
content. It seemed she had never lived such a wonderful day. It was as
if all old dreams were coming true. Such beauty of the world she had
never guessed in her fondest imagining. Billy pressed her hand tenderly.

"What was you thinkin' of?" he asked, as they arose finally to go.

"Oh, I don't know, Billy. Perhaps that it was better, one day like this,
than ten thousand years in Oakland."


CHAPTER VII

They left Carmel River and Carmel Valley behind, and with a rising sun
went south across the hills between the mountains and the sea. The road
was badly washed and gullied and showed little sign of travel.

"It peters out altogether farther down," Billy said. "From there on it's
only horse trails. But I don't see much signs of timber, an' this soil's
none so good. It's only used for pasture--no farmin' to speak of."

The hills were bare and grassy. Only the canyons were wooded, while the
higher and more distant hills were furry with chaparral. Once they saw
a coyote slide into the brush, and once Billy wished for a gun when
a large wildcat stared at them malignantly and declined to run until
routed by a clod of earth that burst about its ears like shrapnel.

Several miles along Saxon complained of thirst. Where the road dipped
nearly at sea level to cross a small gulch Billy looked for water. The
bed of the gulch was damp with hill-drip, and he left her to rest while
he sought a spring.

"Say," he hailed a few minutes afterward. "Come on down. You just gotta
see this. It'll 'most take your breath away."

Saxon followed the faint path that led steeply down through the thicket.
Midway along, where a barbed wire fence was strung high across the mouth
of the gulch and weighted down with big rocks, she caught her first
glimpse of the tiny beach. Only from the sea could one guess its
existence, so completely was it tucked away on three precipitous sides
by the land, and screened by the thicket. Furthermore, the beach was the
head of a narrow rock cove, a quarter of a mile long, up which pent way
the sea roared and was subdued at the last to a gentle pulse of surf.
Beyond the mouth many detached rocks, meeting the full force of the
breakers, spouted foam and spray high in the air. The knees of these
rocks, seen between the surges, were black with mussels. On their
tops sprawled huge sea-lions tawny-wet and roaring in the sun, while
overhead, uttering shrill cries, darted and wheeled a multitude of sea
birds.

The last of the descent, from the barbed wire fence, was a sliding fall
of a dozen feet, and Saxon arrived on the soft dry sand in a sitting
posture.

"Oh, I tell you it's just great," Billy bubbled. "Look at it for a
camping spot. In among the trees there is the prettiest spring you
ever saw. An' look at all the good firewood, an'..." He gazed about and
seaward with eyes that saw what no rush of words could compass. "...
An', an' everything. We could live here. Look at the mussels out
there. An' I bet you we could catch fish. What d'ye say we stop a few
days?--It's vacation anyway--an' I could go back to Carmel for hooks an'
lines."

Saxon, keenly appraising his glowing face, realized that he was indeed
being won from the city.

"An' there ain't no wind here," he was recommending. "Not a breath. An'
look how wild it is. Just as if we was a thousand miles from anywhere."

The wind, which had been fresh and raw across the bare hills, gained no
entrance to the cove; and the beach was warm and balmy, the air sweetly
pungent with the thicket odors. Here and there, in the midst of the
thicket, severe small oak trees and other small trees of which Saxon did
not know the names. Her enthusiasm now vied with Billy's, and, hand in
hand, they started to explore.

"Here's where we can play real Robinson Crusoe," Billy cried, as they
crossed the hard sand from highwater mark to the edge of the water.
"Come on, Robinson. Let's stop over. Of course, I'm your Man Friday, an'
what you say goes."

"But what shall we do with Man Saturday!" She pointed in mock
consternation to a fresh footprint in the sand. "He may be a savage
cannibal, you know."

"No chance. It's not a bare foot but a tennis shoe."

"But a savage could get a tennis shoe from a drowned or eaten sailor,
couldn't hey" she contended.

"But sailors don't wear tennis shoes," was Billy's prompt refutation.

"You know too much for Man Friday," she chided; "but, just the same; if
you'll fetch the packs we'll make camp. Besides, it mightn't have been a
sailor that was eaten. It might have been a passenger."

By the end of an hour a snug camp was completed. The blankets were
spread, a supply of firewood was chopped from the seasoned driftwood,
and over a fire the coffee pot had begun to sing. Saxon called to
Billy, who was improvising a table from a wave-washed plank. She pointed
seaward. On the far point of rocks, naked except for swimming trunks,
stood a man. He was gazing toward them, and they could see his long
mop of dark hair blown by the wind. As he started to climb the rocks
landward Billy called Saxon's attention to the fact that the stranger
wore tennis shoes. In a few minutes he dropped down from the rock to the
beach and walked up to them.

"Gosh!" Billy whispered to Saxon. "He's lean enough, but look at his
muscles. Everybody down here seems to go in for physical culture."

As the newcomer approached, Saxon glimpsed sufficient of his face to
be reminded of the old pioneers and of a certain type of face seen
frequently among the old soldiers: Young though he was--not more than
thirty, she decided--this man had the same long and narrow face, with
the high cheekbones, high and slender forehead, and nose high, lean,
and almost beaked. The lips were thin and sensitive; but the eyes were
different from any she had ever seen in pioneer or veteran or any
man. They were so dark a gray that they seemed brown, and there were a
farness and alertness of vision in them as of bright questing through
profounds of space. In a misty way Saxon felt that she had seen him
before.

"Hello," he greeted. "You ought to be comfortable here." He threw down a
partly filled sack. "Mussels. All I could get. The tide's not low enough
yet."

Saxon heard Billy muffle an ejaculation, and saw painted on his face the
extremest astonishment.

"Well, honest to God, it does me proud to meet you," he blurted out.
"Shake hands. I always said if I laid eyes on you I'd shake.--Say!"

But Billy's feelings mastered him, and, beginning with a choking giggle,
he roared into helpless mirth.

The stranger looked at him curiously across their clasped hands, and
glanced inquiringly to Saxon.

"You gotta excuse me," Billy gurgled, pumping the other's hand up and
down. "But I just gotta laugh. Why, honest to God, I've woke up nights
an' laughed an' gone to sleep again. Don't you recognize 'm, Saxon? He's
the same identical dude say, friend, you're some punkins at a hundred
yards dash, ain't you?"

And then, in a sudden rush, Saxon placed him. He it was who had stood
with Roy Blanchard alongside the automobile on the day she had wandered,
sick and unwitting, into strange neighborhoods. Nor had that day been
the first time she had seen him.

"Remember the Bricklayers' Picnic at Weasel Park?" Billy was asking.
"An' the foot race? Why, I'd know that nose of yours anywhere among a
million. You was the guy that stuck your cane between Timothy McManus's
legs an' started the grandest roughhouse Weasel Park or any other park
ever seen."

The visitor now commenced to laugh. He stood on one leg as he laughed
harder, then stood on the other leg. Finally he sat down on a log of
driftwood.

"And you were there," he managed to gasp to Billy at last. "You saw it.
You saw it." He turned to Saxon. "--And you?"

She nodded.

"Say," Billy began again, as their laughter eased down, "what I wants
know is what'd you wanta do it for. Say, what'd you wants do it for?
I've been askin' that to myself ever since."

"So have I," was the answer.

"You didn't know Timothy McManus, did you?"

"No; I'd never seen him before, and I've never seen him since."

"But what'd you wanta do it for?" Billy persisted.

The young man laughed, then controlled himself.

"To save my life, I don't know. I have one friend, a most intelligent
chap that writes sober, scientific books, and he's always aching to
throw an egg into an electric fan to see what will happen. Perhaps
that's the way it was with me, except that there was no aching. When I
saw those legs flying past, I merely stuck my stick in between. I didn't
know I was going to do it. I just did it. Timothy McManus was no more
surprised than I was."

"Did they catch you?" Billy asked.

"Do I look as if they did? I was never so scared in my life. Timothy
McManus himself couldn't have caught me that day. But what happened
afterward? I heard they had a fearful roughhouse, but I couldn't stop to
see."

It was not until a quarter of an hour had passed, during which Billy
described the fight, that introductions took place. Mark Hall was their
visitor's name, and he lived in a bungalow among the Carmel pines.

"But how did you ever find your way to Bierce's Cove?" he was curious to
know. "Nobody ever dreams of it from the road."

"So that's its name?" Saxon said.

"It's the name we gave it. One of our crowd camped here one summer,
and we named it after him. I'll take a cup of that coffee, if you don't
mind."--This to Saxon. "And then I'll show your husband around. Médard,
situated in the twelfth _arrondissement_ of Paris, on the Rue
Mouffetard, not far from the Jardin des Plantes.

To the tomb of one whom they regarded as a martyr to their cause the
Jansenist Appellants habitually resorted, in all the fervor of
religious zeal, heated to enthusiasm by the persecution of the
dominant party.

And there, after a time, phenomena presented themselves, which
caused for years, throughout the French capital and among the
theologians of that age, a fever of excitement; and which, though
they have been noticed by medical and other writers of our own
century, have not yet, in my judgment, attracted, either from the
medical profession or from the pneumatological inquirer, the attention
they deserve.

Of these phenomena a portion were physical, and a portion were
mental or psychological.

The former, first appearing in the early part of the year 1731,
consisted (as alleged) partly of extraordinary cures, the apparent
result of violent convulsive movements which overtook the patients
soon after their bodies touched the marble of the tomb, sometimes
even without approaching it, by swallowing, in wine or water, a
small portion of the earth gathered from around it, the effect being
heightened by strict fasting and prayer,--partly of what were called
the "_Grands Secours_," literally "Great Succors," consisting of
the most desperate, one might say _murderous_, remedies, applied,
at their urgent request, to relieve the sufferings of the Convulsionists.

These measures, called of relief, and carried to an incredible excess,
were of such a character, that, during any normal state of the
human system, they would have destroyed, not one, but a hundred
lives, if the patient, or victim, had been endowed with so many.

Those who regarded this marvellous immunity from what seemed certain
immolation as a miraculous interposition of God were called
_Succorists_; their opponents, ascribing such effects to the
interference of the Devil in protection of his own, or (a somewhat
rare opinion in those days) to natural agency, went by the name of
_Anti-Succorists_.

(_Secouristes_ and _Anti-Secouristes_.)
Some of these alleged cures, but more especially some of these so-called
_succors_, were of a nature so far passing belief, that one would
be tempted to cast them aside as sheer impostures, were not the
main facts vouched for by evidence, not from the Jansenists alone,
but from their bitterest opponents, so direct, so overwhelmingly
multiplied, so minutely circumstantial, that to reject it would
amount to a virtual declaration, that, in proof of the extraordinary
and the improbable, we will accept no testimony whatever, let its
weight or character be what it may.

Accordingly, we find dispassionate modern writers, medical and
others, while reminding us, as well they may, that enlightened
observers of these strange phenomena were lacking,[3] and while
properly suggesting that we ought to make allowance for exaggeration
in some of the details, yet admitting as incontestable realities
the substantial facts related by the historians of St.

Médard.

Among these historians the chief is Carré de Montgéron, a magistrate of
rank and high character, Counsellor of the Parliament of Paris.

An enthusiast, and a weak logician, as hot enthusiasts generally
are, Montgéron's honesty is admitted to be beyond question.

Converted to Jansenism on the seventh of September, 1731, in the church-yard
of St.
Médard, by the strange scenes there passing, he expended his fortune,
sacrificed his liberty, and devoted years of his life, in the
preparation and publication of one of the most extraordinary works
that ever issued from the press.[4] It consists of three quarto
volumes, of some nine hundred closely printed pages each.

Crowded with repetitions, and teeming with false reasoning, these volumes
nevertheless contain, backed by certificates without number, such
an elaborate aggregation of concurrent testimony as I think human
industry never before brought together to prove any contested class
of phenomena.

Not less zealous, if less voluminous, were the writers opposed to what
was called "the work of the convulsions." Of these one of the chief was
Dom La Taste, Bishop of Bethléem, author of the "Lettres Théologiques,"
and of the "Mémoire Théologique," in both of which the extravagances
of the Convulsionists are severely handled; a second was the Abbé
d'Asfeld, who, in 1738, published his "Vains Efforts des Discernans,"
in the same strain; and another, M.

Poncet, who put forth an elaborate reply to the Succorists, entitled
"Réponse des Anti-Secouristes à la Réclamation."

The convulsions, commencing in the year 1731, almost immediately assumed
an epidemical character, spreading so rapidly that in a few months the
affected reached the number of eight hundred. These were to be found
not only on the tomb and in the cemetery itself, but in the streets,
lanes, and houses adjoining.

Many, after returning from the exciting scenes of St. Médard, were
seized with convulsions in their own dwellings.

The numbers and the excitement went on increasing, and conversions
to Jansenism were counted by thousands; the scenes became daily
more extravagant, and the phenomena more extraordinary, until the
King, moved either by the representations of physicians or by the
remonstrances of Jesuit theologians, caused the cemetery to be
closed on the twenty-ninth of January, 1732.[5]
Not for such interdiction, however, did the phenomena, once in
progress, intermit.

For fifteen years, or longer,[6] the symptoms continued, with more
or less violence.

Indeed, the number of Convulsionists greatly increased after the cemetery
was closed, extending to those who had no ailment or bodily infirmity.[7]

The symptoms, though varying in different individuals, were of one
general character, partaking, especially as to the muscular phenomena,
of the nature of hysteria, or hystero-catalepsy. The patient, soon after
being placed on the revered tomb, or on the ground near it, was commonly
attacked by a tumultuous movement of all his members. Contractions
exhibited themselves in the neck, shoulders, and principal muscles all
over the body.

The nervous system became dreadfully excited. The heart beat violently,
and the patient, sometimes retaining partial consciousness and suffering
extreme pain, could not restrain violent cries.

He usually experienced, also, a tingling or pricking sensation in any
diseased member. Those who from birth had been afflicted with paralysis,
or partial paralysis, of a limb, or one side of the body, felt the
convulsions chiefly in that limb or side. The convulsions were often
so violent that numerous assistants could scarcely restrain the patient
from seriously injuring himself by dashing his body or limbs against
the marble.[8]
The Demoiselle Fourcroy, alleged to have been suddenly cured, on
the fourteenth of April, 1732, by means of these convulsions, of a
confirmed anchylosis, which had deformed her left foot, and which
the physicians had pronounced incurable,[9] thus describes, in her
deposition, her sensations:--"They caused me to take wine in which
was some earth from the tomb of M. de Pâris, and I immediately
engaged in prayer, as the commencement of a _neuvaine_" (that is,
a nine-days' act of devotion).

"Almost at the same moment I was seized with a great shuddering, and
soon after with a violent agitation of the members, which caused my
whole body to jerk into the air, and gave me a force I had never before
possessed,--so that the united strength of several persons present could
scarcely restrain me. After a time, in the course of these violent
convulsive movements, I lost all consciousness. As soon as they
passed off, I recovered my senses, and felt a sensation of tranquillity
and internal peace, such as I had never experienced before."[10]
It was usually at the moment of recovery from these convulsions, as
Montgéron alleges and the certificates published by him declare,
that the cures deemed by him miraculous were effected. Sometimes,
however, these cures were gradual only, extending through several
days or weeks.

In Montgéron's work fourteen distinct cures are minutely reported,
all of persons declared by the attendant physicians to be incurable.

Each of these cures, with the documentary evidence in support of it,
occupies from fifty to one hundred pages of his book. The greater number
are cases of paralysis, usually of one entire side of the body, in
some instances complicated with general dropsy, in others with cancer,
in others again with attacks of apoplexy. There are four cases where
the eyesight was restored,--one of them of a lachrymal fistula; one
of a young Spanish nobleman, who suddenly recovered the use of his right
eye, the left, however, remaining uncured; and there is a case in which
a young woman, deaf and dumb from birth, is reported to have been
suddenly and completely cured on the tomb of M. de Pâris, at the moment
the convulsions ceased, immediately repeating, though not understanding,
any word that was spoken to her by the bystanders.

My limits do not permit me to follow Montgéron through the details
and the documentary proof of these cures. That the patient, in each
case, previously examined by some physician of reputation, was
pronounced incurable, does not prove that he was so. Yet, unless
Montgéron lie, some of the cures are inexplicable, upon any received
principles of medical science. One man, (Philippe Sergent,) whose right
knee had shrunk to such a degree that the right leg was, and had
been for more than a year, three finger-breadths shorter than the
left, was, according to the certificates, cured on the spot, threw
away his crutches, and walked home, unaided, followed by a wondering
crowd.

Another patient, (Marguerite Thibault,) affected by general dropsy, and
whose feet and legs were swollen to three times their natural size, is
reported to have been cured so suddenly that before she left the tomb
her servant could put on her feet the same slippers she had worn previously
to her malady.
This woman had also been afflicted, for three years, with paralysis
of the left side, so complete as to deprive it of all power of motion.
Yet she is stated to have raised herself, unaided, on the tomb, to have
walked from the spot, and even to have ascended the stairs of her house
on her return. The symptom immediately preceding her cure is said
to have been "a beneficent heat, which diffused itself over the entire
left side, so long deadly cold." This was followed by a consciousness
of power to move it; and her first effort was to stretch out her paralytic
arm.[11]
But these cures, wonderful as they appear, are far less marvellous
than another class of phenomena already referred to.

The convulsions were often accompanied by an urgent instinctive desire
for certain extreme remedies, sometimes of a frightful character,--as
stretching the limbs with a violence similar to that of the
rack,--administering on the breast, stomach, or other parts of the
body, hundreds of terrible blows with heavy weapons of wood, iron,
or stone,--pressing with main force against various parts of the
body with sharp-pointed swords,--pressure under enormous
weights,--exposure to excessive heat, etc.

Montgéron, viewing the whole as miraculous, says,--"God frequently
causes the convulsionists the most acute pains, and at the same time
intimates to them, by a supernatural instinct, that the formidable succors
which He desires that they should demand will cause all their
sufferings to cease; and these sufferings usually have a sort of
relation to the succors which are to prove a remedy for them.

For instance, an oppression on the breast indicates the necessity for
blows of extreme violence on that part; an excessive cold, or a devouring
heat, when it suddenly seizes a convulsionist, requires that he should
be pushed into the midst of flames; a sharp pang, similar to that
caused by an iron point piercing the flesh, demands a thrust of a
rapier,[12] given in the spot where the pain is felt, be it In the
throat, in the mouth, or in the eyes, of which there are numerous
examples; and let the rapier be pushed as it may, the point, no
matter how sharp, cannot pierce the most tender flesh, not even the
eye of the patient: of this, in my third proposition, I shall adduce
proof the most incontestable

."[13]
To _some_ extent, it would seem, the symptoms themselves, attending the
convulsions, appeared, to the observant physician, to warrant the
propriety of the remedy desired. Montgéron copies a report of a case
made to him, and attested by a gentleman of his acquaintance, a Jansenist,
who had persuaded his cousin, Dr. M----, at that time a distinguished
physician of Paris, and much prejudiced against the Jansenist
movement, to accompany him to a house where there was a young girl
subject to the reigning epidemic.

They found her in a room with twenty or thirty persons, and at the
moment in convulsions.

The assistants agreed to place the case in the hands of the physician,
and he carefully noted the movements of the patient.

"After a time," proceeds the reporter, "he was greatly astonished to
observe a sudden convulsive retraction of all the members. Examining the
patient closely, touching her breast and limbs, he became aware of
a contraction of the nerves, which gradually reached such a degree of
violence that the whole body was disfigured in a frightful manner. His
surprise was extreme, and it was soon changed to alarm, which
induced him to forget his prejudices, and to resort to the very
means he had previously condemned as useless or dangerous.

He caused us to place ourselves, one at the head and one at each hand and
foot, and bade us pull moderately. We did so.

"'Not enough,' he said, with his hand on the patient's breast; 'stronger!'

"We obeyed.

"'Stronger yet!' he exclaimed.

"We told him we were exerting our entire strength.

"'Two, then, to each limb,' he said.

"It was done, (by the aid of long and very strong pieces of cloth-listing,)
but proved insufficient.

"'Three to each!' he cried; 'the child will die; pull with all your
force!

Stronger still!'"
"'We cannot.'"

"'Then four to each!'"
"He was obeyed."
"'Ah, that relieves,' he said; 'the nerves resume their tone; the
symptoms improve.

But do not relax the tension.'"
"Then again, after a pause,--"
"'Strong! stronger! The contractions increase. Put all your strength to
it.'"
Ultimately five persons were assigned to each band; and the nearest
aided themselves by bracing their feet against the bed.

They continued their efforts during half an hour, sometimes
pulling with all their strength, sometimes less strongly, as the
physician observed the contraction of the nerves to increase or
relax.

Finally he ordered the tension to be gradually diminished, in proportion
as the convulsion passed off.

After a time this convulsion was succeeded by another, causing a
sudden and alarming swelling of the chest.

"The girl stood leaning against a wall, and in that position he
caused us, as had been our wont, to press with force on her chest.

This we did, interposing a small cushion composed of listing. At
first, I alone assisted." Then Dr. M---- ordered three, four, five,
ultimately even a greater number of persons, to aid them.

"The convulsion ceased gradually, and in the same proportion he caused us
to diminish the pressure."

"Afterwards the physician, having retired to another room, said to us,
before going away, 'You would be homicides, gentlemen, if you did not
render these succors; for the symptoms require them; and the girl would
die, if you refused them.

There is nothing but what is natural in the relation between
her state and these succors
An' I ain't forgot that you're
goin' to have a saddle animal all to yourself some day--a regular Joe
dandy."

The Abalone Eaters, in two rigs and on a number of horses, descended
in force on Bierce's Cove. There were half a score of men and almost as
many women. All were young, between the ages of twenty-five and forty,
and all seemed good friends. Most of them were married. They arrived in
a roar of good spirits, tripping one another down the slippery trail and
engulfing Saxon and Billy in a comradeship as artless and warm as the
sunshine itself. Saxon was appropriated by the girls--she could not
realize them women; and they made much of her, praising her camping and
traveling equipment and insisting on hearing some of her tale. They were
experienced campers themselves, as she quickly discovered when she saw
the pots and pans and clothes-boilers for the mussels which they had
brought.

In the meantime Billy and the men had undressed and scattered out after
mussels and abalones. The girls lighted on Saxon's ukulele and nothing
would do but she must play and sing. Several of them had been to
Honolulu, and knew the instrument, confirming Mercedes' definition
of ukulele as "jumping flea." Also, they knew Hawaiian songs she had
learned from Mercedes, and soon, to her accompaniment, all were
singing: "Aloha Oe," "Honolulu Tomboy," and "Sweet Lei Lehua." Saxon
was genuinely shocked when some of them, even the more matronly, danced
hulas on the sand.

When the men returned, burdened with sacks of shellfish, Mark Hall, as
high priest, commanded the due and solemn rite of the tribe. At a wave
of his hand, the many poised stones came down in unison on the white
meat, and all voices were uplifted in the Hymn to the Abalone. Old
verses all sang, occasionally some one sang a fresh verse alone,
whereupon it was repeated in chorus. Billy betrayed Saxon by begging her
in an undertone to sing the verse she had made, and her pretty voice was
timidly raised in:

"We sit around and gaily pound, And bear no acrimony Because our
ob--ject is a gob Of sizzling abalone."

"Great!" cried the poet, who had winced at ob--ject. "She speaks the
language of the tribe! Come on, children--now!"

And all chanted Saxon's lines. Then Jim Hazard had a new verse, and one
of the girls, and the Iron Man with the basilisk eyes of greenish-gray,
whom Saxon recognized from Hall's description. To her it seemed he had
the face of a priest.

"Oh! some like ham and some like lamb And some like macaroni; But bring
me in a pail of gin And a tub of abalone.

"Oh! some drink rain and some champagne Or brandy by the pony; But I
will try a little rye With a dash of abalone.

"Some live on hope and some on dope And some on alimony. But our
tom-cat, he lives on fat And tender abalone."

A black-haired, black-eyed man with the roguish face of a satyr, who,
Saxon learned, was an artist who sold his paintings at five hundred
apiece, brought on himself universal execration and acclamation by
singing:

"The more we take, the more they make In deep sea matrimony; Race
suicide cannot betide The fertile abalone."

And so it went, verses new and old, verses without end, all in
glorification of the succulent shellfish of Carmel. Saxon's enjoyment
was keen, almost ecstatic, and she had difficulty in convincing herself
of the reality of it all. It seemed like some fairy tale or book story
come true. Again, it seemed more like a stage, and these the actors, she
and Billy having blundered into the scene in some incomprehensible
way. Much of wit she sensed which she did not understand. Much she did
understand. And she was aware that brains were playing as she had
never seen brains play before. The puritan streak in her training was
astonished and shocked by some of the broadness; but she refused to sit
in judgment. They SEEMED good, these light-hearted young people; they
certainly were not rough or gross as were many of the crowds she had
been with on Sunday picnics. None of the men got drunk, although there
were cocktails in vacuum bottles and red wine in a huge demijohn.

What impressed Saxon most was their excessive jollity, their childlike
joy, and the childlike things they did. This effect was heightened
by the fact that they were novelists and painters, poets and critics,
sculptors and musicians. One man, with a refined and delicate face--a
dramatic critic on a great San Francisco daily, she was told--introduced
a feat which all the men tried and failed at most ludicrously. On the
beach, at regular intervals, planks were placed as obstacles. Then the
dramatic critic, on all fours, galloped along the sand for all the
world like a horse, and for all the world like a horse taking hurdles he
jumped the planks to the end of the course.

Quoits had been brought along, and for a while these were pitched with
zest. Then jumping was started, and game slid into game. Billy took part
in everything, but did not win first place as often as he had expected.
An English writer beat him a dozen feet at tossing the caber. Jim Hazard
beat him in putting the heavy "rock." Mark Hall out-jumped him standing
and running. But at the standing high back-jump Billy did come first.
Despite the handicap of his weight, this victory was due to his splendid
back and abdominal lifting muscles. Immediately after this, however, he
was brought to grief by Mark Hall's sister, a strapping young amazon in
cross-saddle riding costume, who three times tumbled him ignominiously
heels over head in a bout of Indian wrestling.

"You're easy," jeered the Iron Man, whose name they had learned was Pete
Bideaux. "I can put you down myself, catch-as-catch-can."

Billy accepted the challenge, and found in all truth that the other was
rightly nicknamed. In the training camps Billy had sparred and clinched
with giant champions like Jim Jeffries and Jack Johnson, and met the
weight of their strength, but never had he encountered strength like
this of the Iron Man. Do what he could, Billy was powerless, and twice
his shoulders were ground into the sand in defeat.

"You'll get a chance back at him," Hazard whispered to Billy, off at one
side. "I've brought the gloves along. Of course, you had no chance with
him at his own game. He's wrestled in the music halls in London with
Hackenschmidt. Now you keep quiet, and we'll lead up to it in a casual
sort of way. He doesn't know about you."

Soon, the Englishman who had tossed the caber was sparring with the
dramatic critic, Hazard and Hall boxed in fantastic burlesque, then,
gloves in hand, looked for the next appropriately matched couple. The
choice of Bideaux and Billy was obvious.

"He's liable to get nasty if he's hurt," Hazard warned Billy, as he tied
on the gloves for him. "He's old American French, and he's got a devil
of a temper. But just keep your head and tap him--whatever you do, keep
tapping him."

"Easy sparring now"; "No roughhouse, Bideaux"; "Just light tapping, you
know," were admonitions variously addressed to the Iron Man.

"Hold on a second," he said to Billy, dropping his hands. "When I get
rapped I do get a bit hot. But don't mind me. I can't help it, you know.
It's only for the moment, and I don't mean it."

Saxon felt very nervous, visions of Billy's bloody fights and all the
scabs he had slugged rising in her brain; but she had never seen her
husband box, and but few seconds were required to put her at ease. The
Iron Man had no chance. Billy was too completely the master, guarding
every blow, himself continually and almost at will tapping the other's
face and body. There was no weight in Billy's blows, only a light and
snappy tingle; but their incessant iteration told on the Iron Man's
temper. In vain the onlookers warned him to go easy. His face purpled
with anger, and his blows became savage. But Billy went on, tap, tap,
tap, calmly, gently, imperturbably. The Iron Man lost control,
and rushed and plunged, delivering great swings and upper-cuts of
man-killing quality. Billy ducked, side-stepped, blocked, stalled, and
escaped all damage. In the clinches, which were unavoidable, he locked
the Iron Man's arms, and in the clinches the Iron Man invariably laughed
and apologized, only to lose his head with the first tap the instant
they separated and be more infuriated than ever.

And when it was over and Billy's identity had been divulged, the Iron
Man accepted the joke on himself with the best of humor. It had been a
splendid exhibition on Billy's part. His mastery of the sport, coupled
with his self-control, had most favorably impressed the crowd, and
Saxon, very proud of her man boy, could not but see the admiration all
had for him.

Nor did she prove in any way a social failure. When the tired and
sweating players lay down in the dry sand to cool off, she was persuaded
into accompanying their nonsense songs with the ukulele. Nor was it
long, catching their spirit, ere she was singing to them and teaching
them quaint songs of early days which she had herself learned as
a little girl from Cady--Cady, the saloonkeeper, pioneer, and
ax-cavalryman, who had been a bull-whacker on the Salt Intake Trail in
the days before the railroad.

One song which became an immediate favorite was:

"Oh! times on Bitter Creek, they never can be beat, Root hog or die is
on every wagon sheet; The sand within your throat, the dust within your
eye, Bend your back and stand it--root hog or die."

After the dozen verses of "Root Hog or Die," Mark Hall claimed to be
especially infatuated with:

"Obadier, he dreampt a dream, Dreampt he was drivin' a ten-mule team,
But when he woke he heaved a sigh, The lead-mule kicked e-o-wt the
swing-mule's eye."

It was Mark Hall who brought up the matter of Billy's challenge to race
out the south wall of the cove, though he referred to the test as lying
somewhere in the future. Billy surprised him by saying he was ready at
any time. Forthwith the crowd clamored for the race. Hall offered to
bet on himself, but there were no takers. He offered two to one to Jim
Hazard, who shook his head and said he would accept three to one as a
sporting proposition. Billy heard and gritted his teeth.

"I'll take you for five dollars," he said to Hall, "but not at those
odds. I'll back myself even."

"It isn't your money I want; it's Hazard's," Hall demurred. "Though I'll
give either of you three to one."

"Even or nothing," Billy held out obstinately.

Hall finally closed both bets--even with Billy, and three to one with
Hazard.

The path along the knife-edge was so narrow that it was impossible for
runners to pass each other, so it was arranged to time the men, Hall to
go first and Billy to follow after an interval of half a minute.

Hall toed the mark and at the word was off with the form of a sprinter.
Saxon's heart sank. She knew Billy had never crossed the stretch of sand
at that speed. Billy darted forward thirty seconds later, and reached
the foot of the rock when Hall was half way up. When both were on top
and racing from notch to notch, the Iron Man announced that they had
scaled the wall in the same time to a second.

"My money still looks good," Hazard remarked, "though I hope neither of
them breaks a neck. I wouldn't take that run that way for all the gold
that would fill the cove."

"But you'll take bigger chances swimming in a storm on Carmel Beach,"
his wife chided.

"Oh, I don't know," he retorted. "You haven't so far to fall when
swimming."

Billy and Hall had disappeared and were making the circle around the
end. Those on the beach were certain that the poet had gained in the
dizzy spurts of flight along the knife-edge. Even Hazard admitted it.

"What price for my money now?" he cried excitedly, dancing up and down.

Hall had reappeared, the great jump accomplished, and was running
shoreward. But there was no gap. Billy was on his heels, and on his
heels he stayed, in to shore, down the wall, and to the mark on the
beach. Billy had won by half a minute.

"Only by the watch," he panted. "Hall was over half a minute ahead of me
out to the end. I'm not slower than I thought, but he's faster. He's
a wooz of a sprinter. He could beat me ten times outa ten, except for
accident. He was hung up at the jump by a big sea. That's where I caught
'm. I jumped right after 'm on the same sea, then he set the pace home,
and all I had to do was take it."

"That's all right," said Hall. "You did better than beat me. That's the
first time in the history of Bierce's Cove that two men made that jump
on the same sea. And all the risk was yours, coming last."

"It was a fluke," Billy insisted.

And at that point Saxon settled the dispute of modesty and raised a
general laugh by rippling chords on the ukulele and parodying an old
hymn in negro minstrel fashion:

"De Lawd move in er mischievous way His blunders to perform."

In the afternoon Jim Hazard and Hall dived into the breakers and swam
to the outlying rocks, routing the protesting sea-lions and taking
possession of their surf-battered stronghold. Billy followed the
swimmers with his eyes, yearning after them so undisguisedly that Mrs.
Hazard said to him:

"Why don't you stop in Carmel this winter? Jim will teach you all he
knows about the surf. And he's wild to box with you. He works long hours
at his desk, and he really needs exercise."


Not until sunset did the merry crowd carry their pots and pans and
trove of mussels up to the road and depart. Saxon and Billy watched them
disappear, on horses and behind horses, over the top of the first hill,
and then descended hand in hand through the thicket to the camp. Billy
threw himself on the sand and stretched out.

"I don't know when I've been so tired," he yawned. "An' there's one
thing sure: I never had such a day. It's worth livin' twenty years for
an' then some."

He reached out his hand to Saxon, who lay beside him.

"And, oh, I was so proud of you, Billy," she said. "I never saw you box
before. I didn't know it was like that. The Iron Man was at your mercy
all the time, and you kept it from being violent or terrible. Everybody
could look on and enjoy--and they did, too."

"Huh, I want to say you was goin' some yourself. They just took to you.
Why, honest to God, Saxon, in the singin' you was the whole show, along
with the ukulele. All the women liked you, too, an' that's what counts."

It was their first social triumph, and the taste of it was sweet:

"Mr. Hall said he'd looked up the 'Story of the Files,'" Saxon
recounted. "And he said mother was a true poet. He said it was
astonishing the fine stock that had crossed the Plains. He told me a lot
about those times and the people I didn't know. And he's read all about
the fight at Little Meadow. He says he's got it in a book at home, and
if we come back to Carmel he'll show it to me."

"He wants us to come back all right. D'ye know what he said to me,
Saxon t He gave me a letter to some guy that's down on the government
land--some poet that's holdin' down a quarter of a section--so we'll be
able to stop there, which'll come in handy if the big rains catch us.
An'--Oh! that's what I was drivin' at. He said he had a little shack he
lived in while the house was buildin'. The Iron Man's livin' in it now,
but he's goin' away to some Catholic college to study to be a priest,
an' Hall said the shack'd be ours as long as we wanted to use it. An' he
said I could do what the Iron Man was doin' to make a livin'. Hall was
kind of bashful when he was offerin' me work. Said it'd be only odd
jobs, but that we'd make out. I could help'm plant potatoes, he said;
an' he got half savage when he said I couldn't chop wood. That was his
job, he said; an' you could see he was actually jealous over it."

"And Mrs. Hall said just about the same to me, Billy. Carmel wouldn't be
so bad to pass the rainy season in. And then, too, you could go swimming
with Mr. Hazard."

"Seems as if we could settle down wherever we've a mind to," Billy
assented. "Carmel's the third place now that's offered. Well, after
this, no man need be afraid of makin' a go in the country."

"No good man," Saxon corrected.

"I guess you're right." Billy thought for a moment. "Just the same a
dub, too, has a better chance in the country than in the city."

"Who'd have ever thought that such fine people existed?" Saxon pondered.
"It's just wonderful, when you come to think of it."

"It's only what you'd expect from a rich poet that'd trip up a
foot-racer at an Irish picnic," Billy exposited.

"The only crowd such a guy'd run with would be like himself, or he'd
make a crowd that was. I wouldn't wonder that he'd make this crowd. Say,
he's got some sister, if anybody'd ride up on a sea-lion an' ask you.
She's got that Indian wrestlin' down pat, an' she's built for it. An'
say, ain't his wife a beaut?"

A little longer they lay in the warm sand. It was Billy who broke the
silence, and what he said seemed to proceed out of profound meditation.

"Say, Saxon, d'ye know I don't care if I never see movie pictures
again."


CHAPTER IX

Saxon and Billy were gone weeks on the trip south, but in the end they
came back to Carmel. They had stopped with Hafler, the poets in the
Marble House, which he had built with his own hands. This queer dwelling
was all in one room, built almost entirely of white marble. Hailer
cooked, as over a campfire, in the huge marble fireplace, which he used
in all ways as a kitchen. There were divers shelves of books, and the
massive furniture he had made from redwood, as he had made the shakes
for the roof. A blanket, stretched across a corner, gave Saxon privacy.
The poet was on the verge of departing for San Francisco and New York,
but remained a day over with them to explain the country and run over
the government land with Billy. Saxon had wanted to go along that
morning, but Hafler scornfully rejected her, telling her that her legs
were too short. That night, when the men returned, Billy was played out
to exhaustion. He frankly acknowledged that Hafler had walked him into
the ground, and that his tongue had been hanging out from the first
hour. Hafler estimated that they had covered fifty-five miles.

"But such miles!" Billy enlarged. "Half the time up or down, an' 'most
all the time without trails. An' such a pace. He was dead right about
your short legs, Saxon. You wouldn't a-lasted the first mile. An' such
country! We ain't seen anything like it yet."

Hafler left the next day to catch the train at Monterey. He gave them
the freedom of the Marble House, and told them to stay the whole winter
if they wanted. Billy elected to loaf around and rest up that day.
He was stiff and sore. Moreover, he was stunned by the exhibition of
walking prowess on the part of the poet.

"Everybody can do something top-notch down in this country," he
marveled. "Now take that Hafler. He's a bigger man than me, an' a
heavier. An' weight's against walkin', too. But not with him. He's done
eighty miles inside twenty-four hours, he told me, an' once a hundred
an' seventy in three days. Why, he made a show outa me. I felt ashamed
as a little kid."

"Remember, Billy," Saxon soothed him, "every man to his own game. And
down here you're a top-notcher at your own game. There isn't one you're
not the master of with the gloves."

"I guess that's right," he conceded. "But just the same it goes against
the grain to be walked off my legs by a poet--by a poet, mind you."

They spent days in going over the government land, and in the end
reluctantly decided against taking it up. The redwood canyons and great
cliffs of the Santa Lucia Mountains fascinated Saxon; but she remembered
what Hafler had told her of the summer fogs which hid the sun sometimes
for a week or two at a time, and which lingered for months. Then, too,
there was no access to market. It was many miles to where the nearest
wagon road began, at Post's, and from there on, past Point Sur to
Carmel, it was a weary and perilous way. Billy, with his teamster
judgment, admitted that for heavy hauling it was anything but a picnic.
There was the quarry of perfect marble on Hafler's quarter section. He
had said that it would be worth a fortune if near a railroad; but, as it
was, he'd make them a present of it if they wanted it.

Billy visioned the grassy slopes pastured with his horses and cattle,
and found it hard to turn his back; but he listened with a willing ear
to Saxon's argument in favor of a farm-home like the one they had seen
in the moving pictures in Oakland. Yes, he agreed, what they wanted was
an all-around farm, and an all-around farm they would have if they hiked
forty years to find it.

"But it must have redwoods on it," Saxon hastened to stipulate. "I've
fallen in love with them. And we can get along without fog. And there
must be good wagon-roads, and a railroad not more than a thousand miles
away."

Heavy winter rains held them prisoners for two weeks in the Marble
House. Saxon browsed among Hafler's books, though most of them were
depressingly beyond her, while Billy hunted with Hafler's guns. But he
was a poor shot and a worse hunter. His only success was with rabbits,
which he managed to kill on occasions when they stood still. With the
rifle he got nothing, although he fired at half a dozen different deer,
and, once, at a huge cat-creature with a long tail which he was certain
was a mountain lion. Despite the way he grumbled at himself, Saxon could
see the keen joy he was taking. This belated arousal of the hunting
instinct seemed to make almost another man of him. He was out early and
late, compassing prodigious climbs and tramps--once reaching as far as
the gold mines Tom had spoken of, and being away two days.

"Talk about pluggin' away at a job in the city, an' goin' to movie'
pictures and Sunday picnics for amusement!" he would burst out. "I can't
see what was eatin' me that I ever put up with such truck. Here's where
I oughta ben all the time, or some place like it."

He was filled with this new mode of life, and was continually recalling
old hunting tales of his father and telling them to Saxon.

"Say, I don't get stiffened any more after an all-day tramp," he
exulted. "I'm broke in. An' some day, if I meet up with that Hafler,
I'll challenge'm to a tramp that'll break his heart."

"Foolish boy, always wanting to play everybody's game and beat them at
it," Saxon laughed delightedly.

"Aw, I guess you're right," he growled. "Hafler can always out-walk me.
He's made that way. But some day, just the same, if I ever see 'm again,
I'll invite 'm to put on the gloves.. .. though I won't be mean enough
to make 'm as sore as he made me."

After they left Post's on the way back to Carmel, the condition of the
road proved the wisdom of their rejection of the government land. They
passed a rancher's wagon overturned, a second wagon with a broken
axle, and the stage a hundred yards down the mountainside, where it had
fallen, passengers, horses, road, and all.

"I guess they just about quit tryin' to use this road in the winter,"
Billy said. "It's horse-killin' an' man-killin', an' I can just see 'm
freightin' that marble out over it I don't think."

Settling down at Carmel was an easy matter. The Iron Man had already
departed to his Catholic college, and the "shack" turned out to be a
three-roomed house comfortably furnished for housekeeping. "The
country's well enough, if we could clear off some of them trees that
stop a man every way he turns. Did you come up from Lowiza to-day?"
"No; I have only ridden from the mouth of Blackberry, I believe you call
it. I have left a boat and crew there, who will be up in the morning."

"What truck have you got on your boat?"
"Lumber and so forth, and plenty of tools of one sort or other."
"Damn me if I don't believe you're the man who is coming up here to
open the coal mines on Burgess's land!" And the whole crowd gathered
round him.

He laughed good-naturedly.

"Yes, I am coming to live among you. I hope you'll give me a welcome."

There was a cheery sound of welcome from the men, but my father shook
his head.

"We don't like no new-fangled notions, noways, up here, and I'll not say
that I'm glad you're bringing them in; but, at any rate, you're
welcome here to-night."

The young man held out his hand.

"We are to be close neighbors, Squire Boarders, and I hope we shall be
good friends; but I ought to tell you all about myself. Mr. Burgess's
land has been bought by a company, who intend to open the coal mines,
as you know, and I am sent up here as their agent, to make ready for
the miners and the workmen. We shall clear away a little, and put up
some rough shanties, to make our men comfortable before we go to work.
We shall bring a new set of people among you, those Scotch and Welsh
miners; but I believe they are a peaceable set, and we'll try to be
friendly with each other."
The frank speech and the free, open face seemed to mollify my father.

"And how do you call yourself, stranger, when you are at home?"
"My name is George Hammond."
"Well, as I was telling you, you're welcome here to-night, and I don't
know as I've anything against your settling over the river on
Burgess's land.

The people round here have been telling me your coming will be a good thing
for us farmers, because you'll bring us a market for our corn and potatoes;
but I don't see no use of raising more corn than we want for ourselves.
We have enough selling to do with our lumber, and you'll be thinning out
the trees.--But there's my old woman's got her supper ready."
I listened as I waited on the table. The talk varied from farming to
mining and the state of the river, merging at last into the politics
of the country, and through the whole of it I watched the stranger:
noticed how different was his language from anything I had ever heard
before; marked the clear tones of his voice and the distinctness of
his utterance, contrasting with the heavy, thick gutturals, the
running of words into each other, the slovenly drawl of my father
and his men; watched his manner of eating, his neat disposition of
his food on his plate; saw him move his chair back with a slight
expression of annoyance, unmarked by any one else, as Will Foushee
spit on the floor beside him.

All this I observed, in a mood half envious, half sullen,--a mood which
pursued me that night into my little attic, as I peevishly questioned
with myself wherein lay the difference between us.

"Why is this man any better than Will Foushee or Ned Burgess? He is no
stronger nor better able to do a day's work. Why am I afraid of him,
when I don't care an acorn for the others? Why do my father and the
men listen to him and crowd round him? What makes him stand among them
as if he did not belong to them, even when he talks of what they know
better than he? There is not a man round Sandy that could make me feel
as ashamed as that gentleman did when he spoke to me this afternoon.
Is it because he is a gentleman?" And sullenly I resolved that
I would be put down by no airs. I was as good as he, and would show
him to-morrow morning that I felt so. Then came the bitter acknowledgment,
"I am not as good as he is.

I am a stupid, ugly girl, who knows nothing but hateful housework and
a little of the fields and trees; and he,--I suppose he has been to school,
and read plenty of books, and lived among quality." And I cried myself
to sleep before I had made up my mind fully to acknowledge his
superiority.

It was one of my greatest pleasures to get up early.

Our people were not early risers, except when work pressed upon them,
and I often secured my only leisure hour for the day by stealing down
the staircase, out into the woods, by early sunrise, when, wrapped
in an old shawl, and sheltered from the dew by climbing into the lower
branches of my pet maple, I would watch the fog reaching up the opposite
hills, putting forth as it were an arm, by which, stretched far out over
the trees, it seemed to lift itself from the valley,--or perhaps carrying
with me one of the few books which made my library, I would spell
out the sentences and attempt to extract their meaning.

They were a strange medley, my books: some belonging to my step-mother,
and others borrowed or begged from the neighbors, or brought to
me by the men, with whom I was a favorite, and who knew my passion
for reading.

My mother's books were mostly religious: a life of Brainerd, the
missionary, whose adventures roused within me a gleam of religious
enthusiasm; some sermons of the leading Methodist clergy, which,
to her horror, I pronounced stupid; and a torn copy of the "Imitation
of Christ," a book which she threatened to take from me, because
she believed it had something to do with the Papists, but to which,
for that very reason, I clung with a tenacity and read with an
earnestness which brought at last its own beautiful fruits.

Then, there was the "Scottish Chiefs," a treasure-house of delight to
me,--two or three trashy novels, given me by Tom Salyers, of which my
mother knew nothing,--and (the only poetry I had ever seen) a
song-book, which had, scattered among its vulgarisms and puerilities,
some gems of Burns and Moore.

These my natural, unvitiated taste had singled out, and I would croon
them over to myself, set them to a tune of my own composing, and half
sing, half chant them, when at work out-of-doors, till my mother
declared I was going crazy.

This morning I did not read. I sat looking down into the water from my
perch, carrying on the inward discussion of the night before, and wishing
that breakfast-time were come, that I might try my strength and show
that I was not to be put down by any assumption of superiority,
when suddenly a voice near me made me start so that I almost lost my
balance. Mr. Hammond was standing beneath. He laughed, and held out his
hand to help me down; but I sprang past him and was on my way to the
house, when suddenly my brave resolutions came back to my mind,
and I stood still with a feeling of defiance.

I wondered what he would dare to say. Would he tell me how stupid
he thought us all, how like the very pigs we lived? or would he
describe his own grand house and the great places he had seen? I scowled
up sullenly.

"Will you tell me where to find a towel, that I may wash my face here
by the river-side?"
I laughed aloud, and with that laugh fled my sullenness. He looked a
little puzzled, but went on,--
"I went to bed so early that I cannot sleep any longer; and if I could
only find some way of getting across the river, I could get things
under way a little before my men come up."
There were ways, then, in which I could help him,--he was not so
immeasurably above me,--and down went my defiant spirit.

The towel, a crash roller, luckily clean, was brought at once, and, gathering
courage as I stood by and saw him finish his washing, I said,--
"I can scull you over the river in a few minutes, if you will go in
our skiff."
"You? can you manage that shell of a thing? will your father let you take
it, Miss Boarders?"

"My name is Janet Rainsford, and Squire Boarders is not my father," said
I, some of my sullenness returning.

"If you will take me, Janet," said he, with the frank, open-hearted
tone which had won my step-father the night before,--a tone before which
my sullenness melted.

I jumped in, and, letting him pass me before I threw off the rope,
sculled the little dug-out into the middle of the river. No boatman
on the Sandy was more skilful than I in the management of the
little vessel, for in it most of my leisure time had been passed
for the last year or two.

My step-mother had scolded, my father grumbled, and the farmers' wives
and daughters had shaken their heads and "allowed that Janet Rainsford
would come to no good, if she was let fool about here and there, like
a boy." But on that point I was incorrigible; the boat was my one
escape from my daily drudgery, and late at night and early in the morning
I went up and down among the shoals and bars, under the trees and
over the ripples, till every turn of the current was familiar to me.

I knew all the boatmen, too, up and down the river, would pull
along-side their rafts or pushing-boats, and get from them a slice of
their corn-bread or a cup of coffee, or at least a pleasant word or jest.
And none but pleasant words did I ever receive from the rough, but
honorable men whom I met. They respected, as the roughest men
will always do, my lonely girlhood, and felt a sort of pride in
the daring, adventurous spirit that I showed.

My knowledge of the river stood Mr. Hammond in good stead that morning,
as soon as I understood that he was looking for a place where his
men could land easily.

It was only to sweep round a small bluff that jutted into the river, and
carry the skiff into the mouth of Nat's Creek, where the bank sloped
gradually down to the water from a level bit of meadow-land that
extended back some rods before the hills began to rise.

Mr. Hammond leaped out.

"The very place,--and here, on this point, shall be my saw-mill.

I'll run the road through here and up the creek to the mining-ground, and
build my store under the ledge there, and my shanties on each side the
road."
I caught his enthusiasm, and, my shyness all gone, I found myself
listening and suggesting; more than that, I found my suggestions
attended to. I knew the river well; I knew what points of land would
be overflowed in the June rise; I knew how far the backwater would reach
up the creek; I knew the least obstructed paths through the woods;
I could even tell where the most available timber was to be found.

I felt, too, that my knowledge was appreciated. George Hammond had
that one best gift that belongs to all successful leaders, whether of
armies, colonies, or bands of miners: he recognized merit when he saw
it.

From that morning a feeling of self-respect dawned upon me, I was
not so altogether ignorant as I had thought myself, I had some
available knowledge; and with that feeling came the determination
to raise myself out of that slough of despond into which I had
fallen the night before.

From that time a sort of friendship sprang up between George Hammond
and myself.

Every morning I rowed him across the river, and, in the early morning
light, before the workmen were out of bed, he talked over, partly to
himself and partly to me, his plans for the day and his vexations
of the day before, until I began to offer advice and make suggestions,
which made him laughingly call me his little counsellor.

Then in the evenings (he slept at my father's) he would pick up my books
and amuse himself with talking to me about them, laugh at my crude
enthusiasms, clear up some difficult passage, prune away remorselessly
the trash that had crept into my little collection, until, one day,
returning from Cincinnati, where business had called him, he brought
with him a store of books inexhaustible to my inexperienced eyes,
and declared himself my teacher for the winter.

"Never mind Janet's knitting and mending, Mrs. Boarders," said he, in
reply to my mother's complaints; "she is a smart girl, and may be
a school-mistress yet, and earn more money than any woman on Sandy."

"But I am afraid," my step-mother answered, "that the books she reads
are not godly, and have no grace in them. They look to me like
players' trash.

I've tried to do my duty to Janet," she continued, plaintively; "but
I hope the Lord won't hold me accountable for her headstrong ways."

Meantime, as I read in one of my books, and repeated to myself over
and over again in my fulness of content,--
"How happily the days Of Thalaba went by!"

How rapidly fled that winter, and how soon came the spring, that would
bring me, I thought, new hopes, new interests, new companions!

How changed a scene did I look upon, that bright April morning, when
I went over the river to see that all was in readiness for the boats
from below which were to bring Esther Hammond to her new home! She was
to keep her brother's house; and furniture, books, and pictures,
such as I had never dreamed of, had been sent up by the last-returning
boatmen, all of which I had helped Mr.

Hammond to arrange in the little two-story cottage which stood on the
first rise of the hill behind the store.

A little plat of ground was hedged in with young Osage-orange shrubs, and
within it one of the miners, who had formerly been an under-gardener in
a great house in Scotland, had already prepared some flower-beds
and sodded carefully the little lawn, laying down the walks with
bright-colored tan, which contrasted pleasantly with the lively
green of the grass.

From the gate one might look up and down the road, bordered on one
side by the trees that hung over the river, and on the other by the
miners' houses, one-story cottages, each with its small inclosure,
and showing every degree of cultivation, from the neat vegetable-patch
and whitewashed porch of the Scotch families to the neglected waste
ground and slovenly potato-patch of the Irishmen.

There were some Sandians among the hands, but they never could be
made to take one of the houses prepared for the miners. They lived back
on the creeks, generally on their own lands, raised their corn and
tobacco, cut their lumber, and hunted or rode the country, taking jobs
only when they felt so inclined, but showing themselves fully able
to compete with the best hands both in skill and in endurance, when
they were willing to work.

On the side of the hill across the creek could be seen the entrance
to the mines, and down that hill were passing constantly the cars,
loaded with earth and stone taken from the tunnel, which fell with
a thundering sound into the valley beneath.

Below me was the store, gay with its multifarious goods, which
supplied all the needs of the miners and their wives, from the
garden-tools and seeds for the afternoon-work to the gay-colored
dresses for the Sunday leisure,--where, too, on Saturday night,
whiskey was to be had in exchange for the scrip in which their wages
were paid, and where, sometimes, the noise waxed fast and furious,
till Mr.

Hammond would cut off the supply of liquor, as the readiest means of
stilling the tumult.

On this side the river all was changed.

But as I looked that morning across the stream towards my step-father's
farm, my own home, everything there lay as wild and unimproved as
I had known it since the first day my mother brought me there,
comfortless and disorderly as it was when, child as I was, I could
remember the tears of fatigue and discouragement which she dropped
upon my face as she put me for the first time into my little crib;
but there, too, were still (and my heart exulted as I saw them) the
glorious water-maples, the giant sycamores, and the bright-colored
chestnut-trees, which I had known and loved so long.

Would Miss Hammond see how beautiful they were?

would she praise them as her brother had done? would she listen as
kindly to my rhapsodies about them?

and would she say, as he had said, that I was a poet by nature,
with a poet's quick appreciation of beauty and the poet's gift of
enthusiastic expression?

I could not tell whether Esther Hammond would be to me the friend
her brother had been, with the added blessing, that, being a woman,
I could go freely to her with my deficiencies in sure dependence
upon her aid and sympathy,--or if she would come to stand between
me and him, to take away from me my friend and teacher.

Time alone would show; and meanwhile I must be busy with my preparations,
for the boats were expected at noon, and Mr. Hammond, who had ridden
down to Louisa to meet them, had said that he depended upon me to
have things cheerful and in order when they arrived.

Two hours' hard work saw everything in its place, the furniture
arranged to the best of my ability, but wanting, as I sorely felt,
the touch of a mistress's hand to give it a home-like look.

I had done my best, but what did I know of the arrangement of a lady's
house? I hardly knew the use of half the things I touched. But I _would_
not let my old spirit of discontent creep over me now; so, betaking myself
to the woods, which were full of the loveliest spring flowers, I
brought back such a profusion of violets, spring-beauties, and white
bloodroot-blossoms, that the whole room was brightened with their beauty,
while their faint, delicate perfume filled the air.

"Surely these must please her," I said to myself, as I put the last
saucerful on the table, and stepped back to see the result of my
work.

"They certainly will, Janet," said George Hammond, who had entered
behind me. "How well you have worked, and how pleasant everything
looks! Esther will be so much obliged to you. She is just below,
in the boat. Will you not come with me and help her up the bank?"

But I hung back, bashful and frightened, while he called some of the men
to his assistance, and, hurrying down to the river, landed the boat, and
was presently seen walking toward the house with a lady leaning
upon his arm.

I saw her from the window. A tall, dignified woman, with a face--yes,
beautiful, certainly, for there were the regular features, the
dark eyes, with their straight brows, the heavy, dark hair, parted
over the fair, smooth forehead, but so quiet, so cold, so almost
haughty, that my heart stood still with an undefined alarm.

She came in and sat down in one of the chairs without taking the least
notice of me. Mr. Hammond spoke,--

"This is Janet Rainsford, my little friend that I told you of,
Esther.

I hope you will be as good friends as we have been.

She will show you every beautiful place around the country, and make
you acquainted with the people, too."

Miss Hammond looked at me with a steadiness of gaze under which my eyes
sank.

"I shall not trouble the young person much, since I shall only walk when
you can go with me; and as for the people, it is not necessary for
me to know them, I suppose."

George Hammond bit his lip.

"Janet has taken great pains to put everything in order for us here.
I should hardly know the room, it is so improved since I left it this
morning."
But yours lost,
and mine won, and so you plow in my potato patch."

"I don't see it," Billy contended stoutly. "A man with gumption can win
out to-day--"

"On government land?" Hall asked quickly.

Billy swallowed and acknowledged the stab.

"Just the same he can win out," he reiterated.

"Surely--he can win a job from some other fellow? A young husky with a
good head like yours can win jobs anywhere. But think of the handicaps
on the fellows who lose. How many tramps have you met along the road who
could get a job driving four horses for the Carmel Livery Stabler And
some of them were as husky as you when they were young. And on top of
it all you've got no shout coming. It's a mighty big come-down from
gambling for a continent to gambling for a job."

"Just the same--" Billy recommenced.

"Oh, you've got it in your blood," Hall cut him off cavalierly. "And why
not? Everybody in this country has been gambling for generations. It was
in the air when you were born. You've breathed it all your life. You,
who 've never had a white chip in the game, still go on shouting for it
and capping for it."

"But what are all of us losers to do?" Saxon inquired.

"Call in the police and stop the game," Hall recommended. "It's
crooked."

Saxon frowned.

"Do what your forefathers didn't do," he amplified. "Go ahead and
perfect democracy."

She remembered a remark of Mercedes. "A friend of mine says that
democracy is an enchantment."

"It is--in a gambling joint. There are a million boys in our public
schools right now swallowing the gump of canal boy to President, and
millions of worthy citizens who sleep sound every night in the belief
that they have a say in running the country."

"You talk like my brother Tom," Saxon said, failing to comprehend. "If
we all get into politics and work hard for something better maybe we'll
get it after a thousand years or so. But I want it now." She clenched
her hands passionately. "I can't wait; I want it now."

"But that is just what I've been telling you, my dear girl. That's
what's the trouble with all the losers. They can't wait. They want it
now--a stack of chips and a fling at the game. Well, they won't get it
now. That's what's the matter with you, chasing a valley in the moon.
That's what's the matter with Billy, aching right now for a chance to
win ten cents from me at Pedro cussing wind-chewing under his breath."

"Gee! you'd make a good soap-boxer," commented Billy.

"And I'd be a soap-boxer if I didn't have the spending of my father's
ill-gotten gains. It's none of my affair. Islet them rot. They'd be just
as bad if they were on top. It's all a mess--blind bats, hungry swine,
and filthy buzzards--"

Here Mrs. Hall interferred.

"Now, Mark, you stop that, or you'll be getting the blues."

He tossed his mop of hair and laughed with an effort.

"No I won't," he denied. "I'm going to get ten cents from Billy at a
game of Pedro. He won't have a look in."

Saxon and Billy flourished in the genial human atmosphere of Carmel.
They appreciated in their own estimation. Saxon felt that she was
something more than a laundry girl and the wife of a union teamster.
She was no longer pent in the narrow working class environment of a
Pine street neighborhood. Life had grown opulent. They fared better
physically, materially, and spiritually; and all this was reflected
in their features, in the carriage of their bodies. She knew Billy had
never been handsomer nor in more splendid bodily condition. He swore he
had a harem, and that she was his second wife--twice as beautiful as the
first one he had married. And she demurely confessed to him that Mrs.
Hall and several others of the matrons had enthusiastically admired her
form one day when in for a cold dip in Carmel river. They had got around
her, and called her Venus, and made her crouch and assume different
poses.

Billy understood the Venus reference; for a marble one, with broken
arms, stood in Hall's living room, and the poet had told him the world
worshiped it as the perfection of female form.

"I always said you had Annette Kellerman beat a mile," Billy said; and
so proud was his air of possession that Saxon blushed and trembled, and
hid her hot face against his breast.

The men in the crowd were open in their admiration of Saxon, in an
above-board manner. But she made no mistake. She did not lose her head.
There was no chance of that, for her love for Billy beat more strongly
than ever. Nor was she guilty of over-appraisal. She knew him for what
he was, and loved him with open eyes. He had no book learning, no art,
like the other men. His grammar was bad; she knew that, just as she knew
that he would never mend it. Yet she would not have exchanged him for
any of the others, not even for Mark Hall with the princely heart whom
she loved much in the same way that she loved his wife.

For that matter, she found in Billy a certain health and rightness, a
certain essential integrity, which she prized more highly than all
book learning and bank accounts. It was by virtue of this health, and
rightness, and integrity, that he had beaten Hall in argument the night
the poet was on the pessimistic rampage. Billy had beaten him, not with
the weapons of learning, but just by being himself and by speaking out
the truth that was in him. Best of all, he had not even known that he
had beaten, and had taken the applause as good-natured banter. But Saxon
knew, though she could scarcely tell why; and she would always remember
how the wife of Shelley had whispered to her afterward with shining
eyes: "Oh, Saxon, you must be so happy."

Were Saxon driven to speech to attempt to express what Billy meant to
her, she would have done it with the simple word "man." Always he was
that to her. Always in glowing splendor, that was his connotation--MAN.
Sometimes, by herself, she would all but weep with joy at recollection
of his way of informing some truculent male that he was standing on his
foot. "Get off your foot. You're standin' on it." It was Billy! It was
magnificently Billy. And it was this Billy who loved her. She knew it.
She knew it by the pulse that only a woman knows how to gauge. He loved
her less wildly, it was true; but more fondly, more maturely. It was
the love that lasted--if only they did not go back to the city where the
beautiful things of the spirit perished and the beast bared its fangs.

In the early spring, Mark Hall and his wife went to New York, the two
Japanese servants of the bungalow were dismissed, and Saxon and Billy
were installed as caretakers. Jim Hazard, too, departed on his yearly
visit to Paris; and though Billy missed him, he continued his long swims
out through the breakers. Hall's two saddle horses had been left in his
charge, and Saxon made herself a pretty cross-saddle riding costume
of tawny-brown corduroy that matched the glints in her hair. Billy no
longer worked at odd jobs. As extra driver at the stable he earned more
than they spent, and, in preference to cash, he taught Saxon to ride,
and was out and away with her over the country on all-day trips. A
favorite ride was around by the coast to Monterey, where he taught her
to swim in the big Del Monte tank. They would come home in the evening
across the hills. Also, she took to following him on his early morning
hunts, and life seemed one long vacation.

I pray you, give them us. Let us know your bride's colours, and yours at
least.

CEN: Alas, madam, he has provided none.

MOR: Had I known your ladyship's painter, I would.

HAU: He has given it you, Centaure, i'faith. But do you hear, master
Morose? a jest will not absolve you in this manner. You that have suck'd
the milk of the court, and from thence have been brought up to the
very strong meats and wine, of it; been a courtier from the biggen
to the night-cap, as we may say, and you to offend in such a high
point of ceremony as this, and let your nuptials want all marks of
solemnity! How much plate have you lost to-day, (if you had but
regarded your profit,) what gifts, what friends, through your mere
rusticity!Saxon had warned the Halls by letter that she and Billy intended
starting on their search for the valley in the moon as soon as the first
of summer arrived. Fortunately, the poet was put to no inconvenience,
for Bideaux, the Iron Man with the basilisk eyes, had abandoned his
dreams of priesthood and decided to become an actor. He arrived at
Carmel from the Catholic college in time to take charge of the bungalow.

Much to Saxon's gratification, the crowd was loth to see them depart.
The owner of the Carmel stable offered to put Billy in charge at ninety
dollars a month. Also, he received a similar offer from the stable in
Pacific Grove.

"Whither away," the wild Irish playwright hailed them on the station
platform at Monterey. He was just returning from New York.

"To a valley in the moon," Saxon answered gaily.

He regarded their business-like packs.

"By George!" he cried. "I'll do it! By George! Let me come along." Then
his face fell. "And I've signed the contract," he groaned. "Three acts!
Say, you're lucky. And this time of year, too."


CHAPTER XI

"We hiked into Monterey last winter, but we're ridin' out now, b 'gosh!"
Billy said as the train pulled out and they leaned back in their seats.

They had decided against retracing their steps over the ground already
traveled, and took the train to San Francisco. They had been warned by
Mark Hall of the enervation of the south, and were bound north for their
blanket climate. Their intention was to cross the Bay to Sausalito and
wander up through the coast counties Here, Hall had told them, they
would find the true home of the redwood. But Billy, in the smoking car
for a cigarette, seated himself beside a man who was destined to deflect
them from their course. He was a keen-faced, dark-eyed man, undoubtedly
a Jew; and Billy, remembering Saxon's admonition always to ask
questions, watched his opportunity and started a conversation. It took
but a little while to learn that Gunston was a commission merchant, and
to realize that the content of his talk was too valuable for Saxon to
lose. Promptly, when he saw that the other's cigar was finished, Billy
invited him into the next car to meet Saxon. Billy would have been
incapable of such an act prior to his sojourn in Carmel. That much at
least he had acquired of social facility.

"He's just teen tellin' me about the potato kings, and I wanted him to
tell you," Billy explained to Saxon after the introduction. "Go on and
tell her, Mr. Gunston, about that fan tan sucker that made nineteen
thousan' last year in celery an' asparagus."

"I was just telling your husband about the way the Chinese make things
go up the San Joaquin river. It would be worth your while to go up there
and look around. It's the good season now--too early for mosquitoes.
You can get off the train at Black Diamond or Antioch and travel around
among the big farming islands on the steamers and launches. The fares
are cheap, and you'll find some of those big gasoline boats, like the
Duchess and Princess, more like big steamboats."

"Tell her about Chow Lam," Billy urged.

The commission merchant leaned back and laughed.

"Chow Lam, several years ago, was a broken-down fan tan player. He
hadn't a cent, and his health was going back on him. He had worn out
his back with twenty years' work in the gold mines, washing over the
tailings of the early miners. And whatever he'd made he'd lost at
gambling. Also, he was in debt three hundred dollars to the Six
Companies--you know, they're Chinese affairs. And, remember, this was
only seven years ago--health breaking down, three hundred in debt, and
no trade. Chow Lam blew into Stockton and got a job on the peat lands at
day's wages. It was a Chinese company, down on Middle River, that farmed
celery and asparagus. This was when he got onto himself and took stock
of himself. A quarter of a century in the United States, back not so
strong as it used to was, and not a penny laid by for his return to
China. He saw how the Chinese in the company had done it--saved their
wages and bought a share.

"He saved his wages for two years, and bought one share in a
thirty-share company. That was only five years ago. They leased three
hundred acres of peat land from a white man who preferred traveling
in Europe. Out of the profits of that one share in the first year, he
bought two shares in another company. And in a year more, out of the
three shares, he organized a company of his own. One year of this, with
bad luck, and he just broke even. That brings it up to three years ago.
The following year, bumper crops, he netted four thousand. The next
year it wan five thousand. And last year he cleaned up nineteen thousand
dollars. Pretty good, eh, for old broken-down Chow Lam?"

"My!" was all Saxon could say.

Her eager interest, however, incited the commission merchant to go on.

"Look at Sing Kee--the Potato King of Stockton. I know him well. I've
had more large deals with him and made less money than with any man
I know. He was only a coolie, and he smuggled himself into the United
States twenty years ago. Started at day's wages, then peddled vegetables
in a couple of baskets slung on a stick, and after that opened up a
store in Chinatown in San Francisco. But he had a head on him, and he
was soon onto the curves of the Chinese farmers that dealt at his store.
The store couldn't make money fast enough to suit him. He headed up the
San Joaquin. Didn't do much for a couple of years except keep his eyes
peeled. Then he jumped in and leased twelve hundred acres at seven
dollars an acre."

"My God!" Billy said in an awe-struck voice. "Eight thousan', four
hundred dollars just for rent the first year. I know five hundred acres
I can buy for three dollars an acre."

"Will it grow potatoes?" Gunston asked.

Billy shook his head. "Nor nothin' else, I guess."

All three laughed heartily and the commission merchant resumed:

"That seven dollars was only for the land. Possibly you know what it
costs to plow twelve hundred acres?"

Billy nodded solemnly.

"And he got a hundred and sixty sacks to the acre that year," Gunston
continued. "Potatoes were selling at fifty cents. My father was at the
head of our concern at the time, so I know for a fact. And Sing Kee
could have sold at fifty cents and made money. But did he? Trust a
Chinaman to know the market. They can skin the commission merchants at
it. Sing Kee held on. When 'most everybody else had sold, potatoes began
to climb. He laughed at our buyers when we offered him sixty cents,
seventy cents, a dollar. Do you want to know what he finally did sell
for? One dollar and sixty-five a sack. Suppose they actually cost him
forty cents. A hundred and sixty times twelve hundred... let me see...
twelve times nought is nought and twelve times sixteen is a hundred and
ninety-two... a hundred and ninety-two thousand sacks at a dollar and a
quarter net... four into a hundred and ninety-two is forty-eight, plus,
is two hundred and forty--there you are, two hundred and forty thousand
dollars clear profit on that year's deal."

"An' him a Chink," Billy mourned disconsolately. He turned to Saxon.
"They ought to be some new country for us white folks to go to.
Gosh!--we're settin' on the stoop all right, all right."

"But, of course, that was unusual," Glunston hastened to qualify. "There
was a failure of potatoes in other districts, and a corner, and in some
strange way Sing Kee was dead on. He never made profits like that again.
But he goes ahead steadily. Last year he had four thousand acres in
potatoes, a thousand in asparagus, five hundred in celery and five
hundred in beans. And he's running six hundred acres in seeds. No matter
what happens to one or two crops, he can't lose on all of them."

"I've seen twelve thousand acres of apple trees," Saxon said. "And I'd
like to see four thousand acres in potatoes."

"And we will," Billy rejoined with great positiveness. "It's us for the
San Joaquin. We don't know what's in our country. No wonder we're out on
the stoop."

"You'll find lots of kings up there," Gunston related. "Yep Hong
Lee--they call him 'Big Jim,' and Ah Pock, and Ah Whang, and--then
there's Shima, the Japanese potato king. He's worth several millions.
Lives like a prince."

"Why don't Americans succeed like that?" asked Saxon.

"Because they won't, I guess. There's nothing to stop them except
themselves. I'll tell you one thing, though--give me the Chinese to deal
with. He's honest. His word is as good as his bond. If he says he'll
do a thing, he'll do it. And, anyway, the white man doesn't know how
to farm. Even the up-to-date white farmer is content with one crop at a
time and rotation of crops. Mr. John Chinaman goes him one better, and
grows two crops at one time on the same soil. I've seen it--radishes and
carrots, two crops, sown at one time."

"Which don't stand to reason," Billy objected. "They'd be only a half
crop of each."

"Another guess coming," Gunston jeered. "Carrots have to be thinned when
they're so far along. So do radishes. But carrots grow slow. Radishes
grow fast. The slow-going carrots serve the purpose of thinning the
radishes. And when the radishes are pulled, ready for market, that thins
the carrots, which come along later. You can't beat the Chink."

"Don't see why a white man can't do what a Chink can," protested Billy.

"That sounds all right," Gunston replied. "The only objection is that
the white man doesn't. The Chink is busy all the time, and he keeps
the ground just as busy. He has organization, system. Who ever heard of
white farmers keeping books? The Chink does. No guess work with him. He
knows just where he stands, to a cent, on any crop at any moment. And he
knows the market. He plays both ends. How he does it is beyond me, but
he knows the market better than we commission merchants.

"Then, again, he's patient but not stubborn. Suppose he does make a
mistake, and gets in a crop, and then finds the market is wrong. In such
a situation the white man gets stubborn and hangs on like a bulldog. But
not the Chink. He's going to minimize the losses of that mistake. That
land has got to work, and make money. Without a quiver or a regret, the
moment he's learned his error, he puts his plows into that crop, turns
it under, and plants something else. He has the savve. He can look at a
sprout, just poked up out of the ground, and tell how it's going to turn
out--whether it will head up or won't head up; or if it's going to head
up good, medium, or bad. That's one end. Take the other end. He controls
his crop. He forces it or holds it back with an eye on the market. And
when the market is just right, there's his crop, ready to deliver, timed
to the minute."

The conversation with Gunston lasted hours, and the more he talked of
the Chinese and their farming ways the more Saxon became aware of a
growing dissatisfaction. She did not question the facts. The trouble was
that they were not alluring. Somehow, she could not find place for them
in her valley of the moon. It was not until the genial Jew left the
train that Billy gave definite statement to what was vaguely bothering
her.

"Huh! We ain't Chinks. We're white folks. Does a Chink ever want to ride
a horse, hell-bent for election an' havin' a good time of it? Did you
ever see a Chink go swimmin' out through the breakers at Carmel?--or
boxin', wrestlin', runnin' an' jumpin' for the sport of it? Did you ever
see a Chink take a shotgun on his arm, tramp six miles, an' come back
happy with one measly rabbit? What does a Chink do? Work his damned head
off. That's all he's good for. To hell with work, if that's the whole
of the game--an' I've done my share of work, an' I can work alongside of
any of 'em. But what's the good? If they's one thing I've learned solid
since you an' me hit the road, Saxon, it is that work's the least part
of life. God!--if it was all of life I couldn't cut my throat quick
enough to get away from it. I want shotguns an' rifles, an' a horse
between my legs. I don't want to be so tired all the time I can't love
my wife. Who wants to be rich an' clear two hundred an' forty thousand
on a potato deal! Look at Rockefeller. Has to live on milk. I want
porterhouse and a stomach that can bite sole-leather. An' I want you,
an' plenty of time along with you, an' fun for both of us. What's the
good of life if they ain't no fun?"

"Oh, Billy!" Saxon cried. "It's just what I've been trying to get
straightened out in my head. It's been worrying me for ever so long. I
was afraid there was something wrong with me--that I wasn't made for
the country after all. All the time I didn't envy the San Leandro
Portuguese. I didn't want to be one, nor a Pajaro Valley Dalmatian, nor
even a Mrs. Mortimer. And you didn't either. What we want is a valley
of the moon, with not too much work, and all the fun we want. And we'll
just keep on looking until we find it. And if we don't find it, we'll
go on having the fun just as we have ever since we left Oakland. And,
Billy... we're never, never going to work our damned heads off, are we?"

"Not on your life," Billy growled in fierce affirmation.

They walked into Black Diamond with their packs on their backs. It was a
scattered village of shabby little cottages, with a main street that
was a wallow of black mud from the last late spring rain. The sidewalks
bumped up and down in uneven steps and landings. Everything seemed
un-American. The names on the strange dingy shops were unspeakably
foreign. The one dingy hotel was run by a Greek. Greeks were
everywhere--swarthy men in sea-boots and tam-o'-shanters, hatless
women in bright colors, hordes of sturdy children, and all speaking in
outlandish voices, crying shrilly and vivaciously with the volubility of
the Mediterranean.

"Huh!--this ain't the United States," Billy muttered. Down on the water
front they found a fish cannery and an asparagus cannery in the height
of the busy season, where they looked in vain among the toilers for
familiar American faces. Billy picked out the bookkeepers and foremen
for Americans. All the rest were Greeks, Italians, and Chinese.

At the steamboat wharf, they watched the bright-painted Greek boats
arriving, discharging their loads of glorious salmon, and departing. New
York Cut-Off, as the slough was called, curved to the west and north and
flowed into a vast body of water which was the united Sacramento and San
Joaquin rivers.

Beyond the steamboat wharf, the fishing wharves dwindled to stages for
the drying of nets; and here, away from the noise and clatter of the
alien town, Saxon and Billy took off their packs and rested. The tall,
rustling tules grew out of the deep water close to the dilapidated
boat-landing where they sat. Opposite the town lay a long flat island,
on which a row of ragged poplars leaned against the sky.

"Just like in that Dutch windmill picture Mark Hall has," Saxon said.

Billy pointed out the mouth of the slough and across the broad reach
of water to a cluster of tiny white buildings, behind which, like a
glimmering mirage, rolled the low Montezuma Hills.

"Those houses is Collinsville," he informed her. "The Sacramento river
comes in there, and you go up it to Rio Vista an' Isleton, and Walnut
Grove, and all those places Mr. Gunston was tellin' us about. It's
all islands and sloughs, connectin' clear across an' back to the San
Joaquin."

"Isn't the sun good," Saxon yawned. "And how quiet it is here, so short
a distance away from those strange foreigners. And to think! in the
cities, right now, men are beating and killing each other for jobs."

Now and again an overland passenger train rushed by in the distance,
echoing along the background of foothills of Mt. Diablo, which bulked,
twin-peaked, greencrinkled, against the sky. Then the slumbrous quiet
would fall, to be broken by the far call of a foreign tongue or by a
gasoline fishing boat chugging in through the mouth of the slough.

Not a hundred feet away, anchored close in the tules, lay a beautiful
white yacht. Despite its tininess, it looked broad and comfortable.
Smoke was rising for'ard from its stovepipe. On its stern, in gold
letters, they read Roamer. On top of the cabin, basking in the sunshine,
lay a man and woman, the latter with a pink scarf around her head. The
man was reading aloud from a book, while she sewed. Beside them sprawled
a fox terrier.

"Gosh! they don't have to stick around cities to be happy," Billy
commented.

A Japanese came on deck from the cabin, sat down for'ard, and began
picking a chicken. The feathers floated away in a long line toward the
mouth of the slough.

"Oh! Look!" Saxon pointed in her excitement. "He's fishing! And the line
is fast to his toe!"

The man had dropped the book face-downward on the cabin and reached for
the line, while the woman looked up from her sewing, and the terrier
began to bark. In came the line, hand under hand, and at the end a
big catfish. When this was removed, and the line rebaited and dropped
overboard, the man took a turn around his toe and went on reading.

A Japanese came down on the landing-stage beside Saxon and Billy, and
hailed the yacht. He carried parcels of meat and vegetables; one coat
pocket bulged with letters, the other with morning papers. In response
to his hail, the Japanese on the yacht stood up with the part-plucked
chicken. The man said something to him, put aside the book, got into the
white skiff lying astern, and rowed to the landing. As he came alongside
the stage, he pulled in his oars, caught hold, and said good morning
genially.

"Why, I know you," Saxon said impulsively, to Billy's amazement. "You
are.. .."

Here she broke off in confusion.

"Go on," the man said, smiling reassurance.

"You are Jack Hastings, I 'm sure of it. I used to see your photograph
in the papers all the time you were war correspondent in the
Japanese-Russian War. You've written lots of books, though I've never
read them."

 "Right you are," he ratified. "And what's your name?"

I want her father to see that there are people worth knowing even
here.
You will tell her of all the pleasures we have,--our walks, our rides.
You cannot be afraid of her, dear Janet,--she is so gentle, so lovely."

A strange feeling seized me, one mingled of gentleness and bitterness.

Yes, for his sake, I would help him. I would do all I could to welcome
to his home her who was to be its blessing, and (here my good angel
left me and some evil one whispered) I would show her, too, that I was
not so altogether to be contemned; she should see that I was not merely
the poor country-girl she thought me. And all I had of thought or
feeling, all that George Hammond had called my inborn poetry, came
out that evening.

I talked, I talked well, for I was talking of what I understood,--of my
own forests and streams, of the flowers whose haunts I knew so well,
of the changing seasons in their varying beauty,--nay, as I gained
courage, as I saw that I commanded attention, the books that I had
read so well, the thoughts of those great writers that I had made
my own, came to my aid, and quotation and allusion pressed readily to
my lips.

I saw Esther Hammond's cold look fixed upon my face, but I dared it back
again, and my color rose and my eye sparkled from the excitement.

I felt my triumph when I saw the surprise on Mr. Hammond's face, when I
heard the patronizing tone of Mr. Worthington's voice changed to one of
equality, as he said,--
"You are a worthy champion of Sandy life, Miss Janet. I believe Amy will
be tempted to try it."
There was a quick blush on Amy's face as I turned to look at it, and
a glance of proud affection towards her from George Hammond, which took
away my false strength as I stood, leaving me, weak and trembling,
to seek my home in the evening twilight.

That evening's short-lived triumph cost me dear.

It betrayed my scarcely self-acknowledged secret to another. Miss
Hammond's woman's-eye had read the poor fool who laid her heart open
before her. I was made to feel my weakness before her the next morning,
when, walking into our kitchen, she asked, with her hard, yet dignified
calmness, that I should gather for her some of the Summer Sweetings
that hung so thick on the tree behind our house.

She followed me to the orchard. I gathered the apples diligently and
spoke no word, but not for that did I escape. She stood calmly looking
on till I had finished, then began with that terrible opening from
which we all shrink.

"I should like to speak to you a few moments, Janet."

I quailed before her, for I had somehow a perception of what she was
going to say, though I scarcely dreamed of the hardness with which
it would by said.

The blow came, however.

"My brother has been in the habit of taking notice of you ever since he
has been on the Sandy, and he has been of great advantage to you; but
you must be aware that such notice as he gave you when you were a mere
child cannot be continued now that you are a woman."
I bowed my head, and my lips formed something like a "Yes."
She went on.

"I say this to you because I was surprised to find by your behavior
last night that you had allowed yourself to presume upon that notice,
and I do not suppose you know how unbecoming this is, from a person
in your position, especially before Miss Worthington."

I was stung into a reply.

"What is Miss Worthington to me?" came out sullenly from my lips.

"Nothing to you, certainly, nor can she ever be; but as the future wife
of my brother, she is something to me."
It was true, then; but so fully had I felt the truth before that
this certainty gave me no added pang.

From its very depths of despair I drew strength, and, my courage
rising, I had power even to look full at Miss Hammond, and say,--
"You may be sure I shall never intrude myself on Mr. Hammond's wife
or sister, nor upon him, unless he desires it, except, indeed, to wish
him happiness."
My unexpected calmness roused her worst feelings, her pride, her
jealousy, and, with a woman's keen aim, she sent the next dart home. So
calmly she spoke, too, with such command of herself,--with a lady-like
self-control that I, alas! knew not how to reach.

"I am happy to hear you say so, for there have been times when your
singular manner has made me fear that you nourished some very false
and idle dreams,--follies that I have sometimes thought it my duty
as a woman to warn you against"; and with one keen look at my burning
face, she took up the basket and walked away.

I think at that moment I could have killed her, so bitter was the
hatred which I felt towards her; but the next brought its crushing shame,
taking away from me all but the desire to hide myself from every
eye.

Where should I go? Somewhere where nobody could find me, where I
could be insured perfect solitude. It was not difficult to bury myself
in the forest that pressed around me on every side, and a few minutes
saw me struggling with the embarrassments of the tangled vines
which obstructed the path up our steepest hill.

There was in the very difficulties to be overcome something that
seemed to bring me relief; they forced my mind from myself. On, on I went,
as if my life depended upon my struggles, till, breathless and
utterly exhausted, I had reached the top of the hill, the highest
point for miles around.

I sank down on the cool grass, the fresh wind blowing on my face, and,
too wearied to think, shut my eyes against the beautiful Nature
around me, alive only to my own overpowering misery.

How long I lay there I never knew. I was safe and alone. I could be
wretched as I pleased, away from Miss Hammond's mocking eye, away
from the sight of George Hammond's happiness. But, strangely enough, out
of the very freedom to be miserable came at last a sense of relief. I
looked my wretchedness full in the face. Could I not bear it? And
there rose within me a strength I had not known before. I was young,
I had a long life before me; it could not be but that this great
sorrow would pass away. At least, I would not nourish it. I would do
what I could to help myself. Help _myself_! For the first time in my
life I put up an earnest prayer for help out of myself.

The words, coming as such words come but few times in life, out
from the very depths of the heart, brought with them their softening
influence.

The tears sprung forth, those tears which I thought I should never
shed again, and I burst into a passionate fit of crying, the passionate
crying of a child. It shook me from head to foot with its
hysterical convulsions, but it left me at last calmer, soothed
into stillness, with only now and then those choking after-sobs which
I, child like, sent forth there on the bosom of the only mother I
had ever known,--our kindly mother Earth.

The sun was going down when I rose up, soothed and comforted, and
strengthened, too, for a time. I would do what I could. I would live
down this grief: how I knew not, but the way would come to me. And
gathering up my hair, which had fallen around me, I stopped, on
my way home, by a running stream, and bathed my eyes and forehead
until I was fit to appear before my step-mother.

She did not question me; she was too used to my unexplained absences
since I had grown out of her control.

Sufficient for her that my tasks were always performed; sufficient
for her, that, that very evening, I threw myself with an apparently
untiring energy into the household work,--that I never rested a
moment till she herself closed the house and insisted that I should
go to bed.

I slept that night,--after such fatigue, it was impossible but that I
should,--and woke in the morning with a renewed determination to
struggle against my sorrow.

Alas! alas! I thought I had only to resolve. I thought the struggle
would be but once. How little I knew of the daily, almost hourly, changes
of feeling,--of the despondency, the despair, that would come, I knew
not why, directly upon my most earnest resolves, my hardest
struggles,--of the weakness that would make me at times give up all
struggling as useless,--of the mad hope that would sometimes arise
that something, some outward change, I did not dare to say what,
would bring me some relief!

I had at least the courage to keep away from the sight of all that
was so miserable to me. I did not see George Hammond for weeks, and
he--ah!
there was the bitterness--he did not miss me.

And so the weary days went on. It is wonderful what endurance there is
in a young heart,--for how long a time it can beat off suffering all
day by unceasing labor, and lie awake all night with that same suffering
for a bedfellow, and still make no sign that a careless eye can see
I look at that time now with wonder. How did I bear that constant
occupation by day, alternated only with those sleepless nights, without
breaking down entirely? The crisis came at last,--a sort of stupor, a
cessation of suffering indeed, but a cessation, too, of all feeling.

I was frightened at myself. Alas! I had no one to be frightened for me.
Could it be that I was going to lose my senses? But no, I passed through
that too, and then came a more natural state of mind than any I had known
since the blow fell.

My suffering self seemed like something apart from me, which I
could pity and help, could counsel and act for, and this one thing
became clear to me. Some change of scene was necessary to me. I could
never go on so; it was idle to attempt it. I could not live any longer
face to face with my grief. There was the whole world before me. Was it
not possible to go out into it? I had health, strength, ability, I was
sure of it. How often before had I dreamed over the seeking my fortune
in that world which looked to me then so full of excitement! Nothing
had held me back then but the clinging to home-pleasures, to home-enjoyments,
to home-comforts, poor as they were,--nothing but the sense of safety,
of protection. What were these to me now? I cared nothing for them. I
only asked to be away from all that reminded me of my suffering,
to be so forced to struggle with external difficulties as to have
no thought for myself.

I did not want to love anybody; I would rather have nobody care for me. I
would go. The only question was how.

A few days and nights of thought solved the problem for me, and, once
roused to action, I took my steps rapidly and well. The first thing
necessary was money, money enough to take me away, and to support
me until I could find employment; and the means of attaining it were
within my reach. I owned a watch that had been my mother's, a
pretty trinket, though somewhat old-fashioned, and which had often
excited the envy of the young wife of one of the head miners. I knew
that her husband was flush of money just then, for he had drawn his
wages only the week before,--and I knew, too, that he would give me
a good price for my watch, were it only to gratify the bride to whom
he had as yet denied nothing.

The sale was made at once. I do not know if I got anything like the value
of the watch, but the next day saw me with fifty dollars in my pocket,
a small bundle, made up from the most available part of my wardrobe,
under my arm, prepared to walk to Louisa, avowedly to buy supplies, but
with the secret determination to meet there the coal-boats which
were bound for the mouth, ask a passage on them as far as Catlettsburg,
and there take the first steamer that passed, and let it carry me
whither it would.

There was no pause of regret, no delay for parting looks or words;
from the moment that I had made up my mind to go, I felt nothing
but a desperate eagerness to be away, to be in action.

The few words necessary to prepare my step-mother for my ostensible
errand were soon said, the good-morning calmly spoken, and I passed
into the forest-path leading to the town. A pang smote me as I
remembered her conscientious discharge of duty toward me for so
many years; but it was duty, not love, that had urged her, and while I
said that to myself, I said, too, that time would bring to me the
opportunity of repaying her.

Toward the settlement on the opposite shore I turned no look. I would
not trust myself; I knew my own weakness too well; this desperate energy
which was carrying me on now would fail, if I allowed my heart one
moment's indulgence.

Steadily I walked on through the woods, my own woods, which, perhaps, I
should never see again, till, wearied out by the exertion, which
had precluded thought, I saw the houses of Louisa rise before me.

The boats lay at the fork above the town. I had informed myself of their
movements, and knew they were to start at noon. A few inquiries for
groceries and so forth, where I know they could not be gotten, gave me
an excuse for the proposition to the captain of the boats to give
me a passage to Catlettsburg.

It was readily granted, and the crew, most of them Sandy men, put up a
rough awning, and, spreading under it some blankets, did their kind
uttermost to make me comfortable.

I remember now, as one looks back into a dream, the afternoon and night
that passed before we reached Catlettsburg. I lay perfectly quiet,
watching the shadowy trees as we glided past them, noting their
varied reflections in the water, marking every peculiarity of shore
and stream, hearing the jests and laughter, the words of command
and the oaths, that went round among the boatmen; but all passed
as something with which I had nothing to do.

To me there was the burning desire to put a great distance between
myself and my home,--but with it, too, the consciousness, that, as I
could do nothing to expedite our slow progress, so neither could
I afford to waste upon it in impatient restlessness the strength
which would be so much needed afterwards.

The men brought me a cup of coffee from their supper, which gave me
strength for the night. The biscuit I could not taste.

But how long was that night! how tedious the summer dawn! and how slowly
went the hours till we brought up our boats at the landing at
Catlettsburg!

I had formed my plans; so, telling the captain that I might perhaps want
to go back with him, I hurried into the town. A steamboat lay by the
wharf-boat.

"The Bostona, for Cincinnati," said the board displayed over her upper
railing.

She was to leave at eight o'clock. I walked about the town till half-past
seven; then, returning to the coal-boats, gave to the man left in
charge a letter I had prepared, in which I told my step-mother, in
as few words as possible, that I wanted to see something of the
world, and had determined to go for a time either to Cincinnati or
to Pittsburg,--that I begged her not to be uneasy about me, I had
sold my watch, and had money enough for the present; she should
hear from me in due time.

The man took the letter, with some remark on my not returning with them,
and, with a quiet good-day, I left him and walked rapidly toward
the steamer.

The plank was laid from the wharf-boat, and, without daring to
hesitate, I walked over it.

It was done.
CHAPTER XII

Crossing the Sacramento on an old-fashioned ferry a short distance above
Rio Vista, Saxon and Billy entered the river country. From the top
of the levee she got her revelation. Beneath, lower than the river,
stretched broad, flat land, far as the eye could see. Roads ran in
every direction, and she saw countless farmhouses of which she had never
dreamed when sailing on the lonely river a few feet the other side of
the willowy fringe.

Three weeks they spent among the rich farm islands, which heaped up
levees and pumped day and night to keep afloat. It was a monotonous
land, with an unvarying richness of soil and with only one landmark--Mt.
Diablo, ever to be seen, sleeping in the midday azure, limping its
crinkled mass against the sunset sky, or forming like a dream out of the
silver dawn. Sometimes on foot, often by launch, they cries-crossed and
threaded the river region as far as the peat lands of the Middle River,
down the San Joaquin to Antioch, and up Georgiana Slough to Walnut Grove
on the Sacramento. And it proved a foreign land. The workers of the soil
teemed by thousands, yet Saxon and Billy knew what it was to go a
whole day without finding any one who spoke English. They
encountered--sometimes in whole villages--Chinese, Japanese, Italians,
Portuguese, Swiss, Hindus, Koreans, Norwegians, Danes, French,
Armenians, Slavs, almost every nationality save American. One American
they found on the lower reaches of Georgiana who eked an illicit
existence by fishing with traps. Another American, who spouted blood and
destruction on all political subjects, was an itinerant bee-farmer. At
Walnut Grove, bustling with life, the few Americans consisted of
the storekeeper, the saloonkeeper, the butcher, the keeper of the
drawbridge, and the ferryman. Yet two thriving towns were in Walnut
Grove, one Chinese, one Japanese. Most of the land was owned by
Americans, who lived away from it and were continually selling it to the
foreigners.

A riot, or a merry-making--they could not tell which--was taking place
in the Japanese town, as Saxon and Billy steamed out on the Apache,
bound for Sacramento.

"We're settin' on the stoop," Billy railed. "Pretty soon they'll crowd
us off of that."

"There won't be any stoop in the valley of the moon," Saxon cheered him.

But he was inconsolable, remarking bitterly:

"An' they ain't one of them damn foreigners that can handle four horses
like me.

"But they can everlastingly farm," he added.

And Saxon, looking at his moody face, was suddenly reminded of a
lithograph she had seen in her childhood It was of a Plains Indian, in
paint and feathers, astride his horse and gazing with wondering eye at a
railroad train rushing along a fresh-made track. The Indian had passed,
she remembered, before the tide of new life that brought the railroad.
And were Billy and his kind doomed to pass, she pondered, before this
new tide of life, amazingly industrious, that was flooding in from Asia
and Europe?

At Sacramento they stopped two weeks, where Billy drove team and earned
the money to put them along on their travels. Also, life in Oakland and
Carmel, close to the salt edge of the coast, had spoiled them for the
interior. Too warm, was their verdict of Sacramento and they followed
the railroad west, through a region of swamp-land, to Davisville. Here
they were lured aside and to the north to pretty Woodland, where Billy
drove team for a fruit farm, and where Saxon wrung from him a reluctant
consent for her to work a few days in the fruit harvest. She made an
important and mystifying secret of what she intended doing with her
earnings, and Billy teased her about it until the matter passed from his
mind. Nor did she tell him of a money order inclosed with a certain blue
slip of paper in a letter to Bud Strothers.

They began to suffer from the heat. Billy declared they had strayed out
of the blanket climate.

"There are no redwoods here," Saxon said. "We must go west toward the
coast. It is there we'll find the valley of the moon."

From Woodland they swung west and south along the county roads to the
fruit paradise of Vacaville. Here Billy picked fruit, then drove team;
and here Saxon received a letter and a tiny express package from Bud
Strothers. When Billy came into camp from the day's work, she bade him
stand still and shut his eyes. For a few seconds she fumbled and did
something to the breast of his cotton work-shirt. Once, he felt a slight
prick, as of a pin point, and grunted, while she laughed and bullied him
to continue keeping his eyes shut.

"Close your eyes and give me a kiss," she sang, "and then I'll show you
what iss."

She kissed him and when he looked down he saw, pinned to his shirt, the
gold medals he had pawned the day they had gone to the moving picture
show and received their inspiration to return to the land.

"You darned kid!" he exclaimed, as he caught her to him. "So that's
what you blew your fruit money in on? An' I never guessed!--Come here to
you."

And thereupon she suffered the pleasant mastery of his brawn, and was
hugged and wrestled with until the coffee pot boiled over and she darted
from him to the rescue.

"I kinda always been a mite proud of 'em," he confessed, as he rolled
his after-supper cigarette. "They take me back to my kid days when I
amateured it to beat the band. I was some kid in them days, believe
muh.--But say, d'ye know, they'd clean slipped my recollection.
Oakland's a thousan' years away from you an' me, an' ten thousan'
miles."

"Then this will bring you back to it," Saxon said, opening Bud's letter
and reading it aloud.

Bud had taken it for granted that Billy knew the wind-up of the strike;
so he devoted himself to the details as to which men had got back their
jobs, and which had been blacklisted. To his own amazement he had been
taken back, and was now driving Billy's horses. Still more amazing was
the further information he had to impart. The old foreman of the West
Oakland stables had died, and since then two other foremen had done
nothing but make messes of everything. The point of all which was that
the Boss had spoken that day to Bud, regretting the disappearance of
Billy.

"Don't make no mistake," Bud wrote. "The Boss is onto all your curves.
I bet he knows every scab you slugged. Just the same he says to
me--Strothers, if you ain't at liberty to give me his address, just
write yourself and tell him for me to come a running. I'll give him a
hundred and twenty-five a month to take hold the stables."

Saxon waited with well-concealed anxiety when the letter was finished.
Billy, stretched out, leaning on one elbow, blew a meditative ring of
smoke. His cheap workshirt, incongruously brilliant with the gold of
the medals that flashed in the firelight, was open in front, showing
the smooth skin and splendid swell of chest. He glanced around--at the
blankets bowered in a green screen and waiting, at the campfire and the
blackened, battered coffee pot, at the well-worn hatchet, half buried in
a tree trunk, and lastly at Saxon. His eyes embraced her; then into them
came a slow expression of inquiry. But she offered no help.

"Well," he uttered finally, "all you gotta do is write Bud Strothers,
an' tell 'm not on the Boss's ugly tintype.--An' while you're about it,
I'll send 'm the money to get my watch out. You work out the interest.
The overcoat can stay there an' rot."

But they did not prosper in the interior heat. They lost weight. The
resilience went out of their minds and bodies. As Billy expressed it,
their silk was frazzled. So they shouldered their packs and headed west
across the wild mountains. In the Berryessa Valley, the shimmering heat
waves made their eyes ache, and their heads; so that they traveled on in
the early morning and late afternoon. Still west they headed, over more
mountains, to beautiful Napa Valley. The next valley beyond was Sonoma,
where Hastings had invited them to his ranch. And here they would have
gone, had not Billy chanced upon a newspaper item which told of the
writer's departure to cover some revolution that was breaking out
somewhere in Mexico.

"We'll see 'm later on," Billy said, as they turned northwest, through
the vineyards and orchards of Napa Valley. "We're like that millionaire
Bert used to sing about, except it's time that we've got to burn. Any
direction is as good as any other, only west is best."

Three times in the Napa Valley Billy refused work. Past St. Helena,
Saxon hailed with joy the unmistakable redwoods they could see growing
up the small canyons that penetrated the western wall of the valley.
At Calistoga, at the end of the railroad, they saw the six-horse stages
leaving for Middletown and Lower Lake. They debated their route. That
way led to Lake County and not toward the coast, so Saxon and Billy
swung west through the mountains to the valley of the Russian River,
coming out at Healdsburg. They lingered in the hop-fields on the
rich bottoms, where Billy scorned to pick hops alongside of Indians,
Japanese, and Chinese.

"I couldn't work alongside of 'em an hour before I'd be knockin' their
blocks off," he explained. "Besides, this Russian River's some nifty.
Let's pitch camp and go swimmin'."

So they idled their way north up the broad, fertile valley, so happy
that they forgot that work was ever necessary, while the valley of the
moon was a golden dream, remote, but sure, some day of realization.
At Cloverdale, Billy fell into luck. A combination of sickness and
mischance found the stage stables short a driver. Each day the train
disgorged passengers for the Geysers, and Billy, as if accustomed to it
all his life, took the reins of six horses and drove a full load over
the mountains in stage time. The second trip he had Saxon beside him on
the high boxseat. By the end of two weeks the regular driver was back.
Billy declined a stable-job, took his wages, and continued north.

Saxon had adopted a fox terrier puppy and named him Possum, after the
dog Mrs. Hastings had told them about. So young was he that he quickly
became footsore, and she carried him until Billy perched him on top
of his pack and grumbled that Possum was chewing his back hair to a
frazzle.

They passed through the painted vineyards of Asti at the end of the
grape-picking, and entered Ukiah drenched to the skin by the first
winter rain.

"Say," Billy said, "you remember the way the Roamer just skated along.
Well, this summer's done the same thing--gone by on wheels. An' now it's
up to us to find some place to winter. This Ukiah looks like a pretty
good burg. We'll get a room to-night an' dry out. An' to-morrow I'll
hustle around to the stables, an' if I locate anything we can rent a
shack an' have all winter to think about where we'll go next year."


CHAPTER XIII

The winter proved much less exciting than the one spent in Carmel, and
keenly as Saxon had appreciated the Carmel folk, she now appreciated
them more keenly than ever. In Ukiah she formed nothing more than
superficial acquaintances. Here people were more like those of the
working class she had known in Oakland, or else they were merely
wealthy and herded together in automobiles. There was no democratic
artist-colony that pursued fellowship disregardful of the caste of
wealth.

Yet it was a more enjoyable winter than any she had spent in Oakland.
Billy had failed to get regular employment; so she saw much of him, and
they lived a prosperous and happy hand-to-mouth existence in the tiny
cottage they rented. As extra man at the biggest livery stable, Billy's
spare time was so great that he drifted into horse-trading. It was
hazardous, and more than once he was broke, but the table never wanted
for the best of steak and coffee, nor did they stint themselves for
clothes.

"Them blamed farmers--I gotta pass it to 'em," Billy grinned one day,
when he had been particularly bested in a horse deal. "They won't tear
under the wings, the sons of guns. In the summer they take in boarders,
an' in the winter they make a good livin' coin' each other up at tradin'
horses. An' I just want to tell YOU, Saxon, they've sure shown me a few.
An' I 'm gettin' tough under the wings myself. I'll never tear again
so as you can notice it. Which means one more trade learned for yours
truly. I can make a livin' anywhere now tradin' horses."

Often Billy had Saxon out on spare saddle horses from the stable, and
his horse deals took them on many trips into the surrounding country.
Likewise she was with him when he was driving horses to sell on
commission; and in both their minds, independently, arose a new idea
concerning their pilgrimage. Billy was the first to broach it.

"I run into an outfit the other day, that's stored in town," he said,
"an' it's kept me thinkin' ever since. Ain't no use tryin' to get you to
guess it, because you can't. I'll tell you--the swellest wagon-campin'
outfit; anybody ever heard of. First of all, the wagon's a peacherino.
Strong as they make 'em. It was made to order, upon Puget Sound, an' it
was tested out all the way down here. No load an' no road can strain it.
The guy had consumption that had it built. A doctor an' a cook traveled
with 'm till he passed in his checks here in Ukiah two years ago. But
say--if you could see it. Every kind of a contrivance--a place for
everything--a regular home on wheels. Now, if we could get that, an' a
couple of plugs, we could travel like kings, an' laugh at the weather."

"Oh! Billy! it's just what I've been dreamin' all winter. It would
be ideal. And... well, sometimes on the road I 'm sure you can't help
forgetting what a nice little wife you've got... and with a wagon I
could have all kinds of pretty clothes along."

Billy's blue eyes glowed a caress, cloudy and warm; as he said quietly:

"I've ben thinkin' about that."

"And you can carry a rifle and shotgun and fishing poles and
everything," she rushed along. "And a good big axe, man-size, instead of
that hatchet you're always complaining about. And Possum can lift up
his legs and rest. And--but suppose you can't buy it? How much do they
want?"

"One hundred an' fifty big bucks," he answered. "But dirt cheap at that.
It's givin' it away. I tell you that rig wasn't built for a cent less
than four hundred, an' I know wagon-work in the dark. Now, if I can put
through that dicker with Caswell's six horses--say, I just got onto that
horse-buyer to-day. If he buys 'em, who d'ye think he'll ship 'em to?
To the Boss, right to the West Oakland stables. I 'm goin' to get you to
write to him. Travelin', as we're goin' to, I can pick up bargains. An'
if the Boss'll talk, I can make the regular horse-buyer's commissions.
He'll have to trust me with a lot of money, though, which most likely he
won't, knowin' all his scabs I beat up."

"If he could trust you to run his stable, I guess he isn't afraid to let
you handle his money," Saxon said.

Billy shrugged his shoulders in modest dubiousness.

"Well, anyway, as I was sayin' if I can sell Caswell's six horses, why,
we can stand off this month's bills an' buy the wagon."

"But horses!" Saxon queried anxiously.

"They'll come later--if I have to take a regular job for two or three
months. The only trouble with that 'd be that it'd run us pretty well
along into summer before we could pull out. But come on down town an'
I'll show you the outfit right now."

Saxon saw the wagon and was so infatuated with it that she lost a
night's sleep from sheer insomnia of anticipation. Then Caswell's six
horses were sold, the month's bills held over, and the wagon became
theirs. One rainy morning, two weeks later, Billy had scarcely left the
house, to be gone on an all-day trip into the country after horses, when
he was back again.

"Come on!" he called to Saxon from the street. "Get your things on an'
come along. I want to show you something."

He drove down town to a board stable, and took her through to a large,
roofed inclosure in the rear. There he led to her a span of sturdy
dappled chestnuts, with cream-colored manes and tails.

"Oh, the beauties! the beauties!" Saxon cried, resting her cheek against
the velvet muzzle of one, while the other roguishly nuzzled for a share.

"Ain't they, though?" Billy reveled, leading them up and down before her
admiring gaze. "Thirteen hundred an' fifty each, an' they don't look the
weight, they're that slick put together. I couldn't believe it myself,
till I put 'em on the scales. Twenty-seven hundred an' seven pounds,
the two of 'em. An' I tried 'em out--that was two days ago. Good
dispositions, no faults, an' true-pullers, automobile broke an' all
the rest. I'd back 'em to out-pull any team of their weight I ever
seen.--Say, how'd they look hooked up to that wagon of ourn?"

Saxon visioned the picture, and shook her head slowly in a reaction of
regret.

"Three hundred spot cash buys 'em," Billy went on. "An' that's bed-rock.
The owner wants the money so bad he's droolin' for it. Just gotta sell,
an' sell quick. An' Saxon, honest to God, that pair'd fetch five hundred
at auction down in the city. Both mares, full sisters, five an' six
years old, registered Belgian sire, out of a heavy standard-bred mare
that I know. Three hundred takes 'em, an' I got the refusal for three
days."

Saxon's regret changed to indignation.

"Oh, why did you show them to me? We haven't any three hundred, and you
know it. All I've got in the house is six dollars, and you haven't that
much."

"Maybe you think that's all I brought you down town for," he replied
enigmatically. "Well, it ain't."

He paused, licked his lips, and shifted his weight uneasily from one leg
to the other.

"Now you listen till I get all done before you say anything. Ready?"

She nodded.

"Won't open your mouth?"

This time she obediently shook her head.

"Well, it's this way," he began haltingly. "They's a youngster come up
from Frisco, Young Sandow they call 'm, an' the Pride of Telegraph Hill.
He's the real goods of a heavyweight, an' he was to fight Montana
Red Saturday night, only Montana Red, just in a little trainin' bout,
snapped his forearm yesterday. The managers has kept it quiet. Now
here's the proposition. Lots of tickets sold, an' they'll be a big crowd
Saturday night. At the last moment, so as not to disappoint 'em, they'll
spring me to take Montana's place. I 'm the dark horse. Nobody knows
me--not even Young Sandow. He's come up since my time. I'll be a rube
fighter. I can fight as Horse Roberts.

"Now, wait a minute. The winner'll pull down three hundred big round
iron dollars. Wait, I 'm tellin' you! It's a lead-pipe cinch. It's
like robbin' a corpse. Sandow's got all the heart in the world--regular
knock-down-an'-drag-out-an'-hang-on fighter. I've followed 'm in the
papers. But he ain't clever. I 'm slow, all right, all right, but I 'm
clever, an' I got a hay-maker in each arm. I got Sandow's number an' I
know it.

"Now, you got the say-so in this. If you say yes, the nags is ourn. If
you say no, then it's all bets off, an' everything all right, an' I'll
take to harness-washin' at the stable so as to buy a couple of plugs.
Remember, they'll only be plugs, though. But don't look at me while
you're makin' up your mind. Keep your lamps on the horses."

It was with painful indecision that she looked at the beautiful animals.

"Their names is Hazel an' Hattie," Billy put in a sly wedge. "If we get
'em we could call it the 'Double H' outfit."

But Saxon forgot the team and could only see Billy's frightfully bruised
body the night he fought the Chicago Terror. She was about to speak,
when Billy, who had been hanging on her lips, broke in:

"Just hitch 'em up to our wagon in your mind an' look at the outfit. You
got to go some to beat it."

"But you're not in training, Billy," she said suddenly and without
having intended to say it.

"Huh!" he snorted. "I've been in half trainin' for the last year. My
legs is like iron. They'll hold me up as long as I've got a punch left
in my arms, and I always have that. Besides, I won't let 'm make a long
fight. He's a man-eater, an' man-eaters is my meat. I eat 'm alive. It's
the clever boys with the stamina an' endurance that I can't put away.
But this young Sandow's my meat. I'll get 'm maybe in the third or
fourth round--you know, time 'm in a rush an' hand it to 'm just as
easy. It's a lead-pipe cinch, I tell you. Honest to God, Saxon, it's a
shame to take the money."

"But I hate to think of you all battered up," she temporized. "If I
didn't love you so, it might be different. And then, too, you might get
hurt."

Billy laughed in contemptuous pride of youth and brawn.

"You won't know I've been in a fight, except that we'll own Hazel
an' Hattie there. An' besides, Saxon, I just gotta stick my fist in
somebody's face once in a while. You know I can go for months peaceable
an' gentle as a lamb, an' then my knuckles actually begin to itch to
land on something. Now, it's a whole lot sensibler to land on Young
Sandow an' get three hundred for it, than to land on some hayseed an'
get hauled up an' fined before some justice of the peace. Now take
another squint at Hazel an' Hattie. They're regular farm furniture, good
to breed from when we get to that valley of the moon. An' they're heavy
enough to turn right into the plowin', too."


The evening of the fight at quarter past eight, Saxon parted from Billy.
At quarter past nine, with hot water, ice, and everything ready in
anticipation, she heard the gate click and Billy's step come up the
porch. She had agreed to the fight much against her better judgment, and
had regretted her consent every minute of the hour she had just waited;
so that, as she opened the front door, she was expectant of any sort of
a terrible husband-wreck. But the Billy she saw was precisely the Billy
she had parted from.

"There was no fights" she cried, in so evident disappointment that he
laughed.

"They was all yellin' 'Fake! Fake!' when I left, an' wantin' their money
back."

"Well, I've got YOU," she laughed, leading him in, though secretly she
sighed farewell to Hazel and Hattie.

"I stopped by the way to get something for you that you've been wantin'
some time," Billy said casually. "Shut your eyes an' open your hand; an'
when you open your eyes you'll find it grand," he chanted.

Into her hand something was laid that was very heavy and very cold, and
when her eyes opened she saw it was a stack of fifteen twenty-dollar
gold pieces.

"I told you it was like takin' money from a corpse," he exulted, as
he emerged grinning from the whirlwind of punches, whacks, and hugs in
which she had enveloped him. "They wasn't no fight at all. D 'ye want
to know how long it lasted? Just twenty-seven seconds--less 'n half
a minute. An' how many blows struck? One. An' it was me that done it.
Here, I'll show you. It was just like this--a regular scream."

Billy had taken his place in the middle of the room, slightly crouching,
chin tucked against the sheltering left shoulder, fists closed, elbows
in so as to guard left side and abdomen, and forearms close to the body.

"It's the first round," he pictured. "Gong's sounded, an' we've shook
hands. Of course, seein' as it's a long fight an' we've never seen each
other in action, we ain't in no rush. We're just feelin' each other out
an' fiddlin' around. Seventeen seconds like that. Not a blow struck.
Nothin'. An' then it's all off with the big Swede. It takes some time to
tell it, but it happened in a jiffy, in fess In a tenth of a second. I
wasn't expectin' it myself. We're awful close together. His left glove
ain't a foot from my jaw, an' my left glove ain't a foot from his. He
confesses, also, that the body of the convulsionist was bent back so
that the head and feet touched the floor, and was supported only on the
sharp point of a stake right under her reins, and placed perpendicularly
beneath the spot where the stone was to fall. The weight of the
stone in falling was, therefore, arrested only by the point of this stake,
the body of the convulsionist being between them, so that the entire
force of the blow was concentrated opposite that point.... The stake
appeared to penetrate to a certain depth into the body, yet neither the
skin nor the flesh received the slightest injury, nor did the convulsionist
experience any pain whatever."[30]
This same Marie Sonnet exposed herself to terrible tests by fire. A
certificate in regard to this matter, signed by eleven persons, of
whom one was an English lord, one a Doctor of Theology in the
Sorbonne, and another the brother of Voltaire, Armand Arouet, Treasurer
of the Chamber of Accounts, is given by Montgéron, and I here translate
it:--
"We, the undersigned, certify, that this day, between eight and ten
o'clock, P.M., Marie Sonnet, being in convulsion, was placed, her head
resting on one stool and her feet on another, these stools being
entirely within a large chimney and under the opening of the same,
so that her body was suspended in the air above the fire, which was
of extreme violence, and that she remained in that position for the
space of thirty-six minutes, at four different times; yet the cloth
[_drap_] in which she was wrapped (she having no other dress) was
not burned, though the flames sometimes passed above it: all which
appears to us entirely supernatural.

In testimony whereof, we have signed our names, this twelfth of May,
1736."
To this certificate, which was afterwards legally recorded, a postscript
is appended, stating, that, while they were writing out the certificate,
Marie placed herself a fifth time over the fire, as before, remaining
there nine minutes; that she appeared to sleep, though the fire was
excessively hot; fifteen logs of wood, besides fagots, having been
consumed in the two hours and a quarter during which the witnesses
remained.

Montgéron adds, that this exhibition has been witnessed at least a
hundred times, and by a multitude of persons.

And he expressly states, that the stools, which consisted of iron frames,
with a board upon each, were placed entirely within the fireplace, and
one on each side of the fire; so that, as Marie Sonnet rested her
head on one stool and her feet on the other, her body remained
suspended immediately above the fire; and further, that, "no matter
how intense the heat, not only did she suffer no inconvenience, but
the cloth in which she was wrapped was never injured, nor even
singed, though it was sometimes actually in the flames

."[31]
He declares, also, that Marie, on other occasions, remained over the
fire much longer than is above certified.

The author of the "Vains Efforts" admits that "she remained exposed to the
fire long enough to roast a piece of mutton or veal."

Montgéron informs us, in addition, that Marie Sonnet sometimes varied the
form of this experiment, with a somewhat varying result.

He says,--"I have seen her five or six times, and in the presence of a
multitude of persons, thrust both her feet, with shoes and stockings
on, into the midst of a burning brazier; but in this case the fire did
not respect the shoes, as, in the other, it had respected the cloth
that enwrapped her.

The shoes caught fire, and the soles were reduced to ashes, but without
the convulsionist experiencing pain in her feet, which she continued
to keep for a considerable time in the fire.

Once I had the curiosity to examine the soles of her stockings, in
order to ascertain if they, too, were burnt.

As soon as I touched them they crumbled to powder, so that the sole of
the foot remained bare."[32]
Dr. A----, in the letter already alluded to, which he published
against this girl, admits, that, "while in the midst of flames, or
stretched over a burning brazier, she received no injury whatever

."[33]
M. Poncet, whom I have elsewhere mentioned as one of the chief writers
against the Succorists, admits the following:--

"This convulsionist [Gabrielle Moler] placed herself on her knees before
a large fire full of burning coals all in flame. Then, a person being
seated behind her, and holding her by a band, she plunged her head
into the flames, which closed over it; then, being drawn back, she
repeated the same, continuing it with a regular alternate movement.

She has been seen thus to throw herself on the fire six hundred times
in succession.
Usually she wore a bonnet, but sometimes not; and when she did wear
one, the top of the bonnet was occasionally burned."[34] Montgéron
adds, "but her hair never."[35]
Gabrielle was the first who (in 1736) demanded what was called the
_succor of the swords_.

Montgéron says,--"She was prompted by the supernatural instinct which
guided her to select the strongest and sharpest sword she could find among
those worn by the spectators.

Then setting herself with her back against a wall, she placed the
point of the sword just above her stomach, and called upon him who
seemed the strongest man to push it with all his force; and though
the sword bent into the form of a bow from the violence with which
it was pushed, so that they had to press against the middle of the
blade to keep it straight, still the convulsionist cried out,
'Stronger!

stronger!' After a time she applied the point of the sword to her
throat, and required it to be pushed with the same violence as
before.

The point caused the skin to sink into the throat to the depth of four
finger-breadths, but it never pierced the flesh, let them push as violently
as they would.

Nevertheless, the point of the sword seemed to attach itself to the
skin; for, when drawn back, it drew the skin with it, and left a
trifling redness, such as would be caused by the prick of a pin.

For the rest, the convulsionist suffered no pain whatever."[36]
Similar is the testimony of an Advocate of the Parliament of Paris,
extracts from whose certificate in regard to the succors rendered
to the Sister Madeleine are given by Montgéron.

Here is one of these:--
"One day, extended on the ground, she caused a spit to be placed
upright, with the point on her bare throat.

Then a stout man mounted on a chair, and suspended his whole body
from the head of the spit, pressing with all his force, as if to
transfix the throat and pierce the floor beneath. But the flesh merely
sank in with the point of the spit, without being in the least
injured.

"Another day, she placed the point of a very sharp sword against
the hollow of the throat, just below the epiglottis, and, standing
with her back against the wall, called on them to push the sword.

A vigorous man did so, till the blade bent, though not so much as to form
a complete arc. The point sank into the flesh about an inch.

I was curious to measure the exact depth, and found that the flesh
rose so far around the sword-point that I could sink a finger in
beyond the first joint.

She received this succor twice. The sword was one of the sharpest I have
ever seen. We tried it against a portfolio containing the paper
intended for the minutes which on such occasions I always make out. It
perforated the pasteboard and a considerable part of the papers within."[37]

The Sister Madeleine carried her temerity in this matter still farther.

Here is a portion of the certificate of an ecclesiastic, for whose
uprightness and truthfulness Montgéron vouches in strong terms, and
who relates what he alleges he saw on the thirty-first of May, 1744.

"Madeleine caused them to hold two swords in the air horizontally.

She herself placed the point of one in the inner corner of the right eye,
and of the other in the inner corner of the left, and then called out
to those who held the swords, 'In the name of the Father, push!' They
did so with all their force; and I confess that I shuddered from
head to foot....

A second time Madeleine caused them to set two swords against the pupils
of her eyes, and to press them strongly, as before. This time I took
especial notice of the part of the sword that was on a level with
the surface of the eye when the pressure was the strongest, and I
perceived that the point had penetrated a good inch into the pupil

."[38]
The Chaplain in Ordinary of the King, under date of the fourth of
October, 1744, testifies to confirmatory facts. He says,--"I have seen
them push sword-points against the eyes of Sisters Madeleine and Félicité,
sometimes on the pupil, sometimes in the corner of the eye, sometimes
on the eyelid,--with such force as to cause the eyeball to project,
till the spectators shuddered."[39]

Another officer of the royal household gives a certificate of
succors administered to this same Madeleine, of a character scarcely
less wonderful, with pointed spits, of which two were broken against
her body.

This officer certifies, also, that, on one occasion, when pushing
a sharp sword against Madeleine, not being able to push strongly
enough to satisfy her, he placed a book bound in parchment on his
own breast, placed the hilt of his sword against it, and pressed
with so much force that the cover of the book was quite spoiled by
the deep indentation made by the sword-hilt.

He adds,--"The instinct of her convulsion caused her sometimes to demand
as many as twenty-two swords at a time. These were placed, some in front,
some against her back, some against her sides, in every direction. I
myself never saw quite so many employed; but I was present, and was
myself assisting, when eighteen swords were pushed at once against
various parts of her body. Although the force with which this prodigious
succor was administered caused deep indentations in the flesh, she
never received the slightest wound. It often happened that her convulsions
caused the flesh to react under the pressure of the sword-points, so
as forcibly to push back the assistants."[40]
The Advocate of the Parliament of Paris, already mentioned, certifies
to the same phenomenon.

His words are,--"One can feel, under the sword-point, a movement
of the flesh, which, from time to time, thrusts back the sword.

This occurs the most strongly when the succor is nearly at an end. The
convulsionist calls out, 'Enough!' as soon as the pains are relieved

."[41]
The same Advocate states, that sometimes the convulsionist threw the
weight of her body on the swords, the hilts resting on the floor, and
being secured from slipping. He speaks of one case in which, "while she
was balancing herself on the points of several swords upon which she
had thrown herself with all her weight, [_où elle se jettoit à corps
perdû_,] one of them broke."[42]
The officer of the king's household already spoken of testifies to a
similar fact. A certain Sister Dina, he says, caused six swords thus
to break against her body. He adds, that he himself broke the blade
of a sword while thrusting against her; and that he saw two others
broken in the same way.[43]
In regard to what Montgéron considers the exacting instinct, the
same officer says,--"I had the curiosity to ask Sister Madeleine,
in her natural state, what was the sort of suffering which caused
her to have recourse to such astonishing succors.

She replied, that the pain she suffered was the same as if swords were
actually piercing her; that she felt relieved of this pain as soon
as the sword-points penetrated to her skin, and quite cured when
the assistants put their whole force to it.

She laughed when the swords pierced her dress, saying, 'I feel the points
on my skin. That relieves. That does me good.'"[44]
Both the Advocate of Parliament and the ecclesiastic from whose certificates
I have quoted testify that the convulsionists were repeatedly undressed
and examined by a committee of their own sex, consisting in part of
incredulous ladies of fashion, to ascertain that they had nothing
concealed under their clothes to resist the sword-points.

But in every case it was ascertained that they wore but the ordinary
articles of under-clothing. The Sister Dina was examined in this way;
and it was ascertained that she had nothing under her gown except a
chemise and a simple linen stomacher.

Her clothing was found pierced in many places, but the flesh wholly
uninjured.[45]
Although throughout the writings of the Anti-Succorists there are constant
denunciations of these succors as flagrant and wicked temptings of
Providence, yet I do not find therein any allegation that serious
injury was ever sustained by any of the patients. Montgéron himself,
however, admits, that, on one occasion, a wound was received. He tells
us that a certain convulsionist long resisted the instinct which
bade her demand the succor of a triangular-bladed sword against the
left breast, fearing the result.

At last, however, the pain became so intense that she was fain to consent.
For the first seven or eight minutes the sword-point only indented the
flesh, as usual. But then, says Montgéron, "her faith suddenly
failing her, she cried out, 'Ah! you will kill me!' No sooner had she
pronounced the words than the sword pierced the flesh, making a
wound two inches in depth."

He alleges, further, that the instinct of the convulsionist informed her
that the wound would have no bad consequences, and could be cured
by severe blows of a club on the same spot; which, he declares,
happened accordingly.[46]
Besides the incidents above related, and a hundred others of similar
character, which, if time and the reader's patience permitted, I
might cull from Montgéron's pages, the restless enthusiasm of the
convulsionists ultimately betrayed them into extravagances, in which
it is often hard to decide whether the grotesque or the horrible
more predominated.

One convulsionist descended the long stairs of an infirmary head-foremost,
lying on her back; another caused herself to be attached, by a rope
round her neck, to a hook in the wall. A third repeated her prayers
while turning somersets. A fourth, suspended by the feet, with the head
hanging down, remained in that position three-quarters of an hour. A
fifth, lying down on a tomb, caused herself to be covered to the neck
with baked earth mixed with sand and saturated with vinegar. A sixth made
her bed, in winter, on billets of wood; a seventh on bars of iron. The
Sister Félicité was in the habit of causing herself to be nailed to the
cross, and of remaining there half an hour at a time, gayly
conversing with the pious who surrounded her.[47] Another sister,
named Scholastique, after long hesitation between different modes
of mortification, having one day remarked the manner in which they
constructed the pavement of the streets, had her dress tightly
fastened below the knee, and then ordered one of the assistants to
take her by the legs, and, with her head downward, to dash it
repeatedly against the tiled floor, after the fashion of paviors,
when using a rammer.

"If," says Calmeil, "the idea had chanced to suggest itself to one of
these theomaniacs, that disembowelling alive would be a sacrifice pleasing
to the Supreme Being, she would undoubtedly have insisted upon being
subjected to such a martyrdom."[48]
The mental and physiological phenomena connected with this epidemic
remain to be noticed, together with the theories and suggestions put
forth by medical and other contemporary writers, in explanation of
what has here been sketched, the substance of which is usually admitted
by these commentators, however incredible, when related at this
distance of time, it may appear.

Next month the subject will be continued.

* * * * *
PRESENCE.

The wild, sweet water, as it flows,-- The winds, that kiss me as they
pass,-- The starry shadow of the rose, Sitting beside her on the
grass,--
The daffodilly, trying to bless With better light the beauteous
air,-- The lily, wearing the white dress Of sanctuary, to be more
fair,--
The lithe-armed, dainty-fingered brier, That in the woods, so dim
and drear, Lights up betimes her tender fire To soothe the homesick
pioneer,--
The moth, his brown sails balancing Along the stubble crisp and
dry,-- The ground-flower, with a blood-red ring On either hand,--the
pewet's cry,--
The friendly robin's gracious note,-- The hills, with curious weeds
o'errun,-- The althea, with her crimson coat Tricked out to please
the wearied sun,--
The dandelion, whose golden share Is set before the rustic's plough,--
The hum of insects in the air,-- The blooming bush,--the withered
bough,--
The coming on of eve,--the springs Of daybreak, soft and silver-bright,--
The frost, that with rough, rugged wings Blows down the cankered
buds,--the white,
Long drifts of winter snow,--the heat Of August, falling still and
wide,-- Broad cornfields,--one chance stalk of wheat, Standing with
bright head hung aside,--
All things, my darling, all things seem In some strange way to speak
of thee; Nothing is half so much a dream, Nothing so much reality.

My soul to thine is dutiful, In all its pleasure, all its care; O most
beloved! most beautiful!

I miss, and find thee everywhere!

* * * * *
GLACIAL PERIOD.

In the early part of the summer of 1840, I started from Switzerland for
England with the express object of finding traces of glaciers in Great
Britain. This glacier-hunt was at that time a somewhat perilous
undertaking for the reputation of a young naturalist like myself, since
some of the greatest names in science were arrayed against the novel
glacial theory. And it was not strange that it should be at first discredited
by the scientific world, for hitherto all the investigations of
geologists had gone to show that a degree of heat far greater than any
now prevailing characterized the earlier periods of the world's
history.

Even Charpentier, my precursor and master in glacial research, who
first showed the greater extent of Swiss glaciers in former times,
had not thought of any more general application of his result, or
connected their former boundaries with any great change in the
climatic conditions of the whole continent.

His explanation of the phenomena rested upon the assumption that the
Alps formerly rose far beyond their present height; their greater
altitude, he thought, would account for the existence of immense glaciers
extending from the Alps across the plain of Switzerland to the Jura.

"He's the funniest barkeeper I ever seen," Billy commented. "I took
him for a business man of some sort. Must a-ben in some kind of a quiet
hotel."

"Don't drive on right away," Saxon requested. "I want to talk with him."

He came back, polishing his glasses, his face beaming, watching the
water as if fascinated by it. It required no more exertion on Saxon's
part to start him than had been required on his part to start the motor.

"The pioneers settled all this in the early fifties," he said. "The
Mexicans never got this far, so it was government land. Everybody got a
hundred and sixty acres. And such acres! The stories they tell about how
much wheat they got to the acre are almost unbelievable. Then several
things happened. The sharpest and steadiest of the pioneers held what
they had and added to it from the other fellows. It takes a great many
quarter sections to make a bonanza farm. It wasn't long before it was
'most all bonanza farms."

"They were the successful gamblers," Saxon put in, remembering Mark
Hall's words.

The man nodded appreciatively and continued.

"The old folks schemed and gathered and added the land into the big
holdings, and built the great barns and mansions, and planted the house
orchards and flower gardens. The young folks were spoiled by so much
wealth and went away to the cities to spend it. And old folks and young
united in one thing: in impoverishing the soil. Year after year they
scratched it and took out bonanza crops. They put nothing back. All they
left was plow-sole and exhausted land. Why, there's big sections they
exhausted and left almost desert.

"The bonanza farmers are all gone now, thank the Lord, and here's where
we small farmers come into our own. It won't be many years before the
whole valley will be farmed in patches like mine. Look at what we're
doing! Worked-out land that had ceased to grow wheat, and we turn the
water on, treat the soil decently, and see our orchards!

"We've got the water--from the mountains, and from under the ground. I
was reading an account the other day. All life depends on food. All food
depends on water. It takes a thousand pounds of water to produce one
pound of food; ten thousand pounds to produce one pound of meat. How
much water do you drink in a year? About a ton. But you eat about
two hundred pounds of vegetables and two hundred pounds of meat
a year--which means you consume one hundred tons of water in the
vegetables and one thousand tons in the meat--which means that it takes
eleven hundred and one tons of water each year to keep a small woman
like you going."

"Gee!" was all Billy could say.

"You see how population depends upon water," the ax-barkeeper went on.
"Well, we've got the water, immense subterranean supplies, and in not
many years this valley will be populated as thick as Belgium."

Fascinated by the five-inch stream, sluiced out of the earth and back
to the earth by the droning motor, he forgot his discourse and stood and
gazed, rapt and unheeding, while his visitors drove on.

"An' him a drink-slinger!" Billy marveled. "He can sure sling the
temperance dope if anybody should ask you."

"It's lovely to think about--all that water, and all the happy people
that will come here to live--"

"But it ain't the valley of the moon!" Billy laughed.

"No," she responded. "They don't have to irrigate in the valley of
the moon, unless for alfalfa and such crops. What we want is the water
bubbling naturally from the ground, and crossing the farm in little
brooks, and on the boundary a fine big creek--"

"With trout in it!" Billy took her up. "An' willows and trees of all
kinds growing along the edges, and here a riffle where you can flip
out trout, and there a deep pool where you can swim and high-dive. An'
kingfishers, an' rabbits comin' down to drink, an', maybe, a deer."

"And meadowlarks in the pasture," Saxon added. "And mourning doves
in the trees. We must have mourning doves--and the big, gray
tree-squirrels."

"Gee!--that valley of the moon's goin' to be some valley," Billy
meditated, flicking a fly away with his whip from Hattie's side. "Think
we'll ever find it?"

Saxon nodded her head with great certitude.

"Just as the Jews found the promised land, and the Mormons Utah, and the
Pioneers California. You remember the last advice we got when we left
Oakland' ''Tis them that looks that finds.'"


CHAPTER XV

Ever north, through a fat and flourishing rejuvenated land, stopping at
the towns of Willows, Red Bluff and Redding, crossing the counties of
Colusa, Glenn, Tehama, and Shasta, went the spruce wagon drawn by the
dappled chestnuts with cream-colored manes and tails. Billy picked up
only three horses for shipment, although he visited many farms; and
Saxon talked with the women while he looked over the stock with the men.
And Saxon grew the more convinced that the valley she sought lay not
there.

At Redding they crossed the Sacramento on a cable ferry, and made a
day's scorching traverse through rolling foot-hills and flat tablelands.
The heat grew more insupportable, and the trees and shrubs were blasted
and dead. Then they came again to the Sacramento, where the great
smelters of Kennett explained the destruction of the vegetation.

They climbed out of the smelting town, where eyrie houses perched
insecurely on a precipitous landscape. It was a broad, well-engineered
road that took them up a grade miles long and plunged down into the
Canyon of the Sacramento. The road, rock-surfaced and easy-graded, hewn
out of the canyon wall, grew so narrow that Billy worried for fear of
meeting opposite-bound teams. Far below, the river frothed and flowed
over pebbly shallows, or broke tumultuously over boulders and cascades,
in its race for the great valley they had left behind.

Sometimes, on the wider stretches of road, Saxon drove and Billy walked
to lighten the load. She insisted on taking her turns at walking, and
when he breathed the panting mares on the steep, and Saxon stood by
their heads caressing them and cheering them, Billy's joy was too deep
for any turn of speech as he gazed at his beautiful horses and his
glowing girl, trim and colorful in her golden brown corduroy, the brown
corduroy calves swelling sweetly under the abbreviated slim skirt. And
when her answering look of happiness came to him--a sudden dimness in
her straight gray eyes--he was overmastered by the knowledge that he
must say something or burst.

"O, you kid!" he cried.

And with radiant face she answered, "O, you kid!"

They camped one night in a deep dent in the canyon, where was snuggled
a box-factory village, and where a toothless ancient, gazing with faded
eyes at their traveling outfit, asked: "Be you showin'?"

They passed Castle Crags, mighty-bastioned and glowing red against the
palpitating blue sky. They caught their first glimpse of Mt. Shasta, a
rose-tinted snow-peak rising, a sunset dream, between and beyond green
interlacing walls of canyon--a landmark destined to be with them for
many days. At unexpected turns, after mounting some steep grade, Shasta
would appear again, still distant, now showing two peaks and glacial
fields of shimmering white. Miles and miles and days and days they
climbed, with Shasta ever developing new forms and phases in her summer
snows.

"A moving picture in the sky," said Billy at last.

"Oh,--it is all so beautiful," sighed Saxon. "But there are no
moon-valleys here."

They encountered a plague of butterflies, and for days drove through
untold millions of the fluttering beauties that covered the road with
uniform velvet-brown. And ever the road seemed to rise under the noses
of the snorting mares, filling the air with noiseless flight, drifting
down the breeze in clouds of brown and yellow soft-flaked as snow, and
piling in mounds against the fences, ever driven to float helplessly on
the irrigation ditches along the roadside. Hazel and Hattie soon grew
used to them though Possum never ceased being made frantic.

"Huh!--who ever heard of butterfly-broke horses?" Billy chaffed. "That's
worth fifty bucks more on their price."

"Wait till you get across the Oregon line into the Rogue River
Valley," they were told. "There's God's Paradise--climate, scenery,
and fruit-farming; fruit ranches that yield two hundred per cent. on a
valuation of five hundred dollars an acre."

"Gee!" Billy said, when he had driven on out of hearing; "that's too
rich for our digestion."

And Saxon said, "I don't know about apples in the valley of the moon,
but I do know that the yield is ten thousand per cent. of happiness on a
valuation of one Billy, one Saxon, a Hazel, a Hattie, and a Possum."

Through Siskiyou County and across high mountains, they came to Ashland
and Medford and camped beside the wild Rogue River.

"This is wonderful and glorious," pronounced Saxon; "but it is not the
valley of the moon."

"Nope, it ain't the valley of the moon," agreed Billy, and he said it
on the evening of the day he hooked a monster steelhead, standing to his
neck in the ice-cold water of the Rogue and fighting for forty minutes,
with screaming reel, ere he drew his finny prize to the bank and with
the scalp-yell of a Comanche jumped and clutched it by the gills.

"'Them that looks finds,'" predicted Saxon, as they drew north out of
Grant's Pass, and held north across the mountains and fruitful Oregon
valleys.

One day, in camp by the Umpqua River, Billy bent over to begin skinning
the first deer he had ever shot. He raised his eyes to Saxon and
remarked:

"If I didn't know California, I guess Oregon'd suit me from the ground
up."

In the evening, replete with deer meat, resting on his elbow and smoking
his after-supper cigarette, he said:

"Maybe they ain't no valley of the moon. An' if they ain't, what of it?
We could keep on this way forever. I don't ask nothing better."

"There is a valley of the moon," Saxon answered soberly. "And we are
going to find it. We've got to. Why Billy, it would never do, never to
settle down. There would be no little Hazels and little Hatties, nor
little... Billies--"

"Nor little Saxons," Billy interjected.

And here was manifested the miracle."[16]
I proceed to give, as an example of one of the more violent succors
here spoken of as miraculous, a narrative, not only vouched for by
Montgéron himself as a witness present, but put forth, in the first
instance, by one of the most violent Anti-Succorists, the Abbé
d'Asfeld, in his work already referred to,--and put forth by him
in order to be condemned as a wicked tempting of Providence,[17]
or, worse, an accepting of aid from the Prince of Darkness himself.

It occurred in 1734.

"Here," says the Abbé, "is an example, all the more worthy of
attention, inasmuch as persons of every station and condition,
ecclesiastics, magistrates, ladies of rank, were among the spectators.

Jeanne Moler, a young girl of twenty-two or twenty-three years of age,
standing up with her back resting against a stone wall, an extremely
robust man took an andiron,[18] weighing, as was said, from
twenty-five to thirty pounds, and therewith gave her, with his whole
force, numerous blows on the stomach.

They counted upwards of a hundred at a time. One day a certain friar,
after having given her sixty such blows, tried the same weapon
against a wall; and it is said that at the twenty-fifth blow he
broke an opening through it

."[19]
Dom La Taste, the great opponent of Jansenism, alluding to the same
circumstance, says, "I do not dispute the fact, that the andiron
sunk so deeply that it appeared to penetrate to the very backbone

."[20]
Montgéron, after quoting the above, adds his own testimony, as to
this same occurrence, in these words:--
"As I am not ashamed to confess that I am one of those who have
followed up most closely the work of the convulsions, I freely admit
that I am the person to whom the author alludes, when he speaks of
a certain friar who tried against a wall the effect of blows similar
to those he had given the convulsionist.

My instinct's
stronger'n me. Kill me, but I can't help it."

Saxon was melted. Tears were in her eyes as she stooped and gathered
the mite of an animal in her arms. Possum was in a frenzy of agitation,
whining, trembling, writhing, twisting, licking her face, all for
forgiveness.

"Heart of gold with a rose in his mouth," Saxon crooned, burying her
face in the soft and quivering bundle of sensibilities. "Mother is
sorry. She'll never bother you again that way. There, there, little
love. See? There's your bone. Take it."

She put him down, but he hesitated between her and the bone, patently
looking to her for surety of permission, yet continuing to tremble in
the terrible struggle between duty and desire that seemed tearing him
asunder. Not until she repeated that it was all right and nodded her
head consentingly did he go to the bone. And once, a minute later, he
raised his head with a sudden startle and gazed inquiringly at her.
She nodded and smiled, and Possum, with a happy sigh of satisfaction,
dropped his head down to the precious deer-rib.

"That Mercedes was right when she said men fought over jobs like dogs
over bones," Billy enunciated slowly. "It's instinct. Why, I couldn't
no more help reaching my fist to the point of a scab's jaw than could
Possum from snappin' at you. They's no explainin' it. What a man has to
he has to. The fact that he does a thing shows he had to do it whether
he can explain it or not. You remember Hall couldn't explain why he
stuck that stick between Timothy McManus's legs in the foot race. What
a man has to, he has to. That's all I know about it. I never had no
earthly reason to beat up that lodger we had, Jimmy Harmon. He was a
good guy, square an' all right. But I just had to, with the strike goin'
to smash, an' everything so bitter inside me that I could taste it.
I never told you, but I saw 'm once after I got out--when my arms was
mendin'. I went down to the roundhouse an' waited for 'm to come in
off a run, an' apologized to 'm. Now why did I apologize? I don't know,
except for the same reason I punched 'm--I just had to."

And so Billy expounded the why of like in terms of realism, in the camp
by the Umpqua River, while Possum expounded it, in similar terms of fang
and appetite, on the rib of deer.


CHAPTER XVI

With Possum on the seat beside her, Saxon drove into the town of
Roseburg. She drove at a walk. At the back of the wagon were tied two
heavy young work-horses. Behind, half a dozen more marched free, and
the rear was brought up by Billy, astride a ninth horse. All these he
shipped from Roseburg to the West Oakland stables.

It was in the Umpqua Valley that they heard the parable of the white
sparrow. The farmer who told it was elderly and flourishing. His farm
was a model of orderliness and system. Afterwards, Billy heard neighbors
estimate his wealth at a quarter of a million.

"You've heard the story of the farmer and the white sparrow'" he asked
Billy, at dinner.

"Never heard of a white sparrow even," Billy answered.

"I must say they're pretty rare," the farmer owned. "But here's the
story: Once there was a farmer who wasn't making much of a success.
Things just didn't seem to go right, till at last, one day, he heard
about the wonderful white sparrow. It seems that the white sparrow comes
out only just at daybreak with the first light of dawn, and that it
brings all kinds of good luck to the farmer that is fortunate enough
to catch it. Next morning our farmer was up at daybreak, and before,
looking for it. And, do you know, he sought for it continually, for
months and months, and never caught even a glimpse of it." Their host
shook his head. "No; he never found it, but he found so many things
about the farm needing attention, and which he attended to before
breakfast, that before he knew it the farm was prospering, and it
wasn't long before the mortgage was paid off and he was starting a bank
account."

That afternoon, as they drove along, Billy was plunged in a deep
reverie.

"Oh, I got the point all right," he said finally. "An' yet I ain't
satisfied. Of course, they wasn't a white sparrow, but by getting up
early an' attendin' to things he'd been slack about before--oh, I got it
all right. An' yet, Saxon, if that's what a farmer's life means, I don't
want to find no moon valley. Life ain't hard work. Daylight to dark,
hard at it--might just as well be in the city. What's the difference?
Al' the time you've got to yourself is for sleepin', an' when you're
sleepin' you're not enjoyin' yourself. An' what's it matter where you
sleep, you're deado. Might as well be dead an' done with it as work your
head off that way. I'd sooner stick to the road, an' shoot a deer an'
catch a trout once in a while, an' lie on my back in the shade, an'
laugh with you an' have fun with you, an'... an' go swimmin'. An' I 'm a
willin' worker, too. But they's all the difference in the world between
a decent amount of work an' workin' your head off."

Saxon was in full accord. She looked back on her years of toil and
contrasted them with the joyous life she had lived on the road.

"We don't want to be rich," she said. "Let them hunt their white
sparrows in the Sacramento islands and the irrigation valleys. Those
delicious green patches are yet in my eye. The fountains flowed with
May. Where no springs occurred, there were hints and suggestions of
springs about the fields and by the roadside in the freshened
grass,--sometimes overflowing a space in the form of an actual fountain.
The water did not quite get to the surface in such places, but
sent its influence.

The fields of wheat and rye, too, how they stand out of the April
landscape,--great green squares on a field of brown or gray!

Among April sounds there is none more welcome or suggestive to me than
the voice of the little frogs piping in the marshes. No bird- note can
surpass it as a spring token; and as it is not mentioned, to my knowledge,
by the poets and writers of other lands, I am ready to believe it is
characteristic of our season alone. You may be sure April has really
come when this little amphibian creeps out of the mud and inflates its
throat. We talk of the bird inflating its throat, but you should see
this tiny minstrel inflate _its_ throat, which becomes like a large bubble,
and suggests a drummer- boy with his drum slung very high. In
this drum, or by the aid of it, the sound is produced. Generally the
note is very feeble at first, as if the frost was not yet all out
of the creature's throat, and only one voice will be heard, some
prophet bolder than all the rest, or upon whom the quickening ray
of spring has first fallen.

And it often happens that he is stoned for his pains by the yet unpacified
element, and is compelled literally to "shut up" beneath a fall
of snow or a heavy frost.

Soon, however, he lifts up his voice again with more confidence,
and is joined by others and still others, till in due time, say
toward the last of the month, there is a shrill musical uproar, as
the sun is setting, in every marsh and bog in the land.

It is a plaintive sound, and I have heard people from the city speak
of it as lonesome and depressing, but to the lover of the country
it is a pure spring melody.

The little piper will sometimes climb a bulrush, to which he clings like
a sailor to a mast, and send forth his shrill call. There is a
Southern species, heard when you have reached the Potomac, whose
note is far more harsh and crackling.

To stand on the verge of a swamp vocal with these, pains and stuns
the ear.

The call of the Northern species is far more tender and musical.

[Footnote: The Southern species is called the green hyla. I have since
heard them in my neighborhood on the Hudson.]

Then is there anything like a perfect April morning? One hardly knows
what the sentiment of it is, but it is something very delicious.

It is youth and hope. It is a new earth and a new sky.
How the air transmits sounds, and what an awakening, prophetic character
all sounds have!

The distant barking of a dog, or the lowing of a cow, or the crowing
of a cock, seems from out the heart of Nature, and to be a call to
come forth.

The great sun appears to have been reburnished, and there is something
in his first glance above the eastern hills, and the way his eye-beams
dart right and left and smite the rugged mountains into gold, that
quickens the pulse and inspires the heart.

Across the fields in the early morning I hear some of the rare April
birds,--the chewink and the brown thrasher.

The robin, the bluebird, the song sparrow, the phoebe-bird, come
in March; but these two ground-birds are seldom heard till toward
the last of April.

The ground-birds are all tree-singers or air-singers; they must have an
elevated stage to speak from.

That's why fog
in the climate is best."

"Then we've been drunk for months," Saxon said. "And now we're going to
sober up."

"You bet. Why, Saxon, I can do two days' work in one in this
climate.--Look at the mares. Blame me if they ain't perkin' up already."

Vainly Saxon's eye roved the pine forest in search of her beloved
redwoods. They would find them down in California, they were told in the
town of Bandon.

"Then we're too far north," said Saxon. "We must go south to find our
valley of the moon."

And south they went, along roads that steadily grew worse, through the
dairy country of Langlois and through thick pine forests to Port Orford,
where Saxon picked jeweled agates on the beach while Billy caught
enormous rockcod. No railroads had yet penetrated this wild region, and
the way south grew wilder and wilder. At Gold Beach they encountered
their old friend, the Rogue River, which they ferried across where
it entered the Pacific. Still wilder became the country, still more
terrible the road, still farther apart the isolated farms and clearings.

And here were neither Asiatics nor Europeans. The scant population
consisted of the original settlers and their descendants. More than one
old man or woman Saxon talked with, who could remember the trip across
the Plains with the plodding oxen. West they had fared until the Pacific
itself had stopped them, and here they had made their clearings, built
their rude houses, and settled. In them Farthest West had been reached.
Old customs had changed little. There were no railways. No automobile
as yet had ventured their perilous roads. Eastward, between them and the
populous interior valleys, lay the wilderness of the Coast Range--a game
paradise, Billy heard; though he declared that the very road he traveled
was game paradise enough for him. Had he not halted the horses, turned
the reins over to Saxon, and shot an eight-pronged buck from the
wagon-seat?

South of Gold Beach, climbing a narrow road through the virgin forest,
they heard from far above the jingle of bells. A hundred yards farther
on Billy found a place wide enough to turn out. Here he waited, while
the merry bells, descending the mountain, rapidly came near. They heard
the grind of brakes, the soft thud of horses' hoofs, once a sharp cry of
the driver, and once a woman's laughter.

"Some driver, some driver," Billy muttered. "I take my hat off to 'm
whoever he is, hittin' a pace like that on a road like this.--Listen
to that! He's got powerful brakes.--Zocie! That WAS a chuck-hole! Some
springs, Saxon, some springs!"

Where the road zigzagged above, they glimpsed through the trees four
sorrel horses trotting swiftly, and the flying wheels of a small,
tan-painted trap.

At the bend of the road the leaders appeared again, swinging wide on
the curve, the wheelers flashed into view, and the light two-seated
rig; then the whole affair straightened out and thundered down upon them
across a narrow plank-bridge. In the front seat were a man and woman; in
the rear seat a Japanese was squeezed in among suit cases, rods, guns,
saddles, and a typewriter case, while above him and all about him,
fastened most intricately, sprouted a prodigious crop of deer- and
elk-horns.

"It's Mr. and Mrs. Hastings," Saxon cried.

"Whoa!" Hastings yelled, putting on the brake and gathering his horses
in to a stop alongside. Greetings flew back and forth, in which the
Japanese, whom they had last seen on the Roamer at Rio Vista, gave and
received his share.

"Different from the Sacramento islands, eh?" Hastings said to Saxon.
"Nothing but old American stock in these mountains. And they haven't
changed any. As John Fox, Jr., said, they're our contemporary ancestors.
Our old folks were just like them."

Mr. and Mrs. Hastings, between them, told of their long drive. They were
out two months then, and intended to continue north through Oregon and
Washington to the Canadian boundary.

"Then we'll ship our horses and come home by train," concluded Hastings.

"But the way you drive you oughta be a whole lot further along than
this," Billy criticized.

"But we keep stopping off everywhere," Mrs. Hastings explained.

"We went in to the Hoopa Reservation," said Mr. Elastings, "and canoed
down the Trinity and Klamath Rivers to the ocean. And just now we've
come out from two weeks in the real wilds of Curry County."

"You must go in," Hastings advised. "You'll get to Mountain Ranch
to-night. And you can turn in from there. No roads, though. You'll have
to pack your horses. But it's full of game. I shot five mountain lions
and two bear, to say nothing of deer. And there are small herds of elk,
too.--No; I didn't shoot any. They're protected. These horns I got from
the old hunters. I'll tell you all about it."

And while the men talked, Saxon and Mrs. Hastings were not idle.

"Found your valley of the moon yet?" the writer's wife asked, as they
were saying good-by.

Saxon shook her head.

"You will find it if you go far enough; and be sure you go as far as
Sonoma Valley and our ranch. Then, if you haven't found it yet, we'll
see what we can do."

Three weeks later, with a bigger record of mountain lions and bear
than Hastings' to his credit, Billy emerged from Curry County and drove
across the line into California. At once Saxon found herself among the
redwoods. But they were redwoods unbelievable. Billy stopped the wagon,
got out, and paced around one.

"Forty-five feet," he announced. "That's fifteen in diameter. And
they're all like it only bigger. No; there's a runt. It's only about
nine feet through. An' they're hundreds of feet tall."

"When I die, Billy, you must bury me in a redwood grove," Saxon adjured.

"I ain't goin' to let you die before I do," he assured her. "An' then
we'll leave it in our wills for us both to be buried that way."


CHAPTER XVII

South they held along the coast, hunting, fishing, swimming, and
horse-buying. Billy shipped his purchases on the coasting steamers.
Through Del Norte and Humboldt counties they went, and through Mendocino
into Sonoma--counties larger than Eastern states--threading the giant
woods, whipping innumerable trout-streams, and crossing countless rich
valleys. Ever Saxon sought the valley of the moon. Sometimes, when all
seemed fair, the lack was a railroad, sometimes madrono and manzanita
trees, and, usually, there was too much fog.

"We do want a sun-cocktail once in a while," she told Billy.

"Yep," was his answer. "Too much fog might make us soggy. What we're
after is betwixt an' between, an' we'll have to get back from the coast
a ways to find it."

This was in the fall of the year, and they turned their backs on the
Pacific at old Fort Ross and entered the Russian River Valley, far
below Ukiah, by way of Cazadero and Guerneville. At Santa Rosa Billy was
delayed with the shipping of several horses, so that it was not until
afternoon that he drove south and east for Sonoma Valley.

"I guess we'll no more than make Sonoma Valley when it'll be time to
camp," he said, measuring the sun with his eye. "This is called Bennett
Valley. You cross a divide from it and come out at Glen Ellen. Now this
is a mighty pretty valley, if anybody should ask you. An' that's some
nifty mountain over there."

"The mountain is all right," Saxon adjudged. "But all the rest of the
hills are too bare. And I don't see any big trees. It takes rich soil to
make big trees."

"Oh, I ain't sayin' it's the valley of the moon by a long ways. All
the same, Saxon, that's some mountain. Look at the timber on it. I bet
they's deer there."

"I wonder where we'll spend this winter," Saxon remarked.

"D'ye know, I've just been thinkin' the same thing. Let's winter at
Carmel. Mark Hall's back, an' so is Jim Hazard. What d'ye say?"

Saxon nodded.

"Only you won't be the odd-job man this time."

"Nope. We can make trips in good weather horse-buyin'," Billy confirmed,
his face beaming with self-satisfaction. "An' if that walkin' poet of
the Marble House is around, I'll sure get the gloves on with 'm just in
memory of the time he walked me off my legs--"

"Oh! Oh!" Saxon cried. "Look, Billy! Look!"

Around a bend in the road came a man in a sulky, driving a heavy
stallion. The animal was a bright chestnut-sorrel, with cream-colored
mane and tail. The tail almost swept the ground, while the mane was so
thick that it crested out of the neck and flowed down, long and wavy. He
scented the mares and stopped short, head flung up and armfuls of creamy
mane tossing in the breeze. He bent his head until flaring nostrils
brushed impatient knees, and between the fine-pointed ears could be
seen a mighty and incredible curve of neck. Again he tossed his head,
fretting against the bit as the driver turned widely aside for safety
in passing. They could see the blue glaze like a sheen on the surface
of the horse's bright, wild eyes, and Billy closed a wary thumb on his
reins and himself turned widely. He held up his hand in signal, and the
driver of the stallion stopped when well past, and over his shoulder
talked draught-horses with Billy.

Among other things, Billy learned that the stallion's name was
Barbarossa, that the driver was the owner, and that Santa Rosa was his
headquarters.

"There are two ways to Sonoma Valley from here," the man directed. "When
you come to the crossroads the turn to the left will take you to Glen
Ellen by Bennett Peak--that's it there."

Rising from rolling stubble fields, Bennett Peak towered hot in the sun,
a row of bastion hills leaning against its base. But hills and mountains
on that side showed bare and heated, though beautiful with the sunburnt
tawniness of California.

"The turn to the right will take you to Glen Ellen, too, only it's
longer and steeper grades. But your mares don't look as though it'd
bother them."

"Which is the prettiest way?" Saxon asked.

"Oh, the right hand road, by all means," said the man. "That's Sonoma
Mountain there, and the road skirts it pretty well up, and goes through
Cooper's Grove."

Billy did not start immediately after they had said good-by, and he
and Saxon, heads over shoulders, watched the roused Barbarossa plunging
mutinously on toward Santa Rosa.

"Gee!" Billy said. "I'd like to be up here next spring."

At the crossroads Billy hesitated and looked at Saxon.

"What if it is longer?" she said. "Look how beautiful it is--all covered
with green woods; and I just know those are redwoods in the canyons.
You never can tell. The valley of the moon might be right up there
somewhere. And it would never do to miss it just in order to save half
an hour."

They took the turn to the right and began crossing a series of steep
foothills. As they approached the mountain there were signs of a greater
abundance of water. They drove beside a running stream, and, though the
vineyards on the hills were summer-dry, the farmhouses in the hollows
and on the levels were grouped about with splendid trees.

"Maybe it sounds funny," Saxon observed; "but I 'm beginning to love
that mountain already. It almost seems as if I d seen it before,
somehow, it's so all-around satisfying--oh!"

Crossing a bridge and rounding a sharp turn, they were suddenly
enveloped in a mysterious coolness and gloom. All about them arose
stately trunks of redwood. The forest floor was a rosy carpet of autumn
fronds. Occasional shafts of sunlight, penetrating the deep shade,
warmed the somberness of the grove. Alluring paths led off among the
trees and into cozy nooks made by circles of red columns growing around
the dust of vanished ancestors--witnessing the titantic dimensions of
those ancestors by the girth of the circles in which they stood.

Out of the grove they pulled to the steep divide, which was no more than
a buttress of Sonoma Mountain. The way led on through rolling uplands
and across small dips and canyons, all well wooded and a-drip with
water. In places the road was muddy from wayside springs.

"The mountain's a sponge," said Billy. "Here it is, the tail-end of dry
summer, an' the ground's just leakin' everywhere."

"I know I've never been here before," Saxon communed aloud. "But it's
all so familiar! So I must have dreamed it. And there's madronos!--a
whole grove! And manzanita! Why, I feel just as if I was coming home...
Oh, Billy, if it should turn out to be our valley."

"Plastered against the side of a mountain?" he queried, with a skeptical
laugh.

"No; I don't mean that. I mean on the way to our valley. Because the
way--all ways--to our valley must be beautiful. And this; I've seen it
all before, dreamed it."

"It's great," he said sympathetically. "I wouldn't trade a square mile
of this kind of country for the whole Sacramento Valley, with the river
islands thrown in and Middle River for good measure. If they ain't deer
up there, I miss my guess. An' where they's springs they's streams, an'
streams means trout."

They passed a large and comfortable farmhouse, surrounded by wandering
barns and cow-sheds, went on under forest arches, and emerged beside a
field with which Saxon was instantly enchanted. It flowed in a gentle
concave from the road up the mountain, its farther boundary an unbroken
line of timber. The field glowed like rough gold in the approaching
sunset, and near the middle of it stood a solitary great redwood, with
blasted top suggesting a nesting eyrie for eagles. The timber beyond
clothed the mountain in solid green to what they took to be the top.
But, as they drove on, Saxon, looking back upon what she called her
field, saw the real summit of Sonoma towering beyond, the mountain
behind her field a mere spur upon the side of the larger mass.

Ahead and toward the right, across sheer ridges of the mountains,
separated by deep green canyons and broadening lower down into rolling
orchards and vineyards, they caught their first sight of Sonoma Valley
and the wild mountains that rimmed its eastern side. To the left they
gazed across a golden land of small hills and valleys. Beyond, to the
north, they glimpsed another portion of the valley, and, still beyond,
the opposing wall of the valley--a range of mountains, the highest of
which reared its red and battered ancient crater against a rosy and
mellowing sky. From north to southeast, the mountain rim curved in the
brightness of the sun, while Saxon and Billy were already in the shadow
of evening. He looked at Saxon, noted the ravished ecstasy of her face,
and stopped the horses. All the eastern sky was blushing to rose, which
descended upon the mountains, touching them with wine and ruby. Sonoma
Valley began to fill with a purple flood, laying the mountain bases,
rising, inundating, drowning them in its purple. Saxon pointed in
silence, indicating that the purple flood was the sunset shadow of
Sonoma Mountain. Billy nodded, then chirruped to the mares, and the
descent began through a warm and colorful twilight.

On the elevated sections of the road they felt the cool, delicious
breeze from the Pacific forty miles away; while from each little dip and
hollow came warm breaths of autumn earth, spicy with sunburnt grass and
fallen leaves and passing flowers.

They came to the rim of a deep canyon that seemed to penetrate to
the heart of Sonoma Mountain. Again, with no word spoken, merely
from watching Saxon, Billy stopped the wagon. The canyon was wildly
beautiful. Tall redwoods lined its entire length. On its farther rim
stood three rugged knolls covered with dense woods of spruce and oak.
From between the knolls, a feeder to the main canyon and likewise
fringed with redwoods, emerged a smaller canyon. Billy pointed to a
stubble field that lay at the feet of the knolls.

"It's in fields like that I've seen my mares a-pasturing," he said.

They dropped down into the canyon, the road following a stream that
sang under maples and alders. Only when the musical fit is upon it
does it come up into full view, and invite the world to hear and
behold.

The chewink is a shy bird also, but not stealthy. It is very inquisitive,
and sets up a great scratching among the leaves, apparently to
attract your attention. The male is perhaps the most conspicuously
marked of all the ground-birds except the bobolink, being black above,
bay on the sides, and white beneath. The bay is in compliment to the
leaves he is forever scratching among,--they have rustled against
his breast and sides so long that these parts have taken their
color; but whence come the white and the black?

The bird seems to be aware that his color betrays him, for there
are few birds in the woods so careful about keeping themselves
screened from view.

When in song, its favorite perch is the top of some high bush near
to cover.

On being disturbed at such times, it pitches down into the brush
and is instantly lost to view.

This is the bird that Thomas Jefferson wrote to Wilson about, greatly
exciting the latter's curiosity.

Wilson was just then upon the threshold of his career as an ornithologist,
and had made a drawing of the Canada jay which he sent to the President.
It was a new bird, and in reply Jefferson called his attention to
a "curious bird" which was everywhere to be heard, but scarcely
ever to be seen.

He had for twenty years interested the young sportsmen of his
neighborhood to shoot one for him, but without success.

"It is in all the forests, from spring to fall," he says in his
letter, "and never but on the tops of the tallest trees, from which
it perpetually serenades us with some of the sweetest notes, and
as clear as those of the nightingale.

I have followed it for miles, without ever but once getting a good
view of it.

It is of the size and make of the mockingbird, lightly thrush-colored
on the back, and a grayish white on the breast and belly.

Mr.

Randolph, my son- in-law, was in possession of one which had been
shot by a neighbor," etc.

Randolph pronounced it a flycatcher, which was a good way wide of
the mark.

Jefferson must have seen only the female, after all his tramp, from his
description of the color; but he was doubtless following his own
great thoughts more than the bird, else he would have had an earlier
view.

The bird was not a new one, but was well known then as the ground-robin.

The President put Wilson on the wrong scent by his erroneous
description, and it was a long time before the latter got at the
truth of the case.

But Jefferson's letter is a good sample of those which specialists
often receive from intelligent persons who have seen or heard
something in their line very curious or entirely new, and who set
the man of science agog by a description of the supposed novelty,--
a description that generally fits the facts of the case about as
well as your coat fits the chair-back.

Strange and curious things in the air, and in the water, and in the earth
beneath, are seen every day except by those who are looking for
them, namely, the naturalists.

When Wilson or Audubon gets his eye on the unknown bird, the illusion
vanishes, and your phenomenon turns out to be one of the commonplaces
of the fields or woods.

A prominent April bird, that one does not have to go to the woods or away
from his own door to see and hear, is the hardy and ever- welcome
meadowlark. What a twang there is about this bird, and what vigor!
It smacks of the soil. It is the winged embodiment of the spirit
of our spring meadows. What emphasis in its _"z-d-t, z-d-t"_ and what
character in its long, piercing note! Its straight, tapering, sharp beak
is typical of its voice. Its note goes like a shaft from a crossbow;
it is a little too sharp and piercing when near at hand, but, heard in
the proper perspective, it is eminently melodious and pleasing. It is
one of the major notes of the fields at this season. In fact, it easily
dominates all others. _"Spring o' the year! spring o' the year!"_ it says,
with a long-drawn breath, a little plaintive, but not complaining or
melancholy. At times it indulges in something much more intricate
and lark-like while hovering on the wing in midair, but a song is
beyond the compass of its instrument, and the attempt usually ends
in a breakdown.

A clear, sweet, strong, high-keyed note, uttered from some knoll or
rock, or stake in the fence, is its proper vocal performance. It has
the build and walk and flight of the quail and the grouse. It gets up
before you in much the same manner, and falls an easy prey to the
crack shot. Its yellow breast, surmounted by a black crescent, it need
not be ashamed to turn to the morning sun, while its coat of mottled
gray is in perfect keeping with the stubble amid which it walks.

The two lateral white quills in its tail seem strictly in character.

These quills spring from a dash of scorn and defiance in the bird's make-up.
By the aid of these, it can almost emit a flash as it struts about
the fields and jerks out its sharp notes.

They give a rayed, a definite and piquant expression to its movements.
This bird is not properly a lark, but a starling, say the ornithologists,
though it is lark-like in its habits, being a walker and entirely
a ground-bird.

Its color also allies it to the true lark. I believe there is no bird in
the English or European fields that answers to this hardy pedestrian
of our meadows.

He is a true American, and his note one of our characteristic April
sounds.

Another marked April note, proceeding sometimes from the meadows, but
more frequently from the rough pastures and borders of the woods, is
the call of the high-hole, or golden-shafted woodpecker.
It is quite as strong as that of the meadowlark, but not so long-
drawn and piercing.

It is a succession of short notes rapidly uttered, as if the bird
said _"if-if-if-if-if-if-if

."_ The notes of the ordinary downy and hairy woodpeckers suggest, in
some way.
the sound of a steel punch; but that of the high-hole is much softer,
and strikes on the ear with real springtime melody.

The high-hole is not so much a wood-pecker as he is a ground-pecker.

He subsists largely on ants and crickets, and does not appear till they
are to be found.

In Solomon's description of spring, the voice of the turtle is prominent,
but our turtle, or mourning dove, though it arrives in April, can
hardly be said to contribute noticeably to the open-air sounds. Its
call is so vague, and soft, and mournful,--in fact, so remote and
diffused,--that few persons ever hear it at all.

Such songsters as the cow blackbird are noticeable at this season,
though they take a back seat a little later.

It utters a peculiarly liquid April sound. Indeed, one would think
its crop was full of water, its notes so bubble up and regurgitate, and
are delivered with such an apparent stomachic contraction.

This bird is the only feathered polygamist we have. The females are
greatly in excess of the males, and the latter are usually attended
by three or four of the former.

As soon as the other birds begin to build, they are on the _qui vive,_
prowling about like gypsies, not to steal the young of others, but
to steal their eggs into other birds' nests, and so shirk the labor
and responsibility of hatching and rearing their own young.

As these birds do not mate, and as therefore there can be little
or no rivalry or competition between the males, one wonders--in
view of Darwin's teaching--why one sex should have brighter and
richer plumage than the other, which is the fact.

The males are easily distinguished from the dull and faded females
by their deep glossy-black coats.

The April of English literature corresponds nearly to our May.

In Great Britain, the swallow and the cuckoo usually arrive by the
middle of April; with us, their appearance is a week or two later.
Our April, at its best, is a bright, laughing face under a hood of snow,
like the English March, but presenting sharper contrasts, a greater
mixture of smiles and tears and icy looks than are known to our
ancestral climate.

Indeed, Winter sometimes retraces his steps in this month, and unburdens
himself of the snows that the previous cold has kept back; but we
are always sure of a number of radiant, equable days,--days that
go before the bud, when the sun embraces the earth with fervor and
determination.

How his beams pour into the woods till the mould under the leaves is
warm and emits an odor! The waters glint and sparkle, the birds gather
in groups, and even those unused to singing find a voice.

On the streets of the cities, what a flutter, what bright looks
and gay colors! I recall one preeminent day of this kind last April.
I made a note of it in my note-book.

The earth seemed suddenly to emerge from a wilderness of clouds and
chilliness into one of these blue sunlit spaces.

How the voyagers rejoiced! Invalids came forth, old men sauntered down
the street, stocks went up, and the political outlook brightened.

Such days bring out the last of the hibernating animals.

The woodchuck unrolls and creeps out of his den to see if his clover
has started yet.

The torpidity leaves the snakes and the turtles, and they come
forth and bask in the sun.

There is nothing so small, nothing so great, that it does not respond
to these celestial spring days, and give the pendulum of life a
fresh start.

April is also the month of the new furrow. As soon as the frost is
gone and the ground settled, the plow is started upon the hill,
and at each bout I see its brightened mould-board flash in the
sun.
Where the last remnants of the snowdrift lingered yesterday the
plow breaks the sod to-day.

Where the drift was deepest the grass is pressed flat, and there
is a deposit of sand and earth blown from the fields to windward.

Line upon line the turf is reversed, until there stands out of the neutral
landscape a ruddy square visible for miles, or until the breasts
of the broad hills glow like the breasts of the robins.

Then who would not have a garden in April?

to rake together the rubbish and burn it up, to turn over the renewed
soil, to scatter the rich compost, to plant the first seed, or bury
the first tuber!

It is not the seed that is planted, any more than it is I that is planted;
it is not the dry stalks and weeds that are burned up, any more than
it is my gloom and regrets that are consumed. An April smoke makes a
clean harvest.

I think April is the best month to be born in. One is just in time, so
to speak, to catch the first train, which is made up in this month. My
April chickens always turn out best.

They get an early start; they have rugged constitutions. Late chickens
cannot stand the heavy dews, or withstand the predaceous hawks.

In April all nature starts with you. You have not come out of your
hibernaculum too early or too late; the time is ripe, and, if you do
not keep pace with the rest, why, the fault is not in the season.

V SPRING POEMS
There is no month oftener on the tongues of the poets than April.

It is the initiative month; it opens the door of the seasons; the interest
and expectations of the untried, the untasted, lurk in it,
"From you have I been absent in the spring,"
says Shakespeare in one of his sonnets,--
"When proud-pied April, dressed in all his trim, Hath put a spirit
of youth in everything, That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with
him."

The following poem, from Tennyson's "In Memoriam," might be headed
"April," and serve as descriptive of parts of our season:--
"Now fades the last long streak of snow, Now bourgeons every maze
of quick About the flowering squares, and thick By ashen roots the
violets blow.

"Now rings the woodland loud and long, The distance takes a lovelier hue,
And drowned in yonder living blue The lark becomes a sightless
song.

"Now dance the lights on lawn and lea, The flocks are whiter down
the vale, And milkier every milky sail On winding stream or distant
sea;

"Where now the sea-mew pipes, or dives In yonder greening gleam, and fly
The happy birds, that change their sky To build and brood; that
live their lives
"From land to land; and in my breast Spring wakens too; and my
regret Becomes an April violet, And buds and blossoms like the
rest."

In the same poem the poet asks:--
"Can trouble live with April days?"

Yet they are not all jubilant chords that this season awakens.
Occasionally there is an undertone of vague longing and sadness,
akin to that which one experiences in autumn. Hope for a moment assumes
the attitude of memory and stands with reverted look.

The haze, that in spring as well as in fall sometimes descends and
envelops all things, has in it in some way the sentiment of music, of
melody, and awakens pensive thoughts.

Elizabeth Akers, in her "April," has recognized and fully expressed this
feeling. I give the first and last stanzas:--
"The strange, sweet days are here again, The happy-mournful days;
The songs which trembled on our lips Are half complaint, half
praise.

"Swing, robin, on the budded sprays, And sing your blithest tune;--
Help us across these homesick days Into the joy of June!"

This poet has also given a touch of spring in her "March," which,
however, should be written "April" in the New England climate:--

"The brown buds thicken on the trees, Unbound, the free streams
sing, As March leads forth across the leas The wild and windy
spring.

"Where in the fields the melted snow Leaves hollows warm and wet, Ere
many days will sweetly blow The first blue violet."
But on the whole the poets have not been eminently successful in
depicting spring. The humid season, with its tender, melting blue
sky, its fresh, earthy smells, its new furrow, its few simple signs
and awakenings here and there, and its strange feeling of unrest,--
how difficult to put its charms into words! None of the so-called
pastoral poets have succeeded in doing it. That is the best part of spring
which escapes a direct and matter-of-fact description of her.

There is more of spring in a line or two of Chaucer and Spenser than in
the elaborate portraits of her by Thomson or Pope, because the
former had spring in their hearts, and the latter only in their
inkhorns.

Nearly all Shakespeare's songs are spring songs,--full of the banter,
the frolic, and the love-making of the early season. What an unloosed
current, too, of joy and fresh new life and appetite in Burns!

In spring everything has such a margin! there are such spaces of
silence!

The influences are at work underground. Our delight is in a few things.
The drying road is enough; a single wild flower, the note of the first
bird, the partridge drumming in the April woods, the restless herds,
the sheep steering for the uplands, the cow lowing in the highway or
hiding her calf in the bushes, the first fires, the smoke going up
through the shining atmosphere, from the burning of rubbish in gardens
and old fields,--each of these simple things fills the breast with
yearning and delight, for they are tokens of the spring. The best spring
poems have this singleness and sparseness. Listen to Solomon: "For lo,
the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on
the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come, and the voice of the
turtle is heard in the land." In Wordsworth are some things that breathe
the air of spring. These lines, written in early spring, afford a good
specimen:--
"I heard a thousand blended notes, While in a grove I sate reclined, In
that sweet mood when pleasant thoughts Bring sad thoughts to the mind."

"To her fair works did Nature link The human soul that through me ran;
And much it grieved my heart to think What man has made of man.

"Through primrose tufts, in that green bower, The periwinkle trailed
its wreaths; And 't is my faith that every flower Enjoys the air it
breathes.

"The birds around me hopped and played, Their thoughts I cannot
measure:
But the least motion which they made It seemed a thrill of pleasure."

Or these from another poem, written in his usual study, "Out-of- Doors,"
and addressed to his sister:--

"It is the first mild day of March, Each minute sweeter than before;
The redbreast sings from the tall larch That stands beside the door.

They crossed a bright hall, and found the big beautiful husband lying
back reading in a huge Mission rocker. Beside it was another tiny
child's chair of red-enameled rattan. Along the length of his thigh, the
head on his knee and directed toward a smoldering log in a fireplace,
clung an incredibly large striped cat. Like its master, it turned its
head to greet the newcomers. Again Saxon felt the loving benediction
that abided in his face, his eyes, his hands--toward which she
involuntarily dropped her eyes. Again she was impressed by the
gentleness of them. They were hands of love. They were the hands of a
type of man she had never dreamed existed. No one in that merry crowd of
Carmel had prefigured him. They were artists. This was the scholar,
the philosopher. In place of the passion of youth and all youth's mad
revolt, was the benignance of wisdom. Those gentle hands had passed all
the bitter by and plucked only the sweet of life. Dearly as she loved
them, she shuddered to think what some of those Carmelites would be like
when they were as old as he--especially the dramatic critic and the Iron
Man.

"Here are the dear children, Edmund," Mrs. Hale said. "What do you
think! They want to buy the Madrono Ranch. They've been three years
searching for it--I forgot to tell them we had searched ten years for
Trillium Covert. Tell them all about it. Surely Mr. Naismith is still of
a mind to sell!"

They seated themselves in simple massive chairs, and Mrs. Hale took the
tiny rattan beside the big Mission rocker, her slender hand curled like
a tendril in Edmund's. And while Saxon listened to the talk, her eyes
took in the grave rooms lined with books. She began to realize how
a mere structure of wood and stone may express the spirit of him who
conceives and makes it. Those gentle hands had made all this--the very
furniture, she guessed as her eyes roved from desk to chair, from work
table to reading stand beside the bed in the other room, where stood a
green-shaded lamp and orderly piles of magazines and books.

As for the matter of Madrono Ranch, it was easy enough he was saying.
Naismith would sell. Had desired to sell for the past five years, ever
since he had engaged in the enterprise of bottling mineral water at the
springs lower down the valley. It was fortunate that he was the
owner, for about all the rest of the surrounding land was owned by a
Frenchman--an early settler. He would not part with a foot of it. He was
a peasant, with all the peasant's love of the soil, which, in him, had
become an obsession, a disease. He was a land-miser. With no business
capacity, old and opinionated, he was land poor, and it was an open
question which would arrive first, his death or bankruptcy.

As for Madrono Ranch, Naismith owned it and had set the price at fifty
dollars an acre. That would be one thousand dollars, for there were
twenty acres. As a farming investment, using old-fashioned methods, it
was not worth it. As a business investment, yes; for the virtues of the
valley were on the eve of being discovered by the outside world, and
no better location for a summer home could be found. As a happiness
investment in joy of beauty and climate, it was worth a thousand times
the price asked. And he knew Naismith would allow time on most of the
amount. Edmund's suggestion was that they take a two years' lease, with
option to buy, the rent to apply to the purchase if they took it up.
Naismith had done that once with a Swiss, who had paid a monthly rental
of ten dollars. But the man's wife had died, and he had gone away.

Edmund soon divined Billy's renunciation, though not the nature of it;
and several questions brought it forth--the old pioneer dream of land
spaciousness; of cattle on a hundred hills; one hundred and sixty acres
of land the smallest thinkable division.

"But you don't need all that land, dear lad," Edmund said softly. "I
see you understand intensive farming. Have you thought about intensive
horse-raising?"

Billy's jaw dropped at the smashing newness of the idea. He considered
it, but could see no similarity in the two processes. Unbelief leaped
into his eyes.

"You gotta show me!" he cried.

The elder man smiled gently.

"Let us see. In the first place, you don't need those twenty acres
except for beauty. There are five acres in the meadow. You don't need
more than two of them to make your living at selling vegetables. In
fact, you and your wife, working from daylight to dark, cannot properly
farm those two acres. Remains three acres. You have plenty of water for
it from the springs. Don't be satisfied with one crop a year, like the
rest of the old-fashioned farmers in this valley. Farm it like
your vegetable plot, intensively, all the year, in crops that make
horse-feed, irrigating, fertilizing, rotating your crops. Those three
acres will feed as many horses as heaven knows how huge an area of
unseeded, uncared for, wasted pasture would feed. Think it over. I'll
lend you books on the subject. I don't know how large your crops will
be, nor do I know how much a horse eats; that's your business. But I am
certain, with a hired man to take your place helping your wife on her
two acres of vegetables, that by the time you own the horses your three
acres will feed, you will have all you can attend to. Then it will be
time to get more land, for more horses, for more riches, if that way
happiness lie."

Billy understood. In his enthusiasm he dashed out:

"You're some farmer."

Edmund smiled and glanced toward his wife.

"Give him your opinion of that, Annette."

Her blue eyes twinkled as she complied.

"Why, the dear, he never farms. He has never farmed. But he knows." She
waved her hand about the booklined walls. "He is a student of good. He
studies all good things done by good men under the sun. His pleasure is
in books and wood-working."

"Don't forget Dulcie," Edmund gently protested.

"Yes, and Dulcie." Annette laughed. "Dulcie is our cow. It is a great
question with Jack Hastings whether Edmund dotes more on Dulcie, or
Dulcie dotes more on Edmund. When he goes to San Francisco Dulcie is
miserable. So is Edmund, until he hastens back. Oh, Dulcie has given me
no few jealous pangs. But I have to confess he understands her as no one
else does."

"That is the one practical subject I know by experience," Edmund
confirmed. "I am an authority on Jersey cows. Call upon me any time for
counsel."

He stood up and went toward his book-shelves; and they saw how
magnificently large a man he was. He paused a book in his hand, to
answer a question from Saxon. No; there were no mosquitoes, although,
one summer when the south wind blew for ten days--an unprecedented
thing--a few mosquitoes had been carried up from San Pablo Bay. As for
fog, it was the making of the valley. And where they were situated,
sheltered behind Sonoma Mountain, the fogs were almost invariably high
fogs. Sweeping in from the ocean forty miles away, they were deflected
by Sonoma Mountain and shunted high into the air. Another thing,
Trillium Covert and Madrono Ranch were happily situated in a narrow
thermal belt, so that in the frosty mornings of winter the temperature
was always several degrees higher than in the rest of the valley. In
fact, frost was very rare in the thermal belt, as was proved by the
successful cultivation of certain orange and lemon trees.

Edmund continued reading titles and selecting books until he had drawn
out quite a number. He opened the top one, Bolton Hall's "Three Acres
and Liberty," and read to them of a man who walked six hundred and fifty
miles a year in cultivating, by old-fashioned methods, twenty acres,
from which he harvested three thousand bushels of poor potatoes; and of
another man, a "new" farmer, who cultivated only five acres, walked two
hundred miles, and produced three thousand bushels of potatoes, early
and choice, which he sold at many times the price received by the first
man.

Saxon receded the books from Edmund, and, as she heaped them in Billy's
arms, read the titles. They were: Wickson's "California Fruits,"
Wickson's "California Vegetables," Brooks' "Fertilizers," Watson's
"Farm Poultry," King's "Irrigation and Drainage," Kropotkin's "Fields,
Factories and Workshops," and Farmer's Bulletin No. 22 on "The Feeding
of Farm Animals."

"Come for more any time you want them," Edmund invited. "I have hundreds
of volumes on farming, and all the Agricultural Bulletins... . And you
must come and get acquainted with Dulcie your first spare time," he
called after them out the door.


CHAPTER XIX

Mrs. Mortimer arrived with seed catalogs and farm books, to find Saxon
immersed in the farm books borrowed from Edmund. Saxon showed her
around, and she was delighted with everything, including the terms of
the lease and its option to buy.

"And now," she said. "What is to be done? Sit down, both of you. This is
a council of war, and I am the one person in the world to tell you what
to do. I ought to be. Anybody who has reorganized and recatalogued a
great city library should be able to start you young people on in short
order. Now, where shall we begin?"

She paused for breath of consideration.

"First, Madrono Ranch is a bargain. I know soil, I know beauty, I
know climate. Madrono Ranch is a gold mine. There is a fortune in that
meadow. Tilth--I'll tell you about that later. First, here's the
land. Second, what are you going to do with it? Make a living? Yes.
Vegetables? Of course. What are you going to do with them after you have
grown them? Sell. Where?--Now listen. You must do as I did. Cut out the
middle man. Sell directly to the consumer. Drum up your own market.
Do you know what I saw from the car windows coming up the valley,
only several miles from here? Hotels, springs, summer resorts, winter
resorts--population, mouths, market. How is that market supplied? I
looked in vain for truck gardens.--Billy, harness up your horses and
be ready directly after dinner to take Saxon and me driving. Never mind
everything else. Let things stand. What's the use of starting for a
place of which you haven't the address. We'll look for the address
this afternoon. Then we'll know where we are--at."--The last syllable a
smiling concession to Billy.

But Saxon did not accompany them. There was too much to be done in
cleaning the long-abandoned house and in preparing an arrangement for
Mrs. Mortimer to sleep. And it was long after supper time when Mrs.
Mortimer and Billy returned.

"You lucky, lucky children," she began immediately. "This valley is just
waking up. Here's your market. There isn't a competitor in the valley.
I thought those resorts looked new--Caliente, Boyes Hot Springs, El
Verano, and all along the line. Then there are three little hotels in
Glen Ellen, right next door. Oh, I've talked with all the owners and
managers."

"She's a wooz," Billy admired. "She'd brace up to God on a business
proposition. You oughta seen her."

Mrs. Mortimer acknowledged the compliment and dashed on.

"And where do all the vegetables come from? Wagons drive down twelve to
fifteen miles from Santa Rosa, and up from Sonoma. Those are the nearest
truck farms, and when they fail, as they often do, I am told, to supply
the increasing needs, the managers have to express vegetables all
the way from San Francisco. I've introduced Billy. They've agreed to
patronize home industry. Besides, it is better for them. You'll deliver
just as good vegetables just as cheap; you will make it a point to
deliver better, fresher vegetables; and don't forget that delivery for
you will be cheaper by virtue of the shorter haul.

"No day-old egg stunt here. No jams nor jellies. But you've got lots of
space up on the bench here on which you can't grow vegetables. To-morrow
morning I'll help you lay out the chicken runs and houses. Besides,
there is the matter of capons for the San Francisco market. You'll start
small. It will be a side line at first. I'll tell you all about that,
too, and send you the literature. You must use your head. Let others
do the work. You must understand that thoroughly. The wages of
superintendence are always larger than the wages of the laborers. You
must keep books. You must know where you stand. You must know what pays
and what doesn't and what pays best. Your books will tell that. I'll
show you all in good time."

"An' think of it--all that on two acres!" Billy murmured.

Mrs. Mortimer looked at him sharply.

"Two acres your granny," she said with asperity. "Five acres. And then
you won't be able to supply your market. And you, my boy, as soon as
the first rains come will have your hands full and your horses weary
draining that meadow. We'll work those plans out to-morrow Also, there
is the matter of berries on the bench here--and trellised table
grapes, the choicest. They bring the fancy prices. There will be
blackberries--Burbank's, he lives at Santa Rosa--Loganberries, Mammoth
berries. But don't fool with strawberries. That's a whole occupation in
itself. They're not vines, you know. I've examined the orchard. It's a
good foundation. We'll settle the pruning and grafts later."

"But Billy wanted three acres of the meadow," Saxon explained at the
first chance.

"What for?"

"To grow hay and other kinds of food for the horses he's going to
raise."

"Buy it out of a portion of the profits from those three acres," Mrs.
Mortimer decided on the instant.

Billy swallowed, and again achieved renunciation.

"All right," he said, with a brave show of cheerfulness. "Let her go. Us
for the greens."

During the several days of Mrs. Mortimer's visit, Billy let the two
women settle things for themselves. Oakland had entered upon a boom, and
from the West Oakland stables had come an urgent letter for more horses.
So Billy was out, early and late, scouring the surrounding country for
young work animals. In this way, at the start, he learned his valley
thoroughly. There was also a clearing out at the West Oakland stables of
mares whose feet had been knocked out on the hard city pave meets, and
he was offered first choice at bargain prices. They were good animals.
He knew what they were because he knew them of old time. The soft earth
of the country, with a preliminary rest in pasture with their shoes
pulled off, would put them in shape. They would never do again on
hard-paved streets, but there were years of farm work in them. And
then there was the breeding. But he could not undertake to buy them. He
fought out the battle in secret and said nothing to Saxon.

At night, he would sit in the kitchen and smoke, listening to all that
the two women had done and planned in the day. The right kind of horses
was hard to buy, and, as he put it, it was like pulling a tooth to get a
farmer to part with one, despite the fact that he had been authorized to
increase the buying sum by as much as fifty dollars. Despite the coming
of the automobile, the price of heavy draught animals continued to rise.
From as early as Billy could remember, the price of the big work horses
had increased steadily. After the great earthquake, the price had
jumped; yet it had never gone back.

"Billy, you make more money as a horse-buyer than a common laborer,
don't you?" Mrs. Mortimer asked. "Very well, then. You won't have to
drain the meadow, or plow it, or anything. You keep right on buying
horses. Work with your head. But out of what you make you will please
pay the wages of one laborer for Saxon's vegetables. It will be a good
investment, with quick returns."

"Sure," he agreed. "That's all anybody hires any body for--to make money
outa 'm. But how Saxon an' one man are goin' to work them five acres,
when Mr. Hale says two of us couldn't do what's needed on two acres, is
beyond me."

"Saxon isn't going to work," Mrs. Mortimer retorted.

"Did you see me working at San Jose? Saxon is going to use her head.
It's about time you woke up to that. A dollar and a half a day is what
is earned by persons who don't use their heads. And she isn't going to
be satisfied with a dollar and a half a day. Now listen. I had a long
talk with Mr. Hale this afternoon. He says there are practically no
efficient laborers to be hired in the valley."

"I know that," Billy interjected. "All the good men go to the cities.
It's only the leavin's that's left. The good ones that stay behind ain't
workin' for wages."

"Which is perfectly true, every word. Now listen, children. I knew about
it, and I spoke to Mr. Hale. He is prepared to make the arrangements for
you. He knows all about it himself, and is in touch with the Warden. In
short, you will parole two good-conduct prisoners from San Quentin; and
they will be gardeners. There are plenty of Chinese and Italians there,
and they are the best truck-farmers. You kill two birds with one stone.
You serve the poor convicts, and you serve yourselves."

Saxon hesitated, shocked; while Billy gravely considered the question.

"You know John," Mrs. Mortimer went on, "Mr. Hale's man about the place?
How do you like him?"

"Oh, I was wishing only to-day that we could find somebody like him,"
Saxon said eagerly. "He's such a dear, faithful soul. Mrs. Hale told me
a lot of fine things about him."

"There's one thing she didn't tell you," smiled Mrs. Mortimer. "John is
a paroled convict. Twenty-eight years ago, in hot blood, he killed a
man in a quarrel over sixty-five cents. He's been out of prison with
the Hales three years now. You remember Louis, the old Frenchman, on my
place? He's another. So that's settled. When your two come--of course
you will pay them fair wages--and we'll make sure they're the same
nationality, either Chinese or Italians--well, when they come, John,
with their help, and under Mr. Hale's guidance, will knock together a
small cabin for them to live in. We'll select the spot. Even so, when
your farm is in full swing you'll have to have more outside help. So
keep your eyes open, Billy, while you're gallivanting over the valley."

The next night Billy failed to return, and at nine o'clock a Glen Ellen
boy on horseback delivered a telegram. Billy had sent it from Lake
County. He was after horses for Oakland.

Not until the third night did he arrive home, tired to exhaustion, but
with an ill concealed air of pride.

"Now what have you been doing these three days?" Mrs. Mortimer demanded.

"Usin' my head," he boasted quietly. "Killin' two birds with one stone;
an', take it from me, I killed a whole flock. Huh! I got word of it at
Lawndale, an' I wanta tell you Hazel an' Hattie was some tired when I
stabled 'm at Calistoga an' pulled out on the stage over St. Helena.
I was Johnny-on-the-spot, an' I nailed 'm--eight whoppers--the whole
outfit of a mountain teamster. Young animals, sound as a-dollar, and
the lightest of 'em over fifteen hundred. I shipped 'm last night from
Calistoga. An', well, that ain't all.

"Before that, first day, at Lawndale, I seen the fellow with the teamin'
contract for the pavin'-stone quarry. Sell horses! He wanted to buy 'em.
He wanted to buy 'em bad. He'd even rent 'em, he said."

"And you sent him the eight you bought!" Saxon broke in.

"Guess again. I bought them eight with Oakland money, an' they was
shipped to Oakland. But I got the Lawndale contractor on long distance,
and he agreed to pay me half a dollar a day rent for every work horse up
to half a dozen. Then I telegraphed the Boss, tellin' him to ship me six
sore-footed mares, Bud Strothers to make the choice, an' to charge to my
commission. Bud knows what I 'm after. Soon as they come, off go their
shoes. Two weeks in pasture, an' then they go to Lawndale. They can do
the work. It's a down-hill haul to the railroad on a dirt road. Half a
dollar rent each--that's three dollars a day they'll bring me six days a
week. I don't feed 'em, shoe 'm, or nothin', an' I keep an eye on 'm to
see they're treated right. Three bucks a day, eh! Well, I guess that'll
keep a couple of dollar-an '-a-half men goin' for Saxon, unless she
works 'em Sundays. Huh! The Valley of the Moon! Why, we'll be wearin'
diamonds before long. Gosh! A fellow could live in the city a thousan'
years an' not get such chances. It beats China lottery."

He stood up.

"I 'm goin' out to water Hazel an' Hattie, feed 'm, an' bed 'm down.
I'll eat soon as I come back."

The two women were regarding each other with shining eyes, each on the
verge of speech when Billy returned to the door and stuck his head in.

"They's one thing maybe you ain't got," he said. "I pull down them three
dollars every day; but the six mares is mine, too. I own 'm. They're
mine. Are you on?"


CHAPTER XX

"I'm not done with you children," had been Mrs. Mortimer's parting
words; and several times that winter she ran up to advise, and to teach
Saxon how to calculate her crops for the small immediate market, for the
increasing spring market, and for the height of summer, at which time
she would be able to sell all she could possibly grow and then not
supply the demand. In the meantime, Hazel and Hattie were used every
odd moment in hauling manure from Glen Ellen, whose barnyards had never
known such a thorough cleaning. Also there were loads of commercial
fertilizer from the railroad station, bought under Mrs. Mortimer's
instructions.

The convicts paroled were Chinese. Both had served long in prison, and
were old men; but the day's work they were habitually capable of won
Mrs. Mortimer's approval. Gow Yum, twenty years before, had had charge
of the vegetable garden of one of the great Menlo Park estates. His
disaster had come in the form of a fight over a game of fan tan in the
Chinese quarter at Redwood City. His companion, Chan Chi, had been
a hatchet-man of note, in the old fighting days of the San Francisco
tongs. But a quarter of century of discipline in the prison vegetable
gardens had cooled his blood and turned his hand from hatchet to hoe.
These two assistants had arrived in Glen Ellen like precious goods
in bond and been receipted for by the local deputy sheriff, who, in
addition, reported on them to the prison authorities each month. Saxon,
too, made out a monthly report and sent it in.

As for the danger of their cutting her throat, she quickly got over the
idea of it. The mailed hand of the State hovered over them. The taking
of a single drink of liquor would provoke that hand to close down and
jerk them back to prison-cells. Nor had they freedom of movement. When
old Gow Yum needed to go to San Francisco to sign certain papers
before the Chinese Consul, permission had first to be obtained from
San Quentin. Then, too, neither man was nasty tempered. Saxon had been
apprehensive of the task of bossing two desperate convicts; but when
they came she found it a pleasure to work with them. She could tell them
what to do, but it was they who knew how do. Prom them she learned all
the ten thousand tricks and quirks of artful gardening, and she was not
long in realizing how helpless she would have been had she depended on
local labor.

Still further, she had no fear, because she was not alone. She had
been using her head. It was quickly apparent to her that she could not
adequately oversee the outside work and at the same time do the house
work. She wrote to Ukiah to the energetic widow who had lived in the
adjoining house and taken in washing. She had promptly closed with
Saxon's offer. Mrs. Paul was forty, short in stature, and weighed two
hundred pounds, but never wearied on her feet. Also she was devoid of
fear, and, according to Billy, could settle the hash of both Chinese
with one of her mighty arms. Mrs. Paul arrived with her son, a country
lad of sixteen who knew horses and could milk Hilda, the pretty Jersey
which had successfully passed Edmund's expert eye. Though Mrs. Paul ably
handled the house, there was one thing Saxon insisted on doing--namely,
washing her own pretty flimsies.

"When I 'm no longer able to do that," she told Billy, "you can take
a spade to that clump of redwoods beside Wild Water and dig a hole. It
will be time to bury me."

It was early in the days of Madrono Ranch, at the time of Mrs.
Mortimer's second visit, that Billy drove in with a load of pipe; and
house, chicken yards, and barn were piped from the second-hand tank he
installed below the house-spring.

"Huh! I guess I can use my head," he said. "I watched a woman over on
the other side of the valley, packin' water two hundred feet from the
spring to the house; an' I did some figurin'. I put it at three trips a
day and on wash days a whole lot more; an' you can't guess what I made
out she traveled a year packin' water. One hundred an' twenty-two miles.
D'ye get that? One hundred and twenty-two miles! I asked her how long
she'd been there. Thirty-one years. Multiply it for yourself. Three
thousan', seven hundred an' eighty-two miles--all for the sake of two
hundred feet of pipe. Wouldn't that jar you?"

"Oh, I ain't done yet. They's a bath-tub an' stationary tubs a-comin'
soon as I can see my way. An', say, Saxon, you know that little clear
flat just where Wild Water runs into Sonoma. They's all of an acre of
it. An' it's mine! Got that? An' no walkin' on the grass for you. It'll
be my grass. I 'm goin' up stream a ways an' put in a ram. I got a big
second-hand one staked out that I can get for ten dollars, an' it'll
pump more water'n I need. An' you'll see alfalfa growin' that'll make
your mouth water. I gotta have another horse to travel around on. You're
usin' Hazel an' Hattie too much to give me a chance; an' I'll never see
'm as soon as you start deliverin' vegetables. I guess that alfalfa'll
help some to keep another horse goin'."

But Billy was destined for a time to forget his alfalfa in the
excitement of bigger ventures. First, came trouble. The several
hundred dollars he had arrived with in Sonoma Valley, and all his own
commissions since earned, had gone into improvements and living. The
eighteen dollars a week rental for his six horses at Lawndale went to
pay wages. And he was unable to buy the needed saddle-horse for his
horse-buying expeditions. This, however, he had got around by again
using his head and killing two birds with one stone. He began breaking
colts to drive, and in the driving drove them wherever he sought horses.

So far all was well. But a new administration in San Francisco, pledged
to economy, had stopped all street work. This meant the shutting down of
the Lawndale quarry, which was one of the sources of supply for paving
blocks. The six horses would not only be back on his hands, but he would
have to feed them. How Mrs. Paul, Gow Yum, and Chan Chi were to be paid
was beyond him.

"I guess we've bit off more'n we could chew," he admitted to Saxon.

That night he was late in coming home, but brought with him a radiant
face. Saxon was no less radiant.

"It's all right," she greeted him, coming out to the barn where he was
unhitching a tired but fractious colt. "I've talked with all three. They
see the situation, and are perfectly willing to let their wages stand a
while. By another week I start Hazel and Hattie delivering vegetables.
Then the money will pour in from the hotels and my books won't look
so lopsided. And--oh, Billy--you'd never guess. Old Gow Yum has a bank
account. He came to me afterward--I guess he was thinking it over--and
offered to lend me four hundred dollars. What do you think of that?"

"That I ain't goin' to be too proud to borrow it off 'm, if he IS a
Chink. He's a white one, an' maybe I'll need it. Because, you see--well,
you can't guess what I've been up to since I seen you this mornin'. I've
been so busy I ain't had a bite to eat."

"Using your head?" She laughed.

"You can call it that," he joined in her laughter. "I've been spendin'
money like water."

"But you haven't got any to spend," she objected.

"I've got credit in this valley, I'll let you know," he replied. "An' I
sure strained it some this afternoon. Now guess."

"A saddle-horse?"

He roared with laughter, startling the colt, which tried to bolt and
lifted him half off the ground by his grip on its frightened nose and
neck.

"Oh, I mean real guessin'," he urged, when the animal had dropped back
to earth and stood regarding him with trembling suspicion.

"Two saddle-horses?"

"Aw, you ain't got imagination. I'll tell you. You know Thiercroft. I
bought his big wagon from 'm for sixty dollars. I bought a wagon from
the Kenwood blacksmith--so-so, but it'll do--for forty-five dollars. An'
I bought Ping's wagon--a peach--for sixty-five dollars. I could a-got it
for fifty if he hadn't seen I wanted it bad."

"But the money?" Saxon questioned faintly. "You hadn't a hundred dollars
left."

"Didn't I tell you I had credit? Well, I have. I stood 'm off for them
wagons. I ain't spent a cent of cash money to-day except for a
couple of long-distance switches. Then I bought three sets of
work-harness--they're chain harness an' second-hand--for twenty dollars
a set. I bought 'm from the fellow that's doin' the haulin' for the
quarry. He don't need 'm any more. An' I rented four wagons from 'm,
an' four span of horses, too, at half a dollar a day for each horse,
an' half a dollar a day for each wagon--that's six dollars a day rent
I gotta pay 'm. The three sets of spare harness is for my six horses.
Then... lemme see... yep, I rented two barns in Glen Ellen, an' I
ordered fifty tons of hay an' a carload of bran an' barley from the
store in Glenwood--you see, I gotta feed all them fourteen horses, an'
shoe 'm, an' everything.

"Oh, sure Pete, I've went some. I hired seven men to go drivin' for me
at two dollars a day, an'--ouch! Jehosaphat! What you doin'!"

"No," Saxon said gravely, having pinched him, "you're not dreaming."
She felt his pulse and forehead. "Not a sign of fever." She sniffed
his breath. "And you've not been drinking. Go on, tell me the rest of
this... whatever it is."

"Ain't you satisfied?"

"No. I want more. I want all."

"All right. But I just want you to know, first, that the boss I used to
work for in Oakland ain't got nothin' on me. I 'm some man of affairs,
if anybody should ride up on a vegetable wagon an' ask you. Now, I 'm
goin' to tell you, though I can't see why the Glen Ellen folks didn't
beat me to it. I guess they was asleep. Nobody'd a-overlooked a thing
like it in the city. You see, it was like this: you know that fancy
brickyard they're gettin' ready to start for makin' extra special fire
brick for inside walls? Well, here was I worryin' about the six horses
comin' back on my hands, earnin' me nothin' an' eatin' me into the
poorhouse. I had to get 'm work somehow, an' I remembered the brickyard.
I drove the colt down an' talked with that Jap chemist who's been doin'
the experimentin'. Gee! They was foremen lookin' over the ground an'
everything gettin' ready to hum. I looked over the lay an' studied it.
Then I drove up to where they're openin' the clay pit--you know, that
fine, white chalky stuff we saw 'em borin' out just outside the hundred
an' forty acres with the three knolls. It's a down-hill haul, a mile,
an' two horses can do it easy. In fact, their hardest job'll be haulin'
the empty wagons up to the pit. Then I tied the colt an' went to
figurin'.

"The Jap professor'd told me the manager an' the other big guns of the
company was comin' up on the mornin' train. I wasn't shoutin' things
out to anybody, but I just made myself into a committee of welcome; an',
when the train pulled in, there I was, extendin' the glad hand of the
burg--likewise the glad hand of a guy you used to know in Oakland once,
a third-rate dub prizefighter by the name of--lemme see--yep, I got
it right--Big Bill Roberts was the name he used to sport, but now he's
known as William Roberts, E. S. Q.

"Well, as I was sayin', I gave 'm the glad hand, an' trailed along with
'em to the brickyard, an' from the talk I could see things was doin'.
Then I watched my chance an' sprung my proposition. I was scared stiff
all the time for maybe the teamin' was already arranged. But I knew it
wasn't when they asked for my figures. I had 'm by heart, an' I rattled
'm off, and the top-guy took 'm down in his note-book.

"'We're goin' into this big, an' at once,' he says, lookin' at me sharp.
'What kind of an outfit you got, Mr. Roberts?'"

"Me!--with only Hazel an' Hattie, an' them too small for heavy teamin'.

"'I can slap fourteen horses an' seven wagons onto the job at the jump,'
says I. 'An' if you want more, I'll get 'm, that's all.'

"'Give us fifteen minutes to consider, Mr. Roberts,' he says.

"'Sure,' says I, important as all hell--ahem--me!--'but a couple of
other things first. I want a two year contract, an' them figures all
depends on one thing. Otherwise they don't go.'

"'What's that,' he says.

"'The dump,' says I. 'Here we are on the ground, an' I might as well
show you.'

"An' I did. I showed 'm where I'd lose out if they stuck to their plan,
on account of the dip down an' pull up to the dump. 'All you gotta do,'
I says, 'is to build the bunkers fifty feet over, throw the road around
the rim of the hill, an' make about seventy or eighty feet of elevated
bridge.'

Among the jam inside, near the door, a young Englishwoman, of the
working class, with two children, has had trouble all the way with
the youngest, a strong, fat, fretful, bright babe of fourteen or
fifteen months, who bids fair to worry the mother completely out,
besides becoming a howling nuisance to everybody.

As the car tugs around Capitol Hill the young one is more demoniac than
ever, and the flushed and perspiring mother is just ready to burst into
tears with weariness and vexation. The car stops at the top of the
hill to let off most of the rear platform passengers, and the white-
hatted man reaches inside, and, gently but firmly disengaging the
babe from its stifling place in the mother's arms, takes it in his
own, and out in the air.

The astonished and excited child, partly in fear, partly in
satisfaction at the change, stops its screaming, and, as the man
adjusts it more securely to his breast, plants its chubby hands
against him, and, pushing off as far as it can, gives a good long
look squarely in his face,--then, as if satisfied, snuggles down
with its head on his neck, and in less than a minute is sound and
peacefully asleep without another whimper, utterly fagged out.

A square or so more and the conductor, who has had an unusually hard
and uninterrupted day's work, gets off for his first meal and relief
since morning. And now the white-hatted man, holding the slumbering
babe, also acts as conductor the rest of the distance, keeping his
eye on the passengers inside, who have by this time thinned out
greatly.

He makes a very good conductor, too, pulling the bell to stop or to go
on as needed, and seems to enjoy the occupation. The babe meanwhile
rests its fat cheeks close on his neck and gray beard, one of his arms
vigilantly surrounding it, while the other signals, from time to time,
with the strap; and the flushed mother inside has a good half hour to
breathe, and to cool and recover herself.

II
No poem of our day dates and locates itself as absolutely as "Leaves
of Grass;" but suppose it had been written three or four centuries
ago, and had located itself in mediaeval Europe, and was now first
brought to light, together with a history of Walt Whitman's simple
and disinterested life, can there be any doubt about the cackling
that would at once break out in the whole brood of critics over the
golden egg that had been uncovered?

This reckon would be a favorite passage with all:--
"You sea! I resign myself to you also--I guess what you mean; I behold
from the beach your crooked inviting fingers; I believe you refuse
to go back without feeling of me; We must have a turn together--I
undress--hurry me out of sight of the land; Cushion me soft, rock me in
billowy drowse; Dash me with amorous wet--I can repay you.

"Sea of stretch'd ground-swells!

Sea breathing broad and convulsive breaths!
Sea of the brine of life! sea of unshovel'd yet always ready graves!
Howler and scooper of storms! capricious and dainty sea!
I am integral with you--I too am of one phase, and of all phases."
This other passage would afford many a text for the moralists and
essayists:--
"Of persons arrived at high positions, ceremonies, wealth, scholarship,
and the like; To me, all that those persons have arrived at sinks away
from them, except as it results to their Bodies and Souls, So that
often, to me, they appear gaunt and naked, And often, to me, each
one mocks the others, and mocks himself or herself, And of each
one, the core of life, namely happiness, is full of the rotten
excrement of maggots; And often, to me, those men and women pass
unwittingly the true realities of life, and go toward false realities,
And often, to me, they are alive after what custom has served them,
but nothing more, And often, to me, they are sad, hasty, unwaked
somnambules, walking the dusk."

Ah, Time, you enchantress! what tricks you play with us! The old is
already proved,--the past and the distant hold nothing but the
beautiful.

Or let us take another view. Suppose Walt Whitman had never existed,
and some bold essayist, like Mr.

Higginson or Matthew Arnold, had projected him in abstract, outlined
him on a scholarly ideal background, formulated and put in harmless
critical periods the principles of art which he illustrates, and
which are the inevitable logic of his poems,-- said essayist would
have won great applause.

"Yes, indeed, that were a poet to cherish; fill those shoes and you
have a god."

How different a critic's account of Shakespeare from Shakespeare
himself,--the difference between the hewn or sawed timber and the
living tree!

A few years ago we had here a lecturer from over seas, who gave to
our well-dressed audiences the high, moral, and intellectual statement
of the poet Burns. It was very fine, and people were greatly
pleased, vastly more so, I fear, than they were with Burns himself.
Indeed, I could not help wondering how many of those appreciative
listeners had any original satisfaction in the Scotch poet at first hand,
or would have accepted him had he been their neighbor and
fellow-citizen.

But as he filtered through the scholarly mind in trickling drops,
oh, he was so sweet!

Everybody stirred with satisfaction as the lecturer said: "When literature
becomes dozy, respectable, and goes in the smooth grooves of fashion,
and copies and copies again, something must be done; and to give life
to that dying literature a man must be found _not educated under its
influence."_ I applauded with the rest, for it was a bold saying; but I
could not help thinking how that theory, brought home to ourselves and
illustrated in a living example, would have sent that nodding
millinery and faultless tailory flying downstairs, as at an alarm
of fire.

One great service of Walt Whitman is that he exerts a tremendous influence
to bring the race up on this nether side,--to place the emotional, the
assimilative, the sympathetic, the spontaneous, intuitive man, the man
of the fluids and of the affections, flush with the intellectual
man.

That we moderns have fallen behind here is unquestionable, and we in this
country more than the Old World peoples.

All the works of Whitman, prose and verse, are embosomed in a sea of
emotional humanity, and they float deeper than they show; there is
far more in what they necessitate and imply than in what they say.

It is not so much of fatty degeneration that we are in danger in America,
but of calcareous.

The fluids, moral and physical, are evaporating; surfaces are
becoming encrusted, there is a deposit of flint in the veins and
arteries, outlines are abnormally sharp and hard, nothing is held
in solution, all is precipitated in well- defined ideas and
opinions.

But when I think of the type of character planted and developed by my
poet, I think of a man or a woman rich above all things in the genial
human attributes, one "nine times folded" in an atmosphere of tenderest,
most considerate humanity,--an atmosphere warm with the breath of a tropic
heart, that makes your buds of affection and of genius start and
unfold like a south wind in May.

Your intercourse with such a character is not merely intellectual; it
is deeper and better than that. Walter Scott carried such a fund of
sympathy and goodwill that even the animals found fellowship with him,
and the pigs understood his great heart.

It was the large endowment of Whitman, in his own character in this
respect, that made his services in the army hospitals during the war so
ministering and effective, and that renders his "Drum-Taps" the tenderest
and most deeply yearning and sorrowful expression of the human heart in
poetry that ever war called forth. Indeed, from my own point of view,
there is no false or dangerous tendency among us, in life or in
letters, that this poet does not offset and correct.

Fret and chafe as much as we will, we are bound to gravitate, more
or less, toward this mountain, and feel its bracing, rugged air.

Without a certain self-surrender there is no greatness possible in
literature, any more than in religion, or in anything else.

It is always a trait of the master that he is not afraid of being
compromised by the company he keeps. He is the central and main fact in
any company. Nothing so lowly but he will do it reverence; nothing so
high but he can stand in its presence. His theme is the river, and he
the ample and willing channel. Little natures love to disparage and take
down; they do it in self-defense; but the master gives you all, and
more than your due. Whitman does not stand aloof, superior, a priest
or a critic: he abandons himself to all the strong human currents; he
enters into and affiliates with every phase of life; he bestows himself
royally upon whoever and whatever will receive him. There is no
competition between himself and his subject; he is not afraid
of over-praising, or making too much of the commonest individual.

What exalts others exalts him.

We have had great help in Emerson in certain ways,--first-class
service.

He probes the conscience and the moral purpose as few men have done,
and gives much needed stimulus there.

But, after him, the need is all the more pressing for a broad,
powerful, opulent, human personality to absorb these ideals, and
to make something more of them than fine sayings.

With Emerson alone we are rich in sunlight, but poor in rain and dew,--poor,
too, in soil, and in the moist, gestating earth principle. Emerson's
tendency is not to broaden and enrich, but to concentrate and
refine.

Then, is there not an excessive modesty, without warrant in philosophy
or nature, dwindling us in this country, drying us up in the viscera?

Is there not a decay--a deliberate, strange abnegation and dread--of
sane sexuality, of maternity and paternity, among us, and in our literary
ideals and social types of men and women? For myself, I welcome any
evidence to the contrary, or any evidence that deeper and counteracting
agencies are at work, as unspeakably precious.

I do not know where this evidence is furnished in such ample measure
as in the pages of Walt Whitman. The great lesson of nature, I take
it, is that a sane sensuality must be preserved at all hazards,
and this, it seems to me, is also the great lesson of his writings. The
point is fully settled in him that, however they may have been
held in abeyance or restricted to other channels, there is still
sap and fecundity, and depth of virgin soil in the race, sufficient
to produce a man of the largest mould and the most audacious and
unconquerable egotism, and on a plane the last to be reached by
these qualities; a man of antique stature, of Greek fibre and gripe,
with science and the modern added, without abating one jot or tittle
of his native force, adhesiveness, Americanism, and democracy.

As I have already hinted, Whitman has met with by far his amplest acceptance
and appreciation in Europe.

There is good reason for this, though it is not what has been
generally claimed, namely, that the cultivated classes of Europe
are surfeited with respectability, half dead with _ennui_ and
routine, and find an agreeable change in the daring unconventionality
of the new poet.

For the fact is, it is not the old and jaded minds of London, or Paris,
or Dublin, or Copenhagen, that have acknowledged him, but the
fresh, eager, young minds.

Nine tenths of his admirers there are the sturdiest men in the
fields of art, science, and literature.

In many respects, as a race, we Americans have been pampered and
spoiled; we have been brought up on sweets.

I suppose that, speaking literally, no people under the sun consume so
much confectionery, so much pastry and cake, or indulge in so many gassy
and sugared drinks. The soda-fountain, with its syrups, has got
into literature, and furnishes the popular standard of poetry. The
old heroic stamina of our ancestors, that craved the bitter but
nourishing home-brewed, has died out, and in its place there is a
sickly cadaverousness that must be pampered and cosseted.

Among educated people here there is a mania for the bleached, the
double- refined,--white houses, white china, white marble, and white
skins.
We take the bone and sinew out of the flour in order to have white
bread, and are bolting our literature as fast as possible.

It is for these and kindred reasons that Walt Whitman is more read abroad
than in his own country.

It is on the rank, human, and emotional side-- sex, magnetism,
health, physique,--that he is so full.

Then his receptivity and assimilative powers are enormous, and he demands
these in his reader. In fact, his poems are physiological as much as
they are intellectual. They radiate from his entire being, and are charged
to repletion with that blended quality of mind and body--psychic
and physiologic--which the living form and presence send forth.

Never before in poetry has the body received such ennoblement. The
great theme is IDENTITY, and identity comes through the body; and all
that pertains to the body, the poet teaches, is entailed upon the spirit.
In his rapt gaze, the body and the soul are one, and what debases the
one debases the other.

Hence he glorifies the body. Not more ardently and purely did the
great sculptors of antiquity carve it in the enduring marble than
this poet has celebrated it in his masculine and flowing lines. The
bearing of his work in this direction is invaluable. Well has it been
said that the man or the woman who has "Leaves of Grass" for a
daily companion will be under the constant, invisible influence of
sanity, cleanliness, strength, and a gradual severance from all
that corrupts and makes morbid and mean.

In regard to the unity and construction of the poems, the reader sooner
or later discovers the true solution to be, that the dependence,
cohesion, and final reconciliation of the whole are in the Personality
of the poet himself.

As in Shakespeare everything is strung upon the plot, the play, and
loses when separated from it, so in this poet every line and sentence
refers to and necessitates the Personality behind it, and derives its
chief significance therefrom. In other words, "Leaves of Grass" is
essentially a dramatic poem, a free representation of man in his
relation to the outward world,--the play, the interchanges between
him and it, apart from social and artificial considerations,--in
which we discern the central purpose or thought to be for every man
and woman his or her Individuality, and around that, Nationality.

To show rather than to tell,--to body forth as in a play how these arise
and blend; how the man is developed and recruited, his spirit's
descent; how he walks through materials absorbing and conquering
them; how he confronts the immensities of time and space; where are
the true sources of his power, the soul's real riches,--that which
"adheres and goes forward and is not dropped by death;" how he is
all defined and published and made certain through his body; the
value of health and physique; the great solvent, Sympathy,--to show
the need of larger and fresher types in art and in life, and then
how the state is compacted, and how the democratic idea is ample
and composite, and cannot fail us,--to show all this, I say, not
as in a lecture or a critique, but suggestively and inferentially,--to
work it out freely and picturesquely, with endless variations, with
person and picture and parable and adventure, is the lesson and
object of "Leaves of Grass."

From the first line, where the poet says,

"I loafe and invite my Soul,"
to the last, all is movement and fusion,--all is clothed in flesh and
blood.

The scene changes, the curtain rises and falls, but the theme is still
Man,--his opportunities, his relations, his past, his future, his sex,
his pride in himself, his omnivorousness, his "great hands," his
yearning heart, his seething brain, the abysmal depths that underlie
him and open from him, all illustrated in the poet's own character,--he
the chief actor always.

His personality directly facing you, and with its eye steadily upon
you, runs through every page, spans all the details, and rounds and
completes them, and compactly holds them.

This gives the form and the art conception, and gives homogeneousness.

When Tennyson sends out a poem, it is perfect, like an apple or a
peach; slowly wrought out and dismissed, it drops from his boughs
holding a conception or an idea that spheres it and makes it whole.

It is completed, distinct, and separate,--might be his, or might be
any man's.

It carries his quality, but it is a thing of itself, and centres and
depends upon itself. Whether or not the world will hereafter consent,
as in the past, to call only beautiful creations of this sort
_poems,_ remains to be seen.

But this is certainly not what Walt Whitman does, or aims to do, except
in a few cases. He completes no poems apart and separate from himself,
and his pages abound in hints to that effect:--
"Let others finish specimens--I never finish specimens; I shower
them by exhaustless laws, as Nature does, fresh and modern continually."

His lines are pulsations, thrills, waves of force, indefinite dynamics,
formless, constantly emanating from the living centre, and they carry
the quality of the author's personal presence with them in a way that
is unprecedented in literature.

Occasionally there is a poem or a short piece that detaches itself, and
assumes something like ejaculatory and statuesque proportion, as "O
Captain, my Captain," "Pioneers," "Beat, Beat, Drums," and others in
"Drum-Taps;" but all the great poems, like "Walt Whitman," "Song of the
Open Road," "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry," "To Working Men," "Sleep-Chasings,"
etc., are out-flamings, out- rushings, of the pent fires of the poet's
soul. The first-named poem, which is the seething, dazzling sun of his
subsequent poetic system, shoots in rapid succession waves of almost
consuming energy. It is indeed a central orb of fiercest light and heat,
swept by wild storms of emotion, but at the same time of sane and
beneficent potentiality. Neither in it nor in either of the others
is there the building-up of a fair verbal structure, a symmetrical
piece of mechanism, whose last stone is implied and necessitated
in the first.

"The critic's great error," says Heine, "lies in asking, 'What ought
the artist to do?' It would be far more correct to ask, 'What does the
artist intend?'"
It is probably partly because his field is so large, his demands
so exacting, his method so new (necessarily so), and from the whole
standard of the poems being what I may call an astronomical one,
that the critics complain so generally of want of form in him.

And the critics are right enough, as far as their objection goes.
There is no deliberate form here, any more than there is in the
forces of nature.

Shall we say, then, that nothing but the void exists? The void is filled
by a Presence. There is a controlling, directing, overarching will
in every page, every verse, that there is no escape from.

Design and purpose, natural selection, growth, culmination, are just as
pronounced as in any poet.

There is a want of form in the unfinished statue, because it is
struggling into form; it is nothing without form; but there is no
want of form in the elemental laws and effusions,--in fire, or
water, or rain, or dew, or the smell of the shore or the plunging
waves.

And may there not be the analogue of this in literature,--a potent,
quickening, exhilarating quality in words, apart from and without
any consideration of constructive form?

Under the influence of the expansive, creative force that plays
upon me from these pages, like sunlight or gravitation, the question
of form never comes up, because I do not for one moment escape the
eye, the source from which the power and action emanate.

I know that Walt Whitman has written many passages with reference far more
to their position, interpretation, and scanning ages hence, than for
current reading. Much of his material is too near us; it needs time. Seen
through the vista of long years, perhaps centuries, it will assume
quite different hues.

Perhaps those long lists of trades, tools, and occupations would
not be so repellent if we could read them, as we read Homer's
catalogue of the ships, through the retrospect of ages.

They are justified in the poem aside from their historic value, because
they are alive and full of action,--panoramas of the whole mechanical
and industrial life of America, north, east, south, west,--bits of
scenery, bird's-eye views, glimpses of moving figures, caught as
by a flash, characteristic touches indoors and out, all passing in
quick succession before you.

They have in the fullest measure what Lessing demands in poetry,--the
quality of ebbing and flowing action, as distinct from the dead
water of description; they are thoroughly dramatic, fused, pliant,
and obedient to the poet's will.

No glamour is thrown over them, no wash of sentiment; and if they have
not the charm of novelty and distance, why, that is an accident that
bars them in a measure to us, but not to the future.
Very frequently in these lists or enumerations of objects, actions, shows,
there are sure to occur lines of perfect description:--
"Where the heifers browse--where geese nip their food with short
jerks; Where sun-down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome
prairie; Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the
square miles far and near; Where the splash of swimmers and divers
cools the warm noon; Where the katydid works her chromatic reed on
the walnut-tree over the well."

At Trillium Covert they were galloping.

"You'll have to stop for dinner first," Saxon said, as they neared the
gate of Madrono Ranch.

"You stop," he answered. "I don't want no dinner."

"But I want to go with you," she pleaded. "What is it?"

"I don't dast tell you. You go on in an' get your dinner."

"Not after that," she said. "Nothing can keep me from coming along now."

Half a mile farther on, they left the highway, passed through a patent
gate which Billy had installed, and crossed the fields on a road
which was coated thick with chalky dust. This was the road that led to
Chavon's clay pit. The hundred and forty lay to the west. Two wagons, in
a cloud of dust, came into sight.

"Your teams, Billy," cried Saxon. "Think of it! Just by the use of the
head, earning your money while you're riding around with me."

"Makes me ashamed to think how much cash money each one of them teams is
bringin' me in every day," he acknowledged.

They were turning off from the road toward the bars which gave entrance
to the one hundred and forty, when the driver of the foremost wagon
hallo'd and waved his hand. They drew in their horses and waited.

"The big roan's broke loose," the dryer said, as he stopped beside them.
"Clean crazy loco--bitin', squealin', strikin', kickin'. Kicked clean
out of the harness like it was paper. Bit a chunk out of Baldy the
size of a saucer, an' wound up by breakin' his own hind leg. Liveliest
fifteen minutes I ever seen."

"Sure it's broke?" Billy demanded sharply.

"Sure thing."

"Well, after you unload, drive around by the other barn and get Ben.
He's in the corral. Tell Matthews to be easy with 'm. An' get a gun.
Sammy's got one. You'll have to see to the big roan. I ain't got time
now.--Why couldn't Matthews a-come along with you for Ben? You'd save
time."

"Oh, he's just stickin' around waitin'," the driver answered. "He
reckoned I could get Ben."

"An' lose time, eh? Well, get a move on."

"That's the way of it," Billy growled to Saxon as they rode on. "No
savve. No head. One man settin' down an' holdin his hands while another
team drives outa its way doin what he oughta done. That's the trouble
with two-dollar-a-day men."

"With two-dollar-a-day heads," Saxon said quickly. "What kind of heads
do you expect for two dollars?"

"That's right, too," Billy acknowledged the hit. "If they had better
heads they'd be in the cities like all the rest of the better men.
An' the better men are a lot of dummies, too. They don't know the big
chances in the country, or you couldn't hold 'm from it."

Billy dismounted, took the three bars down, led his horse through, then
put up the bars.

"When I get this place, there'll be a gate here," he announced. "Pay
for itself in no time. It's the thousan' an' one little things like this
that count up big when you put 'm together." He sighed contentedly. "I
never used to think about such things, but when we shook Oakland I began
to wise up. It was them San Leandro Porchugeeze that gave me my first
eye-opener. I'd been asleep, before that."

They skirted the lower of the three fields where the ripe hay stood
uncut. Billy pointed with eloquent disgust to a break in the fence,
slovenly repaired, and on to the standing grain much-trampled by cattle.

"Them's the things," he criticized. "Old style. An' look how thin
that crop is, an' the shallow plowin'. Scrub cattle, scrub seed, scrub
farmin'. Chavon's worked it for eight years now, an' never rested it
once, never put anything in for what he took out, except the cattle into
the stubble the minute the hay was on."

In a pasture glade, farther on, they came upon a bunch of cattle.

"Look at that bull, Saxon. Scrub's no name for it. They oughta be a
state law against lettin' such animals exist. No wonder Chavon's that
land poor he's had to sink all his clay-pit earnin's into taxes an'
interest. He can't make his land pay. Take this hundred an forty.
Anybody with the savve can just rake silver dollars offen it. I'll show
'm."

They passed the big adobe barn in the distance.

"A few dollars at the right time would a-saved hundreds on that roof,"
Billy commented. "Well, anyway, I won't be payin' for any improvements
when I buy. An I'll tell you another thing. This ranch is full of water,
and if Glen Ellen ever grows they'll have to come to see me for their
water supply."

Billy knew the ranch thoroughly, and took short-cuts through the woods
by way of cattle paths. Once, he reined in abruptly, and both stopped.
Confronting them, a dozen paces away, was a half-grown red fox. For half
a minute, with beady eyes, the wild thing studied them, with twitching
sensitive nose reading the messages of the air. Then, velvet-footed, it
leapt aside and was gone among the trees.

"The son-of-a-gun!" Billy ejaculated.

As they approached Wild Water; they rode out into a long narrow meadow.
In the middle was a pond.

"Natural reservoir, when Glen Ellen begins to buy water," Billy said.
"See, down at the lower end there?--wouldn't cost anything hardly
to throw a dam across. An' I can pipe in all kinds of hill-drip. An'
water's goin' to be money in this valley not a thousan' years from
now.--An' all the ginks, an' boobs, an' dubs, an' gazabos poundin' their
ear deado an' not seein' it comin.--An' surveyors workin' up the valley
for an electric road from Sausalito with a branch up Napa Valley."

They came to the rim of Wild Water canyon. Leaning far back in their
saddles, they slid the horses down a steep declivity, through big spruce
woods, to an ancient and all but obliterated trail.

"They cut this trail 'way back in the Fifties," Billy explained. "I only
found it by accident. Then I asked Poppe yesterday. He was born in the
valley. He said it was a fake minin' rush across from Petaluma. The
gamblers got it up, an' they must a-drawn a thousan' suckers. You see
that flat there, an' the old stumps. That's where the camp was. They
set the tables up under the trees. The flat used to be bigger, but the
creek's eaten into it. Poppe said they was a couple of killin's an' one
lynchin'."

Lying low against their horses' necks, they scrambled up a steep cattle
trail out of the canyon, and began to work across rough country toward
the knolls.

"Say, Saxon, you're always lookin' for something pretty. I'll show
you what'll make your hair stand up... soon as we get through this
manzanita."

Never, in all their travels, had Saxon seen so lovely a vista as the one
that greeted them when they emerged. The dim trail lay like a rambling
red shadow cast on the soft forest floor by the great redwoods and
over-arching oaks. It seemed as if all local varieties of trees and
vines had conspired to weave the leafy roof--maples, big madronos and
laurels, and lofty tan-bark oaks, scaled and wrapped and interwound with
wild grape and flaming poison oak. Saxon drew Billy's eyes to a mossy
bank of five-finger ferns. All slopes seemed to meet to form this basin
and colossal forest bower. Underfoot the floor was spongy with water. An
invisible streamlet whispered under broad-fronded brakes. On every hand
opened tiny vistas of enchantment, where young redwoods grouped
still and stately about fallen giants, shoulder-high to the horses,
moss-covered and dissolving into mold.

At last, after another quarter of an hour, they tied their horses on the
rim of the narrow canyon that penetrated the wilderness of the knolls.
Through a rift in the trees Billy pointed to the top of the leaning
spruce.

"It's right under that," he said. "We'll have to follow up the bed of
the creek. They ain't no trail, though you'll see plenty of deer paths
crossin' the creek. You'll get your feet wet."

Saxon laughed her joy and held on close to his heels, splashing through
pools, crawling hand and foot up the slippery faces of water-worn rocks,
and worming under trunks of old fallen trees.

"They ain't no real bed-rock in the whole mountain," Billy elucidated,
"so the stream cuts deeper'n deeper, an' that keeps the sides cavin' in.
They're as steep as they can be without fallin' down. A little farther
up, the canyon ain't much more'n a crack in the ground--but a mighty
deep one if anybody should ask you. You can spit across it an' break
your neck in it."

The climbing grew more difficult, and they were finally halted, in a
narrow cleft, by a drift-jam.

"You wait here," Billy directed, and, lying flat, squirmed on through
crashing brush.

Saxon waited till all sound had died away. She waited ten minutes
longer, then followed by the way Billy had broken. Where the bed of the
canyon became impossible, she came upon what she was sure was a deer
path that skirted the steep side and was a tunnel through the close
greenery. She caught a glimpse of the overhanging spruce, almost above
her head on the opposite side, and emerged on a pool of clear water in a
clay-like basin. This basin was of recent origin, having been formed by
a slide of earth and trees. Across the pool arose an almost sheer wall
of white. She recognized it for what it was, and looked about for Billy.
She heard him whistle, and looked up. Two hundred feet above, at the
perilous top of the white wall, he was holding on to a tree trunk. The
overhanging spruce was nearby.

"I can see the little pasture back of your field," he called down. "No
wonder nobody ever piped this off. The only place they could see it from
is that speck of pasture. An' you saw it first. Wait till I come down
and tell you all about it. I didn't dast before."

It required no shrewdness to guess the truth. Saxon knew this was the
precious clay required by the brickyard. Billy circled wide of the
slide and came down the canyon-wall, from tree to tree, as descending a
ladder.

"Ain't it a peach?" he exulted, as he dropped beside her. "Just look at
it--hidden away under four feet of soil where nobody could see it, an'
just waitin' for us to hit the Valley of the Moon. Then it up an' slides
a piece of the skin off so as we can see it."

"Is it the real clay?" Saxon asked anxiously.

"You bet your sweet life. I've handled too much of it not to know it
in the dark. Just rub a piece between your fingers.--Like that. Why,
I could tell by the taste of it. I've eaten enough of the dust of the
teams. Here's where our fun begins. Why, you know we've been workin' our
heads off since we hit this valley. Now we're on Easy street."

"But you don't own it," Saxon objected.

"Well, you won't be a hundred years old before I do. Straight from here
I hike to Payne an' bind the bargain--an option, you know, while title's
searchin' an' I 'm raisin' money. We'll borrow that four hundred back
again from Gow Yum, an' I'll borrow all I can get on my horses an'
wagons, an' Hazel and Hattie, an' everything that's worth a cent. An'
then I get the deed with a mortgage on it to Hilyard for the balance.
An' then--it's takin' candy from a baby--I'll contract with the
brickyard for twenty cents a yard--maybe more. They'll be crazy with joy
when they see it. Don't need any borin's. They's nearly two hundred feet
of it exposed up an' down. The whole knoll's clay, with a skin of soil
over it."

"But you'll spoil all the beautiful canyon hauling out the clay," Saxon
cried with alarm.

"Nope; only the knoll. The road'll come in from the other side. It'll be
only half a mile to Chavon's pit. I'll build the road an' charge steeper
teamin', or the brickyard can build it an' I'll team for the same rate
as before. An' twenty cents a yard pourin' in, all profit, from the
jump. CLER: The world reports him to be very learned.

TRUE: I am sorry the world should so conspire to belie him.

CLER: Good faith, I have heard very good things come from him.

TRUE: You may; there's none so desperately ignorant to deny that:
would they were his own!

God be wi' you, gentleman.

[EXIT HASTILY.]
CLER: This is very abrupt!
DAUP: Come, you are a strange open man, to tell every thing
thus.
CLER: Why, believe it, Dauphine, Truewit's a very honest fellow.--I thought
that right at the jump, in the first waltz. An' what'd you think of me?

"Oh, I wondered, and before the first waltz, too, when we were
introduced and shook hands--I wondered if you were the man. Those were
the very words that flashed into my mind.--IS HE THE MAN?"

"An' I kinda looked a little some good to you?" he queried. "_I_ thought
so, and my eyesight has always been good."

"Say!" Billy went off at a tangent. "By next winter, with everything
hummin' an' shipshape, what's the matter with us makin' a visit to
Carmel? It'll be slack time for you with the vegetables, an' I'll be
able to afford a foreman."

Saxon's lack of enthusiasm surprised him.

"What's wrong?" he demanded quickly.

With downcast demurest eyes and hesitating speech, Saxon said:

"I did something yesterday without asking your advice, Billy."

He waited.

"I wrote to Tom," she added, with an air of timid confession.

Still he waited--for he knew not what.

I know nobody, and nobody knows me. The roads, the fields, the hills,
the streams, the woods, are all strange.

I look wistfully upon them, but they know me not.
They give back nothing to my yearning gaze. But there, on every hand,
are the long-familiar birds,--the same ones I left behind me, the
same ones I knew in my youth,--robins, sparrows, swallows, bobolinks,
crows, hawks, high-holes, meadowlarks, all there before me, and
ready to renew and perpetuate the old associations.

She nodded her head, her cheeks flooding with quick color.

"It's what I wanted, Saxon, more'n anything else in the world. I've been
thinkin' a whole lot about it lately, ever since we hit the valley," he
went on, brokenly, and for the first time she saw tears unmistakable
in his eyes. "But after all I'd done, an' the hell I'd raised, an'
everything, I... I never urged you, or said a word about it. But I
wanted it... oh, I wanted it like ... like I want you now."

Hammond passed the store as I was standing by the counter, and insisted
that I should go home to tea with him.

I had often done so before, and had no excuse, even when he said,--

"I want so much to make Miss Worthington like our Sandy people, Janet.
.