Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


'Tis here you'll find the mintage of my mind.--_Goethe._

              -------------------------------------

                      [Illustration: Elbert Hubbard]

                              Elbert Hubbard


The Mintage
Being Ten Stories & One More
By Elbert Hubbard

Copyright 1910
Elbert Hubbard


CONTENTS

FIVE BABIES
TO THE WEST
SIMEON STYLITES THE SYRIAN
BATTLE OF THE LITTLE BIG HORN
SAM
CLEOPATRA AND CÆSAR
A SPECIAL OCCASION
UNCLE JOE AND AUNT MELINDA
BILLY AND THE BOOK
JOHN THE BAPTIST AND SALOME
THE MASTER


              -------------------------------------

      All success consists in this: you are doing something
      for somebody--are benefiting humanity; and the feeling
      of success comes from the consciousness of this.


                           FIVE BABIES


Riding on the Grand Trunk Railway a few weeks ago, going from
Suspension Bridge to Chicago, I saw a sight so trivial that it seems
unworthy of mention. Yet for three weeks I have remembered it, and so
now I'll relate it, in order to get rid of it.

And possibly these little incidents of life are the items that make or
mar existence.

But here is what I saw on that railroad train: five children, the
oldest a girl of ten, and the youngest a baby boy of three. They were
traveling alone and had come from Germany, duly tagged, ticketed and
certified.

They were going to their Grandmother at Waukegan, Illinois.

The old lady was to meet them in Chicago.

The children spoke not a word of English, but there is a universal
language of the heart that speaks and is understood. So the trainmen
and the children were on very chummy terms.

Now, at London, Ontario, our train waited an hour for the Toronto and
Montreal connections.

Just before we reached London, I saw the Conductor take the three
smallest little passengers to the washroom at the end of the car, roll
up their sleeves, turn their collars in, and duly wash their hands and
faces. Then he combed their hair. They accepted the situation as if
they belonged to the Conductor's family, as of course they did for the
time being. It was a domestic scene that caused the whole car to
smile, and made everybody know everybody else. A touch of nature makes
a whole coach kin.

The children had a bushel-basket full of eatables, but at London that
Conductor took the whole brood over to the dining-hall for supper, and
I saw two fat men scrap as to who should have the privilege of paying
for the kiddies' suppers. The children munched and smiled and said
little things to each other in Teutonic whispers.

After our train left London and the Conductor had taken up his
tickets, he came back, turned over two seats and placed the cushions
lengthwise. One of the trainmen borrowed a couple of blankets from the
sleeping-cars, and with the help of three volunteered overcoats, the
babies were all put to bed, and duly tucked in.

I went back to my Pullman, and went to bed. And as I dozed off I kept
wondering whether the Grandmother would be there in the morning to
meet the little travelers. What sort of disaster had deprived them of
parents, I did not know, nor did I care to ask. The children were
alone, but among friends. They were strong and well, but they kept
very close together and looked to the oldest girl as a mother.

But to be alone in Chicago would be terrible! Would she come!

And so I slept. In the morning there was another Conductor in charge,
a man I had not before seen. I went into the day-coach, thinking that
the man might not know about the babies, and that I might possibly
help the little immigrants. But my services were not needed. The
ten-year-old "little other mother" had freshened up her family, and the
Conductor was assuring them, in awfully bad German, that their
Grandmother would be there--although, of course, he didn't know
anything at all about it.

When the train pulled into the long depot and stopped, the Conductor
took the baby boy on one arm and a little girl on the other.

A porter carried the big lunch-basket, and the little other mother led
a toddler on each side, dodging the hurrying passengers.

Evidently I was the only spectator of the play.

              -------------------------------------

"Will she be there--will she be there?" I asked myself nervously.

She was there, all right, there at the gate. The Conductor was
seemingly as gratified as I. He turned his charges over to the old
woman, who was weeping for joy, and hugging the children between
bursts of lavish, loving Deutsch.

I climbed into a Parmelee bus and said, "Auditorium Annex, please."

And as I sat there in the bus, while they were packing the grips on
top, the Conductor passed by, carrying a tin box in one hand and his
train cap in the other.

I saw an Elk's tooth on his watch-chain.

I called to him, "I saw you help the babies--good boy!"

He looked at me in doubt.

"Those German children," I said; "I'm glad you were so kind to them!"

"Oh," he answered, smiling; "yes, I had forgotten; why, of course,
that is a railroad man's business, you know--to help everybody who
needs help."

He waved his hand and disappeared up the stairway that led to the
offices.

And it came to me that he had forgotten the incident so soon, simply
because to help had become the habit of his life. He may read this,
and he may not. There he was--big, bold, bluff and bronzed, his hair
just touched with the frost of years, and beneath his brass buttons a
heart beating with a desire to bless and benefit. I do not know his
name, but the sight of the man, carrying a child on each arm, their
arms encircling his neck in perfect faith, their long journey done,
and he turning them over in safety to their Grandmother, was something
to renew one's faith in humanity.

Even a great Railway System has a soul.

If you answer that corporations have no souls, I'll say: "Friend, you
were never more mistaken in your life. The business that has no soul
soon ceases to exist; and the success of a company or corporation
turns on the kind of soul it possesses. Soul is necessary to service.
Courtesy, kindness, honesty and efficiency are tangible soul-assets;
and all good railroad men know it."


              -------------------------------------

        By taking thought you can add cubits to your stature.


                          TO THE WEST


To stand by the open grave of one you have loved, and feel the sky
shut down over less worth in the world is the supreme test.

There you prove your worth, if ever.

You must live and face the day, and face each succeeding day,
realizing that "the moving finger writes, and having writ moves on,
nor all your tears shall blot a line of it."

Heroes are born, but it is calamity that discovers them.

Once in Western Kansas, in the early Eighties, I saw a loaded
four-horse wagon skid and topple in going across a gully.

The driver sprang from his seat and tried to hold the wagon upright.

The weight was too great for his strength, powerful man though he was.

The horses swerved down the ditch instead of crossing it, and the
overturning wagon caught the man and pinned him to the ground.

Half a dozen of us sprang from our horses. After much effort the
tangled animals were unhitched and the wagon was righted.

The man was dead.

In the wagon were the wife and six children, the oldest child a boy of
fifteen. All were safely caught in the canvas top and escaped unhurt.
We camped there--not knowing what else to do.

We straightened the mangled form of the dead, and covered the body
with a blanket.

That night the mother and the oldest boy sat by the campfire and
watched the long night away with their dead.

The stars marched in solemn procession across the sky.

The slow, crawling night passed.

The first faint flush of dawn appeared in the East.

I lay near the campfire, my head pillowed on a saddle, and heard the
widowed mother and her boy talking in low but earnest tones.

"We must go back--we must go back to Illinois. It is the only thing to
do," I heard the mother moan.

And the boy answered: "Mother, listen to what I say: We will go on--we
will go on. We know where father was going to take us--we know what he
was going to do. We will go on, and we will do what he intended to do,
and if possible we will do it better. We will go on!"

That first burst of pink in the East had turned to gold.

Great streaks of light stretched from horizon to zenith.

I could see in the dim and hazy light the hobbled horses grazing
across the plain a quarter of a mile away.

The boy of fifteen arose and put fuel on the fire.

After breakfast I saw that boy get a spade, a shovel and a pick out of
the wagon.

With help of others a grave was dug there on the prairie.

The dead was rolled in a blanket and tied about with thongs, after the
fashion of the Indians.

Lines were taken from a harness, and we lowered the body into the
grave.

The grave was filled up by friendly hands working in nervous haste.

I saw the boy pat down the mound with the back of a spade.

I saw him carve with awkward, boyish hands the initials of his father,
the date of his birth and the day of his death.

I saw him drive the slab down at the head of the grave.

I saw him harness the four horses.

I saw him help his little brothers into the canvas-covered wagon.

I saw him help his mother climb the wheel as she took her place on the
seat.

I saw him spring up beside her.

I saw him gather up the lines in his brown, slim hands, and swing the
whip over the leaders, as he gave the shrill word of command and
turned the horses to the West.

And the cavalcade moved forward to the West--always to the West.

The boy had met calamity and disaster. He had not flinched.

In a single day he had left boyhood behind and become a man.

And the years that followed proved him genuine.

What was it worked the change? Grief and responsibility, nobly met.


              -------------------------------------

      The church has aureoled and sainted the men and
      women who have fought the Cosmic Urge. To do nothing
      and to be nothing was regarded as a virtue.


                    SIMEON STYLITES THE SYRIAN


The church has aureoled and sainted the men and women who have fought
the Cosmic Urge. To do nothing and to be nothing was regarded as a
virtue.


As the traveler journeys through Southern Italy, Sicily and certain
parts of what was Ancient Greece, he will see broken arches, parts of
viaducts, and now and again a beautiful column pointing to the sky.
All about is the desert, or solitary pastures, and only this white
milestone marking the path of the centuries and telling in its own
silent, solemn and impressive way of a day that is dead.

In the Fifth Century a monk called Simeon the Syrian, and known to us
as Simeon Stylites, having taken the vow of chastity, poverty and
obedience, began to fear greatly lest he might not be true to his
pledge. And that he might live absolutely beyond reproach, always in
public view, free from temptation, and free from the tongue of
scandal, he decided to live in the world, and still not be of it. To
this end he climbed to the top of a marble column, sixty feet high,
and there on the capstone he began to live a life beyond reproach.

Simeon was then twenty-four years old.

The environment was circumscribed, but there were outlook, sunshine,
ventilation--three good things. But beyond these the place had certain
disadvantages. The capstone was a little less than three feet square,
so Simeon could not lie down. He slept sitting, with his head bowed
between his knees, and, indeed, in this posture he passed most of his
time. Any recklessness in movement, and he would have slipped from his
perilous position and been dashed to death upon the stones beneath.

As the sun arose he stood up, just for a few moments, and held out his
arms in greeting, blessing and in prayer. Three times during the day
did he thus stretch his cramped limbs, and pray with his face to the
East. At such times, those who stood near shared in his prayers, and
went away blessed and refreshed.

How did Simeon get to the top of the column?

Well, his companions at the monastery, a mile away, said he was
carried there in the night by a miraculous power; that he went to
sleep in his stone cell and awoke on the pillar. Other monks said that
Simeon had gone to pay his respects to a fair lady, and in wrath God
had caught him and placed him on high. The probabilities are, however,
Terese, as viewed by an unbeliever, that he shot a line over the
column with a bow and arrow and then drew up a rope ladder and
ascended with ease.

However, in the morning the simple people of the scattered village saw
the man on the column.

All day he stayed there.

And the next day he was still there.

The days passed, with the scorching heat of the midday sun, and the
cool winds of the night.

Still Simeon kept his place.

The rainy season came on. When the nights were cold and dark, Simeon
sat there with bowed head, and drew the folds of his single garment, a
black robe, over his face.

Another season passed; the sun again grew warm, then hot, and the
sandstorms raged and blew, when the people below almost lost sight of
the man on the column. Some prophesied he would be blown off, but the
morning light revealed his form, naked from the waist up, standing
with hands outstretched to greet the rising sun.

Once each day, as darkness gathered, a monk came with a basket
containing a bottle of goat's milk and a little loaf of black bread,
and Simeon dropped down a rope and drew up the basket.

Simeon never spoke, for words are folly, and to the calls of saint or
sinner he made no reply. He lived in a perpetual attitude of
adoration.

Did he suffer? During those first weeks he must have suffered terribly
and horribly. There was no respite nor rest from the hard surface of
the rock, and aching muscles could find no change from the cramped and
perilous position. If he fell, it was damnation for his soul--all were
agreed as to this.

But man's body and mind accommodate themselves to almost any
condition. One thing at least, Simeon was free from economic
responsibilities, free from social cares and intrusion. Bores with sad
stories of unappreciated lives and fond hopes unrealized, never broke
in upon his peace. He was not pressed for time. No frivolous dame of
tarnished fame sought to share with him his perilous perch. The people
on a slow schedule, ten minutes late, never irritated his temper. His
correspondence never got in a heap.

Simeon kept no track of the days, having no engagements to meet, nor
offices to perform, beyond the prayers at morn, midday and night.

Memory died in him, the hurts became callouses, the world-pain died
out of his heart, and to cling became a habit.

Language was lost in disuse.

The food he ate was minimum in quantity; sensation ceased, and the
dry, hot winds reduced bodily tissue to a dessicated something called
a saint--loved, feared and reverenced for his fortitude.

This pillar, which had once graced the portal of a pagan temple, again
became a place of pious pilgrimage, and people flocked to Simeon's
rock, so that they might be near when he stretched out his black, bony
hands to the East, and the spirit of Almighty God, for a space,
hovered close around.

So much attention did the abnegation of Simeon attract that various
other pillars, marking the ruins of art and greatness gone, in that
vicinity, were crowned with pious monks. The thought of these monks
was to show how Christianity had triumphed over heathenism. Imitators
were numerous. About then the Bishops in assembly asked, "Is Simeon
sincere?" To test the matter of Simeon's pride, he was ordered to come
down from his retreat.

As to his chastity, there was little doubt, his poverty was beyond
question, but how about obedience to his superiors?

The order was shouted up to him in a Bishop's voice--he must let down
his rope, draw up a ladder, and descend.

Straightway Simeon made preparation to obey. And then the Bishops
relented and cried, "We have changed our minds, and now order you to
remain!"

Simeon lifted his hands in adoration and thankfulness and renewed his
lease.

And so he lived on and on and on--he lived on the top of that pillar,
never once descending for thirty years.

All his former companions grew aweary, and one by one died, and the
monastery bells tolled their requiem as they were laid to rest. Did
Simeon hear the bells and say, "Soon it will be my turn"?

Probably not. His senses had flown, for what good were they! The young
monk who now at eventide brought the basket with the bottle of goat's
milk and the loaf of brown bread was born since Simeon had taken his
place on the pillar.

"He has always been there," the people said, and crossed themselves
hurriedly.

But one evening when the young monk came with his basket, no line was
dropped down from above. He waited and then called aloud, but all in
vain.

When sunrise came, there sat the monk, his face between his knees, the
folds of his black robe drawn over his head. But he did not rise and
lift his hands in prayer.

All day he sat there, motionless.

The people watched in whispered silence. Would he arise at sundown and
pray, and with outstretched hands bless the assembled pilgrims?

And as they watched, a vulture came sailing slowly through the blue
ether, and circled nearer and nearer; and off on the horizon was
another--and still another, circling nearer and ever nearer.


              -------------------------------------

      I would write across the sky in letters of light this
      undisputed truth, proven by every annal of history,
      that the only way to help yourself is through loyalty
      to those who trust and employ you.


                  BATTLE OF THE LITTLE BIG HORN


It was in the Spring of Eighteen Hundred Seventy-six that the Sioux on
the Dakota Reservation became restless, and after various fruitless
efforts to restrain them, moved Westward in a body.

This periodic migration was a habit and a tradition of the tribe. For
hundreds of years they had visited the buffalo country on an annual
hunt.

Now the buffaloes were gone, save for a few scattered herds in the
mountains. The Indians did not fully realize this, although they
realized that as the Whites came in, the game went out. The Sioux were
hunters and horsemen by nature. They traveled and moved about with
great freedom. If restrained or interfered with they grew irritable
and then hostile.

Now they were full of fight. The Whites had ruined the hunting-grounds;
besides that, white soldiers had fought them if they moved to their
old haunts, sacred for their use and bequeathed to them by their
ancestors. In dead of Winter, when the snows lay deep and they were in
their teepees, crouching around the scanty fire, soldiers had charged
on horseback through the villages, shooting into the teepees, killing
women and children.

At the head of these soldiers was a white chief, whom they called
Yellow Hair. He was a smashing, dashing, fearless soldier who
understood the Indian ways and haunts, and then used this knowledge
for the undoing of the Red Men.

Yellow Hair wanted to keep them in one little place all the time, and
desired that they should raise corn like cowardly Crows, when what
they wanted was to be free and hunt!

They feared Yellow Hair--and hated him.

Custer was a man of intelligence--nervous, energetic, proud. His
honesty and sincerity were beyond dispute. He was a natural Indian
fighter. He could pull his belt one hole tighter and go three whole
days without food. He could ride like the wind, or crawl in the grass,
and knew how to strike, quickly and unexpectedly, as the first streak
of dawn came into the East. Like Napoleon, he knew the value of time,
and, in fact, he had somewhat of the dash and daring, not to mention
the vanity, of the Corsican. His men believed in him and loved him,
for he marched them to victory, and with odds of five to one had won
again and again.

              -------------------------------------

But Custer had the defect of his qualities; and to use the Lincoln
phrase, sometimes took counsel of his ambition.

He had fought in the Civil War in places where no prisoners were
taken, and where there was no commissary. And this wild, free life had
bred in him a habit of unrest--a chafing at discipline and all rules of
modern warfare.

Results were the only things he cared for, and power was his Deity.

When the Indians grew restless in the Spring of Seventy-six, Custer
was called to Washington for consultation. President Grant was not
satisfied with our Indian policy--he thought that in some ways the
Whites were the real savages. The Indians he considered as children,
not as criminals.

Custer tried to tell him differently. Custer knew the bloodthirsty
character of the Sioux, their treachery and cunning--he showed scars by
way of proof!

The authorities at Washington needed Custer. However, his view of the
case did not mean theirs. Custer believed in the mailed hand, and if
given the power he declared he would settle the Indian Question in
America once and forever. His confidence and assumption and what
Senator Dawes called swagger were not to their liking. "You don't, don't
you?" said Cecilia, provoked; and catching the hat from Louisa, she
flung the strawberries over the hedge.

"Will nobody help me!" exclaimed Louisa, snatching her hat again, and
running away with all her force.

"What have I done?" said Cecilia, recollecting herself. "Louisa!
Louisa!" She called very loud, but Louisa would not turn back! she was
running to her companions.

They were still dancing, hand in hand, upon the grass, whilst Leonora,
sitting in the middle, sang to them.

"Stop! stop! and hear me!" cried Louisa, breaking through them; and rushing
up to Leonora, she threw her hat at her feet, and panting for breath----

"It was full--almost full of my own strawberries," said she, "the first
I ever got out of my own garden. They should all have been for you,
Leonora, but now I have not one left.

They are all gone!" said she; and she hid her face in Leonora's
lap.

"Gone! gone where?"

said every one at once, running up to her. "Cecilia!
Cecilia!" said she, sobbing. "Cecilia!" repeated Leonora; "what of
Cecilia?" "Yes, it was--it was."
"Come along with me," said Leonora, unwilling to have her friend
exposed; "come, and I will get you some more strawberries."

"Oh, I don't mind the strawberries, indeed; but I wanted to have
had the pleasure of giving them to you."

Leonora took her up in her arms to carry her away, but it was too
late.

"What, Cecilia! Cecilia, who won the prize! It could not surely be
Cecilia," whispered every busy tongue.

At this instant the bell summoned them in.

"There she is!--There she is!" cried they, pointing to an arbour, where
Cecilia was standing, ashamed and alone; and as they passed her,
some lifted up their hands and eyes with astonishment, others
whispered and huddled mysteriously together, as if to avoid her.

Leonora walked on, her head a little higher than usual.

"Leonora!" said Cecilia, timorously, as she passed.

"Oh, Cecilia! who would have thought that you had a bad heart?"
Cecilia turned her head aside and burst into tears.

"Oh no, indeed, she has not a bad heart," cried Louisa, running up to
her, and throwing her arms round her neck; "she's very sorry!--are not
you, Cecilia?

But don't cry any more, for I forgive you with all my heart; and I love
you now, though I said I did not when I was in a passion."

              "O, you sweet-tempered girl!

how I love you," said Cecilia, kissing her.

"Well then, if you do, come along with me, and dry your eyes, for
they are so red."

"Go, my dear, and I'll come presently."
"Then I will keep a place for you next to me; but you must make
haste, or you will have to come in when we have all set down to
supper, and then you will be so stared at!

So don't stay now."
Cecilia followed Louisa with her eyes till she was out of sight.

"And is Louisa," said she to herself, "the only one who would stop
to pity me?

Mrs. Villars told me that this day should be mine; she little thought
how it would end!"

Saying these words, Cecilia threw herself down upon the ground; her
arm leaned upon a heap of turf which she had raised in the morning,
and which in the pride and gayety of her heart, she had called her
throne.

At this instant, Mrs. Villars came out to enjoy the serenity of the
evening, and passing by the arbour where Cecilia lay, she started;
Cecilia rose hastily.

              "Who is there?" said Mrs. Villars.

"It is I, madam." "And who is I?" "Cecilia." "Why, what keeps you here,
my dear--where are your companions?

this is, perhaps, one of the happiest days of your life."

"O no, madam!" said Cecilia, hardly able to repress her tears.

"Why, my dear, what is the matter?"
Cecilia hesitated.

"Speak, my dear. You know that when I ask you to tell me any thing as
your friend, I never punish you as your governess; therefore you
need not be afraid to tell me what is the matter."

"No, madam, I am not afraid, but ashamed. You asked me why I was not
with my companions. Why, madam, because they have all left me, and----"
"And what, my dear?" "And I see that they all dislike me. And yet
I don't know why they should, for I take as much pains to please as
any of them.

All my masters seem satisfied with me; and you yourself, ma'am, were
pleased this very morning to give me this bracelet; and I am sure
you would not have given it to any one who did not deserve it."

"Certainly not. You did deserve it for your application--for your
successful application. The prize was for the most assiduous, not for
the most amiable."

"Then if it had been for the most amiable it would not have been
for me?"

Mrs. Villars, smiling--"Why, what do you think yourself, Cecilia? You
are better able to judge than I am. I can determine whether or no
you apply to what I give you to learn; whether you attend to what I
desire you to do, and avoid what I desire you not to do.

I know that I like you as a pupil, but I cannot know that I
should like you as a companion, unless I were your companion; therefore
I must judge of what I should do by seeing what others do in the
same circumstances."

"O, pray don't, ma'am; for then you would not love me neither. And
yet I think you would love me; for I hope that I am as ready to
oblige, and as good-natured, as----" "Yes, Cecilia, I don't doubt
but that you would be very good-natured to me, but I am afraid
that I should not like you unless you were good-tempered too."

"But, ma'am, by good-natured I mean good-tempered--it's all the
same thing." "No, indeed, I understand by them two very
different things. You are good-natured, Cecilia, for you are desirous
to oblige and serve your companions, to gain them praise and save
them from blame, to give them pleasure, and to relieve them from
pain; but Leonora is good-tempered, for she can bear with their
foibles, and acknowledge her own.

Without disputing about the right, she sometimes yields to those
who are in the wrong.

In short, her temper is perfectly good, for it can bear and forbear."

"I wish that mine could," said Cecilia, sighing.

"It may," replied Mrs. Villars; "but it is not wishes alone which can
improve us in any thing.

Turn the same exertion and perseverance which have won you the prize
to-day to this object, and you will meet with the same success; perhaps
not on the first, the second, or the third attempt, but depend upon
it that you will at last; every new effort will weaken your bad
habits and strengthen your good ones.

But you must not expect to succeed all at once; I repeat it to you, for
habit must be counteracted by habit.

It would be as extravagant in us to expect that all our faults could
be destroyed by one punishment, were it ever so severe, as it was
in the Roman emperor we were reading of a few days ago to wish that
all the heads of his enemies were upon one neck, that he might cut
them off by one blow."

Here Mrs. Villars took Cecilia by the hand, and they began to walk
home.
Such was the nature of Cecilia's mind, that, when any object was
forcibly impressed on her imagination, it caused a temporary suspension
of her reasoning faculties. Hope was too strong a stimulus for her
spirits; and when fear did take possession of her mind, it was
attended with total debility.

Her vanity was now as much mortified as in the morning it had been elated.
She walked on with Mrs. Villars in silence until they came under the
shade of the elm-tree walk, and then, fixing her eyes upon Mrs.

              Villars, she stopped short.

"Do you think, madam," said she, with hesitation, "do you think, madam,
that I have a bad heart?"

"A bad heart, my dear! why, what put that into your head?"
"Leonora said that I had, ma'am, and I felt ashamed when she said
so."

              "But, my dear, how can Leonora tell whether your heart be good or
bad?

However, in the first place, tell me what you mean by a bad heart."

"Indeed, I do not know what is meant by it, ma'am; but it is something
which every body hates."

"And why do they hate it?"

"Because they think that it will hurt them, ma'am, I believe; and that
those who have bad hearts take delight in doing mischief; and that
they never do any body good but for their own ends."

"Then the best definition which you can give me of a bad heart is
that it is some constant propensity to hurt others, and to do wrong
for the sake of doing wrong."

"Yes, ma'am, but that is not all neither; there is still something
else meant; something which I cannot express--which, indeed, I
never distinctly understood; but of which, therefore, I was the
more afraid."

"Well, then, to begin with what you do understand, tell me, Cecilia,
do you really think it possible to be wicked merely for the love of
wickedness?

No human being becomes wicked all at once; a man begins by doing wrong
because it is, or because he thinks it is for his interest; if he
continue to do so, he must conquer his sense of shame, and lose his
love of virtue. But how can you, Cecilia, who feel such a strong
sense of shame, and such an eager desire to improve, imagine that
you have a bad heart?"

"Indeed, madam, I never did, until every body told me so, and then
I began to be frightened about it.

This very evening, ma'am, when I was in a passion, I threw little
Louisa's strawberries away; which, I am sure, I was very sorry for
afterwards; and Leonora and every body cried out that I had a bad
heart; but I am sure that I was only in a passion."

"Very likely. And when you are in a passion, as you call it,
Cecilia, you see that you are tempted to do harm to others; if they do
not feel angry themselves, they do not sympathize with you; they
do not perceive the motive which actuates you, and then they say
that you have a bad heart.

I dare say, however, when your passion is over, and when you recollect
yourself, you are very sorry for what you have done and said; are
not you?"
"Yes, indeed, madam, very sorry."

"Then make that sorrow of use to you, Cecilia, and fix it steadily
in your thoughts, as you hope to be good and happy, that, if you
suffer yourself to yield to your passion upon every trifling occasion,
anger and its consequences will become familiar to your mind; and
in the same proportion your sense of shame will be weakened, till
what you began with doing from sudden impulse you will end with
doing from habit and choice; and then you would, indeed, according
to our definition, have a bad heart."

"Oh, madam!

I hope--I am sure I never shall."
"No, indeed, Cecilia; I do, indeed, believe that you never will;
on the contrary, I think that you have a very good disposition,
and, what is of infinitely more consequence to you, an active desire
of improvement.

Show me that you have as much perseverance as you have candour, and
I shall not despair of your becoming every thing that I could
wish."

Here Cecilia's countenance brightened, and she ran up the steps in almost
as high spirits as she ran down them in the morning.

"Good night to you, Cecilia," said Mrs.

Villars, as she was crossing the hall.

"Good night to you, madam," said Cecilia; and she ran up stairs to
bed.

She could not go to sleep, but she lay awake reflecting upon the
events of the preceding day, and forming resolutions for the future;
at the same time, considering that she had resolved, and resolved
without effect, she wished to give her mind some more powerful
motive; ambition she knew to be its most powerful incentive.

"Have I not," said she to herself, "already won the prize of
application, and cannot the same application procure me a much
higher prize?

Mrs.

Villars said that if the prize had been promised to the most amiable
it would not have been given to me; perhaps it would not
yesterday--perhaps it might not to-morrow; but that is no reason
that I should despair of ever deserving it."

In consequence of this reasoning, Cecilia formed a design of proposing
to her companions that they should give a prize, the first of the ensuing
month (the first of June), to the most amiable. Mrs. Villars applauded
the scheme, and her companions adopted it with the greatest
alacrity.

"Let the prize," said they, "be a bracelet of our own hair;" and
instantly their shining scissors were procured, and each contributed
a lock of her hair. They formed the most beautiful gradation of colours,
from the palest auburn to the brightest black.

Who was to have the honour of plaiting them was now the question.

Caroline begged that she might, as she could plait very neatly, she
said.

Cecilia, however, was equally sure that she could do it much better,
and a dispute would inevitably have ensued, if Cecilia, recollecting
herself just as her colour rose to scarlet, had not yielded--yielded
with no very good grace indeed, but as well as could be expected
for the first time.

For it is habit which confers ease; and without ease, even in moral
actions, there can be no grace.

The bracelet was plaited in the neatest manner by Caroline, finished
round the edge with silver twist, and on it was worked, in the
smallest silver letters, this motto, TO THE MOST AMIABLE.

The moment it was completed, every body begged to try it on. It
fastened with little silver clasps, and as it was made large enough
for the eldest girls, it was too large for the youngest; of this
they bitterly complained, and unanimously entreated that it might
be cut to fit them.

"How foolish!" exclaimed Cecilia. "Don't you perceive that, if you
win it, you have nothing to do but to put the clasps a little
further from the edge?

but if we get it, we can't make it larger."
"Very true," said they, "but you need not to have called us foolish,
Cecilia!"

It was by such hasty and unguarded expressions as these that Cecilia
offended; a slight difference in the manner makes a very material
one in the effect.

Cecilia lost more love by general petulance than she could gain by
the greatest particular exertions.

How far she succeeded in curing herself of this defect, how far she
became deserving of the bracelet, and to whom the bracelet was
given, shall be told in the history of the first of June.

CONTINUATION OF THE BRACELETS.

The first of June was now arrived, and all the young competitors were
in a state of the most anxious suspense.

Leonora and Cecilia continued to be the foremost candidates; their quarrel
had never been finally adjusted, and their different pretensions
now retarded all thoughts of a reconciliation.

Cecilia, though she was capable of acknowledging any of her faults
in public before all her companions, could not humble herself in
private to Leonora; Leonora was her equal, they were her inferiors;
and submission is much easier to a vain mind, where it appears to
be voluntary, than when it is the necessary tribute to justice or
candour.

So strongly did Cecilia feel this truth that she even delayed
making any apology, or coming to any explanation with Leonora,
until success should once more give her the palm.

If I win the bracelet to-day, said she to herself, I will solicit the
return of Leonora's friendship; it will be more valuable to me than
even the bracelet; and at such a time, and asked in such a manner,
she surely cannot refuse it to me.

Animated with this hope of a double triumph, Cecilia canvassed with
the most zealous activity; by constant attention and exertion she
had considerably abated the violence of her temper, and changed the
course of her habits. Her powers of pleasing were now excited,
instead of her abilities to excel; and, if her talents appeared
less brilliant, her character was acknowledged to be more amiable;
so great an influence upon our manners and conduct have the objects
of our ambition.

              Cecilia was now, if possible, more than ever desirous of doing what
was right, but she had not yet acquired sufficient fear of doing
wrong.

      This was the fundamental error of her mind; it arose
      in a great measure from her early education.

                              Her mother died when she was very young; and though her father had
supplied her place in the best and kindest manner, he had insensibly
infused into his daughter's mind a portion of that enterprising,
independent spirit, which he justly deemed essential to the character
of her brother.

This brother was some years older than Cecilia, but he had always
been the favourite companion of her youth; what her father's
precepts inculcated, his example enforced, and even Cecilia's virtues
consequently became such as were more estimable in a man than
desirable in a female.

All small objects and small errors she had been taught to disregard
as trifles; and her impatient disposition was perpetually leading
her into more material faults; yet her candour in confessing these,
she had been suffered to believe, was sufficient reparation and
atonement.

Leonora, on the contrary, who had been educated by her mother in a
manner more suited to her sex, had a character and virtues more
peculiar to a female; her judgment had been early cultivated, and
her good sense employed in the regulation of her conduct; she had
been habituated to that restraint, which, as a woman, she was to
expect in life, and early accustomed to yield; compliance in her
seemed natural and graceful.

Yet, notwithstanding the gentleness of her temper, she was in reality
more independent than Cecilia; she had more reliance upon her own
judgment, and more satisfaction in her own approbation.

Though far from insensible to praise, she was not liable to be misled
by the indiscriminate love of admiration; the uniform kindness of
her manner, the consistency and equality of her character, had fixed
the esteem and passive love of her companions.

By passive love, we mean that species of affection which makes us
unwilling to offend, rather than anxious to oblige; which is more
a habit than an emotion of the mind.

For Cecilia, her companions felt active love, for she was active in
showing her love to them.

Active love arises spontaneously in the mind, after feeling particular
instances of kindness, without reflection on the past conduct or
general character; it exceeds the merits of its object, and is
connected with a feeling of generosity, rather than with a sense
of justice.

Without determining which species of love is the more flattering to
others, we can easily decide which is the most agreeable feeling to
our own minds; we give our hearts more credit for being generous
than for being just; and we feel more self-complacency when we give our
love voluntarily, than when we yield it as a tribute which we
cannot withhold.

Though Cecilia's companions might not know all this in theory, they
proved it in practice; for they loved her in a much higher proportion
to her merits than they loved Leonora.

Each of the young judges were to signify their choice by putting a
red or a white shell into a vase prepared for the purpose.

Cecilia's colour was red, Leonora's white. In the morning nothing was
to be seen but these shells, nothing talked of but the long-expected
event of the evening.

Cecilia, following Leonora's example, had made it a point of honour
not to inquire of any individual her vote previous to their final
determination.

They were both sitting together in Louisa's room; Louisa was
recovering from the measles.

Every one, during her illness, had been desirous of attending her;
but Leonora and Cecilia were the only two that were permitted to
see her, as they alone had had the distemper.

They were both assiduous in their care of Louisa; but Leonora's
want of exertion to overcome any disagreeable feelings of sensibility
often deprived her of presence of mind, and prevented her being so
constantly useful as Cecilia.

Cecilia, on the contrary, often made too much noise and bustle
with her officious assistance, and was too anxious to invent
amusements and procure comforts for Louisa, without perceiving that
illness takes away the power of enjoying them.

As she was sitting in the window in the morning, exerting herself
to entertain Louisa, she heard the voice of an old pedlar who often
used to come to the house.

Down stairs she ran immediately to ask Mrs. Villars's permission to
bring him into the hall.

Mrs. Villars consented, and away Cecilia ran to proclaim the news to
her companions; then first returning into the hall, she found the
pedlar just unbuckling his box, and taking it off his shoulders.

"What would you be pleased to want, Miss?"

said he. "I've all kinds of tweezer-cases, rings, and lockets of all
sorts," continued he, opening all the glittering drawers
successively.

"Oh!" said Cecilia, shutting the drawer of lockets which tempted her
most, "these are not the things which I want; have you any china
figures, any mandarins?"

"Alack-a-day, Miss, I had a great stock of that same china ware, but now
I'm quite out of them kind of things; but I believe," said he,
rummaging in one of the deepest drawers, "I believe I have one
left, and here it is."

"Oh, that is the very thing! what's its price?"

"Only three shillings, ma'am." Cecilia paid the money, and was
just going to carry off the mandarin, when the pedlar took out of his
great-coat pocket a neat mahogany case; it was about a foot long, and
fastened at each end by two little clasps; it had besides a small
lock in the middle.

"What is that?" said Cecilia, eagerly.

"It's only a china figure, Miss, which I am going to carry to an
elderly lady, who lives nigh at hand, and who is mighty fond of
such things."

"Could you let me look at it?"
"And welcome, Miss," said he, and opened the case.

"O goodness! how beautiful!" exclaimed Cecilia.

It was a figure of Flora, crowned with roses, and carrying a basket
of flowers in her hand.

Cecilia contemplated it with delight.

"How I should like to give this to Louisa," said she to herself;
and at last breaking silence, "Did you promise it to the old lady?"

"O no, Miss; I didn't promise it--she never saw it; and if so be
that you'd like to take it, I'd make no more words about it."

"And how much does it cost?"

"Why, Miss, as to that, I'll let you have it for half-a-guinea."

[Illustration]
Cecilia immediately produced the box in which she kept her treasure,
and emptying it upon the table, she began to count the shillings;
alas!

there were but six shillings.

"How provoking!"

said she; "then I can't have it--where's the mandarin? O I have it,"
said she, taking it up, and looking at it with the utmost disgust. "Is
this the same that I had before?"

"Yes, Miss, the very same," replied the pedlar, who, during this
time, had been examining the little box out of which Cecilia had taken
her money; it was of silver.

"Why, ma'am," said he, "since you've taken such a fancy to the
piece, if you've a mind to make up the remainder of the money, I
will take this here little box, if you care to part with it."

Now this box was a keepsake from Leonora to Cecilia. "No," said Cecilia
hastily, blushing a little, and stretching out her hand to receive
it.

"Oh, Miss!"

said he, returning it carelessly, "I hope there's no offence; I meant
but to serve you, that's all.

Such a rare piece of china-work has no cause to go a begging," added
he, putting the Flora deliberately into the case; then turning the
key with a jerk, he let it drop into his pocket, and lifting up his
box by the leather straps, he was preparing to depart.

              "Oh, stay one minute!"

        said Cecilia, in whose mind there had passed a very
        warm conflict during the pedlar's harangue.

                      "Louisa would so like this Flora," said she, arguing with herself;
"besides, it would be so generous in me to give it to her instead
of that ugly mandarin; that would be doing only common justice, for
I promised it to her, and she expects it.

Though, when I come to look at this mandarin, it is not even so
good as hers was; the gilding is all rubbed off, so that I absolutely
must buy this for her.

O yes, I will, and she will be so delighted!
Her voice is
low, smooth and scarcely audible: "I am Cleopatra."

The man at the desk lays down his pen, leans back and gently nods his
head, as much as to say, indulgently, "Yes, my child, I hear--go on!"

"I am Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, and I would speak with thee, alone."

She pauses; then raising one jeweled arm motions to Appolidorus that
he shall withdraw.

With a similar motion, the man at the desk signifies the same to his
astonished secretary.

              -------------------------------------

Appolidorus went down the long hallway, down the stone steps and
waited at the outer gate amid the throng of soldiers. They questioned
him, gibed him, railed at him, but they got no word in reply.

He waited--he waited an hour, two--and then came a messenger with a note
written on a slip of parchment. The words ran thus: "Well-beloved
'Dorus: Veni, vidi, vici! Go fetch my maids; also, all of our personal
belongings."


              -------------------------------------

        As the cities are all only two days from famine, so
        is man's life constantly but a step from dissolution.


                       A SPECIAL OCCASION


Once on a day, I spoke at the Athenæum, New Orleans, for the Young
Men's Hebrew Association.

When they had asked my fee I answered, "One Hundred Fifty Dollars."
The reply was, "We will pay you Two Hundred--it is to be a special
occasion."

A carriage was sent to my hotel for me. The Jews may be close traders,
but when it comes to social functions, they know what to do. The Jew
is the most generous man in the world, even if he can be at times cent
per cent.

As I approached the Athenæum I thought, "What a beautiful building!"
It was stone and brick--solid, subdued, complete and substantial. The
lower rooms were used for the Hebrew Club. Upstairs stretched the
splendid hall, as I could tell from the brilliantly lighted windows.

Inside, I noticed that the stairways were carpeted with Brussels.
Glancing through the wide doorways, I beheld an audience of more than
two thousand people. The great chandeliers sent out a dazzling glory
from their crystal and gold. At the sides, rich tapestries and
hangings of velvet covered the windows.

"A beautiful building," I said to my old-time friend, Maurice J. Pass,
the Secretary of the Club.

He smiled in satisfaction and replied, "Well, we seldom let things go
by default--you have tonight as fine an audience as ever assembled in
New Orleans."

We passed down a side hallway and under the stage, preparatory to
going on the platform. In this room below the stage a single electric
light shone. The place was dark and dingy, in singular contrast to the
beauty, light, cleanliness and order just beyond. In the corner were
tables piled high--evidently used for banquets--broken furniture and
discarded boxes.

Several smart young men in full dress sat on the tables smoking
cigarettes. One young man said in explanation, "We were crowded
out--had to give up our seats to ladies--so we are going to sit on the
stage."

The soft blue smoke from the cigarettes seemed to hug close about the
lonely electric light.

I saw the smoke and thought that beside the odor of tobacco I detected
the smell of smoldering pine.

"Isn't it a trifle smoky here?" I said to the young man nearest me.

He laughed at this remark and handed me a cigarette.

The Secretary of the Club and I went up the narrow stairs to the stage.
As we stood there behind the curtain I looked at the pleasant-faced
man. "You didn't detect the odor of burning wood down there, did you?"
I asked.

"No; but you see the windows are open, and there are bonfires outside,
I suppose."

"I am a fool," I thought; "and James Whitcomb Riley was right when he
said that the speaker who is about to make his bow to an audience is
always so keyed up that at the moment he is incapable of sane
thinking."

I excused myself and walked over to an open window at the back of the
stage and looked down.

It must have been forty feet to the stony street beneath.

Then I went to a side window and threw up the sash. This window looked
out on a roof ten or twelve feet below. I got a broken broom that
stood in the corner and propped the window open.

The thought of fire was upon me and I was inwardly planning what I
would do in case of a stampede. I am always thinking about what I
would do should this or that happen. Nothing can surprise me--not even
death. If any of my best helpers should leave me, I have it all
planned exactly whom I will put in their places. I have it arranged
who will take my own place--my will is made and my body is to be
cremated.

"Cremated? Not tonight!" I said to myself, as I placed the broom under
the sash. "If a panic occurs, the people will go out of the doors and
I will stick to the stage until my coat-tails singe. I'll say that the
fire is in an adjoining building; then I'll smilingly bow myself off
the stage and gently drop out of that window."

"All ready when you are," said Mr. Fass.

I passed out on the stage before that vast sea of faces.

It was a glorious sight. There was a row of military men from the
French warship in the harbor, down in front; priests, and ladies with
sparkling diamonds; a bishop wearing a purple vestment under his black
gown sat to one side; a stout lady in decollete waved a feather fan in
rhythmic, mystic motion, far back to the left.

The audience applauded encouragingly, I wished I was back in that dear
East Aurora. But I began.

In a few minutes my heart ceased to thump and I knew we were off.

I spoke for two hours, and I spoke well.

I did not push the lecture in front of me, nor did I drag it behind. I
got the chancery twist on it and carried it off big, as I do about one
time in ten. I finished in a whirlwind of applause, with the bishop
crying "Bravo!" and the fat lady with the fifty-dollar feather fan
beaming approbation.

Fass stood in the wings to congratulate me.

              -------------------------------------

I shook hands with a hundred. The house slowly emptied. I bade the
genial Fass good-by. He took my hand in both of his. "You will come
back! You must come back!" he said.

He walked with me, bareheaded, to my carriage.

He again pressed my hand.

I rode to my hotel and went to bed, and to sleep.

I was awakened by a bright glare of light that filled my room.

I got up and looked at my watch. It was just midnight.

Off to the East I saw red tongues of angry flame streaking the sky
from horizon to zenith.

"It is the Jewish Club, all right," I said.

I pulled down the blind and went back to bed.

When I went down to breakfast at seven o'clock in the morning, I heard
the newsboys in the streets crying, "All about the fire!" I bought a
paper and read the headline, "Hubbard's Lecture Hot Stuff!"

I walked out Saint Charles Avenue and viewed the smoldering ruins
where only a few hours before I had spoken to more than two thousand
people--where the bishop in purple vestment had cried "Bravo!" and the
stout lady with feathered fan had beamed approval.

"Was anybody hurt?" I asked one of the policemen on guard.

"Only one man killed--Fass, the Secretary; I believe he lies somewhere
over there to the left, beneath that toppled wall."


              -------------------------------------

        The person who reasons from a false premise is
        always funny--to other folks.


                  UNCLE JOE AND AUNT MELINDA


The opinion prevails all through the truly rural districts that the
big cities are for the most part given over to Confidence Men.

And the strange part is that the opinion is correct.

But it should not be assumed that all the people in, say, Buffalo, are
moral derelicts--there are many visitors there, most of the time, from
other sections.

And while at all times one should exercise caution, yet to assume that
the party who is "fresh" is intent on high crimes and misdemeanors may
be a rather hasty and unjust generalization.

For instance, there are Uncle Joe and Aunt Melinda, who live eight
miles back from East Aurora, at Wales Hollow. They had been married
for forty-seven years, and had never taken a wedding-journey. W. R.
ARROWSMITH.

(_To be continued._)
* * * * *

FOLK LORE.

_Weather Rules._--The interesting article on "The Shepherd of Banbury's
Weather Rules" (Vol. vii., p. 373.) has reminded me of two _sayings_
I heard in Worcestershire a few months back, and upon which my
informant placed the greatest reliance.

The first is, "If the moon changes on a Sunday, there will be a
flood before the month is out."

My authority asserted that through a number of years he has never known
this fail. The month in which the change on a Sunday has occurred
has been fine until the last day, when the flood came.

The other saying is, "Look at the weathercock on St. Thomas's day at
twelve o'clock, and see which way the wind is, and there it will stick
for the next quarter," that is, three months.

Can any of your readers confirm the above, and add any similar
"weather rules?"

J. A., JUN.

Birmingham.

_Drills presaging Death_ (Vol. vii., p. 353.).--Your correspondent asks
if the superstition he here alludes to in Norfolk is believed in
other parts.

I can give him a case in point in Berkshire:--Some twenty years ago
an old gentleman died there, a near relative of my own; and on going
down to his place, I was told by a farm overseer of his, that he was
certain some of his lordship's family would die that season, as,
in the last sowing, he had missed putting the seed in one row, which
he showed me!

"Who could disbelieve it now?" quoth the old man. I was then taken to
the bee-hives, and at the door of every one this man knocked with
his knuckles, and informed the occupants that they must now work
for a new master, as their old one was gone to heaven.

              This, I believe, has been queried in your invaluable paper some
time since.

        I only send it by the way. I know the same superstition
        is still extant in Cheshire, North Wales, and in some parts of
Scotland.

T. W. N.

Malta.BILLY AND THE BOOK


One day last Winter in New York I attended a police court on a side
street, just off lower Broadway. I was waiting to see my old friend
Rosenfeld in the Equitable Life Building, but as his office didn't
open up until nine o'clock, I put in my time at the police court.

There was the usual assortment of drunks, petty thieves--male and
female, black, white and coffee-colored--disorderlies, vagabonds and a
man in full-dress suit and a wide expanse of dull ecru shirt-bosom.

The place was stuffy, foul-smelling, and reeked with a stale
combination of tobacco and beer and patchouli, and tears, curses, fear
and promises unkept.

The Judge turned things off, but without haste. He showed more
patience and consideration than one usually sees on the bench. His
judgments seemed to be gentle and just.

The courtroom was clearing, and I started to go.

              -------------------------------------

As I was passing down the icy steps a piping child's voice called to
me, "Mister, please give me a lift!"

There at the foot of the steps, standing in the snow, was a slender
slip of a girl, yellow and earnest, say ten years old, with a shawl
pinned over her head. She held in her hand a rope, and this rope was
tied to a hand-sled. On this sled sat a little boy, shivering, dumpy
and depressed, his bare red hands clutching the seat.

"Mister, I say, please give me a lift!"

"Sure!" I said.

It was a funny sight.

This girl seemed absolutely unconscious of herself. She was not at all
abashed, and very much in earnest about something.

Evidently she had watched the people coming out and had waited until
one appeared that she thought safe to call on for help.

"Of course I'll give you a lift--what is it you want me to do?"

"I've got to go inside and see the Judge. It's about my brudder here.
He is six, goin' on seven, and they sent him home from school 'cause
they said he wasn't old enough. I'm going to have that teacher
'rested. I've got the Bible here that says he's six years old. If
you'll carry the book I'll bring Billy and the sled!"

"Where is the Bible?" I asked.

"Billy's settin' on it."

It was a big, black, greasy Family Bible, evidently a relic of better
days. It had probably been hidden under the bed for safety.

The girl grappled the sled with one hand, and with the other Billy's
little red fist.

I followed, carrying the big, black, greasy Family Bible.

Evidently this girl had been here before. She walked around the end of
the judicial bar, and laid down the sled. Then she took the Bible out
of my hands. It was about all she could do to lift it.

In a shrill, piping voice, full of business, and very much in earnest,
she addressed the Judge: "I say, Mister Judge, they sent my brudder
Billy away from school, they did. He's six, goin' on seven, and I want
that teacher 'rested and brought here so you can tell her to let Billy
go to school. Here is our Family Bible--you can see for yourself how
old Billy is!"

The Judge adjusted his glasses, stared, and exclaimed, "God bless my
soul!"

Then he called a big, blue-coated officer over and said: "Mike, you go
with this little girl and her brother, and tell that teacher, if
possible, to allow the boy to go to school; that I say he is old
enough. You understand! If you do not succeed, come back and tell me
why."

The officer smiled and saluted.

The big policeman took the little boy in his arms. The girl carried
the sled, and I followed with the Family Bible.

The officer looked at me--"Newspaper man, I s'pose?"

"Yes," I said.

"What paper?"

"The American."

"It's the best ever."

"I think so--possibly with a few exceptions."

"She's the queerest lot yet, is this kid," and the big bluecoat jerked
his thumb toward the girl.

I wonder whether he is less effectual in his ministry than his more
embroidered colleagues?

It surely behoves our teachers to come to some definite understanding
as to this question of health; to see how, by inattention to it,
we are defrauded, negatively and positively:
negatively, by the privation of that 'sweetness and light' which
is the natural concomitant of good health; positively, by the
insertion into life of cynicism, ill-temper, and a thousand corroding
anxieties which good health would dissipate.

We fear and scorn 'materialism.'

But he who knew all about it, and could apply his knowledge, might
become the preacher of a new gospel.

Not, however, through the ecstatic moments of the individual does such
knowledge come, but through the revelations of science, in connection
with the history of mankind.

Why should the Roman Catholic Church call gluttony a mortal sin?

Why should fasting occupy a place in the disciplines of religion?

What is the meaning of Luther's advice to the young clergyman who
came to him, perplexed with the difficulties of predestination and
election, if it be not that, in virtue of its action upon the brain,
when wisely applied, there is moral and religious virtue even in a
hydro-carbon?

To use the old language, food and drink are creatures of God, and
have therefore a spiritual value. Through our neglect of the monitions
of a reasonable materialism we sin and suffer daily. I might here
point to the train of deadly disorders over which science has given
modern society such control--disclosing the lair of the material
enemy, ensuring his destruction, and thus preventing that moral
squalor and hopelessness which habitually tread on the heels of
epidemics in the case of the poor.

Rising to higher spheres, the visions of Swedenborg, and the ecstasy
of Plotinus and Porphyry, are phases of that psychical condition,
obviously connected with the nervous system and state of health,
on which is based the Vedic doctrine of the absorption of the
individual into the universal soul.

Plotinus taught the devout how to pass into a condition of ecstasy.

Porphyry complains of having been only once united to God in eighty-six
years, while his master Plotinus had been so united six times in
sixty years.

              

              

                   

Repent ye, for the day is at hand!"

Her reply, uttered soft and low, was this: "I would kiss thy lips!"

He moved away and she reached to seize his garment, repeating, "I
would kiss thy lips--I would kiss thy lips!"

He turned aside, and forgot her, as he continued his warning cry, and
went his way.

The next day she waylaid the youth again; as he came near she suddenly
and softly stepped forth and said in that same low, purring voice, "I
would kiss thy lips!"

He repulsed her with scorn.

She threw her arms about him and sought to draw his head down near
hers.

He pushed her from him with sinewy hands, sprang as from a pestilence,
and was lost in the pressing throng.

That night she danced before Herod Antipas, and when the promise was
recalled that she should have anything she wished, she named the head
of the only man who had ever turned away from her. "The head of John
the Baptist on a charger!"

In an hour the wish was gratified.

Two eunuchs stood before Salome with a silver tray bearing its
fearsome burden.

The woman smiled--a smile of triumph, as she stepped forth with
tinkling feet.

A look of pride came over the painted face.

Her jeweled fingers reached into the blood-matted hair. She lifted the
head aloft, and the bracelets on her brown, bare arms fell to her
shoulders, making strange music. Her face pressed the face of the
dead.

In exultation she exclaimed, "I have kissed thy lips!"


              -------------------------------------

      He who influences the thought of his time influences
      the thought of all the time that follows. And he has
      made his impress upon eternity.


                            THE MASTER


Giovanni Bellini was his name.

Yet when people who loved beautiful pictures spoke of "Gian," every
one knew who was meant; but to those who worked at art he was "The
Master." He was two inches under six feet in height, strong and
muscular. In spite of his seventy summers his carriage was erect, and
there was a jaunty suppleness about his gait that made him seem much
younger. In fact, no one would have believed he had lived over his
threescore and ten, were it not for the iron-gray hair that fluffed
out all around under the close-fitting black cap, and the bronzed
complexion--sun-kissed by wind and by weather--which formed a trinity of
opposites that made people turn and stare.

Queer stories used to be told about him. He was a skilful gondolier,
and it was the daily row back and forth from the Lido that gave him
that face of bronze. "Mild men are nuisances in such places", said
Agostino, hastily; "our times want something of another sort."
"There be many who have fallen away from him even in our house
here," said Father Antonio,--"as it was with our blessed Lord, whose
disciples forsook him and fled.

It seems to be the only thought with some how they shall make their peace
with the Pope."
"And so the thing will be hurried through to-morrow," said Agostino,
"and when it's done and over, I'll warrant me there will be found
kings and emperors to say they meant to have saved him. It's a vile,
evil world, this of ours; an honorable man longs to see the end of
it. But," he added, coming up and speaking to Father Antonio, "I have
a private message for you."

"I am gone this moment," said Baccio, rising with ready courtesy;
"but keep up heart, brother."
So saying, the good-hearted artist left the cell, and Agostino
said,--
"I bring tidings to you of your kindred. Your niece and sister are
here in Florence, and would see you. You will find them at the house
of one Gherardo Rosselli, a rich citizen of noble blood."
"Why are they there?" said the monk, lost in amazement.

You must know, then, that a most singular discovery hath been
made by your niece at Rome. The sister of her father, being a lady
of the princely blood of Colonna, hath been assured of her birth by
the confession of the priest that married him; and being driven from
Rome by fear of the Borgias, they came hither under my escort,
and wait to see you.

So, if you will come with me now, I will guide you to them."

"Even so," said Father Antonio.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MARTYRDOM.

In a shadowy chamber of a room overlooking the grand square of Florence
might be seen, on the next morning, some of the principal personages
of our story. Father Antonio, Baccio della Porta, Agostino Sarelli,
the Princess Paulina, Agnes, with her grandmother, and mixed crowd of
citizens and ecclesiastics who all spoke in hushed and tremulous
voices, as men do in the chamber of mourners at a funeral.

The great, mysterious bell of the Campanile was swinging with dismal,
heart-shaking toll, like a mighty voice from the spirit-world; and it
was answered by the tolling of all the bells in the city, making
such wavering clangors and vibrating circles in the air over
Florence that it might seem as if it were full of warring spirits
wrestling for mastery.

Toll! toll! toll! O great bell of the fair Campanile! for this day the
noblest of the wonderful men of Florence is to offered up. Toll! for
an era is going out,--the era of her artists, her statesmen, her
poets, and her scholars. Toll! for an era is coming in,--the era of
her disgrace and subjugation and misfortune!

The stepping of the vast crowd in the square was like the patter of
a great storm, and the hum of voices rose up like the murmur of
the ocean; but in the chamber all was so still that one could have
heard the dropping of a pin.

Under the balcony of this room were seated in pomp and state the Papal
commissioners, radiant in gold and scarlet respectability; and
Pilate and Herod, on terms of the most excellent friendship, were ready
to act over again the part they had acted fourteen hundred years by
before. Now has arrived the moment when the three followers of the
Man of Calvary are to be degraded from the fellowship of His visible
Church.
Father Antonio, Agostino, and Baccio stood forth in the balcony,
and, drawing in their breath, looked down, as the three men of the
hour, pale and haggard with imprisonment and torture, were brought
up amid the hoots and obscene jests of the populace. Savonarola
first was led before the tribunal, and there, with circumstantial
minuteness, endued with all his priestly vestments, which again,
with separate ceremonies of reprobation and ignominy, were taken
from him.It was Antonello of Messina who
introduced oil-painting into Venice. Before that they mixed their
paints with water, milk or wine. But when Antonello came along with
his dark, lustrous pictures, he set all artistic Venice astir. Gian
Bellini discovered the secret, they say, by feigning to be a gentleman
and going to the newcomer and sitting for his picture. He it was who
discovered that Antonello mixed his colors with oil. Oho!

Of course, not all of the pictures in his studio are painted by the
boys: some are painted by that old Dutchman what's-his-name--oh, yes,
Durer, Alberto Durer of Nuremberg. Two Nuremberg painters were in that
very gondola last week just where you sit--they are here in Venice now,
taking lessons from Gian, they said. Gian was up there to Nuremberg
and lived a month with Durer--they worked together, drank beer
together, I suppose, and caroused. Gian is very strict about what he
does in Venice, but you can never tell what a man will do when he is
away from home. The Germans are a roystering lot--but they do say they
can paint. Me? I have never been up there--and do not want to go,
either--there are no canals there. To be sure, they print books in
Nuremberg. It was up there somewhere that they invented type, a lazy
scheme to do away with writing. They are a thrifty lot--those
Germans--they give me my fare and a penny more, just a single penny,
and no matter how much I have talked and pointed out the wonderful
sights, and imparted useful information, known to me alone--only one
penny extra--think of it!

Yes, printing was first done at Mayence by a German, Gutenberg, about
sixty years ago. One of Gutenberg's workmen went up to Nuremberg and
taught others how to design and cast type. This man, Alberto Durer,
helped them, designing the initials and making their title-pages by
cutting the design on a wood block, then covering this block with ink,
laying a sheet of paper upon it, placing it in a press, and then when
the paper is lifted off it looks exactly like the original drawing. In
fact, most people couldn't tell the difference, and here you can print
thousands of them from the one block.

Bellini makes drawings for title-pages and initials for Aldus and
Nicholas Jenson. Venice is the greatest printing place in the world,
and yet the business began here only thirty years ago. The first book
printed here was in Fourteen Hundred Sixty-nine, by John of Speyer.
There are two hundred licensed printing-presses here, and it takes
usually four men to a press--two to set the type and get things ready,
and two to run the press. This does not count, of course, the men who
write the books, and those who make the type and cut the blocks from
which they print the pictures for the illustrations. At first, you
know, the books they printed in Venice had no title-pages, initials or
illustrations. My father was a printer and he remembers when the first
large initials were printed--before that the spaces were left blank and
the books were sent out to the monasteries to be completed by hand.

Gian and Gentile had a good deal to do about cutting the first blocks
for initials--they got the idea, I think, from Nuremberg. And now there
are Dutchmen down here from Amsterdam learning how to print books and
paint pictures. Several of them are in Gian's studio, I hear--every
once in a while I get them for a trip to the Lido or to Murano.

Gentile Bellini is his brother and looks very much like him. The Grand
Turk at Constantinople came here once and saw Gian Bellini at work in
the Great Hall. He had never seen a good picture before and was
amazed. He wanted the Senate to sell Gian to him, thinking he was a
slave. They humored the Pagan by hiring Gentile Bellini to go instead,
loaning him out for two years, so to speak.

Gentile went, and the Sultan, who never allowed any one to stand
before him, all having to grovel in the dirt, treated Gentile as an
equal. Gentile even taught the old rogue to draw a little, and they
say the painter had a key to every room in the palace, and was treated
like a prince.

Well, they got along all right, until one day Gentile drew the picture
of the head of John the Baptist on a charger.

"A man's head doesn't look like that when it is cut off," said the
Grand Turk contemptuously. Gentile had forgotten that the Turk was on
familiar ground.

"Perhaps the Light of the Sun knows more about painting than I do!"
said Gentile, as he kept right on at his work.

"I may not know much about painting, but I'm no fool in some other
things I might name," was the reply.

The Sultan clapped his hands three times: two slaves appeared from
opposite doors. One was a little ahead of the other, and as this one
approached, the Sultan with a single swing of the snickersnee snipped
off his head. This teaches us that obedience to our superiors is its
own reward. But the lesson was wholly lost on Gentile Bellini, for he
did not even remain to examine the severed head for art's sake. The
thought that it might be his turn next was supreme, and he leaped
through a window, taking the sash with him. Making his way to the
docks he found a sailing vessel loading with fruit, bound for Venice.
A small purse of gold made the matter easy: the captain of the boat
secreted him, and in four days he was safely back in Saint Mark's
giving thanks to God for his deliverance.

No, I didn't say Gian was a rogue--I only told you what others say. I
am only a poor gondolier--why should I trouble myself about what great
folks do? I simply tell you what I hear--it may be so, and it may not.
God knows! There is that Pascale Salvini--he has a rival studio--and
when that Genoese, Christoforo Colombo, was here and made his
stopping-place at Bellini's studio, Pascale told every one that
Colombo was a lunatic, and Bellini another, for encouraging him to
show his foolish maps and charts. Now, they do say that Colombo has
discovered a new world, and Italians are feeling troubled in
conscience because they did not fit him out with ships instead of
forcing him to go to Spain.

No, I didn't say Bellini was a hypocrite--Pascale's pupils say so, and
once they followed him over to Murano--three barca-loads and my gondola
beside. You see it was like this: Twice a week just after sundown, we
used to see Gian Bellini untie his boat from the landing there behind
the Doge's palace, turn the prow, and beat out for Murano, with no
companion but that deaf old caretaker. Twice a week, Tuesdays and
Fridays--always at just the same hour, regardless of the weather--we
would see the old hunchback light the lamps, and in a few moments the
Master would appear, tuck up his black robe, step into the boat, take
the oar and away they would go. It was always to Murano, and always to
the same landing--one of our gondoliers had followed them several
times, just out of curiosity.

Finally it came to the ears of Pascale that Gian took this regular
trip to Murano. "It is a rendezvous," said Pascale. "It is worse than
that: an orgy among those lacemakers and the rogues of the glassworks.
Oh, to think that Gian should stoop to such things at his age--his
pretended asceticism is but a mask--and at his age!"

The Pascale students took it up, and once came in collision with that
Tiziano of Cadore, who they say broke a boat-hook over the head of one
of them who had spoken ill of the Master.

But this did not silence the talk, and one dark night, when the air
was full of flying mist, one of Pascale's students came to me and told
me that he wanted me to take a party over to Murano. Overcome with
heat and too violent exertion, she had hardly strength to support
herself; each moment appeared to her intolerably long; she
was in a state of the utmost suspense, and all her courage failed
her; even hope forsook her, and hope is a cordial which leaves the
mind depressed and enfeebled.

"The time is now come," said Cecilia; "in a few moments it will be
decided.

In a few moments!
goodness! how much I do hazard!

If I should not win the prize, how shall I confess what I have done?

How shall I beg Leonora to forgive me? I, who hoped to restore my
friendship to her as an honour!--they are gone to seek for
her--the moment she appears I shall be forgotten--what shall--what
shall I do?" said Cecilia, covering her face with her hands.

Such was her situation, when Leonora, accompanied by her companions,
opened the hall-door; they most of them ran forward to Cecilia.

As Leonora came into the bower, she held out her hand to Cecilia----"We
are not rivals, but friends, I hope," said she. Cecilia clasped her
hand, but she was in too great agitation to speak.

The table was now set in the arbour--the vase was now placed in the
middle.

"Well!" said Cecilia, eagerly, "who begins?" Caroline, one of her
friends, came forward first, and then all the others successively.

Cecilia's emotion was hardly conceivable.----"Now they are all in.
Count them, Caroline!"
"One, two, three, four; the numbers are both equal." There was a dead
silence.

"No, they are not," exclaimed Cecilia, pressing forward and putting
a shell into the vase----"I have not given mine, and I give it to
Leonora." Then snatching the bracelet, "It is yours, Leonora,"
said she; "take it, and give me back your friendship." The whole
assembly gave a universal clap and shout of applause.

"I cannot be surprised at this from you, Cecilia," said Leonora; "and
do you then still love me as you used to do?"
"O Leonora! stop! don't praise me; I don't deserve this," said she,
turning to her loudly applauding companions; "you will soon despise
me--O Leonora, you will never forgive me!

--I have deceived you--I have sold----"
At this instant Mrs. Villars appeared--the crowd divided--she had heard
all that passed from her window.

"I applaud your generosity, Cecilia," said she, "but I am to tell
you that in this instance it is unsuccessful; you have it not in
your power to give the prize to Leonora--it is yours--I have another
vote to give you--you have forgotten Louisa."
"Louisa! but surely, ma'am, Louisa loves Leonora better than she does
me!"
"She commissioned me, however," said Mrs. Villars, "to give you
a red shell, and you will find it in this box."
Cecilia started, and turned as pale as death--it was the fatal box.

Mrs. Villars produced another box--she opened it--it contained the
Flora--"And Louisa also desired me," said she, "to return you this
Flora"--she put it into Cecilia's hand--Cecilia trembled so that
she could not hold it; Leonora caught it.

"O, madam! O, Leonora!" exclaimed Cecilia; "now I have no hope left. I
intended, I was just going to tell----"
"Dear Cecilia," said Leonora, "you need not tell it me; I know it already,
and I forgive you with all my heart."
"Yes, I can prove to you," said Mrs.

Villars, "that Leonora has forgiven you: it is she who has given you the
prize; it was she who persuaded Louisa to give you her vote. I went
to see her a little while ago, and perceiving, by her countenance,
that something was the matter, I pressed her to tell me what it
was.

"'Why, madam,' said she, 'Leonora has made me promise to give my shell
to Cecilia. Now I don't love Cecilia half so well as I do Leonora;
besides, I would not have Cecilia think I vote for her because she
gave me a Flora.'

Whilst Louisa was speaking," continued Mrs. Villars, "I saw the
silver box lying on the bed; I took it up, and asked if it was
not yours, and how she came by it.

"'Indeed, madam,' said Louisa, 'I could have been almost certain that
it was Cecilia's; but Leonora gave it me, and she said that she bought
it of the pedlar this morning. If any body else had told me so, I could
not have believed them, because I remembered the box so well; but
I can't help believing Leonora.'

"'But did you not ask Cecilia about it?' said I.

"'No, madam,' replied Louisa, 'for Leonora forbade me.'
"I guessed her reason. 'Well,' said I, 'give me the box, and I will
carry your shell in it to Cecilia.'
"'Then, madam,' said she, 'if I must give it her, pray do take the
Flora, and return it to her first, that she may not think it is for
that I do it.'"
"O, generous Leonora!" exclaimed Cecilia; "but indeed, Louisa, I
cannot take your shell."
"Then, dear Cecilia, accept of mine instead of it; you cannot refuse
it--I only follow your example.I watched my chance and when the Master's back was turned I tiptoed
out, too.

              -------------------------------------

When I got down on the street I found I had left my cap, but I dared
not go back after it. I made my way down to the landing, half running,
and when I got there not a boat was to be seen--the three barcas and my
gondola were gone.

I thought I could see them, out through the mist, a quarter of a mile
away. I called aloud, but no answer came back but the hissing wind. I
was in despair--they were stealing my boat, and if they did not steal
it, it would surely be wrecked--my all, my precious boat!

I cried and wrung my hands. I prayed! And the howling winds only ran
shrieking and laughing around the corners of the building.

I saw a glimmering light down the beach at a little landing. I ran to
it, hoping some gondolier might be found who would row me over to the
city. There was one boat at the landing and in it a hunchback, sound
asleep, covered with a canvas. It was Gian Bellini's boat. I shook the
hunchback into wakefulness and begged him to row me across to the
city. I yelled into his deaf ears, but he pretended not to understand
me. Then I showed him the silver coin--the double fare--and tried to
place it in his hand. But no, he only shook his head.

I ran up the beach, still looking for a boat.

An hour had passed.

              -------------------------------------

I got back to the landing just as Gian came down to his boat.

I approached him and explained that I was a poor worker in the
glass-factory, who had to work all day and half the night, and as I
lived over in the city and my wife was dying, I must get home. Would
he allow me to ride with His Highness? "Certainly--with pleasure, with
pleasure!" he answered, and then pulling something from under his sash
he said, "Is this your cap, Signor?" I took my cap, but my tongue was
paralyzed for the moment so I could not thank him.

The wind had died down, the rain had ceased, and from between the
blue-black clouds the moon shone out. "What are you doing there, little
one?" said Cecilia in a sharp tone.

"Are you eating your early strawberries here all alone?"

"No," said Louisa, mysteriously; "I am not eating them." "What are you
doing with them--can't you answer then?

I'm not playing with you, child!" "Oh! as to that, Cecilia, you know I
need not answer you unless I choose it; not but what I would, if
you would only ask me civilly--and if you would not call me _child_."

              "Why should not I call you child?"

The
whole done into a printed book by The Roycrofters at their Shop,
which is in the Village of East Aurora, Erie County, New York
State, this year of Grace mcmx and from the founding of The
Roycroft Shop the Sixteenth.