A being, with a visage that would have suited one possessed by a devil,
crossed the path, and seized Maria by the arm. Maria had no fear but of
being detained--"Who are you? what are you?" for the form was scarcely
human. "If you are made of flesh and blood," his ghastly eyes glared on
her, "do not stop me!"

"Woman," interrupted a sepulchral voice, "what have I to do with
thee?"--Still he grasped her hand, muttering a curse.

"No, no; you have nothing to do with me," she exclaimed, "this is a
moment of life and death!"--

With supernatural force she broke from him, and, throwing her arms round
Jemima, cried, "Save me!" The being, from whose grasp she had loosed
herself, took up a stone as they opened the door, and with a kind of
hellish sport threw it after them. They were out of his reach.

When Maria arrived in town, she drove to the hotel already fixed on. But
she could not sit still--her child was ever before her; and all that had
passed during her confinement, appeared to be a dream. She went to the
house in the suburbs, where, as she now discovered, her babe had been
sent. The moment she entered, her heart grew sick; but she wondered not
that it had proved its grave. She made the necessary enquiries, and the
church-yard was pointed out, in which it rested under a turf. A little
frock which the nurse's child wore (Maria had made it herself) caught her
eye. The nurse was glad to sell it for half-a-guinea, and Maria hastened
away with the relic, and, re-entering the hackney-coach which waited for
her, gazed on it, till she reached her hotel.

She then waited on the attorney who had made her uncle's will, and
explained to him her situation. He readily advanced her some of the
money which still remained in his hands, and promised to take the whole
of the case into consideration. Maria only wished to be permitted to
remain in quiet--She found that several bills, apparently with her
signature, had been presented to her agent, nor was she for a moment at a
loss to guess by whom they had been forged; yet, equally averse to
threaten or intreat, she requested her friend [the solicitor] to call on
Mr. Venables. He was not to be found at home; but at length his agent,
the attorney, offered a conditional promise to Maria, to leave her in
peace, as long as she behaved with propriety, if she would give up the
notes. Maria inconsiderately consented--Darnford was arrived, and she
wished to be only alive to love; she wished to forget the anguish she
felt whenever she thought of her child.

They took a ready furnished lodging together, for she was above disguise;
Jemima insisting on being considered as her house-keeper, and to receive
the customary stipend. On no other terms would she remain with her
friend.

Darnford was indefatigable in tracing the mysterious circumstances of his
confinement. The cause was simply, that a relation, a very distant one,
to whom he was heir, had died intestate, leaving a considerable fortune.
On the news of Darnford's arrival [in England, a person, intrusted with
the management of the property, and who had the writings in his
possession, determining, by one bold stroke, to strip Darnford of the
succession,] had planned his confinement; and [as soon as he had taken
the measures he judged most conducive to his object, this ruffian,
together with his instrument,] the keeper of the private mad-house, left
the kingdom. Darnford, who still pursued his enquiries, at last
discovered that they had fixed their place of refuge at Paris.

Maria and he determined therefore, with the faithful Jemima, to visit
that metropolis, and accordingly were preparing for the journey, when
they were informed that Mr. Venables had commenced an action against
Darnford for seduction and adultery. The indignation Maria felt cannot be
explained; she repented of the forbearance she had exercised in giving up
the notes. Darnford could not put off his journey, without risking the
loss of his property: Maria therefore furnished him with money for his
expedition; and determined to remain in London till the termination of
this affair.

She visited some ladies with whom she had formerly been intimate, but was
refused admittance; and at the opera, or Ranelagh, they could not
recollect her. Among these ladies there were some, not her most intimate
acquaintance, who were generally supposed to avail themselves of the
cloke of marriage, to conceal a mode of conduct, that would for ever have
damned their fame, had they been innocent, seduced girls. These
particularly stood aloof.--Had she remained with her husband, practising
insincerity, and neglecting her child to manage an intrigue, she would
still have been visited and respected. If, instead of openly living with
her lover, she could have condescended to call into play a thousand
arts, which, degrading her own mind, might have allowed the people who
were not deceived, to pretend to be so, she would have been caressed and
treated like an honourable woman. "And Brutus[138-A] is an honourable
man!" said Mark-Antony with equal sincerity.

With Darnford she did not taste uninterrupted felicity; there was a
volatility in his manner which often distressed her; but love gladdened
the scene; besides, he was the most tender, sympathizing creature in the
world. A fondness for the sex often gives an appearance of humanity to
the behaviour of men, who have small pretensions to the reality; and they
seem to love others, when they are only pursuing their own
gratification. Darnford appeared ever willing to avail himself of her
taste and acquirements, while she endeavoured to profit by his decision
of character, and to eradicate some of the romantic notions, which had
taken root in her mind, while in adversity she had brooded over visions
of unattainable bliss.

The real affections of life, when they are allowed to burst forth, are
buds pregnant with joy and all the sweet emotions of the soul; yet they
branch out with wild ease, unlike the artificial forms of felicity,
sketched by an imagination painful alive. The substantial happiness,
which enlarges and civilizes the mind, may be compared to the pleasure
experienced in roving through nature at large, inhaling the sweet gale
natural to the clime; while the reveries of a feverish imagination
continually sport themselves in gardens full of aromatic shrubs, which
cloy while they delight, and weaken the sense of pleasure they gratify.
The heaven of fancy, below or beyond the stars, in this life, or in those
ever-smiling regions surrounded by the unmarked ocean of futurity, have
an insipid uniformity which palls. Poets have imagined scenes of bliss;
but, fencing out sorrow, all the extatic emotions of the soul, and even
its grandeur, seem to be equally excluded. We dose over the unruffled
lake, and long to scale the rocks which fence the happy valley of
contentment, though serpents hiss in the pathless desert, and danger
lurks in the unexplored wiles. Maria found herself more indulgent as she
was happier, and discovered virtues, in characters she had before
disregarded, while chasing the phantoms of elegance and excellence, which
sported in the meteors that exhale in the marshes of misfortune. The
heart is often shut by romance against social pleasure; and, fostering a
sickly sensibility, grows callous to the soft touches of humanity.

