    I am very much obliged to you for your letters of January twelfth and
    January fourteenth. They make your views with regard to adequate
    measures of preparation for national defence sharply clear. I am sure
    that I already understood just what your views were, but I am glad to
    have them restated in this succinct and striking way. You believe, as
    I do, that the chief thing necessary is, that we should have a trained
    citizen reserve and that the training, organization and control of
    that reserve should be under immediate federal direction.

    But apparently I have not succeeded in making my own position equally
    clear to you, though I feel sure that I have made it perfectly clear
    to Mr. Hay. It is that I am not irrevocably or dogmatically committed
    to any one plan of providing the nation with such a reserve and am
    cordially willing to discuss alternative proposals.

    Any other position on my part would indicate an attitude towards the
    Committee on Military Affairs of the House of Representatives which I
    should in no circumstances feel at liberty to assume. It would never
    be proper or possible for me to say to any committee of the House of
    Representatives that so far as my participation in legislation was
    concerned they would have to take my plan or none.

    I do not share your opinion that the members of the House who are
    charged with the duty of dealing with military affairs are ignorant of
    them or of the military necessities of the nation. On the contrary, I
    have found them well informed and actuated with a most intelligent
    appreciation of the grave responsibilities imposed upon them. I am
    sure that Mr. Hay and his colleagues are ready to act with a full
    sense of all that is involved in this great matter both for the
    country and for the national parties which they represent.

    My own duty toward them is perfectly plain. I must welcome a frank
    interchange of views and a patient and thorough comparison of all the
    methods proposed for obtaining the objects we all have in view. So far
    as my own participation in final legislative action is concerned, no
    one will expect me to acquiesce in any proposal that I regard as
    inadequate or illusory. If, as the outcome of a free interchange of
    views, my own judgment and that of the Committee should prove to be
    irreconcilably different and a bill should be presented to me which I
    could not accept as accomplishing the essential things sought, it
    would manifestly be my duty to veto it and go to the country on the
    merits. But there is no reason to anticipate or fear such a result,
    unless we should ourselves take at the outset the position that only
    the plans of the Department are to be considered; and that position,
    it seems to me, would be wholly unjustifiable. The Committee and the
    Congress will expect me to be as frank with them as I hope they will
    be with me, and will of course hold me justified in fighting for my
    own matured opinion.

    I have had a delightfully frank conference with Mr. Hay. I have said
    to him that I was perfectly willing to consider any plan that would
    give us a national reserve under unmistakable national control, and
    would support any scheme if convinced of its adequacy and wise policy.
    More he has not asked or desired.

    Sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    HON. LINDLEY M. GARRISON,
      Secretary of War.

It was clear from the President's letter and the attitude of Secretary
Garrison that there was to be no meeting of minds between the President
and his Secretary of War on the matter of preparedness. Their views could
not be reconciled, and when the President refused to support Garrison's
programme, hook, line, and sinker, the Secretary tendered his resignation,
which the President under the circumstances readily accepted. Immediately
the friends of Garrison declared that the Administration had lost its
strongest man and that it was now on the way to destruction. Neither the
President nor his many friends, however, were disturbed by these direful
predictions of disaster; and as the people pondered the President's letter
of acceptance of Mr. Garrison's resignation, wherein he showed his own
mind was open to the best method of preparing the country and that Mr.
Garrison showed petulance and impatience in handling the matter--the
sober, second thought of the country readily and quickly came to the
President's support in the belief that the dogmatic attitude of the
Secretary of War, instead of helping, was embarrassing national
preparedness.

Garrison had rendered distinguished service to the Administration and had
won many friends, especially the newspaper group of Washington, by his
open, frank method of dealing with public questions; but unfortunately for
him he was swept off his feet by the unstinted praise that came to him
from Republican journals throughout the country whenever it appeared that
he was taking an attitude--especially in the two questions of major
importance, preparedness and Mexico--that seemed to be at variance with
the Administration's point of view.

When the President's letter to Garrison was read and the contents fully
understood it showed Garrison autocratic and unyielding, and the President
open-minded and willing to adopt any plan for preparedness that seemed to
be workable. The gentle rebuke of Mr. Garrison contained in the
President's statement that he did not share Mr. Garrison's opinion that
the members of the House charged with the duty of dealing with military
affairs "are ignorant of them or of the military necessities of the
nation," completely won to the President the support of the members of
that committee and put the President in the position of asking for and
obtaining their hearty cooperation and support. Garrison's resignation,
which at first blush appeared to be disastrous to the Administration, was
soon turned to its advantage, with the result that a national defence act
was passed during the summer. It was a compromise measure but it added
very greatly to the military power of the country. In addition, it gave
great powers to the President over the railroads in the event of war and
authorized the establishment of a council of national defence.

Of course, the enemies of the President interpreted the episode as another
example of his inability to cooperate with "strong men" and continued in
the next breath to repeat their accusations that he was autocratic in his
dealings with Congress, ignoring their own inconsistency. It was precisely
because the President respected the constitutional prerogatives of the
Congress, and Mr. Garrison did not, that the break came.

Every method of propaganda was resorted to to force the hand of the
President in the matter of preparedness and to induce him to advocate and
support a programme for universal military service put forth by the
National Security League, whose backers and supporters throughout the
country were mainly Republicans. Publicity on a grand scale, public
meetings and great parades throughout the country were part of this
propaganda. While many sincere, patriotic men and women, without realizing
the politics that lay behind it, aided in this movement, it was easy to
see that back of it was a sinister political purpose to embarrass and, if
possible, to force the hand of the President. One of the leaders of this
movement was General Wood, who established, with the permission of the War
Department, the famous Plattsburg Camp. It will be recalled that this was
the stage from which Mr. Roosevelt, on an occasion, freely gave expression
to his views of bitter antagonism to the President for his seemingly
slothful attitude in urging his views on Congress with reference to the
preparedness programme. One of the favourite methods of rousing the
people, to which the National Security League resorted, was demonstrations
throughout the country in the form of preparedness parades. It was clear
to us at the White House that these parades were part of an organized
movement to "agitate" in favour of a radical programme of preparedness.
The President and I had often discussed these demonstrations. One day I
asked him if they were embarrassing him in any way and he said that they
were not, but that they might affect opinion throughout the country in
such a way as unreasonably to influence Congress for legislation so
radical in its character as to be unnecessary and burdensome to the
taxpayers of the country.

Our Republican opponents on the outside were claiming great political
results from these demonstrations and felt sure they were a mighty force
in embarrassing and weakening the President. It was finally suggested to
the President that he ought to embrace the first opportunity presented to
him of leading in one of the parades himself. Shortly after, the District
of Columbia parade took place, and the President, upon my initiative, was
invited to lead it. The effect of the President's personal participation
in this parade and in the New York parade held subsequently was quickly
evident. As soon as the moving pictures throughout the country began to
feature the President leading the demonstrations, these parades became
less frequent and finally obsolete. By getting into the "front line" the
President had cleverly outwitted his enemies and took command of the
forces in the country demanding preparedness.


CHAPTER XXIX

THE GREAT DECLARATION


In October, 1916, during the Presidential campaign, while the President
was at Shadow Lawn, New Jersey, Ambassador Gerard, at the President's
invitation, paid a visit to him and reported in detail the general
situation in Germany as to the submarine warfare. He said that the
restrictions as to submarines imposed by Germany's acceptance of the
President's ultimatum after the Sussex affair, were growing burdensome and
intolerable to the military and naval masters of Germany and that they
were bringing all kinds of pressure to bear upon the leaders of the Civil
Government, notably Von Bethmann-Hollweg and Foreign Minister Von Jagow,
to repudiate the undertaking. From the critical situation in Germany,
arising out of the controversy over the question of unrestricted submarine
warfare, which Ambassador Gerard laid before him, the President was
convinced that we were now approaching a real crisis in our relations with
Germany and that unless peace could be quickly obtained, the European
struggle would soon enter upon a phase more terrible than any in the
preceding two years, with consequences highly dangerous to the interests
of our country. The passionate wish and deep desire of the President from
the beginning was that we could keep aloof and by conserving our energies
and remaining neutral, hold ourselves in reserve as the only mediating
influence for peace; but with each passing week some untoward event
brought about by the ruthlessness of Germany made the prospect for the
interposition of America's influence daily more unlikely.

The following memorandum prepared by me on January 4, 1916, of a
conversation between the President and myself, shortly after the sinking
of the _Persia_ by a submarine, imperfectly sets forth his idea with
reference to war with Germany:

    About ten minutes to ten o'clock this morning I had a very interesting
    conversation with the President at the White House, my purpose being
    to bring to him the atmosphere of Washington and the country as far as
    I could ascertain with reference to the sinking of the _Persia_ by a
    submarine. The other purpose of my visit was to warn him that Senator
    Stone might induce him to make some admission with reference to his
    attitude which might embarrass the President in the future.

    The President looked very well after his trip and seemed to be in a
    fine mood, although it was plainly evident that the _Persia_ affair
    rested heavily upon him. My attitude toward this matter was for
    action, and action all along the line. This did not seem to meet with
    a very hearty response from the President. He informed me that it
    would not be the thing for us to take action against any government
    without our government being in possession of all the facts. I replied
    that that was my attitude, but I thought there should be action and
    vigorous action as soon as all the facts were ascertained. He agreed
    with me in this. When I began to tell him about the attitude of the
    country and the feeling in the country that there was a lack of
    leadership, he stiffened up in his chair and said: "Tumulty, you may
    as well understand my position right now. If my rejection as President
    depends upon my getting into war, I don't want to be President. I have
    been away, and I have had lots of time to think about this war and the
    effect of our country getting into it, and I have made up my mind that
    I am more interested in the opinion that the country will have of me
    ten years from now than the opinion it may be willing to express to-
    day. Of course, I understand that the country wants action, and I
    intend to stand by the record I have made in all these cases, and take
    whatever action may be necessary, but I will not be rushed into war,
    no matter if every last Congressman and Senator stands up on his hind
    legs and proclaims me a coward." He continued, speaking of the
    severance of diplomatic relations,--"You must know that when I
    consider this matter, I can only consider it as the forerunner of war.
    I believe that the sober-minded people of this country will applaud
    any efforts I may make without the loss of our honour to keep this
    country out of war." He said that if we took any precipitate action
    right now, it might prevent Austria from coming across in generous
    fashion.

The President, ten months later, was re-elected, on the slogan, "_He kept
us out of War_." If it was possible to continue at peace on terms that
would protect and conserve our national honour, he was determined to do
so. I recall how passionately he laid before Senator Tillman of South
Carolina, chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs, his desire to keep
the nation out of war. At the conclusion of the talk with the Senator, he
said: "But, Senator, it rests with Germany to say whether we shall remain
at peace." Turning to the President, Senator Tillman said: "You are right,
Mr. President, we must not go around with a chip on our shoulder. I am for
peace, but I am not for peace at any damn price." This was really
expressive of the President's attitude. He earnestly desired peace, but he
was not willing to remain at peace at the price of the nation's honour.

Early in May, 1916, the President and I had conferred regarding the
European situation and had discussed the possibility of our suggesting to
both sides that they consider the United States as a mediating influence
to bring about a settlement. Early in May, 1916, I had addressed the
following letter to the President with reference to the matter:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
       WASHINGTON

    May 16, 1916.

    MY DEAR GOVERNOR:

    As I have discussed with you on frequent occasions, it seems to me
    that the time is now at hand for you to act in the matter of _Peace_.
    The mere process of peace negotiations may extend over a period of
    months. Why should we wait until the moment of exhaustion before ever
    beginning a discussion? Everybody admits that the resources of the
    nations involved cannot last through another year without suffering of
    an untold character. It is now May. Let us assume that everybody
    accepts your offer. It would be physically impossible to get
    commissioners from various parts of the world, including Japan, in
    less than two months. Then the discussion would perhaps last until the
    fall, no matter what conclusion might be reached. Therefore, allowing
    for the time that might be consumed in persuading all the parties that
    the time is now ripe, the whole business will require almost a year in
    itself, during which time the hostilities would be continuing and
    certainly the chance of getting a truce would be better after the
    discussion had been in progress for some time. Similarly, as the time
    for the winter campaign approached, the inducement to agree on a truce
    on any terms would become more powerful each day.

    Let us look at it from the point of view of postponement. If we waited
    until the fall and the negotiations stretched out through the winter,
    the temptation for making new drives in the spring, with the
    preparations made throughout the winter, would incline the
    militaristic element in the various countries involved to block peace
    negotiations. _It seems, therefore, that the time to act is now when
    these drives are spending their force._

    As to the Procedure:

    It seems that no belligerent should be put in the position by your
    note of weakening or of suing for peace, for we must keep in mind the
    pride and sensibilities of all. The initiative must be ours--to all
    nations, on equal terms. One way to do this would be to send a note,
    saying that from the German note and from statesmen representing the
    Entente powers the Government of the United States assumes that the
    belligerent powers are willing at least to discus suggestions for
    peace, each only reserving to itself liberty of action. The United
    States can, therefore, announce that it is willing to meet at The
    Hague a commission sent by the respective governments to discuss means
    for making peace, _and for establishing a world court or international
    tribunal to safeguard the peace of the world after the close of the
    war_.

    In the latter, namely, _world peace_, the United States has a direct
    interest. The United States can in the note assume that commissioners
    will meet with it and hopes to be advised if there is any feeling to
    the contrary.

    My idea is to go ahead with the plan on the theory that all the
    belligerents are in accord with the idea, so that in answering our
    note they will not have accepted anything but our proposals to
    discuss, first, the suggestion of peace, and, secondly, the idea of a
    world court.

    The President should say, in order to elicit the sympathy of the world
    and mankind in general, that the note of the United States suggesting
    a meeting between the powers will be made public within a few days and
    after its receipt by the respective powers. This will give each
    government not only its own public opinion to reckon with, but the
    public opinion of the civilized world. The nation that objects to a
    discussion of peace will by no means be in an enviable position.

    I hope you will read the article I am sending you by Mr. Strunsky,
    "Post Impressions," especially that part I have indicated in the
    margin. It is from this article that I got the idea of suggesting the
    alternative proposition of a world court. Your note setting forth your
    position in this matter should be an appeal to the heart and to the
    conscience of the world.

    TUMULTY.

Evidently the President seriously had been considering this very matter as
was shown by the following reply to my note:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Thank you for the memorandum about peace suggestions. I have read it
    very carefully and find my own thoughts travelling very much the same
    route. You may be sure I am doing a great deal of serious thinking
    about it all.

    Faithfully,
      W. W.

The President, through the State Department and various instrumentalities
to which he had access for information, was keeping in touch with the
German situation and understood from the beginning what the German game
was with reference to peace, and to the various offers which he was
making. He knew that the German peace offers were merely an attempt on the
part of the civil government of Germany to avert a resumption of
ruthlessness at sea; that they were mere gestures on the part of the
German Government made to bolster up the morale of the German people and
that these German offers did not indicate the real desire for peace on
equitable terms, as subsequent events showed, but that they were the terms
of peace of a nation which thought itself the victor, and, therefore, in a
position ruthlessly to dictate a final settlement.

Many of the advisers of the President suggested that he should ignore
these offers. But the President was wiser than those around him in
accepting the German bid at its face value, and he finally called upon
Germany to state the practical terms upon which she was willing to
consider a settlement for peace. There was another reason for the
President's patience. Foreseeing an inevitable crisis with Germany over
the frequent sinking of our ships, he was fully conscious that he could
not draw the whole country with him in aggressive action if before he took
the step leading to war he had not tried out every means of peace. While
his enemies denounced his meekness and apparent subservience to German
diplomacy, and while some went so far as to characterize his conduct as
cowardly, he serenely moved on and forced Germany to a show-down. He not
only asked Germany to state her terms, but he frankly asked the Allies to
give to the world their statement of what they considered the basis of
peace.

One of the phrases in his note to the Allies which caused great irritation
was that "neither side had stated the object for which the war had been
started." While he was criticized for this at the time, it did just what
he intended it to do. It forced Germany openly to avow what she believed
to be the basis of peace, and gave the Allies their chance, as if they
were being forced to do it by the American President, to say what they
thought would be a just settlement.

In the latter part of January Germany announced to the United States that
she was going to begin, on February first, unrestricted submarine warfare
in the zone around the British Isles, and undertook to specify the route
which a restricted number of American ships might take through this zone.

I vividly recall the day the Associated Press bulletin reached the White
House. I took it immediately to the President who was at his desk in his
private office. As I entered, he looked up from his writing, casual
inquiry in his eyes. Without comment I laid the fateful slip of paper on
his desk, and silently watched him as he read and then re-read it. I
seemed to read his mind in the expressions that raced across his strong
features: first, blank amazement; then incredulity that even Germany could
be guilty of such perfidy; then gravity and sternness, a sudden grayness
of colour, a compression of the lips and the familiar locking of the jaw
which always characterized him in moments of supreme resolution. Handing
the paper back to me, he said in quiet tones: "This means war. The break
that we have tried so hard to prevent now seems inevitable."

On February 4th, he addressed Congress, announcing the severance of
diplomatic relations with Germany, and stating his hope that Germany would
pause before it was too late. On February 26th, the steamship. _Aneona_,
with Americans on board, was sunk, and on the next day the President
addressed Congress, suggesting the proclamation of armed neutrality as a
final effort to apply pressure to the Government of Germany, to show that
the United States was in earnest and would protect its rights against
lawless attacks at sea; but these measures failed. Germany seemed bent
upon a break with us, and on April 6, 1917, in response to a memorable
address delivered by the President on April second, the Congress of the
United States declared solemnly that a state of war existed between the
United States and the Imperial German Government.

In concluding his war message, the President said:

    It is a fearful thing to lead this great, peaceful people into war,
    into the most terrible and disastrous of all wars, civilization itself
    seeming to be in the balance. But the right is more precious than
    peace, and we shall fight for the things which we have always carried
    nearest our hearts, for democracy, for the right of those who submit
    to authority to have a voice in their own governments, for the rights
    and liberties of small nations, for a universal dominion of right by
    such a concert of free peoples as shall bring peace and safety to all
    nations and make the world itself at last free. To such a task we can
    dedicate our lives and our fortunes, everything that we are and
    everything that we have, with the pride of those who know that the day
    has come when America is privileged to spend her blood and her might
    for the principles that gave her birth and happiness and the peace
    which she has treasured. God helping her, she can do no other.

I accompanied the President to Capitol Hill on the day of the delivery of
his war message, and on that fateful day I rode with him from the Capitol
back to the White House, the echo of applause still ringing in my ears.

For a while he sat silent and pale in the Cabinet Room. At last he said:
"Think what it was they were applauding" [he was speaking of the people
who were lined along the streets on his way to the Capitol]. "My message
to-day was a message of death for our young men. How strange it seems to
applaud that."

That simple remark is one key to an understanding of Woodrow Wilson. All
politicians pretend to hate and to dread war, but Woodrow Wilson really
hates and dreads it in all the fibres of his human soul; hates it and
dreads it because he has an imagination and a heart; an imagination which
shows his sensitive perception the anguish and the dying which war
entails; a heart which yearns and aches over every dying soldier and
bleeds afresh with each new-made wound.

I shall never forget that scene in the Cabinet Room between the President
and myself. He appeared like a man who had thrown off old burdens only to
add new ones.

It was apparent in his talk with me that he felt deeply wounded at the
criticism that for months had been heaped upon him for his seeming
unwillingness to go to war with Germany. As he discussed the step he had
just taken, it was evident to me that he keenly felt the full solemnity
and tragedy of it all. Turning to me, he said: "Tumulty, from the very
beginning I saw the end of this horrible thing; but I could not move
faster than the great mass of our people would permit. Very few understood
the difficult and trying position I have been placed in during the years
through which we have just passed. In the policy of patience and
forbearance I pursued I tried to make every part of America and the varied
elements of our population understand that we were willing to go any
length rather than resort to war with Germany. As I told you months ago,
it would have been foolish for us to have been rushed off our feet and to
have gone to war over an isolated affair like the _Lusitania_. But now we
are certain that there will be no regrets or looking back on the part of
our people. There is but one course now left open to us. Our consciences
are clear, and we must prepare for the inevitable--a fight to the end.
Germany must be made to understand that we have rights that she must
respect. There were few who understood this policy of patience. I do not
mean to say this in a spirit of criticism. Indeed, many of the leading
journals of the country were unmindful of the complexities of the
situation which confronted us."

The President then took out of his pocket an old and worn newspaper
clipping, saying: "I wish to read you an analysis of my position and my
policy by a special writer for the _Manchester Guardian_, who seemed,
without consulting me or ever conferring with me, to know just what I am
driving at."

This special writer, commenting upon the Wilson policy, had said:

    Mr. Wilson's patience, now derided and criticized, will inevitably be
    the means by which he will lead his people by easy stages to the side
    of the Allies. By his methods of patience and apparent subservience to
    Germany, he will convince the whole American people that no other
    course save war is possible. This policy of Wilson's, now determined
    on, will work a complete transformation in his people. It will not
    evidence itself quickly or overnight. The moral preachment of Wilson
    before and after war will be the cause that will finally bring his
    people to the side of the Allies.

Again turning to me, the President said: "Our course from this time on is
clear. The whole business of war that we are now engaged upon is fraught
with the gravest difficulties. There will be great enthusiasm in the
country from this day. I trust it will not slacken or weaken as the
horrors of the war and its tragedies are disclosed. Of course our motives
will be misconstrued, our purposes misunderstood; some of our best friends
will misinterpret what we seek to do. In carrying on the war we will be
obliged to do certain unusual things, things that will interfere with the
lives and habits of our people, which will bring down upon us a storm of
criticism and ridicule. Our life, therefore, until this thing is over, and
God only knows when it will be over, will be full of tragedy and
heartaches."

As he spoke, he was no longer Woodrow Wilson, the protagonist of peace,
but Woodrow Wilson, the stern warrior, now grimly determined to pursue the
great cause of America to the end.

The President continued talking to me. He said: "It has not been easy to
carry these burdens in these trying times. From the beginning I saw the
utter futility of neutrality, the disappointment and heartaches that would
flow from its announcement, but we had to stand by our traditional policy
of steering clear of European embroilments. While I have appeared to be
indifferent to the criticism which has been my portion during these
critical days, a few have tried to understand my purpose and have
sympathized throughout with what I sought to do."

Then, as he lowered his voice, he said: "There is a fine chap in
Springfield, Massachusetts, editor of a great paper there, who understood
my position from the beginning and who has sympathized with me throughout
this whole business." For a moment he, paused, and then went on: "I want
to read you the letter I received from this fine man." As he read, the
emotion he felt at the tender sympathy which the words conveyed gripped
him. The letter is as follows:

    Springfield, Massachusetts,
    March 28, 1917.

    MY DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:

