[NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the
file for those who may wish to sample the author's ideas before making an
entire meal of them.  D.W.]


THE ABBE CONSTANTIN

By LUDOVIC HALEVY


BOOK 2.


CHAPTER IV

A RIOT OF CHARITY

The next day, at half-past five in the morning, the bugle-call rang
through the barrack-yard at Souvigny.  Jean mounted his horse, and took
his place with his division.  By the end of May all the recruits in the
army are sufficiently instructed to be capable of sharing in the general
evolutions.  Almost every day manoeuvres of the mounted artillery are
executed on the parade-ground.  Jean loved his profession; he was in the
habit of inspecting carefully the grooming and harness of the horses, the
equipment and carriage of his men.  This morning, however, he bestowed
but scant attention on all the little details of his duty.

One problem agitated, tormented him, and left him always undecided, and
this problem was one of those the solution of which is not given at the
Ecole Polytechnique.  Jean could find no convincing reply to this
question: Which of the two sisters is the prettier?

At the butts, during the first part of the manoeuvre, each battery worked
on its own account, under the orders of the captain; but he often
relinquished the place to one of his lieutenants, in order to accustom
them to the management of six field-pieces.  It happened on this day that
the command was intrusted to the hands of Jean.  To the great surprise of
the Captain, in whose estimation his Lieutenant held the first rank as a
well-trained, smart, and capable officer, everything went wrong.  The
Captain was obliged to interfere; he addressed a little reprimand to
Jean, which terminated in these words:

"I can not understand it at all.  What is the matter with you this
morning?  It is the first time such a thing has happened with you."

It was also the first time that Jean had seen anything at the butts at
Souvigny but cannon, ammunition wagons, horses, or gunners.

In the clouds of dust raised by the wheels of the wagons and the hoofs of
the horses Jean beheld, not the second mounted battery of the 9th
Regiment of artillery, but the distinct images of two Americans with
black eyes and golden hair; and, at the moment when he listened
respectfully to the well-merited lecture from his Captain, he was in the
act of saying to himself:

"The prettier is Mrs. Scott!"

Every morning the exercise is divided into two parts by a little interval
of ten minutes.  The officers gathered together and talked; Jean remained
apart, alone with his recollections of the previous evening.  His
thoughts obstinately gathered round the vicarage of Longueval.

"Yes!  the more charming of the two sisters is Mrs. Scott; Miss Percival
is only a child."

He saw again Mrs. Scott at the Cure's little table.  He heard her story
told with such frankness, such freedom.  The harmony of that very
peculiar, very fascinating voice, still enchanted his ear.  He was again
in the church; she was there before him, bending over her prie-Dieu, her
pretty head resting in her two little hands; then the music arose, and
far off, in the dusk, Jean perceived the fine and delicate profile of
Bettina.

"A child--is she only a child?"

The trumpets sounded, the practice was resumed; this time, fortunately,
no command, no responsibility.  The four batteries executed their
evolutions together; this immense mass of men, horses, and carriages,
deployed in every direction, now drawn out in a long line, again
collected into a compact group.  All stopped at the same instant along
the whole extent of the ground; the gunners sprang from their horses, ran
to their pieces, detached each from its team, which went off at a trot
and prepared to fire with amazing rapidity.  Then the horses returned,
the men re-attached their pieces; sprang quickly to saddle, and the
regiment started at full gallop across the field.

Very gently in the thoughts of Jean Bettina regained her advantage over
Mrs. Scott.  She appeared to him smiling and blushing amid the sunlit
clouds of her floating hair.  Monsieur Jean, she had called him, Monsieur
Jean, and never had his name sounded so sweet.  And that last pressure of
the hand on taking leave, before entering the carriage.  Had not Miss
Percival given him a more cordial clasp than Mrs. Scott had done?  Yes,
positively a little more.

"I was mistaken," thought Jean; "the prettier is Miss Percival."

The day's work was finished; the pieces were ranged regularly in line one
behind the other; they defiled rapidly, with a horrible clatter, and in a
cloud of dust.  When Jean, sword in hand, passed before his Colonel, the
images of the two sisters were so confused and intermingled in his
recollection that they melted the one in the other, and became in some
measure the image of one and the same person.  Any parallel became
impossible between them, thanks to this singular confusion of the two
points of comparison.  Mrs. Scott and Miss Percival remained thus
inseparable in the thoughts of Jean until the day when it was granted to
him to see them again.  The impression of that meeting was not effaced;
it was always there, persistent, and very sweet, till Jean began to feel
disturbed.

"Is it possible"--so ran his meditations--"is it possible that I have
been guilty of the folly of falling in love madly at first sight?  No;
one might fall in love with a woman, but not with two women at once."

That thought reassured him.  He was very young, this great fellow of
four-and-twenty; never had love entered fully into his heart.  Love!
He knew very little about it, except from books, and he had read but few
of them.  But he was no angel; he could find plenty of attractions in the
grisettes of Souvigny, and when they would allow him to tell them that
they were charming, he was quite ready to do so, but it had never entered
his head to regard as love those passing fancies, which only caused the
slightest and most superficial disturbance in his heart.

Paul de Lavardens had marvellous powers of enthusiasm and idealization.
His heart sheltered always two or three grandes passions, which lived
there in perfect harmony.  Paul had been so clever as to discover, in
this little town of 15,000 souls, numbers of pretty girls, all made to be
adored.  He always believed himself the discoverer of America, when, in
fact, he had done nothing but follow in the track of other navigators.

The world-Jean had scarcely encountered it.  He had allowed himself to be
dragged by Paul, a dozen times, perhaps, to soirees or balls at the great
houses of the neighborhood.  He had invariably returned thoroughly bored,
and had concluded that these pleasures were not made for him.  His tastes
were simple, serious.  He loved solitude, work, long walks, open space,
horses, and books.  He was rather savage--a son of the soil.  He loved
his village, and all the old friends of his childhood.  A quadrille in a
drawing-room caused him unspeakable terror; but every year, at the
festival of the patron saint of Longueval, he danced gayly with the young
girls and farmers' daughters of the neighborhood.

If he had seen Mrs. Scott and Miss Percival at home in Paris, in all
the splendor of their luxury, in all the perfection of their costly
surroundings, he would have looked at them from afar, with curiosity,
as exquisite works of art.  Then he would have returned home, and would
have slept, as usual, the most peaceful slumber in the world.

Yes, but it was not thus that the thing had come to pass, and hence his
excitement, hence his disturbance.  These two women had shown themselves
before him in the midst of a circle with which he was familiar, and which
had been, if only for this reason, singularly favorable to them.  Simple,
good, frank, cordial, such they had shown themselves the very first day,
and delightfully pretty into the bargain--a fact which is never
insignificant.  Jean fell at once under the charm; he was there still!

At the moment when he dismounted in the barrack-yard, at nine o'clock,
the old priest began his campaign joyously.  Since the previous evening
the Abbe's head had been on fire; Jean had not slept much, but he had not
slept at all.  He had risen very early, and with closed doors, alone with
Pauline, he had counted and recounted his money, spreading out his one
hundred Louis-d'or, gloating over them like a miser, and like a miser
finding exquisite pleasure in handling his hoard.  All that was his! for
him! that is to say, for the poor.

"Do not be too lavish, Monsieur le Cure," said Pauline; "be economical.
I think that if you distribute to-day one hundred francs--"

"That is not enough, Pauline.  I shall only have one such day in my life,
but one I will have.  How much do you think I shall give to-day?"

"How much, Monsieur le Cure?"

"One thousand francs!"

"One thousand francs!"

"Yes.  We are millionaires now; we possess all the treasures of America,
and you talk about economy?  Not to-day, at all events; indeed, I have no
right to think of it."

After saying mass at nine o'clock he set out and showered gold along his
way.  All had a share--the poor who acknowledged their poverty and those
who concealed it.  Each alms was accompanied by the same little
discourse:

"This comes from the new owners of the Longueval--two American ladies,
Mrs. Scott and Miss Percival.  Remember their names, and pray for them."

Then he made off without waiting for thanks, across the fields, through
the woods, from hamlet to hamlet, from cottage to cottage--on, on, on.
A sort of intoxication mounted to his brain.  Everywhere were cries of
joy and astonishment.  All these louis-d'or fell, as if by a miracle,
into the poor hands accustomed to receive little pieces of silver.  The
Curb was guilty of follies, actual follies.  He was out of bounds; he did
not recognize himself; he had lost all control over himself; he even gave
to those who did not expect anything.

He met Claude Rigal, the old sergeant, who had left one of his arms at
Sebastopol.  He was growing gray--nay, white; for time passes, and the
soldiers of the Crimea will soon be old men.

"Here!"  said the Cure, "I have twenty francs for you."

"Twenty francs?  But I never asked for anything; I don't want anything;
I have my pension."

His pension!  Seven hundred francs!

"But listen; it will be something to buy you cigars.  It comes from
America."

And then followed the Abbe's little speech about the masters of
Longueval.

He went to a poor woman whose son had gone to Tunis.

"Well, how is your son getting on?"

"Not so bad, Monsieur le Cure; I had a letter from him yesterday.  He
does not complain; he is very well; only he says there are no Kroomirs.
Poor boy!  I have been saving for a month, and I think I shall soon be
able to send him ten francs."

"You shall send him thirty francs.  Take this."

"Thirty francs!  Monsieur le Cure, you give me thirty francs?"

"Yes, that is for you."

"For my boy?"

"For your boy.  But listen; you must know from whom it comes, and you
must take care to tell your son when you write to him."

Again the little speech about the new owners of Longueval, and again the
adjuration to remember them in their prayers.  At six o'clock he returned
home, exhausted with fatigue, but with his soul filled with joy.

"I have given away all," he cried, as soon as he saw Pauline, "all! all!
all!"

He dined, and then went in the evening to perform the usual service for
the month of Mary.  But this time, the harmonium was silent; Miss
Percival was no longer there.

The little organist of the evening before was at that moment much
perplexed.  On two couches in her dressing-room were spread two frocks--
a white and a blue.  Bettina was meditating which of these two frocks she
would wear to the opera that evening.  After long hesitation she fixed on
the blue.  At half-past nine the two sisters ascended the grand staircase
at the opera-house.  Just as they entered their box the curtain rose on
the second scene of the second act of Aida, that containing the ballet
and march.

Two young men, Roger de Puymartin and Louis de Martillet, were seated in
the front of a stage-box.  The young ladies of the corps de ballet had
not yet appeared, and these gentlemen, having no occupation, were amusing
themselves with looking about the house.  The appearance of Miss Percival
made a strong impression upon both.

"Ah! ah!"  said Puymartin, "there she is, the little golden nugget!"

"She is perfectly dazzling this evening, this little golden nugget,"
continued Martillet.  "Look at her, at the line of her neck, the fall of
her shoulders--still a young girl, and already a woman."

"Yes, she is charming, and tolerably well off into the bargain."

"Fifteen millions of her own, and the silver mine is still productive."

"Berulle told me twenty-five millions, and he is very well up in American
affairs."

"Twenty-five millions!  A pretty haul for Romanelli!"

"What?  Romanelli!"

"Report says that that will be a match; that it is already settled."

"A match may be arranged, but with Montessan, not with Romanelli.
Ah! at last!  Here is the ballet."

They ceased to talk.  The ballet in Aida lasts only five minutes, and for
those five minutes they had come.  Consequently they must be enjoyed
respectfully, religiously, for there is that peculiarity among a number
of the habitues of the opera, that they chatter like magpies when they
ought to be silent, to listen, and that they observe the most absolute
silence when they might be allowed to speak, while looking on.

The trumpets of Aida had given their last heroic 'fanfare' in honor of
Rhadames before the great sphinxes under the green foliage of the palm-
trees, the dancers advanced, the light trembling on their spangled robes,
and took possession of the stage.

With much attention and pleasure Mrs. Scott followed the evolutions of
the ballet, but Bettina had suddenly become thoughtful, on perceiving in
a box, on the other side of the house, a tall, dark young man.  Miss
Percival talked to herself, and said:

"What shall I do?  What shall I decide on?  Must I marry him, that
handsome, tall fellow over there, who is watching me, for it is I that he
is looking at?  He will come into our box directly this act is over, and
then I have only to say, 'I have decided; there is my hand; I will be
your wife,' and then all would be settled!  I should be Princess!
Princess Romanelli!  Princess Bettina!  Bettina Romanelli!  The names go
well together; they sound very pretty.  Would it amuse me to be a
princess?  Yes--and no!  Among all the young men in Paris, who, during
the last year, have run after my money, this Prince Romanelli is the one
who pleases me best.  One of these days I must make up my mind to marry.
I think he loves me.  Yes, but the question is, do I love him?  No, I
don't think I do, and I should so much like to love--so much, so much!"

At the precise moment when these reflections were passing through
Bettina's pretty head, Jean, alone in his study, seated before his desk
with a great book under the shade of his lamp, looked through, and took
notes of, the campaigns of Turenne.  He had been directed to give a
course of instruction to the non-commissioned officers of the regiment,
and was prudently preparing his lesson for the next day.

But in the midst of his notes--Nordlingen, 1645; les Dunes, 1658;
Mulhausen and Turckheim, 1674-1675--he suddenly perceived (Jean did not
draw very badly) a sketch, a woman's portrait, which all at once appeared
under his pen.  What was she doing there, in the middle of Turenne's
victories, this pretty little woman?  And then who was she--Mrs. Scott
or Miss Percival?  How could he tell?  They resembled each other so much;
and, laboriously, Jean returned to the history of the campaigns of
Turenne.

And at the same moment, the Abbe Constantin, on his knees before his
little wooden bedstead, called down, with all the strength of his soul,
the blessings of Heaven on the two women through whose bounty he had
passed such a sweet and happy day.  He prayed God to bless Mrs. Scott in
her children, and to give to Miss Percival a husband after her own heart.


CHAPTER V

THE FAIR AMERICANS

Formerly Paris belonged to the Parisians, and that at no very remote
period-thirty or forty years ago.  At that epoch the French were the
masters of Paris, as the English are the masters of London, the Spaniards
of Madrid, and the Russians of St. Petersburg.  Those times are no more.
Other countries still have their frontiers; there are now none to France.
Paris has become an immense Babel, a universal and international city.
Foreigners do not only come to visit Paris; they come there to live.
At the present day we have in Paris a Russian colony, a Spanish colony,
a Levantine colony, an American colony.  The foreigners have already
conquered from us the greater part of the Champs-Elysees and the
Boulevard Malesherbes; they advance, they extend their outworks; we
retreat, pressed back by the invaders; we are obliged to expatriate
ourselves.  We have begun to found Parisian colonies in the plains of
Passy, in the plain of Monceau, in quarters which formerly were not Paris
at all, and which are not quite even now.  Among the foreign colonies,
the richest, the most populous, the most brilliant, is the American
colony.  There is a moment when an American feels himself rich enough, a
Frenchman never.  The American then stops, draws breath, and while still
husbanding the capital, no longer spares the income.  He knows how to
spend, the Frenchman knows only how to save.

The Frenchman has only one real luxury--his revolutions.  Prudently and
wisely he reserves himself for them, knowing well that they will cost
France dear, but that, at the same time, they will furnish the
opportunity for advantageous investments.  The Frenchman says to himself:

"Let us hoard!  let us hoard!  let us hoard!  Some of these mornings
there will be a revolution, which will make the 5 per cents. fall 50 or
60 francs.  I will buy then.  Since revolutions are inevitable, let us
try at least to make them profitable."

They are always talking about the people who are ruined by revolutions,
but perhaps the number of those enriched by revolutions is still greater.

The Americans experience the attraction of Paris very strongly.  There is
no town in the world where it is easier or more agreeable to spend a
great dial of money.  For many reasons, both of race and origin, this
attraction exercised over Mrs. Scott and Miss Percival a very remarkable
power.

The most French of our colonies is Canada, which is no longer ours.
The recollection of their first home has been preserved faithfully and
tenderly in the hearts of the emigrants to Montreal and Quebec.  Susie
Percival had received from her mother an entirely French education, and
she had brought up her sister in the same love of our country.  The two
sisters felt themselves Frenchwomen; still better, Parisians.  As soon as
the avalanche of dollars had descended upon them, the same desire seized
them both--to come and live in Paris.  They demanded France as if it had
been their fatherland.  Mr. Scott made some opposition.

"If I go away from here," he said, "your incomes will suffer."

"What does that matter?"  replied Susie.  "We are rich--too rich.  Do let
us go.  We shall be so happy, so delighted!"

Mr. Scott allowed himself to be persuaded, and, at the beginning of
January, 1880, Susie wrote the following letter to her friend, Katie
Norton, who had lived in Paris for some years:

"Victory!  It is decided!  Richard has consented.  I shall arrive in
April, and become a Frenchwoman again.  You offered to undertake all the
preparations for our settlement in Paris.  I am horribly presuming--
I accept!  When I arrive in Paris, I should like to be able to enjoy
Paris, and not be obliged to lose my first month in running after
upholsterers, coach-builders, horse-dealers.  I should like, on arriving
at the railway station, to find awaiting me my carriage, my coachman, my
horses.  That very day I should like you to dine with me at my home.
Hire or buy a mansion, engage the servants, choose the horses, the
carriages, the liveries.  I depend entirely upon you.  As long as the
liveries are blue, that is the only point.  This line is added at the
request of Bettina.

"We shall bring only seven persons with us.  Richard will have his valet,
Bettina and I two ladies' maids; then there are the two governesses for
the children, and, besides these, two boys, Toby and Bobby, who ride to
perfection.  We should never find in Paris such a perfect pair.

"Everything else, people and things, we shall leave in New York.  No, not
quite everything; I had for gotten four little ponies, four little gems,
black as ink.  We have not the heart to leave them; we shall drive them
in a phaeton; it is delightful.  Both Bettina and I drive four-in-hand
very well.  Ladies can drive four-in-hand in the Bois very early in the
morning; can't they?  Here it is quite possible.  Above all, my dear
Katie, do not consider money.  Be as extravagant as you like, that is all
I ask."  The same day that Mrs. Norton received this letter witnessed the
failure of a certain Garneville.  He was a great speculator who had been
on a false scent.  Stocks had fallen just when he had expected a rise.
This Garneville had, six weeks before, installed himself in a brand-new
house, which had no other fault than a too startling magnificence.  Mrs.
Norton signed an agreement--100,000 francs a year, with the option of
buying house and furniture for 2,000,000 during the first year of
possession.  A famous upholsterer undertook to correct and subdue the
exaggerated splendor of a loud and gorgeous luxury.  That done, Mrs.
Scott's friend had the good fortune to lay her hand on two of those
eminent artists without whom the routine of a great house can neither be
established nor carried on.  The first, a chef of the first rank, who had
just left an ancient mansion of the Faubourg St. Germain, to his great
regret, for he had aristocratic inclinations.

"Never," said he to Mrs. Norton, "never would I have left the service of
Madame la Duchesse if she had kept up her establishment on the same
footing as formerly; but Madame la Duchesse has four children--two sons
who have run through a good deal, and two daughters who will soon be of
an age to marry; they must have their dowries.  Therefore, Madame la
Duchesse is obliged to draw in a little, and the house is no longer
important enough for me."

This distinguished character, of course, made his conditions.  Though
excessive, they did not alarm Mrs. Norton, who knew that he was a man of
the most serious merit; but he, before deciding, asked permission to
telegraph to New York.  He wished to make certain inquiries.  The reply
was favorable; he accepted.

The second great artist was a stud-groom of the rarest and highest
capacity, who was just about to retire after having made his fortune.
He consented, however, to organize the stables for Mrs. Scott.  It was
thoroughly understood that he should have every liberty in purchasing the
horses, that he should wear no livery, that he should choose the
coachmen, the grooms, and everyone connected with the stables; that he
should never have less than fifteen horses in the stables, that no
bargain should be made with the coach-builder or saddler without his
intervention, and that he should never mount the box, except early in the
morning, in plain clothes, to give lessons in driving to the ladies and
children, if necessary.

The cook took possession of his stores, and the stud-groom of his
stables.  Everything else was only a question of money, and with regard
to this Mrs. Norton made full use of her extensive powers.  She acted in
conformity with the instructions she had received.  In the short space of
two months she performed prodigies, and that is how, when, on the 15th of
April, 1880, Mr. Scott, Susie, and Bettina alighted from the mail train
from Havre, at half-past four in the afternoon, they found Mrs. Norton at
the station of St. Lazare, who said:

"Your caleche is there in the yard; behind it is a landau for the
children; and behind the landau is an omnibus for the servants.  If
lay people express this view, so this may be their erroneous views
of the genesis and the nature of an infection to be good, but when
microbiologically trained these men met frequently to endorse the view
of the laity, the phone is in relationship is a hygiene risk, so it is
entitled to this issue to come near, especially in the most interested
parties the suspicion against the telephone through publications in
professional journals alive and will be encouraged.

Thus in the "Deutsche Post newspaper« No. 31 of 4 8. 1912 by an "often
underestimated, but in truth the very significant risk of contagion
at Fernsprecher" the speech of a threat, "the systematic attempts by major
bacteriologist in England and Germany in a bright light has been
moved. The English bacteriologist _Francis J. Allan_, "as it says in
the memo" Scientific findings on the risk of infection on the phone
"continue," used to his attempts a public telephone in the Central
London Stock Exchange.

The mouth opening of the apparatus was wiped with a cloth, and the
content of the cloth was then to try on two guinea pigs used.

The first guinea pig died 23 days later, having received from the content
of the wipe eingeimpft something was, and the dissection was the
definite identification of the tuberculosis recognize.

The second guinea pig died 27 days after infection and showed similar
signs of infection. These experiments demonstrate that lethal
Tuberkulosebazillen from public telephone to the people easily can
be transferred.

"Uncritically, as such tendentious messages held are often unacceptable
to maintain that communication is theirs have contributed to the fear
of risk of infection still on the phone to increase.

It is worthwhile to elaborate on the original publication _Allan_s in
the "Lancet" 1908 No. 4426 address: There are in all six experiments
have been employed, of which five were negative.

At the 6th Experiment the infection of the above 2 guinea pigs with
Tuberkelbazillen. This sixth attempt is described as follows: "No Phone
- P. O. Central. This wiper had a mass of _weißgrauer, sticky
Substanz_ to be liable, in dyed Ausstrich investigated, they showed a
number of acid-resistant bacilli, in the shape and form compared
Tuberkelbazillen. "It is obvious that this white-gray, sticky substance
was sputum and in such large volume, with the wiper has been removed
that you Ausstrichpräparate produce them and the rest could employ
animal testing. This case, that sputum in the speech funnel in such a
large mass is encountered, is probably almost as rare that one for
the issue of risk of infection at the telephone under normal circumstances
resulting conclusions is not entitled.

The _Allan_'s publications in the "Lancet" are capable of a completely
false picture of the possibility of contagion on the phone to
design and can thus be an attempt to address this issue scientifically
to clarify, not to be considered.

In contrast to the observations _Allan_'s results, I would like some
others cite bacteriologist.

The experiments, which is why these results are, m.

E. far broader and far more true than the adjusted _Allan_'s and therefore
deserve more attention. especially regarding the possibility of
infection with the London Tuberkelbazillen bacteriologist Dr.

_Spitta_ incoming telephone inquiries with the employees. There were
telephone in appropriate wards, where they are exclusively of lung health
are used. For the duration of a whole year, neither the equipment nor
cleaned, disinfected. Then the mouthpiece out and the liquid injected
guinea pigs. The experiment showed that even for a transfer of disease
agents very favorable conditions, no infection.

When you consider that about 8 Tuberkelbazillen enough to kill a guinea pig
to be infected, the other into account that the secretions from the lower
airways may be tubercular Tuberkelbazillen masse, and if the bell
should go on a long time in raisined states remain viable, it must get
to the trials _Spitta_s come to the conclusion that even under such favorable
conditions for the formation of a tubercular infection of a hazard not
the question. The possibility of transmission of infectious substances
is subject to a sum of factors, which may not always be together. These
issues _Tomarkin_ in a rather interesting work in the "Münchener
Medizinischen Wochenschrift".

How to infectious germs at the bell in it? The Exspirationsluft healthy
and sick persons, as has been found, completely sterilized, while the
speech act, however, as _Flügge_ has shown fine droplets, laden with
bacteria can be hurled into the environment . _Cornet_ Regarding
tuberculosis has the evidence that these droplets verstäubten because
they only exist from the mouth of saliva, very rarely Tuberkelbazillen
that are still in shock and cough, especially in the vicinity of a
speaking person secretions also squanders the depth, the well may
contain Tuberkelbazillen .

If under these conditions germs into the sound funnel arrives, it is
retrofitted for a person use the telephone option, where an infection
in two ways: Erstlich the person could be infected by infected finest
particles, which by the previous user to the sound funnel and its
surroundings hineinverstäubt there is still a floating time received,
and secondly by infected dry particles, for example in the funnel
deposited by Exspirationsluft the speakers would be raised again.

Of the pathogens, in the speech inside the bell and arrive there in any
form deposited may be coming to _Tomarkin_ into question the causative
agent of tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever of the measles,
influenza, pneumonia, meningitis, cerebrospinal fluid, various
Angin, catarrh, etc.

The handset could be used as a mediator of various skin affections
are eligible to he was often enough in direct contact with the
products of the outer skin of sick people, making it thoroughly and
can be permanently contaminated.

By the same law could handle agents considered as a disease. One
needs only to Bazillenträger thinking. A Diphtheriebazillenträger for
example, who just still in his hand hineingehustet, can Diphtheriebazillen
to handle the transfer, this could go on the hand after the person
using the telephone and this will be dangerous.

The same case would be when Typhusbazillenträgern, where the pathogen by
uncleanliness in the defecation of the palm could be reached. However,
the resulting risk _non specific to the Telephon_ because so many other
objects such as door handles the same situation would be where. The
investigation of the handle has to be considered beyond the scope
of this work, has been largely omitted.

If we are now on the assumption that speech funnel was infected with
pathogens of infectious diseases, it is still the question of a
possible contagion of importance, such as that in the funnel germs
deposited in the respiratory tract after the person using the
telephone go.

_Tomarkin_ represents the opinion that moving the speakers in the
funnel infected particles deposited very low air flows, such as
Exspirationsluft on the telephone speaking person would be sufficient.
This opinion, I would not join me on the basis of investigations carried
out in the _Müller_ »Münchener Medizinischen Wochenschrift" has published.
A decision on whether the air currents created by räusper, sneezing,
coughing, speaking of, enough to talk in the funnel was loszulösen germs,
in droplets of saliva or mucus included on the same term stayed,
I believe, belongs to the jumping points of the question of a
possible infection. under this direction of Dr.

_Müller_ the hygienic institute in Munich employed for the experiments
offer raised great interest. It allowed me to quote verbatim: "There
were now, after evidence was that the Telephonmembranen left to themselves,
long remain infected, modified manifold attempts reflected on whether
the germs in the use of the telephone from the membrane and replace into
the air go through.

In a part of the experiments, the membrane itself in the manner more or
less abundantly with Prodigiosus infected with other experiments, the
apparatus assembled and then the Prodigiosusspray suspended so
that the framing was infected.

The mount was attached so that the membrane also could be discussed
backwards. Then the membrane was in the mount with just the appropriate
extent of a neck about 10 liters of stationary bottle whose floor
completely removed by abrasion was introduced and sealed.

This was ½ to 4 hours waiting for the membrane air-dry and could be
made about only by the shock when inserting into the bottle neck
detached shoots had time to get to lower ground.

After this time were of the wide bottom opening her with all due caution
gelatin plates in Petri dishes, usually four in a row, pushed into the
bottle and the opening with a glass lid. In some experiments, the bottle
is not horizontal, but stood upright and was hollow on untergeschobenen
wood blocks.

The plates were in this case in the bottom opening, ie perpendicular to
the membrane, situated. It was now the membrane into vibrations, by first
of backward against them by a longer period of time as it was later than
these tests were negative by 1 to 2 minutes on a trumpet was blown
against them. After the shock, the whole apparatus through the 1-24 hour
security themselves, to separate into the air and transferred to
germination time grant to the cultural layers taken off.

The plates, after the removal from the bottle in the humid chamber, and 8
days were observed. From 10 such experiments are 9 totally negative,
negative, especially the trumpet experiments in which the phone so
violently into vibrations was, as it in ordinary usage garnicht occurs.
Only a single such experiments were Prodigiosus Kolonieen and not more
than 5 on the Nährplatten demonstrated. Furthermore, even with a control
trials in which the infected Speaking funnel for 24 hours vertically
above the soil was not that his diaphragm was sound vibrations, 3
Prodigiosuskolonieen dead.

When you consider how difficult it is to random tests for such infections
Inoculate with the individual to avoid germs, will these two
positive cases, no great weight should attach.

It is questionable whether the 5 Prodigiosuskeime really have fallen by
telephone. Have the worst of the many millions who were on the phone,
only a few isolated germs in isolation. The results of the tests thus
confirmed as we are already taken the view that the risk of infection
at halfway reasonable use of the telephone was minimal.

The need to disinfect, it seems we are not binding upon it. "-
_Müller_ Is in its investigations to the extent that they present
work for the interest offered on the assumption that an infection
of the speaker with pathogenic germination has occurred, and deals
then the factors that may be necessary to keep one from the outgoing
telephone contagion can take place.

_Müller_, without touching the question whether infektionsauslösende
about germs on phones are detectable already come to the conclusion that
the risk of infection is minimal, and exploited this result of his
investigations to their underlying question of the need for
disinfection of the Telephone in the negative.

I would like the chain of these experimental investigations, the
fear of the possibility of infection through the phone are able to
resolve, another link and paste trying to decide whether, under the
ordinary everyday circumstances pathogenic bacteria can be demonstrated.

I expect this from the premise that if we made her presence on the
phone for the user wants to construct a risk, in large quantity at
the speaker or listener must be liable, in any case with bacteriological
methods can demonstrate need.

The experiments, which _Allan_ in this direction that has carried out,
I do not faultless and exhaustive enough to be so even in cases
of tuberculosis by _Spitta_s investigations adequately refuted.

In order to gain an insight into the bacterial flora on the phone to
win, I have a number of totally unbiased of investigations carried out
on 40 of the most utilized of the City Telephone Greifswald: Public
Fernsprechstellen the main post office, railway post office, the station,
police stations, numerous restaurants, major department stores, private
and university hospitals including the method of my investigation
was the following: A piece of sterile cotton was in 5 cc of sterile
bouillon market.

This Wattebäuschchen wetted with broth were placed sterile tweezers
and ear trumpet bell off thoroughly.

Had the Wattebäuschchen abundantly impregnated with broth, so it is sometimes
proposed that during the rubbing sound drops from the funnel abfielen.
These drops were falling into a sterile tube with sterile broth
absorbed. After finished beating the cotton into the broth brought back,
with the help of sterile glass rods zerzupft and thoroughly washed
in the same.

Ten phones were initially listener and speaker funnel separately
investigated, because first and foremost the question of the kind
of germs interested.

As it turned out that the bacterial flora of the listener with no points
from that of the sound Bechers differed, were found in the next 20 phones
earpiece and talk with the same funnel Wattebäuschchen this off
and placed in the same broth, but their quantity in such cases to
10 cc size was.

Then she slipped on to
the box in the place of Edwards, receiving from him the reins and whip
with extreme dexterity, without allowing the already excited horses to
perceive that they had changed hands.

Mrs. Scott seated herself beside her sister.  The ponies pranced,
curveted, and threatened to rear.

"Be very careful, miss," said Edwards; "the ponies are very fresh to-
day."

"Do not be afraid," replied Bettina.  "I know them."

Miss Percival had a hand at once very firm, very light, and very just.
She held in the ponies for a few moments, forcing them to keep their own
places; then, waving the long thong of her whip round the leaders, she
started her little team at once, with incomparable skill, and left the
station with an air of triumph, in the midst of a long murmur of
astonishment and admiration.

The trot of the black ponies rang on the little oval paving-stones of
Souvigny.  Bettina held them well together until she had left the town,
but as soon as she saw before her a clear mile and a half of highroad-
almost on a dead level-she let them gradually increase their speed, till
they went like the wind.

"Oh!  how happy I am, Susie!"  cried she; "and we shall trot and gallop
all alone on these roads.  Susie, would you like to drive?  It is such a
delight when one can let them go at full speed.  They are so spirited and
so gentle.  Come, take the reins."

"No; keep them.  It is a greater pleasure to me to see you happy."

"Oh, as to that, I am perfectly happy.  I do like so much to drive four-
in-hand with plenty of space before me.  At Paris, even in the morning,
I did not dare to any longer.  They looked at me so, it annoyed me.  But
here--no one! no one! no one!"

At the moment when Bettina, already a little intoxicated with the bracing
air and liberty, gave forth triumphantly these three exclamations, "No
one!  no one!  no one!"  a rider appeared, walking his horse in the
direction of the carriage.  It was Paul de Lavardens.  He had been
watching for more than an hour for the pleasure of seeing the Americans
pass.

"You are mistaken," said Susie to Bettina; "there is some one."

"A peasant; they don't count; they won't ask me to marry them."

"It is not a peasant at all.  Look!"

Paul de Lavardens, while passing the carriage, made the two sisters a
highly correct bow, from which one at once scented the Parisian.

The ponies were going at such a rate that the meeting was over like a
flash of lightning.

Bettina cried:

"Who is that gentleman who has just bowed to us?"

"I had scarcely time to see, but I seemed to recognize him."

"You recognized him?"

"Yes, and I would wager that I have seen him at our house this winter."

"Heavens!  if it should be one of the thirty-four!  Is all that going to
begin again?"


CHAPTER VI

A LITTLE DINNER FOR FOUR

That same day, at half-past seven, Jean went to fetch the Cure, and the
two walked together up to the house.  During the last month a perfect
army of workmen had taken possession of Longueval; all the inns in the
village were making their fortunes.

Enormous furniture wagons brought cargoes of furniture and decorations
from Paris.  Forty-eight hours before the arrival of Mrs. Scott,
Mademoiselle Marbeau, the postmistress, and Madame Lormier, the mayoress,
had wormed themselves into the castle, and the account they gave of the
interior turned every one's head.  The old furniture had disappeared,
banished to the attics; one moved among a perfect accumulation of
wonders.  And the stables!  and the coach-houses!  A special train had
brought from Paris, under the high superintendence of Edwards, a dozen
carriages--and such carriages!  Twenty horses--and such horses!

The Abbe Constantin thought that he knew what luxury was.  Once a year he
dined with his bishop, Monseigneur Faubert, a rich and amiable prelate,
who entertained rather largely.  The Cure, till now, had, thought that
there was nothing in the world more sumptuous than the Episcopal palace
of Souvigny, or the castles of Lavardens and Longueval.

He began to understand, from what he was told of the new splendors of
Longueval, that the luxury of the great houses of the present day must
surpass to a singular degree the sober and severe luxury of the great
houses of former times.

As soon as the Cure and Jean had entered the avenue in the park, which
led to the house:

"Look!  Jean," said the Cure; "what a change!  All this part of the park
used to be quite neglected, and now all the paths are gravelled and
raked.  I shall not be able to feel myself at home as I used to do: it
will be too grand.  I shall not find again my old brown velvet easy-
chair, in which I so often fell asleep after dinner, and if I fall asleep
this evening what will become of me?  You will think of it, Jean, and if
you see that I begin to forget myself, you will come behind me and pinch
my arm gently, won't you?  You promise me?"

"Certainly, certainly, I promise you."

Jean paid but slight attention to the conversation of the Cure.  He felt
extremely impatient to see Mrs. Scott and Miss Percival again, but this
impatience was mingled with very keen anxiety.  Would he find them in the
great salon at Longueval the same as he had seen them in the little
dining-room at the vicarage?  Perhaps, instead of those two women, so
perfectly simple and familiar, amusing themselves with this little
improvised dinner, and who, the very first day, had treated him with so
much grace and cordiality, would he find two pretty dolls-worldly,
elegant, cold, and correct?  Would his first impression be effaced?
Would it disappear?  or, on the contrary, would the impression in his
heart become still sweeter and deeper?

They ascended the six steps at the entrance, and were received in the
hall by two tall footmen with the most dignified and imposing air.  This
hall had formerly been a vast, frigid apartment, with bare stone walls.
These walls were now covered with admirable tapestry, representing
mythological subjects.  The Cure dared scarcely glance at this tapestry;
it was enough for him to perceive that the goddesses who wandered through
these shades wore costumes of antique simplicity.

One of the footmen opened wide the folding-doors of the salon.  While
my daughter is in the closed Buffet came to him herbeizuholen, I said:
'Is it necessary that you even close to the sugar, baby? You're not
surrounded by thieves - 'Even?

What do you mean? "That old relic of the Empire, which was the
basis of the arrangement of the salon, had been replaced by a marvellous
specimen of tapestry of the end of the last century.  Then a crowd of
little easy-chairs, and ottomans of all forms and all colors, were
scattered here and there with an appearance of disorder which was the
perfection of art.

As soon as Mrs. Scott saw the Cure and Jean enter, she rose, and going to
meet them, said:

"How kind of you to come, Monsieur le Cure, and you, too, Monsieur Jean.
How pleased I am to see you, my first, my only friends down here!"

Jean breathed again.  It was the same woman.

"Will you allow me," added Mrs. So says the Advocat literally A. Morgan.
[Footnote: A.

Morgan: The Shakespeare myth and the authorship of Shakespeare's dramas.
German Autorisirte editing by Karl Müller-Mylius. (Brockhaus 1885), p.
17-18, 37 to 38, 40, p. 59, 64, p. 133, 136, 166, 168-171, 198,
208] Thus was the author of the works of Shakespeare not only the
ausbündigste all geniuses, not only a never seen on humans, but an
absolute miracle, an inexplicable, mysterious, mysterious phenomenon
in the history of mankind.

Behold the mystery of Shakespeare! And such a universal wisdom in full
armor, like Minerva from the head of Jupiter, is from the brain
of a Warwickshire farmer, the butcher was born in Stratford?

The more outrageous the Shakespeare mystery, so incomprehensible
to the authorship of William Shakespeare.

Behold the Shakespeare myth! "I am one of the many," says Dr.

Furness, "which are never able to have been William Shakespeare's life
and the dramas of Shakespeare within the space of a planetary train
close to each other.

Giebt it in the world do not have two with each other less acceptable
things.

"If the authors of the works of Shakespeare to the God heraufschraubt
and William Shakespeare of Stratford a herabwürdigt people, who in
his youth was not much better than a S tr olch, in his later years,
but a grated theatrical agent, a despicable money man, a hard
creditor and usurer was - well, then all the threads of natural
ripped the author with his works to link, then hover the works of
Shakespeare in the air, then they are vacant, their authors will
be sought which Bacon-inventor of the theory for the honest finder
and demand their wages.

You have an omniscient and omnipotent Bacon invented, not just
Shakespeare, but after Donnelly cryptograph also Marlowe and Mrs.

Windle also Montaigne wrote.

Auction Now! Who offers more? A recently published English book, no doubt
to the Auction to parodiren, most of it is Bacon's decipherer
confess that he is not just Shakespeare and Marlowe, but Robert
Green, George Peele, and all the works of Edmund Spenser had written.

This omniscient author of Shakespeare's works have, inter alia, the
discoveries already knew that until after his death were made.

So insured A. Morgan, and identifies as the two finest examples of Harvey's
doctrine of Herzthätigkeit and Newton's theory of gravitation: he did
those by the Menenius in "Coriolanus", this by Cressida in "Troilus and
Cressida" promulgated. But the fable of the Menenius is already in
Livy, and is not from the Thätigkeit of the heart, but from the stomach.
And if the faithless Cressida their attraction to all men with the fixed
center of the earth compare, so you have to make an odd idea of
Newton's gravitational astronomy and teaching have to turn it into
"the fixed center of the Earth" recognition.

Riding was their passion, their
madness.  It was also Jean's passion, so that after a quarter of an hour
they begged him to join them the next day.  There was no one who knew the
country round better than he did; it was his native place.  He should be
so happy to do the honors of it, and to show them numbers of delightful
little spots which, without him, they would never discover.

"Do you ride every day?"  asked Bettina.

"Every day and sometimes twice.  In the morning on duty, and in the
evening I am ride for my own pleasure."

"Early in the morning?"

"At half-past five."

"At half-past five every morning?"

"Yes, except Sunday."

"Then you get up--"

"At half-past four."

"And is it light?"

"Oh, just now, broad daylight."

"To get up at half-past four is admirable; we often finish our day just
when yours is beginning.  And are you fond of your profession?"

"Very.  It is an excellent thing to have one's life plain before one,
with exact and definite duties."

"And yet," said Mrs. Scott, "not to be one's own master--to be always
obliged to obey."

"That is perhaps what suits me best; there is nothing easier than to
obey, and then to learn to obey is the only way of learning to command."

"Ah!  since you say so, it must be true."

"Yes, no doubt," added the Cure; "but he does not tell you that he is the
most distinguished officer in his regiment, that--"

"Oh!  pray do not."

The Cure, in spite of the resistance of Jean, was about to launch into a
panegyric on his godson, when Bettina, interposing, said:

"It is unnecessary, Monsieur le Cure, do not say anything, we know
already all that you would tell us, we have been so indiscreet as to make
inquiries about Monsieur--oh, I was just going to say Monsieur Jean--
about Monsieur Reynaud.  Well, the information we received was
excellent!"

"I am curious to know," said Jean.

"Nothing!  nothing!  you shall know nothing.  I do not wish to make you
blush, and you would be obliged to blush."

Then turning toward the Cure, "And about you, too, Monsieur l'Abbe, we
have had some information.  It appears that you are a saint."

"Oh! as to that, it is perfectly true," cried Jean.

It was the Cure this time who cut short the eloquence of Jean.  Dinner
was almost over.  The old priest had not got through this dinner without
experiencing many emotions.  They had repeatedly presented to him
complicated and scientific constructions upon which he had only ventured
with a trembling hand.  He was afraid of seeing the whole crumble beneath
his touch; the trembling castles of jelly, the pyramids of truffles, the
fortresses of cream, the bastions of pastry, the rocks of ice.  Otherwise
the Abbe Constantin dined with an excellent appetite, and did not recoil
before two or three glasses of champagne.  He was no foe to good cheer;
perfection is not of this world; and if gormandizing were, as they say, a
cardinal sin, how many good priests would be damned!

Coffee was served on the terrace in front of the house; in the distance
was heard the harsh voice of the old village clock striking nine.  Woods
and fields were slumbering; the avenues in the park showed only as long,
undulating, and undecided lines.  The moon slowly rose over the tops of
the great trees.

Bettina took a box of cigars from the table.  "Do you smoke?"  said she.

"Yes, Miss Percival."

"Take one, Monsieur Jean.  It can't be helped.  I have said it.  Take
one--but no, listen to me first."

And speaking in a low voice, while offering him the box of cigars:

"It is getting dark, now you may blush at your ease.  I will tell you
what I did not say at dinner.  An old lawyer in Souvigny, who was your
guardian, came to see my sister in Paris, about the payment for the
place; he told us what you did after your father's death, when you were
only a child, what you did for that poor mother, and for that poor young
girl.  Both my sister and I were much touched by it."

"Yes," continued Mrs. Scott, "and that is why we have received you to-day
with so much pleasure.  We should not have given such a reception to
every one, of that you may be sure.  Well, now take your cigar, my sister
is waiting."

Jean could not find a word in reply.  Bettina stood there with the box of
cigars in her two hands, her eyes fixed frankly on the countenance of
Jean.  At the moment, she tasted a true and keen pleasure which may be
expressed by this phrase:

"It seems to me that I see before me a man of honor."

"And now," said Mrs. Scott, "let us sit here and enjoy this delicious
night; take your coffee, smoke--"

"And do not let us talk, Susie, do not let us talk.  This great silence
of the country, after the great noise and bustle of Paris, is delightful!
Let us sit here without speaking; let us look at the sky, the moon, and
the stars."

All four, with much pleasure, carried out this little programme.  Susie
and Bettina, calm, reposeful, absolutely separated from their existence
of yesterday, already felt a tenderness for the place which had just
received them, and was going to keep them.  Jean was less tranquil; the
words of Miss Percival had caused him profound emotion, his heart had not
yet quite regained its regular throb.

But the happiest of all was the Abbe Constantin.

This little episode which had caused Jean's modesty such a rude, yet
sweet trial, had brought him exquisite joy, the Abbe bore his godson such
affection.  The most tender father never loved more warmly the dearest of
his children.  When the old Cure looked at the young officer, he often
said to himself:

"Heaven has been too kind; I am a priest, and I have a son!"

The Abbe sank into a very agreeable reverie; he felt himself at home,
he felt himself too much at home; by degrees his ideas became hazy and
confused, reverie became drowsiness, drowsiness became slumber, the
disaster was soon complete, irreparable; the Cure slept, and slept
profoundly.  This marvellous dinner, and the two or three glasses of
champagne may have had something to do with the catastrophe.

Jean perceived nothing; he had forgotten the promise made to his
godfather.  And why had he forgotten it?  Because Mrs. Scott and Miss
Percival had thought proper to put their feet on the footstools, placed
in front of their great wicker garden-chairs filled with cushions; then
they had thrown themselves lazily back in their chairs, and their muslin
skirts had become raised a little, a very little, but yet enough to
display four little feet, the lines of which showed very distinctly and
clearly beneath two pretty clouds of white lace.  Jean looked at these
little feet, and asked himself this question:

"Which are the smaller?"

While he was trying to solve this problem, Bettina, all at once, said to
him in a low voice:

"Monsieur Jean!  Monsieur Jean!"

"Miss Percival?"

"Look at the Cure, he is asleep."

"Oh! it is my fault."

"How your fault?"  asked Mrs. Scott, also in a low voice.

"Yes; my godfather rises at daybreak, and goes to bed very early; he told
me to be sure and prevent his falling asleep; when Madame de Longueval
was here he very often had a nap after dinner.  You have shown him so
much kindness that he has fallen back into his old habits."

"And he is perfectly right," said Bettina, "do not make a noise, do not
wake him."

"You are too good, Miss Percival, but the air is getting a little fresh."

"Ah!  that is true, he might catch cold.  Stay, I will go and fetch a
wrap for him."

"I think, Miss Percival, it would be better to try and wake him
skilfully, so that he should not suspect that you had seen him asleep."

"Let me do it," said Bettina.  "Susie, let us sing together, very softly
at first, then we will raise our voices little by little, let us sing."

"Willingly, but what shall we sing?"

"Let us sing, 'Quelque chose d'enfantin,' the words are suitable."

Susie and Bettina began to sing:

                    If I had but two little wings,
                    And were a little feathery bird,

Their sweet and penetrating voices had an exquisite sonority in that
profound silence.  The Abbe heard nothing, did not move.  Charmed with
this little concert, Jean said to himself:

"Heaven grant that my godfather may not wake too soon!"

The voices became clearer and louder:

                    But in my sleep to you I fly,
                    I'm always with you in my sleep.

Yet the Abbe did not stir.

"How he sleeps," said Susie, "it is a crime to wake him."

"But we must; louder, Susie, louder."

Susie and Bettina both gave free scope to the power of their voices.

                    Sleep stays not, though a monarch bids,
                    So I love to wake ere break of day.

The Cure woke with a start.  After a short moment of anxiety he breathed
again.  Evidently no one had noticed that he had been asleep.  He
collected himself, stretched himself prudently, slowly, he was saved!

As is: "good morning", "good evening", "good night", "Amen," "Forth," "The
Lark", a Latin verse, which admonished the boys, early to rise, but not
in vain, "_mane_ »not« _vane_ ", a Latin verse, which sleep a false image
of the icy death called USF These lumps are under the hands of
Bacon's sources in the turns to which the greatest of all is
Liebestragödien entströmt!

first must Promus" good morning "and" _bon jour_ "have confessed before
Mercutio was able to say:" _Signor Romeo, bon jour! _ »(II. 4). First
was the Promus notirt: "Good night!"

To say to Mercutio: "Good night, friend, Romeo!" Now Julia could only
say: "And a thousand times good night!" (II. 2). In Promus is "Amen" to
the Romeo equipped and the blessing of brother Lorenzo wish to
reaffirm: "Amen!

So be it!" (II. 6). Promus As we read nothing but the word "lark".

That should be the germ from which all love the wonderful conversations
emerged: the words of Juliet: "It was the nightingale and not the lark!"
Romeos the words: "The lark's, the Tagverkünderin!" The Promus we read
Latin verse, which sleep a false image of the icy death calls. This
verse is the text of Lorenzo's speech, in which he Julien the torpor of
his drowsy effects portrays (IV. 1), the text to the words of the
old Capulets, when he's daughter in the solidification front is:
"Death lies on her, like a frost on Maien climes of the flower is
beautiful!

"Nothing would have been desirable, as if these so abundant leaves
even the name" Romeo "have confessed.

True, Mrs. Henry Pott believed him to be found: it read "_rome_"
and considered it an abbreviation of Romeo.

In truth, however, was not "_rome_» there, but "_vane_", as proposed
by side has been informed.

[Footnote: Edward Angel, No 480 in the "national newspaper" of 25
August 1894 .-- On the Promus see Bormann, P. 271-76.]

If the memory of the nurse in the earthquake eleven years before
the emergence of poetry to relate, as Delius meant, then the latter
in the fall to 1592 and then emerged a few years earlier than the
Promus, on 5

Bettina remained long, leaning on the balustrade of her balcony.

"It seems to me," said she, "that I am going to be very fond of this
place."



ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

Believing themselves irresistible
Frenchman has only one real luxury--his revolutions
Great difference between dearly and very much
Had not told all--one never does tell all
In order to make money, the first thing is to have no need of it
To learn to obey is the only way of learning to command