Produced by Oliver C. Colt and David Widger


TARTARIN DE TARASCON

By A. Daudet.


Translated by Oliver C. Colt.


Introduction.

The tale of Tartarin de Tarascon was written by Alphonse Daudet in 1872,
and was one of the many works which he produced. In it he pokes gentle
fun at a type of Frenchman who comes from the Midi, the area where he
himself was born. Tartarin has characteristics which may remind the
English-speaking reader of Toad of Toad Hall, a boastful braggart,
easily deceived, but good-hearted au fond.

The world he inhabits is, of course, very different from ours. There is
no radio or television, the motor car is no more than a plaything for
the rich. There is only the beginnings of a telephone system. Much sea
transport is still by sailing ship and the idea of mass air travel is in
the realm of science-fiction. France lost the Franco-Prussian war at the
battle of Sedan in 1870, which accounts for the flood of refugees from
Alsasce. She had also, in the 19th century rush to carve up the African
continent, seized among other places, Algeria, which she held in
subjection by force of arms. So-called Big Game Hunters were regarded
with some admiration, and indeed it was a much more perilous activity
than it is today, when high power repeating rifles with telescopic
sights make motor-borne "Sportsmen" little more than butchers.

Daudet's humour is on the whole inoffensive, but anti-semitism was rife
in certain circles in France. It was the era of the Dreyfus scandal, and
he indulges in one or two tasteless gibes at the expense of the Jews,
which I have suppressed or at least amended. He also has a passage which
might well offend the delicate susceptabilities of the less tolerant
believers in Islam, although to anyone with a nodding acquaintance with
the tents of that faith, the incident is so far-fetched as to neutralise
"The willing suspension of disbelief" I have therefore decided to
eliminate it from this version of the story. It is not very amusing and
is no great loss.

Although Daudet's humour is in the main kindly, he does not spare the
French colonial administration of the time. His treatment of the subject
is acidly satirical. It may be said that Daudet seems to know little
about firearms, less about lions and nothing about camels, but he is not
striving for verisimilitude. After all, the adventures of James Bond do
not mirror the reality of international espionage, nor do the exploits
of Bertie Wooster and Jeeves truely reflect life in the upper echelons
of British society.

This is not a schoolroom exercise in translation. It might be more
accurately described as a version in English. I have not tampered with
the story line nor made any changes in the events related, but where
I thought it necessary I have not shrunk from altering the words and
phrases used in the original to describe them. All translation must be
a matter of paraphrase. What sounds well in one language may sound
ridiculous if translated literally into another, and it is for the
translator to judge how far this process of paraphrase may be carried.

I have attempted to produce a text which will entertain the average
reader. Those who want to know exactly what Daudet wrote must consult
the French original.


TARTARIN DE TARASCON


Chapter 1.


Although it is now some twelve or fifteen years since my first meeting
with Tartarin de Tarascon, the memory of the encounter remains as fresh
as if it had been yesterday.

At that time Tartarin lived near the entrance to the town, in the third
house on the left on the Avignon road, a pretty little Tarascon villa,
with a garden in front, a balcony behind, very white walls and green
shutters.

From outside the place looked perfectly ordinary, one would never have
believed that it was the home of a hero, but when one went inside,
well... My goodness! The whole establishment had an heroic air, even the
garden!

Ah...! The Garden... there was not another like it in Europe. Not one
indigenous tree grew there, not one French flower; nothing but exotic
plants, gum trees, calabashes, cotton trees, coconut palms, mangos,
bananas, cactuses, figs and a baobab. One might have thought oneself in
the middle of Africa, thousands of miles from Tarascon. Of course none
of these trees was fully grown, the coconut palm was about the size of
a swede and the baobab (arbos gigantica) fitted comfortably into a
pot full of earth and gravel. No matter.... For Tarascon it was quite
splendid, and those citizens who were admitted, on Sundays, to have the
privilege of inspecting Tartarin's baobab went home full of admiration.

You may imagine my emotions as I walked through this remarkable
garden... they were nothing, however, to what I felt on being admitted to
the sanctum of the great man himself.

This building, one of the curiosities of the town, was at the end of the
garden, to which it opened through a glass door. Picture a large room
hung from floor to ceiling with firearms and swords; weapons from every
country in the world. Guns, carbines, rifles, blunderbusses,
knives, spears, revolvers, daggers, arrows, assegais, knobkerries,
knuckledusters and I know not what.

The brilliant sunlight glittered on the steel blades of sabres and the
polished butts of firearms. It was really quite a menacing scene... what
was a little reassuring was the good order and discipline which ruled
over this arsenal. Everything was neat tidy and dusted. Here and there a
simple notice, reading "Poison arrows, Do not touch." or "Beware. Loaded
firearms." made one feel it safe to approach.

In the middle of the room was a table. On the table was a flagon of
rum, a turkish tobacco pouch, The voyages of Captain Cook, stories
of adventure, treatises on falconry, descriptions of big-game hunts
etc... and finally seated at the table was the man himself. Forty
to forty-five years of age, short, fat, stocky and ruddy, clad in
shirt-sleeves and flannel trousers, with a close-clipped wiry beard
and a flamboyant eye. In one hand he held a book and with the other he
brandished an enormous pipe, its bowl covered by a metal cap; and as
he read some stirring tale of the pursuit of hairy creatures, he made,
pushing out his lower lip, a fierce grimace which gave his features,
those of a comfortable Tarascon "Rentier", the same air of hearty
ferocity which was evident throughout the whole house. This man was
Tartarin... Tartarin de Tarascon... the intrepid, great and incomparable
Tartarin de Tarascon.

At that time Tartarin was not the Tartarin which he is today, the great
Tartarin de Tarascon who is so popular throughout the Midi of France,
however, even at this epoch, he was already the king of Tarascon.

Let us examine how he acquired his crown. You will be aware, for a
start, that everyone in these parts is a hunter. From the highest to the
lowest hunting is a passion with the Tarasconais and has been ever since
the legendary Tarasque prowled in the marshes near the town and was
hunted down by the citizens.

Now, every Sunday morning, the men of Tarascon take up arms and leave
town, bag on back and gun on shoulder, with an excited collection of
dogs, with ferrets, with trumpets and hunting horns, it is a splendid
spectacle.... Sadly, however, there is a shortage of game... in fact
there is a total absence of game....  Animals may be dumb but they are
not stupid, so for miles around Tarascon the burrows are empty and the
nests abandoned. There is not a quail, not a blackbird, not the smallest
rabbit nor even the tiniest wheatear.

These pretty little Tarascon hills, scented with lavender, myrtle and
rosemary are very tempting, and those fine muscat grapes, swollen
with sugar, which line the banks of the Rhone, are wonderfully
appetising... yes, but there is Tarascon in he distance, and in the world
of fur and feather Tarascon is bad news. The birds of passage seem to
have marked it with a cross on their maps, and when the long wedges of
wild duck, heading for the Camargue, see far off the town's steeples,
the whole flight veers away. In short there is nothing left by way of
game in this part of the country but an old rascal of a hare, who has
escaped by some miracle the guns of Tarascon and appears determined to
stay there. This hare is well known. He has been given a name. He
is called "Speedy". He is known to live on land belonging to
M. Bompard... which, by the way, has doubled or even tripled its value.
No one has yet been able to catch him, and at the present time there
are not more than two or three fanatics who go after him. The rest have
given up and Speedy has become something of a protected species, though
the Tarasconais are not very conservation minded and would make a stew
of the rarest of creatures, if they managed to shoot one.

Now, you may say, "Since game is in such short supply, what do these
Tarasconais sportsmen do every Sunday?" What do they do? Eh! Mon Dieu!
They go out into the country, several miles from the town. They assemble
in little groups of five or six. They settle down comfortably in
some shady spot. They take out of their game-bags a nice piece of
boeuf-en-daube, some raw onions, a sausage and some anchovies and they
begin a very long luncheon, washed down by one of these jolly Rhone
wines, which encourage singing and laughter.

When all have had enough, they whistle for the dogs, load their guns and
commence the shoot. That is to say each of these gentlemen takes off his
hat, sends it spinning through the air with all his strength and takes
a pot-shot at it. The one who hits his hat most frequently is proclaimed
king of the hunt and returns to Tarascon that evening in triumph, his
perforated hat hanging from the end of his gun and to the accompaniment
of much barking and blowing of trumpets.

One need hardly tell you that there is a brisk trade in hats in the
town, and there are even hatters who sell hats already full of holes and
tears for use by the less skillful, but scarcely anyone is known to buy
them except Bezuquet the chemist.

As a hat shooter Tartarin had no equal. Every Sunday morning he left
with a new hat. Every evening he returned with a rag. In the little
house of the baobab, the attic was full of these glorious trophies.
All of Tarascon recognised him as their master in this respect. The
gentlemen elected him as their chief justice in matters relating to
the chase and arbitrator in any dispute, so that every day, between the
hours of three and four in the afternoon, at Costecalde the gunsmith's
one could see the plump figure of a man, seated gravely on a green
leather arm-chair, in the middle of the shop, which was full of hat
hunters standing about and arguing. It was Tartarin delivering justice.
Nimrod doubling as Soloman.


Chapter 2.

In addition to their passion for hunting the good people of Tarascon
had another passion, which was for drawing-room ballads. The number of
ballads which were sung in this part of the world passed all belief. All
the old sentimental songs, yellowing in ancient cardboard boxes, could
be found in Tarascon alive and flourishing. Each family had its own
ballad and in the town this was well understood. One knew, for example,
that for Bezuquet the chemist it was:-"Thou pale star whom I adore."

For the gunsmith Costecalde:-"Come with me to the forest glade."

For the Town Clark:--"If I was invisible, no one would see me." (a comic
song) Two or three times a week people would gather in one house or
another and sing, and the remarkable thing is that the songs were always
the same. No matter for how long they had been singing them, the people
of Tarascon had no desire to change them. They were handed down in
families from father to son and nobody dared to interfere with them,
they were sacrosanct. They were never even borrowed. It would never
occur to the Bezuquets to sing the Costecaldes' song or to the
Costecaldes to sing that of the Bezuquets. You might suppose that
having known them for some forty years they might sometimes sing them to
themselves, but no, everyone stuck to his own.

In the matter of ballads, as in that of hats, Tartarin played a leading
role. His superiority over his fellow citizens arose from the fact that
he did not have a song of his own, and so he could take part in all of
them, only it was extremely difficult to get him to sing at all.

Returning early from some drawing-room success, our hero preferred to
immerse himself in his books on hunting or spend the evening at the
club rather than join in a sing-song round a Nimes piano, between two
Tarascon candles. He felt that musical evenings were a little beneath
him.

Sometimes, however, when there was music at Bezuquet the chemists,
he would drop in as if by chance, and after much persuasion he would
consent to take part in the great duet from "Robert le Diable" with
madame Bezuquet the elder.

Anyone who has not heard this has heard nothing. For my part, if I live
to be a hundred, I shall always recall the great Tartarin approaching
the piano with solemn steps, leaning his elbow upon it, making his
grimace and in the greenish light reflected from the chemist's jars,
trying to give his homely face the savage and satanic expression of
Robert le Diable.

As soon as he had taken up his position, a quiver of expectation ran
through the gathering. One felt that something great was about to
happen.

After a moment of silence, madame Bezuquet the elder, accompanying
herself on the piano, began:

"Robert, thou whom I adore

And in whom I trust,

You see my fear (twice)

Have mercy on yourself

And mercy on me."

She added, sotto voce, "Its you now Tartarin."

Then Tartarin, with arm extended, clenched fist and quivering nostrils,
said three times in a formidable voice which rolled like a clap of
thunder in the entrails of the piano "Non! Non! Non!" Which as a good
southerner he pronounced "Nan. Nan. Nan" Upon which madame Bezuquet
repeated "Mercy on yourself and on me" "Nan! Nan! Nan!" Bellowed
Tartarin even more loudly... and the matter ended there.... It was not
very long, but it was so well presented, so well acted, so diabolic that
a frisson ran round the pharmacy and he was made to repeat his "Nan.
Nan. Nan." four or five times.

Afterwards Tartarin wiped his forehead, smiled at the ladies, winked at
the men and went off triumphantly to the club, where, with a casual air,
he would say, "I've just come from the Bezuquets. They had me singing in
the duet from Robert le Diable." What is more he believed it.


Chapter 3.

It was to the possession of these various talents that Tartarin owed his
high standing in the town. There were, however, other ways in which he
had made his mark on society.

In Tarascon the army supported Tartarin. The gallant Commandant Bravida
(Quartermaster. Ret) said of him "He's a stout fellow," and one may
suppose that having kitted out so many stout fellows in his time, he
knew what he was talking about.

The magistrature supported Tartarin. Two or three times, on a full
bench, the aged president Ladevèze had said of him "He's quite a
character".

Finally, the people supported Tartarin, his stolid appearance, the
heroic reputation he had somehow acquired, the distribution of small
sums of money and a few clips round the ear to the youngsters who hung
around his doorstep, had made him lord of the neighbourhood and king
of the Tarascon market-place. On the quay, on sunday evenings, when
Tartarin returned from the hunt, his hat dangling from the end of his
gun, the stevedores would nod to him respectfully and eying the arms
bulging the sleeves of his tightly buttoned jacket, would murmur to one
another, "He's strong he is. He's got double muscles." The possession of
double muscles is something you hear about only in Tarascon.

However, in spite of his numerous talents, double muscles, popular
favour and the so precious esteem of the gallant Commandant Bravida
(Quartermaster. Ret) Tartarin was not happy. This small-town life
weighed him down, stifled him. The great man of Tarascon was bored
with Tarascon. The fact is that for an heroic nature such as his, for a
daring and adventurous spirit which dreamt of battles, explorations, big
game hunting, desert sands, hurricanes and typhoons, to go every Sunday
hat shooting and for the rest of the time dispense justice at Costecalde
the gunsmith's was... well... hardly satisfying. It was enough indeed to
send one into a decline.

In vain, in order to widen his horizon and forget for a while the club
and the market square, did he surround himself with African plants; in
vain did he pile up a collection of weapons; in vain did he pore over
tales of daring-do trying to escape by the power of his imagination from
the pitiless grip of reality. Alas all that he did to satisfy his lust
for adventure seemed only to increase it. The sight of his weapons kept
him in a perpetual state of furious agitation. His rifles, his arrows
and his spears rang out war-cries. In the branches of the baobab the
wind whispered enticingly of great voyages.

How often on these heavy summer afternoons, when he was alone, reading
amongst his weaponry, did Tartarin jump to his feet and throwing down
his book rush to the wall to arm himself, then, quite forgetting that
he was in his own house at Tarascon, cry, brandishing a gun or a spear,
"Let them all come"!!... Them?... What them? Tartarin did not quite know
himself, "Them" was everything that attacked, that bit, that clawed.
"Them" was the Indian brave dancing round the stake to which his
wretched prisoner was tied. It was the grizzly bear, shuffling and
swaying, licking bloodstained lips. The Toureg of the desert, the Malay
pirate, the Corsican bandit. In a word it was "Them!"

On the other hand, a variation in the Evans Gambit is ascribed to Zukertort,
which actually occurred first in a game between Steinitz and
Blackburne, played in the London Grand Tournament of 1872. This error
seems to have been quoted from Staunton and Wormald's "Chess Theory
and Practice."

A few more words about the problems at the end of the book and we
have done with the details.

There are about a dozen compositions mostly by high-class American authors,
and some of them of very good quality; but, unfortunately, Mr. Bird has
omitted to indicate their solutions. We must suppose this to be due to
an oversight, as he gives the key moves of the four problems by English
composers.
The omission is deplorable, for many students would wish to appreciate
the author's idea, and the merits of the construction, if they fail
to solve the problem.

To quote an instance from our own experience; we could not find any
solution to the problem on page 224, which composition, we conclude,
is either of the highest order or suffers from the gravest of all faults,
that of being impossible. In either case we should have liked to examine
the solution.

Our judgment of the book, on the whole, is that it cannot be ranked in the
first class with the works of Heydebrand, Zukertort, Staunton,
Lowenthal, Neuman and Suhle, Lange, &c.; but it will satisfy the
demands of the great number of lovers of the game who do not aspire
above the second rank.

Mr. Bird's ability and ingenuity is beyond doubt, and there is ample
evidence of his qualifications in the book before us, but he has not yet
acquired that element of genius which has been defined as the capacity
for taking pains. Mr.

Bird could produce a much better book than this, and we hope he
will.

Variously estimated from 3,000 to 1,000 B.C.

CHATURANGA.
The Primeval Hindu Chess.

bp--krnb np--pppp rp------ kp------ ------pk ------pr pppp--pn bnrk--pb

[Diagram of a Chaturanga board with 4 armies. Yellow is in upper left.
Black is in upper right. Green is in lower left. Red is in lower right.]

------
The Medieval and Modern Chess.
White RNBKQBNR PPPPPPPP -------- -------- -------- -------- pppppppp
rnbkqbnr Black
[Diagram of a standard chessboard, white pieces at the top, black pieces
at the bottom.]
Derived from the Persian Chatrang, 537-540 A.D.

------
833-842.
Problem I. by the Caliph MU'TASIM BILLAH.
Black -k------ RnR----- bN-p--r- p-nQpB-- p--N-b-r -------- -P--P---
-qBK---- White White to move, and give checkmate at the ninth move.

------
About 1380.
Problem II. by 'ALI SHATRANJ.
Black ---r---r ppq---R- b--bkp-p -------- --PP---- PP-B-Q-- --K---PP
--B----- White White to play and mate in eight moves.

CHESS HISTORY AND REMINISCENCES
CONCERNING THE ORIGIN OF CHESS
A not unfair criterion is afforded of the long prevailing and continued
misconception as to the origin of chess, by the lack of knowledge regarding
early records as to its history exhibited in the literature of last century,
and the press and magazine articles of this even to the present
year.

We refer not to lines of poets such as Pope, Dryden and others,
with whom the ancient order of fiction is permissible, or to writers
of previous periods, from Aben Ezra to Ruy Lopez, Chaucer and
Lydgate, or Caxton and Barbiere, but to presumably studied and
special articles, such as those given in Dictionaries of Arts and
Sciences and in Encyclopaedias.

The great work of 1727 dedicated to the King-- which claimed to embody a
reasonable and fair account--and even the best knowledge on all subjects
referred to in it; contains an article on chess of some dimensions,
which may well be taken as an example of the average ignorance of the
knowledge of information existing at the time. The Chinese, it says,
claim to date back their acquaintance with chess to a very remote
period; so with the best testimonies of that country, which acknowledge
its receipt from India in the sixth century the writer seems to
have been quite unacquainted. Nothing occurs in the article as to the
transit of chess from India into Persia, next to Arabia and Greece,
and by the Saracens into Spain; neither does a line appear as to
Egyptian probabilities, or the nature of the game inscribed on
edifices in that country.

Though abounding in traditional names of Trojan heroes, and others equally
mythical as regards chess, the more genuine ones of Chosroes of Persia,
Harun, Mamun and Mutasem of Bagdad, Walid of Cordova, the Carlovingian
Charlemagne of France, Canute the Dane, William of Normandy the English
kings are entirely absent, nor is there a word concerning Roman games
or the edict which refers to them in which Chess and Draughts (both
mentioned) were specially protected and exempted from the interdiction
against other games; which has escaped all writers, and would certainly,
if known about, have been deemed of some significance.
The Persian and Arabian periods from the time of Chosroes, to Harun,
covers the Golden Age of Arabian literature, which is more prolific
in chess incident than any other; yet even this and Firdausi's
celebrated Persian Shahnama, and Anna Comnena's historical work
escapes notice.

We may perhaps, not implicitly trust or credit, all we read of in
some of the Eastern manuscripts biographical sketches; but there is
much of reasonable narrative we need not discredit nor reject. We may
feel disposed to accept, with some reservation, the account of the 6,000
male and 6,000 female slaves, and 60,000 horses of Al Mutasem, (the
eighth of Abbasside). The prodigious bridal expenditure, comprising
gifts of Estates, houses, jewels, horses, described in the history
of Al Mamun (the seventh of Abbasside, and the most glorious
of his race), may seem fabulous to us; the extraordinary memories
of certain scholars narrated in biographies, who could recite
thousands of verses and whole books by heart may appear worthy of
confirmation; the composition of two thousand manuscripts by one
writer, and the possession of forty thousand volumes by another,
may somewhat tax our credulity.

We may feel a little surprised to hear that Chosroes' chess men
were worth an amount equivalent to one million of our money in the
present day; we may doubt, or disagree with the opinions attributed
to Hippocrates, or to Galen; that cures were effected, or even
assisted of such complaints as diarrhea and erysipelas by the means
of chess; or, that, as the Persian suggests it has been found a
remedy of beneficial in many ailments from the heart ache to the
tooth ache.

We may doubt whether the two Lydian brothers, Lydo and Tyrrhene,
in the story of Herodotus really diminished the pangs of hunger
much by it; but, amidst all our incredulity, we can believe, and
do believe, that Chosroes and chess, Harun and chess, Charlemagne
and chess, Al Mamun and chess, Canute and chess, are as well
authenticated and worthy of credit, as other more important incidents
found in history, notwithstanding that encyclopaediasts and writers
down from the days of the Eastern manuscripts, the Persian Shahnama
and Anna Comnenas history to the days of Pope and Philidor, and of
the initiation of Sanskrit knowledge among the learned, never mention
their names in connection with chess as exponents of which the
Ravan, king of Lanka of the Hindoo law books, the famous prince
Yudhisthira and the sage Vyasa of the Sanskrit, and Nala of the
poems, and in more modern accounts, Indian King Porus, Alexander
the Great and Aristotle, are far more reasonable names inferentially,
if not sufficiently attested, than those cherished by traditionists
such as Palamedes, Xerxes, Moses, Hermes, or any of the Kings of
Babylon or their philosophers.

NOTE. The ever growing popularity of chess is forcibly and
abundantly proved in a variety of ways. One conclusive proof of
it is afforded by the enormous and ever increasing sale of Chess
Equipages, Boards, Men and Figures, Diagrams, Scoring Books, Sheets,
&c., a somewhat matter of fact, it is true, but at the same time
practical, reliable, and satisfactory species of evidence. Its progress
is further attested by the extreme favour in which Chess Tournaments
both International and National, are held, at home and abroad, which
attract a degree of attention and awaken an interest little dreamt
of during any past period of the history of the game; and it is
further illustrated by the continued formation of Chess Clubs in
every sphere, the ever widening interest in the home circle, and
by many other facts which indicate with absolute certainty its
highly enhanced appreciation among the thoughtful and intelligent
of all classes of the community.

The humble and working classes have, in recent years, began to
avail themselves very considerably of the enjoyment of the game, and this
is a powerful and laudable ground for gratification, because chess,
besides being innocent, intellectual and mentally highly invigorating,
though soothing also, is essentially inexpensive and does not tend
to the sort of excitement too often occasioned by some other games
where the temptation, too often indulged, of spending money principally
when losing, in hopes of obtaining supposed stimulating consolation
and nerve, is so frequently manifested, that it appears at times
to be so irresistible an accompaniment of the game as to become
almost a condition and part of the play.

Chess in fact, affords the greatest maximum of enjoyment, with the
smallest minimum of expense; it is at the same time the most pleasingly
absorbing, yet the most scientific of games; it is also looked
upon as the most ancient, and with, perhaps, the exception of
Draughts probably is.

The reason why it has been for so many ages, and still is called the
"Royal Game" is, because it came to Europe from Persia, and took
its name from Schach or Shah, which, in that language signifies
King, and Matt dead from the Arabic language making combined "Schach
Matt" the King is dead, which is the derivation of our "Checkmate."

The degree of intellectual skill which chess admits of, has been considered
and pronounced so high, that Leibnitz declared it to be far less a
game than a science. Euler, Franklin, Buckle and others have expressed
similar views; and the Egyptians, the Persians, and the Arabians
according to many writers, including Mr. Warton and the Rev. Mr. Lambe,
have also so regarded it.

Chess is so ancient that, by that distinction alone, it seems taken beyond
the category of games altogether; and it has been said that it probably
would have perished long ago, if it had not been destined to live for
ever. It affords so much genuine intrinsic interest that it can be
played without pecuniary stake; and has been so played more than
all other games put together, and continues to be so during the
present time on occasions, by the very finest players. It exists,
flourishes, and gains ground continually and prodigiously, although
the average annual support in amount for first class chivalrous
chess competitions, tournaments and matches in all Great Britain
does not equal that put on in former years as the stake of a good
prize fight; whilst the receipts of a great football match at
Bradford and other important cities, which can be named, exceeds
the combined incomes of all the few remaining British chess masters
derived from chess instruction and skill in play.

Chess is, moreover, surrounded by a host of associations, and is
suggestive of a pleasant mass of memories, anecdotes, manners, and
incidents, such as no other game, and hardly any science may presume to
boast; and though never yet honoured throughout its long life by any
continuous history, or consecutive and connected record, its
traditions from time immemorial have been of the most illustrious,
royal, and noble character.

More apt at figures, than at diction, I have no claim to powers of
writing or learning, which can afford me any hopes of doing full justice
to so important a task as a worthy work on the history of chess would
be; my labours and experience, however, may have enabled me to
gather together materials for a more solid and substantial chess
structure, than at present exists and I am not without confidence that
competent and skilful workers will be found to construct an edifice
more worthy of our day, which present, and pending, grand developments
will still further consolidate in interest and glory; a building in
fact cemented by the noblest and most worthy, praiseworthy, and
commendable associations with which the aspiring and deserving artisan
and mechanic of the present and future, may be as closely identified
as the greatest rulers, deepest thinkers, and most accomplished and
profound scholars, and distinguished men of science of the past; affording
also a substantial boon, which may be conferred by philanthropists
on their less fortunate brethren in society, as it is calculated
to induce temperate as well as peaceful and thoughtful habits.

A bond of social union also to all who appreciate and care to avail
themselves of the relief and advantages which chess is so well known
to afford, over other less innocent, less intellectual and more
expensive and objectionable movements.

------
The following notice of chess shortly after the death of Dr.

Zukertort, add materially to an increasing appreciation of chess among
the working classes, and help the good work on.

"THE WEEKLY DISPATCH," June 24th, 1888.

By the sudden death of Dr.

Zukertort, last Wednesday morning, the royal game of chess loses one of
its most interesting and brilliant exponents. This distinguished master
was only forty-six, and he has been cut off right in the middle of
an interesting tournament at the British Chess Club, in which he stood
the best chance of winning the first prize. Amongst his last conversations
was his arranging to play Blackburne on Saturday, the 23rd, and Bird
on Monday, the 25th. The extreme painfulness of Zukertort's death to
his friends cannot be estimated by the general public.
Famous cricketers and famous actors are applauded by those they
entertain or amuse. The chess master receives no applause; over the
board, however, he enters into conversation with amateurs, and is rewarded
by friendships that far outweigh the wildest ephemeral outbursts
of approval.

The friendships so formed by Zukertort have now been snapped, and his
removal has caused, in the words of the old player Bird, "a severe
blank." Bird himself is an interesting character. He is by far the oldest
chess master, does the chess correspondence for the Times, and is as
well known by his chess books as by his play. The game between him and
Zukertort in the tournament now in progress was looked forward to with
intense interest, for he and Zukertort were the leading scorers, and the
fight for the first prize would have centred in this contest. A good
feature in Bird's character is his disposition to make acquaintances
with working men. He has taught many of them his "charming game," and
has frequently been told afterwards that it has been the means of
saving them a few shillings every week. This is easily understood, for
a man that plays chess is not likely to play "penny nap" nor to drink
much four-ale. Such at any rate, is Mr. Bird's theory; and he is just
now endeavouring to promote a scheme for the popularising of chess amongst
the industrial classes.

CHESS NOTES AND REFERENCES
THEORIES AS TO THE INVENTION OF CHESS
The honour of the invention of chess has been claimed, we are told, by
seven countries, China, India, Egypt, Greece, Assyria, Persia and
Arabia.

Capt. Kennedy, in one of his chess sketches observes, and Mr.
Staunton, in his Chess Player's Chronicle repeats the statement, thus:
"That this is as many countries as aforetime there were cities in
Greece, each of which, it is said, having peacefully allowed Homer
to starve during his life-time, started up after he died in a fierce
contention for the glory of having given him birth.

My old friends, Capt. Kennedy and Mr. Staunton, no doubt, used the words
"starved" figuratively, for neglected by his country, for myself,
I really do not know whether Homer really was neglected by his
country or not.

------ 
TRADITIONS AS TO THE ORIGIN
The traditions of chess are numerous and conflicting, Zakaria Yahya
a writer of the tenth century in "The Delight of the Intelligent
in Description of Chess" referring to stories extant and fables
respecting its invention to that time remarks, "It is said to have
been played by Aristotle, by Yafet Ibn Nuh (Japhet son of Noah) by
Sam ben Nuh (Shem) by Solomon for the loss of his son, and even by
Adam when he grieved for Abel.

Aben Ezra, the famous Rabbi, interpreter, and expounder of scripture,
and who is said to have excelled in every branch of knowledge,
attributed the invention of chess to Moses. His celebrated poem on chess,
written about 1130 A.D., has been translated into nearly all languages
of the civilized globe, into English by Dr. Thomas Hyde, Oxford,
1694.

The unknown Persian, author of the imperfect M.S. presented by Major
Price the eminent Orientalist, to the Asiatic Society, and upon
which N. Bland, Esq., mainly bases his admirable treatise on Persian
Chess, 1850, says--"Hermes, a Grecian sage, invented chess, and that
it was abridged and sent to Persia in the sixth century of our era."
The famous Shahnama, by Firdausi, called the Homer of Persia, and other
Eastern manuscripts as well as the M.S. of the Asiatic Society, give
less ancient traditions of the adaption of chess relating to the time
of Alexander the Great and Indian Kings, Fur, Poris, and Kaid; in
one of these the reward of a grain of corn doubled sixty-four times
was stipulated for by the philosopher, and the seeming insignificance
of the demand astonished and displeased the King, who wished to
make a substantial recognition worthy of his own greatness and
power, and it occasioned sneers and ridicule on the part of the
King's treasurer and accountant at Sassa's supposed lack of wisdom
and judgment.

However, astonishment and chagrin succeeded before they were half way
through their computation, for when the total was arrived at, it was
found to exceed all the wealth of the world, and the King knew not
which to admire most, the ingenuity of the game itself, or that of the
minister's demand.

The earliest European work on chess is supposed to be that of Jacobus de
Cessolus, a monk of Picardy, which appeared (it is said) in 1290
(scheilt swischen 1250-1275 Linde 1-10).

His favourite names are Evil Merodach, King of Babylon and a
philosopher named Xerxes, Massman, 1830, gives Ammelin, Amilin,
Amilon and Selenus, Ibl, Xerxes whose Greek name was Philometer to
whom 597 B.C. has been assigned.

Palamedes and Diomedes of Trojan celebrity, the Lydians of Herodotus,
the Thoth of Plato, the Hermes of the Asiatic Society's philosopher;
in fact nearly every one of the Gods who has in turn served as the
Great Mythological Divinity has been credited with the discovery
of chess.

NOTE. There are few parts of learning so involved in obscurity, as
the history of Pagan idolatry. It may, perhaps, be some satisfaction to
us to think that the ancients themselves knew even less of the
matter than we do; but if so, it furnishes a strong argument for
the necessity of being very cautious in drawing our conclusions.

We believe it may safely be said, that there is not one among all the
fabled deities of antiquity, whom (if the writers of antiquity may
be trusted) it is not possible to identify with every other--Saturn,
Jupiter, Mercury, Pan, Hercules, Priapus, Bacchus, Bel, Moloch,
Chemosh, Taut, Thoth, Osiris, Buddha, Vishnou, Siva, all and each
of these may be shown to be one and the same person.

And whether we suppose this person to have been the Sun, or to have
been Adam, or Seth, or Enoch, or Noah, or Shem, or Ham, or Japhet,
the conclusion will be still the same, each of them, it may be shewn
was worshipped as the Sun, and all of them, wherever their worship
was established, were severally considered as the Great Mythological
Divinity.

So far, It would not appear that there is any room for much difference
of opinion, at least, not if ancient authorities may be depended on.

------
Dr.

Salvic states on the strength of one of his authorities, and Alexandre
apparently quite seriously has repeated the statement that the text
in Samuel of Abner and Joab's twelve chosen champions "Let the
young men now arise and play before us" may be applicable to chess, but
the context of the chapter is opposed to any such conclusion. All the
foregoing fabulous accounts may be at least declared "not proven" if
not utterly unworthy even of the verdict pronounced in those two
words.

There are three more modern traditions or accounts, the first of which
is referred to Alexander the Great's time 336 to 322 B.C., and the two
others to about the time of Chosroes--900 years later.
Forbes devotes thirteen pages to them and they are given with less
detail by the Rev.

R. Lambe in 1764 and N. Bland in 1850.

------

THE THREE INDIAN TRADITIONS
In this, the first Indian tradition referred to the time of Alexander the
Great, it is related in the Shahnama that a very powerful King of India
named Kaid, satiated with war, and having no enemies without, or rebellious
subjects within his kingdom, thus addressed his minister Sassa.

"Day and night my mind is harassed with the thoughts of war and
strife; when in the hours of the night sleep overpowers me, I dream of
nothing but battlefields and conquests, and in the morning, when I
awake, I still think over my imaginary combats and victories. Now you
are well aware that I have no longer one single enemy or rebel in my
whole dominions with whom to contend. It is utterly repugnant to justice
and common sense, to go to war without any cause. If I were to do so God
would be displeased with me, and a severe retribution for my evil
deeds would soon overtake me, even in this world, for is it not
said that a kingdom governed by falsehood and oppression is void
of stability, and it will soon pass away.

Tell me, then, O Sassa, for great is thy wisdom, what am I to
do in order to regain my peace of mind, and obtain relief from
my present state of weariness and disgust?"
Sassa hereupon bethought himself of a rare game, the invention of an
ancient Grecian sage, by name Hermes, which had recently been introduced
into India by Alexander and his soldiers, who used to play it at times
of leisure.

Sassa procured and modified the game and board from 56 pieces and 112
squares to 32 pieces and 64 squares, and explained it to the king, who
practised it with both satisfaction and delight, Sassa's stipulation
of a reward of a grain of corn doubled again and again 64 times, which
was at first deemed ridiculous, was found to amount to
18,446,744,073,709,551,615 rating the barley corn at two shillings
the bushel, the value required from the Indian king by the philosopher
was 3,385,966,239,667 pounds and 12s an unexpected and amazing sum.

The second version is of another highly ambitious and successful king
of Hind, name Fur, who died and left a young son, inexperienced in war
and in danger of losing his possessions. The wise men consulted together,
and Sassa, the son of Dahir, brought the chess board and men to the Prince,
saying, "Here you have an exact image of war, which is conducted on
principles similar to those which regulate this wonderful game. The same
caution in attack and coolness in defence which you have to exercise
here, you will have to put in practice in the battlefield.

The Prince with eagerness availed himself of Sassa's instructions until
he made himself fully acquainted with the principles of the game. He then
assembled his army and went forth in full confidence to encounter his
enemies, whom he defeated at all points. He then returned home in
triumph, and ever after he cherished his love for the game of chess
to a knowledge of which he considered himself indebted for the
preservation of his honour, his kingdom and his life."

The third account relates--"After Belugi, reigned Giumhur who had
this royal seat in the City of Sandali, in the province of Cachemir.

When he died, his brother, called May, was chosen King, who had two
sons, Ghav and Talachand.
said the former captain, with
authority, "Tartarin, you must go!" and he stood, upright and rigid in
the doorway, the very embodiment of duty.

All that was implied in that "Tartarin you must go" Tartarin understood.
Very pale, he rose to his feet and cast a tender look round his
pleasant study, so snug, so warm, so well lit, and at the the large,
so comfortable armchair, at his books, his carpet and at the big white
blinds of his window, beyond which swayed the slender stems of the
little garden. Then advancing to the the brave Commandant, he took his
hand, shook it vigorously and in a voice close to tears said stoically,
"I shall go, Bravida." And he did go as he had said he would. Though not
before he had gathered the necessary equipment.

First, he ordered from Blompard two large cases lined with copper and
with a large plaque inscribed TARTARIN DE TARASCON. FIREARMS. The
lining and the engraving took a long time. He ordered from M. Tastevin
a magnificent log-book in which to write his journal. Then he sent to
Marseille for a whole cargo of preserved food, for pemmican tablets
to make soup, for a bivouac tent of the latest design, which could be
erected or struck in a few minutes, a pair of sea-boots, two umbrellas,
a waterproof and a pair of dark glasses to protect his eyes. Finally,
Bezuquet the chemist made up a medicine chest full of sticking plaster,
pills and lotions. All these preparations were made in the hope that
by these and other delicate attentions he could appease the fury of
Tartarin-Sancho, which, since the departure had been decided, had raged
unabated by day and by night.


Chapter 10.

At last the great day arrived. From first light the whole of Terascon
was afoot, blocking the Avignon road and the approaches to the little
house of the baobab. There were people at windows, on roofs, up trees.
Bargees from the Rhône, stevedores, boot-blacks, clerks, weavers,
the club members, in fact the whole town. Then there were people from
Beaucaire who had come across the bridge, market-gardeners from
the suburbs, carts with big hoods, vignerons mounted on fine mules
ornamented with ribbons, tassels, bows and bells, and even here and
there some pretty girls from Arles, with blue kerchiefs round their
heads, riding on the crupper behind their sweethearts on the small
iron-grey horses of the Camargue. All this crowd pushed and jostled
before Tartarin's gate, the gate of this fine M. Tartarin who was going
to kill lions in the country of the "Teurs". (In Tarascon: Africa,
Greece, Turkey and Mesopotamia formed a vast, vague almost mythical
country which was called the Teurs... that is the Turks). Throughout
this mob the hat shooters came and went, proud of the triumph of their
leader, and leaving in their wake, as it were, little trails of glory.

In front of the house of the baobab there were two large handcarts. From
time to time the gate was opened and one could see men walking busily
about in the garden. They carried out trunks, cases and carpet-bags
which they piled onto the carts. On the arrival of each new package the
crowd stirred and a description of the article was shouted out. "That's
his tent! There's the preserved foods! The medicine chest! The arms
chest!" While the hat shooters gave a running commentary.

Suddenly, at about ten o'clock, there was a great movement in the crowd.
The garden gate swung back violently on its hinges.... "It's him!....
Its him!" they cried.

It was indeed him. When he appeared on the threshold, two cries
of amazement rose from the crowd:--"He's a Teur!.... He's wearing
sun-glasses!".... Tartarin, it is true, had believed that as he was going
to Algeria he should adopt Algerian costume. Large baggy pantaloons of
white cloth, a small tight jacket with metal buttons, a red sash wound
round his stomach and on his head a gigantic "Chechia" (a red floppy
bonnet) with an immensely long blue tassel dangling from its crown.
Added to this, he carried two rifles, one on each shoulder, a hunting
knife stuck into the sash round his middle, a cartridge-bag slung on
one side and a revolver in a leather holster on the other. That was
it. Ah!... forgive me... I forgot the sun-glasses, a huge pair of blue
sun-glasses which were just the very thing to correct any suggestion of
extravagance in his turnout.

"Vive Tartarin!... Vive Tartarin!" Yelled the people. The great man
smiled but did not wave, partly because of the rifles, which were giving
him some trouble and partly because he had learned what little value one
can place on popular favour. Perhaps even, in the depths of his soul, he
cursed these terrible compatriots who were forcing him to leave, to quit
his pretty little house with its green shutters and white walls, but if
so he did not show it. Calm and proud, though a little pale, he marched
down the pathway, inspected his handcarts and seeing that all was in
order set off jauntily on the road to the station, without looking back
even once at the house of the baobab.

On his arrival at the station he was greeted by the station-master,
a former soldier, who shook him warmly by the hand several times. The
Paris-Marseille express had not yet arrived, so Tartarin and his general
staff went into the waiting-room. To keep back the following crowd the
station-master closed the barriers.

For fifteen minutes Tartarin paced back and forward, surrounded by the
hat shooters. He spoke to them of his coming expedition, promising to
send them skins, and entering their orders in his note-book as if they
were a list of groceries. As tranquil as was Socrates at the moment
when he drank the hemlock, the bold Tartarin had a word for everyone.
He spoke simply and affably, as if before departing he wished to leave
behind a legacy of charm, happy memories and regrets. To hear their
chief speak thus brought tears to the eyes of the hat shooters, and to
some, such as the president Ladevèze and the chemist Bezuquet, even a
twinge of remorse. Some of the station staff were dabbing their eyes in
corners, while outside the crowd peered through the railings and shouted
"Vive Tartarin!"

Then a bell rang. There was a rumbling noise of wheels. A piercing
whistle split the heavens... All aboard!... All aboard!... Goodbye
Tartarin!... Goodbye Tartarin!. "Goodbye everyone" murmured the great
man, and on the cheeks of the brave Commandant Bravida he planted a
farewell salute to his beloved Tarascon. Then he hurried along the
platform and got into a carriage full of Parisian ladies, who almost
died of fright at the appearance of this strange man with his revolver
and rifles.


Chapter 11.

On the first day of December 186-, in the clear bright winter sunshine
of Provence, the startled inhabitants of Marseille witnessed the arrival
of a Teur. Never had they seen one like this before, though God knows
there is no shortage of Teurs in Marseille. The Teur, need I tell you,
was none other than Tartarin de Tarascon, who was proceeding down the
quay followed by his case of arms, his medicine chest and his preserved
foods, in search of the embarkation point of the Compagnie Touache and
the ferry-boat "Le Zouave" which was to carry him away.

His ears still ringing with the cheers of Tarascon and bemused by the
brightness of the sky and the smell of the sea, Tartarin marched along,
his rifles slung on his shoulders, gazing around in wonder at this
marvellous port of Marseille, which he was seeing for the first time and
which quite dazzled him. He almost felt that he was dreaming and that
like Sinbad he was wandering in one of the fabulous cities of the
Thousand and one Nights.

As far as the eye could see, there stretched a jumble of masts and
yards, criss-crossing in all directions. The flags of a multitude of
nations fluttering in the wind. The ships level with the quay, their
bowsprits projecting over the edge like a row of bayonets, and below
them the carved and painted wooden figureheads of nymphs, goddesses
and saintly virgins from which the ships took their names. From time to
time, between the hulls one could see a patch of sea, like a great sheet
of cloth spattered with oil, while in the entanglement of yardarms a
host of seagulls made pretty splashes of white against the blue sky.
On the quay, amid the streams which trickled from the soapworks, thick,
green, streaked with black, full of oil and soda, there was a whole
population of customs officers, shipping agents, and stevedores with
trollies drawn by little Corsican ponies. There were shops selling
strange sweetmeats. Smoke enshrouded huts where seamen were cooking.
There were merchants selling monkeys, parrots, rope, sailcloth and
fantastic collections of bric-a-brac where, heaped up pell-mell, were
old culverins, great gilded lanterns, old blocks and tackle, old rusting
anchors, old rigging, old megaphones, old telescopes, dating from the
time of Jean Bart.

There were women selling shellfish, crouched bawling beside their wares,
sailors passing, some with pots of tar, some with steaming pots of stew,
others with baskets full of squid which they were taking to wash in the
fresh water of the fountains. Everywhere prodigious heaps of merchandise
of every kind. Silks, minerals, baulks of timber, ingots of lead,
carobs, rape-seed, liquorice, sugar cane, great piles of dutch cheeses.
East and west hugger-mugger.

Here is the grain berth. Stevedores empty the sacks onto the quay from
a scaffold, the grain pours down in a golden torrent raising a cloud of
pale dust, and is loaded by men wearing red fezes into carts, which
set off followed by a regiment of women and children with brushes and
buckets for gleaning.

There is the careening basin. The huge vessels lie over on one side and
are flamed with fires of brushwood to rid them of seaweed, while their
yardarms soak in the water. There is a smell of pitch and the deafening
hammering of shipwrights lining the hulls with sheets of copper.

Sometimes, between the masts, a gap opened and Tartarin could see the
harbour mouth and the movement of ships. An English frigate leaving for
Malta, spruce and scrubbed, with officers in yellow gloves, or a big
Marseilles brig, casting off amid shouting and cursing, with, in the
bows, a fat captain in an overcoat and a top hat, supervising the
manoeuvre in broad provencal. There were ships outward bound, running
before the wind with all sails set, there were others, far out at sea,
beating their way in and seeming in the sunshine to be floating on air.

Then, all the time the most fearsome racket. The rumbling of cart
wheels, the cries of the sailors, oaths, songs, the sirens of
steam-boats, the drums and bugles of Fort St. Jean and Fort St. Nicolas,
the bells of nearby churches and, up above, the mistral, which took all
of these sounds, rolled them together, shook them up and mingled
them with its own voice to make mad, wild, heroic music, like a great
fanfare, urging one to set sail for distant lands, to spread one's wings
and go. It was to the sound of this fine fanfare that Tartarin embarked
for the country of lions.


Chapter 12.

I wish that I was a painter, a really good painter, so that I could
present to you a picture of the different positions adopted by
Tartarin's chechia during the three days of the passage from France to
Algeria.

I would show it to you first at the departure, proud and stately as it
was then, crowning that noble Tarascon head. I would show it next when,
having left the harbour, the Zouave began to lift on the swell. I would
show it fluttering and astonished, as if feeling the first premonitions
of distress.

Then, in the gulf of Lion, when the Zouave was further offshore and
the sea a little rougher, I would present it at grips with the storm,
clutching, bewildered, at the head of our hero, its long blue woollen
tassel streaming in the spume and gusting wind.

The fourth position. Six in the evening. Off the coast of Corsica. The
wretched chechia is leaning over the rail and sadly contemplating the
depths of the ocean.

Fifth and last position. Down in a narrow cabin, in a little bed which
has the appearance of a drawer in a commode, something formless and
desolate rolls about, moaning, on the pillow. It is the chechia, the
heroic chechia, now reduced to the vulgar status of a night-cap, and
jammed down to the ears of a pallid and convulsing invalid.

Ah! If the townsfolk of Tarascon could have seen the great Tartarin,
lying in his commode drawer, in the pale, dismal light which filtered
through the porthole, amongst the stale smell of cooking and wet wood,
the depressing odour of the ferry boat. If they had heard him groan
at every turn of the propeller, ask for tea every five minutes, and
complain to the steward in the weak voice of a child, would they have
regretted having forced him to leave? On my word, the poor Tuer deserved
pity. Overcome by sea-sickness, he had not the will even to loosen
his sash or rid himself of his weapons. The hunting knife with the big
handle dug into his ribs. His revolver bruised his leg, and the final
straw was the nagging of Tartarin-Sancho, who never ceased whining and
carping:--"Imbecile! Va! I warned you didn't I?.... But you had to go to
Africa!.... Well now you're on your way, how do you like it?"

What was every bit as cruel was that, shut in his cabin, between his
groans he could hear the other passengers in the saloon, laughing,
eating, singing, playing cards. The society in the Zouave was as
cheerful as it was diverse. There were some officers on their way to
rejoin their units, a bevy of tarts from Marseille, a rich Mahommedan
merchant, returning from Mecca, some strolling players, a Montenegran
prince, a great joker this, who did impersonations.... Not one of these
people was sea-sick and they spent the time drinking champagne with the
captain of the Zouave, a fat "Bon viveur" from Marseille, who had an
establishment there and another in Algiers, and who rejoiced in the name
of Barbassou. Tartarin hated all these people. Their gaity redoubled his
misery.

At last, in the afternoon of the third day, there was some unusual
activity on board the ship, which roused our hero from his torpor. The
bell in the bows rang out... the heavy boots of the sailors could be
heard running on the deck... "Engine ahead!... engine astern!." Shouted
the hoarse voice of Captain Barbassou. Then "Stop engine!"

The engine stopped, there was a little tremor and then nothing. The
ferry lay rocking gently from side to side, like a balloon in the air.
This strange silence horrified Tartarin. "My God! We are sinking!" He
cried in a voice of terror, and recovering his strength as if by magic,
he rushed up onto the deck.


Chapter 13.

The Zouave was not sinking. She had just dropped her anchor in a fine
anchorage of deep, dark water. Opposite, on the hillside, was Algiers,
its little matt-white houses running down to the sea, huddled one
against the other, like a pile of white washing laid out on a river
bank. Up above a great sky of satin blue... but oh!... So blue!

Tartarin, somewhat recovered from his fright, gazed at the landscape,
while listening respectfully to the Montenegrin prince, who standing
beside him, pointed out the different quarters of the town. The Casbah,
the upper town, the Rue Bab-Azoum. Very well educated this prince of
Montenegro. What is more he knew Algiers well and spoke Arabic. Tartarin
had decided to cultivate his acquaintance when suddenly, along the rail
on which they were leaning, he saw a row of big black hands grasping it
from below. Almost immediately a curly black head appeared in front of
him and before he could open his mouth the deck was invaded from all
side by a swarm of pirates; black, yellow, half naked, hideous and
terrible. Tartarin knew at once that it was "Them" The fearsome "Them"
who he had so often expected at night in the streets of Tarascon. Now
they had arrived.

At first surprise glued him to the spot, but when he saw the pirates
hurl themselves on the baggage, tear off the tarpaulin covers and begin
to pillage the ship, our hero came to life. Drawing his hunting knife
and shouting "Aux armes!... Aux armes!" To his fellow passengers, he
prepared to lead an assault on the raiders. "Ques aco?... What's the
matter with you?" Said Captain Barbassou as he came off the bridge.
"Ah!... There you are Captain.... Quick! Quick! Arm your men!" "Hé!... Do
what? Why for God's sake?" "But don't you see?" "See what?" "There,
in front of you... the pirates!" Captain Barbassou regarded him with
astonishment..... At that moment a huge monster of a black man ran past
carrying the medicine chest. "Wretch! Wait till I catch you!" Yelled
Tartarin, starting forward with his knife held aloft. Barbassou caught
him and held him by his sash. "Calm down for Chrissake." He said,
"These are not pirates, there have been no pirates for ages, these are
stevedores." "Stevedores?" "Hé! Yes, stevedores who have come to collect
the baggage and take it ashore. Put away your cutlass, give me your
ticket and follow that negro, an excellent fellow, who will take you
ashore and even to your hotel if you wish."

Somewhat confused Tartarin surrendered his ticket and following the
negro he went down the gangplank into a large boat which was bobbing
alongside the ferry. All his baggage was there, his trunks, cases of
weapons and preserved food, as they took up all the room in the boat,
there was no need to wait for other passengers. The negro climbed onto
the baggage and squatted there with his arms wrapped round his knees.
Another negro took the oars... the two of them regarded Tartarin, laughing
and showing their white teeth.

Standing in the stern, wearing his fiercest expression, Tartarin
nervously fingered the handle of his hunting knife, for in spite of what
Barbassou had told him, he was only half reassured about the intentions
of these ebony-skinned stevedores, who looked so different from honest
longshoremen of Tarascon.

Three minutes later the boat reached land and Tartarin set foot on the
little Barbary quay, where three hundred years earlier a galley-slave
named Michael Cervantes, under the whip of an Algerian galley-master,
had begun to plan the wonderful story of Don Quixote.


Chapter 14.

If by any chance the ghost of Micheal Cervantes was abroad on that bit
of the Barbary coast, it must have been delighted at the arrival of this
splendid specimen of a Frenchman from the Midi, in whom were combined
the two heroes of his book, Don Quixote and Sancho Panza.

It was a warm day. On the quay, bathed in sunshine, were five or
six customs officers, some settlers awaiting news from France, some
squatting Moors, smoking their long pipes, some Maltese fishermen,
hauling in a large net, in the meshes of which thousands of sardines
glittered like pieces of silver; but scarcely had Tartarin set
foot there when the quay sprang into life and changed entirely its
appearance.

A band of savages, more hideous even than the pirates of the boat,
seemed to rise from the very cobble-stones to hurl themselves on the
newcomer. Huge Arabs, naked beneath their long woolen garments, little
Moors dressed in rags, Negroes, Tunisians, hotel waiters in white
aprons, pushing and shouting, plucking at his clothes, fighting over his
luggage; one grabbing his preserves another his medicine chest and, in a
screeching babel of noise, throwing at his head the improbable names
of hotels.... Deafened by this tumult, Tartarin ran hither and
thither,struggling, fuming, and cursing after his baggage, and not
knowing how to communicate with these barbarians, harangued them in
French, Provencal and even what he could remember of Latin. It was a
wasted effort, no one was listening.... Happily, however, a little man
dressed in a tunic with a yellow collar and armed with a long cane
arrived on the scene and dispersed the rabble with blows from his stick.
He was an Algerian policeman. Very politely he arranged for Tartarin to
go to the Hotel de l'Europe, and confided him to the care of some locals
who led him away with all his baggage loaded on several barrows.

As he took his first steps in Algiers, Tartarin looked about him
wide-eyed. He had imagined beforehand a fairylike Arabian city,
something between Constantinople and Zanzibar... but here he was back
in Tarascon. Some cafés some restaurants, wide streets, houses of four
stories, a small tarmac square where a military band played Offenbach
polkas, men seated on chairs, drinking beer and nibbling snacks, a few
ladies, a sprinkling of tarts and soldiers, more soldiers, everywhere
soldiers... and not a single "Teur" in sight except for him... so he found
walking across the square a bit embarrassing. Everyone stared.... The
military band stopped playing and the Offenbach polka came to a halt
with one foot in the air.

With his two rifles on his shoulders, his revolver by his side,
unflinching and stately he passed through the throng, but on reaching
the hotel his strength deserted him. The departure from Tarascon. The
harbour at Marseille. The crossing. The Montenegrin prince. The pirates,
all whirled in confusion round his brain. He had to be taken up to his
room, disarmed and undressed... there was even talk of sending for a
doctor, but hardly had his head touched the pillow than he began to
snore so loudly and vigorously that the hotel manager decided that
medical assistance was not required, and everyone discreetly withdrew.


Chapter 15.

The bell of the government clock was sounding three when Tartarin awoke.
He had slept all evening, all night, all morning and even a good part of
the afternoon. It has, of course, to be admitted that over the preceding
three days the chechia had had a pretty rough time.

His first thought on waking was "Here I am, in lion country!" and it
must be confessed that this notion that he was surrounded by lions
and was about to go in pursuit of them produced a marked chill, and he
buried himself safely under the bedclothes.

Soon, however, the gaiety of the scene outside, the sky so blue, the
bright sunshine which flooded into his room through the large window
which opened towards the sea, and a good meal which he had served in
bed, washed down by a carafe of wine, quickly restored his courage. "To
the lions! To the lions!" He cried, and throwing off the bed clothes he
dressed himself hurriedly.

His plan of action was this. Leave town and go well out into the desert.
Wait until nightfall. Lie in hiding, and at the first lion that comes
along... Pan! Pan!.... Return in the morning. Lunch at hotel. Receive the
congratulations of the Algerians and hire a cart to go and collect the
kill.

He armed himself hastily, strapped onto his back the bivouac tent, the
pole of which stuck up above his head, and then, held rigid by this
contraption, he went down to the street. He turned sharply to the right
and walked to the end of the shopping arcade of Bab-Azoum, where a
series of Algerian store-keepers watched him pass, concealed in corners
of their dark boutiques like spiders. He went through the Place du
théatre, through the suburbs and eventually reached the dusty main road
to Mustapha.

Here was a fantastic confusion of traffic. There were coaches, cabs,
curricles, military supply wagons, great carts of hay drawn by oxen,
some squadrons of Chasseurs d'Afrique, troops of microscopic little
donkeys, negresses selling galettes, loads of emigrants from Alsasce,
some Spahis in red cloaks. All passing in a great cloud of dust, with
cries, songs and trumpet calls, between two rows of miserable shacks,
where could be seen prostitutes applying their make-up at their doors,
tap-rooms full of soldiers and the stalls of butchers and slaughtermen.
The tales I have been told about this place are quite untrue, thought
Tartarin, there are fewer "Teurs" here than there are in Marseille.

Suddenly he saw striding past him, long-legged and proud as a turkey
cock, a magnificent camel. The sight quickened his pulse; where there
were camels lions could not be far away, and indeed within five minutes
he saw coming towards him with guns on their shoulders, a whole company
of lion hunters with their dogs.

A cowardly lot, thought Tartarin, as he came alongside them... hunting
lions in a group and with dogs... for it had never occurred to him that
In Algeria one could hunt anything but lions. However these hunters
looked like comfortably retired businessmen, and Tartarin, curious about
this way of hunting lions with dogs and game-bags, took it on himself to
address one of them.

"Et autrement, my friend, a good day?"

"Not bad" Replied the other, looking with some surprise at the heavy
armament of our Tarascon warrior.

"You have killed some of them?"

"Yes... a few... as you can see." And the Algerian pointed to his
game-bag, bulging with rabbits and woodcock.

"How is that?... you put them in your game-bag?"

"Where would you like me to put them?"

"But then they... they must be very small!"

"Some big, some small." Said the hunter, and as he was in a hurry to
catch up with his companions and go home, he made off at high speed.
Tartarin stood, stupefied, in the middle of the road. Then after a
moment of thought "Bah!" He said to himself, "These people are trying to
have me on, they haven't shot anything." And he continued on his way.

Already the houses were becoming more scattered, the passers-by less
frequent. Night was falling. Objects becoming less distinct.... He
marched on for another half an hour, and then he stopped. It was now
completely dark, a moonless night spangled with stars. There was no one
on the road, but in spite of that Tartarin reckoned that lions were
not like coaches and would not stick to the highway. He set off across
country. At every step there were ditches, thorns and bushes. No matter,
he walked on until at last he reached a spot he thought suited to his
purpose. A likely place for lions.


Chapter 16.

He was in a vast, wild desert, bristling with bizarre plants. African
plants, which have the appearance of savage animals. In the faint light
from the stars their shadows spread over the ground in all directions.
On the right was the confused, looming mass of a mountain, the Atlas
perhaps, to the left could be heard the dull surge of the invisible sea.
An ideal spot to tempt wild animals!

Placing one rifle on the ground before him and taking the other in his
hands, Tartarin settled down and waited... he waited for an hour... two
hours.... Then he remembered that in his books the famous lion hunters
always used a kid as bait, which they tethered at some distance in front
of them and made to bleat by pulling on a string attached to its leg.
Lacking a kid, he had the idea of trying an imitation and began to bleat
in a goat-like manner, "Mé!... Mé!...." At first very quietly, because, in
the depths of his heart he was a little afraid that the lion might
hear him... then seeing that nothing happened he bleated more loudly,
"Mé!... Mé!... Mé!...." And then louder still, "MÉ!... MÉ!... MÉ!..."

Suddenly, a few paces in front of him, something black and gigantic
materialised. He shut up... the thing crouched, sniffed the ground,
leapt up, turned and ran off at a gallop... then it came back and stopped
short. It was a lion! There could be no doubt. Now one could see quite
clearly the four short legs, the formidable forequarters and two
huge eyes gleaming in the darkness.... Aim!... Fire!...
Pan!... Pan!.... Tartarin backed away, drawing his hunting knife

Following Tartarin's shot there was a terrible outcry, "I've got him!"
Cried the good Tarasconais and prepared himself to receive a possible
attack, but the creature had had enough and it fled at top speed,
bellowing.... He, however, did not budge: he was waiting for the
female... as happened in all his books. Unfortunately the female failed
to turn up, and after two or three hours of waiting Tartarin became
tired. The ground was damp, the night was growing cool, there was a nip
in the breeze from the sea... "Perhaps I should have a nap while I wait
for daylight" he said to himself, and to provide some shelter he had
recourse to the bivouac tent. A difficulty now arose, the bivouac tent
was of such an ingenious design that he was quite unable to erect it. He
struggled and sweated for a long time, but there was no way in which he
could get the thing up, so at last he threw it on the ground and lay on
top of it, cursing it in Provencal.

Ta!... Ta!... Ta!... Tarata! "Ques aco?" said Tartarin, waking up with a
start. It was the trumpets of the Chasseurs d'Afrique sounding reveille
in the barracks at Mustapha. The lion killer rubbed his eyes in
amazement. He who had believed that he was in the middle of a
desert... do you know where he was?... In a field full of artichokes,
between a cauliflower and a swede... his Sahara was a vegetable patch.

Nearby, on the pretty green coast of upper Mustapha, white Algerian
villas gleamed in the dawn light, one might have been among the suburban
houses in the outskirts of Marseille. The bourgeois appearance of the
sleeping countryside greatly astonished Tartarin and put him in a bad
humour. "These people are crazy", he said to himself, "To plant their
artichokes in an area infested by lions. For I was not dreaming, there
are lions here and there is the proof".

The proof was a trail of blood which the fleeing beast had left behind
it. Following this blood-spoor, with watchful eye and revolver in hand,
the valiant Tarasconais went from artichoke to artichoke until he arrived
at a small field of oats.... In a patch of flattened grain was a pool
of blood and in the middle of the pool, lying on its side with a large
wound to its head, was... what?... a lion?... No Parbleu!... A donkey!
One of the tiny donkeys so common in Algeria, which there are called
"Bourriquots".


Chapter 17.

Tartarin's first reaction at the sight of his unfortunate victim was
one of annoyance. There is after all a considerable difference between
a lion and a bourriquot. This was quickly replaced by a feeling of pity.
The poor bourriqout was so pretty, so gentle, its warm flanks rising and
falling as it breathed. On the walls of her unique and beautiful temple
at Dayr el Baharee, we see a naval expedition sent to explore the
unknown land of Punt, the Somali country on the East coast of Africa
near Cape Guardafui 600 years before the fleets of Solomon, and
returning laden with foreign woods, rare trees, gums, perfumes and
strange beasts. Here we have 1. Queen Hatasu's throne, made of wood
foreign to Egypt, the legs most elegantly carved in imitation of
the legs of an animal, covered with gold down to the hoof, finishing
with a silver band.

Each leg has carved in relief two Uroei, the sacred cobra serpent of Egypt,
symbolic of a goddess.
These are plated with gold. Each arm is ornamented with a serpent curving
gracefully along from head to tail, the scales admirably imitated by
hundreds of inlaid silver rings. The only remaining rail is plated
with silver. The gold and silver are of the purest quality.

2. A fragment of the Cartouche or oval bearing the royal name, and once
attached to the Throne; the hieroglyphics are very elegantly carved in
relief, with a scroll pattern round the edge, and around one margin,
and a palm frond pattern around the other. About one fourth of the
oval remains, by means of which our distinguished Egyptologist,
Miss Amelia B. Edwards, L.L.D., has been able to complete the
name and identify the throne. On one side is the great Queen's throne
name, Ru-ma-ka.

On the other the family name, Amen Knum Hat Shepsu, commonly read Hatasu.
With all its imperfections it is unique, being the only throne which has
ever been disinterred in Egypt.

3. A female face boldy, but exquisitely carved in dark wood, from the
lid of a coffin, the effigy strongly resembling the face of the sitting
statue of Hatasu in the Berlin Museum: the eyes and double crown are
lost.

4. The Signet: This is a Scarabaeus, in turquoise bearing the Cartouche
of Queen Hatasu, once worn as a ring.

5. The Draught Box and Draughtmen: The box is of dark wood, divided on its
upper side by strips of ivory into 30 squares, on its under side into
20 squares, 12 being at one end and 8 down the centre; some of these
contained hieroglyphics inlaid, three of which still remain, also a
drawer for holding the draughts.
These draughts consist of about 20 pieces, carved with most exquisite art
and finish in the form of lions' heads--the hieroglyphic sign for
"Hat" in Hatasu.

Also two little standing figures of Egyptian men like pages or attendants,
perfect, and admirable specimens of the delicate Egyptian art. These
may have been markers, or perhaps the principle pieces. Two sides of
another draught box, of blue porcelain and ivory, with which are
two conical draughts of blue porcelain and ivory and three other
ivory pieces.

6.

Also parts of two porcelain rings and porcelain rods, probably for
some unknown game.

7.

With the above were found a kind of salvo or perfume spoon in green
slate, and a second in alabaster.

The coffin of Thotmes I and the bodies of Thotmes II and III, were
found at Dayr el Baharee in 1881, that of their sister, Queen Hatasu,
had disappeared but her cabinet was there, and is now in the Boulack
Museum, and I have no doubt whatever, says Miss Edwards, "that this
throne and these other relics are from that tomb."

HIEROGLYPHICS OF ANCIENT EGYPT
NOTE. The name which occurs most frequently on the finest monuments of
Egyptian art is Ramses, which immediately recalls the names of Rhamses,
Ramesses, or Ramestes, and Raamses, (Exod. i., 11) occuring in Hebrew,
Greek and Roman writers, and when we find this name with all its
adjuncts, distinguishing some of the finest remains of antiquity
from the extremity of Nubia to the shores of the Mediterranean, we
are immediately led to ask whether this must not have been the title
of Sesostris.

The Flaminian obelisk at Rome, its copy, the Salustian, the Mahutean,
and Medicean, in the same place; those at El-Ocsor, the ancient Thebes,
and a bilingual inscription at Nahr-el-Kelb, in Syria, all bear this
legend. The power and dominions of this Prince, must therefore have
been of no ordinary magnitude; and such was in fact that of the
Rhamses, whom the priests at Thebes described to Germanicus as the greatest
conqueror who ever lived (Tacit. Annal. 11 p. 78 ed, Elzevir, 1649).
But none of the ancient historians give this name to Sesostris.

He is however called Sethos by Manetho who tells us (Joseph, contra,
Apion, 1 p. 1053) that he was also called Rhamesses, from his grandfather
Rhampses, and thus affords a clue by which all doubt is removed; and
as Sethos, Sesostris and Sessosis, are virtually the same name, and
confessedly belong to the same person, so was the Rhamses of Tacitus
and the REMSS of these hieroglyphical inscriptions, no other than that
mighty conqueror. His grandfather is called Rhameses Meiammun by Manetho
(15th King of the 18th dynasty) and that name appears in the great
palace of Medinet Abu and some other buildings in the ruins of
Thebes, but the one is always named Ramses Ammon-mei and has
distinctive titles different from those of the other.

This is alone sufficient to identify them; for as the Ptolemies were
distinguished by their surnames Philadelphus, Epiphanes, Soter &c.,
so were the ancient Egyptian Kings by their peculiar titles, as
is manifest from the double scrolls by which their names are usually
expressed.

>From the tomb of Ramses Mei-ammun, in the Biban-el-muluk, Mr. Belzoni
brought the cover of his sarcophagus of red granite, ornamented
with a recumbent figure of the deceased King in the character of Osiris.
It is now preserved in the Fitz-William Museum at Cambridge, to
which it was presented by that justly regretted traveller.

CORRECTION. The 16th King of the 18th dynasty he must have been if
they were seventeen, for Sesostris in the tables is 1st King of the
19th dynasty.

------
It is not unreasonable to infer that Egbert and even Offa, at about
the end of the Eighth century may have known chess, which had become
popular during their times, in Arabia, Greece, Spain and among the
Franks and Aquitaines, these Saxon Kings were of an enquiring turn
of mind, and not indifferent to what was passing on in other
countries.

Two hundred and fifty years had elapsed since chess had reached
Persia, and contemporary monarchs were not altogether strange to one
another's tastes and pursuits.

Justinian and Chosroes held communication on historical and social
matters, Harun of Bagdad, and the Princess Irene of Constantinople, as
well as her predecessor, made special presents to Pepin and Charlemagne,
including chess equipages which probably were considered suitable and
fitting compliments at the time, and they seem to have been appreciated
and highly valued, especially by Charlemagne, who evidently fancied
himself at chess, and we find was somewhat demonstrative in his
challenges.

Charlemagne must have known Egbert, who took refuge at his court for a
time, before he became King of England, from the usurper Brithric. The
biography of the celebrated scholar Alcuin, says that Charlemagne
met him in Parma; but Hume is probably right in his statement that he
was sent by Offa as the most proper person to meet the Emperor's views
in aiding him to confute certain alleged heresies. This scholar
was much esteemed and venerated by Charlemagne, and his family, and from
his long domestication in his household, and familiarity with his
habits and pursuits, could scarcely be ignorant of Charlemagne's
enthusiasm for chess, and such a popular exponent of learning at
the time as Alcuin was, might well have been known and favourably
regarded by such a patron and enquirer as the famous Harun Ar Rashid
of Bagdad, who must have corresponded with Charlemagne and sent his
presents at the very time that Alcuin was residing with the Emperor.

NOTE.

Offa died 794, Alcuin 804, Harun 809, Charlemagne 814, the great Al
Mamun commenced to reign in 813, and he is undoubtedly reputed to have
been the most mild, humane and enlightened of all the Khalifs. He
was, however warlike also and expressed his surprise that he could
not manage the mimic armies of the chess board like large forces on
the field of battle.

------
Canute's great partiality for chess seems well attested. The three
successive royal assassinations recorded in Scandinavian history
associated with chess incidents, need not alone be relied on and form not
the most pleasing reading in connection with our now innocent, and
harmless chess; neither perhaps is it a recommendation or evidence of
the calmness, meditative tranquility and imperturbability so generally
supposed to be incidental to the game, to repeat the authenticated statement
that the son of Okbar was killed by King Pepin's son through the jealousy
and irritation of the latter at being constantly beaten at chess,
or that William the Conqueror in early days had to beat a precipitate
retreat from France through assaulting the King's son over the
chess board, and a somewhat similar misadventure in early days to
Henry I, and John's unseemly fracas.

It is related that an English knight seized the bridle of Philip Le
Gros in battle, crying out, the king is taken, but was struck down by
that monarch who observed, "Ne fais tu pas que aux echecs on ne prend
pas le roi."
Among English monarchs, indeed, there are several which may be added
to the list presented by Philidor which comprises only Elizabeth; James
I and William III, of those omitted Canute, the first William, and perhaps
Edwards I and IV, are the most notable before the time of the unfortunate
Charles I, whose likeness is in one of the chess books, and whose chess
men exhibited to the Society of Antiquaries were preserved in the
possession of Lord Barrington. Items referring to chess are mentioned in
expense accounts of Henry VII and Henry VIII. In a closet in the old
royal palace of Greenwich, the last-named had a payre of chess men in a
case of black lether--(Warton). The celebrated Ras, at Chelicut, was
passionately fond of chess, provided he won, Charles the XII was
much devoted to the game.

In 1740 Frederick the Great writes: "Je suis comme le roi et echecs de
Charles XII qui marchait toujours."
------
CANUTE
Sir Frederick Madden states in p. 280: Snorr Sturleson relates an anecdote
of King Canute, which would prove that monarch to have been a great
lover of the game. About the year 1028, whilst engaged in his warfare
against the Kings of Norway and Sweden, Canute rode over to Roskild,
to visit Earl Ulfr, the husband of his sister. An entertainment was
prepared for their guest, but the King was out of spirits and did not
enjoy it. They attempted to restore his cheerfulness by conversation,
but without success.

At length, the Earl challenged the King to play at chess, which was
accepted, and, the chess table being brought, they sat down to their
game. After they had played awhile, the King made a false move, in
consequence of which Ulfr captured one of his opponent's Knights. But the
King would not allow it, and replacing his piece, bade the Earl
play differently.

On this, the Earl (who was of a hasty disposition) waxing angry,
overturned the chess board and left the room.

The King called after him, saying, Ulfr, thou coward, dost thou
thus flee? The Earl returned to the door, and said: You would have
taken a longer flight in the river Helga, had I not come to your assistance,
when the Swedes beat you like a dog--you did not then call me a
coward.

He then retired, and some days afterwards was murdered by the King's
orders. This anecdote is corroborated (so far as the chess is
concerned) by a passage in the anonymous history of the monastery
of Ramsey, composed probably about the time of Henry I, where we are
told, that Bishop Etheric coming one night at a late hour on urgent
business to King Canute, found the monarch and his courtiers amusing
themselves at the games of dice and chess.

In the year 1157 the Kingdom of Denmark was divided between three
Monarchs: Svend, Valdemar, and Canute the Fifth. This took place after
many years of contest, between Svend on the one hand, and Valdemar and
Canute on the other. Each King was to rule over a third of the realm,
and each swore before the altar to preserve the contract inviolate.

But it did not last long. Canute asked his brother monarchs to spend
a few days of festivity with him at Roskilde. Svend came with a
crowd of soldiers. One evening Valdemar sat at the chess board where
the battle waxed warm.
His adversary was a nobleman, and Canute sat by Valdemar's side watching
the game. All at once, Canute observing some suspicious consultations
between Svend and one of his Captains, and feeling a presentiment of
evil, threw his arms round Valdemar's neck and kissed him.

Why so merry, cousin? asked the latter without removing his eyes from
the chess board. You will soon see, replied Canute in an apprehensive
tone. Just then the armed soldiery of Svend rushed into the apartment,
slew Canute and severely wounded Valdemar.

The last named having strapped his mantle about his arm to serve for a
shield, extinguished the lights, and fought like a lion. He succeeded in
making his escape and is known in history as the powerful Valdemar the
Great.

A century later chess again makes its appearance upon the historic
stage of Denmark.

At that time, Eric Plovpenning or Ploughpenny as he was called, ruled
wisely and well over the fierce and war loving people of that country.
In the summer of 1250 he was on his way to defend the town of Rendsborg
against the attack of some German bands, when he received an
invitation from his brother Abel to visit him in Slesvig.

The unsuspecting and open hearted Eric accepted. After dinner, on
the 9th of August, the same day of his arrival, he retired to a little
pleasure house near the water to enjoy a quiet game of chess with a knight
whose name was Henrik Kerkwerder. As they were playing the
black-hearted Abel entered the room, marched up to the chess table,
accompanied by several of his followers, and began to overwhelm the
King with abuse.

At length, the unfortunate Eric was thrown into chains and was basely
murdered that very night.

The American Chess Monthly gives the following anecdote, but does
not state its source.

THE PRINCESS CHARLOTTE AND CHESS
Among the anecdotes related of the childhood of the Princess Charlotte,
the daughter of a rascally father, and of an unfortunate mother,
there is a story which we do not remember to have seen in any
periodical devoted to the game.

It is perfectly authentic, and runs thus:

"Being one evening present when a game of chess was playing. The sudden
and triumphant exclamation of checkmate was given. On her inquiring
its meaning, she was informed, it is when the King is enprise
by any particular piece, and cannot move without falling into
the hands of an enemy.

`That is indeed a bad situation for a King,' said the little patriotic
stateswoman, but it can never be the fate of the King of England, so
long as he conforms to the laws, for then he meet with protection from
his subjects."

------
We can find nothing in the form of evidence, as to whether either of our
four kings, the Georges, took any interest in chess, or played at it.
Some of our greatest men we hear, looked in occasionally at the
club in St. James St., to witness Philidor's performances. Chatham,
Fox, Pitt, Godolphin, Sunderland, Rockingham, Wedderburn, St. John,
Sir G. Elliott, and many others, most distinguished and celebrated
at the time, have been specially mentioned as visitors or members.
As only those who know or care for the game subscribe to chess
books, the three hundred principal names on Philidor's edition of 1777,
affords a significant proof of the extraordinary appreciation and support
of the game, throughout the period of his ascendancy, viz., from
1746 to 1795.

Twenty-six ladies of title grace that list, which contains a large
proportion of the nobility, cabinet ministers, men distinguished in
science, and at the bar, and on the bench, and several eminent
divines.

Prince Leopold's support of chess, and encouraging remarks concerning
it at Oxford, in Scotland and at the Birkbeck, had much to do with the
taste for the game which sprung up among the humbler working classes,
and which happily has been continuously though steadily progressing.

One of our most genial and reliable chess editors has recently
informed us, on very high authority, that even our Most Gracious
Majesty Queen Victoria, has at times shewn an appreciation of chess.

Three years after the commencement of her reign the first County
Chess Association, was formed in Yorkshire. There were at this time but
twelve chess clubs in this country. The year 1849 signalised the first Chess
Tournament found on record, it took place at Simpson's, and Mr. H. T.
Buckle writer and author, the best amateur at this time, came forth
first. This was two years before the first world's International Chess
Tournament of 1851, was held in London, of which the Prince Consort
was patron, since then thirty-four National Tournaments and forty-eight
country meetings, and twenty University matches between Oxford and
Cambridge have taken place.

It is now reasonably estimated that there are quite five hundred clubs,
and institutions where chess is practiced and cultivated, and near one
hundred and fifty chess columns, and both press notice and chess clubs
are continually on the increase.

------
THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
Simpson's renowned establishment was opened by Mr. Samuel Ries on its
present site 100 and 101 Strand in 1828.

It was soon found to afford the most admirable facilities for the quiet
and comfortable enjoyment of chess, and hence became greatly appreciated
and proportionately patronized, and has always been regarded by the
best and most impartial friends of chess with sentiments of extraordinary
partiality.

Its influence on the practice and development of chess has been of a
very remarkable character, and of the first and highest importance,
and notwithstanding the migration of some of its members on the occasions
of the formation of the ill-fated Westminster and West End Chess Clubs
in 1867 and 1875, and again on the institution of the present British
Chess Club in 1885, its popularity is maintained to this day.

The chess events, anecdotes, and reminiscences of Simpson's must ever form
a most interesting chapter in the English or National history of
chess for the Nineteenth century, and is intimately linked with
that of the whole chess world.

As the arena of the finest and most brilliant chess play Simpson's still
stands, and has ever done so, pre-eminently first, from the time of A.
McDonnell of Belfast, and L. de La Bourdonnais of Paris, and their
first appearance there in 1828 and 1829 to the present day, and it is
there (and there alone) that can still be witnessed in this country a
competition or tournament open to all comers conceived in the spirit
of pure enthusiasm only, and it is to Simpson's that lovers of the
game must still resort if they wish to see really fine contests
between the recognized greatest players.

It was here that H. T. Buckle, the writer and author in 1849 gained
leading honours in the first tournament ever held on British soil, or
so far as is known, on any soil. About this time it was that the school
of young players with some of whose games the public have become
familiarized and pleased in later years, begun to radiate, educate, and
progress. Bird as a boy, became a favourite opponent of Mr. Buckle, so
early as 1846.

Boden soon followed, and by the year 1851, both had, it was supposed,
reached about the force of Mr. Buckle, and were hailed with welcome as
British chess representatives of the highest class, and at this period
and for a quarter of a century afterwards no games were watched with
greater interest than those in the love contests between Boden and Bird,
and no names are more familiarly associated with Divan chess play. The
former has departed this life, but the latter still plays, having
within the past year or two, twice secured first prize in Simpson's
Tournaments, and first position in 1889 and third in 1890, though
his forte is rather for rapid and lively play, which he cultivates
now rather more than in his younger days, otherwise his style of
1848 and 1852 compared with 1873, 1889 and 1892 remains the same
in its characteristic features.

Bird's games with Anderssen in 1852 (his best performance), with those
against Morphy in 1858, Steinitz in 1866, and Wisker (British Champion)
in 1873, rank among the most notable encounters at Simpson's. Among
the most recent events of the greatest interest at Simpson's have been
the visit of Dr. Tarrasch, of Nuremberg, after his great International
victory at Manchester, the splendid performance of young Loman the
Dutch Champion in Simpson's Spring Tournament (following his grand City
of London successes and that in Holland).

The recent games of Blackburne and Bird, and Lasker and Bird have been
other events of popular chess interest.

To return to old times, (to boyhood days), it was during the years 1844
to 1850 that English ascendancy in chess first became universally
recognized.

As noticed in the History of Chess elsewhere the supremacy of chess
in past ages back to the Sixth century, when Persia (as well as
China received chess from India) has alternately rested with Arabia,
Spain, Italy and France, while the question of the hour now is
whether Germany or England is best entitled to claim possession of
the chess sceptre.

The famous series of contests in 1834 at the old Westminster Chess Club
in Bedford Street, Covent Garden, between McDonnell and de La
Bourdonnais may certainly be regarded as the inauguration of the
spirited matches between individuals and representatives, both International
and National, which have since become so popular.

The following was the result of this great conflict, La Bourdonnais won
41, McDonnell 29, and there were 13 drawn.
The Evans attack, which had been invented by Capt. W. D. Evans in 1830,
was played 23 times: the attack won 15, the defence 5, and 3 were drawn.

They went out
little. Sometimes Sidi Tart'ri, with his lady mounted on the crupper,
went on mule-back to eat pomegranates in a little garden which he had
bought in the neighbourhood... but never on any account did they go down
to the European part of the town, which with its drunken Zouaves, its
bordellos full of officers and the sound of sabres trailing on the
ground beneath the arcade, seemed to him to be insupportably ugly.
Altogether our Tartarin was perfectly happy. Tartarin-Sancho in
particular, very fond of Turkish pastries, declared himself entirely
satisfied with his new existence. Tartarin-Quixote had perhaps now and
then some regrets, when he remembered Tarascon and the promised lion
skins... but they did not last for long, and to dispel these moments of
sadness all that was needed was a look from Baia or a spoonful of her
diabolic confections, scented and bewitching like some brew of Circe's.

In the evenings prince Gregory came, to talk a little about free
Montenegro. Of indefatigable complaisance, this agreeable nobleman
undertook in the house the function of interpreter and, if need be, even
that of steward, and all for nothing. Apart from him, Tartarin had only
"Teurs" as visitors. All of those ferocious bandits which in the depths
of their dark shops he once found so frightening, turned out to be
harmless tradesmen, embroiderers, spice sellers, turners of pipe
mouthpieces. Discrete, courteous people, modest, shrewd, and good at
cards. Four or five times a week they would spend the evening with
Tartarin, winning his money and eating his confitures, and on the stroke
of ten leaving politely, giving thanks to the Prophet.

After they had left, Sidi Tart'ri and his faithful spouse would finish
the evening on their terrace, a large white-walled terrace which formed
the roof of the building and looked out over the town. All about them
a thousand other terraces, tranquil in the moonlight, dropped one below
the other down to the sea. Suddenly, like a burst of stars, a great
clear chant rose heavenward and on the minaret of the nearby mosque a
handsome Muezzin appeared, his white outline silhouetted against the
deep blue of the night sky. As he invoked the praise of Allah in a
splendid voice which filled the horizon, Baia laid aside her guitar and
with her eyes fixed on the Muezzin seemed to be rapt in prayer. For
as long as the chant lasted she remained ecstatic, like an Arabic
St. Theresa. Tartarin watched her and thought that it must be a beautiful
and powerful religion which could give rise to such transports of faith.
Tarascon hide your face, your Tartarin dreams of becoming apostate.


Chapter 23.

One fine afternoon of blue sky and warm breeze, Sidi Tart'ri, astride
his mule, was returning alone from his little garden, his legs spread
widely over hay filled bags which were further swollen by citrus and
water-melon. Lulled by the creaking of the harness and swaying to the
clip-clop of the animal the good man progressed through the delightful
countryside, his hands crossed on his stomach, three-quarters asleep
from the effect of warmth and wellbeing. Suddenly, as he was entering
the town, a loud hail woke him up. "Hé! You, you great lump! You're
Monsieur Tartarin aren't you?" At the name of Tartarin and the sound of
the Provencal accent Tartarin raised his head and saw, a few feet away,
the tanned features of Barbassou, the Captain of the Zouave, who was
drinking an absinthe and smoking his pipe at the door of a little café.
"Hé! Barbassou by God!" Said Tartarin, pulling up his mule.

Instead of replying Barbassou regarded him wide-eyed for a few moments,
and then he began to laugh and laugh, so that Tartarin sat stunned among
his water-melons. "What a get-up, my poor monsieur Tartarin. It's true
then what people say, that you have become a Teur? And little Baia, does
she still sing 'Marco la belle' all the time?" "Marco la belle," said
Tartarin indignantly, "I'll have you know Captain, that the person
of whom you speak is an honest Moorish girl who doesn't know a word of
French!" "Baia?... Not a word of French?... Where have you come from?" And
the Captain began to laugh again, more than ever. Then noticing the long
face of poor Sidi Tart'ri, he changed tack. "Well perhaps it isn't
the same one," He said, "I've probably got her mixed up with someone
else... only look here, M. Tartarin, you would be wise not to put too much
trust in Algerian Moors, or Montenegrin princes." Tartarin stood up in
his stirrups, and made his grimace, "The prince is my friend, Captain!"
He said. "All right... all right... Don't let's quarrel... would you like
a drink?... no. Any message you would like me to take back?... none. Well
that's it then. Bon voyage.... Oh!... While I think of it, I have some
good French tobacco here, if you would like a few pipes-full take some,
help yourself, it will do you good, it's those blasted local tobaccos
that scramble your brain."

With that the Captain returned to his absinthe and Tartarin pensively
trotted his mule down the road to his little house. Although in his
loyal heart he refused to believe any of the insinuations made by the
Captain, they had upset him, and his rough oaths and country accent had
combined to awake in him a vague feeling of remorse. When he reached
home, Baia had gone to the baths, the negress seemed to him ugly, the
house dismal, and prey to an indefinable melancholy, he went and sat by
the fountain and filled his pipe with Barbassou's tobacco. The tobacco
had been wrapped in a fragment of paper torn from "The Semaphore" and
when he spread it out the name of his home town caught his eye.

"News from Tarascon," He read, "The town is in a state of alarm. Tartarin
the lion killer, who went to hunt the big cats in Africa, has not
been heard of for several months.... What has happened to our heroic
compatriot? One dare hardly ask oneself, knowing as we do his ardent
nature, his courage and love of adventure.... Has he, like so many
others, been swallowed up in the desert sands, or has he perhaps fallen
victim to the murderous teeth of those feline monsters, whose skins he
promised to the municipality.... A terrible incertitude! However, some
African merchants who came to the fair at Beaucaire, claim to have met,
in the heart of the desert, a white man whose description corresponds
with his and who was heading for Timbuctoo. May God preserve our
Tartarin!"

When he read this, Tartarin blushed and trembled. All Tarascon rose
before his eyes. The club. The hat hunters. The green armchair at
Costecalde's shop: and soaring above, like the extended wings of an
eagle, the formidable moustache of the brave Commandant Bravida. Then to
see himself squatting slothfully on his mat, while he was believed to be
engaged in slaying lions, filled him with shame. Suddenly he leaped to
his feet. "To the lions!... To the lions!" He cried, and hurrying to the
dusty corner where lay idle his bivouac tent, his medicine chest, his
preserved foods and his weapons, he dragged them into the middle of the
courtyard. Tartarin-Sancho had just perished, only Tartarin-Quixote was
left.

There was just time enough to inspect his equipment, to don his arms and
accoutrements, to put on his big boots, to write a few lines to prince
Gregory, confiding Baia to his care, to slip into an envelope some
banknotes, wet with tears, and the intrepid Tarasconais was in a
stage-coach, rolling down the road to Blidah, leaving the stupefied
negress in his house, gazing at the turban, the slippers and all the
muslim rig-out of Sidi Tart'ri, hanging discarded on the wall.


Chapter 24.

It was an ancient, old-fashioned stage-coach, upholstered in the old way
in heavy blue cloth, very faded, and with enormous pom-poms, which after
a few hours on the road dug uncomfortably into one's back. Tartarin had
an inside seat, where he installed himself as best he could, and where,
instead of the musky scent of the great cats, he could savour the ripe
perfume of the coach, compounded of a thousand odours of men, women,
horses, leather, food and damp straw.

The other passengers on the coach were a mixed lot. A Trappist monk,
some Jewish merchants, two Cocottes, returning to their unit, the third
Hussars, and a photographer from Orleansville.

No matter how charming and varied the company, Tartarin did not feel
like chatting and remained silent, his arm hooked into the arm-strap and
his weaponry between his knees.... His hurried departure, the dark eyes
of Baia, the dangerous chase on which he was about to engage, these
thoughts troubled his mind, and also there was something about this
venerable stage-coach, now domiciled in Africa, which recalled to him
vaguely the Tarascon of his youth. Trips to the country. Dinners by the
banks of the Rhône, a host of memories.

Little by little it grew dark. The guard lit the lanterns. The old coach
swayed and squeaked on its worn springs. The horses trotted, the bells
on their harness jingling, and from time to time there sounded the clash
of ironmongery from Tartarin's arms chest on the top of the coach.

Sleepily Tartarin contemplated his fellow passengers as they danced
before his eyes, shaken by the jolting of the coach, then his eyes
closed and he heard no more, except vaguely, the rumble of the axles and
the groaning of the coach sides....

Suddenly an ancient female voice, rough, hoarse and cracked, called the
Tarasconais by name: "Monsieur Tartarin!... Monsieur Tartarin!" "Who is
calling me?" "It is I, Monsieur Tartarin, don't you recognise me?... I
am the stage-coach which once ran... it is now twenty years ago... the
service from Tarascon to Nimes.... How many times have I carried you
and your friends when you went hat shooting over by Joncquières or
Bellegarde... I didn't recognise you at first because of your bonnet and
the amount of weight you have put on, but as soon as you began to snore,
you old rascal, I knew you right away." "Bon!... Bon!" Replied Tartarin,
somewhat vexed, but then softening, he added: "But now, my poor old
lady, what are you doing here?" "Ah! My dear M. Tartarin, I did not come
here of my own free will I can promise you. Once the railway reached
Beaucaire no one could find a use for me so I was shipped off to
Africa... and I am not the only one, nearly all the stage-coaches in
France have been deported like me; we were found too old fashioned and
now here we all are, leading a life of slavery." Here the old coach gave
a long sigh, then she went on: "I can't tell you monsieur Tartarin how
much I miss my lovely Tarascon. These were good times for me, the time
of my youth. You should have seen me leaving in the morning, freshly
washed and polished, with new varnish on my wheels, my lamps shining
like suns and my tarpaulin newly dressed with oil. How grand it was
when the postillion cracked his whip and sang out, 'Lagadigadeou, la
Tarasque, la Tarasque' and the guard, with his ticket-punch slung on its
bandolier and his braided cap tipped over one ear, chucked his little
yapping dog onto the tarpaulin of the coach-roof and scrambled up
himself crying 'Let's go!... Let's go!' Then my four horses would start
off with a jingle of bells, barking and fanfares. Windows would open and
all Tarascon would watch with pride the stage-coach setting off along
the king's highway.

"What a fine road it was, Monsieur Tartarin, wide and well kept, with
its kilometre markers, its heaps of roadmender's stones at regular
intervals, and to right and left vinyards and pretty groves of olive
trees. Then inns every few yards, post-houses every five minutes... and
my travellers! What fine folk!... Mayors and curés going to Nimes to see
their Prefect or Bishop, honest workmen, students on holiday, peasants
in embroidered smocks, all freshly shaved that morning, and up on top,
all of you hat shooters, who were always in such good form and who sang
so well to the stars as we returned home in the evening.

"Now it is a different story... God knows the sort of people I carry. A
load of miscreants from goodness knows where, who infest me with vermin.
Negroes, Bedouins, rascals and adventurers from every country, colonists
who stink me out with their pipes, and all of them talking a language
which even our Heavenly Father couldn't understand.... And then you
see how they treat me. Never brushed. Never washed. They grudge me the
grease for my axles, and instead of the fine big, quiet horses which I
used to have, they give me little Arab horses which have the devil in
them, fighting, biting, dancing about and running like goats, breaking
my shafts with kicks. Aie!... Aie! They are at it again now.... And the
roads! It's still all right here, because we are near Government House,
but out there, nothing! No road of any sort. One goes as best one can
over hill and dale through dwarf palms and mastic trees. Not a single
fixed stop. One pulls up at wherever the guard fancies, sometimes at one
farm, sometimes at another. Sometimes this rogue takes me on a detour of
two leagues just so that he can go and drink with a friend. After that
it's 'Whip up postillion, we must make up for lost time.' The sun burns.
The dust chokes... Whip!... Whip! We crash. We tip over.
More whip. We swim across rivers, we are cold, soaked and half
drowned... Whip!... Whip!... Whip! Then in the evening, dripping wet...
that's good for me at my age... I have to bed down in the yard of some
caravan halt, exposed to all the winds. At night jackals and hyenas
come to sniff at my lockers and creatures which fear the dawn hide in
my compartments. That's the life I lead, monsieur Tartarin, and I shall
lead until the day when, scorched by sun and rotted by humid nights, I
shall fall at some corner of this beastly road, where Arabs will boil
their cous-cous on the remains of my old carcase."

"Blidah!... Blidah!" Shouted the guard, opening the coach door.


Chapter 25.

Indistinctly, through the steamed up windows, Tartarin could see the
pretty square of a neatly laid out little township, surrounded by
arcades and planted with orange trees, in the centre of which a group of
soldiers was drilling in the thin, pink haze of early morning. The cafés
were taking down their shutters, in one corner a vegetable market was
under way. It was charming, but in no way did it suggest lions. "To the
south, further to the south." Murmured Tartarin, settling back in his
corner.

At that moment the coach door was opened, letting in a gust of fresh
air, which bore on its wings, amongst the scent of orange blossom,
a very small gentleman in a brown overcoat. Neat, elderly, thin and
wrinkled, with a face no bigger than a fist, a silk cravat five fingers
high, a leather brief-case and an umbrella. The perfect image of a
village notary. On seeing Tartarin's weaponry, the little gentleman, who
was seated opposite him, looked very surprised, and began to stare at
our hero.

The horses were changed and the coach set off... the little gentleman
continued to stare. At length Tartarin became offended and staring in
his turn at the little gentleman he asked "Do you find this surprising?"

"Not at all, but it does rather get in the way." Was the reply, and
the fact is that with his tent, his revolver, his two rifles and their
covers, not to mention his natural corpulence, Tartarin de Tarascon did
take up quite a lot of space.

This reply from the little gentleman annoyed Tartarin, "Do you suppose
that I would go after lions with an umbrella?" Asked the great man
proudly. The little gentleman looked at his umbrella, smiled and
and asked calmly, "You monsieur are...?" "Tartarin de Tarascon, lion
hunter." And in pronouncing these words the brave Tartarin shook the
tassel of his chechia as if it were a mane.

In the coach there was a startled response. The Trappist crossed
himself, the Cocottes uttered little squeaks of excitement and the
photographer edged closer to the lion killer, thinking that he might be
a good subject for a picture. The little gentleman was not in the least
disturbed. "Have you killed many lions, Monsieur Tartarin?" He asked
quietly. Tartarin adopted a lofty air, "Yes many of them. More than you
have hairs on your head." And all the passengers laughed at the sight
of the three or four yellow hairs which sprouted from the little
gentleman's scalp.

The photographer then spoke up, "A terrible profession yours, Monsieur
Tartarin, you must have moments of danger sometimes like that brave
M. Bombonnel." "Ah!... yes... M. Bombonnel, the man who hunts panthers."
Said Tartarin, with some disdain. "Do you know him?" Asked the little
gentleman. "Ti!... Pardi!... To be sure I know him, we have hunted
together more than twenty times." "You hunt panthers also M. Tartarin?"
"Occasionally, as a pastime." Said Tartarin casually, and raising his
head with a heroic gesture which went straight to the hearts of the two
Cocottes, he added "They cannot be compared to lions." "One could say,"
Hazarded the photographer, "That a panther is no more than a large
pussy-cat." "Quite right." Said Tartarin, who was not reluctant to lower
the reputation of this M. Bombonnel, particularly in front of the ladies.

At this moment the coach stopped. The guard came to open the door and
he addressed the little old man, "This is where you want to get off
Monsieur." He said very respectfully.

The little gentleman got up to leave, but before he closed the door
he said "Would you permit me to give you a word of advice M. Tartarin?"
"What is that Monsieur?" "Go back quickly to Tarascon, M. Tartarin, you
are wasting your time here... There are a few panthers left in Algeria,
but, fi donc! They are too small a quarry for you... as for lions, they
are finished. There are no more in Algeria, my friend Chassaing has just
killed the last one."

On that the little gentleman saluted, closed the door and went off,
laughing, with his brief-case and umbrella. "Guard!" Said Tartarin,
making his grimace. "Who on earth was that fellow?" "What! Don't you
know him?" Said the guard, "That's Monsieur Bombonnel!"


Chapter 26.

When the coach reached Milianah Tartarin got out and left it to continue
its journey to the south. Two days of being bumped about and nights
spent peering out of the window in the hope of seeing the outline of a
lion in the fields lining the road, had earned a little rest; and then
it must be admitted that after the misadventure over M. Bombonnel,
Tartarin, in spite of his weapons, his terrible grimace and his
red chechia, had not felt entirely at ease in the presence of the
photographer and the two ladies of the third Hussars.

He made his way along the wide streets of Milianah, full of handsome
trees and fountains, but while he looked for a convenient hotel, he
could not prevent himself from mulling over the words of M. Bombonnel.
What if it were true... what if there were no more lions in Algeria? What
then was the point of all this travel and all these discomforts?

Suddenly at a bend in the road our hero was confronted by a remarkable
spectacle. He found himself face to face with--believe it or not--a
superb lion which was seated regally at the door of a café, Its mane
tawny in the sunshine.

"Who says there are no more lions?" Cried Tartarin, jumping back. On
hearing this exclamation the lion lowered its head, and taking in
its jaws the wooden begging bowl which lay on the pavement before it,
extended it humbly in the direction of Tartarin, who was paralyzed by
astonishment... a passing Arab tossed in a few coppers. Then Tartarin
understood. He saw what his surprise had at first prevented him from
seeing, a crowd of people which was gathered round the poor tame lion,
which was blind, and the two big negroes, armed with cudgels, who led it
about the town.

Tartarin's blood boiled. "Wretches!" He cried "To debase this noble
creature!" And running to the lion he snatched the sordid begging bowl
from the royal jaws.... The two negroes, believing they were dealing
with a thief, threw themselves on Tartarin with raised cudgels. It was
a terrible set-to. Women were screeching children laughing there were
calls for the police and the lion in its darkness joined in with a
fearsome roar. The unhappy Tartarin after a desperate struggle, rolled
on the ground among copper coins and road sweepings.

At this moment a man pushed through the crowd. He dismissed the negroes
with a word and the women and children with a gesture. He helped
Tartarin to his feet, brushed him down and seated him, out of breath,
on a bollard. "Good heavens... prince... Is it really you?" Said Tartarin,
rubbing his ribs. "Indeed yes my valiant friend... it is I. As soon as
I received your letter I confided Baia to her brother, hired a
post-chaise, came fifty leagues flat out and here I am just in time to
save you from the brutality of these louts.... For God's sake what have
you been doing to get yourself dragged into a mess like this?" "What
could you expect me to do, prince, when I saw this unfortunate lion with
the begging bowl in its teeth, humiliated, enslaved, ridiculed, serving
as a laughing stock for this unsavoury rabble...?" "But you are mistaken
my noble friend." Said the prince, "This lion on the contrary is an
object of respect and adoration. It is a sacred beast, a member of
a great convent of lions founded three centuries ago by
Mahommed-ben-Aouda, a sort of wild fierce monastry where strange monks
rear and tame hundreds of lions and send them throughout all north
Africa, accompanied by mendicant brothers. The alms which these brothers
receive serve to maintain the monastry and its mosque, and if those two
negroes were in such a rage just now, it is because they are convinced
that if one sou, one single sou, of their takings is lost through any
fault of theirs, the lion which that are leading will immediately devour
them."

On hearing this unlikely but plausible tale, Tartarin recovered his
spirits. "It seems evident after all," He said "That in spite of what M.
Bombonnel said, there are still lions in Algeria." "To be sure there are,"
said the prince, "And tomorrow we shall begin to search the plains by
the river Cheliff and you shall see." "What!... prince. Do you mean to
join in the hunt yourself?" "Of course" Said the prince "Do you think I
would leave you to wander alone in the middle of Africa, among all those
savage tribes, of whose language and customs you know nothing? No! No!
My dear Tartarin. I shall not leave you again. Wherever you go I shall
accompany you." "Oh!... prince!... prince!" And Tartarin clasped the
valiant Gregory in a warm embrace.


Chapter 27.

Very early the next morning the intrepid Tartarin and the no less
intrepid prince Gregory, followed by half a dozen negro porters, left
Milianah and descended towards the plain of the Chetiff by a steep
pathway, delightfully shaded by jasmine, carobs and wild olives, between
the hedges of little native gardens where a thousand bubbling springs
trickled melodiously from rock to rock, a veritable Eden.

Carrying as much in the way of arms as the great Tartarin, the prince
was further adorned by a magnificent and colourful kepi, covered with
gold braid and decorated with oak leaves embroidered in silver thread,
which gave his highness the appearance of a Mexican General, or a
Middle-European Station-Master. This fantastic kepi greatly intrigued
Tartarin and he asked humbly for an explanation.

"An indispensable form of headgear for the traveller in Africa." The
prince replied gravely; and while polishing the peak on his coat-sleeve
he instructed his innocent companion on the important role played by the
kepi in colonial administration, and the deference which its appearance
inspires. This to such an extent that the government has been obliged
to issue kepis to everyone from the canteen worker to the
registrar-general. In fact, according to the prince, to govern the
country there was no necessity for an elaborate regime. All that was
needed was a fine gold-braided kepi glittering on the end of a big
stick.

Thus conversing and philosophising, they went there way. The bare-footed
porters leapt from rock to rock, shouting and chattering. The armaments
rattled in their case. The guns glittered in the sun.. The locals who
passed bowed deeply before the magical kepi.... Up on the ramparts of
Milianah, the chief of the Arab bureau, who was walking with his lady in
the cool of the morning, hearing these unusual noises and seeing between
the branches the flash of sunlight on the weapons, feared a surprise
attack; whereupon he lowered the portcullis, beat the alarm and put the
town in a state of siege.

This was a good start to the expedition. Regrettably, before the end of
the day, the situation deteriorated. One of the negroes was taken with
the most fearful colic, having eaten the plasters in the medicine
chest. Another fell, dead drunk, by the wayside, as a result of swigging
spirits of camphor. A third, in charge of the log-book, deceived by the
gold lettering on the cover, thought he had hold of the treasures of
Mecca and made off with it at top speed.... Clearly some planning was
needed, so the party halted and took council in the shade of an old fig
tree. "In my opinion" Said the prince, trying unsuccessfully to dissolve
a tablet of pemmican in a cooking pot, "In my opinion, after this
evening we should get rid of these negro porters. There is an Arab
market near here and our best plan would be to go there and buy some
bourriquots." "No!... No!... No bourriquots!" Interrupted Tartarin, who
had become very red at the memory of Noiraud, adding hypocritically,
"How can these little creatures carry all our equipment?"

The prince smiled, "You are mistaken my illustrious friend," He said,
"The bourriquot may seem to you a poor weak creature, but it has a great
heart... It needs it to support all it has to bear... ask the Arabs. This
is their idea of our administration. On top they say, is the governor
with a big stick which he uses to thump his staff. The staff in turn
thump the soldiers. The soldiers thump the colonist. The colonist thumps
the Arab, the Arab the negro, and the Negro thumps the bourriquot. The
poor little bourriquot having no one to thump, bares its back and puts
up with it. So you can see it is well able to carry all our gear."

"That's all very well." Replied Tartarin, "But I don't think that
donkeys add much colour to the general appearance of our caravan. Now if
we could have a camel...!"

"Just as you wish." Said his highness, and they set off for the market.

The market was held some distance away on the bank of the Cheliff.
There were five or six thousand Arabs milling around in the sun, trading
noisily among piles of olives, pots of honey, sacks of spices and heaps
of cigars. There were fires at which whole sheep were roasting, dripping
with butter. There were open air butcheries where almost naked negroes,
their feet paddling in blood and their arms red to the elbow, were
cutting up the carcases of goats hanging from hooks... In one corner, in
a tent repaired in a thousand different colours, was a Moorish official
with a big book and spectacles. Over there is a crowd. There are cries
of rage. It is a roulette game that has been set up on a corn bin and
the tribesmen gathered about it have started fighting with knives.
Elsewhere, there are cheers, laughter and stamping of feet, a
merchant and his mule have fallen into the river and are in danger of
drowning.... There are scorpions, crows, dogs and flies, millions of
flies, but no camels.

Eventually a camel was discovered which some nomads were trying to
dispose of. This was a real desert camel, with little hair, a sad
expression and a hump which through long shortage of fodder hung
flaccidly to one side. Tartarin was so taken with it that he wanted the
two partners to be mounted. This proved to be a mistake.

The camel knelt, the trunks were strapped on, the prince installed
himself on the creature's neck and Tartarin was hoisted up to the top of
the hump, between two cases, from where he proudly saluted the assembled
market and gave the signal for departure.... Heavens above!.... If only
Tarascon could see him now!

The camel rose, stretched out its long legs and took off. Calamity! The
camel pitched and rolled like a frigate in a rough sea and the chechia
responded to the motion as it had on the Zouave. "Prince... prince"
Murmured Tartarin, ashen-faced, and clutching the scanty hair of the
hump, "Prince... let us get down, I feel... I feel I am going to disgrace
France." But the camel was in full flight and nothing was going to
stop it. Four thousand Arabs were running behind, bare-footed, waving,
laughing like idiots, six hundred thousand white teeth glistening in
the sun.... The great man of Tarascon had to resign himself to the
inevitable, and France was disgraced.


Chapter 28.

Despite the picturesque nature of their new mode of transport our lion
hunters were forced to dismount, out of regard for the chechia. They
continued their journey as before, on foot, and the caravan proceeded
tranquilly toward the south with Tartarin in front, the prince in the
rear and between them the camel with the baggage.

The expedition lasted for a month. For a whole month, Tartarin, hunting
for non-existent lions, wandered from village to village in the immense
plain of the Chetiff, across this extraordinary, cock-eyed French
Algeria, where the perfumes of ancient Araby are mingled with a powerful
stink of Absinthe and barrack-room; Abraham and Zouzou combined, a
strange mixture like a page of the Old Testament rewritten by Sergeant
Le Ramée or Corporal Pitou.... A curious spectacle for those who would
care to look.... A savage and decadent people whom we are civilising
by giving them our own vices. The cruel and uncontrolled authority of
Pashas, inflated with self-importance in their cordons of the legion of
honour, who at their whim have people beaten on the soles of their feet.
The so-called justice of bespectacled Cadis, traitors to the koran and
to the law, who sell their judgements as did Esau his birthright for
a plate of cous-cous. Drunken and libertine headmen, former batmen to
General Yussif someone or other, who guzzle champagne in the company of
harlots, and indulge in feasts of roast mutton, while before their tents
the whole tribe is starving and disputes with the dogs the leavings of
the seigniorial banquet.

Then, all around, uncultivated plain. Scorched grass. Bushes bare of
leaves. Scrub. Cactus. Mastic trees... The granary of France?... A granary
empty of grain and rich only in jackals and bugs. Abandoned villages.
Bewildered tribesfolk who run they know not where, fleeing from famine
and sowing corpses along the road. Here and there a French settlement,
the houses dilapidated, the fields untilled and raging hordes of locusts
who eat the very curtains from the windows, while the colonists are all
in cafés, drinking absinthe and discussing projects for the reform of
the constitution.

That is what Tartarin could have seen, if he had taken the trouble, but
obsessed with his fantasy the man from Tarascon marched straight ahead,
his vision limited to searching for these monstrous felines, of which
there was no trace.

Since the bivouac tent obstinately refused to open and the pemmican
tablets to dissolve, the hunting party was compelled to stop daily at
tribal villages. Everywhere, thanks to the prince's kepi, they were
received with open arms. They were lodged by chieftains in strange
palaces, great white buildings without windows, where were piled up
hookahs and mahogany commodes, Smyrna carpets and adjustable oil lamps,
cedar-wood chests full of Turkish sequins and clocks decorated in the
style of Louis Phillipe. Everywhere Tartarin was treated to fêtes and
official receptions. In his honour whole villages turned out, firing
volleys in the air, their burnous gleaming in the sun: after which the
good chieftain would come to present the bill.

Nowhere, however, were there any more lions than there are on the Pont
Neuf in Paris: but Tartarin was not discouraged, he pushed bravely on to
the south. His days were spent scouring the scrub, rummaging among the
dwarf palms with the end of his carbine and going "Frt!... Frt!" At each
bush... Then every evening a stand-to of two or three hours... A wasted
effort. No lions appeared.

One evening, however, at about six o'clock, as they were going through
a wood of mastic trees, where fat quail, made lazy by the heat were
jumping up from the grass, Tartarin thought he heard... but so far
off... so distorted by the wind... so faint, the wonderful roar which
he had heard so many times back home in Tarascon, behind the menagerie
Mitaine.

At first he thought he had imagined it, but in a moment, still far
distant, but now more distinct, the roaring began again, and this time
one could hear, all around, the barking of village dogs; while, stricken
by terror and rattling the boxes of arms and preserves, the camel's hump
trembled. There could be no more doubt.... It was a lion! Quick!... Quick!
Into position! Not a moment to lose!

There was, close by them, an old Marabout (the tomb of a holy man) with
a white dome: the big yellow slippers of the deceased lying in a recess
above the door, together with a bizarre jumble of votive offerings which
hung along the walls: fragments of burnous, some gold thread, a tuft
of red hair. There Tartarin installed the prince and the camel,
and prepared to look for a hide. He was determined to face the lion
single-handed, so he earnestly requested His Highness not to leave the
spot, and for safe keeping he handed to him his wallet, a fat wallet
stuffed with valuable papers and banknotes. This done our hero sought
his post.

About a hundred yards in front of the Marabout, on the banks of an
almost dry river, a clump of oleanders stirred in the faint twilight
breeze, and it was there that Tartarin concealed himself in ambush,
kneeling on one knee, in what he felt was an appropriate position, his
rifle in his hands and his big hunting knife stuck into the sandy soil
of the river bank in front of him.

Night was falling. The rosy daylight turned to violet and then to
a sombre blue.... Below, amongst the stones of the river bed, there
glistened like a hand-mirror a little pool of clear water: a drinking
place for the wild animals. On the slope of the opposite bank one could
see indistinctly the path which they had made through the trees: a view
which Tartarin found a bit unnerving. Add to this the vague noises of
the African night, the rustle of branches, the thin yapping of jackals,
and in the sky a flock of cranes passing with cries like children being
murdered. You must admit that this could be unsettling, and Tartarin was
unsettled, he was even very unsettled! His teeth chattered and the rifle
shook in his hands; well... there are evenings when one is not at one's
best, and where would be the merit if heroes were never afraid?

Tartarin was, admittedly, afraid, but in spite of his fear he held on
for an hour... two hours, but heroism has its breaking point. In the dry
river bed, close to him, Tartarin heard the sound of footsteps rattling
the pebbles. Terror overtook him. He rose to his feet, fired both
barrels blindly into the night and ran at top speed to the Marabout,
leaving his knife stuck in the ground as a memorial to the most
overwhelming panic that ever affected a hero.

"A moi! prince!... A Moi!... The lion!"... There was no answer.
"Prince!... prince! Are you there?".... The prince was not there. Against
the white wall of the Marabout was only the silhouette of the worthy
camel's hump. The prince Gregory had disappeared, taking with him the
wallet and the banknotes. His highness had been waiting for a month for
such an opportunity.


Chapter 29.

The day after this adventurous yet tragic evening, when at first light
our hero awoke and realised that the prince and his money had gone and
would not return; when he saw himself alone in this little white tomb,
betrayed, robbed and abandoned in the middle of savage Algeria with a
one-humped camel and some loose change as his total resources, for the
first time some misgivings entered his mind. He began to have doubts
about Montenegro, about friendship, fame and even lions. Overcome by
misery he shed bitter tears.

While he was sitting disconsolately at the door of the Marabout with his
head in his hands, his rifle between his knees and watched over by
the camel... behold! The undergrowth opposite was thrust aside and the
thunderstruck Tartarin saw not ten paces away a gigantic lion, which
advanced towards him uttering roars which shook the ragged offerings on
the wall of the Marabout and even the slippers of the holy man in their
recess. Only Tartarin remained unshaken. "At last!" He cried, jumping
to his feet with his rifle butt to his shoulder... Pan!... Pan!...
Pft!... Pft!... The lion had two explosive bullets in its head!
Fragments of lion erupted like fireworks into the burning African sky,
and as they fell to earth, Tartarin saw two furious negroes, who ran
towards him with raised cudgels. The two negroes of Milianah... Oh!
Misère!... It was the the tame lion, the poor blind lion of the convent
of Mahommed that the bullets of the Tarasconais had felled.

This time Tartarin had the narrowest of escapes. Drunk with fanatical
fury, the two negro mendicants would surely have had him in pieces had
not the God of the Christians sent him a Guardian Angel in the shape
of the District Police Officer from Orleansville, who arrived down the
pathway, his sabre tucked under his arm, at that very moment. The
sight of the municipal kepi had an immediate calming effect on the two
negroes. Stern and majestic the representative of the law took down the
particulars of the affair, had the remains of the lion loaded onto
the camel, and ordered the plaintiff and the accused to follow him to
Orleansville, where the whole matter was placed in the hands of the
legal authorities.

There then commenced a long and involved process. After the tribal
Algeria in which he had been wandering, Tartarin now made the
acquaintance of the no less peculiar and cock-eyed Algeria of the towns:
litigious and legalistic. He encountered a sleazy justicary who stitched
up shady deals in the back rooms of cafés. The Bohemian society of the
gentlemen of the law; dossiers which stank of absinthe, white cravats
speckled with drink and coffee stains. He was embroiled with ushers,
solicitors, and business agents, all the locusts of officialdom, thin
and ravenous, who strip the colonist down to his boots and leave him
shorn leaf by leaf like a stalk of maize.

The first essential point to be decided was whether the lion had been
killed on civil or military territory. In the first case Tartarin
would come before a civil tribunal, in the second he would be tried by
court-martial: at the word court-martial Tartarin imagined himself
lying shot at the foot of the ramparts, or crouching in the depths of
a dungeon... A major difficulty was that the delimitation of these two
areas was extremely vague, but at last, after months of consultation,
intrigue, and vigils in the sun outside the offices of the Arab Bureau,
it was established that on the one hand the lion was, when killed, on
military ground, but on the other hand that Tartarin when he fired the
fatal shot was in civilian territory. The affair was therefore a civil
matter, and Tartarin was freed on the payment of an indemnity of two
thousand five hundred francs, not including costs.

How was this to be paid? The little money left after the prince's
defection had long since gone on legal documents and judicial absinthe.
The unfortunate lion killer was now reduced to selling off his armament
rifle by rifle. He sold the daggers, the knives and coshes. A grocer
bought the preserved food, a chemist what was left of the medicine
chest. Even the boots went, with the bivouac tent, into the hands of
a merchant of bric-a-brac. Once everything had been paid, Tartarin
was left with little but the lion-skin and the camel. The lion-skin he
packed up carefully and despatched to Tarascon, to the address of the
brave Commandant Bravida. As for the camel, he counted on it to get him
back to Algiers: not by riding it, but by selling it to raise the fare
for the stage-coach, which was at least better than camel-back. Sadly
the camel proved a difficult market, and no one offered to buy it at any
price.

Tartarin was determined to get back to Algiers, even if it meant
walking. He longed to see once more Baia's blue corslet, his house, his
fountain and to rest on the white tiles of his his little cloister while
he awaited money to be sent from France. In these circumstances
the camel did not desert him. This strange animal had developed an
inexplicable affection for its master, and seeing him set out from
Orleansville it followed him faithfully, regulating its pace to his and
not quitting him by as much as a footstep.

At first Tartarin found it touching. This fidelity, this unshakable
devotion seemed wholly admirable; besides which the beast was no trouble
and was able to find its own food. However, after a few days Tartarin
grew tired of having perpetually at his heels this melancholy companion,
who reminded him of all his misadventures. He began to be irritated.
He took a dislike to its air of sadness to its hump and its haughty
bearing. In he end he became so exasperated with it that his only wish
was to be rid of it; but the camel would not be dismissed. Tartarin
tried to lose it, but the camel always found him. He tried running
away, but the camel could run faster. He shouted "Clear off!" and threw
stones: the camel stopped and regarded him with a mournful expression,
then after a few moments it resumed its pace and caught up with him.
Tartarin had to resign himself to its company.

When, after eight days of walking, Tartarin, tired and dusty, saw
gleaming in the distance the white terraces of Algiers, when he found
himself on the outskirts of the town, on the bustling Mustapha road,
amid the crowds who watched him go by with the camel in attendance, his
patience snapped, and taking advantage of some traffic congestion he
ducked into a field and hid in a ditch. In a few moments he saw above
his head, on the causeway, the camel striding along rapidly, its neck
anxiously extended. Greatly relieved to be rid of it, Tartarin entered
the town by a side road which ran along by the wall of his house.

On his arrival at his Moorish house, Tartarin halted in astonishment. The
day was ending, the streets deserted. Through the low arched doorway,
which the negress had forgotten to close, could be heard laughter, the
clinking of glasses, the popping of a champagne cork and the cheerful
voice of a woman singing loud and clear:

"Aimes-tu Marco la belle,

"La danse aux salons en fleurs..."

"Tron de Diou!" Said Tartarin, blenching, and he rushed into the
courtyard.

Unhappy Tartarin! What a spectacle awaited him!.... Amid bottles,
pastries, scattered cushions, tambourine, guitar, and hookah, Baia
stood, without her blue jacket or her corslet, dressed only in a silver
gauze blouse and big pink pantaloons, singing "Marco la belle" with a
naval officer's hat tipped over one ear... while on a rug at her
feet surfeited with love and confitures, was Barbassou, the infamous
Barbassou, roaring with laughter as he listened to her.

The arrival of Tartarin, haggard, thin, covered in dust, with blazing
eyes and bristling chechia cut short this enjoyable Turco-Marseillaise
orgy. Baia uttered a little cry, and like a startled leveret she bolted
into the house, but Barbassou was not in the least put out and laughed
more than ever: "Hé!... Hé!... Monsieur Tartarin. What did I tell you? You
can hear that she knows French all right."

Tartarin advanced, furious: "Captain!.." He began; but then, leaning
over the balcony with a rather vulgar gesture, Baia threw down a few
well-chosen words. Tartarin, deflated, sat down on a drum, his Moor
spoke in the argot of the Marseilles back-streets.

"When I warned you not to trust Algerian women," Said Captain Barbassou
sententiously, "The same applied to your Montenegrin prince." Tartarin
looked up, "Do you know where the prince is?" he asked.

"Oh, he is not far away. He will spend the next five years in the
fine prison at Mustapha. The clown was foolish enough to be caught
stealing... and anyway this is not the first time His Highness has been
inside, he has already done three years in gaol somewhere, and... hang
on!... I believe it was in Tarascon!

"In Tarascon!" Cried Tartarin, suddenly enlightened, "that is why I never
saw him there. All he knew of Tarascon was what he could see from a cell
window."

"Hé!... without a doubt.... Ah! My poor M. Tartarin, you have to keep both
eyes wide open in this devilish country if you don't want to be taken
in. Like that business of the Muezzin."

"What business?... What Muezzin?"

"Ti!... Pardi!" The Muezzin opposite, who was courting Baia; all Algiers
knew about it. Not all the prayers he was chanting were addressed
to Allah, some were directed to the little one, and he was making
propositions under your nose. "It seems that everyone in this beastly
country is a crook", Wailed the unhappy Tartarin. Barbassou shrugged his
shoulders, "My dear fellow, you know how it is. All these sort of places
are the same. If you take my advice you will go back to Tarascon as
quickly as possible."

"That's easy to say, but what am I to do for money? Don't you know how
they robbed me out there in the desert?"

"Don't worry about that," laughed the Captain, "the Zouave is leaving
tomorrow and I'll take you back if you want... does that suit you,
colleague?... All right... Good! There's only one thing left to do, there
is still some champagne and some pastries left. Come, sit down and let
bygones be bygones." After a little delay which his dignity required,
our hero accepted the offer. They sat down and poured out a drink.
Hearing the clink of glasses, Baia came down and finished singing Marco
la Belle, and the party went on until late in the night.


Chapter 30.

It is mid-day. Bird is, however, too much of an advocate to be a
good judge, and he evinces great partiality for ingenious traps and
seductive combinations, which form an attractive feature of his
own style in actual play, but which mostly occur only in light
skirmishes. Moreover he often treats his duties as an analyst in
a cavalier fashion. In his quotations from other authors he embodies
variations which stand already severely condemned by first-class chess
critics in various chess periodicals; and his original researches
contain a considerable portion of "skittle" analysis, which does
not bear cursory examination.

We have no room for lengthened demonstrations, and must confine
ourselves to a few instances of the latter description, all occurring
in the compiler's new additions.

On page 6, he overlooks the winning of a clear piece which White
can effect by Q to R4, followed by P to QR3 if the B be defended. On
page 22 Black can win a piece on the 16th move by P to KB4, followed by
P to KKt3, and there is no chance of any counter-attack by P to KKt4,
for Black may afterwards interpose the B at K4, and get the K into the
corner. On page 105 a piece can be won by Black on the l0th move by B
to Q5, for the Kt has no retreat, a mate being threatened at KB3.

The ending of a game between Messrs. Bird and MacDonnell affords a still
more remarkable illustration. There is abundant proof that the author
must have examined the position at least more than once, for, by a
singular error, the identical ending appears twice in the book--on pages
183 and 197,--each time with a large diagram. On each occasion a win
is demonstrated for White in nine moves, while at least a piece can be
gained at once by Q to K7, followed accordingly by P to Q6 dis. ch., or
B to KKt5. Mr.

Bird would be annoyed to make such oversights over the board; and there is
no excuse for such shallow examples being recommended to the student
without the least comment on their weak points.

As regards the general arrangement, we have to remark that the variations
sometimes seem to have been examined loosely and separately, irrespective
of their relation to each other, or to the main propositions of
the author in reference to the form of opening he deals with; and
the brevity or length of space assigned to different forms of play
have apparently been decided in a whimsical and arbitrary manner.

For instance, on page 29, in the Philidor's defence, 7. Kt to KB3, is
described to afford the most satisfactory and secure opening for Black.
On the next page the move is repeated under the separate heading,
Example II, and it looks odd enough that one single move should have
received such prominence, the only addition being, "Won by Harrwitz
in 40 moves," as if it were to be forced by Black in that number,
while at the time the positions show little difference.

But, stranger still, four pages later on (page 34) the identical
variation reappears, taken from the same game between Morphy and
Harrwitz (though this is not stated), with three more moves on each
side added to it, but this time the remark is made, that "White
has a good position."

To take another example. On page 78 there is a repetition of 10 moves
on each side, merely for the purpose of indicating a different 11th
move for White.

It is scarcely necessary to point out that in each case the stronger
move should have been inserted in the main variation, while the weaker
one could have been disposed of in a foot-note of one line.

While on this subject we cannot refrain from mentioning the frequent
references to "Chess Masterpieces," a work previously published by
the author, which contained a collection of fine games partly reproduced
from Howard Taylor's "Chess Brilliants," and other publications,
with additions mostly from Mr.

Bird's own practice. We must confess that some of the so-called
variations extracted from the "Masterpieces," appear to be nothing
more than advertisements. Notably, on page 157, four "examples" are
given, which do not go beyond the 4th move, and leave no mark on the
positions, and then we are gravely informed, in a manner already
described, that White or Black won in so-and-so many moves.

There stood the brave Commandant Bravida, Costecalde the
gunsmith, the President Ladevèze, the chemist and all the noble body of
hat shooters, who pressed round their chief and carried him all the way
down the steps.

How remarkable are the effects of the "mirage". The skin of the blind
lion sent to the Commandant was the cause of all this tumult. At the
sight of this modest trophy, displayed at the club, Tarascon and beyond
Tarascon the whole of the Midi had worked themselves into a state of
excitement. The list of chess works of consideration up to Philidor's
time, number about thirty, but there were several editions of Jacobus
de Cessolus (1275 to 1290) including translations by J. Ferron and
Jean De Vigny, from which last named Caxton's book of 1474 was derived.
The excitement of the populace reached its peak when a fantastic animal,
covered in dust and sweat, stumbled down the station steps behind our
hero. For a moment they thought that the Tarasque had returned.

The chessmen of Henry VIII were last heard of in the possession of Sir
Thomas Herbert, those of Charles I were with Lord Barrington. Chess
men were kept for Queen Elizabeth's use by Lord Cecil, the Earl of
Leicester, and Sir John Harrington.So saying,
he took the arm of the Commandant, who was blushing with pride, and
followed by his camel, surrounded by hat shooters and acclaimed by the
people, he proceeded peacefully toward the little house of the baobab;
and as he walked along he began the story of his great expedition.

"There was one particular evening," He said, "When I was out in the
heart of the Sahara..."