Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


TUCK-ME-IN TALES
(Trademark Registered)

THE TALE OF FREDDIE FIREFLY

BY

ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY
Author of
"SLEEPY-TIME TALES"
(Trademark Registered).

ILLUSTRATED BY
HARRY L. SMITH

NEW YORK

1918


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

I.     A MERRY DANCER
II.    A FINE PLAN
III.   FREDDIE AGREES TO HELP
IV.    GETTING READY
V.     AT THE STONE WALL
VI.    THE BANNERS
VII.   THE TORCHLIGHT PARADE
VIII.  BUSTER'S SCHEME
IX.    FREDDIE'S PROMISE
X.     DRAWING LOTS
XI.    PEPPERY POLLY
XII.   A TERRIBLE SONG
XIII.  CAUGHT BY A THISTLE
XIV.   JENNIE JUNEBUG
XV.    THE FAT LADY'S SECRET
XVI.   FREDDIE'S ESCAPE
XVII.  BAD BENJAMIN BAT
XVIII. PLEASING FARMER GREEN
XIX.   BENJAMIN FEELS GUILTY
XX.    MRS. LADYBUG'S ADVICE
XXI.   ALL ABOUT TRAINS
XXII.  WORK ON THE RAILROAD
XXIII. WHY FREDDIE WAS GLAD


ILLUSTRATIONS

YOU'RE TERRIBLY CARELESS WITH THAT
LIGHT OF YOURS . . . Frontispiece

FREDDIE SAT ON TOP OF THE BANNER

FREDDIE PLAYS A JOKE ON PEPPERY POLLY BUMBLEBEE

FREDDIE WAS BUMPED INTO BY JENNIE JUNEBUG


THE TALE OF
FREDDIE FIREFLY


I

A MERRY DANCER


Nobody in Pleasant Valley ever paid any attention to Freddie Firefly in
the daytime. But on warm, and especially on dark summer nights he always
appeared at his best. Then he went gaily flitting through the meadows.
And sometimes he even danced right in Farmer Green's dooryard, together
with a hundred or two of his nearest relations.

No one could help noticing those sprightly revelers, flashing their
greenish-white lights through the gloom. And many of the field people,
as well as the folk that lived in the farmhouse, thought that the
dancers made a pretty sight.

But there were others who said that the Firefly family might better be
spending their time in some more serious way.

Benjamin Bat, who lived in Cedar Swamp, was one of those who found fault
with the merry dancers. He grumbled a good deal about them--and
especially about Freddie Firefly.

"He's so proud of that light he carries!" Benjamin often exclaimed,
"Now, if he could hang by his feet from the limb of a tree--and SLEEP at
the same time--he'd have something to boast of!"

No doubt Benjamin Bat was jealous. Anyhow, Solomon Owl declared that
there was still another reason why Benjamin did not like Freddie
Firefly. Solomon claimed that Benjamin would have liked to EAT Freddie.
But he didn't quite dare to grab him for fear of getting burned by
Freddie's light.

If that was so, then it was no wonder that Freddie kept flashing his
light in the dark. And it was lucky that he had a light, because--like
Benjamin Bat himself--he was a night-prowler.

Unlike Farmer Green, Freddie believed that the night air was very
healthful. And together with all his family, he thought that a damp
place was much to be preferred to a dry one.

He often remarked that the pollen upon which he frequently dined tasted
best when the dew was upon it. And he never could understand why Buster
Bumblebee's sisters, the ill-tempered workers, always gathered nectar
for their honey-making in the daytime.

"Everyone to his own taste!" Freddie sometimes said. "And I suppose that
those who sleep from sunset to dawn don't know what they're missing."

Johnnie Green, who went to bed almost as early as the Bumblebee family,
couldn't help envying Freddie Firefly and all his sprightly company.
Johnnie thought it must be great fun to frolic the whole night long--if
only Solomon Owl wouldn't scare a person half out of his wits with that
unearthly hooting of which Solomon was so fond.

But you may be sure that Freddie Firefly never bothered HIS head over
Solomon Owl. Perhaps he knew that Solomon was too busy hunting for mice
to take notice of anybody so small as he was, even if he did carry a
bright light everywhere he went.


II

A FINE PLAN


Chirpy Cricket was one of Freddie Firefly's neighbors. He was a good
neighbor for anybody to have, too, because he was one of the most
cheerful of all the field and forest-folk that lived in Pleasant Valley.
Freddie Firefly liked him. And he often remarked that he would rather
hear Chirpy Cricket sing than sing himself.

Since he was so fond of hearing Chirpy's songs, it was lucky for Freddie
that his sprightly neighbor usually chose to sing at night, when Freddie
could better enjoy his shrill ditty. And Freddie frequently went out of
his way on a fine, dark, summer's night to find Chirpy Cricket and thank
him for his kindness.

At such times Chirpy Cricket always smiled mysteriously, saying "I'm
glad my voice pleases you." But it must be confessed that he was not
singing for Freddie Firefly's benefit at all. He was singing for his own
entertainment--and maybe to please some lady of his acquaintance as
well. And he chose night time for his chirping because he didn't dare
sing during the day. He knew that after sunset almost all the birds were
asleep--except for Solomon Owl and Willie Whip-poor-will and a few other
feathered folk who preferred the dark to the daylight. They were not so
numerous that they worried Chirpy very much. But between dawn and sunset
there were altogether too many birds awake to please him. Then Chirpy
Cricket kept quite silent. He didn't wish to draw attention to himself
by singing, because he didn't care to be gobbled up by any bird, no
matter how handsome or hungry the bird might be.

Perhaps it is a wonder that Chirpy could be so cheerful as he was,
living under such difficulties as he did. But on the other hand, maybe
he felt so carefree at night that he couldn't help being jolly.

Anyhow, he was always ready for a good time. And if there was no good
time at hand, usually Chirpy Cricket could think of some sort of frolic.

And so, at last, he hit upon the idea of a torchlight procession.
Somebody had told him that Farmer Green's family had seen such a parade
in the village one evening. And Chirpy Cricket saw no reason why he and
his friends should not enjoy one too, right there in the shadow of Blue
Mountain.

"What they can do in the village, we can do here!" he exclaimed. And
though it was still broad daylight--being not later than the middle of
the afternoon--Chirpy set out at once to find Freddie Firefly, because
he simply had to get Freddie to help him.

He found Freddie in the swampy part of the meadow, near the place where
the cat-tails grew. And though Freddie was a bit sleepy, he became wide
awake the moment he heard Chirpy Cricket's voice.

"I've thought of a fine plan!" Chirpy Cricket cried. "I'm going to have
a torchlight procession and I want you and all your family to take part
in it."


III

FREDDIE AGREES TO HELP


Never in all his life had Freddie Firefly heard of a torchlight
procession--nor of any other sort of procession, either. So when Chirpy
Cricket first mentioned his plan it was no wonder that Freddie looked
somewhat blank.

I can only say, suffer, but do not yield. Sometimes I think that silent,
submissive patience is better than struggle. It is sweet to be in
the sunshine of the Master's smile, but I believe our souls need
winter as well as summer, night as well as day.

Perhaps not to the end; I have not come to that yet, and so do not know;
I speak from my own experience, as far as it goes. Temptation has
this one good side to it: it keeps us _down_; we are ashamed of ourselves,
we see we have nothing to boast of.

I told you, you will perhaps remember, that you were going to enter
the valley of humiliation in which I have dwelt so long, but I trust
we are only taking it in our way to the land of Beulah.

And how we "pant to be there"! What a curious friendship ours has
been!

and it is one that can never sever--unless, indeed, we fall away
from Christ, which may He in mercy forbid!...

I do pray for you twice every day, and hope you pray for me. I do long
so to know the truth and to enter into it. Certainly I have got some new
light during the last year, in the midst of my trials, both within
and without.

To another young friend she writes a few days later:

I remember when I was, religiously, at your age I was longing for holiness,
but my faith staggered at some of the conditions for it.

I had no conception, much as Christ was to me, what He was going to
become.
But I wish I could make you a birth-day present of my experience since
then, and you could have Him now, instead of learning, as I had
to learn Him, in much tribulation.

_To Mrs. Condict, Jan. 15, 1873._
I have been meaning, for some days, to write you about the Professorship.
[1] It is a new one, and is called "the Skinner and McAlpine" chair, and
Mr. Prentiss says there could not be a more agreeable field of
usefulness.

It is most likely that he will feel it to be his duty to accept. As
to myself, I am about apathetic on the subject. My will has been broken
over the Master's knee, if I may use such an expression, by so much
suffering, that I look with indifference on such outward changes.

We can be made willing to be burnt alive, if need be.

For four or five years to come I shall not be obliged to leave the
church I love so dearly; if the Seminary is moved out to Harlem,
it will be different; but it is not worth while to think of that now.

It seems to me that Mr. P. has reached an age when, never being very
strong, a change like this may be salutary. _February 3d._--You will be
sorry to hear that dear Mrs. C. is quite sick. Her daughters are all
worn out with the care of her. I was there all day Saturday, but I can
do nothing in the way of night watching; nor much at any time.

A very little over-exertion knocks me up this winter. It is just as much
as I can do to keep my head above water.... Sometimes I think that the
_dreadful_ experience I have been passing through is God's way of baptizing
me; some _have_ to be baptized with suffering.

Certainly He has been sitting as the Refiner, bringing down my pride,
emptying me of this and that, and not leaving me a foot to stand on. If
it all ends in sanctification I don't care what I suffer.

Though cast down, I am not in despair.

It is an encouragement to hear Mahan compare states of the soul to
house-cleaning time. [2] It is just so with me.

Every chair and table, every broom and brush is out of place, topsy-turvy....
But I can't believe God has been wasting the last two years on me;
I can't help hoping that He is answering my prayer, my cry for
holiness--only in a strange way.

Dr. and Mrs. Abbot spent Sunday and Monday with us a week ago, and
I read to them Dr. Steele's three tracts and lent them Mahan.
They were much interested, but I do not know how much struck.

I can not smile, as some do, at Dr. Steele's testimony.

I believe in it fully and heartily. If I do not know what it is to "find
God real," I do not know anything. Never was my faith in the strongest
doctrines of Christianity stronger than it is now.

_Feb. 13th._--I spent part of yesterday in reading Stepping Heavenward!

You will think that very strange till I add that it was in German;
and, as the translator has all my books, I wanted to know whether
she had done this work satisfactorily before authorising her to
proceed with the rest.

She has omitted so much, that it is rather an abridgment than a
translation; otherwise it is well done.

But she has so purged it of vivacity, that I am afraid it will plod on
leaden feet, if it plods at all, heavenward. And now I must hurry off
to my sewing-circle.

_To a young Friend, April 4, 1873._
I want to correct any mistaken impression I have made on you in
conversation.

The utmost I meant to say was, that I had got new light intellectually,
or theologically, on the subject of the working of the Spirit.

But now he was feeling quite cheerful again.

As he went from place to place inviting his friends to come to the
torchlight procession that night, he found that a good many felt as
Buster Bumblebee did. They declined to break their life-long rule of
going early to bed. But there were others, such as Mr. Moses Mosquito,
Kiddie Katydid, and Mehitable Moth, who said at once that they were glad
he asked them and that they wouldn't miss the fun for anything.

Meanwhile Freddie Firefly was just as busy as Chirpy Cricket. And he had
somewhat better luck. For not only did fifty-five of his brothers and
six dozen of his cousins promise to take part in the procession--and
bring their lights, too--but at least three hundred others, including
some of Freddie's second and third cousins, agreed gladly to join in the
evening's sport.

So before dark Freddie sent a message to Chirpy Cricket by Greenie
Grasshopper, telling him that he might count on a big turnout of the
Firefly family.

That was good news. And Chirpy Cricket felt so happy that he began to
sing earlier in the evening than was his custom.

While it was still dusk he went to the stone wall where the procession
was to form. And of course he had to wait there a long time before the
first of the Firefly family appeared.

Even for a person as cheerful as Chirpy Cricket, it was hard to wait.
But he consoled himself by chirping his loudest.

"I suppose Freddie Firefly and all his relations are very busy getting
their lights ready," he thought.

At last, when it was quite dark, Freddie Firefly lighted on a head of
timothy grass close beside the stone wall and began to flash his light
right in Chirpy Cricket's face.

"Here I am, just as I promised!" he called.


V

AT THE STONE WALL


"Where's the rest of your crowd?" Chirpy Cricket asked Freddie Firefly,
when they met by the stone wall. "It's getting darker every minute. And
the torchlight procession ought to start right away."

"They're coming," said Freddie. "If you look sharp you can see them now,
crossing the meadow."

Chirpy Cricket tried to see through the blackness of the night. After
gazing steadily for a few moments he was able to make out a patch of
twinkling lights, which looked a good deal like stars, except that they
were too low. Since they kept growing brighter, Chirpy Cricket knew that
they must be moving towards him, and that many of the Firefly family had
accepted his invitation.

Soon a great host of Freddie's relations surrounded Chirpy Cricket. They
flashed their lights in his eyes, so that he was almost blinded by the
glare. And it was only with much difficulty that he could see Moses
Mosquito, Kiddie Katydid, and Mehitable Moth, who had also arrived by
that time.

"What are we going to do?" everybody asked Chirpy Cricket at the same
time. So there was nothing he could do but mount the wall and make a
speech.

"Friends--" he said, in his loudest voice--"I'm glad to see so many of
you present. Our torchlight procession is going to be an even greater
success than the one that Farmer Green went to see in the village--if
you'll only follow my directions."

"We will!" his listeners cried.

"Please don't ask us to march after dawn breaks, for we'll be ready for
bed by that time," Freddie Firefly interrupted.

"I understand," Chirpy Cricket replied. "And now this is what I want you
all to do: you must fall in line one behind another. And when
everybody's ready I'll take my place at the head of the procession and
lead you all around the farm, and right past Farmer Green's window,
too."

"Forming a line is going to be hard work," somebody objected.

But Chirpy Cricket arranged that matter simply enough.

"Just form your line along the stone wall" he directed them. "The wall
is straight enough. And to tell the truth, that's exactly why I told
Freddie that we'd meet here."

"But what about Moses Mosquito and Kiddie Katydid and Mehitable Moth?"
Freddie inquired somewhat anxiously.

"Well, what about them?" Chirpy asked him. "What do you mean?"

"They haven't brought any lights," Freddie pointed out. "So what's the
use of their being in the procession?"

"Oh, that's all right!" Chirpy Cricket assured him. "They're going to
carry the banners."


VI

THE BANNERS


When Chirpy Cricket mentioned "banners," Mehitable Moth, Kiddie Katydid,
and Moses Mosquito stepped forward with looks of pride on their faces--
so far as one could see their faces by the glimmer of the flashing
lights of the Firefly family. "Dear grandma," she said, "I am sorry
too. I can not feel so bad as you do, because you loved her so much,
and you loved her so long; but _I_ loved her too, and I can think
just how she looked when she sat right there by that little table
talking, and painting those beautiful flowers.

Oh! I am very sorry." And here the poor child's tears flowed again
with mine.

So will all the children who knew her say, "We remember just how she
looked." Yes, there was no mistaking or forgetting that kindly,
loving "look."

Julia's mother had felt its influence from her own early childhood till
she left her precious little one to receive it in her stead.

To each of these half-orphaned ones in turn, I had to read "Little
Susy's Six Birthdays," and both always said to me when I finished,
"Please read it again."

"Here are the banners!" Chirpy Cricket said to Freddie. "Which one do
you like best?"

Freddie looked at the banners and read them slowly, for he was not a
good reader.

The first that he examined was the one Moses Mosquito had brought. And
this is what it said:

WHY FUSS ABOUT A BITE, IF IT MAKES SOMEBODY ELSE HAPPY?

"I don't care for that one at all," Freddie Firefly announced. And he
turned then to Kiddie Katydid's banner, which he spelled out with a good
deal of trouble, because it was not so well printed.

This banner made the following announcement:

HONEST TO GOODNESS, I DIDN'T DO IT!

"Why, I don't know what that's all about!" Freddie exclaimed
impatiently. "Let me see the third one!" So he looked next at the banner
of Mehitable Moth, which seemed to please him better, as he read it
aloud:

DON'T WORRY, MRS. GREEN! I'LL CALL AT THE FARMHOUSE BEFORE FALL.

"That's better!" cried Freddie Firefly. "I'll carry this banner with a
great deal of pleasure. And I can call at the farmhouse to-night--if
Farmer Green's family doesn't go to bed too early."

But there was one difficulty about Freddie's plan. Mehitable Moth did
not like to have her banner, which she had made with great pains, taken
away from her like that. And she drew Chirpy Cricket to one side and
began talking to him in an undertone.

Soon he turned again to Freddie Firefly, saying, "She thinks that if
you're going to carry her banner in the procession you ought to let her
take your light."

"Oh, I can't do that!" Freddie exclaimed quickly. "I wouldn't THINK of
doing that!"

"It would be only fair, it seems to me," Chirpy Cricket observed.

"Well, I won't do it, anyhow," Freddie declared. "I'd stay out of the
procession first. And so would all my relations, too."

Chirpy Cricket began to look worried. And it was no wonder. For he knew
he could have no torchlight procession without the Firefly family. But
pretty soon he cheered up noticeably.

"I know what you can do!" he announced. "You can ride on top of
Mehitable Moth's banner and keep flashing your light on it!"


VII

THE TORCHLIGHT PARADE


At last the torchlight procession was about to begin its march. Chirpy
Cricket took his place at its head, as leader. And close behind him came
Mehitable Moth, gaily bearing her banner aloft, with Freddie Firefly
perched on top of it, and flashing his greenish-white light so that its
rays fell full upon the words, which told Farmer Green's wife not to
worry, because Mehitable Moth agreed to pay her a call before cold
weather set in.

It would be hard to say which was the prouder--the person under the
banner or the one on top of it. Anyhow, Chirpy Cricket was prouder than
both of them together, because his torchlight procession promised to be
a great success.

"Are you ready?" he cried, looking back at the marchers, who stretched
behind him in a long line beside the stone wall.

Everybody shouted "Aye, aye, sir!" So Chirpy Cricket pranced away across
the meadow, wearing a broad smile. Probably he had never before looked
quite so cheerful.

But he had not gone far before something happened that drove the smile
from his face, replacing it with a dark frown. He had glanced behind
him, because he wanted--quite naturally--to look at that long line of
lights twinkling through the night. And to his distress he saw that
Freddie Firefly's relations were flying helter-skelter in all
directions. They had bolted out of the line and were dancing off across
the meadow after a fashion that no torchlight procession ought to
follow.

"Stop! Stop!" Chirpy Cricket called.

Even as he spoke, as many as a dozen lights flashed past him and went
flittering on across the fields.

Really, the only ones besides Chirpy that had stayed in the line as they
should were Mehitable Moth, who still carried her banner right behind
him, and Freddie Firefly, who sat on top of the banner.

And even Freddie Firefly was becoming restless. When he saw his brothers
and cousins go dancing off in the dark he couldn't help wanting to dance
too.

"You'd better hurry!" he said to Chirpy Cricket. "Those fellows--" he
pointed to the dozen that had just passed them--"those fellows have got
ahead of you. And it looks to me very much as if you were out of line."

Chirpy Cricket stared at Freddie Firefly in astonishment.

"Do you think so?" he exclaimed. "I don't see how it happened."

"Neither do I!" Freddie Firefly said. "But if I'm to stay in the
procession I certainly can't sit on this banner any longer. And besides,
if I'm going to call on Farmer Green's wife I shall have to travel
faster than we're moving now."

Since they were then standing stock-still in the meadow, there was a
good deal of truth in what Freddie Firefly said.

"But you don't need to call on Mrs. Green!" Chirpy Cricket cried.
"That's not your banner, you know. It belongs to Mehitable Moth."

"I'm afraid Mrs. Green has heard I'm coming; and I don't want to
disappoint her," Freddie replied.

And then he sprang from his perch and went zigzagging away.

One might think that Chirpy Cricket would have been quite upset by the
breaking up of his torchlight procession. But being naturally cheerful,
he merely smiled and said that it was plain that the Fireflies were a
very flighty family.


VIII

BUSTER'S SCHEME


About the time summer was half gone, Buster Bumblebee's mother, the
Queen, began to worry. She was afraid her workers were not going to make
enough honey for her family's needs.

Then came a few days of steady rain, when the workers of the Bumblebee
family couldn't venture away from home, on account of getting their
wings wet. And of course the Queen was terribly upset.

"I don't know what to do!" she kept exclaiming. "The days are already
growing shorter. It's a pity the honeymakers can't work in the dark."

Buster Bumblebee happened to hear his mother talking in that fashion
with some of the older members of the family. And he spoke up at once
and said:

"I know of a plan that might help."

Nobody paid the slightest attention to his remark, because the whole
family thought that Buster was not only fat and lazy, but somewhat
stupid as well.

"I know of something you could do that would help," he persisted, in a
much louder voice. "The honey-makers could work after dark if you'd only
get the Firefly family to furnish lights for them."

A number of Buster's relations snickered when they heard his plan. It
struck them as being too silly for anything. But his mother, the Queen,
looked very thoughtful.

"I'm not sure but that this boy has a good idea," she observed, much to
the surprise of the others. "For a long time I've been waiting for him
to say something worth listening to. And now I do believe he has had a
happy thought at last." She turned to Buster. "How did you chance upon
this scheme?" she asked him.

"Oh, the notion just came to me. I didn't have to WORK, to think of it,"
Buster explained. And he wondered why everybody laughed.

You know, Buster Bumblebee was so lazy that he never would lift a finger
to do a stroke of work. And now the word "work" had a very funny sound,
coming from his mouth.

"How could we get the Firefly family to help us? Have you thought of a
way to do that?" Buster's mother said to her son.

"N-no, I haven't," he admitted. "But I'd go straight to Freddie Firefly
and tell him what's wanted."

"Suppose you do that, then," said the Queen.

"You wouldn't call that WORKING, would you?" Buster inquired anxiously.
Having long since promised himself that he would never work, of course
he didn't want to break his word.

His relations--that is, except his mother--couldn't help tittering when
Buster said that. But to tell the truth, they were beginning to be the
least bit jealous of Buster Bumblebee and his plan. When the Queen
frowned at them severely, each of them tried to look as if it had been
somebody else that laughed.

Then the Queen assured Buster that paying a call on a person couldn't be
said to be work.

"You go and talk with Freddie Firefly," she directed him, "and if your
plan proves to be a success, it will then be your turn to laugh at
others."


IX

FREDDIE'S PROMISE


Buster Bumblebee did not find Freddie Firefly very easily. It was a
sunny afternoon; and if Freddie was flashing his bright light, Buster
was unable to see it. But at last he spied Freddie eating a meal of
pollen in the meadow.

"How would you like to work for my mother, the Queen?" Buster asked him.

"I don't believe I'd care to, thank you," Freddie Firefly answered, with
a mouth so full of food that Buster heard him only with great
difficulty.

"I'll wait a moment, until you have finished your lunch," said Buster.

"You'd better not!" Freddie Firefly told him. "It will be dark by that
time. And Chirpy Cricket tells me your family always goes to bed at
sunset."

"So we do!" Buster agreed. "But my mother, the Queen, is going to order
her honey-makers to work overtime for the present. And she wants you and
your family to furnish lights so they can see what they're doing." "Oh!
That's different!" Freddie Firefly exclaimed. "I thought she wanted me
to help make honey. And that's something I know nothing about. ... But
when it comes to furnishing a light, I'm certainly a shining success."
Freddie then laughed heartily. And much to his surprise, Buster
Bumblebee gave him several hard slaps on the back, which hurt him not a
little.

"Don't do that!" Freddie Firefly cried.

"I thought you were choking," Buster, explained.

Freddie Firefly shook his head.

"I was joking," he said.

"Well, I didn't make much of a mistake; for joking and choking sound
about the same," Buster Bumblebee replied.

"I hope your mother's honey-makers can tell the difference," Freddie
Firefly grumbled. "If they can't, I certainly don't care to spend a
night in their company."

"Oh, you won't have any trouble with them. They'll be working so busily
that they'll hardly notice you," Buster Bumblebee assured him.

So Freddie Firefly promised to be at the house of the Bumblebee family,
in the meadow, at dusk. And he said he would try to bring plenty of his
relations with him, so that there might be one of them to light the way
for each of the honey-makers.

And then Buster Bumblebee hurried away to tell his mother the news.

The Queen praised Buster for what he had done, telling him that in her
opinion he would soon be the wisest person in Pleasant Valley--not even
excepting old Mr. Crow and Solomon Owl.

Buster was so pleased that he made up his mind to stay awake that
evening, in order to see the workers start out for the clover field
after dark with Freddie Firefly and his relations. But when sunset came,
Buster simply couldn't keep from falling asleep.

Not until the next morning did he know how his plan had turned out. And
since it proved to be less successful than he had expected, perhaps it
was just as well that he was not present to hear the remarks that were
made about him.

Even Freddie Firefly said things about Buster that night that would not
have been at all pleasant to listen to.


X

DRAWING LOTS


Buster Bumblebee's mother told her forty-nine honey-makers that Freddie
Firefly and at least forty-eight of his relations were expected at the
Bumblebees' house at dusk.

"Each of the Fireflies will furnish each of you with a light," the Queen
explained, "so you'll be able to go to the clover field almost as easily
as you do in the daytime. You're to work until midnight. And after that
you may sleep until the trumpeter wakes you at dawn."

The Queen's announcement did not please the honey-makers in the least.
They were an ill-tempered lot, anyhow. And when things did not go to
suit them they sometimes made themselves most disagreeable.

Of course they didn't dare grumble in the Queen's hearing. But behind
her back they spoke their minds quite freely.

"It's all the fault of that boy Buster," they told one another. "If he
hadn't suggested his horrid plan to his mother we wouldn't have to work
half the night and lose half our sleep."

"I wish he was here now!" one of the honey-makers exclaimed fiercely.
"I'd make it hot for him!"

Usually the honey-makers began to grow very drowsy at that time of day
(it was then late in the afternoon). But now they were so angry that
they were not the least bit sleepy. Their own buzzing kept them awake.
And the Queen was glad that it was so, because she herself never could
have stopped so many of them from going to sleep. And even then, if the
truth must be known, the Queen wished that she might go to bed. Never in
all her life had she been up so late before.

"I wish the Fireflies would hurry!" she exclaimed as she stood at the
front-door of her house and looked across the fast darkening field.

As she watched anxiously, the Queen soon spied a light, which kept
growing brighter and brighter, until at last Freddie Firefly dropped
down before her. He took off his cap and made a low bow.

"Here I am, Queen!" he said.

"Where's the rest of your family?" Buster Bumblebee's mother asked him.

"They all had to go to a dance down by the swamp," Freddie Firefly
explained. "They wanted me to go with them; but I had promised your son
that I'd be here at dusk. And of course I wouldn't think of breaking my
promise."

Well, the Queen was terribly disappointed.

"You never can furnish enough light for my forty-nine workers!" she
cried.

"Perhaps not!" Freddie admitted. "But I'd be glad to take one of them to
the clover-patch to-night, just as a trial, you know."

The Queen said that that was a good idea. And the honey-makers, who had
come outside the house, all agreed that it was a fine suggestion. But
not one of them wanted to go with Freddie.

"Then you'll have to draw lots," the Queen told them severely.

When the honey-makers heard that, one of them tried to slip away. But
the Queen saw her and called her back.

Then they drew lots. And strange to say, the worker who had tried to
escape proved to be the unlucky one who was doomed to go to the clover
field with Freddie Firefly and gather clover nectar until midnight.

Unluckily for Freddie, she was the worst-tempered person in the whole
Bumblebee household. And when she saw that she alone of the whole family
was going to lose half her night's sleep you may be sure she felt very
surly.

Freddie noticed a wicked gleam in her eyes. And he began to wish he had
gone to the dance over near the swamp.


XI

PEPPERY POLLY


Freddie Firefly felt quite uncomfortable as he started off toward the
clover field, together with the angry honey-maker. It had not made him
feel any more at ease when the Queen of the Bumblebees told him the
worker's name. It was Peppery Polly.

"Don't go too fast!" Peppery Polly told Freddie Firefly. "And I'll tell
you now that I'll make it warm for you if you try to play any tricks on
me to-night."

As a matter of fact, Freddie hadn't thought of such a thing as playing a
single trick on her. But Peppery Polly's warning at once put that very
idea into his head. So he began to try to think of a good joke that
would bother her. And before they had crossed the meadow Freddie Firefly
turned to Peppery Polly Bumblebee and said:

"That light off there must be in the farmhouse."

Now, never having been out at night before, his companion wanted to see
all the strange sights. So she stopped at once and looked around.

"How bright the light is!" she said. "Are you sure the farmhouse isn't
on fire?"

Not receiving any answer, she turned her head. And to her dismay, she
couldn't see Freddie Firefly anywhere.

"Oh! Oh! Where are you?" she cried. She was terribly frightened to be
left alone in the dark. "Come back--please come back!" she begged.

"Why, here I am!" said Freddie Firefly.

And wheeling about quickly, Peppery Polly found him clinging to a blade
of grass right behind her.

Freddie had been hiding under a plantain leaf, so that she couldn't see
his light. But Peppery Polly didn't know what had happened.

"Did your light go out?" she inquired anxiously.

"If it did, I never noticed it," he replied.

"Well, don't you dare to leave me alone, no matter what happens!"
Peppery Polly Bumblebee cried. "If you did, I'd never be able to find my
way home in the dark."

"Don't worry!" Freddie said. "You're perfectly safe with me. ... What
I'm wondering is whether I'm perfectly safe with you."

"You are--so long as you behave yourself," she declared. "But remember!
I'll make it hot for you if you try any tricks on me! Don't forget that
I carry a sting! And what's more, I know how to use it."

Her threat, however, failed to frighten Freddie Firefly. As soon as he
saw that his companion was afraid of the dark, he ceased to be afraid of
her. So he flashed his light impudently in her eyes.

"Come on!" he urged her with a grin which she could not see. "Let's get
to the clover field, for I like to see people work."

"You do, eh? "snapped Peppery Polly.

"Yes! Watching others work is play for me," he remarked cheerfully. "And
I hope to have as much fun to-night as I would have had if I'd gone to
the dance over near the swamp."

"Are you fond of music?" Peppery Polly asked him suddenly.

"Am I?" he exclaimed. "I should say I was!"

"Then tell me how you like this," she said. And she began to sing the
most terrible song that Freddie Firefly had ever heard in all his life.


XII

A TERRIBLE SONG


It was no wonder that Freddie Firefly grew uneasy again as he listened
to the song of Peppery Polly Bumblebee, while they flew towards the
clover field through the darkness. The chorus, especially, filled him
with alarm. And he shuddered as the disagreeable honey-maker sang it:

 "I've never learned to take a joke;
    So if you try to trick me,
  My sting in you I'll quickly poke--
    You'll find that it will prick ye!
  It feels like fire--though twice as hot.
  And I would rather sting than not!"

"How do you like that?" Peppery Polly inquired, after she had finished
her song.

"You have a beautiful voice," Freddie Firefly hastened to tell her.

"Yes--of course!" she agreed. "But I refer to the words. What do you
think of them?"

"I think they're awful!" Freddie Firefly cried; for his companion had
scared the truth out of him before he stopped to think how it would
sound.

"Quite right!" said Peppery Polly. "I made up that song. And I flatter
myself it's about the worst I ever heard." To Freddie Firefly's relief,
she seemed quite pleased.

He was able to draw a deep breath again as they reached the field of red
clover, where Peppery Polly Bumblebee settled quickly upon a clover-top
and began sucking up the sweet nectar with her long tongue. For some
time she worked busily without saying a word. And indeed, how could she
have spoken with her tongue buried deep in the heart of a clover
blossom?

But when she withdrew her tongue and flitted from one clover-top to
another, she never failed to fix her wicked eyes on Freddie Firefly and
demand "more light--and be quick about it!"

Since no harm had yet fallen him, he began to wonder after a while if
Peppery Polly's bark was not worse than her bite--or perhaps it would be
better to say that he wondered if her song was not worse than her sting.
Anyhow, he knew that he was very tired of her masterful way of speaking
to him. And he soon determined to play another trick on her.

"Here's a big blossom you haven't tasted!" he called to her suddenly.
And Peppery Polly--thinking that Freddie meant a clover blossom--
hastened to a bloom that Freddie pointed out to her.

She settled upon it quickly. And the next moment Peppery Polly gave a
sharp cry of mingled rage and pain.

"What's the matter?" Freddie Firefly asked her.

"Matter!" she exclaimed. "It's a thistle--and I've pricked myself
badly."

"Why, so it is a thistle blossom!" said Freddie Firefly. "It's about the
same color as a clover head; and I suppose you didn't know the
difference in the dark."

"The question is, did YOU know the difference?" Peppery Polly screamed--
for she was terribly angry.

"Really, I must decline to answer when you speak to me in such a tone,"
said Freddie Firefly. And he was quite surprised that the furious honey-
maker didn't dart towards him and try to sink her sting into him.

But nothing of the sort happened. And Freddie soon saw that Peppery
Polly was in some kind of trouble.


XIII

CAUGHT BY A THISTLE


"You'll have to help me," Peppery Polly Bumblebee said to Freddie
Firefly through the darkness. "If you'd been a little less stingy with
that light of yours I wouldn't have made the mistake of thinking this
thistle was a clover blossom."

"Well, there's nectar in it, isn't there?" he inquired.

"I suppose so," she answered. "But I can't get it. And I'm so daubed
with the sticky stuff that's spread right where I put my feet that I
can't free myself."

Freddie flew quite close to her and flashed his light upon her. And he
saw that she had spoken truly.

"What a pity!" he exclaimed.

"Don't stop to talk!" the honey-maker snapped. "Just help me to get away
from this thistle. And THEN you can talk all you want to. In fact, I'll
give you something to talk about."

Freddie Firefly was not so dull-witted but that he knew she intended to
punish him for sending her to the thistle blossom.

"I'll go back to your house and bring somebody to help you, if I can,"
he said. "Don't you see that it wouldn't be safe for me to try to pull
you loose? I might get stuck there myself. And we'd be prisoners for the
rest of the night."

Peppery Polly hadn't thought of that. And she was inclined to believe
that there might be some such danger.

"You may go for help," she said at last. "But please remember that
there's no time to lose. The Queen won't like it at all when she hears
about this accident, for she expected me to fetch home a good deal of
nectar before midnight."

"I'll hurry. And I'll be back as soon as I can bring one of your fellow-
workers with me," Freddie Firefly promised.

Since he was a person of his word, he went straight back to the home of
the Bumblebee family in the meadow. Being used to finding his way about
after dark, Freddie had no trouble reaching the Bumblebees' home. But
rousing the household was an entirely different matter. Though he
pounded his hardest at their door, none of the Bumblebee family heard
him. Having always slept from sunset till dawn without once waking, they
were wrapped in such heavy slumber that not one of them knew what was
going on.

To be sure, the family trumpeter--who awakened the household each
morning and was a somewhat lighter sleeper than the others--the
trumpeter claimed afterward that she DREAMED that she heard somebody at
the door that night. But that was all the good that came of Freddie
Firefly's efforts.

After trying his best to rouse Peppery Polly's people, Freddie Firefly
at last grew discouraged. He saw that the Bumblebee family was bound to
sleep until dawn came, no matter what happened.

He reflected, then, that there were two things he could do. He could go
back alone to the clover field and try to set that ill-tempered worker
free--and no doubt get stung by her for his pains. Or he could go to the
dance of the Fireflies over near the swamp, and have a delightful time.

"Let me see!" Freddie mused aloud. "I promised Peppery Polly that I'd
come back with one of her own people--IF _I_ COULD. And since I can't do
that, I ought not to go back to the clover-patch at all. For if I did,
it would be about the same as breaking a promise. ... No! I'll go to the
dance instead!" And away he flew.

Luckily the dance was not half finished when he reached it. And he had
such a pleasant time that he forgot all about that Bumblebee worker,
stuck fast to the thistle blossom.

But you may be sure that Peppery Polly did not forget him. After her
friends set her free the following morning she spent the whole day
looking for Freddie Firefly.

But he lay very low. And all the rest of the summer he shunned the
clover field--and the flower garden, too.


XIV

JENNIE JUNEBUG


On the day--or rather, on the night--when he first met Jennie Junebug,
Freddie Firefly was ill at ease. In fact it might be truthfully said
that he was quite upset.

One beautiful, warm, dark night early in the summer Freddie was hurrying
to join a big family party which was already gathering in the hollow
beyond the hill.

He was scooting along through the damp air, flashing his light at the
rate of about thirty-six times a minute, when a heavy body bumped into
him and knocked him head over heels upon the grass-carpeted ground.

It was no wonder that he felt upset. And he felt quite peevish, too, as
he picked himself up and looked about him to see what had happened.

The next moment he was flashing his light into the blinking eyes of an
enormous fat person, who seemed to be dazed, either by the shock of the
collision or by the light--Freddie Firefly couldn't tell which.

"Why don't you look where you're going?" Freddie cried impatiently. "You
knocked the breath out of me. And you almost broke one of my legs." The
next instant he was heartily ashamed of himself; for he saw, to his
surprise, that he was talking to a lady. "Oh! I beg your pardon!" he
cried. "Ex--excuse me! I hope you're not seriously injured?"

"Oh, no!" wheezed the fat lady. "I'm all right. It's no matter, I assure
you. I'm quite used to running into things after dark."

Freddie Firefly didn't quite like being referred to as a THING. But he
was too polite to say so.

"You ought to be careful," he told the strange fat lady. "It's dangerous
for one of your weight--"

"Oh, don't!" she exclaimed quickly. "PLEASE don't tell me I'm fat! I've
tried every remedy I know and I can't lose a single pound!"

"Don't you think that flying makes you thinner?" Freddie Firefly asked
her.

But the stout person shook her head dolefully.

"It only seems to make me bigger," she groaned.

"Then why do you do it?"

"Oh, I just adore flying!" she cried. "Don't you?"

Freddie Firefly admitted that he did like to fly. And he was sorry, the
next moment, that he had made such a statement. For the fat lady blinked
happily at him. And clasping her hands together, she said:

"Oh, do let's fly together, then!"

Freddie Firefly was so taken aback that at first he couldn't think what
to say. But at last he managed to stammer a reply.

"Why--why--I--I'll be glad to, but I don't even know your name!" he told
her.

"It's Jennie Junebug," she explained, as she fanned herself with a fan
made from a white clover leaf.

"You're a newcomer in these parts, aren't you?" Freddie Firefly
inquired.

"I just arrived here this month," she informed him. "This is the month
of June, you know. And I'm one of the well-known Junebug family. ... I
already know who you are," she continued. "You've been pointed out to
me. You are Freddie Firefly; and you can't deny it."


XV

THE FAT LADY'S SECRET


Somehow, the longer Freddie Firefly talked with Jennie Junebug, the more
he wished that he might fly off and leave her there in the meadow. But
he had just the same as told her that he would be glad to fly with her.
And he really didn't see how he could escape that unpleasant duty.

"Well, we may as well move on," he said at last. "Where were you going
when we ran into each other?"

"Oh, nowhere in particular!" she answered. "Where were YOU going?"

Freddie Firefly had to bite his lip to keep from telling her that he had
been on his way to a family party in the hollow beyond the hill. He
certainly didn't want to go there in the company of that strange fat
lady.

"I WAS going over the hill," he faltered at last. "But I'd rather stay
here in the meadow with you."

"How nice of you to say that!" Jennie Junebug murmured. "And now let's
begin flying at once!" she said.

So they rose into the air. But they hadn't flown more than a few feet
when Jennie once more banged squarely into her companion.

It was a terrific blow. And Freddie Firefly soon found himself lying
flat on the ground. He was so nearly stunned that he scarcely knew what
had happened.

"What fun!" the fat lady gurgled right in his ear, with a horrible
laugh. "Come! Let's do it again!"

"Do it again!" Freddie Firefly repeated after her, as a sudden fear
gripped him. "Do you mean to tell me that you ran into me ON PURPOSE?"
"Why, certainly!" she replied. "Running into a light is more than half
the fun of flying."

Her terrible secret was out at last. If Freddie Firefly had been older
and wiser he would have known, in the beginning, that his first
collision with the fat lady was no accident. The whole Junebug family
were alike in one respect: preferring to fly at night, whenever they saw
a light anywhere they made straight for it as fast as they could fly.
Sometimes they landed with a crash against one of the farmhouse windows.
Sometimes they struck the lantern, if Farmer Green happened to be
carrying it across the farmyard. It really made little difference to a
Junebug what he--or she--hit, so long as it gleamed brightly out of the
night.

Well, Freddie Firefly saw at last that he was in a terrible fix. He knew
now why Jennie Junebug had asked him to fly with her. It was on account
of his flashing light! And the dreadful creature actually expected him
to fly for her so that she might have the pleasure of bowling him over
every time he rose into the air.

Such a practice was disagreeable, to say the least. Indeed, Freddie
Firefly thought it was positively dangerous, for him.

"Come! Come!" Jennie Junebug urged him playfully, even while he lay on
the ground trying to get his breath. "If you don't hurry and fly some
more I shall knock you over right where you are!"

Freddie Firefly answered her with a faint moan. He couldn't run away
from her. So he thought of hiding. But he had promised to fly with her.
And she was a lady.

What could he do?


We went strawberrying yesterday, all of us, and the way she was
poked through bars and lifted over stone-walls would have amused you.

She is already quite sunburnt; but I think she is looking sweetly.

I find myself all the time peeping out of the window, thinking every step
is yours, or that every wagon holds a letter for me.

_To Miss A. H.

Woolsey, Westport, June 27._

Mr. P. enclosed your kind note in one of his own, after first reading
it himself, if you ever heard of such a man. I had to laugh all alone
while reading it, which was not a little provoking. We are having
very nice times here indeed.

Breakfast at eight, dinner at half-past twelve, and tea at half-past
six, giving us an afternoon of unprecedented length for such lounging,
strawberrying or egg-hunting as happens to be on the carpet. The air is
perfectly loaded with the fragrance of clover blossoms and fresh
hay.

I never saw such clover in my life; roses are nothing in comparison.

I only want an old nag and a wagon, so as to drive a load of children
about these lovely regions, and that I hope every moment to attain. To
be sure, it would be amazingly convenient if I had a table, and
didn't have to sit on the floor to write upon a trunk; but then one
can't have everything, and I am almost too comfortable with what I
have.

A. is busy reading Southey to her "children"; baby is off searching
for eggs, and her felicity reached its height when she found an
ambitious hen had laid two in her carriage, which little thought
what it was coming to the country for.

I think the dear child already looks better; she lives in the open air
and enjoys everything.

Mrs. Buck lives about half a mile below us, and we run back and forth many
times a day. I have already caught the country fashion of rushing to the
windows the moment a wheel or an opening gate is heard.

I fancy everybody is bringing me a letter or else want to send one to the
office, and the only way to do that is to scream at passers-by and ask
them if they are going that way. If you hear that I am often seen driving
a flock of geese down the road, or climbing stone walls, or creeping
through bar fences, you needn't believe a word of it, for I am a pattern
of propriety, and pride myself on my dignity.

I hope, now you have begun so charmingly, that you will write again.
You know what letters are in the country.

_To her Husband, Westport, June 27._
I wonder where you are this lovely morning? Having a nice time somewhere,
I do hope, for it is too fine a day to be lost.

If you want to know where I am, why I'm sitting at the window writing
on a trunk that I have just lifted into a chair, in order to make
a table.

For table there, is none in this room, and how am I to write a book
without one?

If ever I get down to the village, I hope to buy, beg, borrow or steal
one, and until that time am putting off beginning my new Little Susy.
[7] That note from Miss Warner, by the by, spoke so enthusiastically
of the Six Teachers that I felt compensated for the mortification
of hearing -------- call it a "nice" book.

You will be sorry to hear that I have no prospect of getting a horse. I
am quite disappointed, as besides the pleasure of driving our children,
I hoped to give Mrs.

Buck and the boys a share in it. Only to think of her bringing up from
the city a beefsteak for baby, and proposing that the doctor should
send a small piece for her every day!

Thank you, darling, for your proposal about the Ocean House. I trust no
such change will be needful.

We are all comfortable now, the weather is delicious, and there are so
many pretty walks about here, that I am only afraid I shall be too
well off.

Everything about the country is charming to me, and I never get tired of
it. The first few days nurse seemed a good deal out of sorts; but I must
expect some such little vexations; of course, I can not have perfection,
and for dear baby's sake I shall try to exercise all the prudence and
forbearance I can.

_Sunday._--We went to church this morning and heard a most instructive
and, I thought, superior sermon from Mr. Burr of Weston, on progress
in religious knowledge. He used the very illustration about the cavern
and the point of light that you did.

_July 7th.

_--We all drove to the beach on Saturday.

It was just the very day for such a trip, and baby was enchanted. She
sat right down and began to gather stones and shells, as if she had
the week before her.

We were gone three hours and came home by way of the village, quite in
the mood for supper. Yesterday we had a pleasant service; Mr.

Atkinson appears to be a truly devout, heavenly man to whom I felt
my heart knit at the outset on this account, I am taking great
delight in reading the Memoir of Miss Allibone. [8] How I wish I
had a friend of so heavenly a temper!

I fear my new Little Susy will come out at the little end of the horn. I
am sure it won't be so good as the others.

It is more than one quarter done.

_July 21st.

_--What do you think I did this forenoon?

Why, I finished Little Susy and shall lay it aside for some days, when I
shall read it over, correct, and pack it off out of the way.

Yes, I wish you would bring my German Hymn Book. I am so glad you liked
the hymns I had marked!

[9] And do get well so as not to have to leave off preaching the
Gospel.

My heart dies within me whenever I think of your leaving the ministry.

Every day I live, it appears to me that the office of a Christian
pastor and teacher is the best in the world.

I shall not be able to write you a word to-morrow, as we are to go to
Greenfield Hill to Miss Murray's, and you must take to-morrow's
love to-night--if you think you can stand so much at once.

God be with you and bless you.

_July 30th._--Baby and I have just been having a great frolic. She was
so pleased with your message that she caught up your letter and
kissed it, which I think very remarkable in a child who, I am sure,
never saw such a thing done.

A. seems well and happy, and is as good as I think we ought to expect.
I see more and more every day, that if there ever _was_ such a thing
as human perfection, it was as long ago as David's time when, as he
says, he saw the "end" of it.

How very kind the W.'s have been!

_August 3d._--I got hold of Dr. Boardman's "Bible in the Family," at
the Bucks yesterday, and brought it home to read. I like it very
much. There is a vein of humor running through it which, subdued as it
is, must have awakened a good many smiles. He quotes some lines of
Coleridge, which I wonder I did not have as a motto for Susy's
Teachers:
Love, Hope and Patience, these must be thy graces, And in thine own
heart let them first _keep school_.

_To Miss Mary B. Shipman, Westport, August 11._

Dr. Buck, who has seen her twice since we came here, thinks baby
wonderfully improved, and says every day she lives increases her
chance of life.

I have been exceedingly encouraged by all he has said, and feel a great
load off my heart.

Last Friday, on fifteen minutes' notice, I packed up and went _home_,
taking nurse and biddies, of course.

I was so restless and so perfectly _possessed_ to go to meet George, that
I could not help it. We went in the six o'clock train, as it was after
five when I was "taken" with the fit that started me off; got
home in a soft rain, and to our great surprise and delight found
G. there, he having got homesick at Saratoga, and just rushed to
New York on his way here.

We had a great rejoicing together, you may depend, and I had a charming
visit of nearly three days.

We got back on Monday night, rather tired, but none of us at all the
worse for the expedition. Mr.

P. sits here reading the Tribune, and A. is reading "Fremont's Life."

She is as brown as an Indian and about as wild.

A few passages from her journal will also throw light upon this
period:

_June 30th._--I am finding this solitude and leisure very sweet and
precious; God grant it may bear the rich and abundant fruit it ought
to do! Communion with Him is such a blessing, here at home in my own
room, and out in the silent woods and on the wayside.

Saturday, especially, I had a long walk full of blissful thoughts of Him
whom I do believe I love--oh, that I loved Him better!--and in the
evening Mrs. Buck came and we had some very sweet beginnings of what
will, I trust, ripen into most profitable Christian communion.

My heart delights in the society of those who love Him. Yesterday I
had a more near access to God in prayer than usual, so that during the
whole service at church I could hardly repress tears of joy and
gratitude.

_July 7th._--I do trust God's blessed, blessed Spirit is dealing
faithfully with my soul--searching and sifting it, revealing it
somewhat to itself and preparing it for the indwelling of Christ.

This I do heartily desire. Oh, God! search me and know me, and show me my
own guilty, poor, meagre soul, that I may turn from it, humbled and
ashamed and penitent, to my blessed Saviour. How very, very thankful
I feel for this seclusion and leisure; this quiet room where I can
seek my God and pray and praise, unseen by any human eye--and which
sometimes seems like the very gate of heaven.

_July 23d._--This is my dear little baby's birthday.

I was not able to sleep last night at all, but at last got up and prayed
specially for her. God has spared her two years; I can hardly believe it!
Precious years of discipline they have been, for which I do thank Him.
I have prayed much for her to-day, and with some faith, that if
her life is spared it will be for His glory.

How far rather would I let her go this moment, than grow up without loving
Him! Precious little creature!

_27th._--This has been one of the most oppressive days I ever knew. I went
to church, however, and enjoyed all the services unusually.

As we rode along and I saw the grain ripe for the harvest, I said to
myself, "God gathers in _His_ harvest as soon as it is ripe, and
if I devote myself to Him and pray much and turn entirely from the
world I shall ripen, and so the sooner get where I am _all the time_
yearning and longing to go!"

I fear this was a merely selfish thought, but I do not know.

This world seems less and less homelike every day I live. The more I
pray and meditate on heaven and my Saviour and saints who have crossed
the flood, the stronger grows my desire to be bidden to depart hence and
go up to that sinless, blessed abode.

Not that I forget my comforts, my mercies here; they are _manifold_; I
know they are.

But Christ appears so precious; sin so dreadful!

so dreadful! To-day I gave way to pride and irritation, and my agony
on account of it outweighs weeks of merely earthly felicity.

The idea of a Christian as he should be, and the reality of most
Christians--particularly myself--why, it almost makes me shudder;
my only comfort is, in heaven, I _can_ not sin!

In heaven I shall see Christ, and see Him as He is, and praise and honor
Him as I never do and never shall do here. And yet I know my dear
little ones need me, poor and imperfect a mother as I am; and I
pray every hour to be made willing to wait for their sakes.

For at the longest it will not be long. Oh, I do believe it is the
_sin_ I dread and not the suffering of life--but I know not; I may
be deluded.

My love to my Master seems to me very shallow and contemptible.

I am astonished that I love anything else.

Oh, that He would this moment come down into this room and tell me I never,
never, shall grieve Him again!

Some verses entitled "Alone with God," belong here:

Into my closet fleeing, as the dove Doth homeward flee, I haste away to
ponder o'er Thy love Alone with Thee!

In the dim wood, by human ear unheard, Joyous and free, Lord! I adore
Thee, feasting on Thy word, Alone with Thee!

Amid the busy city, thronged and gay, But One I see, Tasting sweet
peace, as unobserved I pray Alone with Thee!

Oh, sweetest life! Life hid with Christ in God!
So making me At home, and by the wayside, and abroad, Alone with
Thee!

WESTPORT, _August 22, 1856._
* * * * *
V.

Ready for new Trials.

Dangerous Illness. Extracts from her Journal.
Visit to Greenwood. Sabbath Meditations. Birth of another Son. Her Husband
resigns his pastoral Charge. Voyage to Europe.

The summer at Westport was so beneficial to the baby and so full
both of bodily and spiritual refreshment to herself, that on returning
to town, she resumed her home tasks with unwonted ease and comfort.

The next entry in her journal alludes to this:

_November 27th_.--Two months, and not a word in my journal! I have done
far more with my needle and my feet than with my pen. One comes home
from the country to a good many cares, and they are worldly cares,
too, about eating and about wearing.

I hope the worst of mine are over now and that I shall have more leisure.
But no, I forget that now comes the dreaded, dreaded experience
of weaning baby. But what then? I have had a good rest this fall.

Have slept unusually well; why, only think, some nights not waking once--and
some nights only a few times; and then we have had no sickness; baby
better--all better. Now I ought to be willing to have the trials I need
so much, seeing I have had such a rest. And heaven! heaven!

let me rest on that precious word. Heaven is at the end and God is
there.

Early in March, 1857, she was taken very ill and continued so until
May.

For some weeks her recovery seemed hardly possible. She felt assured
her hour had come and was eager to go. All the yearnings of her heart,
during many years, seemed on the point of being gratified. The next
entry in her journal refers to this illness:
_Sunday, May 24th, 1857.

_--Just reading over the last record how ashamed I felt of my faithlessness!
To see dear baby so improved by the very change I dreaded, and to
hear her pretty, cheerful prattle, and to find in her such a source
of joy and comfort--what undeserved, what unlooked-for mercies!

But like a physician who changes his remedies as he sees occasion, and
who forbears using all his severe ones at once, my Father first relieved
me from my wearing care and pain about this dear child, and then
put me under new discipline.

It is now nearly six months since I have been in usual health, and eight
weeks of great prostration and suffering have been teaching me
many needed lessons.

Now, contrary to my hopes and expectations, I find myself almost well
again.

At first, having got my heart _set_ toward heaven and after fancying
myself almost there, I felt disappointed to find its gates still shut
against me. [10]
But God was very good to me and taught me to yield in this point
to His wiser and better will; He made me, as far as I know, as
peaceful in the prospect of living as joyful in the prospect of
dying.

Heaven did, indeed, look very attractive when I thought myself so near
it; I pictured myself as no longer a sinner but a blood-washed
saint; I thought I shall soon see Him whom my soul loveth, and see
Him as He is; I shall never wound, never grieve Him again, and all
my companions will be they who worship Him and adore Him.

"I was thinking. That's why I
didn't reply sooner. Probably you don't know that I have helped many
youngsters to begin to work. For instance, it was I that told Daddy
Longlegs to help Farmer Green with his harvesting." Little Mrs. Ladybug
felt so proud of herself that she dropped a stitch without noticing it.

"Daddy Longlegs! HE'S not young!" Freddie Firefly exclaimed.

"Oh! yes, he is! He's not so old as you think," Mrs. Ladybug replied.
"He's just about your age. And if he can work, you certainly can."

"But I didn't know that Daddy Longlegs was working for Farmer Green,"
Freddie Firefly said.

"He tried to, one day. But the wind blew too hard. ... It wasn't really
Daddy's fault," Mrs. Ladybug explained. "And you ought not to attempt to
work on windy nights, either," she went on. "For your light might go
out, and then there'd be a terrible accident."


XXI

ALL ABOUT TRAINS


"What do you mean?" Freddie Firefly asked little Mrs. Ladybug. "What
accident could happen if the wind blew out my light?" And he laughed
very hard, because he knew that no gale was strong enough even to dim
his greenish-white gleams.

"Why," replied Mrs. Ladybug, "the train would strike you and be wrecked.
You see," she continued, "I have everything planned for you. You're
going to spend your nights on the railroad tracks, signalling the
trains."

Well, Freddie Firefly rather liked Mrs. Ladybug's idea. And though he
knew that she was mistaken about some things, he began to think that
perhaps she was quite wise, after all.

"Aren't you afraid I might set fire to the trains?" he inquired slyly.

"No, indeed!" she answered. "You'd stop them, you know, before they ran
over you."

"But I don't know how to make a train stop," he objected. "I've never
worked on a railroad in all my life."

"Why, it's simple enough," said little Mrs. Ladybug. "When a train came
along you would stand on the track right in front of it and wave your
light." And while she smiled at Freddie Firefly as if to say, "You see
how easy it is," she dropped six more stitches out of her knitting--and
never found them, either.

Freddie Firefly, however, did not smile at all. On the contrary, he
looked somewhat worried.

"Are you sure it's safe?" he asked her. "If the train failed to stop,
with me on the track in front of it--"

"Don't worry about that!" cried little Mrs. Ladybug. "You'll never
amount to anything if you worry. And if you don't wish to fritter away
your time dancing in this meadow, you'll take my advice and begin to
work at once."

"I'll think about the matter," said Freddie Firefly. And then he added
somewhat doubtfully: "It's a long way to the railroad."

"Pooh!" Mrs. Ladybug exclaimed. "Old Mr. Crow often visits it. And if he
can fly that far, at his age, a youngster like you ought not to mind the
trip."

"Perhaps you know best," Freddie Firefly told Mrs. Ladybug at last.
"I'll take your advice just this once, and I'll see how I like the work.
But there's another question I'd like to ask you: What will the trains
do after they stop?"

While laughing over Freddie's question Mrs. Ladybug shook so hard that
she unravelled sixteen rows of her knitting before she could stop.

"Bless you!" she cried, as soon as she could speak. "I don't know what
the trains will do. That's their affair--not yours nor mine. Everybody's
aware that trains are made for two purposes--to start and to stop. But I
never should think of being so rude as to ask them WHY, or WHAT, or
WHEN, or WHERE."

So Freddie Firefly thanked Mrs. Ladybug most politely. He was sure, now,
that she was one of the wisest persons in the whole valley. No doubt, he
thought, she knew almost as much as old Mr. Crow, or even Solomon Owl.
And he wished he knew half what she did.

"I'll start for the railroad track at once," Freddie told Mrs. Ladybug.
And waving his cap at her, while she waved her knitting at him, he set
forth towards the village, the lights of which twinkled dimly in the
distance.


XXII

WORK ON THE RAILROAD


Freddie Firefly did not intend to go into the village itself. He
expected to travel only as far as the railroad tracks, where they curved
around a bend in the river before stretching straight away towards the
town.

Though he spent a much longer time in making the journey than old Mr.
Crow ever took, Freddie at last reached the railroad, where he promptly
sat himself down between the rails to wait for a train. And there
Freddie Firefly stayed all alone, in the dark, with nothing to keep from
feeling forlorn except the croaking of a band of noisy frogs in a pool
near-by.

After a while Freddie began to grow so weary of his new task that he
wished he had never taken Mrs. Ladybug's advice.

"I don't believe I like working," he said with a sigh, as he thought of
the good time his family was having at that very moment, dancing in
Farmer Green's meadow.

And then all at once he heard a faint whistle, far off down the valley.
And a little later a low rumble caught his ear--a rumble which grew
louder and louder until at last it turned into a roar, just as a stream
of light shot around the curve in the track ahead of him, which followed
the bend of the river.

Freddie Firefly was startled. He couldn't think what made that long lane
of light. And he was about to jump into the bushes and hide when he saw
all at once that it was exactly what he had been waiting for.

"It's a train!" he cried aloud. And he began flashing his light bravely
while he swayed from side to side, for Mrs. Ladybug had told him that he
must swing his light--if he expected to stop the train.

And all the while the train tore on towards Freddie Firefly. To his
great surprise it showed not the slightest sign of stopping. And in
spite of what Mrs. Ladybug had said, Freddie Firefly began to be afraid
that it wasn't going to pause at all.

He soon saw that if he did not do something quickly the train would run
over him. But by the time he had made up his mind to jump off the track,
out of harm's way, it was too late for him to escape in that fashion.

So Freddie Firefly crawled hurriedly into a chink beneath the railroad
tie on which he had been sitting. And with a horrible scream the train
thundered over him. To Freddie's dismay it paid no heed to his flashing
light, though he thought it must surely have seen that signal.

Those were terrible moments for Freddie Firefly, while the train was
passing above him. The frightful noise, the trembling of the ground, the
rush of the air--all those things made him wonder whether he could ever
reach home again, alive and unharmed. He was even more scared than he
had been when he found himself in the power of that dreadful creature,
Jennie Junebug.


XXIII

WHY FREDDIE WAS GLAD


Even after the train had rushed shrieking into the village two miles
away, and the echoes had grown still, Freddie Firefly cowered in his
hiding-place on the railroad track, crouched in the chink beneath one of
the ties.

At last he crept out, trembling in every limb. But in spite of his
terror he skipped off the track very spryly.

Safe at one side of the rails, which gleamed in the moonlight, Freddie
felt himself all over, to make sure that he had broken no bones.

"I seem to be unhurt," he mused. "But never, never again will I listen
to anything that Mrs. Ladybug says."

And having made himself that solemn promise, he hurried away toward
Farmer Green's meadow, which he reached just before dawn.

As he crossed the fields he thought that he smelled smoke. But he
couldn't see a blaze anywhere. And when he came to the meadow he was so
eager to dance that he forgot to ask anybody if there had been a fire.

Luckily he arrived in time to take part in the last dance of the night.
And after the dance was over he astonished all his family with the
strange tale that he told them.

Before going to their homes all Freddie's relations gathered around him
to listen to his story of the night's adventure. And there were many
"Ohs" and "Ahs" when he reached the point where the train ran over him.

There arose that tasteful home with which, perhaps more than any
other spot, memory loves to associate her.

There, for ten happy summers, she enjoyed the communion with Nature's
"visible forms," and heard her "various language," and felt her
healing touch on the wearied brain and overstrung nerves; there,
as I think she would have wished, she took leave of earth amid the
pomp and flush of the late summer, and gladly ascended to the eternal
sunshine of heaven; and there, in the shadow of the giant hills
which "brought peace" to her, and the changing moods of which she
so loved to study, her ashes await the morning of the Resurrection.

In reviewing this life of nearly sixty years, we find its keynote,
as was said at the outset, in the thought of the Christian comforter.

Then, to everybody's great surprise, Freddie Firefly began to dance up
and down and sing with joy.

"Oh, I'm so glad! Oh, I'm so glad!" he chanted over and over again.

His relations could scarcely believe that he was quite himself.

"His fright on the railroad must have injured his mind," they said to
one another. "Or perhaps the train ran over his head when he didn't know
it." They could think of no other reason for Freddie's queer actions.
Always before he had seemed too kind-hearted to rejoice over another
person's ill luck.

"What do you mean?" three hundred voices shouted. "Why are you glad?"

"I'm glad I tried to stop the train," Freddie Firefly answered, "because
now Mrs. Ladybug can't say that I set her house on fire. She knows that
I was working on the railroad to-night. And nobody can be in two places
at the same time."

THE END.