Post-graduate lectures are intended not for students, using the word in
its limited sense, but for fully fledged men who wish for extra training
in some special subject, and Thénard, the famous neurologist of the
Beaujon, had a class which practically represented the whole continent of
Europe and half the world. Men from Vienna and Madrid, Germany and Japan,
London and New York, crowded the benches of his lecture room. Even the
Republic of Liberia was represented by a large gentleman, who seemed
carved from solid night and polished with palm oil.

Dr. Paul Quincy Adams, one of the representatives of America at the
lectures of Thénard, was just reaching the entrance of the Beaujon as the
last rays of sunset were touching the heights of Montmartre and the first
lamps of Paris were springing alight.

He had walked all the way from his rooms in the Rue Dijon, for omnibuses
were slow and uncomfortable, cabs were dear, and money was, just at
present, the most unpleasant thing that money can convert itself into--an
object.

Adams was six feet two, a Vermonter, an American gentleman whose chest
measurements were big, almost, as his instincts were fine. He had fought
his way up, literally from the soil, putting in terms as seaside _café_
waiter to help to pay his college fees; putting aside everything but
honour in his grand struggle to freedom and individual existence, and
finishing his college career with a travelling scholarship which brought
him to Paris.

Individualism, the thing that lends something of greatness to each
American, but which does not tend to the greatness of the nation, was the
mainspring of this big man whom Nature had undoubtedly designed with her
eye on the vast plains, virgin forests, and unfordable rivers, and across
whose shoulder one half divined the invisible axe of the pioneer.

He was just twenty-three years of age, yet he looked thirty: plain enough
as far as features go, his face was a face to remember in time of trouble.
It was of the American type that approximates to the Red Indian, and you
guessed the power that lay behind it by the set of the cheek-bones, the
breadth of the chin and the restfulness of the eyes. Like the Red Indian,
Paul Quincy Adams was slow of speech. A silent man with his tongue.

He entered the hospital and passed down a long corridor to the cloakroom,
where he left his overcoat and from there, by another corridor, he found
his way to the swing-door of the lecture theatre. It wanted five minutes
to the hour. He peeped over the muffing of the glass; the place was nearly
full, so he went in and took his seat, choosing one at the right hand end
of the first row of the stalls--students' vernacular for the lowest row of
the theatre benches.

The theatre was lit with gas. It had whitewashed walls bare as the walls
of a barn; a permanent blackboard faced the audience, and the air was
suffocatingly hot after the crisp, cold air of the streets. It would be
like this till about the middle of the lecture, when Alphonse the porter
would pull the rope of the skylight and ventilate the place with an arctic
blast.

This room, which had once been an anatomical theatre, and always a lecture
room, had known the erect form of Lisfranc; the stooping shoulders of
Majendie had cast their shadow on its walls; Flourens had lectured here on
that subject of which he had so profound a knowledge--the brain; the
echoes of this room had heard the foundations of Medicine shift and
change, the rank heresies of yesterday voiced as the facts of to-day--and
_vice versa_.

Adams, having opened his notebook and sharpened his pencil, sat listening
to the gas sizzling above his head; then he turned for a moment and
glanced at the men behind him: the doctor from Vienna in a broadly braided
frock-coat with satin facings, betraying himself to all men by the end of
the clinical thermometer protruding from his waistcoat pocket; the two
Japanese gentlemen--brown, incurious, and inscrutable--men from another
world, come to look on; the republican from Liberia, and the rest. Then he
turned his head, for the door on the floor of the theatre had opened,
giving entrance to Thénard.

Thénard was a smallish man in a rather shabby frock-coat; his beard was
scant, pointed, and gray-tinged; he had a depressed expression, the
general air of a second-rate tradesman on the verge of bankruptcy; and as
he entered and crossed to the _estrade_ where the lecture table stood and
the glass of water, he shouted some words vehemently and harshly to
Alphonse, the theatre attendant, who, it seemed, had forgotten to place
the box of coloured chalks on the table--the sacred chalks which the
lecturer used for colouring his diagrams on the blackboard.

One instantly took a dislike to this shabby-looking _bourgeois_, with the
harsh, irritable voice, but after awhile, as the lecture went on, one
forgot him. It was not the profundity of the man's knowledge, great though
it was, that impressed one; or the subtlety of his reasoning or the
lucidity of his expression, but his earnestness, his obvious disregard for
everything earthly but Truth.

This was borne in on one by every expression of his face, every gesture of
his body, every word and every tone and inflection of his voice.

This was the twelfth and last lecture of the course. It was on the "Brain
Conceived as a Machine Pure and Simple."

It was a cold and pitiless lecture, striking at the root of poetry and
romance, speaking of religions, not religion, and utterly ignoring the
idea which stands poised like a white-winged Victory over all other
ideas--the Soul.

It was pitiless because it did these things, and it was terrible because
it was spoken by Thénard, for he was just standing there, a little, oldish
man, terribly convincing in his simplicity, absolutely without prejudice,
as ready to acknowledge the soul and its attributes as to refuse them,
standing there twiddling his horsehair watch-chain, and speaking from the
profundity of his knowledge with, at his elbow, a huge army of facts,
instances, and cases, not one of which did not support his logical
deductions.

I wish I could print his lecture in full. I can only give some few
sentences taken at haphazard from the peroration.

"The fundamental basis of all morality can be expressed by the words
Left--or Right. 'Shall I take the path to the right, when my child is
being threatened with death by a pterodactyl, or shall I take the path to
the left when a mastodon is threatening to put a foot on my dinner?'

"The prehistoric man asking himself that question in the dawn of time laid
the foundation of the world's morality. Do we know how he answered it?
Yes--undoubtedly he saved his dinner.

"The prehistoric woman crouching in the ferns, wakened from sleep by the
cries of her child on the left and the shouting of her man on the right,
found herself face to face with the question, 'Shall I court
self-destruction in attempting to save _It_, or shall I seek safety with
_Him_?' Do we know how she answered that question? Undoubtedly she took
the path to the left.

"The woman's Right was the man's Left, and she took it not from any motive
of goodness but just because her child appealed to her as powerfully as
his dinner appealed to the man. And which was the nobler instinct? In
prehistoric times, gentlemen, they were both equally noble, for the
instinct of the man was as essential to the fact that you and I are here
gathered together in enlightened Paris, as the instinct of the woman.

"Right or Left? That is still the essence of morals--all the rest is
embroidery. Whilst I am talking to you now, service is being held at the
Madeleine, the Bourse is closed (looking at his watch), but other gaming
houses are opening. The _Café de Paris_ is filling, the Little Sisters of
the Poor are visiting the sick.

"We feel keenly that some people are doing good and some people are doing
evil. We wonder at the origin of it all, and the answer comes from the
prehistoric forest.

"'I am Determination. I can choose the Right or I can choose the Left.
Whilst dwelling in the man's heart my choice lies _that_ way, in the
woman's heart _that_ way.

"'I am not religion, but between the man and the woman I have created an
essential antagonism of motive which will be the basis of all future
religions and systems of ethics. I have already dimly demarcated a line
between ferocity and greed, and a thing which has yet no name, but which
will in future ages be called Love.

"'_I_ am a constant quantity, but the dim plan I have traced in the
plastic brain will be used by the ever-building years; spires and domes
shall fret the skies, priests unroll their scrolls of papyri, infinite
developments of the simple basic Right and Left laid down by me shall
combine to build a Pantheon of a million shrines to a million gods--who
are yet only three: the tramp of the mastodon, the cry of the child in the
pterodactyl's grip, and myself, who in future years shall be the only
surviving god of the three--Determination.'

                   *       *       *       *       *

"The Pineal Gland had no known function, so Descartes declared it to be
the seat of the soul. 'There is nothing in here. Let us put something in,'
and he put in the idea of the soul. That was the old method.

"Morphology teaches us now that the Pineal Gland is the last vestige of an
eye which once belonged to a reptile long extinct. That is the new method;
the results are not so pretty, but they are more exact."

                   *       *       *       *       *

"You have finished your post-graduate work, and I suppose you are about to
leave Paris like the others. Have you any plans?"

The lecture was over, the audience was pouring out of the theatre, and
Adams was talking to Thénard, whom he knew personally.

"Well, no," said Adams. "None very fixed just at present. Of course I
shall practise in my own country, but I can't quite see the opening yet."


CHAPTER II

DR. DUTHIL


Thénard, with his case-book and a bundle of papers under his arm, stood
for a moment in thought. Then he suddenly raised his chin.

"How would you like to go on a big-game shooting expedition to the
Congo?"

"Ask a child would it like pie," said the American, speaking in English.
Then, in French, "Immensely, monsieur. Only it is impossible."

"Why?"

"Money."

"Ah, that's just it," said Thénard. "A patient of mine, Captain Berselius,
is starting on a big-game shooting expedition to the Congo. He requires a
medical man to accompany him, and the salary is two thousand francs a
month and all things found----"

Adams's eyes lit up.

"Two thousand a month!"

"Yes; he is a very rich man. His wife is a patient of mine. When I was
visiting her yesterday the Captain put the thing before me--in fact, gave
me _carte blanche_ to choose for him. He requires the services of a
medical man--an Englishman if possible----"

"But I'm an American," said Adams.

"It is the same thing," replied Thénard, with a little laugh. "You are all
big and strong and fond of guns and danger."

He had taken Adams by the arm and was leading him down the passage toward
the entrance hall of the hospital.

"The primitive man is strong in you all, and that is why you are so vital
and important, you Anglo-Saxons, Anglo-Celts, and Anglo-Teutons. Come in
here."

He opened the door of one of the house-surgeon's rooms.

A youngish looking man, with a straw-coloured beard, was seated before the
fire, with a cigarette between his lips.

He rose to greet Thénard, was introduced to Adams, and, drawing an old
couch a bit from the wall, he bade his guests be seated.

The armchair he retained himself. One of the legs was loose, and he was
the only man in the Beaujon who had the art of sitting on it without
smashing it. This he explained whilst offering cigarettes.

Thénard, like many another French professor, unofficially was quite one
with the students. He would snatch a moment from his work to smoke a
cigarette with them; he would sometimes look in at their little parties. I
have seen him at a birthday party where the cakes and ale, to say nothing
of the cigarettes and the unpawned banjo, were the direct products of a
pawned microscope. I have seen him, I say, at a party like this, drinking
a health to the microscope as the giver of all the good things on the
table--he, the great Thénard, with an income of fifteen to twenty thousand
pounds a year, and a reputation solid as the four massive text-books that
stood to his name.

"Duthil," said Thénard, "I have secured, I believe, a man for our friend
Berselius." He indicated Adams with a half laugh, and Dr. Duthil, turning
in his chair, regarded anew the colossus from the States. The great,
large-hewn, cast-iron visaged Adams, beside whom Thénard looked like a
shrivelled monkey and Duthil like a big baby with a beard.

"Good," said Duthil.

"A better man than Bauchardy," said Thénard.

"Much," replied Duthil.

"Who, then, was Bauchardy?" asked Adams, amused rather by the way in which
the two others were discussing him.

"Bauchardy?" said Duthil. "Why, he was the last man Berselius killed."

"Silence," said Thénard, then turning to Adams, "Berselius is a perfectly
straight man. On these hunting expeditions of his he invariably takes a
doctor with him; he is not a man who fears death in the least, but he has
had bitter experience of being without medical assistance, so he takes a
doctor. He pays well and is entirely to be trusted to do the right thing,
as far as money goes. On that side the contract is all right. But there is
another side--the character of Berselius. A man, to be the companion of
Captain Berselius, needs to be big and strong in body and mind, or he
would be crushed by the hand of Captain Berselius. Yes, he is a terrible
man in a way--_un homme affreux_--a man of the tiger type--and he is going
to the country of the big baboons, where there is the freedom of action
that the soul of such a man desires----"

"In fact," said Adams, "he is a villain, this Captain Berselius?"

"Oh, no," said Thénard, "not in the least. Be quiet, Duthil, you do not
know the man as I do. I have studied him; he is a Primitive----"

"An Apache," said Duthil. "Come, dear master, confess that from the moment
you heard that this Berselius was intent on another expedition, you
determined to throw a foreigner into the breach. 'No more French doctors,
if possible,' said you. Is not that so?"

Thénard laughed the laugh of cynical confession, buttoning his overcoat at
the same time and preparing to go.

"Well, there may be something in what you say, Duthil. However, there the
offer is--a sound one financially. Yes. I must say I dread that two
thousand francs a month will prove a fatal attraction, and, if Mr. Adams
does not go, some weaker man will. Well, I must be off."

"One moment," said Adams. "Will you give me this man's address? I don't
say I will take the post, but I might at least go and see him."

"Certainly," replied Thénard, and taking one of his own cards from his
pocket, he scribbled on the back of it--

                        CAPTAIN ARMAND BERSELIUS
                           14 AVENUE MALAKOFF

Then he went off to a consultation at the Hotel Bristol on a Balkan
prince, whose malady, hitherto expressed by evil living, had suddenly
taken an acute and terrible turn and Adams found himself alone with Dr.
Duthil.

"That is Thénard all over," said Duthil. "He is the high priest of
modernism. He and all the rest of the neurologists have divided up
devilment into provinces, and labelled each province with names all ending
in _enia_ or _itis_. Berselius is a Primitive, it seems; this Balkan
prince is--I don't know what they call him--sure to be something Latin,
which does not interfere in the least with the fact that he ought to be
boiled alive in an antiseptic solution. Have another cigarette."

"Do you know anything special against Captain Berselius?" asked Adams,
taking the cigarette.

"I have never even seen the man," replied Duthil, "but from what I have
heard, he is a regular buccaneer of the old type, who values human life
not one hair. Bauchardy, that last doctor he took with him, was a friend
of mine. Perhaps that is why I feel vicious about the man, for he killed
Bauchardy as sure as I didn't."

"Killed him?"

"Yes; with hardship and overwork."

"Overwork?"

"_Mon Dieu_, yes. Dragged him through swamps after his infernal monkeys
and tigers, and Bauchardy died in the hospital at Marseilles of spinal
meningitis, brought on by the hardships of the expedition--died as mad as
Berselius himself."

"As mad as Berselius?"

"Yes; this infernal Berselius seemed to have infected him with his own
hunting fever, and Bauchardy--_mon Dieu_, you should have seen him during
his illness, shooting imaginary elephants, and calling for Berselius."

"What I want to get at is this," said Adams. "Was Bauchardy driven into
these swamps you speak of, and made to hunt against his will--treated
cruelly, in fact--or did Berselius take his own share of the hardships?"

"His own share! Why, from what I can understand, he did all the hunting. A
man of iron with the ferocity of a tiger--a very devil, who made others
follow him as poor Bauchardy did, to his death----"

"Well," said Adams, "this man interests me somehow, and I intend to have a
look at him."

"The pay is good," said Duthil, "but I have warned you fully, if Thénard
hasn't. Good evening."

The Rue Dijon, where Adams lived, was a good way from the Beaujon. He made
his way there on foot, studying the proposition as he went.

The sporting nature of the proposal coming from the sedate Thénard rather
tickled him.

"He wants to pit me against this Berselius," said Adams to himself, "same
as if we were dogs. That's the long and short of it. Yes, I can understand
his meaning in part; he's afraid if Berselius engages some week-kneed
individual, he'll give the weak-kneed individual more than he can take. He
wants to stick a six-foot Yankee in the breach, instead of a five-foot
froggie, all absinthe and cigarette ends. Well, he was frank, at all
events. Hum, I don't like the proposition--and yet there's
something--there's something--there's something about it I _do_ like. Then
there's the two thousand francs a month, and not a penny out of pocket,
and there's the Congo, and the guggly-wuggly alligators, and the great big
hairy apes, and the feel of a gun in one's hand again. Oh, my!"

"All the same, it's funny," he went on, as he drew near the Boulevard St.
Michel. "When Thénard spoke of Berselius there was something more than
absence of friendship in his tone. Can old man Thénard have a down on this
Berselius and does he in his heart of hearts imagine that by allotting P.
Quincy Adams to the post of physician extraordinary to the expedition, he
will get even with the Captain? My friend, remember that hymn the English
Salvationists were yelling last Sunday outside the American Presbyterian
Church in the Rue de Berry--'Christian, walk carefully, danger is near.'
Not a bad motto for Paris, and I will take it."

He walked into the _Café d'Italie_, which, as everyone knows, is next to
Mouton's, the pork shop, on the left-hand side of the Boul' Miche, as you
go from the Seine; called for a boc, and then plunged into a game of
dominoes with an art student in a magenta necktie, whom he had never met
before, and whom, after the game, he would, a million to one, never meet
again.

That night, when he had blown out his candle, he reviewed Thénard's
proposition in the dark. The more he looked at it the more attraction it
had for him, and--"Whatever comes of it," said he to himself, "I will go
and see this Captain Berselius to-morrow. The animal seems worth the
trouble of inspection."


CHAPTER III

CAPTAIN BERSELIUS


Next morning was chill and a white Seine mist wrapped Paris in its folds.
It clung to the trees of the Avenue Champs Elysées, and it half veiled the
Avenue Malakoff as Adams's _fiacre_ turned into that thoroughfare and drew
up at No. 14, a house with a carriage drive, a porter's lodge, and
wrought-iron gates.

The American paid off his cab, rang at the porter's lodge, was instantly
admitted, and found himself in an enormous courtyard domed in with glass.
He noted the orange and aloe trees growing in tubs of porcelain, as the
porter led him to the big double glass doors giving entrance to the
house.

"He's got the money," thought Adams, as the glass swing-door was opened by
a flunkey as magnificent as a Lord Mayor's footman, who took the visitor's
card and the card of M. Thénard and presented them to a functionary with a
large pale face, who was seated at a table close to the door.

This personage, who was as soberly dressed as an archbishop, and had
altogether a pontifical air, raised himself to his feet and approached the
visitor.

"Has monsieur an appointment----"

"No," said Adams. "I have come to see your master on business. You can
take him my card--yes, that one--Dr. Adams, introduced by Dr. Thénard."

The functionary seemed perplexed; the early hour, the size of the visitor,
his decided manner, all taken together, were out of routine. Only for a
moment he hesitated, then leading the way across the warm and
flower-scented hall, he opened a door and said, "Will monsieur take a
seat?" Adams entered a big room, half library, half museum; the door
closed behind him, and he found himself alone.

The four walls of the room showed a few books, but were mostly covered
with arms and trophies of the chase. Japanese swords in solid ivory
scabbards, swords of the old Samurai so keen that a touch of the edge
would divide a suspended hair. Malay krisses, double-handed Chinese
execution swords; old pepper-pot revolvers, such as may still be found on
the African coast; knob-kerries, assegais, steel-spiked balls swinging
from whips of raw hide; weapons wild and savage and primitive as those
with which Attila drove before him the hordes of the Huns, and modern
weapons of to-day and yesterday; the big elephant gun which has been
supplanted by the express rifle; the deadly magazine rifle, the latest
products of Schaunard of the Rue de la Paix and Westley Richards of
London.

Adams forgot time as he stood examining these things; then he turned his
attention to the trophies, mounted by Borchard of Berlin, that prince of
taxidermists. Here stood a great ape, six feet and over--_monstrum
horrendum_--head flung back, mouth open, shouting aloud to the imagination
of the gazer in the language that was spoken ere the earliest man lifted
his face to the chill mystery of the stars. In the right fist was clutched
the branch of a M'bina tree, ready lifted to dash your brains out--the
whole thing a miracle of the taxidermist's art. Here crawled an alligator
on a slab of granitic rock; an alligator--that is to say, the despair of
the taxidermist--for you can make nothing out of an alligator; alive and
not in motion he looks stuffed, stuffed, he looks just the same.
Hartbeest, reedbuck, the maned and huge-eared roan antelope, gazelle, and
bush-buck, all were here, skull or mask, dominated by the vast head of the
wildebeest, with ponderous sickle-curved horns.

Adams had half completed the tour of the walls when the door of the
library opened and Captain Berselius came in. Tall, black-bearded and
ferocious looking--that was the description of man Adams was prepared to
meet. But Captain Berselius was a little man in a frock-coat, rather worn,
and slippers. He had evidently been in _négligé_ and, to meet the visitor,
slipped into the frock-coat, or possibly he was careless, taken up with
abstractions, dreams, business affairs, plans. He was rather stout, with
an oval, egg-shaped face; his beard, sparse and pointed and tinged with
gray, had originally been light of hue; he had pale blue eyes, and he had
a perpetual smile.

It is to be understood by this that Captain Berselius's smile was, so to
speak, hung on a hair-trigger; there was always a trace of it on his face
round the lips, and in conversation it became accentuated.

At first sight, during your first moments of meeting with Captain
Berselius, you would have said, "What a happy-faced and jolly little
man!"

Adams, completely taken aback by the apparition before him, bowed.

"I have the pleasure of speaking to Dr. Adams, introduced by Dr. Thénard?"
said Captain Berselius, motioning the visitor to a chair. "Pray take a
seat, take a seat--yes----" He took a seat opposite the American, crossed
his legs in a comfortable manner, caressed his chin, and whilst chatting
on general subjects stared full at the newcomer, as though Adams had been
a statue, examining him, without the least insolence, but in that thorough
manner with which a purchaser examines the horse he is about to buy or the
physician of an insurance company a proposer.

It was now that Adams felt he had to deal with no common man in Captain
Berselius.

Never before had he conversed with a person so calmly authoritative, so
perfectly at ease, and so commanding. This little commonplace-looking,
negligently dressed man, talking easily in his armchair, made the spacious
Adams feel small and of little account in the world. Captain Berselius
filled all the space. He was _the_ person in that room; Adams, though he
had personality enough, was nowhere. And now he noticed that the perpetual
smile of the Captain had no relation to mirth or kindliness, it was not
worn as a mask, for Captain Berselius had no need for masks; it was a
mysterious and unaccountable thing that was there.

"You know M. Thénard intimately?" said Captain Berselius, turning suddenly
from some remarks he was making on the United States.

"Oh, no," said Adams. "I have attended his clinics; beyond that----"

"Just so," said the other. "Are you a good shot?"

"Fair, with the rifle."

"You have had to do with big game?"

"I have shot bear."

"These are some of my trophies," said the Captain, rising to his feet. He
took his stand before the great ape and contemplated it for a moment. "I
shot him near M'Bassa on the West Coast two years ago. The natives at the
village where we were camping said there was a big monkey in a tree near
by. They seemed very much frightened, but they led me to the tree. He knew
what a gun was; he knew what a man was, too. He knew that his hour of
death had arrived, and he came roaring out of the tree to meet me. But
when he was on the ground, with the muzzle of my Mannlicher two yards from
his head, all his rage vanished. He saw death, and to shut out the sight
he put his big hands before his face----"

"And you?"

"I shot him through the heart. This room does not represent all my work.
The billiard room and the hall contain many of my trophies; they are
interesting to me, for each has a history. That tiger skin there in front
of the fireplace once covered a thing very much alive. He was a full-sized
brute, and I met him in a rice field near Benares. I had not even time to
raise my gun when he charged. Then I was on my back and he was on top of
me. He had overshot the mark a bit--I was not even scratched. I lay
looking up at his whiskers; they seemed thick as quills, and I counted
them. I was dead to all intents and purposes, so I felt no fear. That was
the lesson this gentleman taught me; it is as natural to be dead as to be
alive. I have never been afraid of death since. Well, something must have
distracted his attention and frightened him, for he lifted himself, passed
over me like a cloud, and was gone. Well, so much for the tiger. And now
for business. Are you prepared to act as medical attendant to my new
expedition?"

"Well," said Adams, "I would like a little time to consider----"

"Certainly," said Captain Berselius, taking out his watch. "I will give
you five minutes, as a matter of form. Thénard, in a note to me this
morning, informs me he has given you all details as to salary."

"Yes, he gave me the details. As you give me so short a time to make my
decision about you, I suppose you have already made your decision about
me?"

"Absolutely," said Berselius. "Two minutes have passed. Why waste the
other three? For you have already made up your mind to come."

Adams sat down in a chair for a moment, and in that moment he did a great
deal of thinking.

He had never met a man before at all like Berselius. He had never before
come across a man with such a tremendous personality. Berselius fascinated
yet repelled him. That there was evil in this man he felt, but he felt
also that there was good. Much evil and much good. And beyond this he
divined an animal ferocity latent--the ferocity of a tiger--a cold and
pitiless and utterly divorced from reason ferociousness, the passion of a
primitive man, who had never known law except the law of the axe wielded
by the strongest. And yet there was something in the man that he liked. He
knew by Berselius's manner that if he did not take the offer now, he would
lose it. He reckoned with lightning swiftness that the expedition would
bring him in solid cash enough to start in a small way in the States. He
was as poor as Job, as hungry for adventure as a schoolboy, and he only
had a moment to decide in.

"How many men are making up your party?" suddenly asked Adams.

"You and I alone," replied Berselius, putting his watch in his pocket to
indicate that the time was almost expired.

"I will come," said Adams, and it seemed to him that he said the words
against his will.

Captain Berselius went to a writing table, took a sheet of paper and wrote
carefully and with consideration for the space of some five minutes. Then
he handed the paper to Adams. "These are the things you want," said he. "I
am an old campaigner in the wilds, so you will excuse me for specifying
them. Go for your outfit where you will, but for your guns to Schaunard,
for he is the best. Order all accounts to be sent in to my secretary, M.
Pinchon. He will settle them. Your salary you can take how you will. If it
is useful to you, I can give you a cheque now on the Crédit Lyonnais, if
you will state the amount."

"Thank you, thank you," said Adams. "I have quite sufficient money for my
needs, and, if it is the same to you, I would rather pay for my outfit
myself."

"As you please," said Captain Berselius, quite indifferently. "But
Schaunard's account and the account for drugs and instruments you will
please send to M. Pinchon; they are part of the expedition. And now,"
looking at his watch, "will you do me the pleasure of staying to
_déjeuner_?"

Adams bowed.

"I will notify you to-night at your address the exact date we start," said
Captain Berselius as he led the way from the room. "It will be within a
fortnight. My yacht is lying at Marseilles, and will take us to Matadi,
which will be our base. She will be faster than the mail-boats and very
much more comfortable."

