Produced by Tom Allen, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS AND THEIR FRIENDS

By MARGARET SIDNEY

AUTHOR OF "FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS ABROAD," "A LITTLE MAID OF CONCORD TOWN,"
"SALLY, MRS. TUBBS," ETC.


Illustrated by Eugenie M. Wireman


[Illustration: "What are you doing, Phronsie, sitting down in the middle
of the stairs?"--(See page 46.)]


  To my daughter Margaret,
    who to her friends embodies
    "Polly Pepper" in her
    girlhood, I dedicate most
    lovingly this book.


PREFACE.


  There were so many interesting friends of the Five Little Peppers,
  whose lives were only the faintest of outlines in the series ending
  when Phronsie was grown up, that a volume devoted to this outer
  circle has been written to meet the persistent demand.

  Herein the author records many happenings that long ago Ben and Polly,
  Joel and David told her. And even Phronsie whispered some of it
  confidentially into the listening ear. "Tell about Rachel, please,"
  she begged; and Margaret Sidney promised to write it all down some
  day.

  And that day seems to have arrived in which it all should be recorded
  and the promise fulfilled. For the Five Little Peppers loved their
  friends very dearly, and were loyal and true to them. And hand in
  hand, the circle widening ever, they lived and loved as this history
  records.

  MARGARET SIDNEY.


CONTENTS


I. A FIVE-O'CLOCK TEA

II. PHRONSIE

III. CLEM FORSYTHE

IV. MISS TAYLOR'S WORKING BEE

V. "SHE'S MY LITTLE GIRL"

VI. GRANDMA BASCOM

VII. THE DISAPPOINTMENT

VIII. THE GARDEN PARTY

IX. THE TEN-DOLLAR BILL

X. TROUBLE FOR JOEL

XI. RACHEL

XII. DOINGS AT THE PARSONAGE

XIII. "SHE'S GOING TO STAY HERE FOREVER"

XIV. "CAN'T GO," SAID JOEL

XV. UP IN ALEXIA'S PRETTY ROOM

XVI. THE ACCIDENT

XVII. JOEL'S ADVENTURE

XVIII. THE COMFORT COMMITTEE

XIX. JOEL'S NEW FRIEND

XX. THE COOKING CLUB

XXI. OF MANY THINGS IN GENERAL

XXII. RACHEL'S VISIT TO MISS PARROTT

XXIII. THE OLD PARROTT HOMESTEAD

XXIV. RACHEL'S FUTURE

XXV. JACK PARISH

XXVI. MR. HAMILTON DYCE A TRUE FRIEND

XXVII. A PIECE OF GOOD NEWS

XXVIII. THE LITTLE STONE CUPBOARD


ILLUSTRATIONS

"WHAT ARE YOU DOING, PHRONSIE, SITTING DOWN IN THE MIDDLE OF THE STAIRS?"

FIVE-O'CLOCK TEA

"BUT THIS IS TEN DOLLARS," SAID JOEL

"ON, LARRY," SAID MISS TAYLOR GENTLY, BENDING OVER HIM

"YES, SIR," CALLED JOEL BACK, FROM THE ALCOVE

THE UNLUCKY OAR WAS SEIZED BY THE TRIUMPHANT CREW

"I USED TO PLAY WITH IT," SHE SAID SOFTLY

HE STOOD IN THE MIDDLE OF THE LITTLE SHOP


I

A FIVE-O'CLOCK TEA


"I wish," said Phronsie slowly, "that you'd come in, little girl."

"Can't." The girl at the gate peered through the iron railings, pressing
her nose quite flat, to give the sharp, restless, black eyes the best
chance.

"Please do," begged Phronsie, coming up quite close; "I very much wish you
would."

"Can't," repeated the girl on the outside. "Cop won't let me."

"Who?" asked Phronsie, much puzzled and beginning to look frightened.

"Perlice." The girl nodded briefly, taking her face away from the iron
railings enough to accomplish that ceremony. Then she plastered her nose up
against its support again, and stared at Phronsie with all her might.

"Oh," said Phronsie, with a little laugh that chased away her fright,"
there isn't any big policeman here. After the stag had been taken, a gentleman of the neighbourhood
invited the king to a splendid dinner which he had prepared for him.

At the conclusion of the banquet the ceiling of the hall _suddenly
opened_, a thick cloud, descended and burst over their heads like
a thunder storm, pouring forth a shower of _sugar-plums_ instead
of hail, which was succeeded by a gentle rain of rose-water.

_The Coin Guinea_--In the reign of king Charles II., when Sir Robert
Holmes, of the Isle of Wight, brought gold-dust from the coast of
Guinea, a guinea first received its name from that country.

_A Motto_.--A constant frequenter of city feasts, having grown enormously
fat, it was proposed to write on his back, "_Widened at the expense of the
corporation of London."_
_Sedan-chairs and Hackney-coaches_.

--Sir S. Duncombe, predecessor to Duncombe Lord Feversham, and
gentleman pensioner to King James and Charles I., introduced sedan-chairs
into this country, anno 1634, when he procured a patent that vested
in him and his heirs the sole right of carrying persons up and down
in them for a certain sum.

Sir Saunders had been a great traveller, and saw these chairs at
Sedan, where they were first invented. It is remarkable that Capt. Bailey
introduced the use of hackney-coaches in this year; a tolerable ride might
then be obtained, in either of these vehicles for four pence.

_Heroism--Seward_, "the brave Earl of Northumberland," feeling in his sickness
that he drew near his end, quitted his bed and put on his armour, saying,
"That it became not a man to die like a beast," on which he died standing;
an act as singular as it was heroic.

_Epigram on Epigrams._ What is an epigram?

a dwarfish whole, Its body brevity, and wit its soul.

W. H. H.

* * * * *

"THE MOUSE TOWER"
A GERMAN LEGEND.

(_For the Mirror_.)
The bishop of Mentz was a wealthy prince, Wealthy and proud was he;
He had all that was worth a wish on earth-- But he had not charitie!

He would stretch put his _empty_ hands to _bless_, Or lift them both to
_pray_; But alack!

to lighten man's distress, They moved no other way.

A famine came! but his heart was still As hard as his pride was high; And
the starving poor but throng'd his door To curse him and to die.

At length from the crowd rose a clamour so loud, That a cruel plot laid he;
He open'd one of his granaries wide, And bade them enter free.

In they rush'd--the maid and the sire.
And the child that could barely run-- Then he clos'd the barn, and set it
on fire.

And burnt them every one!

And loud he laugh'd at each terrible shriek, And cried to his
archer-train, "The merry mice!

--how shrill they squeak!

-- They are fond of the bishop's grain!"
But mark, what an awful judgment soon, On the cruel bishop fell; With so
many mice his palace swarm'd, That in it he could not dwell.

They gnaw'd the arras above and beneath, They eat each savoury dish up; And
shortly their sacrilegious teeth Began to nibble the bishop!

He flew to his castle of Ehrenfels, By the side of the Rhine so fair; But
they found the road to his new abode, And came in legions there.

He built him, in haste, a tower tall In the tide, for his better assurance;
But they swam the river, and scal'd the wall, And worried him past
endurance.

One morning his skeleton there was seen, By a load of flesh the lighter;
They had picked his bones uncommonly clean, And eaten his very
mitre!

Such was the end of the bishop of Mentz, And oft at the midnight
hour, He comes in the shape of a fog so dense, And sits on his old
"Mouse-Tower."

C.K.W.

* * * * *
PRUSSIC ACID.

(_For the Mirror_.)

The circumstance of Montgomery's recent suicide in Newgate, has led
me to send you the following remarks upon the nature and properties
of that most violent poison, Prussic acid, with which the unfortunate
man terminated his existence.

Were we to consider the constituent parts and properties of the
most common things we are in the habit of daily using, and their
poisonous and destructive natures, we should recoil at the deadly
potion, and shrink from the loathsome draught we are about to take.The girl tumbled down to the grass and rolled over and over,
coming up suddenly to sit straight, wipe her tangled black hair out of her
eyes, and stare at Phronsie. "Well, you are a reg'lar freak, you are," was
all she could say.

"What's a 'freak'?" asked Phronsie, actually turning her back on her child
to give all her attention to this absorbing conversation, with its most
attractive vocabulary.

"It's--oh, Jumbo!" and over she flopped again, to roll and laugh. "Well,
there!" and she jumped to her feet so quickly she nearly overthrew
Phronsie, who had drawn closer, unable to miss a bit of this very strange
proceeding. "Now I'm through pretending an' I haven't got any child, an'
you may have her back." She wrung her grimy hands together, and turned her
back on the object of so much attention. "Take her, quick; she's yours."

Phronsie hurried over to the doll, sitting up in pink loveliness against
the tree, knelt down on the grass, and patted her with gentle hand, and
smoothed down her curls. A curious sound broke in upon her work, and she
looked up and listened. "I must go back," she whispered to her child, and
in a minute she was running around the figure of the girl, to stare into
her face.

"Ow--get out!" cried the girl crossly, and she whirled off, pulling up her
ragged dress to her face.

"I thought I heard you cry," said Phronsie in a troubled voice, and
following her in distress.

"Phoo!" cried the girl, snapping her fingers in derision, and spinning
around on the tips of her toes, "'twas the cat."

"No," said Phronsie decidedly, and shaking her head, "it couldn't be the
cat, because she doesn't hardly ever cry, and besides she isn't here"--and
she looked all around--"don't you see she isn't?"

"Well, then, 'twas that bird," said the girl, pointing up to a high branch.
"Ain't you green, not to think of him!"

"I don't _think_ it was the bird," said Phronsie slowly, and peering
up anxiously, "and he doesn't cry again, so I 'most know he couldn't have
cried then."

"Well, he will, if you wait long enough," said the girl defiantly.

"Chee, chee, chee," sang the bird, with delicious little trills, and
shaking them out so fast his small throat seemed about to burst with its
efforts.

"There, you see he couldn't cry," began Phronsie, in a burst of delight;"
you see, little girl," and she hopped up and down in glee.

"He's got the 'sterics, an' he'll cry next, like enough," said the girl.

"What's 'the 'sterics'?" asked Phronsie, coming out of her glee, and
drawing nearer. "Oh, I see some tears," and she looked soberly up into the
thin, dirty face, and forgot all about her question.

"No, you don't, either." The girl twitched away angrily. "There ain't never
no tears you could see on me; 'twas the cat or the bird. Ain't you green,
though! You're green as that grass there," and she spun round and round,
snapping her fingers all the while.

Phronsie stood quite still and regarded her sorrowfully.

"Don't you believe I cried!" screamed the girl, dashing up to her, to snap
her fingers in Phronsie's face; "say you don't this minute."

"But I think you did," said Phronsie. "Oh. I'm very sure you did, and you
may hold my child again, if you only won't cry any more," and she clasped
her hands tightly together. The other girl started and ran toward the big
iron gate.

"Oh, don't!" Phronsie called after her, and ran to overtake the flying
feet. "Please stay with me. I like you; don't go."

The girl threw her head back as if something hurt her throat, then leaned
her face against the iron railings and stuck her fingers in her ears.

"Don't! lemme alone! go 'way, can't you!" She wriggled off from Phronsie's
fingers. "I'll lick you if you don't lemme be!"

"I wish you'd play with me," said Phronsie, having hard work to keep out of
the way of the flapping shoes all down at the heel, "and you may have
Clorinda for your very own child as long as you stay--you may really."

"Ow! see here!" Up came the girl's face, and with a defiant sweep of her
grimy hands she brushed both cheeks. "Do you mean that, honest true, black
and blue?"

"Yes," said Phronsie, very much relieved to see the effect of her
invitation, "I do mean it, little girl. Come, and I'll tell Clorinda all
how it is."

"I'm goin' outside to walk up and down a bit. Bring on your doll."

"But you must come here," said Phronsie, moving off slowly backward over
the grass. "Come, little girl"--holding out her hand.

"Now I know you didn't mean it," said the girl scornfully. "You wouldn't
let me touch that nasty old doll of yours again for nothin' you wouldn't,"
she shrilled at her.

"Oh, yes, I would," declared Phronsie, in great distress; "see, I'm going
to get her now," and she turned around and hurried over the grass to pick
Clorinda off from her resting-place and run back. "There, see, little
girl," she cried breathlessly, thrusting the doll into the dirty hands;
"take her now and we'll go and play."

For answer, the girl clutched the doll and sped wildly off through the
gateway.

"Oh!" cried Phronsie, running after with pink cheeks and outstretched arms,
"give me back my child; stop, little girl."

But there wras no stop to the long, thin figure flying down the path on the
other side of the tall hedge. It was a back passage, and few pedestrians
used the path; in fact, there were none on it this afternoon, so the
children had it all to themselves. And on they went, Phronsie, with but one
thought--to rescue her child from the depths of woe such as being carried
off by a strange mother would produce--blindly plunging after.

At last the girl with the doll stopped suddenly, flung herself up against a
stone fence, and drew a long breath.

"Well, what you goin' to do about it?" she cried defiantly, clutching the
doll with a savage grip.

Phronsie, too far gone for words, sank panting down to the curbstone, to
watch her with wild eyes.

"You said I might take her," the girl blurted out. "I hain't took nothin'
but what you give me. I want to play with her to my home. You come with me,
and then you can take her back with you."

"I can't," said Phronsie, in a faint little voice. Her cheeks were very
red, and she wiped her hot face on her white apron. "You must give me
Clorinda, and I must go home," and she held out a shaking hand.

But the girl danced off, and Phronsie, without a thought beyond the rescue
of her child, stumbled on after her, scarcely seeing one step before her
for the tears that, despite all her efforts, now began to stream down her
round cheeks.

At last, in trying to turn out for a baker's boy with a big basket, she
caught her foot and fell, a tired little heap, flat in a mud puddle in the
middle of the brick pavement.

"My eye!" cried the baker's boy, lifting her up. "Here, you girl, your
sister's fell, ker-squash!"

At this, the flying girl in front whirled suddenly and came running back,
and took in the situation at once.

"Come on, you lazy thing, you!" she exclaimed; then she burst into a laugh.
"Oh, how you look!"

"Give me back--" panted Phronsie, rubbing away the tears with her muddy
hands, regardless of her splashed clothes and dirty shoes.

"Keep still, can't you?" cried the girl, gripping her arm, as two or three
pedestrians paused to stare at the two. "Come on, sister," and she seized
Phronsie's hand, and bore her off. But on turning the corner, she stopped
abruptly, and, still holding the doll closely, she dropped to one knee and
wiped off the tears from the muddy little cheeks with a not ungentle hand.
"You've got to be my sister," she said, in a gush, "else the hoodlums will
tear you from neck to heels." And seizing Phronsie's hand again, she bore
her off, dodging between rows of dwellings, that, if her companion could
have seen, would have certainly proved to be quite novel. But Phronsie was
by this time quite beyond noticing any of the details of her journey, and
after turning a corner or two, she was hauled up several flights of rickety
steps, strange to say without the usual accompaniment of staring eyes and
comments of the various neighbors in the locality.

"There!" The girl, still clutching the doll, flung wide the rickety door.
"My, ain't I glad to get here, though!" and she drew a long breath,
releasing Phronsie's hand, who immediately slid to the floor in a collapsed
little heap. "Well, this is my home--ain't it pretty, though!"

Phronsie, thus called on for a reply, tried very hard to answer, but the
words wouldn't come.

"You needn't try," said the girl, slamming the door, "'tain't likely you
can praise it enough," and she broke out into a hard, sarcastic laugh,
which shrilled its way out of the one window, whose broken glass was
adorned with nondescript fillings.

"See here now, you're all beat out," she exclaimed suddenly; then rushing
across the room, she dragged up a broken chair, and jammed it against the
door. "There now, we're by ourselves, an' you can rest."

"I must go home," said Phronsie faintly, and holding up her tired arms.
"Give me my child; I must go home."

"Did you think I didn't know what was proper?" cried the girl scornfully,
and tossing her head. "I'm going to have five-o'clock tea 'fore you go.
There, I'm a lady, an' a swell one too, I'd have you know."

She ran over to the corner of the slatternly room, and set the doll on a
bed, over which were tossed the clothes in a dirty heap, Phronsie following
every movement with anxious eyes.

"Now she's my child, remember," she said, turning her sharp, black eyes on
the small figure huddled up on the floor, "as long as she stays here."

Then she hurried about, twitching a box out here and there from a cupboard,
whose broken door hung by one hinge.

"Here's my silver spoons--ain't they beautiful!" she cried, running up with
a few two-tined forks and a bent and battered knife. These she placed, also
the cracked cups, with great gusto, on the rickety table, propped for
support against the wall, as one of its legs was gone entirely and another
on the fair road to departure.

"'Tain't stylish to have yer table agin the wall," she broke out, "at a
five-o'clock tea; I know, 'cause I've peeked in the windows up on the
avenoo, an' I've seen your folks, too." She nodded over at Phronsie. "I
know what I'll do." She tossed her head with its black, elfish locks, and
darted off in triumph, dragging up from another corner a big box, first
unceremoniously dumping out the various articles, such as dirty clothes, a
tin pan or two, a skillet, an empty bottle--last of all, a nightcap, which
she held aloft. "Gran's," she shouted; "it's been lost a mighty long time.
Now I'm goin' to wear it to my five-o'clock tea. It's a picter hat, same's
that lady had on to your house once--I seen her." She threw the old
nightcap over her hair, tied the ragged strings with an air, and soon, by
dint of pulling and hauling, had the table in the very center of the
apartment, the box securely under its most delicate and unreliable portion.

"There--my! ain't we fine, though!" She surveyed her work with great
delight, her hands on her hips. "Now, says I, for our ice cream an' cake,
with white on top, an' choc'late."

She gave a flirt of her ragged gown and darted here and there with her
elfish movements; and presently a cold potato, shivering in its skin, a
slice or two of hard, moldy bread, and some turnips and carrots, uncooked,
were set about the dirty table, with empty spools in between. "Them's the
flowers," she explained, as she put the last-mentioned articles in their
places. "Now it's all ready, except the choc'late." And waving an old tin
coffeepot, whose nose was a thing of the past, she filled it at the faucet
over the wooden sink, and put it down with a flourish at one end of the
table. "Now we're ready, an' I'm the beautiful lady up to your house--I
seen her, once when I was peekin' through the fence"--she nodded shrewdly,
her little eyes snapping--"her an' your sister."

[Illustration: Five O'Clock Tea]

"Oh, I want Polly," broke out Phronsie, with such a wail, as she sat, a
frozen little heap, not daring to stir, that the girl screamed out:

"Well, I'm goin' to take you to her, when I've given you my five-o'clock
tea; that is, if you don't cry. An' I ain't goin' to be the beautiful lady
up at your house; I'll be Mrs. somebody else. No, I'll be a Dukess--the
Dukess of Marlbrer--I've seen her in the paper. Oh, you've got to have the
best chair," and she dragged up the sole article of furniture of that name,
minus its back, away from the door; then helping Phronsie up from the
floor, she wiped off the tears on her pinafore, no longer white, and soon
had her installed on it. "Now you're comp'ny." He had on these occasions
always a sense of victory; even, in a way, a feeling of being part of a
great purpose. He talked at such times of the race, as one may who is doing
his best by it.

"Well," he said when Sara Lee opened the door, "it's a boy. Eight pounds.
Going to be red-headed, too." He chuckled.

"A boy!" said Sara Lee. "I--don't you bring any girl babies any more?"

The doctor put down his hat and glanced at her.

"Wanted a girl, to be named for you?"
"No. It's not that. It's only--" She checked herself.

He wouldn't understand. The race required girl babies.

"I've put a blue bow on my afghan. Pink is for boys," she said, and led the
way upstairs.

Very simple and orderly was the small house, as simple and orderly
as Sara Lee's days in it.

Time was to come when Sara Lee, having left it, ached for it with every
fiber of her body and her soul--for its bright curtains and fresh paint,
its regularity, its shining brasses and growing plants, its very kitchen
pans and green-and-white oilcloth. She was to ache, too, for her
friends--their small engrossing cares, their kindly interest, their
familiar faces.

Time was to come, too, when she came back, not to the little house, it is
true, but to her friends, to Anna and the others. But they had not grown
and Sara Lee had. And that is the story.

Uncle James died the next day.

One moment he was there, an uneasy figure, under the tulip quilt, and the
next he had gone away entirely, leaving a terrible quiet behind him.

He had been the center of the little house, a big and cheery and
not over-orderly center.

Followed his going not only quiet, but a wretched tidiness.

There was nothing for Sara Lee to do but to think.

And, in the way of mourning women, things that Uncle James had said which
had passed unheeded came back to her. One of them was when he had proposed
to adopt a Belgian child, and Aunt Harriet had offered horrified
protest.

"All right," he had said.

"Of course, if you feel that way about it--! But I feel kind of mean,
sometimes, sitting here doing nothing when there's such a lot to be done."

Then he had gone for a walk and had come back cheerful enough but rather
quiet.

There was that other time, too, when the German Army was hurling itself, wave
after wave, across the Yser--only of course Sara Lee knew nothing of the
Yser then--and when it seemed as though the attenuated Allied line must
surely crack and give.

He had said then that if he were only twenty years younger he would go
across and help.

"And what about me?" Aunt Harriet had asked. "But I suppose I wouldn't matter."

"You could go to Jennie's, couldn't you?"
There had followed one of those absurd wrangles as to whether or not Aunt
Harriet would go to Jennie's in the rather remote contingency of Uncle
James' becoming twenty years younger and going away.

And now Uncle James had taken on the wings of the morning and was
indeed gone away.

And again it became a question of Jennie's. Aunt Harriet, rather dazed
at first, took to arguing it pro and con.

"Of course she has room for me," she would say in her thin voice.
"There's that little room that was Edgar's. There's nobody in it now.
But there's only room for a single bed, Sara Lee."

Sara Lee was knitting socks now, all a trifle tight as to heel. "I know,"
she would say. "I'll get along. Don't you worry about me."
Always these talks ended on a note of exasperation for Aunt Harriet.

For Sara Lee's statement that she could manage would draw forth a plaintive
burst from the older woman.

"If only you'd marry Harvey," she would say. "I don't know what's come
over you. You used to like him well enough."
"I still like him."
"I've seen you jump when the telephone bell rang. Your Uncle James often
spoke about it. He noticed more than most people thought." She followed
Sara Lee's eyes down the street to where Anna was wheeling her
baby slowly up and down.

Even from that distance Sara Lee could see the bit of pink which
was the bow on her afghan.

"I believe you're afraid."

"Afraid?"

"Of having children," accused Aunt Harriet fretfully.

Sara Lee colored.

"Perhaps I am," she said; "but not the sort of thing you think. I just
don't see the use of it, that's all.

Aunt Harriet, how long does it take to become a hospital nurse?"
"Mabel Andrews was three years. It spoiled her looks too.

She used to be a right pretty girl."
"Three years," Sara Lee reflected. "By that time--"
The house was very quiet and still those days. There was an interlude of
emptiness and order, of long days during which Aunt Harriet alternately
grieved and planned, and Sara Lee thought of many things.

At the Red Cross meetings all sorts of stories were circulated; the
Belgian atrocity tales had just reached the country, and were
spreading like wildfire.

There were arguments and disagreements. A girl named Schmidt was militant
against them and soon found herself a small island of defiance
entirely surrounded by disapproval.

Mabel Andrews came once to a meeting and in businesslike fashion
explained the Red Cross dressings and gave a lesson in bandaging.
Forerunner of the many first-aid classes to come was that hour of Mabel's,
and made memorable by one thing she said.

"You might as well all get busy and learn to do such things," she
stated in her brisk voice.

"One of our _internes_ is over there, and he says we'll be in it before
spring."
After the meeting Sara Lee went up to Mabel and put a hand on her arm.

"Are you going?" she asked.

"Leaving day after to-morrow. Why?"

"I--couldn't I be useful over there?"
Mabel smiled rather grimly. "What can you do?"
"I can cook."

"Only men cooks, my dear. What else?"
"I could clean up, couldn't I? There must be something.

I'd do anything I could. Don't they have people to wash dishes and--all that?"

Mabel was on doubtful ground there.

She knew of a woman who had been permitted to take over her own
automobile, paying all her expenses and buying her own tires and
gasoline.

"She carries supplies to small hospitals in out-of-the-way places," she said.
"But I don't suppose you can do that, Sara Lee, can you?"

However, she gave Sara Lee a New York address, and Sara Lee wrote and offered
herself.

She said nothing to Aunt Harriet, who had by that time elected to take
Edgar's room at Cousin Jennie's and was putting Uncle James' clothes
in tearful order to send to Belgium.

After a time she received a reply.

"We have put your name on our list of volunteers," said the letter, "but of
course you understand that only trained workers are needed now.

France and England are full of untrained women who are eager to
help."

It was that night that Sara Lee became engaged to Harvey.

Sara Lee's attitude toward Harvey was one that she never tried to analyze.
When he was not with her she thought of him tenderly, romantically. This was
perhaps due to the photograph of him on her mantel. There was a dash about
the picture rather lacking in the original, for it was a profile, and in
it the young man's longish hair, worn pompadour, the slight thrust
forward of the head, the arch of the nostrils,--gave him a sort of
tense eagerness, a look of running against the wind.

From the photograph Harvey might have been a gladiator; as a matter of
fact he was a bond salesman.

So during the daytime Sara Lee looked--at intervals--at the photograph,
and got that feel of drive and force. And in the evenings Harvey came,
and she lost it.

For, outside of a frame, he became a rather sturdy figure, of no
romance, but of a comforting solidity.

A kindly young man, with a rather wide face and hands disfigured as to fingers
by much early baseball. He had heavy shoulders, the sort a girl might
rely on to carry many burdens.

A younger and tidier Uncle James, indeed--the same cheery manner, the
same robust integrity, and the same small ambition.

To earn enough to keep those dependent on him, and to do it fairly;
to tell the truth and wear clean linen and not run into debt; and
to marry Sara Lee and love and cherish her all his life--this was
Harvey.

A plain and likable man, a lover and husband to be sure of. But--
He came that night to see Sara Lee. There was nothing unusual about that.
He came every night.

But he came that night full of determination.
That was not unusual, either, but it had not carried him far. He had
no idea that his picture was romantic. He would have demanded it back
had he so much as suspected it. He wore his hair in a pompadour because
of the prosaic fact that he had a cow-lick.

He was very humble about himself, and Sara Lee was to him as wonderful as his
picture was to her.

Sara Lee was in the parlor, waiting for him. The one electric lamp was
lighted, so that the phonograph in one corner became only a bit of reflected
light. There was a gas fire going, and in front of it was a white fur rug.
In Aunt Harriet's circle there were few orientals.

The Encyclopaedia Britannica, not yet entirely paid for, stood against the
wall, and a leather chair, hollowed by Uncle James' solid body, was by
the fire. It was just such a tidy, rather vulgar and homelike room as
no doubt Harvey would picture for his own home. He had of course never
seen the white simplicity of Sara Lee's bedroom.

Sara Lee, in a black dress, admitted him.

When he had taken off his ulster and his overshoes--he had been raised by
women--and came in, she was standing by the fire.

"Raining," he said. "It's getting colder. May be snow before morning."

Then he stopped. Sometimes the wonder of Sara Lee got him in the throat.
She had so much the look of being poised for flight.

Even in her quietest moments there was that about her--a sort of repressed
eagerness, a look of seeing things far away.

Aunt Harriet said that there were times when she had a "flighty" look.

And that night it was that impression of elusiveness that stopped
Harvey's amiable prattle about the weather and took him to her with
his arms out.

"Sara Lee!" he said. "Don't look like that!"

"Like what?" said Sara Lee prosaically.

"I don't know," he muttered. "You--sometimes you look as though--" Then he
put his arms round her. "I love you," he said. "I'll be good to you,
Sara Lee, if you'll have me." He bent down and put his cheek against hers.
"If you'll only marry me, dear."
A woman has a way of thinking most clearly and lucidly when the man
has stopped thinking.

With his arms about her Harvey could only feel. He was trembling. As for
Sara Lee, instantly two pictures flashed through her mind, each
distinct, each clear, almost photographic.

One was of Anna, in her tiny house down the street, dragged with a nursing
baby.
The other was that one from a magazine of a boy dying on a battlefield and
crying "Mother!"

Two sorts of maternity--one quiet, peaceful, not always beautiful, but the
thing by which and to which she had been reared; the other vicarious,
of all the world.

"Don't you love me--that way?" he said, his cheek still against hers.

"I don't know."
"You don't know!"

It was then that he straightened away from her and looked without
seeing at the blur of light which was the phonograph.

Sara Lee, glancing up, saw him then as he was in the photograph, face set
and head thrust forward, and that clean-cut drive of jaw and backward
flow of heavy hair that marked him all man, and virile man.

She slipped her hand into his.

"I do love you, Harvey," she said, and went into his arms with the
complete surrender of a child.

He was outrageously happy. He sat on the arm of Uncle James' chair where she
was almost swallowed up, and with his face against hers he made his simple
plans.

Now and then he kissed the little hollow under her ear, and because he knew
nothing of the abandon of a woman in a great passion he missed nothing in
her attitude. Into her silence and passivity he read the reflection of his
own adoring love and thought it hers.

To be fair to Sara Lee, she imagined that her content in Harvey's
devotion was something more, as much more as was necessary.

For in Sara Lee's experience marriage was a thing compounded of affection,
habit, small differences and a home. Of passion, that passion which later
she was to meet and suffer from, the terrible love that hurts and agonizes,
she had never even dreamed.

Great days were before Sara Lee. She sat by the fire and knitted, and
behind the back drop on the great stage of the world was preparing,
unsuspected, the _mise en scène_.

II

About the middle of January Mabel Andrews wrote to Sara Lee from
France, where she was already installed in a hospital at Calais.

The evening before the letter came Harvey had brought round the engagement
ring.

He had made a little money in war stocks, and into the ring he had
put every dollar of his profits--and a great love, and gentleness,
and hopes which he did not formulate even to himself.

It was a solitaire diamond, conventionally set, and larger, far larger, than
the modest little stone on which Harvey had been casting anxious
glances for months.

"Do you like it, honey?" he asked anxiously.

Sara Lee looked at it on her finger.

"It is lovely! It--it's terrible!" said poor Sara Lee, and cried on his
shoulder.

Harvey was not subtle.

He had never even heard of Mabel Andrews, and he had a tendency to restrict
his war reading to the quarter column in the morning paper entitled
"Salient Points of the Day's War News."

What could he know, for instance, of wounded men who were hungry?

Which is what Mabel wrote about.

"You said you could cook," she had written. "Well, we need cooks, and something
to cook. Sometime they'll have it all fixed, no doubt, but just now it's
awful, Sara Lee. The British have money and food, plenty of it.

But here--yesterday I cut the clothes off a wounded Belgian boy.
He had been forty-eight hours on a railway siding, without even soup
or coffee."

It was early in the war then, and between Ypres and the sea stretched a
long thin line of Belgian trenches. A frantic Belgian Government, thrust out
of its own land, was facing the problem, with scant funds and with
no _matériel_ of any sort, for feeding that desolate little army.

France had her own problems--her army, non-productive industrially, and the
great and constantly growing British forces quartered there, paying
for what they got, but requiring much.

The world knows now of the starvation of German-occupied Belgium.

What it does not know and may never know is of the struggle during those
early days to feed the heroic Belgian Army in their wet and almost
untenable trenches.

Hospital trains they could improvise out of what rolling stock remained
to them. Money could be borrowed, and was.

But food? Clothing?
Ammunition?

In his little villa on the seacoast the Belgian King knew that his soldiers
were hungry, and paced the floor of his tiny living-room; and over
in an American city whose skyline was as pointed with furnace turrets
as Constantinople's is with mosques, over there Sara Lee heard that
call of hunger, and--put on her engagement ring.

Later on that evening, with Harvey's wide cheerful face turned adoringly
to her, Sara Lee formulated a question:

"Don't you sometimes feel as though you'd like to go to France and fight?"

"What for?"

"Well, they need men, don't they?"
"I guess they don't need me, honey.

I'd be the dickens of a lot of use!
Never fired a gun in my life."

"You could learn. It isn't hard."
Harvey sat upright and stared at her.

"Oh, if you want me to go--" he said, and waited.

Sara Lee twisted her ring on her finger.

"Nobody wants anybody to go," she said not very elegantly.

"I'd just--I'd rather like to think you wanted to go."
That was almost too subtle for Harvey.

Something about him was rather reminiscent of Uncle James on mornings
when he was determined not to go to church.

"It's not our fight," he said. "And as far as that goes, I'm not so sure
there isn't right on both sides. Or wrong. Most likely wrong.
I'd look fine going over there to help the Allies, and then making
up my mind it was the British who'd spilled the beans. Now let's
talk about something interesting--for instance, how much we love
each other."
It was always "we" with Harvey. In his simple creed if a girl
accepted a man and let him kiss her and wore his ring it was a
reciprocal love affair. It never occurred to him that sometimes as
the evening dragged toward a close Sara Lee was just a bit weary
of his arms, and that she sought, after he had gone, the haven of
her little white room, and closed the door, and had to look rather
a long time at his photograph before she was in a properly loving
mood again.
But that night after his prolonged leave-taking Sara Lee went
upstairs to her room and faced the situation.
She was going to marry Harvey. She was committed to that. And she
loved him; not as he cared, perhaps, but he was a very definite
part of her life. Once or twice when he had been detained by business
she had missed him, had put in a lonely and most unhappy evening.
Sara Lee had known comparatively few men. In that small and simple
circle of hers, with its tennis court in a vacant lot, its one or
two inexpensive cars, its picnics and porch parties, there was none
of the usual give and take of more sophisticated circles. Boys and
girls paired off rather early, and remained paired by tacit agreement;
there was comparatively little shifting. There were few free lances
among the men, and none among the girls. When she was seventeen
Harvey had made it known unmistakably that Sara Lee was his, and
no trespassing. And for two years he had without intentional
selfishness kept Sara Lee for himself.
That was how matters stood that January night when Sara Lee went
upstairs after Harvey had gone and read Mabel's letter, with Harvey's
photograph turned to the wall. Under her calm exterior a little
flame of rebellion was burning in her. Harvey's perpetual "we," his
attitude toward the war, and Mabel's letter, with what it opened
before her, had set the match to something in Sara Lee she did not
recognize--a strain of the adventurer, a throw-back to some wandering
ancestor perhaps. But more than anything it had set fire to the
something maternal that is in all good women.
Yet, had Aunt Harriet not come in just then, the flame might have
died.
And had it died a certain small page of the history of this war
would never have been written.
Aunt Harriet came in hesitatingly. She wore a black wrapper, and
her face, with her hair drawn back for the night, looked tight and
old.

"Harvey gone?" she asked.

"Yes."
"I thought I'd better come in. There's something--I can tell you
in the morning if you're tired."
"I'm not tired," said Sara Lee.
Aunt Harriet sat down miserably on a chair.
"I've had a letter from Jennie," she stated.Phronsie by this time was begging with the others, while she sat straight
in Polly's lap, with very red cheeks and wide eyes. Now she slipped out,
and rushed up to Jasper.

"And I, too, Japser; I want to give out letters, too," she cried,
dreadfully excited.

"So you shall, Pet," he cried, seizing her to toss her up in the air, the
others all circling around them, Phronsie's happy little crows going up
high above the general din.

"Well, I think if we are going to have such a fine post office, we'll have
to work pretty hard to write the letters," said Polly, after they had
sobered down a bit.

"Ugh!" cried Joel with a grimace, "I'm not going to write a single scrap of
one."

"Indeed you are," retorted Polly; "everybody has absolutely got to write
some letters. Why, we must have a bushel of them."

"Oh, Polly Pepper!" cried the others, "a bushel of letters!"

"And no one can have a letter who doesn't write some," announced Polly
firmly--"the very idea! So we must all work like everything to get ready
for the post office."


III

CLEM FORSYTHE


Phronsie sat on the stairs, halfway down the long flight. It was the same
staircase on which Jasper had found her, with Polly waiting patiently on
the lower step, when she first came to Grandpapa King's. Now she held
Clorinda in her arms, tightly pressed to her bosom.

"I do wish," she said softly, "that I could see my poor little girl, I do."

Clorinda not replying, Phronsie smoothed down the pink gown.

"It wasn't very nice at that little girl's house"--and a troubled
expression swept over her face--"but the little girl was nice, and she
hadn't any child."

Clorinda's countenance expressed no sorrow, but stared up at her mother
unblinkingly. Phronsie bent over and dropped a kiss on the red lips.

"Maybe she'll come again some day, if I watch by the big gate."

"My goodness me!" Polly, running along the upper hall, peered over the
railing. "What are you doing, Phronsie, sitting down in the middle of the
stairs?"

"I'm thinking," said Phronsie, looking up.

"Well, I should say!" cried Polly, running down to sit beside her. "Oh,
Pet, I've an invite for you." She seized Phronsie's hand and cuddled it in
both of her own. "It's perfectly splendid."

"What's an 'invite'?" asked Phronsie, coming slowly out of her thoughts, to
peer into Polly's face.

"Oh, I forgot, Mamsie didn't want me to say that," said Polly, with a
little blush. "Well, it's an invitation, Pet, and to Miss Mary Taylor's, to
go with us girls this afternoon to work on our fancy things for the fair.
Only think of that, Phronsie Pepper!" And Polly threw her arms around the
small figure, and hugged her, to the imminent danger of both falling down
the rest of the flight.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Polly, "we almost went over."

"Can I really go, Polly?" cried Phronsie, as soon as she could get her
breath, "when you all take your bags and work on things?" She set Clorinda
carefully down on the stair above, and stood up to look into Polly's face.

"Yes, child. Take care, you'll tumble over backward," warned Polly, with a
restraining hand. "And oh, Phronsie! I'm going to make you a little silk
bag, and you can take your pin-cushion to work on."

This was such a height of bliss that it quite overcame Phronsie, and she
sat down on her stair again to think it over. To have a little silk bag to
hang on her arm to carry her work in, just as Polly and the other girls did
when they went to each other's houses with their fancy work, was more than
she ever imagined was coming to her till she got as big as they were. And
to put her "cushion-pin" in it, and go to Miss Mary Taylor's with them all,
sent her into such a dream of delight that she sat quite still, her hands
in her lap.

"Don't you like it, Pet?" cried Polly, disappointed at her silence.

Phronsie drew a long breath, then stood up and began to hop up and down on
her stair.

"Oh, Polly," she cried, clapping her hands, "I'm going to have a little
silk bag, I truly am, Polly, all my own--oh!"

"My goodness me, Phronsie!" cried Polly, seizing her arms, "you'll roll
down and break your neck, most likely."

"And I'll take my cushion-pin"--Phronsie leaned over and put her face close
to Polly's cheek--"and I'll sew on it for the poor children, I will," and
she began to hop up and down again.

"Take care, and stop dancing," laughed Polly.

"And it shall be a pink bag," said Phronsie, dreadfully excited; "make it a
pink bag, do, Polly."

"Oh, I don't know that I can do that," said Polly slowly, "because you know
I took my piece of pink ribbon Auntie gave me, for that sachet case I'm
making for the fair. But never mind, child"--as she saw a sorry little
droop to Phronsie's mouth--"I'll find another somewhere, and it will be
nice, even if it isn't pink."

"It will be nice," echoed Phronsie confidently, as long as Polly said so,
and she clasped her hands.

"And come on, Pet, we'll go and find the ribbon and make the bag now, so as
to be all ready." Polly flew up from her stair. "Pick up your doll, and
give me your hand. Here we are!"--as they ran up to the top.

"I very much wish you wouldn't call her my doll," panted Phronsie, as they
reached the last step; "she's my child, Polly."

"I know; I won't forget," laughed Polly. "Now, says I, Phronsie, for my
piece-box!"

The invitation of Miss Mary Taylor to all the girls who were getting up the
fair for the poor children's week, plunged them into such a state of
excitement that those who had been lagging over their fancy work now
spirited up on it, or ran down-street to get more materials and begin anew.
One of these was Clem Forsythe.

"Oh, dear me!" cried Polly, looking up from the floor of her room, where
Phronsie and she had thrown themselves, the piece-box of ribbons between
them, "here comes Clem up the drive; now I 'most know she wants me to help
her on that sofa-pillow," and she twitched a square of yellow silk into a
tighter tangle. "How in the world did that spool get in here?" she
exclaimed, in vexation.

"I'll get it out, let me," begged Phronsie, dropping a fascinating bunch of
gay ribbons she was sorting in the hope of finding a pink one.

"Oh, you can't, child," cried Polly, her impatient fingers making sad work
of the snarl. "There, I'll break the old thing, there's no other way"--as
Clem ran over the stairs and into the room.

"Oh, I'm so glad to find you!" panted Clem. "Dear me! what _are_ you
doing?" And not waiting for an answer, she plunged on: "I stopped at
Alexia's--thought you might be there. And she's just as mad as can be
because I was coming over here for you. You see, her aunt has something for
her to do this morning. I'm tickled to death that for once I got ahead of
her. Whew! I'm so hot! I ran every step of the way." She threw herself down
on the floor beside the two. "My, what a sight of ribbons, Polly Pepper!"

"I'm going to have a silk bag, Clem," confided Phronsie, dropping the
little bunch of ribbons in her lap, to lean over to look into the tall
girl's face, "and I'm going to take my cushion-pin in it."

"Are you, really?" said Clem. "Oh, Polly, you see, I want you to----"

"Yes, I am." Phronsie nodded her yellow head. "Polly is going to make it
right now, she is."

"Is she? Oh, dear!" Clem gave a groan. "Oh, Polly, I did want you to----"

"You see, I promised her this," Polly was guilty of interrupting. "She's
been invited to Miss Mary's this afternoon with us girls, and she wants a
silk bag to carry her work in, too, the same as we big girls have, don't
you, Pet?" Polly stopped long enough in the final tussle with the snarl to
set a kiss on Phronsie's round cheek.

"Yes, I do, Polly," laughed Phronsie, with a wriggle of delight, "and I'm
going to carry my cushion-pin in it, I am."

"So you see I can't help you on your sofa-pillow, Clem," said Polly
hurriedly, feeling dreadfully ashamed to have to say no.

"Oh, I don't want any help on it," said Clem; "I finished that old thing,
Polly."

"Finished your sofa-pillow, Clem!" Polly dropped her snarl in her lap.
"Why, how could you?--and you hadn't the dog worked, except one leg, and
none of the filling in."

"Oh, I don't mean I finished it in that way," said Clem carelessly. "I mean
I'm done with it forever. I just hate that old dog, Polly, and so I gave
the whole thing to our second girl, and she's going to work it for
Christmas and send it to her mother."

"Dear me!" exclaimed Polly, "and now you won't give anything to the fair,"
and her mouth drooped sorrowfully.

"Oh, yes, I will, too," declared Clem cheerfully; "I'll give something ten
times better than that old dog sitting up on a cushion. And nobody would
have bought it when it was done, except my mother--I'd made her--so what's
the use of finishing it? Anyway, I've given it to Bridget; and now I'm
going to make the most elegant thing--you can't guess, Polly Pepper."

"What is it?" cried Polly, with sparkling eyes.

"Oh, that's telling," said Clem, in a tantalizing way. "You must guess."

"Polly," said Phronsie, with a gentle little twitch on her arm, "can you
find any pink ribbon?"

"Yes, yes; I mean no, not yet," said Polly, in a preoccupied way, her eyes
on Clem's face. "Oh, I can't guess; it might be anything, you know, Clem."

"But it isn't; I mean it's something," declared Clem, in great triumph.
"Oh, do hurry, you're so slow, Polly; it's too elegant for anything!"

Polly leaned her face in her hands, and her elbows on her knees. "Mm,
mm--oh, I know!" She brought up suddenly, nearly overthrowing Phronsie, who
had bent anxiously over her. "Take care, Pet, I came near bumping your
nose. It's a workbag."

"A workbag!" exclaimed Clem, in great scorn. "Well, I guess not, Polly
Pepper. What I'm going to make is ever so much better than an old workbag.
Guess again."

At the mention of the workbag, Phronsie had gently pulled Polly's arm. But
Polly was too deep in thought to notice, and she wrinkled her brows, and
bent her head again in her hands. What could it possibly be that Clem was
to make?

"Well, I think it is a sachet bag, then," she said at last.

"An old sachet bag, when all the girls are making oceans of 'em! I should
think you'd be perfectly ashamed, Polly Pepper, to sit there and guess such
things. I'm going to make a most beautiful, embroidered handkerchief case,
with little violets all----"

"Why, you can't, Clem Forsythe!" Polly flew to her feet, sending the ribbon
box flying, and nearly oversetting Phronsie. "You ought not to do any such
thing," she ran on passionately, a little red spot coming on either cheek,
"when you know it'll be just like mine. It would be too mean for anything."

"It won't be just like it," said Clem, twisting uncomfortably, and not
looking up into Polly's face, "for mine is to be a wreath, and yours is a
bunch."

"But it'll be the same thing," cried Polly, too angry to think what she was
saying, "and you're perfectly mean and hateful to copy mine."

"Polly," cried Phronsie, in a distressed little voice. She had gotten up to
her feet, and now hurried over to hold Polly's gown. "Oh, don't, Polly,
don't!"

"Go away," commanded Polly, angrily twitching her gown free; "you don't
know what you are doing, Phronsie, to stop me. She's gone and chosen the
very thing I thought of all by myself."

"I guess there are other violet handkerchief cases in the shops," said Clem
coldly. She was getting over her uncomfortable fit, and now she sprang to
her feet. "And I think you are mean and stingy, too, Polly Pepper"--she
tossed her head high in the air--"to expect to keep all the best things to
yourself, and we're all working ourselves most to death over this old fair.
And I did come to ask you to go down-town with me to buy my materials.
Mother's given me five dollars to spend just as I like--but I shan't ask
you now, so there!" She gave her head another toss, and walked off toward
the door.

Phronsie deserted Polly and ran on unsteady little feet after her.

"Polly isn't mean and stingy," she quavered; "she couldn't be."

Clem looked down at her, and little uncomfortable thrills ran all over her.

"Well, anyway, she's mad at me," she said, with great decision.

"Oh, no, Polly isn't mad," declared Phronsie. She clasped her hands, and
swallowed very hard to keep the tears back, but two big drops escaped and
rolled down her cheeks. When Clem saw those, she turned away.

"Well, anyway, I'm going down-street by myself," she said, without a
backward glance at Polly, and off she went.

"And if she thinks I'm going with her, or care what she does, after this,"
cried Polly, magnificently, with her head in the air, "she'll make a
mistake."

"Polly, Polly!" The tears were rolling fast now, and Phronsie could
scarcely see to stumble back across the room to her side.

"And you don't know anything about it, child. To think of making a violet
handkerchief case, and mine is almost done, and none of the girls would
copy mine! And Jasper drew the flowers on purpose." She was going on so
fast now that she couldn't stop herself.

"Mamsie wouldn't like it," wailed Phronsie, clear gone in distress now, and
hiding her face in Polly's gown.

"Mamsie would say--" began Polly decidedly. Then she stopped suddenly. "Oh,
what have I said!" she cried. "Oh, what can I do!" She clasped her hands
tightly together. She was now in as much distress as Phronsie, and, seeing
this, Phronsie came out of her tears at once.

"You might run after her," she said. "Oh, Polly, do."

"She won't speak to me," said Polly, with a little shiver, and covering her
eyes. "Oh, dear, dear, how could I!"

"Yes, she will, I do believe," said Phronsie, putting down a terrible
feeling at her throat. Not speak to Polly?--such a thing could never be!
"Do run after her, Polly," she begged.

Polly took down her hands and went off with wavering steps to the door.

"I'll get your hat," cried Phronsie, running to the closet.

But Polly, once having decided to make the attempt at a reconciliation, was
off, her brown braids flying back of her in the wind.


IV

MISS TAYLOR'S WORKING BEE


Looking both sides of the road, not daring to think what she would say if
she really did see Clem, Polly sped on. But not a glimpse of the tall
girl's figure met her eyes, and at last she turned in at a gateway and ran
up the little path to the door. Mrs. Forsythe saw her through the window
that opened on the piazza.

"Why, Polly Pepper," she cried, "what a pity that Clem didn't find you! She
went over to your house."

"Oh, I know, I know," panted Polly, with scarlet cheeks.

"Don't try to talk," said Mrs. Forsythe, "you are all out of breath. Come
in, Polly."

"Oh, I can't. I mean I would like to see Clem," mumbled Polly, with an
awful dread, now that she was on the point of finding her, of what she
should say. It was all she could do to keep from running down the piazza
steps and fleeing home as fast as she had come.

"Why, Clem isn't at home," said Mrs. Forsythe, in a puzzled way; "you know
I told you she had gone over to your house. She wanted you to go down-town
with her, to buy some materials to take over to Miss Mary's this afternoon
and begin something new for the fair."

"Oh!" said Polly, in a faint voice, and hanging to the piazza railing.

"You see, she was all tired out over that sofa-pillow. I told her it was
quite too ambitious a piece to do, and she was so discouraged I gave her
some more money, and advised her to get something fresh. She had almost
made up her mind to give up working for the fair altogether."

"Oh, dear me!" gasped Polly, quite overcome.

"Yes." Mrs. Forsythe leaned comfortably against the door-casing. It was
such a comfort to tell her worries to Polly Pepper. "Clem said all the
other girls were making such pretty things, and it was no use for her to
try. She can't get up new ideas quickly, you know, and she was ashamed not
to take in something nice, and so she said she didn't mean to do anything.
I couldn't bear to have her give it up, for she ought to keep with you
girls." Mrs. Forsythe's face fell into anxious lines. "She gets unhappy by
herself, with no young people in the house and only my mother and me to
brighten her up. So I talked with her a long while this morning, and at
last got her to be willing to try again. Well, it's all right now, for
she's started to find you, and go down-town to buy the things," and Mrs
Forsythe smiled happily.

Polly sank to the piazza steps and buried her face in her hands.

"Why, my dear, are you ill?" Clem's mother deserted the door-casing and
came quickly out. "Let me get you something."

"Oh, no, no!" Polly sprang to her feet and hurried down the steps. "I must
go home," she said hoarsely; and not pausing to think, only to get to
Mamsie, she sped away on the wings of the wind, not stopping until she had
turned in at the little green wicket-gate where she wouldn't be likely to
meet any one.

"Oh, dear, dear!"--and she hurried across the grass--"supposing Mamsie
isn't at home! She was going out for Auntie. What _shall_ I do?"

In her despair she raced over the greensward and plunged into the Wistaria
arbor--to stand face to face with Clem!

Polly was too far gone in distress to say anything. Clem jerked up her head
from the table, and raised a defiant pair of cheeks, wet and miserable.
"Oh, dear, dear!" was all Polly could get out. But she stumbled in and put
her arms around her neck, and down went the two heads together.

"I'm awfully sorry," blubbered Clem. "Oh, dear! I forgot my handkerchief."

"Take mine." Polly put a wet little wad into her hand. "Oh, Clem, if you
don't let me go down-town with you and buy that handkerchief case!"

"Let you!" cried Clem. "You won't want to go with me, Polly. But I'm not
going to work a handkerchief case."

"Oh, yes, you are," declared Polly positively. "If you don't, Clem
Forsythe!"

"It was mean in me to choose it," said Clem, beginning to sniffle again,
now that she had a handkerchief.

"Oh, no, no!" said Polly in alarm. "Now I know you won't forgive me when
you say such things. For it was all my fault; I was stingy mean to want to
keep it to myself."

"You aren't ever mean, Polly Pepper!" Clem hugged her so tightly by the
neck that the neat little ruffle Mamsie sewed in that very morning was
quite crushed. When she saw that, Clem was in worse distress than ever.

"See here! Why, Clem Forsythe!" Polly Pepper flew up to her feet so
suddenly, that Clem started in amazement, and stared at her as well as she
could with her eyes full of tears.

"Why, can't you see? Haven't we been two goosies--geese, I mean--not to
think of it before!"

"What?" asked Clem helplessly.

"Why, you might make a violet _glove_ case," said Polly, in a burst.
Then she began to dance around the arbor. "Oh, Clem, how perfectly lovely!"

"I don't see," began Clem dismally, "and I don't know how to make a glove
case."

"Why, make it just like my handkerchief case, only long," flung Polly over
her shoulder, as she danced away.

"But I don't want to copy yours," protested Clem, "for it really would be
mean."

"But this would make a set, yours and mine," said Polly breathlessly, and
coming up to shake the downcast shoulders, "don't you see? Oh, you goosie!
and I've been another, not to think of it before. And oh, such a set! Why,
it would sell for a lot of money. And I'll ask Jasper to draw you the same
kind of bunch of violets on your glove case, and we'll go right down-town,
now. I can make Phronsie's bag when I get home. Come on!"

When Clem once had the idea in her mind, she got off from the bench, and
Phronsie, watching anxiously from Polly's window for her return, saw the
two girls hurrying across the lawn, their arms around each other and
talking busily. And it wasn't but a moment or two, and she was flying over
the grass to meet them. Polly had explained that the little ribbon bag was
to be made just as soon as the materials for the new glove case were
bought. Polly had run up for her hat, and to get her little purse, for she
just remembered that her green silk for the violet stems was nearly out,
and Phronsie had said good-bye and gone back to the house on happy feet, to
tell Clorinda and watch at the window till Polly should come again.

And just after luncheon, for they must start early in order to have a good
long afternoon at Miss Mary's, Polly and Phronsie set forth, the new little
bag hanging from Phronsie's arm. Jasper went with them as far as the
corner, where he turned off to go to Jack Rutherford's, for the boys were
to meet there to write letters for the post office. They had promised to be
there bright and early.

"Oh, Jasper, it was so good of you to draw that dear bunch of violets for
Clem," said Polly for about the fiftieth time; "it was too sweet for
anything."

"Too sweet for anything," hummed Phronsie, all her eyes on her bag,
dangling as she walked.

The train moved quietly, as do all English trains, with no jars and little
sound.

There were few lights outside, for the towns of Eastern England were darkened,
like London, against air attacks.

So when she looked at the window she saw only her own reflection, white
and wide-eyed, above Aunt Harriet's fur neckpiece.

In the next compartment an officer was snoring, but she did not close her
eyes.

Perhaps, for that last hour, some of the glow that had brought her
so far failed her.

She was not able to think beyond Folkestone, save occasionally, and that
with a feeling that it should not be made so difficult to do a
kind and helpful thing.

At a quarter before three the train eased down. In the same proportion
Sara Lee's pulse went up.

A long period of crawling along, a stop or two, but no resultant opening
of the doors; and at last, in a cold rain and a howling wind from the
channel, the little seaport city.

More officers than she had suspected, a few women, got out.

The latter Sara Lee's experience on the steamer enabled her to place;
buyers mostly, and Americans, on their way to Paris, blockade or no
blockade, because the American woman must be well and smartly gowned and
hatted.

A man with a mourning band on his sleeve carried a wailing child.

The officers lighted cigarettes. The civilians formed a line on the jetty
under the roof of the shed, and waited, passports in hand, before
a door that gleamed with yellow light.

Faces looked pale and anxious.
The blockade was on, and Germany had said that no ships would cross
that night.

As if defiantly the Boulogne boat, near at hand, was ablaze, on the shore
side at least, with lights. Stewards came and went.

Beyond it lay the harbor, dark and mysterious save where, from somewhere
across, a flashlight made a brave effort to pierce the fog.

One of the buyers ahead of Sara Lee seemed exhilarated by the danger
ahead.

"They'll never get us," she said. "Look at that fog!"
"It's lifting, dearie," answered a weary voice behind her.

"The wind is carrying it away."
When Sara Lee's turn came she was ready. A group of men in civilian clothes,
seated about a long table, looked her over carefully. Her passports moved
deliberately from hand to hand.

A long business, and the baby wailing harder than ever. But the office
was at least warm.

Some of her failing courage came back as she moved, following her papers,
round the table.

They were given back to her at last, and she went out.
She had passed the first ordeal.

Suitcase in hand she wandered down the stone jetty.

The Boulogne boat she passed, and kept on. At the very end, dark and
sinister, lay another boat. It had no lights. The tide was in, and
its deck lay almost flush with the pier.Dyce, having that desire at this identical time, naturally
felt a bit impatient, as Miss Mary went about inspecting the work, helping
to pick out a stitch here and to set a new one there, admiring everyone's
special bit of prettiness, and tossing a smile and a gay word in every
chance moment between.

"Oh, no," said Miss Mary, with a little laugh, "they're most of them my
Sunday-school scholars, you know."

"That's all the more reason that you ought not to be bothered with them
week days," observed Mr. Dyce. "Now why can't you sit down here and amuse
me?" He pushed up an easy-chair into a cosy-corner, then drew up an
ottoman, on which he sat down.

"Oh, look at that Mr. Dyce," said Clem, quite in a flow of spirits, as she
threaded her needle with a strand of violet silk; "he's going to keep Miss
Mary off there all to himself. What did make him come this afternoon?"

"Well, he isn't going to have Miss Mary!" cried Alexia Rhys, twitching her
pink worsted with an impatient hand. "Horrors! Now I've gone and gotten
that into a precious snarl. The very idea! She's our Sunday-school teacher.
Oh, Miss Mary!" she called suddenly.

Miss Taylor, just sitting down in the easy-chair, turned. "What is it,
Alexia?"--while Mr. Dyce frowned. At which Alexia laughed over at him.

"Please show me about my work," she begged.

"You little tyrant!" called Mr. Dyce, as Miss Mary went over.

"Do I slip one stitch and then knit two?" asked Alexia innocently. Polly,
next to her on a cricket, opened wide eyes.

"Yes," said Miss Mary, "just the same as you have been knitting all along,
Alexia."

"Well, I couldn't think of anything else to ask," said Alexia coolly. Then
she laid hold of Miss Mary's pretty, gray gown.

"Oh, don't go back to him," she implored. "Do stay with us girls, we're all
your Sunday-school class--that is, most of us. _Please_ stay with us,
Miss Mary."

Miss Mary cast an imploring glance over at the gentleman, which he seemed
to see, although apparently he wasn't looking.

"Phronsie, you and I will have to move over, I think"; for by this time he
had her in his lap; and so he bundled her across the room unceremoniously.

"Oh, I've lost my needle!" cried Phronsie, peering out from his arms in
great distress.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Mr. Dyce; so he set her down and dropped to all-fours
to peer about for the shining little implement, Phronsie getting down on
her knees to assist the search.

Alexia, seeing the trouble, deserted her knitting, and flew out of her
chair to help look for it.

"You little tyrant!" exclaimed Mr. Dyce, as she added herself to the group,
"to call Miss Mary over there! I should think it was quite bad enough to
have you Sundays, Alexia."

"Miss Mary thinks a great deal of me," said Alexia composedly. "Dear me,
what a plaguey little thing that needle is! Never mind, Phronsie, don't
feel badly. I guess--oh, here it is, and sticking straight up."

"And all this would never have happened but for your calling Miss Mary
away," observed Mr. Dyce, getting up straight again. "What a little
nuisance you are, Alexia!" All of which she had heard from him so many
times before that it failed to disturb her, so she went back to her seat in
high spirits, Phronsie hopping over like a small rabbit to a little cricket
at Polly's feet. At this there was a bustle among the girls.

"Sit next to me, Miss Mary," begged Silvia Horne, sweeping a chair clear.

"No, no," cried Amy Garrett, "she's coming here!"

"I call that nice," exclaimed Alexia decidedly, "when I asked her to come
across the room! I'm going to sit next to her of course."

"You'd much better have stayed with me," laughed Mr. Hamilton Dyce, "since
there'll be one long fight over you. Better come back."

But Miss Mary, protesting that the girls needed her, finally settled it by
getting her chair into the middle of the group, which she made into a
circle.

"There, now, we're all comfy together," she announced. "Now, Mr. Dyce, you
must read us something."

"Oh, tell us a story," put in Alexia, who didn't relish listening to
reading.

"Oh, yes, a story, a story," they one and all took it up. Even Phronsie
laid down her big needle which she was patiently dragging back and forth,
with a very long piece of red worsted following its trail across the face
of her "cushion-pin" in a way to suit her own design, to beg for the story.

"Oh, Phronsie!" exclaimed Polly, for the first time catching sight of this,
"you can't work with such a long thread. Let me cut off some of it, do."

"Oh, no, no," protested Phronsie, edging off in alarm.

"Why, it'll get all knotted up," said Polly, in concern; "you better let me
take off a little--just a little, teenty bit, Phronsie."

"No, no," declared Phronsie decidedly, "I must hurry and get my cushion-pin
done."

"She thinks she'll get it done faster with a great, long thread," giggled
one of the girls over in the corner. Mr. Dyce turning to fix her with a
stare, she subsided, ducking behind her neighbor's back.

"Phronsie, I must buy that cushion-pin at the fair," he announced. "I want
such an one very much indeed."

Phronsie got off from the little cricket where he had placed her, and went
straight over to him, to lay her hand with the "cushion-pin" in it on his
knee. "Then I will sell it to you," she said gravely, "and the poor
children can go into the country." Then she went back to her seat and took
up her work once more.

Some of the girls laughed, but Alexia frowned furiously at them; and Mr.
Dyce and Miss Mary apparently seeing no amusement in it, they all began to
beg for the story again, till the clamor bade fair to stop the needles from
doing their work.

"I guess you'll have to," Miss Mary smiled over at him from the center of
the circle, while the color deepened on her cheek.

"I want a story told to me first," he said coolly, leaning back in his
chair. "What is all this bee for, and this fair? I know just a hint about
that, but let me have the whole story from beginning to end. Now then, some
one tell me. I am very anxious to hear."

"You tell, Polly," cried Alexia, and "Let Polly Pepper tell, can't she,
Miss Mary?" begged all the girls, every one saying the same thing. So Miss
Mary said yes, and Polly laid down her violet handkerchief case in her lap,
although she hated to stop working, and began:

"You see, Miss Mary said one day in Sunday-school----"

"Oh, Polly, not that!" said Miss Taylor, in dismay.

"Go on, Polly, and tell every word," said Mr. Hamilton Dyce. "I'm to be
told the whole story; from the very beginning, now mind. You said, 'One day
in Sunday-school.' Now go on."

"Yes," said Polly, her cheeks like a rose for fear her dear Miss Mary might
not like it, "Miss Mary said we ought to be doing things, not always
talking about them and learning how to be good; and she said there were so
many poor children who were waiting for us to help them. 

[2] Descent of Man, p. 68, 1871.

In vol. ii. p. 19 occurs a reference, in a note, to Mr. Hartland's
criticism of my ideas about Australian gods as set forth in the
Making of Religion. Mr. Hartland, who kindly read the chapters on
Australian religion in this book, does not consider that my note on p. 19
meets the point of his argument. As to the Australians, I mean no more
than that, AMONG endless low myths, some of them possess a belief
in a "maker of everything," a primal being, still in existence,
watching conduct, punishing breaches of his laws, and, in some
cases, rewarding the good in a future life.

Of course these are the germs of a sympathetic religion, even if the being
thus regarded is mixed up with immoral or humorous contradictory
myths.

My position is not harmed by such myths, which occur in all old
religions, and, in the middle ages, new myths were attached to the
sacred figures of Christianity in poetry and popular tales.

Thus, if there is nothing "sacred" in a religion because wild or wicked
fables about the gods also occur, there is nothing "sacred" in almost any
religion on earth.

Mr. Hartland's point, however, seems to be that, in the Making of
Religion, I had selected certain Australian beliefs as especially
"sacred" and to be distinguished from others, because they are
inculcated at the religious Mysteries of some tribes.

His aim, then, is to discover low, wild, immoral myths, inculcated at the
Mysteries, and thus to destroy my line drawn between religion on one hand
and myth or mere folk-lore on the other. Thus there is a being named
Daramulun, of whose rites, among the Coast Murring, I condensed
the account of Mr.

Howitt.[1] From a statement by Mr.
Greenway[2] Mr. Hartland learned that Daramulun's name is said to mean "leg
on one side" or "lame".

He, therefore, with fine humour, speaks of Daramulun as "a creator with a
game leg," though when "Baiame" is derived by two excellent linguists,
Mr. Ridley and Mr.
Greenway, from Kamilaroi baia, "to make," Mr.

Hartland is by no means so sure of the sense of the name. It happens
to be inconvenient to him! Let the names mean what they may, Mr.
Hartland finds, in an obiter dictum of Mr.

Howitt (before he was initiated), that Daramulun is said to have "died,"
and that his spirit is now aloft.

Who says so, and where, we are not informed,[3] and the question is
important.

[1] J. A. I., xiii. pp. 440-459.

[2] Ibid., xxi. p. 294.

[3] Ibid., xiii. p. 194.

For the Wiraijuri, IN THEIR MYSTERIES, tell a myth of cannibal conduct of
Daramulun's, and of deceit and failure of knowledge in Baiame.[1]
Of this I was unaware, or neglected it, for I explicitly said that
I followed Mr.

Howitt's account, where no such matter is mentioned. Mr. Howitt, in fact,
described the Mysteries of the Coast Murring, while the narrator
of the low myths, Mr.

Matthews, described those of a remote tribe, the Wiraijuri, with
whom Daramulun is not the chief, but a subordinate person.

How Mr.
Matthews' friends can at once hold that Daramulun was "destroyed" by
Baiame (their chief deity), and also that Daramulun's voice is
heard at their rites, I don't know.[2] Nor do I know why Mr.

Hartland takes the myth of a tribe where Daramulun is "the evil spirit
who rules the night,"[3] and introduces it as an argument against the
belief of a distant tribe, where, by Mr. Howitt's account, Daramulun is
not an evil spirit, but "the master" of all, whose abode is above the sky,
and to whom are attributed powers of omnipotence and omnipresence,
or, at any rate, the power "to do anything and to go anywhere. . . .

To his direct ordinances are attributed the social and moral laws of the
community."[4] This is not "an evil spirit"! When Mr. Hartland goes for
scandals to a remote tribe of a different creed that he may discredit
the creed of the Coast Murring, he might as well attribute to the
Free Kirk "the errors of Rome".

But Mr. Hartland does it!

[5] Being "cunning of fence" he may reply that I also spoke loosely of
Wiraijuri and Coast Murring as, indifferently, Daramulunites.

I did, and I was wrong, and my critic ought not to accept but to expose
my error.

The Wiraijuri Daramulun, who was annihilated, yet who is "an evil
spirit that rules the night," is not the Murring guardian and founder
of recognised ethics

.

[1] J. A. I., xxv. p. 297.

[2] Ibid., May, 1895, p. 419.

[3] Ibid.

[4] Ibid., xiii. pp. 458, 459.

[5] Folk-Lore, ix., No. iv., p. 299.

But, in the Wiraijuri mysteries, the master, Baiame, deceives the
women as to the Mysteries!

Shocking to US, but to deceive the women as to these arcana, is, to the
Australian mind in general, necessary for the safety of the world. Moreover,
we have heard of a lying spirit sent to deceive prophets in a much
higher creed.

Finally, in a myth of the Mystery of the Wiraijuri, Baiame is not
omniscient.

Indeed, even civilised races cannot keep on the level of these religious
conceptions, and not to keep on that level is-- mythology.

Apollo, in the hymn to Hermes, sung on a sacred occasion, needs to ask an
old vine-dresser for intelligence.

Hyperion "sees all and hears all," but needs to be informed, by his
daughters, of the slaughter of his kine.

The Lord, in the Book of Job, has to ask Satan, "Whence comest thou?" Now for
the sake of dramatic effect, now from pure inability to live on
the level of his highest thought, man mythologises and anthropomorphises,
in Greece or Israel, as in Australia.

It does not follow that there is "nothing sacred" in his religion.

Mr. Hartland offers me a case in point. In Mrs. Langloh Parker's Australian
Legendary Tales (pp. 11, 94), are myths of low adventures of Baiame.
In her More Australian Legendary Tales (pp.
84-99), is a very poetical and charming aspect of the Baiame belief.

Mr. Hartland says that I will "seek to put" the first set of stories out of
court, as "a kind of joke with no sacredness about it". Not I, but the
Noongahburrah tribe themselves make this essential distinction. Mrs.

Langloh Parker says:[1] "The former series" (with the low
Baiame myths) "were all such legends as are told to the black
picaninnies; among the present are some they would not be allowed
to hear, touching as they do on sacred things, taboo to the young".

The blacks draw the line which I am said to seek to draw

.

[1] More Legendary Tales, p. xv.

In yet another case[1] grotesque hunting adventures of Baiame are told
in the mysteries, and illustrated by the sacred temporary representations
in raised earth. I did not know it; I merely followed Mr. Howitt.
But I do not doubt it.

My reply is, that there was "something sacred" in Greek mysteries, something
purifying, ennobling, consoling. For this Lobeck has collected (and
disparaged) the evidence of Pindar, Sophocles, Cicero and many
others, while even Aristophanes, as Prof.

Campbell remarks, says:

"We only have bright sun and cheerful life who have been initiated
and lived piously in regard to strangers and to private citizens".[2]
Security and peace of mind, in this world and for the next, were,
we know not how, borne into the hearts of Pindar and Sophocles in
the Mysteries.

Yet, if we may at all trust the Fathers, there were scenes of debauchery,
as at the Mysteries of the Fijians (Nanga) there was buffoonery ("to
amuse the boys," Mr.
Howitt says of some Australian rites), the story of Baubo is only one
example, and, in other mysteries than the Eleusinian, we know of mummeries
in which an absurd tale of Zeus is related in connection with an
oak log. Yet surely there was "something sacred" in the faith of Zeus!
Let us judge the Australians as we judge Greeks. The precepts as to
"speaking the straightforward truth," as to unselfishness, avoidance
of quarrels, of wrongs to "unprotected women," of unnatural vices,
are certainly communicated in the Mysteries of some tribes, with,
in another, knowledge of the name and nature of "Our Father,"
Munganngaur.

That a Totemistic dance, or medicine-dance of Emu hunting, is also
displayed[3] at certain Mysteries of a given tribe, and that Baiame is
spoken of as the hero of this ballet, no more deprives the Australian
moral and religious teaching (at the Mysteries) of sacred value,
than the stupid indecency whereby Baubo made Demeter laugh destroys
the sacredness of the Eleusinia, on which Pindar, Sophocles and
Cicero eloquently dwell.

If the Australian mystae, at the most solemn moment of their lives,
are shown a dull or dirty divine ballet d'action, what did Sophocles
see, after taking a swim with his pig?

Many things far from edifying, yet the sacred element of religious hope and
faith was also represented.

So it is in Australia.

[1] J. A. I., xxiv. p. 416.

[2] Religion in Greek Literature, p. 259.

It is to be regretted that the learned professor gives no references.
The Greek Mysteries are treated later in this volume.

[3] See A picture of Australia, 1829, p. 264.

These studies ought to be comparative, otherwise they are worthless.
As Mr.

Hartland calls Daramulun "an eternal Creator with a game leg" who
"died," he may call Zeus an "eternal father, who swallowed his wife,
lay with his mother and sister, made love as a swan, and died, nay,
was buried, in Crete".

I do not think that Mr. Hartland would call Zeus "a ghost-god" (my own
phrase), or think that he was scoring a point against me, if I spoke of
the sacred and ethical characteristics of the Zeus adored by Eumaeus
in the Odyssey.

He would not be so humorous about Zeus, nor fall into an ignoratio
elenchi.

For my point never was that any Australian tribe had a pure theistic
conception unsoiled and unobliterated by myth and buffoonery. My argument
was that AMONG their ideas is that of a superhuman being, unceasing (if I
may not say eternal), a maker (if I may not say a Creator), a guardian of
certain by no means despicable ethics, which I never proclaimed
as supernormally inspired!

It is no reply to me to say that, in or out of Mysteries, low fables
about that being are told, and buffooneries are enacted. For, though I
say that certain high ideas are taught in Mysteries, I do not think I say
that in Mysteries no low myths are told.

I take this opportunity, as the earliest, to apologise for an error
in my Making of Religion concerning a passage in the Primitive
Culture of my friend Mr.

E. B. Tylor. Mr.

Tylor quoted[1] a passage from Captain John Smith's History of Virginia,
as given in Pinkerton, xiii. pp. 13-39, 1632. In this passage no mention
occurs of a Virginian deity named Ahone but "Okee," another and
more truculent god, is named.

I observed that, if Mr. Tylor had used Strachey's Historie of Travaile
(1612), he would have found "a slightly varying copy" of Smith's text
of 1632, with Ahone as superior to Okee. I added in a note (p. 253): "There
is a description of Virginia, by W. Strachey, including Smith's remarks
published in 1612. Strachey interwove some of this work with his own MS.
in the British Museum."

Here, as presently will be shown, I erred, in company with Strachey's
editor of 1849, and with the writer on Strachey in the Dictionary of
National Biography. What Mr. Tylor quoted from an edition of Smith in 1632
had already appeared, in 1612, in a book (Map of Virginia, with a
description of the Countrey) described on the title-page as "written by
Captain Smith," though, in my opinion, Smith may have had a
collaborator.

There is no evidence whatever that Strachey had anything to do with
this book of 1612, in which there is no mention of Ahone.

Mr.
Arber dates Strachey's own MS. (in which Ahone occurs) as of 1610- 1615.[2]
I myself, for reasons presently to be alleged, date the MS. mainly in
1611-1612. If Mr. Arber and I are right, Strachey must have had access to
Smith's MS. before it was published in 1612, and we shall see how he
used it.

My point here is that Strachey mentioned Ahone (in MS.) before
Smith's book of 1612 was published.

This could not be gathered from the dedication to Bacon prefixed to
Strachey's MS., for that dedication cannot be earlier that 1618.[3]
I now ask leave to discuss the evidence for an early pre-Christian
belief in a primal Creator, held by the Indian tribes from Plymouth,
in New England, to Roanoke Island, off Southern Virginia

.

[1] Prim. Cult. ii. p. 342.

[2] Arber's Smith, p. cxxxiii.

[3] Hakluyt Society, Strachey, 1849, pp. xxi., xxii.

THE GOD AHONE.

An insertion by a manifest plagiary into the work of a detected liar is not,
usually, good evidence. Yet this is all the evidence, it may be urged,
which we have for the existence of a belief, in early Virginia,
as to a good Creator, named Ahone.

The matter stands thus: In 1607-1609 the famed Captain John Smith endured
and achieved in Virginia sufferings and adventures.

In 1608 he sent to the Council at home a MS. map and description of the
colony.

In 1609 he returned to England (October). In May, 1610, William Strachey,
gent., arrived in Virginia, where he was "secretary of state" to Lord De
la Warr. In 1612 Strachey and Smith were both in England.

In that year Barnes of Oxford published A Map of Virginia, with a
description, etc., "written by Captain Smith," according to the
title-page.

There was annexed a compilation from various sources, edited by "W. S.,"
that is, NOT William Strachey, but Dr. William Symonds. In the same year,
1612, or in 1611, William Strachey wrote his Historie of Travaile
into Virginia Britannia, at least as far as page 124 of the Hakluyt
edition of 1849.[1]
[1] For proof see p. 24. third line from foot of page, where 1612
is indicated.

Again, see p. 98, line 5, where "last year" is dated as "1610, about
Christmas," which would put Strachey's work at this point as
actually of 1611; prior, that is, to Smith's publication.

Again, p. 124, "this last year, myself being at the Falls" (of the
James River), "I found in an Indian house certain clawes . . .
which I brought away and into England".

If Strachey, who went out with Lord De la Warr as secretary in 1610,
returned with him (as is likely), he sailed for England on 28th
March, 1611.

In that case, he was in England in 1611, and the passages cited leave it
dubious whether he wrote his book in 1611, 1612, or in both years.[1]

[1] Mr. Arber dates the MS. "1610-1615," and attributes to Strachey Laws for
Virginia, 1612.

Strachey embodies in his work considerable pieces of Smith's Map of
Virginia and Description, written in 1608, and published in 1612.

He continually deserts Smith, however, adding more recent information,
reflections and references to the ancient classics, with allusions to his
own travels in the Levant. His glossary is much more extensive than Smith's,
and he inserts a native song of triumph over the English in the
original.[1] Now, when Strachey comes to the religion of the
natives[2] he gives eighteen pages (much of it verbiage) to five
of Smith's.[3] What Smith (1612) says of their chief god I quote,
setting Strachey's version (1611- 1612) beside it

.

[1] Strachey, pp. 79-80.

He may have got the song from Kemps or Machumps, friendly natives.

[2] Pp. 82-100.

[3] Arber, pp. 74-79.

SMITH (Published, 1612).

But their chiefe God they worship is the Diuell. Him they call Oke, and serue
him more of feare than loue.

They say they haue conference with him, and fashion themselues as neare to
his shape as they can imagine.

In their Temples, they have his image euile favouredly carved, and
then painted, and adorned with chaines, copper, and beades; and
couered with a skin, in such manner as the deformity may well suit
with such a God.

By him is commonly the sepulcher of their Kings.

STRACHEY (Written, 1611-12).

But their chief god they worship is no other, indeed, then the divell, whome
they make presentments of, and shadow under the forme of an idoll, which
they entitle Okeus, and whome they worship as the Romans did their hurtful
god Vejovis, more for feare of harme then for hope of any good;
they saie they have conference with him, and fashion themselves in
their disguisments as neere to his shape as they can imagyn.

In every territory of a weroance is a temple and a priest, peradventure
two or thrie; yet happie doth that weroance accompt himself who can
detayne with him a Quiyough- quisock, of the best, grave, lucky,
well instructed in their misteryes, and beloved of their god; and
such a one is noe lesse honoured then was Dianae's priest at Ephesus,
for whome they have their more private temples, with oratories and
chauneells therein, according as is the dignity and reverence of
the Quiyough-quisock, which the weroance wilbe at charge to build
upon purpose, sometyme twenty foote broad and a hundred in length,
fashioned arbour wyse after their buylding, having comonly the dore
opening into the east, and at the west end a spence or chauncell
from the body of the temple, with hollow wyndings and pillers,
whereon stand divers black imagies, fashioned to the shoulders,
with their faces looking down the church, and where within their
weroances, upon a kind of biere of reedes, lye buryed; and under
them, apart, in a vault low in the ground (as a more secrett thing),
vailed with a matt, sitts their Okeus, an image ill-favouredly
carved, all black dressed, with chaynes of perle, the presentment
and figure of that god (say the priests unto the laity, and who
religiously believe what the priests saie) which doth them all the
harme they suffer, be yt in their bodies or goods, within doores
or abroad; and true yt is many of them are divers tymes (especyally
offendors) shrewdly scratched as they walke alone in the woods, yt
may well be by the subtyle spirit, the malitious enemy to mankind,
whome, therefore, to pacefie and worke to doe them good (at least
no harme) the priests tell them they must do these and these
sacrifices unto [them] of these and these things, and thus and thus
often, by which meanes not only their owne children, but straungers,
are sometimes sacrificed unto him: whilst the great god (the priests
tell them) who governes all the world, and makes the sun to shine,
creating the moone and stars his companyons, great powers, and which
dwell with him, and by whose virtues and influences the under earth
is tempered, and brings forth her fruiets according to her seasons,
they calling Ahone; the good and peaceable god requires no such
dutyes, nor needes be sacrificed unto, for he intendeth all good
unto them, and will doe noe harme, only the displeased Okeus, looking
into all men's accions, and examining the same according to the
severe scale of justice, punisheth them with sicknesse, beats them,
and strikes their ripe corn with blastings, stormes, and thunder
clapps, stirrs up warre, and makes their women falce unto them.

Such is the misery and thraldome under which Sathan hath bound these
wretched miscreants.

I began by calling Strachey a plagiary. The reader will now observe that he
gives far more than he takes.

For example, his account of the temples is much more full than that of
Smith, and he adds to Smith's version the character and being of
Ahone, as what "the priests tell them".

I submit, therefore, that Strachey's additions, if valid for temples,
are not discredited for Ahone, merely because they are inserted in
the framework of Smith.

As far as I understand the matter, Smith's Map of Virginia (1612) is
an amended copy, with additions, by Smith or another writer of
that description, which he sent home to the Council of Virginia,
in November, 1608.[1] To the book of 1612 was added a portion of
"Relations" by different hands, edited by W.

S., namely, Dr.

Symonds. Strachey's editor, in 1849, regarded W. S. as Strachey, and supposed
that Strachey was the real author of Smith's Map of Virginia, so that,
in his Historie of Travaile, Strachey merely took back his own.

He did not take back his own; he made use of Smith's MS., not yet published,
if Mr. Arber and I rightly date Strachey's MS. at 1610-15, or 1611-12.
Why Strachey acted thus it is possible to conjecture.

As a scholar well acquainted with Virginia, and as Secretary for the
Colony, he would have access to Smith's MS. of 1608 among the papers
of the Council, before its publication. Smith professes himself "no
scholer".[2] On the other hand, Strachey likes to show off his
Latin and Greek.

He has a curious, if inaccurate, knowledge of esoteric Greek and Roman
religious antiquities, and in writing of religion aims at a comparative
method. Strachey, however, took the trouble to copy bits of Smith into
his own larger work, which he never gave to the printers

.

[1] Arber, p. 444.

[2] Arber, p. 442.

Now as to Ahone. It suits my argument to suppose that Strachey's account is
no less genuine than his description of the temples (illustrated
by a picture by John White, who had been in Virginia in 1589), and
the account of the Great Hare of American mythology.[1] This view
of a Virginian Creator, "our chief god" "who takes upon him this
shape of a hare," was got, says Strachey, "last year, 1610," from
a brother of the Potomac King, by a boy named Spilman, who says
that Smith "sold" him to Powhattan.[2] In his own brief narrative
Spelman (or Spilman) says nothing about the Cosmogonic Legend of
the Great Hare.

"Why, you are hurting me like Grandpapa, Mamsie."

"Oh, my child!" Mother Fisher seemed to forget herself, as she bowed her
head over Phronsie's yellow hair.

"What is the matter, Mamsie?" asked Phronsie. "I wish I could see your
face," and she wriggled violently.

"Nothing is the matter now," said Mamsie. "There, child, now I'll tell you.
If the little girl stays here, she----"

"She's my little girl," interrupted Phronsie.

"Well, if she stays here, she must be washed and have on clean clothes. So
Sarah has taken her, and is going to fix her all up nice."

"Oh--oh!" cried Phronsie, in a transport, "and can she have some of Polly's
clothes, Mamsie?"

"Yes, I guess so. Anyway, we will fix her up all nicely."

"And may she stay here for ever and ever," cried Phronsie, "and not go back
to that un-nice old lady? Please, Mamsie, don't let her go back," she
pleaded.

Over the yellow hair the old gentleman had found out and communicated
several things back and forth. One was, "I don't think she is the child's
own grandmother." "Mr. Cabot can investigate," and so on.

"What are you whispering about?" at last asked Phronsie.

"Nothing that you should know, dear. Now I'm going to put you in
Grandpapa's lap, Phronsie. You must be a good girl," and Mother Pepper went
off.

"You must take care of me, Phronsie," said the old gentleman, "for I really
think I need it now. And I guess my hair does want to be smoothed, after
all."

"I'll stay and take care of you, Grandpapa," said Phronsie, delighted that
her services were really to be called for, and with her heart at rest about
her own poor little girl.


VI

GRANDMA BASCOM


"Deary me!" Grandma Bascom stopped shooing out the hens from her kitchen
doorway, and leaned on the broom-handle. "If here don't come Mis'
Henderson! Now I shall hear about that blessed little creeter and all the
rest of them childern."

"Good-afternoon." The parson's wife went swiftly up the flag-bordered path
between the lilac bushes. "It's a beautiful day, Mrs. Bascom."

"Hey?" Grandma's shaking hand went up to her cap-border, so Mrs. Henderson
had to say it over, that it was a beautiful day, as loud as she could.

"You've come to-day?" said Grandma.

"Yes, I see you have, an' I'm obleeged to you, I'm sure, for it's mighty
lonesome since that blessed little creeter, an' all the rest of them
childern went away. Come in an' set down," and she led the way into the
kitchen.

Meanwhile, the hens, seeing nothing to prevent it, had employed the time in
slipping in under Grandma's short gown, and were busily scratching around
for any stray bits.

"Thank you." The parson's wife nimbly found a chair, while Grandma bustled
into the bedroom.

"Excuse me a minute, Mis' Henderson," she called; "I'm goin' to slip on
t'other cap."

"Oh, don't take the trouble," said Mrs. Henderson's pleasant voice. But she
might as well have said nothing, for Grandma didn't hear a word.

"'Tain't proper to see your minister's wife in your mornin' cap, nor your
petticoat neither for that matter," said Grandma to herself, looking down
at her short gown. So she concluded to put on her Sunday-go-to-meeting
gown, as she called her best dress. This took her so long, because she
hooked it up wrong three times, that Mrs. Henderson appeared in the doorway
before the operation of dressing-up could be said to be finished.

"I'm very sorry," she began.

"'Tain't a bit o' trouble," said Grandma cheerfully, pulling at the second
hook, which she had been trying for some time to get into the first eye;
"you set down, Mis' Henderson, an' I'll be out pretty soon."

"I must go very soon." The parson's wife came quite close to say this, up
under the frill of the best cap, which stood out very stiffly, as Grandma
always kept it in a covered box on top of her high bureau.

"Hey?"

"I must go home soon. I have so many things to see to this afternoon."

It was a fatally long speech, for Grandma only attended to the last part.

"It's aft-noon? I know it. I'm comin' 's soon 's I can git this hooked
up"--with another pull at the mismated hooks and eyes. Seeing this, in
despair the parson's wife took the matter of hooking up into her own hands,
and before long the Sunday-go-to-meeting gown could be said to be fairly
on.

"Now that's something like," observed Grandma, in great satisfaction. "I
hain't been hooked up by any one since Mis' Pepper went away. Deary me, how
I should set by a sight o' her, an' th' blessed little creeter--there ain't
none other like that child."

Mrs. Henderson nodded, being sparing of words.

"I've some letters from them," she said loudly, "and if you come out to the
kitchen, I will stay and read them to you."

"What did you say was the matter in the kitchen?" demanded Grandma, in
alarm. "Oh, them dirty hens, I s'pose, has got in again."

"I have letters from the Pepper children, and they ask me to come over here
and read them to you," shouted Mrs. Henderson. "Dear me!"--to
herself--"what shall I do? I'm all tired out already, and three letters to
read--she won't hear a word."

But Grandma, having caught the word "letters," knew quite well what was in
store, so, picking up her best gown by its side breadths, she waddled out
and seated herself with great dignity in a big chair by the kitchen window.
It was next to the little stand in whose drawer she used to let Joel Pepper
look for peppermints.

When the Pepper children shut up the little brown house to go to Mr.
King's, Grandma moved the small mahogany stand from its place next to the
head of her bed out into the kitchen. She kept her big Bible on it, and her
knitting work, where she could "have 'em handy." And it made her feel less
lonesome to look up from her work to see it standing there.

"Seem's though that boy was a-comin' in every minute," she said. "My land
o' Goshen, don't I wish he was!" for Grandma always had a soft spot in her
heart for Joel.

Now she smoothed down her front breadth, and folded her hands in a company
way. The parson's wife drew up a kitchen chair close to her side and
unfolded the first letter.

"Who writ that?" asked Grandma eagerly.

"That's from Polly," said Mrs. Henderson.

"Bless her heart!" cried Grandma. "Well, what does she say?"

"Ma"--a light-haired, serious boy appeared in the doorway--"Pa wants you,"
he announced.

"Oh, Peletiah!" exclaimed the parson's wife, in consternation, at his
unlooked-for appearance, and, "Oh, Grandma!" in the same breath, "I'm so
sorry I must go."

"So sorry? What's ben a happenin' that Polly's sorry?" said Grandma,
supposing that was in the letter. "Now I know that blessed little creeter
has got hurt, an' they wouldn't let me know afore the rest."

"It isn't in the letter," declared Mrs. Henderson, in a loud, hasty tone,
hurrying out of her chair. "Peletiah, what does your father want, do you
know?"

"I don't know exactly," said Peletiah deliberately, "only Aunt Jerusha
tumbled down the cellar stairs; maybe that's it."

"Oh, dear me! dear me!" cried the parson's wife, in a great fright.
"Peletiah, here are the letters from the Pepper children"--thrusting them
into his hand--"do you stay and read them to Grandma. And be sure to tell
her why I went home," and she actually ran out of the kitchen, and down the
lilac-bordered path.

Peletiah, left alone with the letters, turned them over and over in his
hands, as he stood quite still in the middle of the kitchen floor. He never
thought of disobeying, and presently he pulled up another chair, just in
front of Grandma, and sat slowly down.

"Oh, I know she's got hurted bad," she kept groaning, "an' I shan't never
see her again. Oh, the pretty creeter! Hain't she hurted bad?" she asked
anxiously, bringing her cap frills to bear on the boy in front.

"Yes, I guess so," said Peletiah cheerfully; "she fell way down all over
the cat sitting on the stairs."

"Where'd you say she fell?" screamed Grandma.

"Cellar stairs," Peletiah raised his voice, too, and sprawled out his hands
to show how his Aunt Jerusha must have descended.

"Oh, me! oh, my!" exclaimed Grandma, in great sorrow, "that blessed little
creeter! to think she's fell and got hurted!"

"She ain't little," said Peletiah, who was extremely literal, "she's awful
long and bony!" And he could think of no special reason for calling her
blessed, but that might be Grandma's fancy.

"Well, read them letters," said Grandma mournfully, when she could control
her speech enough to say anything; "maybe they'll tell more about the
accident," and she put her hand again behind her best ear.

"'Tain't in the letters," said Peletiah, "it's only just happened." But
Grandma didn't hear, so he picked up Polly's letter, which was open, and
began in a singsong tone:

"'Dear Mrs. Henderson--'"

"Hey?"

"'Dear Mrs. Henderson,'" cried Peletiah, in a shrill, high key.

"Do move up closer; I'm a little hard o' hearin'--jist a mite," said
Grandma. So Peletiah shoved his chair nearer, and began again:

"'Dear Mrs. Henderson, we are going to have the very loveliest thing
happen, and I want to write to you now, because next week there won't be
any time at all, we shall be so very busy.'"

It was impossible to stop Peletiah until he had rounded a sentence, as he
considered it his duty to pay strict attention to a period. So, although
Grandma screamed, and even twitched his jacket sleeve, she couldn't get him
to stop. The consequence was that he had to shout this over till at last
she understood it, and then she turned a bewildered face upon him, but as
he was deep in his second sentence, he didn't see it, but plodded patiently
on.

"'Grandpapa is going to let us have a garden party; there are tickets to be
sold, for we are going to raise money to send poor children out into the
country. And Jasper is getting up the post office, which Grandpapa says we
may have in the Wistaria arbor. And we girls are all making fancy work,
and oh, Phronsie is making a pin-cushion which Mr. Hamilton Dyce has bought
already. Just think, and oh, I do believe we shall make lots and lots of
money! Give my love to dear, dear Grandma Bascom, and please read this
letter to her. From your loving little friend, Polly.'"

Peletiah, considering it better to read this all as one sentence, had
droned it out without a break, to look up and find Grandma sunken back
against her chair, her cap frills trembling with indignation.

"I hain't heard a single word," she said, "an' there's that blessed child
got hurt, an' I can't seem to sense it at all."

"She ain't hurt, Polly ain't," said Peletiah, stoutly defending himself.
"They're going to have a garden party."

"A what?" screamed Grandma.

"A _garden_ party."

"Oh, then she fell in the garding, an' you said cellar stairs," she cried
reproachfully.

Peletiah looked at her long; then he got out of his chair and leaned over
her.

"My Aunt Jerusha fell," he screamed, so loud that Grandma started.

"Oh, an' the Pepper children ain't hurt?" she cried, in great relief.

"No, they're going to have a party." He wisely left out the garden this
time.

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Grandma, greatly pleased at the hint of any
festivities, no matter how distant, and the smiles began to run all over
her wrinkled face again. "I wonder now," she said, "if they don't want my
receet for Cousin Mirandy's weddin' cake; it's in th' Bible there"--nodding
over to the little stand.

Peletiah, seeing her so absorbed, waited patiently till the second letter
was called for. He never for an instant thought of sliding off; so he
pulled it out of its envelope, and got ready.

At last Grandma pulled herself out of the charms of Cousin Mirandy's
receet, and set her spectacles straight.

"Who writ that one?" she asked.

"Joel," said Peletiah, finding it quite to his liking to read this one, for
Joel never wasted any time in preliminaries, but came to the point at once,
in big, sprawly letters.

"'Dear Misses Henderson.'" Somebody must have corrected him then, for he
scratched out the "Misses," and wrote on top "Mrs." "'You tell Grandma
Bascom, please, that it's just prime here, but I like her peppermints, too,
and I won't chase her old hens when I come back. Joel.'"

When Grandma really got this letter by heart, she laughed and said it had
done her good, and she wished Joel was there this minute, in which Peletiah
hardly concurred, being unable to satisfy Joel's athletic demands. And then
she looked over at the little mahogany stand, and the tears rolled down her
withered old cheeks.

"I'd give anythin' to see him comin' in at that door, Peletiah," she said,
"an' he may chase th' hens all he wants to when he comes back"; for Grandma
always cherished the conviction that the "Five Little Peppers" were to make
life merry again in their "little brown house," and she went on so long in
this way that Peletiah, who had glanced up at the clock many times, said at
last, in a stolid way, "There's another letter." And Grandma, looking down,
saw a little wad in his hand.

"Now I do believe that's from the blessed little creeter," she exclaimed,
very much excited; "that must be Phronsie's."

"Yes, it is," said Peletiah.

"Why didn't you tell me that before?" cried Grandma. "You should 'a' read
it first of all." She leaned forward in her chair, unable to lose a word.

"You didn't tell me to," said Peletiah, in a matter-of-fact way.

"Well, read it now," said Grandma, quavering with excitement.

"There ain't nothin' to read," said Peletiah, unfolding the paper, many
times creased.

"Hey?"

"There ain't nothin' to read," repeated Peletiah; "you can see for
yourself." He held it up before her. There were many pencil marks going
this way and that, by which Phronsie felt perfectly sure that her friends
would understand what she was telling them. And once in a while came the
great achievement of a big capital letter laboriously printed. But for
these occasional slips into intelligible language, the letter presented a
medium of communication peculiar to itself.

"Ain't it sweet!" said Grandma admiringly, when she had looked it all over.
"The little precious creeter, to think of her writin' that, and all by
herself too!"

"You can read it as well upside down," observed Peletiah.

"I know it." Grandma beamed at him.

"Just think of that child a-writin' that! Who'd ever b'lieve it?"

"I must go now," announced Peletiah, getting out of his chair and beginning
to stretch slowly.

"Well, now tell your ma I thank her for comin', and for them letters from
them precious childern. An' see here." Grandma leaned over and pulled out
the under drawer of the little stand. It wasn't like giving peppermints to
Joel Pepper, and it sent a pang through her at the remembrance, but
Peletiah had been good to read those letters.

"I'm a-goin' to give you these," she said, beginning to shake therefrom
into her hand three big, white peppermints and two red ones.

"No, I thank you, ma'am," said Peletiah stiffly, and standing quite still.

"Yes, you take 'em," said Grandma decidedly. "You've been real good to read
them letters. Here, Peletiah."

"No, I thank you, ma'am," said Peletiah again, not offering to stir. "Well,
I must be going," and he went slowly out of the kitchen, leaving Grandma
with the big peppermints in her hand.

That evening, after everything was quiet at the parsonage, the minister
called his wife into the study.

"We will look that letter over from Mrs. Fisher, now, my dear."

Mrs. Henderson sat down on the end of the well-worn sofa.

"Lie down, dear," he said, "and let me tuck a pillow under your head. You
are all tired out."

"Oh, husband, I am sure you are quite as tired as I am," and the color flew
into her cheeks like a girl. But he had his way.

"You better leave the door open"--as he went across the room to close
it--"Jerusha may call."

"Jerusha won't need us," he said, and shut it.

"You know the doctor said she was not much hurt, only strained and bruised,
and she's quite comfortable now. Well, my dear, now about this letter. Do
you think we might take this child?"

"We?" repeated his wife, with wide eyes. "Why, husband!"

"I know it seems a somewhat peculiar thing to propose"--and the parson
smiled--"with our two boys and Jerusha."

"Yes," said Mrs. Henderson, "it is, and I never thought seriously of it."

"She won't do Peletiah any harm"--and then he laughed--"and she might
brighten him up, if she's the girl Mrs. Fisher's letter indicates. And as
for Ezekiel, there's no harm to be thought of in that quarter. Our boys
aren't the ones, wife, to be influenced out of their orbits."

"Well, there's Jerusha." Mrs. Henderson brought it out fearfully, and then
shut her mouth as if she wished she hadn't said anything.

"I know, dear. You needn't be afraid to speak it out. It is always on my
mind. Oh, I do wish--" and the parson began to pace the floor with troubled
steps.

His wife threw back the old sofa-blanket with which he had tucked her up,
and bounded to his side, passing her hand within his arm.

"Don't, dear," she begged. "Oh, why did I speak!" she cried remorsefully.

"You said no more than what is always on my mind," said the minister again,
and he pressed the hand on his arm, looking at it fondly. "Poor Almira!" he
said, "I didn't think how hard you would have to work to please her, when I
took her here."

"But you couldn't help it, husband," she cried, looking up at him with a
world of love. "After your mother died, what place was there for her to go?
And she really was good to her."

"Yes," said the minister, and he sighed. "Well, it's done, and she is here;
but oh, Almira, I think it's made a great difference with our boys."

Mrs. Henderson's cheek paled, but it wouldn't do to let him see her
thoughts further on the subject, he was so worn and tired, so she said:

"Well, about the little girl, husband?"

"Yes, Mrs. Fisher's letter must be answered," said the parson, pulling
himself out of his revery. "She asks if we can find a place in Badgertown
for this child, who seems uncommonly clever, and is, so she writes, very
truthful. And I'm sure, Almira, if Mrs. Fisher says so, the last word has
been spoken."

"Yes, indeed," said his wife heartily.

"And they've found out a great deal about her. She's been half starved and
cruelly beaten."

The parson's wife hid her tender eyes on her husband's coat sleeve.

"Oh, dear me!" she exclaimed sympathetically.

"And the old woman who pretended to be her grandmother, and who beat her
because she wouldn't steal, became frightened at the investigation, and has
cleared out, so there is no one to lay a claim to 'Rag.'"

"To whom?" asked Mrs. Henderson, raising her head suddenly.

"Rag--that's the only name the child says she has. But Mrs. Fisher writes
they call her Rachel now. You didn't notice that when you read the letter,
did you, Almira?"

"No," said his wife, "I didn't have time to read more than part of it.
Don't you remember, I hurried over to Grandma Bascom's with the little
Pepper letters, and you said you'd talk it over with me when I got home?
And then Peletiah came after me, and I ran back here to poor Jerusha."

"Oh, I remember. I shouldn't have asked you." He nodded remorsefully.
"Well, then, I'll tell you the rest. You read the first part--how they ran
across the girl, and all that?"

"Yes. Oh, dear me! it gives me a shiver now to think what an awful risk
that blessed child, Phronsie, ran," cried Mrs. Henderson.

"I know it; I cannot bear to think of it even in the light of her safety,"
said Mr. Henderson. "Well, now, Mr. King has taken upon himself to support
and to educate Rag--Rachel, I mean--and the best place, at first, at any
rate, to put her is Badgertown. Now what do you say, Almira, to her coming
here to us?"

The parson's wife hesitated, then said, "Jerusha--" and paused.

"Will she be made unhappy by Jerusha, you mean?" asked the parson.

"Yes."

"No, I don't believe she will," he said decidedly. "You must remember she
has had her old 'Gran' as she calls her, and after that I think she can
bear Jerusha."

"Oh, yes," said Mrs. Henderson, "I forgot. Then I say, husband, we will
take this child. I should really love to put the brightness into her life.
And please let her come soon." A pretty glow rushed up to her cheek, and
the parson's wife actually laughed at the prospect.


VII

THE DISAPPOINTMENT


"Will it stop, Grandpapa?" Phronsie, kneeling on a chair, her face pressed
close to the window pane, turned to old Mr. King, looking over her
shoulder.

"I'm afraid not, dear," he answered.

"Doesn't God know we want to help the poor children?" she asked suddenly, a
surprised look coming into her eyes.

"Yes, yes, dear; of course he knows, child."

"Then why does he let it rain?" cried Phronsie, in a hurt voice.

"Oh, because, Pet, we must have rain, else the flowers wouldn't grow, you
know."

"They're all grown," said Phronsie, trying to peer out into the thick
twilight between the great splashes of rain running down the window over
toward the garden, "and now we can't have our party to-morrow, Grandpapa,"
she added sorrowfully.

"No, it would be quite too wet, after this downpour, even if it cleared
to-night," said the old gentleman decidedly. "Well, Phronsie, child, we
must just accept the matter philosophically."

"What's philo--that big word, Grandpapa?" she asked, turning away from her
effort to catch sight of the flower-beds, off in the distance, gay with the
wealth of blooms saved for the hoped-for festivities of the morrow, and she
put her arm around his neck.

"Oh, that? It was a pretty large word to use to you, and that's a fact,"
said the old gentleman, with a little laugh. He was having rather a hard
time of it to conceal his dismay at the blow to all the plans and
preparations so finely in progress for the garden party. "Well, it means we
must make the best of it all, and not fret."

"Oh!" said Phronsie. Then she turned back to her window again, and surveyed
the driving storm.

"Perhaps the flowers like it," she said, after a pause, when nothing was
heard but the beating of the rain against the glass; "maybe they are
thirsty, Grandpapa."

"Yes, maybe," assented Grandpapa absently.

"And if God wants it to rain, why we must be glad, mustn't we, Grandpapa,
if he really wants it?"

"Yes, yes, child," said the old gentleman hastily.

"Then I'm glad," said Phronsie, with a long sigh, and she clambered down
from her chair, "and let's find Polly and tell her so, Grandpapa."

Over in the library there was a dismal group. Joel was fighting valiantly
with a flood of tears, doubling up his little fists and glaring at Percy
and Van at the least intimation of a remark to him. Little Davie had
succumbed long ago, and now, crammed up in a small heap in the corner back
of the sofa, was rivaling the storm outside, in the flood of tears he
supplied.

Jasper crowded his hands in his pockets, marching up and down the long
room. Polly, who was swallowing hard, as if her throat hurt her, wouldn't
look at one of the boys. Little Dick was openly wailing in his mother's
arms.

"Oh, shut up that, kid, will you?" cried Percy, crossly, over at him.

"Percy, Percy," said his mother gently.

"Well, he needn't boo-hoo like a baby," said Percy; "we've all got to give
up the garden party."

"We can't have any garden party," mumbled little Dick between his sobs, and
crying all over his mother's pretty blue silk waist.

"There, there, dear," Mrs. Whitney said soothingly, "we'll have it the next
day, perhaps, Dicky boy."

"Next day is just forever," whimpered little Dick. "Oh, dear! boo-hoo-hoo!"

Percy started an impatient exclamation, thought better of it, and turned on
his heel abruptly. But Van burst out:

"And the flowers'll all be gone, so what's the use of trying to have it
then?"

"They won't," cried Joel, in an angry scream, and squaring round at him.
"They shan't, so there, Van Whitney!" When the door opened and in walked
Mr. King, and Phronsie clinging to his hand.

"Oh, hush, boys!" cried Polly hoarsely, a wave of shame rising in a rosy
flush up to her brow. Oh, why hadn't she tried to keep cheerful instead of
giving way to the general gloom? And now here were Phronsie and dear
Grandpapa, who had ordered "just oceans of flowers" and everything else.
Oh, dear, how naughty she had been! She sprang away from the big, carved
table, over to take Phronsie's hand.

"The flowers are thirsty, Polly, I guess," said Phronsie, looking up at her
with a smile; "and when they drink all they want to, why, we'll have the
party, won't we, Polly?"

"Yes," said Polly, the flush not dying down.

"Then that'll be nice, I think," said Phronsie, smoothing down her gown in
satisfaction, "and I can finish my cushion-pin now"; for there was one
little corner still untraveled by the remarkable design observed by the
worker. But Mr. Hamilton Dyce had protested he didn't care for any such
trifling deficiency, for he could put more pins in that quarter, so he
should still be its purchaser.

"So you can," cried Polly, with as much enthusiasm as she could muster, and
winking furiously over at the boys.

"And we can write more letters," cried Jasper suddenly, springing over to
Phronsie's side.

"Phoo!" exclaimed Joel, "we've got bushels already."

"Well, it's nice to have more yet," retorted Jasper, "so you better keep
still, old fellow."

"I shall write some more," announced Van, with great pomposity, strutting
up and down the room.

"Hoh-hoh!" laughed Joel, snapping his fingers in derision, "you haven't
finished one yet, and beside, who can read your chicken tracks?"

"I have, too," declared Van, very red in the face, ignoring the reflection
on his writing and plunging over to Jasper. "Haven't I, Jasper, written a
letter for the post office? Say, haven't I?"--gripping him by the
jacket-sleeve.

"Yes, you have," said Jasper. "He handed it in this afternoon," he added,
nodding to the group.

"There, you see." Van rushed triumphantly up in front of Joel. "You see,
Joel Pepper, so you've just got to take that back."

"Well, only one," said Joel, "and there can't any one read it, so that's no
good."

"And I wrote some letters," cried Phronsie, running away from the little
circle to thrust her face in between the two boys. "I did, all by myself.
One, two, ten, I guess."

Little Dick at that stopped sniveling, and slipped off from his mother's
lap. "I did, too, write some, ten, three, 'leven, just as many as you did."
The tears trailed off from his red cheeks as he bobbed his head
emphatically.

So no one heard quick steps along the hall, and the door being thrown wide
by the butler, saying, "They're all in the library." In came Miss Mary
Taylor and Mr. Hamilton Dyce.

"We thought we'd drop in," said the gentleman, with a quick glance at Miss
Mary, as if to say, "You see, they didn't need us after all, to help cheer
up."

"Why, how very jolly you all are!" observed Miss Mary. The rain-drops were
glistening on her hair and cheeks, where she had scampered away from the
protecting umbrella at the foot of the steps. "Oh, I'm not wet, Mrs.
Fisher"--Mother Fisher at this moment coming in with her mending basket.
"I left my mackintosh in the hall."

"Well, well," exclaimed Mr. Hamilton Dyce. Joel had left sparring with Van
and now swarmed around the newcomer, for he was extremely fond of him. "How
are the letters coming on, Jasper? By the way, I've a few belated ones, in
the pockets in my coat out in the hall. I'll get them."

"Let me--let me," screamed Joel.

"All right, go ahead. In both side pockets, Joe." He didn't consider it
necessary to explain that Miss Taylor and he had been busy driving their
pens all the afternoon.

"Whickets!" cried Joel, rushing back, both hands overflowing, "what a lot!"

"Joel, what did you say?" Mother Fisher glanced up, the lines of worry that
had settled over her face at the terrible disappointment that had befallen
the family, disappearing, now that the usual cheeriness was coming back.

"I didn't mean to," said Joel, the color all over his chubby face, "but my,
see what a lot! The post office won't hold 'em all!"

"We'll put them with the others," cried Jasper, "and thank you, oh, so
much, Mr. Dyce; we can't have too many. Come on, all of you, and see our
pile"--running out into the hall, headed for his den.

"You must thank Miss Mary," said Mr. Dyce.

But Miss Mary laughingly protesting the gratitude was not so much due to
her, the whole company filed out after Jasper in great good spirits.

Little Davie, back of the sofa, poked up his head.

"Are they all gone, Mamsie?" he asked fearfully.

"Why, Davie, my boy!" exclaimed Mother Fisher, much startled, and laying
down her needle, stuck in a stocking-heel, "I thought you were upstairs
with Ben."

"I haven't been with Ben." said David, working his way out, to run and lay
his swollen little face in his mother's lap. She cleared away her work, and
took him up, to gather him close in her arms.

"There, there, Davie, mother's boy, it's all right"--smoothing the hair
away from the hot brow--"we can have the garden party another day, and
then perhaps there'll be all the more pleasure and good time."

"Tisn't that," said little Davie, wriggling around to look up at her, "but
Polly--" and for a moment it seemed as if the floods were to descend again.

"Oh, Polly is all right," said Mrs. Fisher cheerfully.

"Is, she, Mamsie?" asked David doubtfully.

"Yes, indeed, and you must see that you keep yourself right. That's all any
of us can do," said Mother Fisher. "Now, Davie, my boy, hop down and run
into Jasper's den with the others."

"Oh, I can't, Mamsie," protested Davie, in horror, and burrowing in her
arms, "they'll see I've been crying."

"That's the trouble with crying," observed Mother Fisher wisely; "it makes
you twice sorry--once when you're doing it, and the next time when it
shows. You can't help it now, Davie, so run along. Mother wants you to."

If Mother wanted them to, that was always enough for each of the "Five
Little Peppers," so Davie slid slowly down from her lap, and went out and
down the hall.

Meantime Miss Mary had taken Polly's arm in the procession to Jasper's den.

"Oh, Polly, how cheery you have made them!" she exclaimed. "We expected to
see you all perhaps drowned in tears."

"Oh, I haven't done it--anything to make them happy," cried Polly, the wave
of color again flooding her cheeks; "indeed I haven't, Miss Mary. I've been
bad and wicked and horrid," she said penitently, her head drooping.

"Oh, no, Polly," protested Miss Mary, her arm around Polly's waist.

"Yes I have, Miss Mary, I----"

"Well, don't let us talk now about it; we will look at the letters." Miss
Mary drew her within the den. There stood Jasper behind the table perfectly
overflowing with epistles of every sort and size, while little packages,
and some not so very little, either, filled up all the receptacles possible
for mail matter.

"Oh, my, what a lot!" exclaimed everybody, as Joel with a dash precipitated
his handfuls on the already long-suffering pile.

"This is only the beginning," laughed Jasper, waving his arms over, to
compass the whole den. "Just look on the top of the bookcase, will you?"

Everybody whirled around.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Grandpapa, at the sight. Letters were scattered
here and there in the thickest of piles all along the surface, while the
Chinese vase had a whole handful poking up their faces as if to say, "Here
we are, all the way from China."

"Dear me," exclaimed old Mr. King again, "when do you ever expect to sell
all those, Jasper?"

"Mine is in there," announced Phronsie, hanging to his hand and pointing to
the vase. "Grandpapa, it really is; Japser put it there."

"Did he, Pet?" cried the old gentleman, immensely interested.

"Yes, he did truly," said Phronsie, bobbing her head emphatically. "I saw
him my own self, Grandpapa. _And it's to you_." She stood on her
tiptoes and whispered the last bit of information.

"No, is it?" cried Grandpapa, highly gratified; and, lifting her up to a
level with his face, he kissed her on both cheeks. "Now, Phronsie, I shall
always keep that letter," he said, as he set her down.

"Shall you?" cried Phronsie, smoothing her gown with great satisfaction.
"Then I'm so glad I wrote it, Grandpapa."

Over by the table Jasper was saying to Polly:

"Now what shall we do with this dreadfully long evening? Do hurry and
think, Polly, before everybody gets dismal again."

"Oh, I don't know," said Polly, at her wit's end.

"But we must think of something," said Jasper desperately, and fumbling the
letters.

Polly's eye fell on his restless fingers.

"We might sort them out, the letters, and tie them up in little packages to
take out to the post office."

"The very thing!" cried Jasper enthusiastically. "Here, all you good
people"--he whirled around--"if you want to help, please sit down, and
we'll get this mess of letters sorted and tied up into bundles." He waved
his hands over his head, and of course everybody stopped talking at once.

"Oh, whickets!" Joel screamed; then he caught Polly's eye, and his chubby
face took on a lively red. "Let me--let me!" He crammed himself in between
Jasper and the table.

"Hold on!" commanded Jasper, "not so fast, Joe," and he seized Joel's brown
hands just grabbing a big pile.

"Wait till Jasper tells us how to begin," said Polly, her brown eyes
dancing at the prospect of something to do.

"Oh, dear!" whimpered Joel, stamping in his impatience. The Whitney boys
were crowding up close behind. "Do hurry up, Jasper," they teased.

"Well, how shall we begin, Polly?" Jasper wrinkled up his brows in
perplexity.

"Let's ask Miss Mary," said Polly. So Jasper called, "Miss Mary!" but she
didn't seem to hear, which perhaps wasn't so very strange, after all, as
Mr. Dyce was telling her something which must have been very interesting,
over in the corner. When at last the summons reached her, she came hurrying
over with very pink cheeks. "Oh, what can I do to help?"

"We've been calling and calling for ever so long," said Joel, in a very
injured tone, for he had added his voice when he saw that things were
waiting for Miss Taylor.

"Oh, have you, Joel? That's too bad." Miss Mary's cheeks became pinker than
ever.

"Well, you are always screaming over something, Joe, you beggar"--Mr. Dyce
pulled his ear--"so it's no wonder that your cries are not attended to on
the instant."

When Miss Mary saw what was wanted of her, she proposed that Jasper give
out twelve letters to each person, who should tie them up neatly, and put
in a big basket. Then they would be ready to take out to the post office in
the Wistaria arbor, and to be sorted into the little boxes which Grandpapa
had commissioned the carpenter to make all up and down the sides, leaving
one end free for the delivery window. The door for the postmaster and his
assistants was to be at the opposite corner.

"Oh, yes, how nice!" exclaimed Polly, hopping up and down as ecstatically
as Phronsie ever did. "Jasper, I'll get a ball of twine," and she was
flying off.

"No, you stay here and help me give out the letters," said Jasper.

"Oh, I want to do that," cried Joel, squeezing and crowding.

"No, you must get the big basket," said Jasper. "Go and ask Thomas to give
you one."

"I don't want to get an old basket," whined Joel; "let Percy get it."

"Hoh! I'm not going to," declared Percy, drawing himself up in great state.

"Then I will go myself," said Jasper, flinging down a handful of letters,
to hurry off.

"Joel," said Polly, in a sorry little voice, and turning away from the
table, "now you will spoil everything, and we've just got to feeling good.
How can you, Joey!"

"I didn't mean--" began Joel, turning his back on her, while he winked very
hard, "I didn't mean to, Polly."

Percy dug the toe of his shoe into the rug, and looked down on the floor.

"Then run after Jasper," cried Polly; "hurry, and tell him so."

"I will," cried Joel, plunging off, and Percy, being left alone, as Van had
slid away to another group when he saw how things were going on, concluded
to follow. And presently Jasper came back.

"It's all right, Polly," he nodded brightly to her, and they fell to work.

And in a minute or two, Joel came back with Percy, carrying the basket, a
big market affair, between them. And when he saw what fun they were having
over it, for they were both laughing merrily, Van wished he had gone.

And seeing his dismal face, Jasper sent him after a ball of twine. And then
Phronsie wanted to get something, and little Dick teased to go too, so
Grandpapa suggested they should go after some extra pairs of scissors.

"And Mamsie will let us take hers out of her workbasket, I guess," cried
Phronsie. "Let us ask her, Grandpapa dear."

"Oh, you better stop working, Mrs. Fisher." Old Mr. King popped his white
head in at the library door. There sat Mother Fisher by the table, mending
away as usual, for the stockings never seemed to be quite done. "And come
into Jasper's den and see how fine we all are!" he added gayly.

"Yes, Mamsie, do come," chirped Phronsie, running her head in between him
and the door-casing to plead.

"Yes, Mamsie, do come," echoed little Dick, who would do and say everything
that Phronsie did.

"You see, you've simply got to come," laughed Grandpapa.

"And may we have your scissors, Mamsie?" Phronsie now deserted old Mr.
King, to run over to the big workbasket.

"My scissors?" repeated Mother Fisher. "Why, Phronsie, child, what are you
going to do with them?"

"We're going to cut letters," said Phronsie, with an important air, her
fingers already in the basket, which, standing on tiptoe, she had pulled
quickly over toward her in her eagerness. "And may we have your scissors,
Mamsie?"

"Take care," warned Mother Fisher, but too late. Over went the big basket,
and away rattled all the things, having a perfectly beautiful time by
themselves over the library floor,

"Bless me!" ejaculated old Mr. King, while little Dick laughed right out.

Phronsie stood quite still, the color all out of her round cheeks. Then her
bosom heaved, and she darted over to lay her head in Mother Fisher's lap.

"Oh, I didn't mean to, Mamsie," she wailed.

"Oh, deary me! bless me!" exclaimed Grandpapa, in the greatest
consternation, and leaning over the two.

"There, there, don't mind it, deary." Mother Fisher was smoothing the
yellow hair.

"Take me, Mamsie," begged Phronsie, holding up both hands, and she burrowed
her face deeper yet in Mrs. Fisher's lap.

"Oh, dear me!" old Mr. King kept exclaiming. Then he pulled out his
handkerchief and mopped his face violently. This not making him feel any
better, he kept exclaiming, "Oh, dear me!" at intervals.

"I'll pick 'em up," said little Dick cheerfully, beginning to race after
the spools and things over the floor.

Mother Fisher had drawn Phronsie up to her bosom, where she cuddled her to
her heart's content. "Now, child," she said, after a minute, "I think you
ought to help to pick up the things and put them in the basket. See how
nicely Dicky is doing it."

"I'm getting all the spools," announced Dick, jamming all the chairs aside
that he could move, and lifting a very hot face. "Yes, sir-ee! Come,
Phronsie."

"I think you ought to help him, Phronsie."

So Phronsie slipped out of her mother's lap obediently, and wiped off her
tears.

"Come on," said little Dick, in great glee. "I'm going under the table;
there's a lot under there."

And in shorter time than it takes to tell it, the spools, and mending
cotton, and tape measure, and, dear me! the ever-so-many things of which
Mrs. Fisher's big workbasket was always full, were all collected from the
nice time they were having on the floor, and snugly set up in their places
again. And Mother Fisher, escorted by the children and old Mr. King, who by
this time was laughing quite gayly once more, was going out into the hall,
on the way to Jasper's den. And Phronsie had the big cutting-out shears,
and little Dick the smaller, little snipping-thread scissors.

"Hullo!" Mr. King called out, as the butler ushered into the hall two
gentlemen, in dripping mackintoshes. "Now that's fine, Cabot and Alstyne,
to drop in of this dismal evening."

"We've called to condole with you all," said both gentlemen, as they were
divested of their wet garments, "but it doesn't seem as if our services
were needed"--with a glance at Grandpapa and his group.

"Oh, my family gets over any little disappointment such as bad weather,"
observed the old gentleman, with pride. "Well, come this way, the principal
object of interest is in Jasper's den; no need to announce it"--as the
peals of laughter and chatter sounded down the long hall.


VIII

THE GARDEN PARTY


And so, after all, it turned out to be the very best thing that the garden
party did not take place until two days after, for all was then as sweet
and fresh as a rose--all but one thing. And that was, on the very morning
of the eventful day, Mrs. Chatterton drove up.

But then, as Jasper observed to Polly when this dire news was announced,
"Cousin Eunice was always turning up when least wanted." And Polly had, as
usual, to keep back her own thoughts on the subject, to comfort him. It
would never do to add to his dismay.

"Why she can't stay in Europe when she's everlastingly saying that there is
no place in America to compare with it, I don't, for my part, see," he
cried, in a pet.

"I suppose she wants to be with her relations, Jasper," said Polly, with a
sigh.

"Relations?"--Jasper turned suddenly on his heel and thrust his hands
deeply in his pockets--"well, she fights with every single one of them,"
he said savagely.

"Oh, Jasper--fights!" exclaimed Polly, in horror, whose great grief had
always been at having no relations, so to speak. "Dear me, how very
dreadful!"

"Well, you know she does," said Jasper gloomily, and squaring
round--"always picking and carping at something or somebody; and now Father
will be all upset by her. If she had only waited till to-morrow!"

Polly felt such a dreadful sinking of her heart just then, that for a
minute she didn't speak. There didn't seem to be any comfort for this.

"And just think how good Father has been," went on Jasper, too miserable to
keep still, "and all those flowers he had ordered, for of course he
couldn't let the florists suffer, and that he sent to the hospitals when it
poured so."

"I know it," said Polly, swallowing hard.

"And now he has ordered another lot, and everything else--why, you know,
Polly, there isn't anything Father hasn't done to make this fair a success,
and now she has come!" Jasper flung himself into a chair and buried his
face in his hands.

"Oh, Jasper," cried Polly, running over to him in the greatest distress,
"don't! Oh, dear me! What can we do?"

"Nothing," said Jasper, in the depths of gloom; "nothing will do any good
so long as she has come."

"Oh, there must something be done," declared Polly quite wildly, and
feeling equal to anything. If she only knew what would avail! "_Hush,
here comes Grandpapa!_"

"Oh, he mustn't see us feeling badly." Jasper sprang from his chair. "Come,
Polly," and they flew out into the side hall.

"Now where are those two, Polly and Jasper?" said old Mr. King to himself,
coming to the library in a great state of irritation. "I've searched this
house for them, and nobody seems to have the least idea where they have
gone. Polly! Jasper!" he cried loudly, and it wasn't a very pleasant voice,
either.

"Oh, dear!" Jasper seized Polly's hands in a corner of the hall. "He's
calling us, and we've got to go, Polly, and how we look, you and I!
Whatever shall we do!"

"But we must go," breathed Polly. Then she looked up into Jasper's face.
"Let's ask him to go out and help us fix the flowers," she cried suddenly.

Jasper gave her a keen glance. "All right," he said. "Come on," and before
their resolution had time to cool itself, they rushed into the library.

"Oh, Grandpapa," they both cried together, "do come out and tell us how to
fix the flowers."

"Hey?" The old gentleman whirled around from the table, where he had begun
to throw the papers about. "Did you know Mrs. Chatterton had come back?" He
glared at them over his spectacles, which he had forgotten to remove when
he had been interrupted with the unwelcome news while peacefully reading
the morning paper.

"Yes--oh, yes," said Jasper.

"Oh, yes, we know it," cried Polly cheerfully, "but, Grandpapa, we want
you"--tugging at his hand.

"Hey? you knew it?" The old gentleman's tone softened, and he suffered
himself to be led toward the door. "And you want me, eh?"--feeling with
every step as if life, after all, might be worth living.

"Yes, we do indeed, Father," cried Jasper affectionately, possessing
himself of the other hand.

"And oh, the flowers you sent are just too lovely for anything!" cried
Polly, dancing away along by his side. "They're gorgeous, Grandpapa dear."

"Are they so?" Grandpapa beamed at her, all his happiness returned. "So you
want me to tell you how to arrange them, eh?" And his satisfaction in being
appealed to was so intense that he held his head high. "Well, come on," and
he laughed gayly.

Mrs. Chatterton, newly arrived in the handsome suite of apartments Cousin
Horatio's hospitality always allowed her, looked out of the window, and,
having no one else to confide her opinions to, was not averse to chatting
with her French maid.

"Isn't it perfectly absurd, Hortense, to see that old man?--and to think
how particular and aristocratic he used to be! Why, I can remember when he
would hardly let Jasper speak to him in some of his moods, and now just see
that beggar girl actually holding his hand, and he laughing with her."

"A beggaire, is it?" cried Hortense, dropping the gown she was brushing, to
run to the window. "I see no beggaire, madame"--craning her neck.

"You needn't drop your work," said Mrs. Chatterton, with asperity, "just
because I made a simple remark. You know quite well whom I mean, Hortense.
It's that Polly Pepper I'm speaking of."

"She is not a beggaire, madame," declared Hortense pertly, opening her
black eyes very wide. "Oh!" She extended her hands and burst into a series
of shrill cackles. "Why, she's like all de oder children in dis house, and
I think truly, madame, de best."

"Go back to your work, I say," commanded Mrs. Chatterton, in a fury,
forgetting herself enough to stamp her foot. So Hortense picked up the
gown, but she continued to cackle softly to herself, with now and then a
furtive glance at her mistress.

Outside, with all the sunny influence of the summer morning upon him, old
Mr. King, and Polly, and Jasper went about, superintending the placing of
the flowers. For there seemed to be a great many in the pots, with ferns
and palms, to distribute where they would best show off and be persuaded to
swell the poor children's fund,

"Oh, Grandpapa dear! what richness!" sighed Polly, clasping her hands in
ecstasy. "I do think I never saw so many, and such beauties. Only look,
Jasper, at that azalea!"

"I know it," said Jasper, his eyes sparkling, "and those orchids, Polly!"

"Oh, I know--I know," said Polly, spinning about to take it all in. Old Mr.
King put back his head and laughed to see her.

"I'm so glad you like it, Polly, my girl," he said, heartily pleased.

"Like it, Grandpapa!" repeated Polly, standing quite still. Mr. Howitt
mentions a case in which a group of kindred, ceasing to use their
old totemistic surname, called themselves the children of a famous
dead Birraark, who thus became an eponymous hero, like Ion among
the Ionians.[7] Among the Scotch Highlanders the position and
practice of the seer were very like those of the Birraark.

"A person," says Scott,[8] "was wrapped up in the skin of a newly slain
bullock and deposited beside a waterfall or at the bottom of a
precipice, or in some other strange, wild and unusual situation,
where the scenery around him suggested nothing but objects of horror.

In this situation he revolved in his mind the question proposed and whatever
was impressed on him by his exalted imagination PASSED FOR THE INSPIRATION
OF THE DISEMBODIED SPIRITS who haunt these desolate recesses." A number
of examples are given in Martin's Description of the Western
Islands.[9] In the Century magazine (July, 1882) is a very full
report of Thlinkeet medicine-men and metamorphoses

.

[1] Kamilaroi and Kurnai, p. 253.

[2] Page 254.

[3] In the Jesuit Relations (1637), p. 51, we read that the Red
Indian sorcerer or Jossakeed was credited with power to vanish
suddenly away out of sight of the men standing around him.

Of him, as of Homeric gods, it might be said, "Who has power to see him
come or go against his will?"
[4] Here, in the first edition, occurred the following passage:
"The conception of Brewin is about as near as the Kurnai get to the
idea of a God; their conferring of his name on a powerful sorcerer
is therefore a point of importance and interest".

Mr. Howitt's later knowledge demonstrates an error here.

[5] Bosman in Pinkerton, xvi. p. 401.

[6] Aborigines of Australia, i. 197.

[7] In Victoria, after dark the wizard goes up to the clouds and
brings down a good spirit. Dawkins, p. 57. For eponymous medicine-men
see Kamilaroi and Kurnai, p. 231.

[8] Lady of the Lake, note 1 to Canto iv.

[9] P. 112.

The sorcerer among the Zulus is, apparently, of a naturally hysterical and
nervous constitution. "He hears the spirits who speak by whistlings
speaking to him."[1] Whistling is also the language of the ghosts in New
Caledonia, where Mr. Atkinson informs us that he has occasionally put an
able-bodied Kaneka to ignominious flight by whistling softly in the dusk.
The ghosts in Homer make a similar sound, "and even as bats flit gibbering
in the secret place of a wondrous cavern, . . . even so the souls gibbered
as they fared together" (Odyssey, xxiv. 5).

"The familiar spirits make him" (that Zulu sorcerer) "acquainted with what
is about to happen, and then he divines for the people." As the Birraarks
learn songs and dance-music from the Mrarts, so the Zulu Inyanga or diviners
learn magical couplets from the Itongo or spirits.[2]
[1] Callaway, Religious System of the Amazules, p. 265

.

[2] On all this, see "Possession" in The Making of Religion.

The evidence of institutions confirms the reports about savage belief
in magic. The political power of the diviners is very great, as may be
observed from the fact that a hereditary chief needs their
consecration to make him a chief de jure.[1] In fact, the qualities of the
diviner are those which give his sacred authority to the chief. When he has
obtained from the diviners all their medicines and information as to
the mode of using the isitundu (a magical vessel), it is said that
he often orders them to be killed.

Now, the chief is so far a medicine-man that he is lord of the air. "The
heaven is the chief's," say the Zulus; and when he calls out his men,
"though the heaven is clear, it becomes clouded by the great
wind that arises". Other Zulus explain this as the mere hyperbole of adulation.
"The word of the chief gives confidence to his troops; they say, 'We are
going; the chief has already seen all that will happen in his vessel'. Such
then are chiefs; they use a vessel for divination.

"[2] The makers of rain are known in Zululand as "heaven-herds" or "sky-herds,"
who herd the heaven that it may not break out and do its will on the
property of the people. These men are, in fact, [Greek text omitted],
"cloud-gatherers," like the Homeric Zeus, the lord of the heavens. Their
name of "herds of the heavens" has a Vedic sound.

"The herd that herds the lightning," say the Zulus, "does the same as the
herder of the cattle; he does as he does by whistling; he says, 'Tshu-i-i-i.
Depart and go yonder. Do not come here.'" Here let it be observed that
the Zulus conceive of the thunder- clouds and lightning as actual
creatures, capable of being herded like sheep.

There is no metaphor or allegory about the matter,[3] and no forgetfulness
of the original meaning of words. The cloud- herd is just like the
cowherd, except that not every man, but only sorcerers, and they who have
eaten the "lightning-bird" (a bird shot near the place where lightning has
struck the earth), can herd the clouds of heaven. The same ideas
prevail among the Bushmen, where the rainmaker is asked "to milk
a nice gentle female rain"; the rain-clouds are her hair.

Among the Bushmen Rain is a person.
Among the Red Indians no metaphor seems to be intended when it
is said that "it is always birds who make the wind, except that
of the east".

The Dacotahs once killed a thunder-bird[4] behind Little Crow's village on
the Missouri. It had a face like a man with a nose like an eagle's
bill.[5] 

[1] Callaway, p. 340

.

[2] Callaway, Religions System of the Amazules, p. 343.

[3] Ibid., p. 385.

[4] Schoolcraft, iii. 486.

[5] Compare Callaway, p. 119.

The political and social powers which come into the hands of the sorcerers
are manifest, even in the case of the Australians.

Tribes and individuals can attempt few enterprises without the aid of
the man who listens to the ghosts. Only he can foretell the future,
and, in the case of the natural death of a member of the tribe,
can direct the vengeance of the survivors against the hostile
magician who has committed a murder by "bar" or magic.

Among the Zulus we have seen that sorcery gives the sanction to the power
of the chief. "The winds and weather are at the command" of Bosman's "great
fetisher".

Inland from the Gold Coast,[1] the king of Loango, according to the Abbe
Proyart, "has credit to make rain fall on earth".

Similar beliefs, with like political results, will be found to follow from
the superstition of magic among the Red Indians of North America.

The difficulty of writing about sorcerers among the Red Indians is
caused by the abundance of the evidence.

Charlevoix and the other early Jesuit missionaries found that the jongleurs,
as Charlevoix calls the Jossakeeds or medicine-men, were their
chief opponents.

As among the Scotch Highlanders, the Australians and the Zulus, the Red
Indian jongleur is visited by the spirits. He covers a hut with the skin of
the animal which he commonly wears, retires thither, and there converses
with the bodiless beings.[2] The good missionary like Mr. Moffat in Africa,
was convinced that the exercises of the Jossakeeds were verily supernatural.
"Ces seducteurs ont un veritable commerce avec le pere du mensonge

."[3] This was denied by earlier and wiser Jesuit missionaries. Their political
power was naturally great. In time of war "ils avancent et retardent
les marches comme il leur plait".
In our own century it was a medicine-man, Ten Squa Ta Way, who by his
magical processes and superstitious rites stirred up a formidable
war against the United States.[4] According to Mr.

Pond,[5] the native name of the Dacotah medicine-men, "Wakan,"
signifies "men supernaturally gifted".

Medicine-men are believed to be "wakanised" by mystic intercourse with
supernatural beings.
The business of the wakanised man is to discern future events, to lead and
direct parties on the war-trail, "to raise the storm or calm the
tempest, to converse with the lightning or thunder as with familiar
friends".[6] The wakanised man, like the Australian Birraark and
the Zulu diviner, "dictates chants and prayers".

In battle "every Dacotah warrior looks to the Wakan man as almost his only
resource". Belief in Wakan men is, Mr. Pond says, universal among the Dacotahs,
except where Christianity has undermined it.

"Their influence is deeply felt by every individual of the tribe, and controls
all their affairs."

The Wakan man's functions are absorbed by the general or war-chief
of the tribe, and in Schoolcraft (iv. 495), Captain Eastman prints
copies of native scrolls showing the war-chief at work as a wizard.

"The war-chief who leads the party to war is always one of these medicine-men."
In another passage the medicine-men are described as "having a
voice in the sale of land".

It must be observed that the Jossakeed, or medicine-man, pure and simple,
exercises a power which is not in itself hereditary.

Chieftainship, when associated with inheritance of property, is hereditary;
and when the chief, as among the Zulus, absorbs supernatural power,
then the same man becomes diviner and chief, and is a person of
great and sacred influence.

The liveliest account of the performances of the Maori "tohunga" or sorcerer
is to be found in Old New Zealand,[7] by the Pakeha Maori, an
English gentleman who had lived with the natives like one of
themselves.

The tohunga, says this author,[8] presided over "all those services and
customs which had something approaching to a religious character.

They also pretended to power by means of certain familiar spirits, to
foretell future events, and even in some cases to control them. .
. .

The spirit 'entered into' them, and, on being questioned, gave a response
in a sort of half whistling, half-articulate voice, supposed to be the
proper language of spirits." In New South Wales, Mrs.

Langlot Parker has witnessed a similar exhibition. The "spirits" told the
truth in this case. The Pakeha Maori was present in a darkened village-hall
when the spirit of a young man, a great friend of his own, was
called up by a tohunga.

"Suddenly, without the slightest warning, a voice came out of the darkness.
. . . The voice all through, it is to be remembered, was not the voice
of the tohunga, but a strange melancholy sound, like the sound of
a wind blowing into a hollow vessel.

'It is well with me; my place is a good place.' The spirit gave an answer
to a question which proved to be correct, and then 'Farewell,' cried the
spirit FROM DEEP BENEATH THE GROUND.

'Farewell,' again, FROM HIGH IN AIR. 'Farewell,' once more came moaning through
the distant darkness of the night." As chiefs in New Zealand no less than
tohungas can exercise the mystical and magical power of tabu, that is,
of imparting to any object or person an inviolable character, and can prevent
or remit the mysterious punishment for infringement of tabu, it appears
probable that in New Zealand, as well as among the Zulus and Red Indians,
chiefs have a tendency to absorb the sacred character and powers of
the tohungas. This is natural enough, for a tohunga, if he plays his cards
well, is sure to acquire property and hereditary wealth, which, in combination
with magical influence, are the necessary qualifications for the office of
the chieftain.

[1] Pinkerton, xvi. 401.

[2] Charlevoix, i. 105.

See "Savage Spiritualism" in Cock Lane and Common Sense.

[3] Ibid., iii. 362.

[4] Catlin, ii. 17.

[5] In Schoolcraft, iv. 402.

[6] Pond, in Schoolcraft, iv. 647.

[7] Auckland, 1863

.

[8] Page 148.

Here is the place to mention a fact which, though at first sight it may
appear to have only a social interest, yet bears on the development of
mythology.

Property and rank seem to have been essential to each other in the making
of social rank, and where one is absent among contemporary savages,
there we do not find the other.

As an example of this, we might take the case of two peoples who, like the
Homeric Ethiopians, are the outermost of men, and dwell far apart
at the ends of the world.

The Eskimos and the Fuegians, at the extreme north and south of the American
continent, agree in having little or no private property and no chiefs. Yet
magic is providing a kind of basis of rank.

The bleak plains of ice and rock are, like Attica, "the mother of men without
master or lord". Among the "house-mates" of the smaller settlements
there is no head-man, and in the larger gatherings Dr.

Rink says that "still less than among the house-mates was any one belonging
to such a place to be considered a chief". The songs and stories of
the Eskimo contain the praises of men who have risen up and killed
any usurper who tried to be a ruler over his "place-mates".

No one could possibly establish any authority on the basis of property,
because "superfluous property, implements, etc., rarely existed".
If there are three boats in one household, one of the boats is "borrowed"
by the community, and reverts to the general fund.
If we look at the account of the Fuegians described in Admiral Fitzroy's
cruise, we find a similar absence of rank produced by similar
causes.

"The perfect equality among the individuals composing the tribes must for
a long time retard their civilisation. . . . At present even a piece of
cloth is torn in shreds and distributed, and no one individual
becomes richer than another.

On the other hand, it is difficult to understand how a chief can
arise till there is property of some sort by which he might manifest
and still increase his authority."

In the same book, however, we get a glimpse of one means by which authority
can be exercised. "The doctor-wizard of each party has much influence
over his companions." Among the Eskimos this element in the growth of
authority also exists. A class of wizards called Angakut have power to cause
fine weather, and, by the gift of second-sight and magical practices,
can detect crimes, so that they necessarily become a kind of civil
magistrates.

These Angekkok or Angakut have familiar spirits called Torngak, a
word connected with the name of their chief spiritual being,
Torngarsak.

The Torngak is commonly the ghost of a deceased parent of the
sorcerer.

"These men," says Egede, "are held in great honour and esteem among this
stupid and ignorant nation, insomuch that nobody dare ever refuse
the strictest obedience when they command him in the name of
Torngarsak."

The importance and actual existence of belief in magic has thus been attested
by the evidence of institutions, even among Australians, Fuegians and
Eskimos.

It is now necessary to pass from examples of tribes who have superstitious
respect for certain individuals, but who have no property and no chiefs, to
peoples who exhibit the phenomenon of superstitious reverence
attached to wealthy rulers or to judges.

To take the example of Ireland, as described in the Senchus Mor,
we learn that the chiefs, just like the Angakut of the Eskimos, had
"power to make fair or foul weather" in the literal sense of the
words.[1] In Africa, in the same way, as Bosman, the old traveller,
says, "As to what difference there is between one negro and another,
the richest man is the most honoured," yet the most honoured man
has the same magical power as the poor Angakuts of the Eskimos

.

[1] Early History of Institutions, p. 195.

"In the Solomon Islands," says Dr.

Codrington, "there is nothing to prevent a common man from becoming a
chief, if he can show that he has the mana (supernatural power) for it."[1]

[1] Journ. Anth. Inst., x. iii. 287, 300, 309.

Though it is anticipating a later stage of this inquiry, we must here
observe that the sacredness, and even the magical virtues of barbarous
chiefs seem to have descended to the early leaders of European
races.

The children of Odin and of Zeus were "sacred kings". The Homeric chiefs,
like those of the Zulus and the Red Men, and of the early Irish
and Swedes, exercised an influence over the physical universe.

Homer[1] speaks of "a blameless king, one that fears the gods, and reigns
among many men and mighty, and the black earth bears wheat and barley, and
the sheep bring forth and fail not, and the sea gives store of
fish, and all out of his good sovereignty"

.

[1] Od., xix. 109.

The attributes usually assigned by barbarous peoples to their medicine-men
have not yet been exhausted. We have found that they can foresee and
declare the future; that they control the weather and the sensible world;
that they can converse with, visit and employ about their own
business the souls of the dead.

It would be easy to show at even greater length that the medicine-man has
everywhere the power of metamorphosis. He can assume the shapes of all beasts,
birds, fishes, insects and inorganic matters, and he can subdue
other people to the same enchantment.

This belief obviously rests on the lack of recognised distinction between
man and the rest of the world, which we have so frequently insisted on as a
characteristic of savage and barbarous thought. Examples of accredited
metamorphosis are so common everywhere, and so well known, that it would
be waste of space to give a long account of them. In Primitive
Culture[1] a cloud of witnesses to the belief in human tigers,
hyaenas, leopards and wolves is collected.[2] Mr.

Lane[3] found metamorphosis by wizards as accredited a working belief at Cairo
as it is among Abipones, Eskimo, or the people of Ashangoland.

In various parts of Scotland there is a tale of a witch who was
shot at when in the guise of a hare.

In this shape she was wounded, and the same wound was found on her when she
resumed her human appearance.

Lafitau, early in the last century, found precisely the same tale, except
that the wizards took the form of birds, not of hares, among the
Red Indians.

The birds were wounded by the magical arrows of an old medicine-man,
Shonnoh Koui Eretsi, and these bolts were found in the bodies of
the human culprits.

In Japan, as we learn from several stories in Mr.
Mitford's Tales of Old Japan, people chiefly metamorphose themselves into
foxes and badgers.

The sorcerers of Honduras[4] "possess the power of transforming men into
wild beasts, and were much feared accordingly". Among the Cakchiquels, a
cultivated people of Guatemala, the very name of the clergy, haleb,
was derived from their power of assuming animal shapes, which they
took on as easily as the Homeric gods.[5] Regnard, the French
dramatist, who travelled among the Lapps at the end of the seventeenth
century (1681), says: "They believe witches can turn men into cats;"
and again, "Under the figures of swans, crows, falcons and geese,
they call up tempests and destroy ships".[6] Among the Bushmen
"sorcerers assume the forms of beasts and jackals".[7] Dobrizhoffer
(1717-91), a missionary in Paraguay, found that "sorcerers arrogate
to themselves the power of transforming themselves into tigers".[8]
He was present when the Abipones believed that a conversion of this
sort was actually taking place: "Alas," cried the people, "his whole
body is beginning to be covered with tiger-spots; his nails are
growing".

Near Loanda, Livingstone found that a "chief may metamorphose himself into
a lion, kill any one he choses, and then resume his proper form".[9]
Among the Barotse and Balonda, "while persons are still alive they
may enter into lions and alligators".[10] Among the Mayas of Central
America "sorcerers could transform themselves into dogs, pigs and
other animals; their glance was death to a victim".[11] The Thlinkeets
think that their Shamans can metamorphose themselves into animals
at pleasure; and a very old raven was pointed out to Mr.

C. E. S.

Wood as an incarnation of the soul of a Shaman.[12] Sir A. C. Lyall finds
a similar belief in flourishing existence in India.

exclaimed Miss Tresor impulsively.

"Come away, Emily," begged another young lady, seizing Miss Tresor's arm,
"the old cat is quite furious; just look at her face."

"We'll leave her to mamma's tender mercies," said Emily carelessly, "she
knows how to handle her. Do you remember that scene, Elinor, at Geneva?"

"Don't I!" laughed Elinor, as they sauntered off.

Well, by the time that six o'clock came, there wasn't so much as a scrap of
a letter left in Jasper's post office, but, instead, a box crammed full of
silver pieces and banknotes. And Miss Mary Taylor and Mr. Hamilton Dyce,
and some other young ladies and gentlemen whom they drilled into the
service, shut themselves up in the library and wrote as fast as ever they
could make their pens fly over the paper, till little white piles appeared
on the table. And Percy and Joel and Van and the other boys would rush in
for these same piles to put them in the post office, to earn more money, to
go into the big box. So back and forth ran these letter carriers, until
even Miss Mary threw down her pen.

"I can't write another word," she cried. "I've exhausted everything I can
think of. I don't want to see another letter!"

And then a card was put up outside the Wistaria arbor, "Post Office
Closed." And everybody who still had money, was anxious to spend it before
going home; so it was just lavished on the flower-bowers, the fancy-work
table, and the candy shop.

And then, when there wasn't anything more to be bought or sold, the bands
moved down nearer to the center of the big lawn, making the gay little
groups all move back, leaving a broad, smooth surface, for the affair was
to end in dancing on the green.

Meanwhile Grandpapa was gallantly offering his arm to Madam Dyce, and
leading her up to an esplanade on the upper terrace, and, word being spread
about that all the guests were expected to follow, there they found seats
and little tables and a bevy of waiters to serve a delicious supper. And
here the dancing on the green below by the young people could be seen in
all its gayety, the setting sun casting bright gleams upon the merry scene.

"Dear me! shouldn't you think those young people would be tired enough
after all they have worked," observed the old gentleman, leaning back in
his comfortable chair, "to sit still and take it easy with us here?"

"No, indeed!" exclaimed Madam Dyce, "my old feet are actually twitching
under my gown to dance too."

"In that case," observed old Mr. King most gallantly, "let me lead you
down, and will you give me the honor?" He bent his white hair to the level
of her hand.

"No, indeed," laughed Madam Dyce; "I will leave the field for the young
people. But it carries me back to my youth, when you and I did dance many a
time together, Horatio."

"Did we not?" laughed Grandpapa, too. And then up came some merry groups,
tired of dancing, after some supper, when down they would go again,
fortified and refreshed, to begin it all over once more. At last, even the
lingering ones were obliged to say good-bye. The evening had shut in and
the brilliant garden party was a thing of the past. The King household was
resting and talking it all over on the spacious veranda, luxurious in its
cushions and rugs, its easy-chairs and hammocks.

"Oh, it has been so perfectly beatific!" exclaimed Polly, in a rapture. She
was curled up on the top step, her head in Grandpapa's lap, who was
ensconced in a big chair with Phronsie's tired little face snuggled up on
his breast. "Hasn't it, Alexia?" For Alexia was going to stay over night.

"Oh, my!" Alexia gave a sigh and squeezed Polly's hand. "I never had such a
good time in all my life, Polly Pepper," she declared. "The poor children
won't begin to get the fun out of it that we've had."

"Oh, those dear poor children!" exclaimed Polly, stretching out her toes,
which now began to ache dreadfully; "just think how perfectly lovely it's
going to be for them all summer, Alexia."

Joel caught the last words. He poked up his head from one of the hammocks.

"Well, I guess Mr. Cabot has helped a poor child to go into the country,"
he cried, in a pleased tone.

"I guess everybody has helped," observed Ben, "the way your letters went,
Jasper! Who would think so many could have been sold!"

Jasper stopped pulling Prince's ears.

"Didn't they go!" he cried, in huge satisfaction.

"I guess you were glad to get that big bill, Jasper," shouted Joel. "My,
wasn't he good to send it!"

"Eh?" asked Jasper. Everybody was chatting and laughing, so it wasn't
strange that things couldn't be heard the first time. So Joel shouted it
again, glad to be allowed to scream such a splendid contribution over and
over. "The big bill, wasn't it prime, Jasper!"

"What are you talking about, Joe?" cried Jasper, stopping his play with
Prince, as he saw Joel was terribly in earnest over something.

"Why, the big bill I gave you, that Mr. Cabot sent. Hurrah! Wasn't it
fine!" Joel kicked up his heels and emitted a whistle that made Polly clap
her hands over her ears.

"What big bill?" exclaimed Jasper. "What on earth are you talking about,
Joe?"

Joel tumbled out of the hammock and took long leaps across the piazza
floor, which landed him in front of Jasper.

"Why, that ten-dollar bill I gave you that Mr. Cabot sent to the post
office," he said, in a breath.

"You didn't give me any ten-dollar bill," said Jasper, all in a puzzle;
"you've been dreaming, Joe."

"I--I laid it down right by you." Joe could only gasp the words now.

"I didn't see it," said Jasper.


X

TROUBLE FOR JOEL


There was an awful pause, for everybody caught the last words. Joel slid to
the floor in a little heap. Mrs. Chatterton spoke up quickly.

"It's easy enough to see where it went," and she gave a little laugh.

"Come on, Joe." Jasper sprang up and shook Joel's arm. "We'll go and hunt
for it."

"I'll go, too." Van and Percy screamed it together. Now that any trouble
had come to Joel, each vied with the other to see which could work the
faster to help matters.

"I laid it--right down. Oh, dear me!" Joel was pretty far gone in distress
by this time, and blubbered miserably, as they all raced across the
greensward, Polly and Alexia following swiftly. "Hold on there, James,"
ordered Jasper, to one of the three men busy dismantling the post office of
its improvised trimmings of pine branches.

"Eh--eh, sor? Stop, boys," said James to the workmen within the arbor.

"We have lost something," panted Jasper, as the whole group precipitated
themselves up to the spot.

"Is that so, sor?" said James, in great concern. "Well, if I'd 'a' known
it, I'd 'a' kept a sharp eye out for it, sor." Polly and Alexia were
already in the arbor in the thickest of the green branches scattered over
the floor, and the boys were picking and pulling wildly, everywhere a
banknote could be supposed to hide. "What was it, sor?"

"A banknote," said Jasper, down on his knees, prowling over the floor with
both hands, while Joel, who could scarcely see for the tears that streamed
down his chubby cheeks, searched desperately on all sides.

"Is that so, sor?" said James, in great distress. "Well now, that's too
bad. We've taken off two loads already, sor."

"Where have you put them?" demanded Jasper, springing to his feet.

"Down in the dump, sor."

"We must look that over," said Jasper decidedly. "Send your men with
lanterns; don't touch a single thing here, James, I'll come back," and he
sprang off.

"No, no, sor," said James, touching his cap. "Now, boys," to the workmen,
"you can leave this here; get your lanterns and help the master."

"All right," said the men.

"Polly, you and Alexia keep on hunting, won't you?" called Jasper over his
shoulder, as the boys flew off.

"Yes, we will," called back Polly, who would very much have preferred the
pleasures of "the dump," a big dell in process of filling up with just such
debris as had now been added.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Alexia discontentedly, "now we're mewed up here
when we might be in that dear old sweet dump, Polly Pepper; and all because
we're girls."

"Well, we can't help it," said Polly, with a sigh, who wished very much
sometimes that she might be a boy, "so we'd much better keep at work
hunting for that ten-dollar bill, Alexia."

"And Joel is so dreadfully careless," said Alexia, determined to grumble at
something, and poking aimlessly at the green branches scattered on the
floor. "I don't suppose we'll ever find it in all this world, in such a
mess."

"We must," said Polly, a little white line coming around her mouth.

"Well, we can't, so what's the use of saying that?" and Alexia gave a
restful stretch to her long arms. "Oh, me! oh, my! I'm so tired, Polly
Pepper!"

"You know we must find that ten-dollar bill, Alexia," repeated Polly
hoarsely, working busily away for dear life.

"Well, we can't; it's perfectly hopeless--so do keep still. Just look at
all this." Alexia waved her arms at the green draperies. "I'm going to pull
the rest down anyway, though; that'll be fun," and she made a dash at it.

"No, no," said Polly, on her knees on the floor, "we must leave all that
till Jasper comes back. Come, Alexia, help me look over these."

"Oh, bother!" cried Alexia, in great disdain, "I don't want to poke over
those old things. You know yourself it's no earthly use; we'll never find
it in all this world, Polly Pepper."

There was a queer little sound, and Alexia, whirling around, saw Polly
Pepper in a little heap down in the middle of the green branches.

"Oh, misery! what have I done?"--rushing over to her and shaking her arms.
"Oh, Polly, do get up, we _will_ find it, I'm positively sure; do get
up, Polly." But Polly didn't stir.

"Oh, dear me!" wailed Alexia. "Polly, _please_ get up." She ran all
around her, wringing her hands. "Oh, what did I say it for! Polly, Polly
Pepper, we'll find it, as sure as anything. We can't help but find it.
Polly, do get up."

She flung herself down on her knees and began to pat the white face. Polly
opened her eyes and looked at her.

"What did you say such dreadful things for, Alexia?" she said
reproachfully.

"Oh, I couldn't help it," exclaimed Alexia remorsefully. "There! Oh, dear
me! you've scared me 'most to death, Polly Pepper. Do get up." So Polly sat
straight, and Alexia fussed over her, all the while repeating, "We will
find it, Polly."

"Dear me!" said Polly, "this isn't hunting for that ten-dollar bill."

"Well, what's the use?" began Alexia. "Oh, yes, of course we'll find it,"
she brought herself up quickly. "Now, Polly, I tell you." She sprang to her
feet. "Let's clear a place in this corner"--and she rushed over to it--"and
then pick up every branch and shake it, and put it over here. Then we'll
know surely whether that horrid thing is on the floor or not."

"So we shall," cried Polly, getting up on her feet; "that's fine, Alexia!"
And they set to work so busily they didn't hear when the boys came back
from their search. But the first moment she saw Jasper's face, Polly knew
that the hunt was unsuccessful, and the next minute Joel threw himself into
her arms and hugged her closely.

"Oh, Polly," he sobbed, "it's gone, and it's my fault."

"Cheer up, old fellow," said Jasper, clapping him on the back; "we'll find
it yet."

Van and Percy stood dismally by, knocking their heels against the arbor
side, and feeling quite sure they should burst out crying in another
minute, if Joel didn't stop.

Polly patted his poor head and cuddled it in her neck. "Oh, Joey, we'll
find it," she said, swallowing a big lump in her throat; "don't cry, dear,"
while Alexia sniffed and wrung her hands, fiercely turning her back on them
all.

"Now, boys," said Jasper, in his cheeriest fashion, "we'll all set to work
on these vines that are left. Come on, now, and let's see who will work the
fastest."

"I will," announced Van, rushing over to twitch down the green drapery that
had been such a piece of work for the gardeners to put up. Percy said
nothing, but set to work quietly, lifting each branch to peer under it.

"Take care," warned Jasper, pausing a minute in his own work to look over
at Van's reckless fingers; "you must shake each one as you pull it down,
before you throw it out on the grass, else we'll have all our work to do
over again. Oh, Alexia, are you coming to help?"

"Of course I am," declared Alexia. "Oh, Van, what a piece of work you are
making!"

Polly was whispering to Joel, "We ought to help," when Van gave a shout,
"I've found it! I've found it!"

"Hurrah!" Jasper leapt down from the railing and plunged up in great
excitement to Polly and Joel. "There, old fellow, what did I tell you?" he
cried with glowing face, and clapping Joel on the back again.

"Phoh!" exclaimed Percy, in great contempt, "he hasn't, either; it's only a
bit of green paper."

"I thought I had," said Van, quite crestfallen, and flinging down the dingy
bit; "it looked just like it."

It was too much; and Joel, who had hopped out of Polly's lap, flung himself
on the floor and cried as if his heart would break. They couldn't get him
out of it, so Jasper just picked him up and marched off to the house with
him to give him to Mother Fisher.

And the next morning, search as hard as they could--and everybody was
hunting by that time--not a trace of the ten-dollar bill could be
discovered. And Mrs. Chatterton took pains to waylay Joel in the hall or on
the stairs at all possible opportunities, and ask him, with a smile at his
swollen nose and eyes (for he had cried so he could hardly see), if he had
found it yet. But these chances became very few, for it was Jasper's and
Polly's very especial business to keep guard over Joel, and try to divert
him in every way. Meantime the hunt went on. And the third day, when it
became perfectly apparent to the entire household that the banknote was in
such a clever hiding-place that no one could find it, Joel, his tears all
gone, marched into Mr. King's writing-room and up to his big table, and
without a bit of warning burst out:

"I want to sell tin!"

"Eh, what?" exclaimed the old gentleman, looking over his glasses. "What is
that you are saying, Joey, my boy?"

"I want to sell tin," said Joel bluntly.

_"Want to sell tin!"_ ejaculated old Mr. King, in amazement.

"Yes, sir, just like Mr. Biggs; he got lots of money. May I, Grandpapa?
Please say I may." Joel ran around the writing-table to plant himself by
the old gentleman's chair.

"Oh, my goodness!" exclaimed Mr. King, leaning back in dismay, "whatever
can you mean, my boy?"

"Grandpapa"--Joel laid a brown hand on the velvet morning-jacket, and
brought his black eyes very close to the gentleman's face--"I've got to
earn that ten dollars; I've got to, Grandpapa, 'cause I lost it." Joel's
voice broke here, but he recovered it and dashed on, "And I can't do it
unless you will let me sell tin. _Please,_ Grandpapa dear. Mr. Biggs
used to, in Badgertown, you know, and he took me with him sometimes on his
cart, so I know how; and I can sell a lot. I can wheel it in my express
wagon, and--" Joel by this time was running on so glibly, under the
impression that if he didn't stop, Mr. King would be induced to say yes,
that the old gentleman was forced to put up his hand peremptorily.

"There, there, Joey, my boy," he said, settling his glasses that had
slipped to the end of his nose, and taking Joel's hand. "Now, then, let's
hear all about the matter."

And in a minute or two Joel was perched on the old gentleman's knee, and
they were having the most sociable time possible. And before long Joel
forgot he hadn't laughed for oh, such a long while, and lo and behold!
Grandpapa said something so very funny that they both burst out into a
merry peal, that rang out into the wide hall beyond.

"Joel is actually laughing," exclaimed Polly, coming soberly down the
stairs; and she was so overcome by the joyful sound that she sat right down
on the step. "Oh, dear me, how perfectly lovely!" she breathed, folding her
hands in delight.

"Isn't it!" Jasper slipped into a seat on the step by her side. "Now
everything is going to be fine when Joe can laugh!"

"Just hear him," cried Polly, pricking up her ears to catch the blissful
sound, "and Grandpapa, too. Oh, Jasper!"

"I know it," said Jasper, in great satisfaction. "Father has been so pulled
down because Joe took it so hard."

"Well, you see, Joel couldn't help it," cried Polly, "because it was
careless, just as Mamsie said, to leave anything without handing it to the
person."

"Of course," assented Jasper quickly. "Mrs. Fisher is right; but I'm sure
any one is likely to do it, and Joel was in such a hurry that day,
everybody pulling at him this way and that to get letters."

"I know it," said Polly, delighted to hear Joel's part taken, "and just
think how he worked before, Jasper. He helped such a perfect lot getting
the flower-table ready."

"He helped everywhere," declared Jasper, bringing down his hand with
emphasis on his knee. "I never saw anybody work as Joe did."

"And now to think that he has lost that money!" mourned Polly, her head
drooping sorrowfully over her closed hands. "Oh, dear me, Jasper!"

"But just hear him laugh," cried Jasper, springing up; "it's going to be
all right now, Polly, I do believe. Come, let's go and hunt some more for
the banknote."

So they both flew off from the stairs to begin the search for the money
again. For no one stopped--dear me, not a bit of it!--the hunt for the
hidden ten-dollar bill. Everybody but Phronsie and little Dick searched and
prowled in every nook and corner where there was the least possible chance
that the ten-dollar bill could be in hiding. They had both been so sleepy
on the evening of the garden party when the loss had been announced, that
it fell unheeded on their ears. And afterward all the household was careful
to keep the bad news from them. So the two children went on in blissful
unconsciousness of Joel's trouble, while the grand hunt proceeded all
around them.

When Joel emerged from Grandpapa King's writing-room, he was hanging to the
old gentleman's hand and looking up into his face and chattering away.

"You know it means work," said old Mr. King, looking down at him.

"I know, Grandpapa," said Joel, bobbing his stubby, black head.

"And you must keep at it," said the old gentleman decidedly, "else no pay.
There's to be no dropping the job, once you take it up. If you do, you'll
get no money. That's the bargain, Joe?"--with a keen glance into the chubby
face.

"Oh, I will, Grandpapa, I will," declared Joel eagerly, and hopping up and
down; "I'll do every single speck of the work. Now do let us hurry and get
the book."

"Yes, we'll hurry, seeing our business arrangement is all settled," laughed
the old gentleman. "Now, then, Joel, my boy, we'll go down-town and buy the
blank book, so that I can set you to work at once," and he grasped the
brown hand tightly, and away they went.

And in ten minutes everybody knew that Joel was going to make a list of all
the books in a certain case in old Mr. King's writing-room, and that
Grandpapa and he were already off down-town to buy a new blank book for the
work. And at the end of it--oh, joy!--Joel was to have a crisp ten-dollar
bill to replace the one he had lost.


XI

RACHEL


"Here she comes!" roared Mr. Tisbett. The townspeople, hurrying to
Badgertown depot to see the train bearing the new little girl sent on by
Mrs. Fisher to their parson's care, crowded up, Mr. and Mrs. Henderson
smilingly in the center of the biggest group.

"Oh, husband, I do pity her so!" breathed the parson's wife. "Poor thing,
she will be so shy and distressed!" The parson's heart gave a responsive
thrill, as he craned his neck to peer here and there for their new charge.
"She hasn't come. Oh, dear me!"--as a voice broke in at his elbow.

"I'm here." The words weren't much, to be sure, but the tone was wholly
self-possessed, and when the parson whirled around, and Mrs. Henderson, who
had been looking the other way, brought her gaze back, they saw a little
girl in a dark brown suit, a brown hat under which fell smooth braids of
black hair, who was regarding them with a pair of the keenest eyes they had
either of them ever seen.

"Oh--oh--my child--" stammered Mr. Henderson, putting out a kind hand. "So
you have come, Rachel?"

"Yes, I am Rachel," said the child, looking up into his face and laying her
hand in the parson's big one; then she turned her full regard upon the
minister's wife.

Mrs. Henderson was divided in her mind, for an instant, whether to kiss
this self-possessed child, as she had fully arranged in her mind beforehand
to do, or to let such a ceremony go by. But in a breathing space she had
her arms about her, and was drawing her to her breast.

"Rachel, dear, I am so glad you have come to us."

Rachel glanced up sharply, heaved a big sigh, and when she lifted her head
from Mrs. Henderson's neck, there was something bright that glistened in
either eye; she brushed it off before any one could spy it, as the parson
was saying:

"And now, where is your bag, child--er--Rachel, I mean?"

Rachel pointed to the end of the platform. "I'll go an' tell 'em to bring
it here."

"No, no, child." The parson started briskly.

"Let us all go," said Mrs. Henderson kindly, gathering Rachel's hand up in
one of hers. "Come, dear." So off they hurried, the platform's length, the
farmers and their wives looking after them with the greatest interest.

"My, but ain't Mrs. Henderson glad to get a girl, though!"

"Yes, she sets by her a'ready."

"Sakes alive! I thought she was a poor child," exclaimed one woman, who was
dreadfully disappointed to lose the anticipated object of charity.

"So she is," cried another--"as poor as Job's turkey, but Mr. King has
dressed her up, you know, an' he's goin' to edicate her, too."

"Well, she'll pay for it, I reckon. My! she looks smart, even the back of
her!"

And before very long, Rachel had been inducted into her room, a pretty
little one under the eaves, neat as a pin in blue-and-white chintz
covering, around which she had given a swift glance of approval. And now
she was down in the parsonage kitchen, in a calico gown and checked apron;
her own new brown ribbons having been taken off from her braids, rolled up
carefully, and laid in the top drawer, the common, every-day ones taking
their places.

Peletiah and Ezekiel were each in a corner of the kitchen, with their pale
blue eyes riveted on her.

"Well, dear," Mrs. Henderson greeted her kindly, "you have changed your
gown very quickly."

A tall, square-shouldered woman stalked in from the little entry.

"Oh, Jerusha," exclaimed Mrs. Henderson pleasantly, "this is the little
girl that Mrs. Fisher sent us. Rachel, go up and speak to Miss Jerusha."

Rachel went over obediently and put out her hand, which the parson's sister
didn't seem to see. Instead, she drew herself up stiffer than ever, and
stared at the child.

"Ah, well, I hope she won't forget that she's very poor, and that you've
taken her out of pity," said Miss Jerusha.

Rachel started back as if shot, and her black eyes flashed. "I ain't poor,"
she screamed. "I ain't goin' to be pitied."

"Yes, you are, too," declared Miss Jerusha, quite pleased at the effect of
her words, and telling off each syllable by bringing one set of bony
fingers down on the other emphatically; "in fact, you're a beggar, and my
brother----"

"I ain't, ain't, ain't!" screamed Rachel shrilly, and, flinging herself on
her face on the floor, she flapped her feet up and down and writhed in
distress. "I want to go home!" she sobbed.

The boys, for once in their lives, actually started, and presently they
were across the kitchen, to their mother, kneeling by Rachel's side.

"Don't let her go," they said together.

"She isn't going," said Mrs. Henderson, smoothing the shaking shoulders,
but Rachel screamed on.

"Dear me!" The parson hurried in at the uproar, his glasses set up on his
forehead where his nervous fingers had pushed them. "What is the matter?"

"That poor child," answered Miss Jerusha, pointing a long finger over at
the group in the middle of the kitchen, "is acting like Satan. I guess
you'll repent, brother, ever bringing her here."

"'Twas Aunt Jerusha," declared Peletiah bluntly, "and I wish she'd go
home."

"Hush, hush, dear," said his mother, looking up into his face.

There was an awful pause, the parson drew a long breath, then he turned to
his sister.

"Jerusha," he said, "I wish you would go into the sitting-room, if you
please."

"An' let you pet that beggar child," she exclaimed, in shrill scorn, but
she stalked off.

Mr. Henderson went swiftly across the kitchen and knelt down by his wife.

"Rachel"--he put his hand on the little girl's head--"get directly up, my
child!"

Rachel lifted her eyes, and peered about. "Has she gone--that dreadful,
bad, old woman?"

"There is no one here but those who love you," said the minister. "Now,
child, get directly up and sit in that chair." He indicated the one, and in
a minute Rachel was perched on it, with streaming eyes. Peletiah, having
started to get a towel, and in his trepidation presenting the dish-rag, the
parson dried her tears on his own handkerchief.

"Now, then, that is better," he said, in satisfaction, as they all grouped
around her chair.

"Rachel, there mustn't be anything of this sort--tears, I mean--again.
That lady is my sister, and----"

_"Your sister!"_ screamed Rachel, precipitating herself forward on her
chair in imminent danger of falling on her nose, to gaze at him in
amazement.

"Yes"--a dull red flush crept over the minister's face--"and--and whatever
she says, Rachel, why, you are not to mind, child."

"She ain't a-goin' to sass me," declared Rachel stoutly.

"Well, I don't believe she will again; let us hope not," said Mr.
Henderson, in a worried way. "However, you are not to cry; remember that,
Rachel, whatever happens," he added firmly: "you are to be happy here; this
is your home, and we all love you."

"You do?" said Rachel, much amazed, looking at them all. "Oh, well, then,
I'll stay." And slipping down from her chair, she seized Mrs. Henderson's
apron. "What'll I do? Mrs. Fisher told me how to wash dishes. May I do
'em?"

"Yes, and the boys shall wipe them," said Mrs. Henderson, and pretty soon
there was a gay little bustle in the old kitchen, the parson staying away
from the writing of the sermon to see it.

But Peletiah and Ezekiel were much too slow to suit Rachel, who got far
ahead of them, so she flew to the drawer in the big table where she had
seen them get the dish-towels, and, helping herself, she fell to work
drying some of the big pile in the drainer in the sink.

"I don't see how you can go so fast," observed Peletiah, laboriously
polishing up his plate.

"Well, I don't see how you can go so slow," retorted Rachel, with deft
passes of the towel over the cup. "My! I sh'd think your elbows had gone to
sleep."

"They haven't gone to sleep," said Peletiah, who was always literal; and
setting down his plate, half-dried, on the table, he turned over one arm to
investigate.

"Of course not, you little ninny," said Rachel lightly. "I didn't----"

"Rachel, Rachel!" said the parson's wife, over by the table. She was
getting her material together for baking pies, and she now added gently,
"We don't call each other names, you must remember that, child."

"Oh!" said Rachel. She stopped her busy towel a minute to think, then it
flapped harder and faster, to make up for lost time.

"Well, go ahead," she said to Peletiah, "and wipe your plate."

So Peletiah, letting his elbows take care of themselves, picked up his
plate and set to work on its surface again; and pretty soon the dishes were
all declared done, the pan and mop washed out, and hung up.

"What'll I do next?" Rachel smoothed down her apron and stood before the
baking-table, a boy on either side.

"Now, boys," said Mrs. Henderson, pausing in her work of rolling out the
pie crust, "I think you had better take Rachel down to see Grandma Bascom.
I've told her she's coming to-day, and she's quite impatient to see her.
And, Rachel, you can tell her about Mrs. Fisher and Polly and the boys. And
oh, Rachel, be sure to tell her about Phronsie; she does just love that
child so!"

The parson's wife leaned on the rolling-pin, and a bright color came into
her face.

"I'll tell her," said Rachel, a soft gleam in her eyes, and smoothing her
apron.

"And, Peletiah, go into the buttery, and get that little pat of butter done
up in a cloth, and give it to Grandma. I do wish my pies were baked"--and
she fell to work again--"so I could send her one."

So Peletiah went into the buttery and got the pat of butter, and the three
started off. The parson stepped away from the doorway into the entry, where
he had been silently watching proceedings, and went over to the window.

"Come here, Almira." He held out his hand.

She dropped her rolling-pin and ran over to his side. He drew her to him.

"See, dear," he said.

Rachel and the two boys were proceeding over the greensward leading down
the road. She had one on either side; and, wonder of wonders, they were all
hand in hand.

"We're going to see your Gran," said Rachel, a very sober expression
settling over her thin little face.

"What?" said Peletiah.

"Your Gran; that's what your mother said."

"Oh, no, she didn't," contradicted Peletiah; "we are going to Grandma
Bascom's."

"Well, that's the same thing," said Rachel; "she's your Gran, isn't she?"

"She's Grandma Bascom," repeated Peletiah stolidly.

"Oh, dear me! of course! But she's _your_ Gran, isn't she?"--her
tongue fairly aching to call him "ninny" again.

"No, she isn't; she isn't any one's Gran--she's just Grandma Bascom."

"Oh!" said Rachel. Perhaps it wasn't so very bad as she feared. She would
wait and see.

"She's dreadfully deaf," remarked Peletiah.

"What's that?"

"She can't hear unless you scream."

Rachel burst into a loud laugh, but it was very musical; and before they
knew it, although they were very much astonished, the two boys were
laughing, too, though they hadn't the least idea at what.

"I'm glad of it," announced Rachel, when she had gotten through. "I love to
scream. Sometimes it seems as if I'd die if I couldn't. Don't you?"

"No, I don't," said Peletiah, "ever feel so."

"Don't _you?"_ Rachel leaned over to peer into Ezekiel's face.

"No, I don't, either," he said.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Rachel, catching her breath. "Well, let's run."
And before either boy knew what was going to happen, she was hauling them
along at such a mad pace as they had never before in all their lives
indulged in.

The butter-pat slipped out of Peletiah's hand, gone on the wind, and landed
on the roadside grass.

"Wasn't that a good one!" cried Rachel, her eyes shining, as she brought up
suddenly. "Oh, my! ain't things sweet, though!"--wrinkling up her nose in
delight.

"I lost the butter-pat," observed Peletiah, when he could get his breath.

"I never see anything so beautiful," Rachel was saying, over and over. Then
she flung herself flat on the grass, and buried her nose in it, smelling it
hungrily. "Oh, my!"

"I lost the butter-pat," observed Peletiah again, and standing over her.

"And I'm a-goin' to live here," declared Rachel, in a transport, and
wriggling in the sweet clover, "if I'm good. I'm goin' to be good all the
time. Yes, sir!"

"I lost the butter-pat," repeated Peletiah.

"Butter-pat?" Rachel caught the last words and sprang to her feet.

"Oh, yes, I forgot; we must hurry with the butter-pat. Come on!" and she
whirled around on Peletiah. "Why, where--?" as she saw his empty hands.

"I lost the butter-pat," said Peletiah. "I've been telling you so."

"No, you haven't," contradicted Rachel flatly.

"Yes, I have," said Peletiah stolidly.

"No such thing." Rachel squared up to him, her black eyes flashing. "You
haven't said a single word, you bad, wicked boy."

"Yes, I have," repeated Peletiah, ready to say it over for all time; "I've
told you so a great many times."

Rachel looked at him, and put up both hands. The only thing proper to do
under such circumstances was to shake him smartly, but it seemed so like
attacking a granite post, and besides, he was the minister's son, and she
was going to be good, else they must send her away (so Mrs. Fisher had
said), so her arms flopped down to her side, and hung there dismally. And
she burst out:

"Where did you lose it, you nin--? I mean--oh, dear me!--where, I
say?"--frowning impatiently.

"Back there," said Peletiah, pointing down the road. "You pulled me along
so, it flew out of my hand."

Rachel set her teeth together hard.

"Come on!"

And he could never tell her. He was sworn to secrecy by every tradition
and instinct of his work. He could never tell her, and she would go on
thinking him a shirker and a coward. She would be grateful. She would be
sweetness itself. But deep in her heart she would loathe him, as only women
can hate for a failing they never forgive.

"But I have told you," he said rather wildly, "I am not idle. I do
certain things--not much, but of a degree of importance."

"You do not fight."
In Sara Lee's defense many things may be urged--her ignorance of
modern warfare; the isolation of her lack of knowledge of the
language; but, perhaps more than anything, a certain rigidity of
standard that comprehended no halfway ground.

Right was right and wrong was wrong to her in those days. Men were brave
or were cowards. Henri was worthy or unworthy. And she felt that, for all
his kindness to her, he was unworthy.

He could have set himself right with a word, at that. But his pride was hurt.
He said nothing except, when she asked if he had minded what she
said, to reply:

"I am sorry you feel as you do.

I am not angry."
He went away, however, without breakfast.

Sara Lee heard his car going at its usual breakneck speed up the street, and
went to the door. She would have called him back if she could, for
his eyes haunted her.

But he did not look back.

XIV

For four days the gray car did not come again. Supplies appeared in another
gray car, driven by a surly Fleming. The waking hours were full, as usual.
Sara Lee grew a little thin, and seemed to be always listening. But
there was no Henri, and something that was vivid and joyous seemed to have
gone out of the little house.

Even Marie no longer sang as she swept or washed the kettles, and Sara
Lee, making up the records to send home, put little spirit into
the letter that went with them.

On the second day she wrote to Harvey.

"I am sorry that you feel as you do," she wrote, perhaps unconsciously
using Henri's last words to her.

"I have not meant to be cruel.

And if you were here you would realize that whether others could have
done what I am doing or not--and of course many could--it is worth
doing.

I hear that other women are establishing houses like this, but the
British and the French will not allow women so near the lines.

The men come in at night from the trenches so tired, so hungry and so
cold.
Some of them are wounded too. I dress the little wounds. I do give them
something, Harvey dear--if it is only a reminder that there are
homes in the world, and everything is not mud and waiting and
killing."

She told him that his picture was on her mantel, but she did not say that
a corner of her room had been blown away or that the mantel was
but a plank from a destroyed house.

And she sent a great deal of love, but she did not say that she no longer
wore his ring on her finger.

And, of course, she was coming back to him if he still wanted her.

More than Henri's absence was troubling Sara Lee those days.

Indeed she herself laid all her anxiety to one thing, a serious one
at that.

With all the marvels of Henri's buying, and Jean's, her money was
not holding out. The scope of the little house had grown with its
fame.

Now and then there were unexpected calls, too--Marie's mother,
starving in Havre; sickness and death in the little town at the
crossroads: a dozen small emergencies, but adding to the demands
on her slender income.

She had, as a matter of fact, already begun to draw on her private
capital.

And during the days when no gray car appeared she faced the situation, took
stock, as it were, and grew heavy-eyed and wistful.

On the fifth day the gray car came again, but Jean drove it alone. He
disclaimed any need for sympathy over his wound, and with René's
aid carried in the supplies.

There was the business of checking them off, and the further business
of Sara Lee's paying for them in gold.

She sat at the table, Jean across, and struggled with centimes and francs
and louis d'or, an engrossed frown between her eyebrows.

Jean, sitting across, thought her rather changed. She smiled very seldom,
and her eyes were perhaps more steady. It was a young girl he and Henri
had brought out to the little house.

It was a very serious and rather anxious young woman who sat across
from him and piled up the money he had brought back into little
stacks.

"Jean," she said finally, "I am not going to be able to do it."
"To do what?"
"To continue--here."
"No?"

"You see I had a little money of my own, and twenty pounds I got in London.
You and--and Henri have done miracles for me.

But soon I shall have used all my own money, except enough to take me back.
And now I shall have to start on my English notes.

After that--"

"You are too good to the men. These cigarettes, now--you could do without
them."

"But they are very cheap, and they mean so much, Jean."
She sat still, her hands before her on the table.

From the kitchen came the bubbling of the eternal soup. Suddenly a tear
rolled slowly down her cheek. She had a hatred of crying in public,
but Jean apparently did not notice.

"The trouble, mademoiselle, is that you are trying to feed and comfort
too many."
"Jean," she said suddenly, "where is Henri?"

"In England, I think."

The only clear thought in Sara Lee's mind was that Henri was not in France,
and that he had gone without telling her. She had hurt him horribly. She
knew that. He might never come back to the little house of mercy. There
was, in Henri, for all his joyousness, an implacable strain.

And she had attacked his honor.

What possible right had she to do that?

The memory of all his thoughtful kindness came back, and it was a pale and
distracted Sara Lee who looked across the table at Jean.

"Did he tell you anything?"

"Nothing, mademoiselle."

"He is very angry with me, Jean."
"But surely no, mademoiselle. With you? It is impossible."
But though they said nothing more, Jean considered the matter deeply.
He understood now, for instance, a certain strangeness in Henri's
manner before his departure.

They had quarreled, these two. Perhaps it was as well, though Jean was by
now a convert to Sara Lee. But he looked out, those days, on but half a
world, did Jean. So he saw only the woman hunger in Henri, and nothing
deeper. And in Sara Lee a woman, and nothing more.

And--being Jean he shrugged his shoulders.

They fell to discussing ways and means. The chocolate could be cut out, but
not the cigarettes.

Sara Lee, arguing vehemently for them and trying to forget other things,
remembered suddenly how Uncle James had hated cigarettes, and that
Harvey himself disapproved of them.

Somehow Harvey seemed, those days, to present a constant figure of
disapproval.
He gave her no moral support.

At Jean's suggestion she added to her report of so many men fed
with soup, so much tobacco, sort not specified, so many small wounds
dressed--a request that if possible her allowance be increased.

She did it nervously, but when the letter had gone she felt a great
relief. She enclosed a snapshot of the little house.

Jean, as it happens, had lied about Henri. Not once, but several times.
He had told Marie, for instance, that Henri was in England, and
later on he told René.

Then, having done his errand, he drove six miles back along the main
road to Dunkirk and picked up Henri, who was sitting on the bank
of a canal watching an ammunition train go by.

Jean backed into a lane and turned the car round.

After that Henri got in and they went rapidly back toward the Front.

It was a different Henri, however, who left the car a mile from the
crossroads--a Henri in the uniform of a French private soldier,
one of those odd and impracticable uniforms of France during the
first year, baggy dark blue trousers, stiff cap, and the long-tailed
coat, its skirts turned back and faced.

Round his neck he wore a knitted scarf, which covered his chin, and,
true to the instinct of the French peasant in a winter campaign, he
wore innumerable undergarments, the red of a jersey showing through
rents in his coat.

Gone were Henri's long clean lines, his small waist and broad shoulders,
the swing of his walk. Instead, he walked with the bent-kneed swing of the
French infantryman, that tireless but awkward marching step which
renders the French Army so mobile.

He carried all the impedimenta of a man going into the trenches, an extra
jar of water, a flat loaf of bread strapped to his haversack, and
an intrenching tool jingling at his belt.

Even Jean smiled as he watched him moving along toward the crowded
crossroads--smiled and then sighed.

For Jean had lost everything in the war. His wife had died of a German
bullet long months before, and with her had gone a child much
prayed for and soon to come.

But Henri had brought back to Jean something to live for--or to die for, as
might happen.

Henri walked along gayly. He hailed other French soldiers. He joined a
handful and stood talking to them.

But he reached the crossroads before the ammunition train.

The crossroads was crowded, as usual--many soldiers, at rest, waiting for
the word to fall in, a battery held up by the breaking of a wheel.
A temporary forge had been set up, and soldiers in leather aprons
were working over the fire.

A handful of peasants watched, their dull eyes following every gesture.
And one of them was a man Henri sought.

Henri sat down on the ground and lighted a cigarette. The ammunition train
rolled in and halted, and the man Henri watched turned his attention
to the train.

He had been dull and quiet at the forge, but now he became smiling,
a good fellow.

He found a man he knew among the drivers and offered him a cigarette. He also
produced and presented an entire box of matches. Matches were very
dear, and hardly to be bought at any price.

Henri watched grimly and hummed a little song:
"_Trou la la, çà ne va guère_; _Trou la la, çà ne va pas_."

Still humming under his breath, when the peasant left the crossroads
he followed him.

Not closely. The peasant cut across the fields. Henri followed the road
and entered the fields at a different angle.

He knew his way quite well, for he had done the same thing each day for
four days. Only twice he had been a Belgian peasant, and once he was
an officer, and once he had been a priest.

Four days he had done this thing, but to-day was different. To-day there
would be something worth while, he fancied.

And he made a mental note that Sara Lee must not be in the little house that
night.

When he had got to a canal where the pollard willows were already sending
out their tiny red buds, Henri sat down again.

The village lay before him, desolate and ruined, a travesty of homes. And
on a slight rise, but so concealed from him by the willows that only the
great wings showed, stood the windmill.

It was the noon respite then, and beyond the line of poplars all was
quiet.
The enemy liked time for foods and the Belgians crippled by the
loss of that earlier train, were husbanding their ammunition.

Far away a gap in the poplar trees showed a German observation balloon,
a tiny dot against the sky.

The man Henri watched went slowly, for he carried a bag of grain
on his back.

Henri no longed watched him, He watched the wind wheel. It had been broken,
and one plane was now patched with what looked like a red cloth.

There was a good wind, but clearly the miller was idle that day.
The great wings were not turning.

Henri sat still and smoked. He thought of many things--of Sara Lee's
eyes when in the center of the London traffic she had held the dying
donkey; of her small and radiant figure at the Savoy; of the morning
he had found her at Calais, in the Gare Maritime, quietly unconscious
that she had done a courageous thing.

And he thought, too, of the ring and the photograph she carried.

But mostly he remembered the things she had said to him on their last
meeting.

Perhaps there came to him his temptation too. It would be so easy that night,
if things went well, to make a brave showing before her, to let her see
that these odd jobs he did had their value and their risks. But he put
that from him.

The little house of mercy must be empty that night, for her sake. He
shivered as he remembered the room where she slept, the corner
that was shot away and left open to the street.

So he sat and watched. And at one o'clock the mill wheel began turning.
It was easy to count the revolutions by the red wing.

Nine times it turned, and stopped. After five minutes or so it turned again,
thirty times.

Henri smiled: an ugly smile.

"A good guess," he said to himself. "But it must be more than a guess."

His work for the afternoon was done. Still with the bent-kneed swing he
struck back to the road, and avoiding the crossroads, went across
more fields to a lane where Jean waited with the car.

Henri took a plunge into the canal when he had removed his French
uniform, and producing a towel from under a bush rubbed himself dry.

His lean boyish body gleamed, arms and legs brown from much swimming
under peaceful summer suns.

On his chest he showed two scars, still pink. Shrapnel bites, he called them.
But he had, it is to be feared, a certain young satisfaction in
them.

He was in high good humor. The water was icy, and Jean had refused to join
him.

"My passion for cleanliness," Henri said blithely, "is the result
of my English school days.

You would have been the better for an English education, Jean."
"A canal in March!" Jean grunted. "You will end badly."
Henri looked longingly at the water.

"Had I a dry towel," he said, "I would go in again."
Jean looked at him with his one eye.

"You would be prettier without those scars," he observed.

But in his heart he prayed that there might be no others added to them,
that nothing might mar or destroy that bright and youthful body.

"_Dépêchez-vous! Vous sommes pressés_!" he added.

But Henri was minded to play. He girded himself with the towel and
struck an attitude.

"The Russian ballet, Jean!" he said, and capering madly sent Jean into deep
grumbles of laughter by his burlesque.

"I must have exercise," Henri said at last when, breathless and with flying
hair, he began to dress. "That, too, is my English schooling.

If you, Jean--"
"To the devil with your English schooling!" Jean remonstrated.

Henri sobered quickly after that.

The exhilaration of his cold plunge was over.

"The American lady?" he asked. "She is all right?"
"She is worried.

There is not enough money."
Henri frowned.

"And I have nothing!"
This opened up an old wound with Jean.

"If you would be practical and take pay for what you are doing," he
began.

Henri cut him short.

"Pay!" he said. "What is there to pay me with?

And what is the use of reopening the matter?

A man may be a spy for love of his country. God knows there is enough lying
and deceit in the business. But to be a spy for money--never!"
There was a little silence.

Then: "Now for mademoiselle," said Henri.

"She must be out of the village to-night. And that, dear friend, must be
your affair. She does not like me."
All the life had gone out of his voice.

XV

"But why should I go?" Sara Lee asked.

"It is kind of you to ask me, Jean. But I am here to work, not to play."

Long ago Sara Lee had abandoned her idea of Jean as a paid chauffeur.

She even surmised, from something Marie had said, that he had been
a person of importance in the Belgium of before the war.

So she was grateful, but inclined to be obstinate.

"You have been so much alone, mademoiselle--"
"Alone!"

"Cut off from your own kind. And now and then one finds, at the hotel in
Dunkirk, some English nurses who are having a holiday.

You would like to talk to them perhaps."
"Jean," she said unexpectedly, "why don't you tell me the truth?

You want me to leave the village to-night.

Why?"

"Because, mademoiselle, there will be a bombardment."

"The village itself?"

"We expect it," he answered dryly.

Sara Lee went a little pale.

"But then I shall be needed, as I was before."
"No troops will pass through the town to-night. They will take a
road beyond the fields."
"How do you know these things?" she asked, wondering. "About the
troops I can understand. But the bombardment."
"There are ways of finding out, mademoiselle," he replied in his
noncommittal voice. "Now, will you go?"
"May I tell Marie and René?" 
"No."
"Then I shall not go. How can you think that I would consider my
own safety and leave them here?"
Jean had ascertained before speaking that Marie was not in the
house.
As for René, he sat on the single doorstep and whittled pegs on
which to hang his rifle inside the door. And as he carved he sang
words of his own to the tune of Tipperary.
Inside the little _salle à manger_ Jean reassured Sara Lee. It was
important--vital--that René and Marie should not know far in advance
of the bombardment. They were loyal, certainly, but these were his
orders. In abundance of time they would be warned to leave the
village.Oh,
my!"

"My mother said----"

"Yes, yes, I know," interrupted Rachel, splashing away for dear life;
"well, now we must hurry and get these dishes done."

"And then we can go out and play," said Ezekiel, departing with the plate
he was drying to a safe distance from the hot shower from Rachel's busy
fingers.

"Yes. Oh, my, what fun! Let's hurry." And before the boys quite knew how,
the dishes were all piled in the pantry, the dishpan and mop washed out and
hung up to dry, and the crumbs swept from the kitchen floor.

"There," said Rachel, smoothing down her apron in great satisfaction, "now
we can go out. Come on, I'm going to the corner to see that funeral go by."

"We can't," said Peletiah, trying his best to hurry after her. "Mother
doesn't let us go out of the yard when she's away; and beside, there isn't
any corner--the road just goes round."

"Oh, bother!" Rachel whirled around and stamped her foot impatiently.

"And 'twill come past our house," contributed Ezekiel, gaining her side,
"so let's sit on the doorstep till it comes."

"And you can tell us about the funerals you've seen in the city," suggested
Peletiah, who had been thinking about them ever since.

"All right," said Rachel, seeing she was not to lose sight of the parade
she so dearly loved. "Whoopity--la!" She flung herself down on the long,
flat doorstone, and whipped her gown neatly away on either side. "I'm goin'
to sit in the middle."

The boys, very much pleased at this arrangement, which they would never
have thought of suggesting, sat down sedately in their places and folded
their hands in their laps.

"Now tell about those funerals," said Peletiah.

"Well, let me think," said Rachel, reflecting; "you see, I've seen so many.
Hmm! Oh, I know!" She jumped so suddenly that she came near precipitating
Ezekiel, who was leaning forward to attain a better view of her face, off
into the middle of the peony bed.

"Take care!" Rachel twitched him back into his place. "Yes, I'm goin' to
tell you about one perfectly splendid funeral I see just----"

"You mustn't say 'see,'" corrected Peletiah, with disapproval. He was
fairly longing for the recital, but it would never do to let such a slip in
conversation pass.

"Well, what shall I say, then?" cried Rachel pertly, and not at all pleased
at the interruption.

"You must say 'saw.'"

"I didn't saw it; you can't saw a thing," she declared contemptuously.
"You've got to see it, or else you can't say you did. So there,
Pel--Pel--whatever your name is."

"My name is Peletiah," he said solemnly,

"Peletiah--oh. dear me!" Rachel put her face between her two hands and
began to giggle.

"Tell about the funeral," said Ezekiel, twitching her sleeve.

"And you must say 'saw,'" reiterated Peletiah.

"I can't; 'tain't right, an' I ain't a-goin' to say 'saw' to please you, so
there, now!" declared Rachel, bringing up her head and setting her mouth
obstinately.

"Then I ain't going to sit here," said Peletiah, getting off from the
door-stone, "because my mother wouldn't like it; she always makes me say
'saw.'"

_(For the Mirror.)_
The first dissection on record, is one in which Democritus of Obdera,
was engaged, in order to ascertain the sources and course of the bile.

--It was the custom among the Egyptians, to carry about at their
feasts a skeleton, least their guests, in the midst of feasting and
merriment, should forget the frail tenure of life and its
enjoyments.

The most ancient eclipse upon record, was observed by the Chaldeans 721
years before the Christian era, and recorded by Ptolemy. The observation
was made at Babylon the 19th of March.

--In ancient days, for want of parchment to draw deeds upon, great estates
were frequently conveyed from one family to another only by the
ceremony of a turf and a stone, delivered before witnesses, and
without any written agreement.

--It is singular, that by the Doomsday Book, as quoted by Camden, there
appears to have been in Lincoln, when that survey was taken, no
less than 1070 "inns for entertainment."

--Henry I., about the year 1125, caused to be made a standard yard,
from the length of his own arm, in order to prevent frauds in the
measurement of cloth.

This standard is supposed to have been deposited, with other measures, &c.
in Winchester; he likewise (it is said) ordered halfpence and
farthings to be made round, which before his time were square.

--The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were first called "studia," or
"studies."

--Edward the Confessor received yearly, from the manor of Barton, near
Gloucester, 3,000 loaves of bread for the maintenance of his dogs--In the
reign of Edward III., only three taverns might sell sweet wines in
London; one in Cheape, one in Wallbrook, and the other in Lombard
Street.

--Lord Lyttleton, in his Life of Henry II., vol. i. p. 50, says,
"Most of our ancient historians give him the character of a very
religious prince, but his religion was, after the fashion of those
times, belief without examination, and devotion without piety.

It was a religion that at the same time allowed him to pillage
kingdoms, that threw him on his knees before a relic or a cross,
but suffered him unrestrained to trample upon the liberties and
rights of mankind;" again, "his government was harsh and despotic,
violating even the principles of that institution which he himself
had established.

"What!" exclaimed Rachel, horribly disappointed. Then she flew away from
the gate and turned her back on it all. "I wish I was back in the city!"
she said.


XIII

"SHE'S GOING TO STAY HERE FOREVER"


It was dreadful; and after she had said it, Rachel stood overwhelmed with
distress. "Don't you tell your father." She whirled around and clutched
Peletiah's sleeve.

"We must," he said; "he's the minister, and we have to tell him
everything."

"Well, don't tell your mother, anyway," she begged anxiously.

"We must," said Peletiah again, "because we tell her everything, too."

"Then she'll send me back." Rachel, quite gone in despair, gave a loud cry
and threw herself face downward on the grass, where she sobbed as if her
heart would break.

This was so much worse than he had imagined, as any possible effect from
his words, that Peletiah couldn't speak, but stood over her in silent
misery. Seeing this, Ezekiel took matters into his own hands.

"I'm going to run after the funeral and get Ma to come home; she'll be at
the top of the procession," and he moved off toward the gateway.

"Stop!" Rachel squealed; then she sprang to her feet. "Don't you stir a
step, you!" she commanded.

"They're all hearing you," observed Peletiah, who, seeing Rachel upon her
feet, found his spirits reviving, and he pointed to the line of buggies and
chaises. "See 'em looking back; my father won't like it."

"Oh, dear me!" Rachel struggled with her sobs. "You shouldn't 'a' told me
you had 'em. That ain't a funeral."

"It is, too," declared Peletiah; "it's Miss Bedlow's funeral, and my Pa is
going to bury her."

"It ain't, either; an' that's a baker's cart," said Rachel, pointing to the
departing hearse with scorn.

"Oh, oh, what a story!" exclaimed Ezekiel, who was just on the point of
reproving his brother for contradicting, and he pointed his brown finger at
her. "That's got Miss Bedlow in, and they're taking her to the
burying-ground, and it's her funeral."

"Well, I don't want to go back to the city," said Rachel hastily,
dismissing Miss Bedlow and her funeral and all discussion thereon
summarily, and she dug the toe of her shoe into the gravel; "don't let your
mother send me back."

"You said you wished you were back there," observed Peletiah severely,
fixing his pale eyes on her distressed face, along which the tears were
making little paths.

"Well, I don't care. I don't want to go. Don't let her!" She seized his arm
and shook it smartly.

"You're shaking me!" said Peletiah, in astonishment.

"I know it, an' I'm goin' to," said Rachel, stamping her foot.

"You ain't going to shake my brother," declared Ezekiel loudly, "and we'll
make you go back if you shake us," he added vindictively.

"Oh, dear, dear!" Rachel dropped Peletiah's arm, and she hid her face in
her hands. "Don't make me go back," she wailed. "It's too dreadful there,
for Mrs. Fisher won't have me if you send me away, 'n' Gran 'll get hold of
me somehow--she'll--she'll find me, I know she will," and she shivered all
over.

"Who's Gran?" Peletiah drew quite near.

"She's Gran," said Rachel, shivering again. "Oh, dear! don't ask me; and
she beat me dreadful, an'--" her voice broke.

"She beat you?" cried Peletiah.

"Awful," said Rachel, cramming her fingers into her mouth to keep from
crying. "Oh, dear, dear! don't send me back."

Peletiah took two or three steps off, then came back.

"You may shake me if you want to," he said generously, "and you ain't going
back."

"Well, she isn't going to shake me," said Ezekiel stoutly, "and my Ma will
send her back if she shakes me, so there!"

"I hain't shook you yet," said Rachel, disclosing her black eyes between
her fingers and viewing him with cold disdain.

"Well, you ain't going to," repeated Ezekiel, with decision.

"Her Gran beat her." Peletiah went over to his brother. "She beat Rachel."
He kept repeating it, over and over; meanwhile Ezekiel moved about in
confusion, digging the toes of his shoes into the gravel to hide it.

"Well, she ain't going to shake me," he said, but it was in a fainter
voice, and he didn't look at Rachel's eyes.

"And you mustn't ask Mother to send her back," said Peletiah stubbornly.

"She ain't going to shake me." It was now so low that scarcely any one
could hear it.

"And you mustn't ask Mother to send her back," said Peletiah again. "She's
going to stay here just for ever and ever."

There was something in his tone that made Ezekiel hasten to say:

"Oh, I won't."

"And I won't shake you," said Rachel, flying out from behind her hands and
up to him, "if you'll only let me stay here; just let me stay," she cried,
hungrily.

"Well," said Ezekiel, with a great deal of condescension, "if you won't
shake me, you may stay at our house."

So the children went back to the flat door-stone to talk it over, Peletiah
saying:

"Maybe you can go to school with us next fall."

"Oh, my!" exclaimed Rachel, with wide eyes, and clasping her hands, "I've
got to learn a lot first."

"Yes, my father's got to teach you first," said Peletiah.

"Where's he going to do it?" Rachel leaned over to get a comprehensive view
of his face.

"In his study," answered Peletiah.

"Where's that?"

"That's where he writes his sermons in, that he preaches at people
Sundays," said Ezekiel, finding it very pleasant to be communicative, now
that he was quite sure the new girl would not shake him.

"Oh, how nice!" breathed Rachel. "That's scrumptious!"

"That's what?" asked Peletiah critically.

"Scrumptious. Haven't you ever heard that? Oh, what a nin--I mean, oh, how
funny!"

"And it ain't nice at all to have my father teach you," said Peletiah, with
very doleful ideas of that study.

"Why?" asked Rachel, with gathering dread.

"Oh, he makes you learn things," said Peletiah dismally, drawing a long
sigh at the remembrance.

"But that's just what I want to do," cried Rachel, with sparkling eyes;
"I'm goin' to learn an' learn, till I can't learn no more."

Peletiah was so occupied in edging off from her that he forgot to correct
her speech.

"Yes, I'm goin' to learn," exclaimed Rachel, in a glad little shout, and,
springing to her feet, she swung her arms over her head. "I'm goin' to read
an' I'm goin' to write, an' then I can write a letter to my Phronsie."

She ended up with a cheese, plunging down on the grass and puffing out her
gown like a small balloon.

"You can't do that," she said, nodding triumphantly up at the two boys.

"I don't want to," said Peletiah, sitting still on the door-stone.

"Well, you can't, anyway, 'cause you haven't got a frock. Well, now, let's
play," and she hopped to her feet. "Come on. What'll it be?"

"I'll show you the brook," volunteered Ezekiel, getting up.

"What's a brook?" asked Rachel.

"Hoh--hoh!" Ezekiel really laughed, it was so funny. "She doesn't know what
a brook is," he said, and he laughed again.

"Well, what is it?" demanded Rachel, laughing good-naturedly.

"It's water."

"I don't want to see any water," said Rachel, turning off disdainfully;
"there's nothing pretty in that."

"But it's awfully pretty," said Peletiah; "it runs all down over the
stones, and under the trees and----"

"Where is it?" cried Rachel, running up to him in great excitement. "Oh,
take me to it."

"It's just back of the house," said Ezekiel; "I'll show you the way."

But Rachel, once directed, got there first, and was down on her knees on
the bank, dabbling her hands in the purling little stream, half wild with
delight.

And when the parson and his wife got home from Miss Bedlow's funeral, they
found the three children there, perfectly absorbed in the labor of sailing
boats of cabbage leaves, and guiding their uncertain craft in and out the
shimmering pools and down through the tiny rapids. Go Hermes, Hercules,
and Mars, Fraught with these bills on Henry Hase, Drop with yon
jester from the stars, And build a church in Langham-place."

_London Lyrics-New Monthly Mag._
Among all our specimens of contemporary church-building, none has excited
more animadversion than _All-Souls'_, Langham-place, erected in
1822-1825, from the designs of Mr.

Nash. Its general effect is extraordinary and objectionable; but,
unfortunately for what merit it really possesses, many of its
assailants have so far disregarded the just principles of taste and
criticism, as to go laboriously out of their way to be profanely
witty on its defects.

Song and satire, raillery and ridicule, pun and pasquinade, and even the
coarseness of caricature, have thus been let off at this specimen
of NASH-_ional_ architecture; whilst their authors have wittingly
kept out any redeeming graces which could be found in its architectural
details.

The principal features of the exterior were suggested by its situation, it
being placed on an angular plot of ground, between Langham-place and
Regent-street. To afford an advantageous view from either point, the tower,
which is circular, is nearly detached from the body of the church, and
is surrounded by columns of the modern Ionic order, supporting an entablature,
crowned by a balustrade, which is continued along the sides of
the church.

Above the portico is a Corinthian peristyle, the base of which is
also that of a fluted cone, which forms the spire, and is terminated
in an acute point.

The steeple is complete in itself, and adapted to its situation, having the
same appearance which ever way it is viewed. This portion of the edifice
has, however, been more stigmatized than any other, although it
has been pronounced by persons of taste and accredited judgment to
be the best steeple recently erected.

To our eye, the church itself, _apart_ from the tower, (for such it
almost is) is perhaps, one of the most miserable structures in the metropolis,--in
its starved proportions more resembling a manufactory, or warehouse,
than the impressive character of a church exterior; an effect to
which the Londoner is not an entire stranger.

Here, too, we are inclined to ascribe much of the ridicule, which the whole
church has received, to its puny proportions and scantiness of decoration,
which are far from being assisted by any stupendousness in their
details, the first impression of which might probably have fixed
the attention of the spectator.

Indeed, the whole style of the tower and steeple appears peculiarly
illadapted for so small a scale as has here been attempted.

As we love "a jest's prosperity," we recommend such of our readers as are
partial to innocent pasquinade, to turn to the "Lyric," in a recent volume
of the _New Monthly Magazine_, commencing as above. It is too long for
entire insertion here, but its raciness will doubtless gratify those who
may be induced to refer to it.

* * * * *
TREMENDOUS RAINS.

_(For the Mirror.)_

Like a low-hung cloud, _it rains so fast_, That all at once it falls.

--DRYDEN.

There are two English proverbs relative to rain; the first is, "_It rains
by Planets._" "This the country people (says Ray) use when it rains
in one place and not in another; meaning that the showers are
governed by planets, which being erratic in their own motions, cause
such uncertain wandering of clouds and falls of rain.

Or it rains by planets--that is, the falls of showers are as uncertain,
as the motions of the planets are imagined to be." The second--"_It
never rains but it pours:_" which appears to be the case at present.
King, who
rescued her from her terrible surroundings, and we couldn't possibly
surrender this charge to another. But I will tell you what we might do,
husband," and her eyes sought his face. "Rachel might go down now and then
to spend the day with Miss Parrott. Oh, your beautiful house!" she broke
off like a child in her enthusiasm. "I do so want her to be in it
sometimes." She turned suddenly to the visitor.

Miss Parrott's old face glowed, and a smile lingered among the wrinkles.

"And she must pass the night occasionally," she said. There was a world of
entreaty in her eyes. "I think so," said Mrs. Henderson, "but we must leave
that to Rachel."

And Rachel, in the keeping-room closet, was trilling up and down some of
the jigs her feet had kept time to when she, with the other tenement-house
children, had run out to dance on the corner when the organ man came round,
all unconscious of what was going on in the study.

"What's that?" cried Miss Parrott, starting. The conference was over and
she was coming out of the pastor's study, to get into her ancestral
carriage.

"That's Rachel singing," said Mrs. Henderson.

Old Miss Parrott gasped:

"Why, my dear Pastor, and Mrs. Henderson, can the child sing like that?"

"This is the first time she has tried it," said the parson, who had no ear
for music and was sorely tried when expected to admire any specimens of it.
"But I dare say she will do very well. She is a very teachable child."

"Very well!" repeated Miss Parrott quickly. "I should say so indeed. Well,
I will send for the child on Saturday to pass the day and night with me,
and then we shall see what we shall see."

With which enigmatical expression, she mounted her ancestral carriage; the
solemn coachman, who had served considerably more than a generation in the
family, gathered up the reins, and the coach rumbled off.

"Oh, what an awful old carriage!" exclaimed Rachel, running to the window.
"It looks as if its bones would stick out."

"It hasn't got any bones," said Peletiah, viewing it with awe, "and she's
awful rich, Miss Parrott is."

"I don't care," said Rachel, running back to her work and beginning to sing
again, "her carriage is all bones, anyway."


XIV

"CAN'T GO," SAID JOEL


"Joel--where are you?" Frick Mason raced in, to encounter Polly in the wide
hall. "Oh, dear me!"--not pausing for an answer--"all the boys are waiting
for him outside. Please tell him to hurry, Polly," for Joel's friends
always felt if they could only get Polly on their side, they were sure of
success, and he shifted his feet in impatience.

"I don't know in the least where Joel is," said Polly, pausing in her run
through the hall. She had promised Alexia to be over at her house at nine
o'clock, and there it was, the big clock in the corner stated plainly, five
minutes of that hour. "Oh, dear me! I wish I could help you," and she
wrinkled up her brows in distress.

Frick sat down on one of the big, carved chairs and fairly whined:

"I've chased and chased all about here, and no one knows where Joel is.
Polly, do find him for me," and he began to sniffle.

"Oh, I can't," began Polly impatiently, then she finished, "Dear me! Why, I
don't know in the very least where Joel is, Frick!--not the leastest bit in
the world."

"Oh, yes, you can find him," said Frick, sniffling dreadfully, and
beginning to wheedle and beg. "Do, Polly." He seized her gown. "The boys
can't do anything without Joel, and they've sent me for him."

"And I'm sure I can't do anything"--Polly shook her gown free--"so there's
no use in asking me to stand here and talk about it, Frick Mason. And just
look at that clock--two minutes of nine." She pointed tragically up to the
big clock. "And I promised to be at Alexia's--" The last words came back to
him as she disappeared out to the veranda and down the steps, racing off as
hard as she could.

Frick got off from his chair, took three or four steps hopelessly, then
stiffened up.

"I'm going to find him," he announced to himself, and turning down the
angle, he knocked at the first door on the left.

"Hullo!" exclaimed Joel, unlocking the door and opening it.

"Oh, you're here." Frick seized him on both sides, wishing he had twice the
number of hands to employ; then he tried to run in, but Joel shook off the
grasp, pushed to the door, only leaving the scantiest space to allow of
conversation.

"You can't come in," he said steadily.

"Hold on! don't shut the door," cried Frick, pressing up closely and still
endeavoring to get a good grasp on some of Joel's clothing. "Ow! you 'most
smashed my nose, Joel Pepper."

"You must take your nose away then," said Joel decidedly, "for I'm going to
shut the door if you scrouge so."

"Well, let me come in," said Frick, struggling violently. "Say, Joel, don't
shut the door."

For answer Joel slammed to the door, and the key clicked in the lock.

"I said I'd do it, if you scrouged and pushed, and I must," he answered,
with the air of a man performing his duty. "This is my Grandpapa's
writing-room, and you mustn't come in, Frick Mason."

Frick slid down to the floor and laid his mouth alongside the crack, with
the feeling that his message would be more impressive delivered in that
way, since he was not to be admitted to the apartment to give it in due
form.

"The boys want you, Joel; they're all waiting for us outside. Hurry up."
Having delivered it, Frick got up to his feet in a hurry, confident that
the door would be flung wide, to let Joel come hopping out in delight, and
not choosing to be run over in the process.

"Can't go," said Joel, in muffled accents, on the other side of the door.

"What?" roared Frick, not believing his ears.

"Can't go," repeated Joel. "Go right away from this door."

"What did you say?" Frick slid to the floor again and beat his hands on the
polished surface. "Say, Joel, we want you to come. We're all waiting for
you, don't you understand?" He kept saying it over and over, under the
impression that if he only repeated it enough, the door would open.

"And I say I can't go," declared Joel, in a high, wrathful key. "If you
don't go away and let this door alone, I'll come out and pound you."

"We're going to the pond," said Frick, exactly as if responding to the most
cordial request to furnish the plan. "We've got Larry's boat, and Webb is
going to take his father's, and----"

"Ow--go away!" roared Joel, in an awful voice.

"And we're going to take our luncheon and stop at Egg Rock, and----"

The door flew open wildly, and Joel leaped out over Frick, flattened on the
floor.

"Didn't I tell you to let me alone?" cried Joel, on top of the messenger,
and pommeling away briskly, "Say, didn't I tell? Say, didn't I tell you?"

The noise all this made was sufficient to bring Jane, who didn't stop to
drop her broom.

"My goodness me, Master Joel!" she said, running down from the
stair-landing, "what are you doing?"

"Pommeling him," said Joel cheerfully, and not looking up.

"Well, you stop it this minute," commanded Jane, waving her broom over the
two figures, for by this time Frick had managed to roll over and was now
putting up quite a vigorous little fight in his own defense.

"I can't," said Joel; "I promised him."

"Oh, dear me!" cried Jane, bringing her broom down smartly on as much of
the surface of either boy as was possible. "I'll scream for Mrs. Fisher if
you don't stop, you two boys. I will, as true as anything!"

"Oh, no, you mustn't, Jane," said Joel. His brown fists wavered in the air
and described several circles before they fell at his side; seeing which,
Frick slipped out from underneath him and began to belabor Joel to his
heart's content. "You mustn't, Jane," howled Joel.

"Now will you come." he cried. "Say, hurry up, Joe, we're all waiting. Come
on!" His nose was quite bloody, and a dab here and there on his countenance
gave him anything but a pleasing expression.

"Ugh!" cried Jane, with a little shiver. "You boys get right straight up
from this floor, or I'll tell Mrs. Fisher."

Joel seized her apron string and howled:

"Jane, don't!"

"Yes, I will, too, Master Joel," declared Jane, twitching away the string;
"for such carryings on, I never see. Oh, here's Mr. King; now he'll take
care of you both," and she skipped upstairs, broom and all.

It was useless to try to slip away unperceived, for old Mr. King bore down
upon them along the hall in his stateliest fashion.

"Dear me! what have we here?" as both boys slunk down as small as possible.
"Why, Joel!"--it was impossible to convey greater astonishment in his
tone--"I thought you were steady at work."

"So I was," cried Joel, stung to the quick; and jumping to his feet, he
fairly beat the old gentleman's arm with two distressed little palms, "and
he made me come out. I said I would pound him, and I had to. Oh, Grandpapa,
I had to," and he pranced wildly around the tall, stately figure.

"Keep quiet, Joe," said the old gentleman, with a restraining hand; "and,
Frick, get up. Oh, dear me!"--as Frick obeyed, bringing his interesting
countenance to view, by no means improved by his efforts to wipe off the
smears. "What have you boys been about?"

"He wouldn't come out," said Frick, rubbing violently all over his round
cheeks, "and the boys sent me for him, and they're waiting now," he
finished, with a very injured air.

"Eh--oh! and so they sent you for Joel?" said the old gentleman, a light
breaking over his face.

"Yes, sir," said Frick, with a final polish to his countenance on the cuff
of his jacket sleeve, "and won't you please make Joel hurry up and come
out, sir? We've waited so long."

"And is that the way you respond to your invitations, my boy?" said
Grandpapa, with a grim smile. "I shouldn't think you'd receive many at this
rate. So you fell upon him because he asked you to go somewhere, eh?"--with
a keen glance into the black eyes.

"No, sir." said Joel, "but he wouldn't go away, and I told him if he
didn't, I'd come out and pound him. So I had to."

"Um--now let us see," said the old gentleman, reflecting a bit. "So you
kept on at the door, eh, Frick?"

"Yes, sir," said Frick, giving up his countenance as a bad job. "I had to,
'cause the boys are waiting, you see, sir. Won't you please make Joe hurry
up and come?"

"Well, now, Frick, I really believe you better go out and tell those boys
that when Joel gets ready to join them, he'll make his appearance.
Good-bye, Frick." Grandpapa waved him off sociably, and Frick, not exactly
understanding how, or why, found himself on the other side of the big front
door, in the midst of the waiting company from which he had been picked out
as messenger.

"I wouldn't make such a promise again, if I were you, Joel," observed old
Mr. King, gathering up the small, brown hand in one of his own; "it might
be a little awkward to keep it, you know. Now, then, here we are,"--turning
in at the writing-room. "Well, say no more, but fly at your task," and he
seated himself in the big chair before the writing-table and took up his
pen.

Thus left to himself, Joel went slowly over to the set of shelves in the
alcove, from which Frick's summons at the door had called him. There were
several volumes on the floor, and a blank book and some sheets of paper,
showing clearly Joe's favorite method of setting to work on making lists,
while sprawled on the carpet with all his paraphernalia around him. He
threw himself down amongst it all, prowled around for his pencil, which,
suddenly dropped when he had deserted his task, had taken the opportunity
to roll off by itself. Now it added to his discomfiture by hiding.

"Plague take it!" He scowled, a black little frown settling on his brow.
"Where is it?"--prowling around frantically on the carpet, with hasty
hands.

"What is it, Joe?" Old Mr. King, though apparently very busy over at the
writing-table, seemed to be quite well aware of everything that went on in
the alcove.

"I've lost my pencil," announced Joe, in a dismal voice.

"Oh, well, that's not so bad as it might be," said the old gentleman; "come
over and get another, and by and by you can find your own."

Joel advanced to the writing-table and put out a hand for the pencil, which
the old gentleman laid within it, but not before he had taken a good look
at the chubby face above it.

"So Frick and the boys wanted you, eh?" asked Grandpapa carelessly. "Going
somewhere, maybe?"

"Yes," said Joel, not looking up, "they are going to the pond."

"Oh, really?" said old Mr. King. "And you said no, eh, Joel?"

"Yes," said Joel.

"I suppose you didn't want to go, eh, Joel?" said the old gentleman
carelessly, and playing with his paper knife.

Joel's black eyes flew wide open, and he raised his head to stare into
Grandpapa's face.

"Oh, yes, I did, awfully."

"Then why didn't you go?" asked Grandpapa, just as carelessly, and giving
the paper knife an extra twirl or two.

Joel took his gaze off, to regard the pile of books over on the alcove
floor.

"Oh, your work?--is that it, Joel?" asked the old gentleman. "So you
thought you'd rather stay and finish your hour on it, eh, my boy?"

Joel squirmed uneasily. "I hadn't rather," he said at last, "but I'd got
to."

"Eh?" said old Mr. King.

"I said I'd work an hour and not stop," said Joel, as something seemed to
be required of him, the old gentleman waiting for him to finish.

"You mean you'd made the bargain to do this work and you couldn't back
out?" said Grandpapa.

Joel looked up and nodded quickly.

"Yes, sir."

"Oh, yes. Well, now, I mustn't hinder you from your work"--old Mr. King
turned briskly to his writing again--"or I shall be as bad as Frick--eh,
Joel?" and he laughed gayly. "Now trot back and go at your task again."

So Joel, fortified with his pencil, marched back to sit on the floor in the
alcove and take up his interrupted work, and Grandpapa's pen went
scratching busily over the paper, and nothing else was heard except the
buzzing of a big fly outside the window, venting his vexation at his
inability to get in.

Meanwhile Frick and the knot of boys had drawn off in astonishment and
dismay at the failure of their plan to get Joel Pepper into the delightful
expedition.

"What was he doing?" demanded more than one boy.

"I don't know," said Frick; "I couldn't get in."

"Oh, now I know; he's got some secret," said Larry Keep, and he whirled
around in vexation and snapped his fingers.

"Maybe it's a flying-machine," suggested another boy.

"Phoo! he couldn't make that in his grandfather's writing-room," said
Larry, in derision, yet he looked anxious. Suppose Joel Pepper were really
busy over such a splendid thing as that and hadn't told him. "Guess
something else."

"I can't think what it is," said Frick, sitting down on the curbstone to
become lost in thought--an example to be speedily followed by all the boys,
till finally there was a dismal row of them, without a thought remaining of
having the expedition on the pond, since Joel Pepper wouldn't come with
them.


XV

UP IN ALEXIA'S PRETTY ROOM


Polly was having a bad half-hour with herself, despite all the attractions
up in Alexia's pretty room.

"It's no use," she cried, throwing down the little brush with which she was
whisking off the dainty bureau-cover. The girls were "setting up" the
various adornments that were plentifully strewn about, an occupation that
Polly dearly loved, and that Alexia as dearly hated. "I must go home."

Alexia, down on her knees, with her head in the closet, grumbling over the
shoe bag, whose contents were in a chronic state of overflow, pulled it out
suddenly.

"Why, Polly Pepper!" she exclaimed, in an injured tone. One eye was draped
by a cobweb, gained by diving into the closet's extreme corner after a
missing slipper, gone for some weeks; and in other ways Alexia's face
presented a very unprepossessing appearance. "You said you'd help me with
my room this morning."

"Oh, yes, I know," said Polly hurriedly, and running over to Alexia; "but
you'll let me off, won't you?--for I've something on my mind. Oh, dear me!"

Alexia hopped up to her feet, the slipper flying off at a tangent, and ran
all around Polly Pepper, gazing at her anxiously.

"I don't see anything. Oh, what is it?" she cried.

"You see, the boys wanted to find Joel, and I--" began Polly, twisting her
fingers.

"Bother the boys!" exclaimed Alexia, interrupting. "Is that all? They are
everlastingly wanting to find Joel. Well"--with a sigh of relief--"we can
go back to work again. Why, I must say, Polly, you scared me 'most to
death. Oh, dear me! I wish I had let Norah sweep this old closet when she
does the room. It's dirty as can be. If Aunt knew it--" The rest of it was
lost, as Alexia was down on her knees again, her head back in the closet,
with the hope of unearthing more slippers and shoes.

"Alexia, do come out," cried Polly, pulling her gown smartly; "I must speak
to you."

"Can't," said Alexia, rummaging away. "There, I've gone and knocked down my
blue silk waist! Do pick it up, Polly; it 'll get all dirt, and then won't
Aunt scold!"

As if to make matters worse, a voice out in the hall was heard:

"_Alexia?_"

"Misery me!" cried Alexia, scuffling out backward from the closet, the blue
silk waist on her head where it had fallen, and in her sudden exit nearly
overthrowing Polly Pepper. "Here comes Aunt. Shut the door, Polly--shut
it"--scrambling with both hands to get the waist off, while a hook caught
in her light, fluffy hair. And Miss Rhys being too near the door for any
such protection as Alexia suggested, in she walked.

"What in the world!" She lifted both hands. "Alexia Rhys, is it possible! I
concluded not to go down-town, and came back, and to think of this--playing
with your best silk waist!"

"I'm not playing," declared Alexia, in a sharp key, tossing back from her
head as much of the waist as she could, "and it hurts awfully"--twitching
angrily at the hook.

Polly sprang to her assistance.

"Wait a minute, and I'll get you out," she said.

"And I won't wait," cried Alexia loudly; "it's bad enough to be hooked to
death with a horrid old ugly waist, without being scolded to pieces by your
aunt."

"Oh, Alexia!" exclaimed Miss Rhys, "to call that beautiful waist an ugly
thing!"

"And I'll pull every spear of hair out of my head, but I'll get the thing
off. Ow!"--as she began to put her threat into execution.

"Do be still, Alexia," begged Polly, trying to push aside the nervous
fingers.

"I won't be still," cried Alexia, casting up a pale eye full of wrath on
the side next to Polly, and giving another twitch. "I guess if you'd been
hooked up by a horrible old thing, and your aunt came in and scolded you
terribly, you wouldn't wait. Ow! Oh, dear me!"

"Then," said Polly, standing quite still, "since you won't let me help you,
I'm going home, Alexia."

"Oh, don't," cried Alexia, and she dropped her hands to her side in a
flash, the blue silk waist dangling to her head by its hook. "I'll let you
help whatever you want to, Polly," she mumbled meekly.

So Polly set to work, Miss Rhys slipping out of the room. Although Alexia's
nervous fingers were now not in the way, still, it wasn't easy to
disentangle the hook from the thick, fluffy hair, wound in as it was.

"You've tangled it all up," said Polly, bending over it with flushed face,
her fingers working busily, "and it's all in a snarl. Dear me! do I hurt?"

"No, never mind," said Alexia; "'tisn't any matter. Don't go home, Polly."
She held her fast by the gown.

"No, of course not," said Polly; "at least not until I get this hook out of
your hair. There--oh, dear me! I thought it was quite free. Well, anyway,
now it is!" She held up the blue silk waist with a triumphant little
flourish, over her own head. "It must be awful to have something fastened
to you like that," she said, sympathetically, as she placed the waist on
the bed with a sigh of relief.

"Well, I guess you'd think so," assented Alexia decidedly; "it's too
perfectly awful for anything. It pulls like a big vulture with his talons
holding your hair." She hopped to her feet and shook herself in delight,
her long, light braids flying out gayly. "Well, I am glad that Aunt has
gone"--looking around the room, and drawing a long breath.

Polly Pepper stood quite still over by the bed.

"Well--heigh-ho--come on," cried Alexia, dancing over to seize her arm;
"let's have a spin." But Polly didn't move.

"Come on, Polly," cried Alexia, with another tug at her arm.

"No," said Polly, "I can't, Alexia."

"What in the world is the matter?" cried Alexia, dropping her arm to stare
at her.

"I think your aunt--" began Polly.

"Oh, Aunt!" interrupted Alexia impatiently. "You're always talking about
her, Polly Pepper, and she's everlastingly picking at me, so I have a
perfectly dreadful time, between you two."

"Well, she is your aunt," said Polly, not offering to stir.

"I can't help it." Alexia, for the want of something better to do, ran over
and twitched the table cover straight. "And I know she's my aunt, but she
needn't pick at me all the time," she added defiantly. She looked
uncomfortable all the same, and ran about here and there trying to get
things in their places, but knocking down more than were tidied up. "Why
don't you say something?" she cried impatiently, whirling around.

"Because I've nothing to say," replied Polly, not moving.

"Oh, dear me!" Alexia sent her long arms out with a despairing gesture. "I
suppose I've just got to go and tell Aunt I'm sorry." She drew a long
breath. "But I hadn't been playing; I was tired to death over that dirty
old closet and that tiresome shoe bag, and my hair all hooked up. Well, do
come on." She ran over and held out her hand. "Come with me," she begged.

So Polly put her hand in Alexia's, and together they ran out into the hall,
to the maiden aunt's room.

"It's perfectly dreadful to board," said Alexia, on the way. "I wouldn't
care how little the house was, if Aunt and I could only have one," and she
gave a great sigh.

Polly turned suddenly and gave her a big hug.

"Mamsie says you are to come over to our house just as often as possible.
So does Grandpapa," she cried hastily; "you know that, Alexia."

"Yes, I know," said Alexia, but she was highly gratified at every
repetition of the invitation. "Well, oh, dear me!"--as they stood before
Miss Rhys' door.

That lady sat in her bay window, her fingers busy with her embroidery, and
her mind completely filled with plans for another piece when that
particular one should be completed.

"I'm sorry, Aunt," said Alexia, plunging up to the chair and keeping tight
hold of Polly Pepper's hand.

"Oh!" said Miss Rhys, looking up. "Why, how your hair does look, Alexia!"

Up flew Alexia's other hand to her head.

"Well, it's been all hooked up," she said.

"And I'll brush it for you," said Polly, at her shoulder.

"That'll be fine," cried Alexia, with a comfortable wriggle of her long
figure. "Oh, I'm sorry, Aunt."

"Very well," said Miss Rhys, turning back to her embroidery again. "And,
Alexia, your room looks very badly. I'm astonished that you are so untidy,
when I talk to you about it so much."

"Well, Polly is helping me fix it up," said Alexia, drawing off and pulling
Polly along.

"Now, you see, Polly"--as the two girls were safe once more in the little
room, this time with the door shut--"I only got some more pickings by going
to Aunt."

"Hush," said Polly, "she will hear you.'

"How is she going to hear with the door shut, pray tell?" cried Alexia,
with a giggle. "Well, it's over with now. Let's fly at this horrid old
room. Dear me!"--as she ran by the window--"do just see those dreadful
boys."

At the word "boys" Polly ran too, and peeped over her shoulder.

"Oh, I must speak to Frick," and without more warning, she raced out of the
room, and down the front stairs.

"Polly, Polly Pepper!" But Polly being out in the street and nearly up to
the knot of boys, Alexia gave up calling and speedily ran after her, to
hear her say:

"Oh, Frick, I'll go and try to find Joel for you."

Frick disentangled himself from the group.

"I found Joel myself," he said, "and he wouldn't come."

"Wouldn't come where?" demanded Alexia breathlessly, plunging up.

"Out on the pond." It was Larry Keep who answered.

"And so we've given it all up," said another boy, very dismally.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Alexia, "how tiresome of Joel!"

"Oh, no, no," protested Polly, shaking her head. "I know Joel couldn't go,
or else he would. You know that, boys," she said, looking anxiously at them
all.

"He's always been before," said Larry, in a dudgeon, "and I don't see what
makes him act so now."

"Well, you haven't any right to abuse him, just because he doesn't want to
go out with you on the pond," said Alexia warmly, veering round at the
first word of blame of Joel from anybody else. "That's a great way to do, I
must say."

"And, boys, you know Joel would have gone if he could, don't you?" said
Polly again, the little anxious pucker deepening on her forehead.

"Ye--es," said Larry slowly, digging the toe of his tennis shoe into the
ground, as no one else said anything.

"Oh, he would, he would," said Polly, clasping her hands tightly together,
the color flying over her cheek. "Something must have happened to keep him
back"--as the boys, having nothing more to say, moved off. "Alexia, now I
_must_ go home, for I'm afraid--" of what, she didn't say.

"I'll go, too," said Alexia, springing after her, wild to find out what the
matter could be with Joel Pepper, to keep him from one of his favorite
sports on the pond.

"There isn't anything the matter with him," shouted back Frick, over his
shoulder, who had caught Polly's last words. "And he could have gone as
easy as not; he was in Mr. King's writing-room with the door locked."

"Grandpapa's writing-room, with the door locked!" repeated Polly, turning
around in a puzzled way. "Why--I don't see--oh!" Then she gave such a
squeal that Alexia hopped across the road in astonishment. "I know now.
Dear, splendid, old Joel! Boys!" She was up by them again, and talking so
fast that nobody understood for a moment or two what the whole thing was
about.

"For pity's sake, Polly Pepper!" Alexia was shaking her arm, the boys
crowding around Polly and hanging on every word.

"Don't you understand? Oh, how stupid I've been not to think of it
before!--though I didn't know he was to begin this very morning," cried
Polly, hurrying on, all in a glow. "Grandpapa has engaged Joel to do some
work for him on his books"--Polly didn't think she ought to explain any
further about the ten-dollar note--"and so Joel thought he couldn't stop
till the hour was up, and----"

"Has he got to work an hour on 'em at a time?" interrupted Larry in
amazement, pushing his way nearer to Polly.

"Yes," said Polly, turning her rosy face on him, so glad that she was
really making them see that Joel couldn't go with them when he was asked,
"he must work a whole hour at a time on them, so you see he really had to
stay back." But this part was lost on the whole group.

"Hi--hi!" they shouted, and Larry flung up his cap. "Well, if that's so,
we'll go back and get him now; the hour must be up," and off they raced,
flinging up a cloud of dust from their heels.

"Whew!" exclaimed Alexia. "Did you ever see such perfectly dreadful boys to
kick up such a dust? Oh, dear me, Polly Pepper. Ker-choo!"

When she came out of her sneezing fit, Polly was saying again:

"Oh, how perfectly stupid I am, Alexia!"

But her eyes shone, for it was now all right for Joel with the boys.


XVI

THE ACCIDENT


But the boys didn't get back after Joel--not just then. A big tallyho
coach, in swinging around a corner, bore down upon the struggling crowd,
the driver halloing and the horn blowing lustily, by way of a signal to
clear the road. This would have been all well enough and easy to avoid, if
a string of bicyclists had not selected that very identical moment to
appear from the opposite direction. And Larry, whose uncle was in the
last-mentioned procession, having a laudable desire to see him and make his
relation aware of the fact, turned, waved his cap and his arms with a, "Hi,
there, Uncle Jack!" and in another second was under the big wheels, the
whole merry party going over him and the laughter and chat still filling
the air.

Miss Mary Taylor, having an outside seat, looked over quickly. Hamilton
Dyce, sitting next, clambered down.

"Don't be frightened," he said into her pale face.

Half a dozen men were on the ground with him, and the boys swarmed around
wildly, getting in everybody's way. The bicyclists, not catching the idea
of any accident, were swiftly coasting down the hill, for after all their
leader had suddenly changed his mind and veered off just before reaching
the scene of the accident.

"Help me down," said Miss Taylor hoarsely.

"Ugh, don't!" said Beth Cameron, with a shiver, poking her parasol well
down over her eyes. "I wouldn't see it for all the world"--shivering.

"You can't do any good; better not," said Mr. Dyce, looking up at Miss
Taylor.

But Miss Mary continued to say, "Help me down," and she so evidently
displayed the intention of getting down without any assistance if it
weren't forthcoming, that Mr. Dyce did as he was bidden, and she was on the
spot by the time that Larry was drawn out from under the wheels and laid on
the roadside grass.

"I'm afraid he's done for, poor beggar," said one of the men.

Mr. Dyce turned Miss Mary completely around and marched her off to the
middle of the road before she knew that such summary treatment was to be
accorded her. Then she caught her breath.

"You needn't think to save me," she said, with a little gasp: "I'm--I'm
quite strong. I must go. Oh, don't stop me. Think of poor Mrs. Keep!" and
she was back in among the group of men and the frantic boys. "Send for
Doctor Fisher," she cried, kneeling down by Larry's side.

"No use--" began another man, but Hamilton Dyce cried, "Which one can run
the fastest for Doctor Fisher?"

Little Porter Knapp could, there was no doubt of that. All arms and legs
was he, and able to get over more ground a minute than any other boy of
their set, not excepting Joel Pepper. So, before Mr. Dyce had finished
speaking, he was off like a shot, leaving Miss Taylor sitting on the grass
holding Larry's poor head, while the whole crowd of men revolved around
her, nervous to do something, but not seeing their way clear to find out
what would be expedient.

"If those chaps would stop howling!" exclaimed one of the men, in
desperation, stalking off a bit to cram his hands in his pocket, and
ejaculate this to a companion.

"It's pretty hard on the kids," remarked the friend, with a glance over his
shoulder at Frick and the rest of the boys, who added to the misery by
crowding up to the scene and impeding the progress of all would-be helpers.

"He's dead, it's easy to see," observed the first man, nodding over to the
group.

"That's a fact, it looks like it," nodded the friend. "Well, it's a bad
thing, but no one's at fault. Mac couldn't help it. The little beggar ran
right under the horses."

"Oh, Mac's not to blame," said the first speaker hastily, "but it's an
awful calamity just the same, to run down a kid. Well, we must pacify the
ladies." So the two walked back and up to the side of the coach, when the
big hats under the parasols leaned over and allowed their fair owners to be
diverted with all sorts of comforting things. Tylor proceeds to prove this
by examples from Greenland, and the Algonkins. He instances the
Massachusett God, Kiehtan, who created the other gods, and receives
the just into heaven.

This was recorded in 1622, but the belief, says Winslow, our
authority, goes back into the unknown past.

"They never saw Kiehtan, but THEY HOLD IT A GREAT CHARGE AND DUTY THAT
ONE AGE TEACH ANOTHER." How could a deity thus rooted in a traditional
past be borrowed from recent English settlers?

In these cases the hypothesis of borrowing breaks down, and still more
does it break down over the Algonkin deity Atahocan.

Father Le Jeune, S.J., went first among the Algonkins, a missionary
pioneer, in 1633, and suffered unspeakable things in his courageous
endeavour to win souls in a most recalcitrant flock.

He writes (1633): "As this savage has given me occasion to speak of their
god, I will remark that it is a great error to think that the
savages have no knowledge of any deity.

I was surprised to hear this in France.

I do not know their secrets, but, from the little which I am about to tell,
it will be seen that they have such knowledge.

"They say that one exists whom they call Atahocan, who made the
whole.

Speaking of God in a wigwam one day, they asked me 'what is God?' I told
them that it was He who made all things, Heaven and Earth. They then
began to cry out to each other, 'Atahocan!
Atahocan! it is Atahocan!'"

There could be no better evidence that Atahocan was NOT (as is often said)
"borrowed from the Jesuits". The Jesuits had only just arrived.

Later (1634) Le Jeune interrogated an old man and a partly Europeanised
sorcerer. They replied that nothing was certain; that Atahocan was only
spoken of as "of a thing so remote," that assurance was impossible.

"In fact, their word Nitatohokan means, 'I fable, I tell an old story'."

Thus Atahocan, though at once recognised as identical with the
Creator of the missionary, was so far from being the latest thing
in religious evolution that he had passed into a proverb for the
ancient and the fabulous.

This, of course, is inconsistent with RECENT borrowing. He was neglected for
Khichikouai, spirits which inspire seers, and are of some practical use,
receiving rewards in offerings of grease, says Le Jeune.[1]

[1] Relations, 1633, 1634.

The obsolescent Atahocan seems to have had no moral activity. But, in
America, this indolence of God is not universal. Mr. Parkman indeed writes:
"In the primitive Indian's conception of a God, the idea of moral
good has no part".[1] But this is definitely contradicted by Heriot,
Strachey, Winslow, already cited, and by Pere Le Jeune.

The good attributes of Kiehtan and Ahone were not borrowed from Christianity,
were matter of Indian belief before the English arrived. Mr.

Parkman writes: "The moment the Indians began to contemplate the object of
his faith, and sought to clothe it with attributes, it became
finite, and commonly ridiculous".

It did so, as usual, in MYTHOLOGY, but not in RELIGION. There is nothing
ridiculous in what is known of Ahone and Kiehtan. If they had a
mythology, and if we knew the myths, doubtless they would be
ridiculous enough.

The savage mind, turned from belief and awe into the spinning of yarns,
instantly yields to humorous fancy.

As we know, mediaeval popular Christianity, in imagery, marchen or
tales, and art, copiously illustrates the same mental phenomenon.

Saints, God, our Lord, and the Virgin, all play ludicrous and immoral
parts in Christian folk-tales.

This is Mythology, and here is, beyond all cavil, a late corruption of
Religion. Here, where we know the history of a creed, Religion is early,
and these myths are late. Other examples of American divine ideas might
be given, such as the extraordinary hymns in which the Zunis address
the Eternal, Ahonawilona.

But as the Zuni religion has only been studied in recent years, the hymns
would be dismissed as "borrowed," though there is nothing Catholic
or Christian about them.

We have preferred to select examples where borrowing from Christianity is
out of the question.

The current anthropological theory is thus confronted with American examples
of ideas of the divine which cannot have been borrowed, while, if the gods
are said to have been evolved out of ghosts, we reply that, in
some cases, they receive no sacrifice, sacrifice being usually a
note of ghostly descent.

Again, similar gods, as we show, exist where ghosts of chiefs are not
worshipped, and as far as evidence goes never were worshipped,
because there is no evidence of the existence at any time of such
chiefs.

The American highest gods may then be equally free from the taint of
ghostly descent.

[1] Parkman, The Jesuits in North America. p. lxxviii.

There is another more or less moral North American deity whose
evolution is rather questionable.

Pere Brebeuf (1636), speaking of the Hurons, says that "they have
recourse to Heaven in almost all their necessities, . . . and I may
say that it is, in fact, God whom they blindly adore, for they
imagine that there is an Oki, that is, a demon, in heaven, who
regulates the seasons, bridles the winds and the waves of the sea,
and helps them in every need.

They dread his wrath, and appeal to him as witness to the inviolability
of their faith, when they make a promise or treaty of peace with enemies.
'Heaven hear us to-day' is their form of adjuration

."[1]

[1] Relations, 1636, pp. 106, 107.

A spiritual being, whose home is heaven, who rides on the winds, whose wrath
is dreaded, who sanctions the oath, is only called "a demon" by the
prejudice of the worthy father who, at the same time, admits that
the savages have a conception of God--and that God, so conceived,
is this demon!

The debatable question is, was the "demon," or the actual expanse of sky,
first in evolution? That cannot precisely be settled, but in the analogous
Chinese case of China we find heaven (Tien) and "Shang-ti, the
personal ruling Deity," corresponding to the Huron "demon".

Shang-ti, the personal deity, occurs most in the oldest, pre-Confucian
sacred documents, and, so far, appears to be the earlier conception.

The "demon" in Huron faith may also be earlier than the religious regard
paid to his home, the sky.[1] The unborrowed antiquity of a belief in a
divine being, creative and sometimes moral, in North America, is thus
demonstrated. So far I had written when I accidentally fell in
with Mr.

Tylor's essay on "The Limits of Savage Religion".[2] In that essay, rather
to my surprise, Mr.

Tylor argues for the borrowing of "The Great Spirit," "The Great
Manitou," from the Jesuits.

Now, as to the phrase, "Great Spirit," the Jesuits doubtless caused its
promulgation, and, where their teaching penetrated, shreds of their doctrine
may have adhered to the Indian conception of that divine being.

But Mr.
Tylor in his essay does not allude to the early evidence, his own, for
Oki, Atahocan, Kiehtan, and Torngursak, all undeniably prior to
Jesuit influence, and found where Jesuits, later, did not go.

As Mr. Tylor offers no reason for disregarding evidence in 1892 which he
had republished in a new edition of Primitive Culture in 1891, it is
impossible to argue against him in this place. He went on, in the essay cited
(1892) to contend that the Australian god of the Kamilaroi of
Victoria, Baiame, is, in name and attributes, of missionary
introduction.

Happily this hypothesis can be refuted, as we show in the following chapter
on Australian gods.

[1] See Tylor, Prim. Cult., ii. 362, and Making of Religion, p.
318; also Menzies, History of Religion, pp. 108,109, and Dr.

Legge's Chinese Classics, in Sacred Books of the East, vols. iii., xxvii.,
xxviii.

[2] Journ. of Anthrop.

Inst., vol. xxi., 1892.

It would be easy enough to meet the hypothesis of borrowing in the case of
the many African tribes who possess something approaching to a rude
monotheistic conception. Among these are the Dinkas of the Upper Nile,
with their neighbours, whose creed Russegger compares to that of
modern Deists in Europe.

The Dinka god, Dendid, is omnipotent, but so benevolent that he is not
addressed in prayer, nor propitiated by sacrifice. Compare the supreme
being of the Caribs, beneficent, otiose, unadored.[1] A similar
deity, veiled in the instruction of the as yet unpenetrated Mysteries,
exists among the Yao of Central Africa.[2] Of the negro race, Waitz
says, "even if we do not call them monotheists, we may still think
of them as standing on the boundary of monotheism despite their
innumerable rude superstitions".[3] The Tshi speaking people of the
Gold Coast have their unworshipped Nyankupon, a now otiose unadored
being, with a magisterial deputy, worshipped with many sacrifices.

The case is almost an exact parallel to that of Ahone and Oki in America.
THESE were not borrowed, and the author has argued at length against Major
Ellis's theory of the borrowing from Christians of Nyankupon.[4]

[1] Rochefort, Les Isles Antilles, p. 415. Tylor, ii. 337.

[2] Macdonald, Africana, 1, 71, 72, 130, 279-301. Scott, Dictionary of the
Manganja Language, Making of Religion, pp. 230- 238.

A contradictory view in Spencer, Ecclesiastical Institutions, p. 681.

[3] Anthropologie, ii. 167.

[4] Making of Religion, pp. 243-250.

To conclude this chapter, the study of savage and barbaric religions seems
to yield the following facts:--
1. Low savages. No regular chiefs. Great beings, not in receipt of
sacrifice, sanctioning morality. Ghosts are not worshipped, though believed
in. Polytheism, departmental gods and gods of heaven, earth, sky and so
forth, have not been developed or are not found.

2.

Barbaric races. Aristocratic or monarchic. Ghosts are worshipped and receive
sacrifice. Polytheistic gods are in renown and receive sacrifice. There
is usually a supreme Maker who is, in some cases, moral, in others otiose.
In only one or two known cases (as in that of the Polynesian Taaroa) is
he in receipt of sacrifice.

3.

Barbaric races. (Zulus, monarchic with Unkulunkulu; some Algonquins (feebly
aristocratic) with Atahocan). Religion is mainly ancestor worship or vague
spirit worship; ghosts are propitiated with food. There are traces of an
original divine being whose name is becoming obsolescent and a matter
of jest.

4. Early civilisations. Monarchic or aristocratic. (Greece, Egypt, India,
Peru, Mexico.) Polytheism. One god tends to be supreme. Religiously
regarded, gods are moral; in myth are the reverse. Gods are in receipt
of sacrifice. Heavenly society is modelled on that of men, monarchic
or aristocratic. Philosophic thought tends towards belief in one
pure god, who may be named Zeus, in Greece.

5.

The religion of Israel. Probably a revival and purification of the old
conception of a moral, beneficent creator, whose creed had been involved
in sacrifice and anthropomorphic myth.

In all the stages thus roughly sketched, myths of the lowest sort prevail,
except in the records of the last stage, where the documents have been
edited by earnest monotheists.

If this theory be approximately correct, man's earliest religious ideas
may very well have consisted, in a sense, of dependence on a supreme
moral being who, when attempts were made by savages to describe the
modus of his working, became involved in the fancies of mythology.

How this belief in such a being arose we have no evidence to prove.

We make no hint at a sensus numinis, or direct revelation.

While offering no hypothesis of the origin of belief in a moral creator
we may present a suggestion. Mr.

Darwin says about early man: "The same high mental faculties which first
led man to believe in unseen spiritual agencies, then in fetichism, polytheism
and ultimately monotheism, would infallibly lead him, so long as his
reasoning powers remained poorly developed, to various strange
superstitions and customs".[1] Now, accepting Mr.

Darwin's theory that early man had "high mental faculties," the conception
of a Maker of things does not seem beyond his grasp. Man himself made
plenty of things, and could probably conceive of a being who made the world
and the objects in it. "Certainly there must be some Being who made all
these things.

He must be very good too," said an Eskimo to a missionary.[2] The goodness
is inferred by the Eskimo from his own contentment with "the things which
are made".[3]

[1] Darwin, Descent of Man, i. p. 66.

[2] Cranz, i. 199.

[3] Romans, i. 19.

Another example of barbaric man "seeking after God" may be adduced.

What the Greenlander said is corroborated by what a Kaffir said.

Kaffir religion is mainly animistic, ancestral spirits receive food and
sacrifice--there is but an evanescent tradition of a "Lord in Heaven".
Thus a very respectable Kaffir said to M.

Arbrousset, "your tidings (Christianity) are what I want; and I was
seeking before I knew you. . . . I asked myself sorrowful questions. 'Who
has touched the stars with his hands? . . . Who makes the waters flow?
. . . Who can have given earth the wisdom and power to produce
corn?' Then I buried my face in my hands."
"This," says Sir John Lubbock, "was, however, an exceptional case.
As a general rule savages do not set themselves to think out such questions."[1]

[1] Origin of Civilisation, p. 201.

As a common fact, if savages never ask the question, at all events, somehow,
they have the answer ready made. "Mangarrah, or Baiame, Puluga, or Dendid,
or Ahone, or Ahonawilona, or Atahocan, or Taaroa, or Tui Laga, was
the maker."

Therefore savages who know that leave the question alone, or add mythical
accretions. But their ancestors must have asked the question, like the
"very respectable Kaffir" before they answered it.

Having reached the idea of a Creator, it was not difficult to add that he
was "good," or beneficent, and was deathless.

A notion of a good powerful Maker, not subject to death because
necessarily prior to Death (who only invaded the world late), seems
easier of attainment than the notion of Spirit which, ex hypothesi,
demands much delicate psychological study and hard thought.

The idea of a Good Maker, once reached, becomes, perhaps, the germ of future
theism, but, as Mr.

Darwin says, the human mind was "infallibly led to various strange
superstitions". As St. Paul says, in perfect agreement with Mr. Darwin on
this point, "they became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart
was darkened".

Among other imaginations (right or wrong) was the belief in spirits, with
all that followed in the way of instituting sacrifices, even of human beings,
and of dropping morality, about which the ghost of a deceased
medicine-man was not likely to be much interested.

The supposed nearness to man, and the venal and partial character
of worshipped gods and ghost-gods, would inevitably win for them
more service and attention than would be paid to a Maker remote,
unbought and impartial.

Hence the conception of such a Being would tend to obsolescence, as we see
that it does, and would be most obscured where ghosts were most propitiated,
as among the Zulus. Later philosophy would attach the spiritual conception
to the revived or newly discovered idea of the supreme God.

In all this speculation there is nothing mystical; no supernatural or
supernormal interference is postulated.

Supernormal experiences may have helped to originate or support the belief
in spirits, that, however, is another question. But this hypothesis of the
origin of belief in a good unceasing Maker of things is, of course, confessedly
a conjecture, for which historical evidence cannot be given, in the nature
of the case. All our attempts to discover origins far behind history
must be conjectural.

Their value must be estimated by the extent to which this or that hypothesis
colligates the facts. Now our hypothesis does colligate the facts.

It shows how belief in a moral supreme being might arise before ghosts were
worshipped, and it accounts for the flaw in the religious strata,
for the mythical accretions, for the otiose Creator in the background
of many barbaric religions, and for the almost universal absence
of sacrifice to the God relatively supreme.

He was, from his earliest conception, in no need of gifts from men.

On this matter of otiose supreme gods, Professor Menzies writes,
"It is very common to find in savage beliefs a vague far-off god,
who is at the back of all the others, takes little part in the
management of things, and receives little worship.

But it is impossible to judge what that being was at an earlier time; he may
have been a nature god, or a spirit who has by degrees grown faint,
and come to occupy this position."

Now the position which he occupies is usually, if not universally, that
of the Creator.

He could not arrive at this rank by "becoming faint," nor could "a nature-god"
be the Maker of Nature. The only way by which we can discover "what that
being was at an earlier time" is to see what he IS at an earlier
time, that is to say, what the conception of him is, among men in
an earlier state of culture.

Among them, as we show, he is very much more near, potent and moral, than
among races more advanced in social evolution and material culture. We can
form no opinion as to the nature of such "vague, far-off gods, at the
back of all the others," till we collect and compare examples, and
endeavour to ascertain what points they have in common, and in what
points they differ from each other.

It then becomes plain that they are least far away, and most potent, where
there is least ghostly and polytheistic competition, that is, among
the most backward races.

The more animism the less theism, is the general rule. Manifestly the
current hypothesis--that all religion is animistic in origin--does
not account for these facts, and is obliged to fly to an undemonstrated
theory of degradation, or to an undemonstrated theory of borrowing.

That our theory is inconsistent with the general doctrine of evolution we
cannot admit, if we are allowed to agree with Mr.

Darwin's statement about the high mental faculties which first led man
to sympathetic, and then to wild beliefs. We do not pretend to be more
Darwinian than Mr. Darwin, who compares "these miserable and indirect
results of our higher faculties" to "the occasional mistakes of the instincts
of the lower animals".

The opinion here maintained, namely, that a germ of pure belief may be
detected amidst the confusion of low savage faith, and that in a still
earlier stage it may have been less overlaid with fable, is in
direct contradiction to current theories.

It is also in contradiction with the opinions entertained by myself before
I made an independent examination of the evidence. Like others, I was
inclined to regard reports of a moral Creator, who observes conduct,
and judges it even in the next life, as rumours due either to
Christian influence, or to mistake.

I well know, however, and could, and did, discount the sources of error. I
was on my guard against the twin fallacies of describing all savage
religion as "devil worship," and of expecting to find a primitive
"divine tradition".

I was also on my guard against the modern bias derived from the
"ghost-theory," and Mr.

Spencer's works, and I kept an eye on opportunities of "borrowing".[1] I had,
in fact, classified all known idola in the first edition of this work,
such as the fallacy of leading questions and the chance of deliberate
deception. I sought the earliest evidence, prior to any missionary
teaching, and the evidence of what the first missionaries found,
in the way of belief, on their arrival.

I preferred the testimony of the best educated observers, and of those
most familiar with native languages. I sought for evidence in native
hymns (Maori, Zuni, Dinka, Red Indian) and in native ceremonial
and mystery, as these sources were least likely to be contaminated

.

[1] Making of Religion, p. 187.

On the other side, I found a vast body of testimony that savages
had no religion at all.

But that testimony, en masse, was refuted by Roskoff, and also, in places,
by Tylor. When three witnesses were brought to swear that they saw the
Irishman commit a crime, he offered to bring a dozen witnesses who
did NOT see him.

Negative evidence of squatters, sailors and colonists, who did NOT see any
religion among this or that race, is not worth much against evidence
of trained observers and linguists who DID find what the others
missed, and who found more the more they knew the tribe in question.

Again, like others, I thought savages incapable of such relatively pure
ideas as I now believe some of them to possess.
But I could not resist the evidence, and I abandoned my a priori
notions.

The evidence forcibly attests gradations in the central belief.

It is found in various shades, from relative potency down to a vanishing
trace, and it is found in significant proportion to the prevalence
of animistic ideas, being weakest where they are most developed,
strongest where they are least developed. There must be a reason for these
phenomena, and that reason, as it seems to me, is the overlaying
and supersession of a rudely Theistic by an animistic creed.

That one cause would explain, and does colligate, all the facts.

There remains a point on which misconception proves to be possible.

It will be shown, contrary to the current hypothesis, that the religion
of the lowest races, in its highest form, sanctions morality.

That morality, again, in certain instances, demands unselfishness. Of course
we are not claiming for that doctrine any supernatural origin.

Religion, if it sanctions ethics at all, will sanction those which the
conscience accepts, and those ethics, in one way or other, must have been
evolved.

That the "cosmical" law is "the weakest must go to the wall" is generally
conceded. Man, however, is found trying to reverse the law, by equal and
friendly dealing (at least within what is vaguely called "the tribe"). His
religion, as in Australia, will be shown to insist on this
unselfishness.

How did he evolve his ethics?

"Be it little or be it much they get," says Dampier about the
Australians in 1688, "every one has his part, as well the young and
tender as the old and feeble, who are not able to get abroad as the
strong and lusty."

This conduct reverses the cosmical process, and notoriously civilised
society, Christian society, does not act on these principles.

Neither do the savages, who knock the old and feeble on the head, or deliberately
leave them to starve, act on these principles, sanctioned by
Australian religion, but (according to Mr.

Dawson) NOT carried out in Australian practice. "When old people become
infirm . . . it is lawful and customary to kill them."[1]

[1] Australian Aborigines, p. 62.

As to the point of unselfishness, evolutionists are apt to account for it by
common interest.

A tribe in which the strongest monopolise what is best will not survive
so well as an unselfish tribe in the struggle for existence. But precisely
the opposite is true, aristocracy marks the more successful barbaric
races, and an aristocratic slave-holding tribe could have swept
Australia as the Zulus swept South Africa.

That aristocracy and acquisition of separate property are steps in
advance on communistic savagery all history declares.

So
Gibson went back to her mistress' room, and Mary put her arm around
Eleanor, and patted her hair as she cuddled up to her neck.

"Mary, I like you so much," sobbed Eleanor, in a muffled voice, "because
you don't try to say something to comfort me."

Mary kept on patting the pretty hair, with anxious ears for the messenger
to come from the Keep household. Presently out came Gibson again.

"I'm going out to bring in those boys," she said; "Mistress wants it."

"What boys?" asked Mary quickly.

"The whole of them," said Gibson; "they've been hanging around ever since
Master Larry was brought home, and----"

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Eleanor faintly.

"And Mrs. Sterling wants them invited in here to wait?" exclaimed Mary.
"How kind of her! Now, then, Nell, that's work for you and for me: we must
help those boys to get a little comfort"--as Gibson went quickly down the
long stairs on her errand.

"Oh, I can't," cried Eleanor, burrowing into the soft neck.

"Yes, you can."

"I'm his sister. And you can't expect me to see them."

"Yes, I do," said Mary firmly; "it's exactly what you ought to do. I'm
going down to welcome them, and you must come too. Come on, Eleanor; we've
simply got to do it."

Eleanor, seeing nothing for it unless she were to be left alone on her
stair, which would have been the last thing to be endured, got up and
followed slowly, to be met at the big door leading to the side porch by the
company of gloomy-faced boys.

"Well boys," said Mary cheerfully, "I'm glad you've come to help Eleanor
and me."

Every boy looked up in great surprise, for they all supposed they were left
to comfort themselves.

"Can't we sit in the dining-room?" asked Mary, with a thought for the
cheerful red carpet and curtains.

"Mistress wants them to come up into her sitting-room," said Gibson.

"Her sitting-room!" exclaimed Mary.

"Yes, Miss. She says they can help Mrs. Keep and her," said Gibson,
standing with folded hands deferentially, but yet quite expecting the
command to be carried out.

The boys stood up a little taller yet. Evidently they were thought worthy
of consideration in the way of administering consolation instead of hanging
around, useless creatures in everybody's way.

"In that case," said Mary Taylor, "we'll all go upstairs at once."

So they all filed up the long flight, and Gibson held open the door, and
Mrs. Sterling from her sofa called out, "Boys, yon don't know how glad I am
to see you all." And just as they began to feel a little bit of hope down
in their hearts, it was so much easier all bearing the suspense together, a
light tripping step came up the staircase, and little Doctor Fisher's big
spectacles were thrust in the doorway.

"Just right. Very sensible." He beamed at them all, and darted over and
took the poor mother's hand.

"Your boy is all right," he said. "His collar bone is broken, to be sure,
but it is a beautiful fracture. And he has some bruises. Thank the Lord it
is no worse."

There was a rustle back of him. Then two or three boys broke from the group
and fell upon him in the rear.

"Is that true?" the foremost one shouted.

"Eh?"--little Doctor Fisher whirled around--"yes indeed, true as gospel.
Oh, see here now," as the whole bunch made a mad plunge for the hall. "Come
back here, boys."

Every single one came slowly back, except Frick; he had cleared the space
to the top of the stairs, and was now making his quickest time on record
down the flight.

"You are not to cheer; I see you want to," and Doctor Fisher gave a little
laugh.

"Yes, sir," Curtis Park answered for the rest.

"Well, you----"

"Doctor Fisher"--it was Mrs. Sterling who interrupted, and she smiled--"I
should very much like to hear that cheer now."

_"Ma'am!"_ exclaimed the little doctor, gazing at her over his
spectacles.

"Oh, it would do me good, I assure you," said Mrs. Sterling, leaning back
in a satisfied way against her pillows. "So, if you please, boys, let me
hear it at once"--smiling at them.

And they gave it then and there, the poor mother in all this confusion
getting time to recover herself.

And then three more for the little doctor. And then one of the boys, the
least likely to have courage to propose it, piped out:

"Let's give her three"--pointing to the hostess.

How pleased the poor invalid was, and how she beamed at them all! And when
Doctor Fisher saw that, he was so well satisfied that he shook hands with
them all quite around the circle.

"Now I must go. I'll look in again on your boy in an hour. Madam"--to Mrs.
Keep. "Meantime, I'd stay over here, for I've sent for a nurse from the
hospital; he must be kept quiet a spell. Good-day," and he was off.

"Now, boys"--there was a pretty pink spot in either cheek, as Mrs. Sterling
turned to them--"do you know, I've thought of a plan by which you might do
something for Lawrence?"

"What--oh, what?" They crowded up to her sofa. Gibson, from the doorway
where she had retreated, to be within call, looked a little anxious, but
catching a glance from her mistress, smoothed out her face again.

"What is your plan?" asked Curtis. It really seemed as if the boys had been
accustomed to gather in that room, by the way in which they now crowded up
as comrades entering into anything that might be proposed.

"You know that before long Lawrence will be able to see you, we hope,"
began Mrs. Sterling, in her cheeriest way. "Gibson, push up that pillow a
little more."

"Oh, I will," cried Curtis, springing forward.

Gibson, in great trepidation at any one performing the office for her
mistress, started to do it, but Curtis was already most gallantly, if a
trifle awkwardly, pushing up the pillow, giving it a rousing thump that got
on the nerves of the maid.

"You should have waited for me," she said tartly.

"Never mind; that is all right." Mrs. Sterling smiled up at him where he
stood, the hot blood in his face, and his eyes downcast. "I'm very much
obliged to you, Curtis. I guess you are accustomed to do it for your
mother," she said encouragingly.

"I do--I am," he said incoherently, beginning to feel better. It was only
Gibson who was cross, he reflected; Mrs. Sterling herself was as nice as
she could be.

"Well now, if I were you," said Mrs. Sterling, turning on her pillow to get
a good look at them all, "I'd form a committee, a comfort committee, to
think up things that will interest Lawrence. And by and by the doctor is
going to let you go to see him, and----"

"What things?" The small boy who had proposed the cheers for Mrs. Sterling,
now pushed to the front, so as to get a good look at her. "Tell me, please,
what things?"

"Well, you can cut out funny things from the magazines and papers for one
thing," said Mrs. Sterling, quite delighted at the success of her plan so
far, "and the nurse can read them to him."

"I've got a lot of _Punch_ numbers," cried one boy.

"And _Life,_" said another.

"And oceans of magazines." They all shouted one thing, and another. Gibson,
who by this time was tired of popping her head in and out, had withdrawn to
a little room opening out of her mistress' apartment, and taken up her
sewing, quite convinced that far from its being a cause for alarm,
everything was going on finely.

"Well now, just see how much pleasure that will give him," Mrs. Sterling
was saying.

"What else?" asked the small boy.

"Then has any one of you any puzzles?" asked Mrs. Sterling, "or conundrums?
Don't you think that is fine, to have something to think of beside dismal
things, when you lie in bed?"

Curtis Park was just in his element here, for he dearly loved puzzles and
conundrums. And presently Mrs. Sterling and he were busily talking over
this and that kind, and book, and collection, until finally the small boy
pulled the fringe of her pink crocheted shawl.

"I want to know what else?"

"Dear me!" Mrs. Sterling looked up quickly, to give a little laugh. It
wasn't loud, but so cheery and sweet that Gibson, in the little outer room,
dropped her sewing in her lap. "Thank the Lord!" she said, and wiped her
eyes.

Frick, meanwhile, too excited to hear the doctor call them to come back,
had darted out of the house, with no thought for the rain, but with one
wild desire--to find Joel Pepper. And as he had a perfect faculty for
sprinting, and cut through, with a dash, all the cross-streets, he soon
found himself for the second time that day at the King mansion.

But this second time he was no more fortunate than the first. For although
he was willingly admitted to Mr. King's writing-room, it was to see that
gentleman look up and say with the most genial of smiles:

"Ah, Frick, my boy, well, this time it's all right, isn't it, since I let
Joel go down to you?"

"Joel hasn't been with us," blurted out Frick, Then he leaned against the
big writing-table, speech all gone, for he began to feel terribly tired,
and it had been nothing but one long disappointment all day.

Old Mr. King laid down his pen and looked Frick all over.

"Oh, no, he hasn't," declared Frick, shaking his head dismally; "we haven't
any of us seen him, and Larry Keep has been run over by Mr. MacIlvaine's
tallyho, and most smashed up." Then he stopped suddenly, his cup of woe
being empty.

"The first thing to do is to find Joel," said Mr. King to himself,
anxiously. "The storm is almost over, to be sure"--glancing out of the
window--"but where can he be?" He hurried across the room and touched the
electric button. "You haven't the least idea, Frick, where to look for him,
eh?"

"No, sir," said Frick miserably.

Thomas popped his head in, to be given the order to have one of the
rainy-day carriages brought round. Just then, in ran Jasper. He had been
caught by the sudden shower over at Pickering Dodge's.

"Father," he cried, his face glowing, "I've come home as soon as it slacked
up a bit. Why, you are not going out?"--seeing the old gentleman beginning
to don his mackintosh.

"Yes, I am," said Mr. King grimly, "going to do just that very thing,
Jasper."

"Oh, let me, Father." Jasper sprang to his side eagerly, then looked in a
puzzled way over to Frick.

"It's Joel," said Frick, feeling that it was expected of him to furnish an
answer.

"Joel?" cried Jasper, the color going out of his cheek.

"Yes, Joel can't be found," said old Mr. King, speaking lightly to hide the
dismay he really felt. "It's all right, of course; he's probably at one of
the boys' houses; only as he was to join Frick, why, I'd prefer to look him
up a bit. Well, there's Thomas"--glancing out of the window.

"Oh, let me go for him," begged Jasper. "I can find him. Surely, you don't
need to, Father; don't, pray, in all this rain."

"I am going after Joel," declared his father, quite obstinately, "so say no
more about it, Jasper"--moving past him to the door. "Come, along, Frick,
my boy, you might as well come, too."

"Let me go, too," cried Jasper. "Oh, Father, can't I? I can at least help."
He didn't say "take care of you," but he really felt anxious to the last
degree.

"Yes, yes," said his father, "of course you may come if you like." So
Jasper, well pleased, rushed for his mackintosh, and all three got into the
carriage, and Thomas whirled them off in his best style.

"It isn't really worth while to worry Mrs. Fisher," said old Mr. King when
well on the way, "for we shall probably soon run across Joel as bright as a
button, and gay as a lark. Bless me, how this rain comes down!"


XIX

JOEL'S NEW FRIEND


But no Joel "bright as a button and gay as a lark" came in sight. Instead,
at a corner they were turning rapidly, Mr. King in desperation giving the
order to drive to one of the boys' houses most likely to attract Joel's
attention this morning, Thomas came to an abrupt halt that nearly threw the
horses back on their haunches.

"What are you about there?" he cried in vexation. "Can't you keep out from
under the horses' heels, I'd like to know?"

The boy thus addressed paid not the slightest attention to the irate
coachman, but advanced to the carriage door. He seemed to have something
the matter with his arm that would evidently have given him a good deal of
bother had his mind been on anything but the desire to attract Mr. King's
attention.

But that gentleman, violently jolted by the sudden pull-up of the horses,
not being in the best frame of mind, called out testily, "Bless me, what is
the man stopping for? Drive on, Thomas," and looked directly over his head.

Seeing which, the boy clambered up the carriage step and hung on with one
hand, but so much determination was in his eyes that old Mr. King fumed
out: "Make the scoundrel get down, Jasper."

"What do you want?" asked Jasper, trying to make it as pleasant as
possible, before the more summary treatment set in.

"I've got to speak to him," said the boy. Thomas, gathering up the reins in
one hand and the whip in the other, looked around with fury in his eye.
"Shall I give him a lick?" he asked.

"No, no," said Jasper hastily, "keep quiet, Thomas."

"I've nothing to say to you," cried Mr. King in his most pompous way, and
with a stately wave of his hand, "so take yourself off, boy."

"Father--" began Jasper, in a distressed tone.

"And be quick about it." The old gentleman fairly roared it out. "Thomas,
drive on."

That functionary, with a very dissatisfied expression that he hadn't been
allowed to use his whip when he got it all ready so nicely, now cracked it
at the horses. The boy, with one hesitating glance at Jasper, slid off the
carriage-step down to the street, and yelled defiantly up into Mr. King's
face as the brougham spun off:

"I was going to tell you where your boy is."

"Father!" exclaimed Jasper, with a white face, "he must know where Joel is.
Thomas, _Thomas, stop!_" For Thomas, having no other way to vent his
vexation, took it out in driving as fast as possible, so he didn't hear
what was going on in the coach.

"Eh?" Mr. King was saying in bewilderment. At last Jasper succeeded in
getting his wishes known, and once more the horses were jerked back, for
the summons was quick and sharp.

By this time the boy was off, and although Jasper peered this way and that,
he could see nothing of the old blue cap that had adorned the head thrust
over the carriage door.

"He knows something about Joel, Father, you may depend," persisted Jasper;
"we must find him."

Frick, who had been ready to cry, all huddled down in his corner, now sat
straight, for it didn't seem to be just the time for tears, and in a minute
he had scrambled past Mr. King, and hopped out.

"I'm going to find him," came back on the air, as he shot off.

"Do you wait here, Father," said Jasper, following him, and leaping out,
"and we'll get the boy."

But the boy, quite willing to tell whatever story there was on his mind
when he jumped on the carriage step, was now of a different mind, and he
ran like a deer, first down one street then another. At last, finding
himself pursued by some one not at all inclined to easily give up the
chase, it suddenly dawned on him that his blue cap might possibly be a
means of tracing his course. So he twitched it off and tucked it under his
well arm. This made it more difficult for Jasper, whose footsteps were fast
gaining on him, to follow him accurately, and for the first time a horrible
moment came to the pursuer when he thought that after all the boy might
escape; but Frick, who had seen Jasper's nimble progress around a corner,
ran down a side street, then across a garden, and came plump into the face
of the boy.

"Here he is," cried Frick, the breath almost knocked out of him by the
encounter. He had grasped whatever he could first lay his fingers on and
held to it firmly. It proved to be the arm for which the boy had not
appeared to have much use.

Once caught, the boy gave a groan, then started to run. Frick being
smaller, it might be an easy matter to shake him off, even with only one
available arm.

"No, you don't get away this time," said Frick, for the tall boy had him in
hand now, and was marching him back to the carriage at a pace much more
comfortable for all concerned. "What have you to tell us?" he was being
asked.

"I would have told you then," said the boy doggedly. He couldn't help but
show some suffering in his face, and Jasper, looking down to see its cause,
found one arm hanging in a very peculiar manner. "You've hurt your arm," he
said abruptly. "Frick, take care"--to the boy, not at all particular what
he took hold of if he only got a good grip.

"Well, he shan't get away," said Frick decidedly, nipping up the end of the
jacket nearest to him.

"How did you hurt your arm?" asked Jasper. Despite all his anxiety about
Joel, and an awful feeling that in some way an accident had occurred that
had enveloped them both, he looked into he face beneath him with real
concern.

"None of your business," the boy was going to say, but instead he turned
away his face, then brought it back, and defiance was written all over it.
"He sassed me, that old fellow in the carriage. Did you s'pose I'd tell him
after that?"

"He's dreadfully anxious," said Jasper, ignoring everything else. "You see,
Joel's been gone in all this storm, and we don't know anything in the world
where he is."

"I do," said the boy.

"Then, if you do"--Jasper stopped suddenly and brought his keen dark eyes
to bear on the rough, defiant face--"I just hope you will tell me. And I
know you will," he added, after a pause in which Frick fastened his gaze on
them both wildly, luckily without discovering any use for his tongue.

The boy swallowed hard, dropped his eyes for a moment, then looked up.

"He was out on the pond."

"Out on the pond!" echoed Frick, and his hand nipping the jacket-end fell
nerveless to his side.

"No one told you to speak," said the boy sharply, turning on him, "so you
shut up."

"But what was he doing out on the pond in such a storm?" asked Jasper. His
lips were white, but he didn't allow his eyes to waver, for it was better
to have the whole story before getting back to his father.

"It didn't rain till after we'd had the row," said the boy.

"Had the row?" It seemed an eternity to Jasper, for Joel perhaps even now
might be in peril, before the next question was answered, "What row?"

"Yes," said the boy, as if he were going to add, "Well, what are you going
to do about it?" The next moment, he had made up his mind to tell all there
was to tell. It wasn't exactly clear why, but he was giving the account in
a very few words, leaving it where it ended with his seeing Joel rowing off
down the pond.

And presently the two who had hopped out of the carriage, with the new boy
and the one who had thrust his head in over the door, were seated in the
brougham, and Thomas had turned his back on the city streets and was
driving off at a furious pace for Spy Pond.

Frick collapsed now and mumbled distractedly, "Oh, dear! now Joel's----"
what, he didn't trust himself to say. "And Larry's 'most killed, and----"

Jasper interrupted him sharply, "What do you say, Frick?" for it was the
first hint of anything gone wrong with any of the other boys.

Then out came that story to add to the general misery, and old Mr. King sat
very straight and kept saying, "Bless me! Tell Thomas to drive faster," and
"Oh, bless me!" again, as he glanced over at the boy.

But no Joel. They pranced, the horses did, shaking off the rain from their
wet manes, around as much of the pond as was adapted to carriages, and
Jasper and Frick got out and explored the rest, at least wherever Joel
would be supposed to put into port, the boy holding up the arm that
appeared not to be in its usual condition and going along, too, yet unable
to add any information to his original statement. At last: "Probably Joel's
gone home"--it was all Jasper could do to get the words out of his white
lips.

Without a word old Mr. King sank back, and waved his hand, which meant
"Yes," settling down amongst the cushions hopelessly, while their faces
were turned homeward.

"Hullo!" Unmistakably Joel's voice, and there he was, wet and dirty, and
waving frantically from a side street for them to stop, as he made his best
time to the corner.

Jasper threw wide the door. "_Joe!_" he cried. Thomas pulled up again,
the horses by this time having become so well accustomed to this method of
bringing up that they did it quite well, and there was a great to-do in the
coach.

"I've been calling and calling," panted Joel, blowing like a porpoise, and
running up with red cheeks, "and you wouldn't stop," he added in a very
injured way.

"Well, we didn't hear you, you beggar," cried Jasper. "Come, get in with
you"--putting out both hands to assist in the process. "Where have you
been, Joe?" for old Mr. King was beyond talking.

"I've been--" began Joel, glad enough to hop in; "why, where--" as his
black eyes fell on the boy in the corner.

Frick had tried to swarm all over him, but Joel put out an unsteady hand.

"I came to tell," said the boy, seeing he was expected to say something.

"Oh, don't," cried Joel involuntarily; "'tisn't any matter; I don't care."

"Well, it's all out, Joe," said Jasper affectionately, who couldn't stop
patting his back. Frick flew over to the opposite side and let Joel snuggle
up to the old gentleman. "I'm here, Grandpapa," he said happily.

"Oh, bless me! Yes, my boy!" said old Mr. King brokenly, and fondling the
little brown hands. "Well, we must get you home and out of these wet
clothes as soon as possible. I don't know what your mother will say. Oh,
dear me, Joe!"

"Pooh!" cried Joel, "I'm not wet."

"You're wet as a drowned rat, Joe," declared Jasper, bursting into a laugh,
which was such a relief to all concerned that in a minute it really seemed
like a pleasure excursion. But Joel pulled himself up.

"Oh, I'm going to see what's the matter with Jack's arm," and he leaned
over and put his hand on it.

"Nothing," said Jack, trying to pull it away, but Joel held on.

"Tis, too," he said. "You're going to have it fixed. Grandpapa, won't you
take him to Doctor Fisher's office? Please do."

At this Frick pricked up his ears. "Doctor Fisher isn't----"

"Frick," began Jasper desperately, "look out and see if it rains."

Frick stared in amazement, and even Joel bobbed his head over at Jasper.

"Why, doesn't it rain on your side?" he cried, his black eyes very wide.

"Never mind; do as I tell you," said Jasper, nowise disconcerted. So Frick
reported that it did rain; and then Jasper began to talk so fast that Joel
had no time to get in a word at all, although he tried with all his might.

"See here," he shouted at last, and his voice rang clear above every other
noise, "can't we take him to Doctor Fisher's office--can't we, Grandpapa?
Make Thomas turn about and take us there"--he fairly howled it now.

"And Doctor Fisher won't be there," screamed Frick, on just as high a key.

"Why not?"

It was impossible to stop the dreadful news of Larry's accident from coming
now. And in a minute Frick had it all out in a burst, quite unconscious of
Jasper's efforts, and well pleased at having something important to say.

"Larry's been run over by Mr. MacIlvaine's tallyho, and 'most smashed to
death."


XX

THE COOKING CLUB


"Oh, my goodness me!" Alexia gave a jump, then ran for the closet.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Polly, standing quite still in the middle of the room,
the lightning flash and the sudden peal of thunder coming without warning.

"Oh, I'm scared to death," cried Alexia, burrowing frantically; "come in
here, Polly Pepper. Are you killed?" she screamed.

"No," said Polly, "and I don't believe there'll be another as bad."

"Oh, come in here. Ooh!" cried Alexia, in muffled accents, as she huddled
up against the clothes.

"Oh, Polly!" It was Miss Rhys: her embroidery, cast aside at the sudden
storm-burst, was dragging behind her, and she was wringing her hands. "Did
you ever see anything so dreadful?"

"I don't believe there'll be another as bad," said Polly again, finding
nothing more of consolation to offer.

"And where is Alexia?" And without waiting for an answer, Miss Rhys
paced nervously up and down the room, still wringing her hands. "And
of course there will be more; there, there it comes," and she ran, the
embroidery-piece still hanging to her gown, into the closet.

"Oh, Aunt," cried Alexia, with a squeal, "you scared me 'most to death; I
thought I was struck!"

"Why, are you here, Alexia?" gasped Miss Rhys, when she could recover
herself enough to speak. "Well, this is truly a dreadful storm," and she
clutched her with shaking fingers.

"Yes, I am here," said Alexia. "Don't pinch so, Aunt--ow! My arm is all
black and blue, I know it is."

"It's no time to think of such little things, Alexia," replied her aunt
severely; "it may kill us both."

"Well, that's no reason I should be all pinched to death," grumbled Alexia,
forgetting the thunderstorm in her present discomfort and edging off as
well as she could. "The closet is dreadfully small, Aunt."

"It's quite large enough, I'm sure, to protect us," said Miss Rhys, hanging
tightly to her with trembling fingers. "Dear me! any minute may be our
last."

"Well, I'm not going to be smothered to death," declared Alexia, struggling
to work her way past her aunt.

"Alexia!" exclaimed her aunt.

"I'm going after Polly." Alexia out in the middle of the room flung her arm
around Polly. "Oh, misery!--where?" as a vivid flash seemed to hop right in
the window. "Oh, Polly, come!" She clutched her wildly.

"Where?" said Polly. "We can't get away from it, Alexia; it's just
everywhere."

"Oh, I don't care--anywhere--in the coal-scoop," cried Alexia, frantically
dragging her along. "I shall just die, Polly Pepper, and here you stand
like a stick."

"Well, there's just no use in running," said Polly, but seeing Alexia's
distress she suffered herself to be led, and downstairs the two girls sped,
and into the landlady's room, the first door to stand ajar.

"I'm coming in," announced Alexia, without ceremony, "for I'm scared to
death," and she dragged Polly Pepper after her. "Did you ever see such a
thunderstorm, Mrs. Cummings?"

"It is pretty bad," a voice answered. It wasn't Mrs. Cummings, as she had
hurried to oversee the maid close the windows through the house, but
another of the boarders, who, like Alexia, had selected this apartment for
a refuge.

"Oh, dear me!" Alexia sank down upon the sofa, being careful not to
relinquish her hold of Polly, and dragged a cushion over her face. "Is that
you, Mr. Filbert"--bringing out one eye to stare at him.

"I think so," said Mr. Filbert, a little thin old man sitting over in the
corner and leaning forward over his cane. He spoke cautiously, as if not
quite sure. "Yes, it _is_ a bad storm," he repeated decidedly. "Where
is your aunt?"

"She's up in the closet," said Alexia, pulling the sofa-cushion over her
own and Polly's face as well. "There, we can't see it at any rate, if we
are going to be killed."

"Up in the closet?" repeated Mr. Filbert.

"Yes. Oh, Polly, do you suppose it's lightening and thundering now?"--as
the two girls cuddled up closer together on the roomy old sofa, the cushion
crowded up over eyes and ears.

"I suppose so," said Polly, very much wishing she could say "No."

"Oh, dear me! I'm smothered to death," grumbled Alexia, "and I'm so
hot"--wriggling discontentedly.

"So am I," said Polly.

"What did you say? Your aunt was in the closet?" little old Mr. Filbert was
asking; and receiving no reply, he kept on.

"Oh, do hear him," whispered Alexia, back of the sofa-cushion; "he is so
tiresome, asking the same thing over and over."

"Well, do answer him," said Polly.

"I have, once," said Alexia.

"Is your aunt in the closet, did you say?" Mr. Filbert kept on, with the
impression that a reply would soon be coming if he only held up the
conversation at his end of it.

Alexia dashed down the sofa-cushion with a nervous hand. "I can't breathe;
let's get out, Polly," and she flew up, to sit quite straight. "Yes, my
aunt is up in the closet, Mr. Filbert. Whee! Oh, I am so scared, Polly
Pepper!"

"She'll be struck there quicker 'n any other place she could pick out,"
declared the little old gentleman positively.

Alexia hopped off from the sofa and ran on anxious feet to his chair.

"What did yon say, Mr. Filbert? and how do you know?" she cried, all in one
breath.

"The chimney closets always catch the lightning first," said Mr. Filbert
cheerfully; "you see, it----"

Alexia dashed off, ran through the hall and up to her own room. "Aunt,
Aunt," she cried, thrusting her head into the closet, "you'll be struck in
there, Mr. Filbert says so. Come out, Aunt."

There was no response, and Alexia, now in mortal terror, plunged into the
closet.

"Come, Aunt. Oh, my!" as a clap of thunder sent her plunging in headlong.
"Why, where--" for grope as she might, clear up to the end, among the
clothes and the shoe-bag, no Miss Rhys was to be found.

"Oh, dear, dear!" Alexia began to whimper, feeling all around the floor
with terror-stricken fingers. "Aunt, where are you? Oh, she's been struck
and she's dead, I know she is! Polly Pepper," she screamed, tumbling out of
the closet to rush to the head of the stairs, "come up and help me find
Aunt."

"Alexia!" Miss Rhys, concluding not to be left alone in the closet when the
two girls ran downstairs, had hurried out after them, and now appeared from
the hall corner where she had crouched. "Don't scream so."

"Oh, Aunt!" cried Alexia, throwing her arms around her, "you haven't been
struck, have you? Oh, do say you haven't."

"Why, of course not; don't you see I'm here?" said Miss Rhys. "There,
child, take care, you're mussing my lace collar," and she edged off from
the nervous fingers. "We'll go downstairs, I think, and stay with Mrs.
Cummings."

"If you're really sure you are not struck," said Alexia, eying her askance,
as if in considerable doubt, "we'll go; and Polly Pepper is there and that
tiresome old Mr. Filbert."

"If Polly is there, she must stay to luncheon," said Miss Rhys, gathering
up her skirts and preparing to descend the stairs.

"Oh, how fine!" exclaimed Alexia, hopping after, losing sight of the
thunderstorm in the delight of having Polly Pepper to herself for so many
hours. "Oh, Aunt, what's that tagging after you?"--catching sight of the
piece of embroidery dangling from her aunt's long figure.

"I see nothing," said Miss Rhys, turning around with her head over her
shoulder.

"Well, do stand still, Aunt," cried Alexia, "a minute."

"What is it?" Miss Rhys kept saying, trying to see for herself.

"Your centerpiece--oh, dear me!" Alexia by this time had it free, and burst
into a laugh as she held it up.

"Well, now, I expect I have dragged off my green floss," exclaimed her
aunt, in irritation. "I am quite sure of it."

"Well, 'twould be in the closet," said Alexia, who didn't relish offering
to go back, "'twon't hurt it to stay there a little while."

"I must find it," said Miss Rhys decidedly. And Alexia, wild to go down to
tell Polly Pepper she was to stay to luncheon, flew over the stairs,
leaving her aunt to get her green floss as she could.

"But I can't," said Polly, when Alexia had hugged her and danced around her
to her heart's content; "I must go home."

"Why, Polly Pepper, you can't ever go in this awful rain."

"It isn't going to rain much more," said Polly, running over to the window
to flatten her face against the pane.

"You'll be struck if you do that." Little Mr. Filbert looked after her in
disapproval. "The window is the worst place in a thunderstorm; you see,
it----"

"Oh, that's what you said about the chimney closet," said Alexia, in scorn,
"and there can't be two places that are the worst."

"Oh, Alexia," said Polly, looking back from the window.

"Well, he's so tiresome," said Alexia, putting her arm around her and
gazing out of the window; "that's just the way he goes on at the table
every single day. Oh, see it rain, Polly Pepper!"

"It's slackening," said Polly, peering up at the drops, that really were
beginning to fall with little spaces between. "And Mamsie will send for me
soon, I guess."

"Oh, well, it will begin again most likely," said Alexia. "I hope this
thunderstorm will last till ever so late this afternoon."

"Oh, Alexia Rhys!" cried Polly, in great distress, and whirling away from
the window, "don't wish that. Why, I must get home."

"Well, I do," said Alexia, bobbing her light hair till the fluffs settled
over her forehead, "for then you'd stay. You haven't been over here in ever
and ever so long, Polly Pepper," she said, in an injured voice, "and I've
got so very much to talk with you about."

"Well, let's talk now, then," said Polly, with a sigh, yet feeling quite
sure that she would soon be sent for to go home.

"Come over to the sofa then," said Alexia, So they ran over, and together
settled as far back into the corner as they could, pushing up one of the
cushions comfortably behind them.

"Well, now, you begin," said Polly.

"I didn't come for that. And after all it is you and Henri who have done
the thing--not I."

Accustomed to women of a more sophisticated class, Jean had at first
taken her naïveté for the height of subtlety.

He was always expecting her to betray herself. But after that evening with
her he changed.

Just such simplicity had been his wife's. Sometimes Sara Lee reminded him
of her--the upraising of her eyes or an unstudied gesture.

He sighed.

"You are very wonderful, you Americans," he said. It was the nearest to a
compliment that he had ever come. And after that evening he was always
very gentle with her.

Once he had protected her because Henri had asked him to do so; now he
himself became in his silent way her protector.

The ride home through the dark was very quiet. Sara Lee sat beside him
watching the stars and growing increasingly anxious as they went,
not too rapidly, toward the little house.

There were no lights. Air raids had grown common in Dunkirk, and there
were no street lights in the little city. Once on the highway Jean lighted
the lamps, but left them very low, and two miles from the little house he
put them out altogether.

They traveled by starlight then, following as best they could the tall trees
that marked the road.

Now and then they went astray at that, and once they tilted into the ditch
and had hard pulling to get out.

At the top of the street Jean stopped and went on foot a little way down.

He came back, with the report that new shells had made the way
impassable; and again Sara Lee shivered.

If the little house was gone!

But it was there, and lighted too. Through its broken shutters came the
yellow glow of the oil lamp that now hung over the table in the
_salle à

manger_.

Whatever Jean's anxieties had been fell from him as he pushed open the
door. Henri's voice was the first thing they heard. He was too much occupied
to notice their approach.

So it was that Sara Lee saw, for the last time, the miller and his
son, Maurice; saw them, but did not know them, for over their heads
were bags of their own sacking, with eyeholes roughly cut in them.

Their hands were bound, and three soldiers were waiting to take them
away.

"I have covered your heads," Henri was saying in French, "because
it is not well that our brave Belgians should know that they have
been betrayed by those of their own number."

It was a cold and terrible Henri who spoke.

"Take them away," he said to the waiting men.

A few moments later he turned from the door and heard Sara Lee sobbing in her
room. He tapped, and on receiving no reply he went in.

The room was unharmed, and by the light of a candle he saw the girl,
face down on the bed.

He spoke to her, but she only lay crouched deeper, her shoulders shaking.

"It is war, mademoiselle," he said, and went closer.

Then suddenly all the hurt of the past days, all the bitterness of the last
hour, were lost in an overwhelming burst of tenderness.

He bent over her and put his arms round her.

"That I should have hurt you so!" he said softly. "I, who would die for you,
mademoiselle. I who worship you." He buried his face in the warm hollow of
her neck and held her close. He was trembling.

"I love you," he whispered. "I love you."
She quieted under his touch. He was very strong, and there was
refuge in his arms.

For a moment she lay still, happier than she had been for weeks.

It was Henri who was shaken now and the girl who was still.

But very soon came the thing that, after all, he expected.

She drew herself away from him, and Henri, sensitive to every gesture,
stood back.

"Who are they?"

was the first thing she said. It rather stabbed him.
He had just told her that he loved her, and never before in his careless
young life had he said that to any woman.

"Spies," he said briefly.

A flushed and tearful Sara Lee stood up then and looked up at him
gravely.

"Then--that is what you do?"

"Yes, mademoiselle."
Quite suddenly she went to him and held up her face.

"Please kiss me, Henri," she said very simply.

"I have been cruel and stupid, and--"
But he had her in his arms then, and he drew her close as though
he would never let her go.

He was one great burst of joy, poor Henri. But when she gently freed herself
at last it was to deliver what seemed for a time his death wound.

"You have paid me a great tribute," she said, still simply and
gravely.

"I wanted you to kiss me, because of what you said. But that will have
to be all, Henri dear."
"All?" he said blankly.

"You haven't forgotten, have you? I--I am engaged to somebody else."
Henri stood still, swaying a little.

"And you love him? More than you care for me?"
"He is--he is my kind," said Sara Lee rather pitifully.

"I am not what you think me. You see me here, doing what you think is good
work, and you are grateful.

And you don't see any other women. So I--"
"And you think I love you because I see no one else?" he demanded, still
rather stunned.

"Isn't that part of it?"
He flung out his hands as though he despaired of making her understand.

"This man at home--" he said bitterly; "this man who loves you so well that
he let you cross the sea and come here alone--do you love him very
dearly?"

"I am promised to him."
All at once Sara Lee saw the little parlor at home, and Harvey,
gentle, rather stolid and dependable.

Oh, very dependable. She saw him as he had looked the night he had said he
loved her, rather wistful and very, very tender. She could not hurt him so.
She had said she was going back to him, and she must go.

"I love him very much, Henri."
Very quietly, considering the hell that was raging in him, Henri bent over
and kissed her hand.

Then he turned it over, and for an instant he held his cheek against its
warmth. He went out at once, and Sara Lee heard the door slam.

[Illustration: "That I should have hurt you so!" he said softly.]

XVI

Time passed quickly, as always it does when there is work to do. Round the
ruined houses the gray grass turned green again, and in travesties of gardens
early spring flowers began to show a touch of color.

The first of them greeted Sara Lee one morning as she stood on her
doorstep in the early sun.

She gathered them and placed them, one on each grave, in the cemetery
near the poplar trees, where small wooden crosses, sometimes
surmounted by a cap, marked many graves.

Marie, a silent subdued Marie, worked steadily in the little house.

She did not weep, but now and then Sara Lee found her stirring
something on the stove and looking toward the quiet mill in the
fields.

And once Sara Lee, surprising that look on her face, put her arms
about the girl and held her for a moment.

But she did not say anything. There was nothing to say.

With the opening up of the spring came increased movement and activity
among the troops.

The beach and the sand dunes round La Panne were filled with
drilling men, Belgium's new army.

Veterans of the winter, at rest behind the lines, sat in the sun and pared
potatoes for the midday meal. Convalescents from the hospital appeared in
motley garments from the Ambulance Ocean and walked along the water
front, where the sea, no longer gray and sullen, rolled up in thin
white lines of foam to their very feet.

Winter straw came out of wooden sabots.
Winter-bitten hands turned soft.

Canal boats blossomed out with great washings. And the sentry at the gun
emplacement in the sand up the beach gave over gathering sticks for
his fire, and lay, when no one was about, in a hollow in the dune, face
to the sky.

So spring came to that small fragment of Belgium which had been
saved, spring and hope.

Soon now the great and powerful Allies would drive out the Huns, and
all would be as it had been.

Splendid rumors were about.
The Germans were already yielding at La Bassée.

There was to be a great drive along the entire Front, and hopefully
one would return home in time for the spring planting.

A sort of informal council took place occasionally in the little house.
Maps replaced the dressings on the table in the _salle à manger_, and
junior officers, armed with Sara Lee's box of pins, thrust back the enemy
at various points and proved conclusively that his position was
untenable.

They celebrated these paper victories with Sara Lee's tea, and went away
the better for an hour or so of hope and tea and a girl's soft voice and
quiet eyes.

Now and then there was one, of course, who lagged behind his fellows,
with a yearning tenderness in his face that a glance from the girl
would have quickly turned to love.

But Sara Lee had no coquetry. When, as occasionally happened, there was a
bit too much fervor when her hand was kissed, she laid it where
it belonged--to loneliness and the spring--and became extremely
maternal and very, very kind.

Which--both of them--are death blows to young love.

The winter floods were receding. Along the Yser Canal mud-caked flats began
to appear, with here and there rusty tangles of barbed wire.

And with the lessening of the flood came new activities to the little
house.
The spring drive was coming.

There was spring indeed, everywhere but in Henri's heart.

Day after day messages were left with Sara Lee by men in uniform--sometimes
letters, sometimes a word. And these she faithfully cared for until such
time as Jean came for them.

Now and then it was Henri who came, but when he stayed in the village he
made his headquarters at the house of the mill.

There, with sacking over the windows, he wrote his reports by
lamplight, reports which Jean carried back to the villa in the
fishing village by the sea.

However, though he no longer came and went as before, Henri made
frequent calls at the house of mercy.

But now he came in the evenings, when the place was full of men. Sara Lee
was doing more dressings than before.

The semi-armistice of winter was over, and there were nights when a
row of wounded men lay on the floor in the little _salle à manger_
and waited, in a sort of dreadful quiet, to be taken away.

Rumors came of hard fighting farther along the line, and sometimes, on
nights when the clouds hung low, the flashes of the guns at Ypres
looked like incessant lightning.

From the sand dunes at Nieuport and Dixmude there was firing also, and
the air seemed sometimes to be full of scouting planes.

The Canadians were moving toward the Front at Neuve Chapelle at
that time.

And one day a lorry, piled high with boxes, rolled and thumped down the
street, and halted by René.

"Rather think we are lost," explained the driver, grinning sheepishly at
René.

There were four boys in khaki on the truck, and not a word of French
among them.

Sara Lee, who rolled her own bandages now, heard the speech and
came out.

"Good gracious!" she said, and gave an alarmed glance at the sky.

But it was the noon hour, when every good German abandons war for food, and
the sky was empty.

The boys cheered perceptibly. Here was at last some one who spoke a Christian
tongue.

"Must have taken the wrong turning, miss," said one of them, saluting.

"Where do you want to go?"

she asked. "You are very close to the Belgian Front here. It is not at all
safe."

They all saluted; then, staring at her curiously, told her.

"Dear me!" said Sara Lee. "You are a long way off. And a long way from
home too."

They smiled. They looked, with their clean-shaven faces, absurdly young
after the bearded Belgian soldiers.

"I am an American, too," said Sara Lee with just a touch of homesickness in
her voice. She had been feeling lonely lately. "If you have time to
come in I could give you luncheon.

René can tell us if any German air machines come over."
Would they come in?

Indeed, yes! They crawled down off the lorry, and took off their
caps, and ate every particle of food in the house.

And, though they were mutely curious at first, soon they were asking
questions.
How long had she been there?

What did she do? Wasn't it dangerous?

"Not so dangerous as it looks," said Sara Lee, smiling.

"The Germans seldom bother the town now.

It is not worth while."
Later on they went over the house.

They climbed the broken staircase and stared toward the break in the poplar
trees, from the roofless floor above.

"Some girl!" one of them said in an undertone.

The others were gazing intently toward the Front.

Never before had they been so close. Never had they seen a ruined town.
War, until now, had been a thing of Valcartier, of a long voyage,
of much drill in the mud at Salisbury Plain.

Now here they saw, at their feet, what war could do.

"Damn them!" said one of the boys suddenly. "Fellows, we'll get back at
them soon."

So they went away, a trifle silent and very grateful. But before they left
they had a glimpse of Sara Lee's room, with the corner gone, and
Harvey's picture on the mantel.

"Some girl!" they repeated as they drove up the street.

It was the tribute of inarticulate youth.

Sara Lee went back to her bandages and her thoughts.

She had not a great deal of time to think, what with the officers stopping
in to fight their paper-and-pin battles, and with letters to write and
dressings to make and supplies to order.

She began to have many visitors--officers from the French lines,
correspondents on tours of the Front, and once even an English
cabinet member, who took six precious lumps of sugar in his tea and
dug a piece of shell out of the wall with his pocketknife as a
souvenir.

Once a British aviator brought his machine down in the field by the mill,
and walked over with the stiff stride of a man who has been for
hours in the air.

She gave him tea and bread and butter, and she learned then of the big
fighting that was to come.

When she was alone she thought about Henri.

Generally her thoughts were tender; always they were grateful.

But she was greatly puzzled. He had said that he loved her.

Then, if he loved her, why should he not be gentle and kind to her? Men
did not hurt the women they loved. And because she was hurt, she
was rather less than just.

He had not asked her to marry him. He had said that he loved her, but that
was different.

And the insidious poison of Harvey's letter about foreigners began to have
its effect.

The truth was that she was tired. The strain was telling on her. And at a
time when she needed every moral support Henri had drawn off behind a wall
of misery, and all her efforts at a renewal of their old friendship
only brought up against a sort of stony despair.

There were times, too, when she grew a little frightened.

She was so alone. What if Henri went away altogether? What if he took
away the little car, and his protection, and the supplies that
came so regularly?

It was not a selfish fear. It was for her work that she trembled.

For the first time she realized her complete dependence on his good will.
And now and then she felt that it would be good to see Harvey again, and be
safe from all worry, and not have to depend on a man who loved her
as Henri did.

For that she never doubted.

Inexperienced as she was in such matters, she knew that the boy
loved her.

Just how wildly she did not know until later, too late to undo what the
madness had done.

Then one day a strange thing happened. It had been raining, and when in the
late afternoon the sun came out it gleamed in the puddles that
filled the shell holes in the road and set to a red blaze the windows
of the house of the mill.

First, soaring overhead, came a half dozen friendly planes.

Next, the eyes of the enemy having thus been blinded, so to speak,
there came a regiment of fresh troops, swinging down the street for
all the world as though the German Army was safely drinking beer
in Munich.

They passed René, standing open-mouthed in the doorway, and one wag of a
Belgian boy, out of sheer joy of spring, did the goose step as he
passed the little sentry and, head screwed round in the German
salute, crossed his eyes over his impudent nose.

Came, then, the planes. Came the regiment, which turned off into a field and
there spread itself, like a snake uncoiling, into a double line.
Came a machine, gray and battered, containing officers. Came a general with
gold braid on his shoulder, and a pleasant smile.

Came the strange event.

The general found Sara Lee in the _salle à manger_ cutting cotton into
three-inch squares, and he stood in the doorway and bowed
profoundly.

"Mademoiselle Kennedy?" he inquired.

Sara Lee replied to that, and then gave a quick thought to her larder.
Because generals usually meant tea. But this time at last, Sara Lee was
to receive something, not to give. She turned very white when she was told,
and said she had not deserved it; she was indeed on the verge of
declining, not knowing that there are certain things one does not
decline.

But Marie brought her hat and jacket--a smiling, tremulous Marie--and Sara
Lee put them on.

The general was very tall.

In her short skirt and with flying hair she looked like a child beside him
as they walked across the fields.

Suddenly Sara Lee was terribly afraid she was going to cry.

The troops stood rigidly at attention. And a cold wind flapped Sara Lee's
skirts, and the guns hammered at Ypres, and the general blew on
his fingers.

And soon a low open car came down the street and the King got out. Sara
Lee watched him coming--his tall, slightly stooped figure, his
fair hair, his plain blue uniform.

Sara Lee had never seen a king before, and she had always thought of them as
sitting up on a sort of platform--never as trudging through spring
mud.

"What shall I do?"

she asked nervously.

"He will shake hands, mademoiselle. Bow as he approaches. That is all."
The amazing interlude, indeed! With Sara Lee being decorated by the King,
and troops drawn up to do her honor, and over all the rumbling of
the great guns.

A palpitating and dazed Sara Lee, when the decoration was fastened
to her black jacket, a Sara Lee whose hat blew off at exactly the
worst moment and rolled, end on, like a hoop, into a puddle.

But, oddly, she did not mind about the hat. She had only one conscious
thought just then.

She hoped that, wherever Uncle James might be in that world of the gone
before, he might know what was happening to her--or even see it.

He would have liked it.

He had believed in the Belgians and in the King. And now--the King did not
go at once. He went back to the little house and went through it. And
he and one of his generals climbed to the upper floor, and the King stood
looking out silently toward the land he loved and which for a time
was no longer his.

He came down after a time, stooping his tall figure in the low doorway,
and said he would like some tea.

So Marie put the kettle on, and Sara Lee and the King talked.

It was all rather dazing. Every now and then she forgot certain instructions
whispered her by the general, and after a time the King said: "Why
do you do that, mademoiselle?"

For Sara Lee, with an intent face and moving lips, had been stepping
backward.

Sara Lee flushed to the eyes.

"Because, sire, I was told to remain at a distance of six feet."

"But we are being informal," said the King, smiling. "And it is a very
little room."

Sara Lee, who had been taught in the schoolroom that kings are usurpers of
the divine rights of the people--Sara Lee lost just a bit of her staunch
democracy that day. She saw the King of the Belgians for what he really
was, a ruler, but a symbol as well. He represented his country, as the Flag
she loved represented hers. The flag was America, the King was Belgium.
That was all.

It was a very humble and flushed Sara Lee who watched the gray car go
flying up the street later on. She went in and told the whole story to
Harvey's picture, but it was difficult to feel that he was hearing. His
eyes were turned away and his face was set and stern. And, at last, she
gave it up. This thing which meant so much to her would never mean
anything to Harvey.

She knew, even then, what he would say.

"Decorate you! I should think they might. Medals are cheap. Everybody
over there is getting medals.

You feed their men and risk your life and your reputation, and they give you
a thing to pin on. It's cheap at the price."

And later on those were Harvey's very words.

But to be fair to him they were but the sloughing of a wound that would not
heal.

That evening Henri came again. He was, for the first time, his gay
self again--at least on the surface.

It was as though, knowing what he was going into, he would leave
with Sara Lee no feeling, if he never returned, that she had inflicted
a lasting hurt.

He was everywhere in the little house, elbowing his way among the
men with his cheery nonsense, bantering the weary ones until they
smiled, carrying hot water for Sara Lee and helping her now and
then with a bad dressing.

"If you would do it in this fashion, mademoiselle," he would say, "with one
turn of the bandage over the elbow--"

"But it won't hold that way."

"You say that to me, mademoiselle? I who have taught you all you know of
bandaging?"

They would wrangle a bit, and end by doing it in Sara Lee's way.

He had a fund of nonsense that he drew on, too, when a dressing was
painful.

It would run like this, to an early accompaniment of groans:

"Pierre, what can you put in your left hand that you cannot place
in the right?

Stop grunting like a pig, and think, man!"

Pierre would give a final rumble and begin to think deeply.

"I cannot think. I--in my left hand, _monsieur le capitaine_?"
"In your left hand."

The little crowd in the dressing room would draw in close about the table
to listen.

"I do not know, monsieur."
"Idiot!"

Henri would say. "Your right elbow, man!"
And the dressing was done.

He had an inexhaustible stock of such riddles, almost never guessed.

He would tell the answer and then laugh delightedly. And pain seemed to leave
the little room when he entered it.

It was that night that Henri disappeared.

XVII
There was a question to settle, and it was for Henri to do it. Two
questions indeed. One was a matter of engineering, and before the
bottom fell out of his world Henri had studied engineering. The
second was more serious.
For the first, this thing had happened. Of all the trenches to be
held, the Belgians had undeniably the worst. Properly speaking they
were not trenches at all, but shallow gutters dug a foot or two
into the saturated ground and then built man-high with bags of earth
or sand. Here and there they were not dug at all, but were purely
shelters, against a railway embankment, of planks or sandbags, and
reinforced by rails from the deserted track behind which they were
hidden.
For this corner of Belgium had been saved by turning it into a
shallow lake. By opening the gates in the dikes the Allies had let
in the sea and placed a flood in front of the advancing enemy. The
battle front was a reeking pond. The opposing armies lived like
duck hunters in a swamp. To dig a foot was to encounter water.
Machine guns here and there sat but six inches above the yellow
flood. Men lay in pools to fire them. To reach outposts were narrow
paths built first of bags of earth--a life, sometimes for every
bag. And, when this filling was sufficient, on top a path of fascines,
bound together in bundles, made a footway.
For this reason the Belgians approached their trenches not through
deep cuts which gave them shelter but with no other cover than the
darkness of night. During the day, they lay in their shallow dugouts,
cut off from any connection with the world behind them. Food, cooked
miles away, came up at night, cold and unappetizing. For water,
having exhausted their canteens, there was nothing but the brackish
tide before them, ill-smelling and reeking of fever. Water carts
trundled forward at night, but often they were far too few.
The Belgians, having faced their future through long years of
anxiety, had been trained to fight. In a way they had been trained
to fight a losing war, for they could not hope to defeat their
greedy neighbor on the east. But now they found themselves fighting
almost not at all, condemned to inactivity, to being almost passively
slaughtered by enemy artillery, and to living under such conditions
as would have sapped the courage of a less desperate people.
To add to the difficulties, not only did the sea encroach, turning
a fertile land into a salt marsh, but the winter rains, unusually
heavy that tragic first winter, and lacking their usual egress to
the sea, spread the flood. There were many places well back of the
lines where fields were flooded, and where roads, sadly needed,
lost themselves in unfordable wallows of mud and water.A big blue-bottle over in the corner under the
rafters was making a final decision to explore the filmy lace web beneath
the window where a fat old spider had been patiently waiting for him, and
he gave his last buzz of freedom before he hopped in. This was all the
sound that broke the silence. Rachel held her breath, and fixed her black
eyes at a point straight ahead, positively sure if she withdrew her gaze
she would burst out crying.

"So you will be ready to go at ten o'clock, Rachel, for Miss Parrott will
send for you then," Mrs. Henderson was saying. And in a minute more the
parson's wife was going down the garret stairs; Rachel, with a heart full
of woe, slowly following, leaving the big garret to the fat old spider, who
was busily weaving her silken threads in glee over her prisoner.

And Rachel's woeful face was more than matched by the countenances of the
two boys of the parson's family, who were not at all pleased that the
companion sent to them by Mrs. Fisher, and who had turned out surprisingly
just to their liking, should be suddenly torn away from them even for a
single day. And they followed disapprovingly around, hanging upon all the
preparations for the momentous visit, with a very bad influence upon
Rachel's endeavor to control herself. Seeing which, their mother sent them
off on an errand to Grandma Bascom.

So, when the ancient carriage, with its well-seasoned coachman who rejoiced
in the name of Simmons, made its appearance, there was no one to see Rachel
off, save the patron's wife, the minister himself being away on a call lo a
sick parishioner.

Rachel went steadily down the walk between the box-borders, feeling her
heart sink at each step. Mrs. Henderson, well in advance, was down at the
roadside to help her in, with a last bit of good advice.

"Good-morning, Simmons," said the parson's wife pleasantly.

"Good-morning, Madam," Simmons touched his hat, and spoke with the air of
state, for he kept his English ways. Secretly, the parson's wife was always
quite impressed by them, and she looked at Rachel for some sign to that
effect. But the child was scowling, and biting her thin lips, and she
suffered Mrs. Henderson to assist her into the wide old vehicle without any
further change of expression. When once in, she gazed around, then leaned
forward on the slippery old green leather seat.

"Can't Peletiah come?" she gasped; "there's lots o' room."

"No," said Mrs. Henderson. "Now be a good girl"--all her fears returning as
she saw Rachel's face.

Simmons starting up the horses, that, although an old pair, yet liked to
set off with a flourish, the movement bounced Rachel violently against the
back of her seat and knocked her bonnet over her face. This gave her
something to think of, and changed her terror to a deep displeasure. When
the drive was ended, therefore, and the brougham, after its progress
through an avenue of fine old trees, was brought to a standstill before the
ancestral mansion where Miss Parrott's father and grandfather had lived
before her, the visitor was in no condition to enjoy the pleasures thrust
upon her.

Miss Parrott, in the stiff, black silk gown that she had worn the day when
she called at the parsonage, met her on the big stone steps. She put out a
hand in a long, black lace mitt, "I am very glad to see you, child," she
said, in old-time hospitality.

But no hospitality, old-time or any other, had a pleasant effect on Rachel.
She gave a glance up and around the big, gloomy gray, stone house, with a
wild thought of rushing down the avenue and home to the parsonage.

"It is a pleasant place, isn't it?" observed Miss Parrott with complacent
memory of always living in the grandest homestead for several counties.

"No, ma'am," said Rachel promptly.

Miss Parrott started, and gave a little gasp. Then, reflecting it was not
in accordance with fine manners to notice any such slip on the part of
guests, she led the way into the mansion. Simmons, much shocked, actually
forgot himself so far as to scratch his head, as he drove off to the
stables, and he didn't get over it all day.

"Perhaps you would like a little refreshment," suggested Miss Parrott,
when, the child's bonnet off, she was seated on the edge of a stiff,
high-backed chair. She couldn't think of anything else to say, and as she
usually offered it to her friends at the end of their long drives when they
called upon her, it seemed a happy thing to do now, especially as Rachel's
black eyes were fastened upon her in a manner extremely uncomfortable for
the person gazed at.

As Rachel didn't know in the least what "refreshment" meant, she stared on,
without a word. And Miss Parrott, pulling with more vigor than was her
wont, a long red worsted cord that hung down by the piano, a stately butler
made his appearance quicker than usual, took his directions from his
mistress, and after regarding the small figure perched on one of the
ancestral Parrott chairs with extreme disfavor, he silently withdrew.

Presently, in he came, his head well thrown back, and bearing a huge silver
tray. On it were a decanter, two little queer-shaped glasses, and a plate
of very thin seed cakes. He deposited this on a spindle-legged table, which
he drew up in front of his mistress, and, with another glance, which he
intended to be very withering, cast upon Rachel, but which she didn't see
at all, he departed.

"Now, my dear," said Miss Parrott, in a lighter tone, feeling quite in her
element while serving refreshments in such an elegant way, "you must be
very hungry." She poured out a glassful from the decanter, and getting out
of her chair, she took up the plate of seed cakes, and advanced to the
small figure. "Here, child."

Rachel took the little queer-shaped glass, but had no sooner felt it within
her hand, than she gave a loud scream.

"Take it away, it smells just like Gran"--pushing it from her.

It knocked against the plate of seed cakes Miss Parrott was proffering, and
together they fell to the floor with a crash. In hurried the butler.

"I don't know what can be the matter," Miss Parrott was gasping, her hand
on her heart, as she leaned against one of the ancient cabinets of which
the apartment seemed to be full.

"It smells just like Gran," Rachel was repeating, with flashing eyes. "Oh,
how dare you give it to me!" She was standing over the wreck of the
priceless china and glass, which, as no such accidents had been recorded in
the family, Miss Parrott had continued to use in the entertainment of her
guests.

"You bad child, you!" exclaimed the butler, seizing her arm, and gone
almost out of his senses at the sight of the ruin of such ancient
treasures.

"I'm not bad," cried Rachel, turning on him and stamping her foot; "she's
bad--that woman there--for giving me what smells just like Gran!"

"I can't make her out," declared the butler, eyeing her as he released her
arm and stepped back toward his mistress.

"And that's what makes people drunk," went on Rachel, pointing an angry
finger at the wet spot where the liquid from the decanter was slowly oozing
into the velvet carpet.

The butler turned an outraged countenance, on which a dull red was
spreading, over to his mistress.

"You would better go out, Hooper," said Miss Parrott faintly, and holding
fast to the cabinet.

"I'm afraid to leave you, madam," said Hooper; "she ain't fit--that
creature"--pointing to Rachel, "to be here; she may fly at you. I'll put
her out at once."

"You may leave the apartment, Hooper," said Miss Parrott, regaining some of
her dignity by a mighty effort. "I'm not in the least afraid." But her
looks belied her words, or at any rate the old serving-man thought so, and
he made bold to remonstrate again.

"Let me put her out, madam," he begged. "I'll call the gardeners."

"Oh, no, no!" protested Miss Parrott, coming rapidly to her self-composure;
"that would never do in all the world. Leave the room, Hooper." This last
was said so exactly like his mistress at her best, that the butler obeyed
it, making a wide circuit as he passed Rachel, who still stood, the picture
of wrath, over the broken china and glass.

Not a word was said for some minutes. Outside, Polly, the old parrot, was
scolding vociferously, and the tall clock was ticking away for clear life.
Hooper, his ear first, and then his eye, glued to the keyhole, was vainly
endeavoring to find out what was passing in the sitting-room.

At last Rachel drew a long breath. "I'm sorry I broke your things," and she
awkwardly pushed the bits with her shoe,

"Oh, that's no matter," said Miss Parrott, feeling astonished at herself
for the words, "but you said such dreadful things. I can never forget
that." She drew a long breath.

No matter that she broke those beautiful things! The whole truth flashed
upon Rachel, and although the smell of the hated stuff was even yet
dragging back to her all the memory of her low condition of life through
such childhood as she had known, over and above it all was quickly rising
the conviction that for this unpardonable misdemeanor she would be sent
back to the city and--awful thought!--perhaps to Gran. She set her teeth
together hard, and clenched her thin hands as they hung by her side.

"Yes. I say it is no matter," repeated Miss Parrott, not suffering herself
to glance at the wreck of her ancestral treasures, "but oh, child! why did
you say such dreadful things?" She still clung to the cabinet, shocked out
of one tradition of her family, as if she must still hold to its time-worn
and honored furnishings.

So if you will accept the offer of my car, which is a shameful one but
travels well, we can continue our journey."

Long, long afterward, Sara Lee found a snapshot of Henri's car, taken by
a light-hearted British officer. Found it and sat for a long time with it
in her hand, thinking and remembering that first day she saw it,
in the sun at Calais.

A long low car it was, once green, but now roughly painted gray. But it
was not the crude painting, significant as it was, that brought
so close the thing she was going to.

It was that the car was but a shell of a car. The mud guards were crumpled
up against the side. Body and hood were pitted with shrapnel. A door
had been shot away, and the wind shield was but a frame set round
with broken glass.

Even the soldier-chauffeur wore a patch over one eye, and his uniform was
ragged.

"Not a beautiful car, mademoiselle, as I warned you! But a fast one!"
Henri was having a double enjoyment.

He was watching Sara Lee's face and his chauffeur's remaining eye.

"But fast; eh, Jean?"

he said to the chauffeur. The man nodded and said something in French.
It was probably the thing Henri had hoped for, and he threw back
his head and laughed.

"Jean is reminding me," he said gayly, "that it is forbidden to officers
to take a lady along the road that we shall travel." But when he saw how
Sara Lee flushed he turned to the man.

"Mademoiselle has come from America to help us, Jean," he said
quietly.
"And now for Dunkirk."But Rachel still shivered. There were the broken bits of china and glass on
the floor back of her, and the minister and his wife must be told of the
awful accident; and what they would do with her, why, of course, no one
could tell.

The thin, wrinkled fingers on which blazed many rings, that had been her
mother's before her, were tremblingly smoothing Rachel's neatly braided
hair. And as if she thought what was passing beneath them, Miss Parrott
broke out quickly:

"I shall never speak of it--of the breaking of those articles, child; so no
one will know it but ourselves."

"Never tell?" gasped Rachel, lifting her head, in astonishment and scarcely
believing her ears.

"Of course not," declared Miss Parrott, in scorn. "So do not be afraid any
longer, but get up and dry your eyes." For at this announcement, Rachel's
tears had gushed out, and she sobbed as if her heart would break.

For answer Rachel flew to her feet, and without any warning and astonishing
herself equally with the recipient, she threw her arms around Miss
Parrott's thin neck, in among all the ancient laces with which she
delighted to adorn it, and hugged it convulsively.

Taken unawares, Miss Parrott could utter no word, and Rachel clung to her
and sobbed. But the old ears had heard what hadn't been sounded in them for
many a long day, and forgotten were wasted heirlooms and broken treasures.

"I love you!" Rachel had said, hugging her tumultuously.


XXIII

THE OLD PARROTT HOMESTEAD


"Come, child." Miss Parrott drew herself out of Rachel's clinging arms.

What should she do now to divert this little girl from her terror and
distress? She was sorely put to it for the answer. She gathered up the
nervous hands in one of her own, and led the way out into the wide hall,
hung with ancestral portraits. "I am going to take you to my own room," she
said suddenly.

Rachel didn't know the wonderful condescension of this plan for her
amusement, but she clung to the long, thin fingers, and presently she was
seated on a cricket covered with tambour work, and watching Miss Parrott's
movements about the spacious apartment.

"Move your cricket over here, child." Miss Parrott was unlocking what
looked to Rachel's eyes like a big cupboard that stood out from the wall.
It had little panes of glass all criss-crossed with strips of white wood
across its face, and a set of drawers beneath. "The girl's gone, and the
children have whooping cough. She'd like me to come right away."
"To do the maid's work!" said Sara Lee indignantly. "You mustn't do it, that's
all! She can get somebody."

But Aunt Harriet was firm. She was not a fair-weather friend, and since
Jennie was good enough to offer her a home she felt she ought to go
at once.

"You'll have to get married right away," she finished.

"Goodness knows it's time enough!

For two years Harvey has been barking like a watchdog in front of the
house and keeping every other young man away."
Sara Lee smiled.

"He's only been lying on the doormat, Aunt Harriet," she observed. "I don't
believe he knows how to bark."

"Oh, he's mild enough. He may change after marriage. Some do. But," she
added hastily, "he'll be a good husband. He's that sort."
Suddenly something that had been taking shape in Sara Lee's small
head, quite unknown to her, developed identity and speech.

"But I'm not going to marry him just yet," she said.

Aunt Harriet's eyes fell on the photograph with its face to the wall,
and she started.

"You haven't quarreled with him, have you?"

"No, of course not! I have something else I want to do first. That's
all.

Aunt Harriet, I want to go to France."
Aunt Harriet began to tremble, and Sara Lee went over and put her
young arms about her.

"Don't look like that," she said.

"It's only for a little while. I've got to go. I just have to, that's
all!"

"Go how?" demanded Aunt Harriet.

"I don't know. I'll find some way. I've had a letter from Mabel.
Things are awful over there."
"And how will you help them?" Her face worked nervously.

"Is it going to help for you to be shot? Or carried off by the Germans?"
The atrocity stories were all that Aunt Harriet knew of the war,
and all she could think of now.

"You'll come back with your hands cut off."
Sara Lee straightened and looked out where between the white curtains
the spire of the Methodist Church marked the east.

"I'm going," she said. And she stood there, already poised for flight.

There was no sleep in the little house that night.

Sara Lee could hear the older woman moving about in her lonely bed, where
the spring still sagged from Uncle James' heavy form, and at last
she went in and crept in beside her. Toward morning Aunt Harriet
slept, with the girl's arm across her; and then Sara Lee went back
to her room and tried to plan.
She had a little money, and she had heard that living was cheap
abroad.
She could get across then, and perhaps keep herself.She isn't a
bit like yours."

"Well, Priscilla was always pretty to me," said Miss Parrott, astonished
that she felt so little the slight to her child. "Well, now, Rachel, we
will put the doll aside. You may lay it on the bed and then come back
here."

Rachel got off from her cricket and went over to the other side of the
apartment.

"My, what a funny bed!" she exclaimed, using her eyes to their utmost to
see as much of the canopy, with its tester of blue and white chintz, the
four posts beneath, and the counterpane executed in honeycomb pattern.

Miss Parrott, exploring her cupboard to get out something else with which
to entertain Rachel, did not hear her; so she slowly returned, walking
backward to observe as much of this queer article of furniture as the time
allowed. In this way she fell over the cricket.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Miss Parrott, pulling her head out of the cupboard,
"did you hurt yourself, child?"

"No'm," said Rachel, getting up with a very red face, and exceedingly
ashamed. "I don't believe I broke it." She set the cricket up in its proper
position and anxiously examined it all over.

"Oh, no," said Miss Parrott reassuringly, "the cricket is not harmed. See
here, Rachel"--she held in her hand a long string of little irregular
things that dangled as she turned toward her--"I am going to put these on
your neck. Now stand still, child." And suiting the action to the words,
something snapped with a little click under Rachel's chin.

Rachel looked down quickly at the queer little odd-shaped red things,
hanging over her breast.

"I used to wear them when I was a little girl, very much smaller than you,"
said Miss Parrott, her head on one side and falling back to see the effect.

"What are they?" asked Rachel, not daring to lay a finger on them, and
holding her breath at the idea of being within the magnificent circle of
Miss Parrott's early adornments.

"Red coral beads," said Miss Parrott, smiling at the nice contrast between
the necklace and the dark little face above. "Now, child, you are going to
wear them whenever you come to visit me and as long as you stay. And that
means they will not come off till to-morrow, for you are to sleep here
to-night."

"I haven't any nightgown," said Rachel, who by this time liked to stay well
enough, but seeing here an insuperable objection.

"That's easily managed," said Miss Parrott, quickly; "I shall send a note
to the parsonage, saying you will stay, and----"

At the mention of "note" Rachel suddenly collapsed, and a look of terror
spread over her face.

"Oh, I forgot," she cried.

"Why, what is the matter, child?" demanded Miss Parrott, in great concern.

"I must go and get it," said Rachel wildly, and, dashing blindly off, she
left Miss Parrott standing in front of her ancestral cupboard holding her
childish treasures, to rush over the long and winding back stairs. At their
end she found herself hopelessly entangled in an array of back passages and
little old-fashioned apartments, from which, run as she would, she could
never seem to find the right exit.

Her progress was noted with indignation and contempt by as many of the old
retainers in the Parrott service as could be gathered at short notice, and
their calls to her to leave the premises, accompanied by sundry shakings of
a long crash towel in the hands of the cook, only impeded Rachel's hope of
success.

Even Christian men sometimes fail in courtesy, deeming it a mark of
weakness, or neglecting it from mere thoughtlessness. Yet when we find
this added to the other virtues of the Christian, it will be noted
that his influence for good upon others has been powerfully increased,
for it was by this that he obtained access to the hearts of others.

An old English writer said reverently of our Saviour: "He was the first
true gentleman that ever lived."
"Oh, I've lost the note--I mean, I forgot it." Rachel flew to her and
wailed it all out.

