Produced by David Widger, Dagny, and John Bickers


                            DOCTOR PASCAL

                                  BY

                              EMILE ZOLA


                            TRANSLATED BY

                           MARY J. SERRANO


                                  I.

In the heat of the glowing July afternoon, the room, with blinds
carefully closed, was full of a great calm. From the three windows,
through the cracks of the old wooden shutters, came only a few
scattered sunbeams which, in the midst of the obscurity, made a soft
brightness that bathed surrounding objects in a diffused and tender
light. It was cool here in comparison with the overpowering heat that
was felt outside, under the fierce rays of the sun that blazed upon
the front of the house.

Standing before the press which faced the windows, Dr. Pascal was
looking for a paper that he had come in search of. With doors wide
open, this immense press of carved oak, adorned with strong and
handsome mountings of metal, dating from the last century, displayed
within its capacious depths an extraordinary collection of papers and
manuscripts of all sorts, piled up in confusion and filling every
shelf to overflowing. For more than thirty years the doctor had thrown
into it every page he wrote, from brief notes to the complete texts of
his great works on heredity. Thus it was that his searches here were
not always easy. He rummaged patiently among the papers, and when he
at last found the one he was looking for, he smiled.

For an instant longer he remained near the bookcase, reading the note
by a golden sunbeam that came to him from the middle window. He
himself, in this dawnlike light, appeared, with his snow-white hair
and beard, strong and vigorous; although he was near sixty, his color
was so fresh, his features were so finely cut, his eyes were still so
clear, and he had so youthful an air that one might have taken him, in
his close-fitting, maroon velvet jacket, for a young man with powdered
hair.

"Here, Clotilde," he said at last, "you will copy this note. Ramond
would never be able to decipher my diabolical writing."

And he crossed the room and laid the paper beside the young girl, who
stood working at a high desk in the embrasure of the window to the
right.

"Very well, master," she answered.

She did not even turn round, so engrossed was her attention with the
pastel which she was at the moment rapidly sketching in with broad
strokes of the crayon. Near her in a vase bloomed a stalk of
hollyhocks of a singular shade of violet, striped with yellow. But the
profile of her small round head, with its short, fair hair, was
clearly distinguishable; an exquisite and serious profile, the
straight forehead contracted in a frown of attention, the eyes of an
azure blue, the nose delicately molded, the chin firm. Her bent neck,
especially, of a milky whiteness, looked adorably youthful under the
gold of the clustering curls. In her long black blouse she seemed very
tall, with her slight figure, slender throat, and flexible form, the
flexible slenderness of the divine figures of the Renaissance. In
spite of her twenty-five years, she still retained a childlike air and
looked hardly eighteen.

"And," resumed the doctor, "you will arrange the press a little.
Nothing can be found there any longer."

"Very well, master," she repeated, without raising her head;
"presently."

Pascal had turned round to seat himself at his desk, at the other end
of the room, before the window to the left. It was a plain black
wooden table, and was littered also with papers and pamphlets of all
sorts. And silence again reigned in the peaceful semi-obscurity,
contrasting with the overpowering glare outside. The vast apartment, a
dozen meters long and six wide, had, in addition to the press, only
two bookcases, filled with books. Antique chairs of various kinds
stood around in disorder, while for sole adornment, along the walls,
hung with an old _salon_ Empire paper of a rose pattern, were nailed
pastels of flowers of strange coloring dimly visible. The woodwork of
three folding-doors, the door opening on the hall and two others at
opposite ends of the apartment, the one leading to the doctor's room,
the other to that of the young girl, as well as the cornice of the
smoke-darkened ceiling, dated from the time of Louis XV.

An hour passed without a sound, without a breath. Then Pascal, who, as
a diversion from his work, had opened a newspaper--_Le Temps_--which
had lain forgotten on the table, uttered a slight exclamation:

"Why! your father has been appointed editor of the _Epoque_, the
prosperous republican journal which has the publishing of the papers
of the Tuileries."

This news must have been unexpected by him, for he laughed frankly, at
once pleased and saddened, and in an undertone he continued:

"My word! If things had been invented, they could not have been finer.
Life is a strange thing. This is a very interesting article."

Clotilde made no answer, as if her thoughts were a hundred leagues
away from what her uncle was saying. And he did not speak again, but
taking his scissors after he had read the article, he cut it out and
pasted it on a sheet of paper, on which he made some marginal notes in
his large, irregular handwriting. Then he went back to the press to
classify this new document in it. But he was obliged to take a chair,
the shelf being so high that he could not reach it notwithstanding his
tall stature.

On this high shelf a whole series of enormous bundles of papers were
arranged in order, methodically classified. Here were papers of all
sorts: sheets of manuscript, documents on stamped paper, articles cut
out of newspapers, arranged in envelopes of strong blue paper, each of
which bore on the outside a name written in large characters. One felt
that these documents were tenderly kept in view, taken out
continually, and carefully replaced; for of the whole press, this
corner was the only one kept in order.

When Pascal, mounted on the chair, had found the package he was
looking for, one of the bulkiest of the envelopes, on which was
written the name "Saccard," he added to it the new document, and then
replaced the whole under its corresponding alphabetical letter. A
moment later he had forgotten the subject, and was complacently
straightening a pile of papers that were falling down. And when he at
last jumped down off the chair, he said:

"When you are arranging the press, Clotilde, don't touch the packages
at the top; do you hear?"

"Very well, master," she responded, for the third time, docilely.

He laughed again, with the gaiety that was natural to him.

"That is forbidden."

"I know it, master."

And he closed the press with a vigorous turn of the key, which he then
threw into a drawer of his writing table. The young girl was
sufficiently acquainted with his researches to keep his manuscripts in
some degree of order; and he gladly employed her as his secretary; he
made her copy his notes when some _confrere_ and friend, like Dr.
Ramond asked him to send him some document. But she was not a
_savante_; he simply forbade her to read what he deemed it useless
that she should know.

At last, perceiving her so completely absorbed in her work, his
attention was aroused.

He had rights, which he never in the course of his childhood had been
granted. He could say, without immediate reference to peace, even
vorlaute all kinds of requests, which he previously had been taken
ill.

And it was not surprising that in him the deceptive feeling luxuriantly
grew rampant that he was an adult. Already, the light in his childhood
dreams behind him, like a discarded, grow dress. Lunches sat the Baron,
the invitation by the always friendly mother Edgars below, at their
table. From the = opposite = was a juxtaposition has made the
acquaintance of a friend. The trio was in progress, and the three
voices of the woman, the man and the child inside sounded together.
Attack Now it seemed impatient hunters at the time, his wild
anzuschleichen. The family of three in this matter mißfiel him.

It was quite nice, so talk to a threesome, but finally, talking was
not his intention.

And he knew that the company with the mask of his game the erotic desire
between husband and wife always retarded, said the blaze, the fire
will be addressed.

You should have the conversation never forget his real intention, which
he - which he was sure - she already knew understood. The fact that his
efforts in this woman would not be in vain, had a lot of probabilities.

It was in those crucial years when a woman begins to regret it, one
never really beloved husband remained faithful to be and where the
purple sunset its beauty you have one last urgent choice between
the maternal and the feminine granted.

The life that seemed long enough, this once a minute on the issue, for
the last time the magnetic needle trembles of will between the hope
of erotic experience and ultimate resignation. A woman then has the
dangerous decision to their own fate or their children to
live, wife or mother. And the Baron, sighted in these things,
you just believed in this dangerous vacillation between Lebensglut
and dedication to notice.

To-day, on a groundwork dashed in with a few bold strokes of black
crayon, it was a rain of pale stars, a whole shower of infinitely soft
petals; while, in a corner, an unknown bloom, a bud, chastely veiled,
was opening.

"Another to nail there!" resumed the doctor, pointing to the wall, on
which there was already a row of strangely curious pastels. "But what
may that represent, I ask you?"

She remained very grave, drawing back a step, the better to
contemplate her work.

"I know nothing about it; it is beautiful."

At this moment appeared Martine, the only servant, become the real
mistress of the house, after nearly thirty years of service with the
doctor. Although she had passed her sixtieth year, she, too, still
retained a youthful air as she went about, silent and active, in her
eternal black gown and white cap that gave her the look of a nun, with
her small, white, calm face, and lusterless eyes, the light in which
seemed to have been extinguished.

Without speaking, she went and sat down on the floor before an
easy-chair, through a rent in the old covering of which the hair was
escaping, and drawing from her pocket a needle and a skein of worsted,
she set to work to mend it. For three days past she had been waiting
for an hour's time to do this piece of mending, which haunted her.

"While you are about it, Martine," said Pascal jestingly, taking
between both his hands the mutinous head of Clotilde, "sew me fast,
too, this little noodle, which sometimes wanders off into the clouds."

Martine raised her pale eyes, and looked at her master with her
habitual air of adoration?"

"Why does monsieur say that?"

"Because, my good girl, in very truth, I believe it is you who have
stuffed this good little round, clear, strong headpiece full of
notions of the other world, with all your devoutness."

The two women exchanged a glance of intelligence.

"Oh, monsieur! religion has never done any harm to any one. And when
people have not the same ideas, it is certainly better not to talk
about them."

An embarrassed silence followed; this was the one difference of
opinion which, at times, brought about disagreements among these three
united beings who led so restricted a life. Martine was only
twenty-nine, a year older than the doctor, when she entered his house,
at the time when he made his _debut_ as a physician at Plassans, in a
bright little house of the new town. And thirteen years later, when
Saccard, a brother of Pascal, sent him his daughter Clotilde, aged
seven, after his wife's death and at the moment when he was about to
marry again, it was she who brought up the child, taking it to church,
and communicating to it a little of the devout flame with which she
had always burned; while the doctor, who had a broad mind, left them
to their joy of believing, for he did not feel that he had the right
to interdict to any one the happiness of faith; he contented himself
later on with watching over the young girl's education and giving her
clear and sound ideas about everything. For thirteen years, during
which the three had lived this retired life at La Souleiade, a small
property situated in the outskirts of the town, a quarter of an hour's
walk from St. Saturnin, the cathedral, his life had flowed happily
along, occupied in secret great works, a little troubled, however, by
an ever increasing uneasiness--the collision, more and more violent,
every day, between their beliefs.

Pascal took a few turns gloomily up and down the room. Then, like a
man who did not mince his words, he said:

"See, my dear, all this phantasmagoria of mystery has turned your
pretty head. Your good God had no need of you; I should have kept you
for myself alone; and you would have been all the better for it."

But Clotilde, trembling with excitement, her clear eyes fixed boldly
upon his, held her ground.

"It is you, master, who would be all the better, if you did not shut
yourself up in your eyes of flesh. That is another thing, why do you
not wish to see?"

And Martine came to her assistance, in her own style.

"Indeed, it is true, monsieur, that you, who are a saint, as I say
everywhere, should accompany us to church. Assuredly, God will save
you. But at the bare idea that you should not go straight to paradise,
I tremble all over."

He paused, for he had before him, in open revolt, those two whom he
had been accustomed to see submissive at his feet, with the tenderness
of women won over by his gaiety and his goodness. Already he opened
his mouth, and was going to answer roughly, when the uselessness of
the discussion became apparent to him.

"There! Let us have peace. I would do better to go and work. And above
all, let no one interrupt me!"

With hasty steps he gained his chamber, where he had installed a sort
of laboratory, and shut himself up in it. The prohibition to enter it
was formal. It was here that he gave himself up to special
preparations, of which he spoke to no one. Almost immediately the slow
and regular sound of a pestle grinding in a mortar was heard.

"Come," said Clotilde, smiling, "there he is, at his devil's cookery,
as grandmother says."

And she tranquilly resumed her copying of the hollyhocks. She
completed the drawing with mathematical precision, she found the exact
tone of the violet petals, striped with yellow, even to the most
delicate discoloration of the shades.

"Ah!" murmured Martine, after a moment, again seated on the ground,
and occupied in mending the chair, "what a misfortune for a good man
like that to lose his soul wilfully. For there is no denying it; I
have known him now for thirty years, and in all that time he has never
so much as spoken an unkind word to any one. A real heart of gold, who
would take the bit from his own mouth. And handsome, too, and always
well, and always gay, a real blessing! It is a murder that he does not
wish to make his peace with the good God. We will force him to do it,
mademoiselle, will we not?"

Clotilde, surprised at hearing her speak so long at one time on the
subject, gave her word with a grave air.

"Certainly, Martine, it is a promise. We will force him."

Silence reigned again, broken a moment afterward by the ringing of the
bell attached to the street door below. It had been attached to the
door so that they might have notice when any one entered the house,
too vast for the three persons who inhabited it. The servant appeared
surprised, and grumbled a few words under her breath. Who could have
come in such heat as this? She rose, opened the door, and went and
leaned over the balustrade; then she returned, saying:

"It is Mme. Felicite."

Old Mme. Rougon entered briskly. In spite of her eighty years, she had
mounted the stairs with the activity of a young girl; she was still
the brown, lean, shrill grasshopper of old. Dressed elegantly now in
black silk, she might still be taken, seen from behind, thanks to the
slenderness of her figure, for some coquette, or some ambitious woman
following her favorite pursuit. Seen in front, her eyes still lighted
up her withered visage with their fires, and she smiled with an
engaging smile when she so desired.

"What! is it you, grandmother?" cried Clotilde, going to meet her.
"Why, this sun is enough to bake one."

Felicite, kissing her on the forehead, laughed, saying:

"Oh, the sun is my friend!"

Then, moving with short, quick steps, she crossed the room, and turned
the fastening of one of the shutters.

"Open the shutters a little! It is too gloomy to live in the dark in
this way. At my house I let the sun come in."

Through the opening a jet of hot light, a flood of dancing sparks
entered. And under the sky, of the violet blue of a conflagration, the
parched plain could be seen, stretching away in the distance, as if
asleep or dead in the overpowering, furnace-like heat, while to the
right, above the pink roofs, rose the belfry of St. Saturnin, a gilded
tower with arises that, in the blinding light, looked like whitened
bones.

"Yes," continued Felicite, "I think of going shortly to the Tulettes,
and I wished to know if Charles were here, to take him with me. He is
not here--I see that--I will take him another day."

But while she gave this pretext for her visit, her ferret-like eyes
were making the tour of the apartment. Besides, she did not insist,
speaking immediately afterward of her son Pascal, on hearing the
rhythmical noise of the pestle, which had not ceased in the adjoining
chamber.

"Ah! = "Edgar was pale before the horror. For all children, the
bed-to-be-sent a terrible word because it is the obvious humiliation
in front of the adults is an admission, the stigma of childhood,
the small one, the childish need for sleep.

But how was such a terrible shame in this interesting moment, because
it such outrageous things were missed. "Only one more, Mom, by
the elephants, just let me hear!

