Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Andrea Ball and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


Transcriber's Note: This document is the text of Trial and Triumph. Any
                    bracketed notations such as [?], and those inserting
                    letters or other comments are from the original text.


Transcriber's Note About the Author:
Francis Ellen Watkins Harper (1825-1911) was born to free parents in
Baltimore, Maryland. Orphaned at three, she was raised by her uncle, a
teacher and radical advocate for civil rights. She attended the Academy
for Negro Youth and was educated as a teacher. She became a professional
lecturer, activist, suffragette, poet, essayist, novelist, and the author
of the first published short story written by an African-American. Her
work spanned more than sixty years.


TRIAL AND TRIUMPH

A Rediscovered Novel by

Frances E.W. Harper

Edited by Frances Smith Foster


Chapter I


"Oh, that child! She is the very torment of my life. I have been the
mother of six children, and all of them put together, never gave me as
much trouble as that girl. I don't know what will ever become of her."

"What is the matter now, Aunt Susan? What has Annette been doing?"

"Doing! She is always doing something; everlastingly getting herself
into trouble with some of the neighbors. She is the most mischievous and
hard-headed child I ever saw."

"Well what has she been doing this morning which has so upset you?"

"Why, I sent her to the grocery to have the oil can filled, and after
she came back she had not been in the house five minutes before there
came such an uproar from Mrs. Larkins', my next door neighbor, that I
thought her house was on fire, but----"

"Instead of that her tongue was on fire, and I know what that means."

"Yes, that's just it, and I don't wonder. That little minx sitting up
there in the corner looking so innocent, stopped to pour oil on her
clean steps. Now you know yourself what an aggravating thing that must
have been."

"Yes, it must have been, especially as Mrs. Larkins is such a nice
housekeeper and takes such pride in having everything neat and nice
about her. How did you fix up matters with her."

"I have not fixed them up at all. Mrs. Larkins only knows one cure for
bad children, and that is beating them, and she always blames me for
spoiling Annette, but I hardly know what to do with her. CH. Who then
is the pilot of necessity?

PR. The triform Fates and the remembering Furies.

CH. Is Jupiter then less powerful than these?

PR. Most certainly he can not at any rate escape his doom.[43]
CH. Why, what is doomed for Jupiter but to reign for evermore?

PR. This thou mayest not yet learn, and do not press it.

CH. 'Tis surely some solemn mystery that thou veilest.

PR. Make mention of some other matter; it is by no means seasonable
to proclaim this; but it must be shrouded in deepest concealment;
for it is by keeping this secret that I am to escape from my
ignominious shackles and miseries.

CH. Never may Jupiter, who directs all things, set his might in opposition
to my purpose: nor may I be backward in attending upon the gods at their
hallowed banquets, at which oxen are sacrificed, beside the restless
stream of my sire Ocean; and may I not trespass in my words; but may
this feeling abide by me and never melt away. Sweet it is to pass through
a long life in confident hopes, making the spirits swell with bright
merriment; but I shudder as I behold thee harrowed by agonies
incalculable....

For not standing in awe of Jupiter, thou, Prometheus, in thy self-will
honorest mortals to excess. Come, my friend, own how boonless was the
boon; say where is any aid? What relief can come from the creatures
of a day? Sawest thou not the powerless weakness, nought better than a
dream, in which the blind race of men is entangled?

Never shall at any time the schemes of mortals evade the harmonious
system of Jupiter.

This I learned by witnessing thy destructive fate, Prometheus. And
far different is this strain that now flits toward me from the hymenæal
chant which I raised around the baths and thy couch with the consent[44]
of nuptials, when, after having won Hesione with thy love-tokens,
thou didst conduct her our sister to be thy bride, the sharer of
thy bed.

_Enter_ IO.[45]
What land is this? what race? whom shall I say I here behold storm-tossed
in rocky fetters? Of what trespass is the retribution destroying thee?
Declare to me into what part of earth I forlorn have roamed. Ah me! alas!
alas!

again the hornet[46] stings me miserable: O earth avert[47] the goblin of
earth-born Argus:[48] I am terrified at the sight of the neatherd of
thousand eyes, for he is journeying on, keeping a cunning glance, whom
not even after death does earth conceal; but issuing forth from among
the departed he chases me miserable, and he makes me to wander famished
along the shingled strand, while the sounding wax-compacted pipe
drones on a sleepy strain. Oh! oh! ye powers! Oh! powers! whither do
my far-roaming wanderings convey me?

In what, in what, O son of Saturn, hast thou, having found me transgressing,
shackled me in these pangs? Ah! ah! and art thus wearing out a timorous
wretch frenzied with sting-driven fear. Burn me with fire, or bury me
in earth, or give me for food to the monsters of the deep, and grudge
me not these prayers, O king! Amply have my much-traversed wanderings
harassed me; nor can I discover how I may avoid pain. Hearest thou the
address of the ox-horned maiden?

PR. How can I fail to hear the damsel that is frenzy-driven by the
hornet, the daughter of Inachus, who warms the heart of Jupiter
with love, and now, abhorred of Juno, is driven perforce courses
of exceeding length?

IO. From whence utterest thou the name of my father? Tell me, the
woe-begone, who thou art, who, I say, O hapless one, that hast thus
correctly accosted me miserable, and hast named the heaven-inflicted
disorder which wastes me, fretting with its maddening stings? Ah!
ah!

violently driven by the famishing tortures of my boundings have I come a
victim to the wrathful counsels of Juno. And of the ill-fated who are
there, ah me! that endure woes such as mine?

But do thou clearly define to me what remains for me to suffer, what
salve:[49] what remedy there is for my malady, discover to me, if at all
thou knowest: speak, tell it to the wretched roaming damsel.

PR. I will tell thee clearly every thing which thou desirest to learn,
not interweaving riddles, but in plain language, as it is right to open
the mouth to friends. Thou seest him that bestowed fire on mortals,
Prometheus.

IO. O thou that didst dawn a common benefit upon mortals, wretched
Prometheus, as penance for what offense art thou thus suffering?

PR. I have just ceased lamenting my own pangs.

IO.

Wilt thou not then accord to me this boon?

PR. Say what it is that thou art asking, for thou mightest learn
everything from me.

IO. Say who it was that bound thee fast in this cleft?

PR. The decree of Jupiter, but the hand of Vulcan.

IO. And for what offenses art thou paying the penalty?

PR. Thus much alone is all that I can clearly explain to thee.

IO. At least, in addition to this, discover what time shall be to me
woe-worn the limit of my wanderings.

PR. Not to learn this is better for thee than to learn it.

IO. Yet conceal not from me what I am to endure.

PR. Nay, I grudge thee not this gift.

IO. Why then delayest thou to utter the whole?

PR. 'Tis not reluctance, but I am loth to shock thy feelings.

IO. Do not be more anxious on my account than is agreeable to me.[50]

PR. Since thou art eager, I must needs tell thee: attend thou.

CH. Not yet, however; but grant me also a share of the pleasure.

Let us first learn the malady of this maiden, from her own tale of
her destructive[51] fortunes; but, for the sequel of her afflictions
let her be informed by thee.

PR. It is thy part, Io, to minister to the gratification of these now
before thee, both for all other reasons, and that they are the
sisters of thy father.

Since to weep and lament over misfortunes, when one is sure to win a
tear from the listeners, is well worth the while.

IO. I know not how I should disobey you; and in a plain tale ye shall
learn everything that ye desire; and yet I am pained even to speak of
the tempest that hath been sent upon me from heaven, and the utter
marring of my person, whence it suddenly came upon me, a wretched
creature!

For nightly visions thronging to my maiden chamber, would entice
me with smooth words: "O damsel, greatly fortunate, why dost thou
live long time in maidenhood, when it is in thy power to achieve a
match the very noblest?

for Jupiter is fired by thy charms with the shaft of passion, and longs
with thee to share in love. But do not, my child, spurn away from
thee the couch of Jupiter; but go forth to Lerna's fertile mead, to the
folds and ox-stalls of thy father, that the eye of Jove may have respite
from its longing." By dreams such as these was I unhappy beset every
night, until at length I made bold to tell my sire of the dreams
that haunted me by night.

And he dispatched both to Pytho and Dodona[52] many a messenger to consult
the oracles, that he might learn what it behooved him to do or say, so
as to perform what was well-pleasing to the divinities. And they
came bringing a report back of oracles ambiguously worded, indistinct,
and obscurely delivered. But at last a clear response came to Inachus,
plainly charging and directing him to thrust me forth both from my
home and my country, to stray an outcast to earth's remotest limits;
and that, if he would not, a fiery-visaged thunder-bolt would come from
Jupiter, and utterly blot out his whole race. Overcome by oracles of
Loxias such as these, unwilling did me expel and exclude me unwilling
from his dwelling: but the bit of Jupiter[53] perforce constrained
him to do this. And straightway my person and my mind were
distorted, and horned, as ye see, stung by the keenly-biting fly, I
rushed with maniac boundings to the sweet stream of Cerchneia, and the
fountain[54] of Lerna; and the earth-born neatherd Argus of untempered
fierceness, kept dogging me, peering after my footsteps with thick-set
eyes. Him, however, an unlooked-for sudden fate bereaved of life; but I
hornet-stricken am driven by the scourge divine from land to land. Thou
hearest what has taken place, and if thou art able to say what pangs
there remain for me, declare them; and do not, compassionating me, warm
me with false tales, for I pronounce fabricated statements to be
a most foul malady.

CH. Ah! ah! forbear! Alas! Never, never did I expect that a tale [so]
strange would come to my ears, or that sufferings thus horrible to
witness and horrible to endure, outrages, terrors with their two-edged
goad, would chill my spirit. Alas! alas! O Fate! Fate! I shudder as
I behold the condition of Io.

PR. Prematurely, however, are thou sighing, and art full of terror.
Hold, until thou shalt also have heard the residue.

CH. Say on; inform me fully: to the sick indeed it is sweet to get a clear
knowledge beforehand of the sequel of their sorrows.

PR. Your former desire at any rate ye gained from me easily; for first
of all ye desired to be informed by her recital of the affliction[55]
that attaches to herself. Now give ear to the rest, what sort of
sufferings it is the fate of this young damsel before you to undergo
at the hand of Juno: thou too, seed of Inachus, lay to heart my words,
that thou mayest be fully informed of the termination of thy journey.
In the first place, after turning thyself from this spot toward
the rising of the sun, traverse unplowed fields; and thou wilt reach
the wandering Scythians, who, raised from off the around, inhabit
wicker dwellings on well-wheeled cars, equipped with distant-shooting
bows; to whom thou must not draw near, but pass on out of their
land, bringing thy feet to approach the rugged roaring shores.

And on thy left hand dwell the Chalybes, workers of iron, of whom thou
must needs beware, for they are barbarous, and not accessible to
strangers. And thou wilt come to the river Hybristes,[56] not falsely so
called, which do not thou cross, for it is not easy to ford, until thou
shalt have come to Caucasus itself, loftiest of mountains, where from
its very brow the river spouts forth its might. And surmounting its
peaks that neighbor on the stars, thou must go into a southward track,
where thou wilt come to the man-detesting host of Amazons, who hereafter
shall make a settlement, Themiscyra, on the banks of Thermodon, where
lies the rugged Salmydessian sea-gorge, a host by mariners hated, a
step-dame to ships; and they will conduct thee on thy way, and that right
willingly. Thou shalt come too to the Cimmerian isthmus, hard by
the very portals of a lake, with narrow passage, which thou undauntedly
must leave, and cross the Mæotic frith; and there shall exist for
evermore among mortals a famous legend concerning thy passage, and
after thy name it shall be called the Bosphorus; and after having quitted
European ground, thou shalt come to the Asiatic continent. Does not
then the sovereign of the gods seem to you to be violent alike toward
all things? for he a god lusting to enjoy the charms of this mortal
fair one, hath cast upon her these wanderings. And a bitter wooer,
maiden, hast thou found for thy hand; for think that the words which
thou hast now heard are not even for a prelude.

IO. Woe is me! ah! ah!

PR. Thou too in thy turn[57] art crying out and moaning: what wilt
thou do then, when thou learnest the residue of thy ills?

CH. What! hast thou aught of suffering left to tell to her?

PR. Ay, a tempestuous sea of baleful calamities.

IO. What gain then is it for me to live? but why did I not quickly fling
myself from this rough precipice, that dashing on the plain I had
rid myself of all my pangs? for better is it once to die, than all
one's days to suffer ill.

PR.

Verily thou wouldst hardly bear the agonies of me to whom it is not
doomed to die. For this would be an escape from sufferings. But now
there is no limit set to my hardships, until Jove shall have been
deposed from his tyranny.

IO. What! is it possible that Jupiter should ever fall from his power?

PR. Glad wouldst thou be, I ween, to witness this event.

IO. And how not so, I, who through Jupiter am suffering ill?

PR. Well, then, thou mayest assure thyself of these things that
they are so.

IO. By whom is he to be despoiled of his sceptre of tyranny.

PR. Himself, by his own senseless counsels.

IO. In what manner? Specify it, if there be no harm.

PR. He will make such a match as he shall one day rue.[58]
IO.

Celestial or mortal? If it may be spoken, tell me.

PR.

But why ask its nature? for it is not a matter that I can communicate to
you.

IO. Is it by a consort that he is to be ejected from his throne?

PR. Yes, surely, one that shall give birth to a son mightier than the
father.[59]
IO. And has he no refuge from this misfortune?

PR. Not he, indeed, before at any rate I after being liberated from my
shackles--
IO. Who, then, is he that shall liberate thee in despite of Jupiter?

PR.

It is ordained that it shall be one of thine own descendants.

IO. How sayest thou? Shall child of mine release thee from thy ills?

PR. Yes, the third of thy lineage in addition to ten other generations.[60]

IO. This prophecy of thine is no longer easy for me to form a guess
upon.

PR.

Nor seek thou to know over well thine own pangs.

IO. Do not, after proffering me a benefit, withhold it from me.

PR. I will freely grant thee one of two disclosures.

IO. Explain to me first of what sort they are, and allow me my choice.

PR. I allow it thee; for choose whether I shall clearly tell to thee
the residue of thy troubles, or who it is that is to be my deliverer.

CH. Of these twain do thou vouchsafe to bestow the one boon on this
damsel, and the other on me, and disdain thou not my request. To her tell
the rest of her wanderings, and to me him that is to deliver thee; for
this I long [to hear].

PR. Seeing that ye are eagerly bent upon it, I will not oppose your wishes,
so as not to utter every thing as much as ye desire. To thee in the
first place, Io, will I describe thy mazy wanderings, which do thou
engrave on the recording tablets of thy mind.

When thou shalt have crossed the stream that is the boundary of the
Continents, to the ruddy realms of morn where walks the sun[61] ...
having passed over the roaring swell of the sea, until thou shalt reach
the Gorgonian plains of Cisthene, where dwell the Phorcides, three swan-like
aged damsels, that possess one eye in common, that have but a single
tooth, on whom ne'er doth the sun glance with his rays, nor the nightly
moon. And hard by are three winged sisters of these, the snake-tressed
Gorgons, abhorred of mortals, whom none of human race can look upon and
retain the breath of life.[62] Such is this caution[63] which I mention
to thee. Now lend an ear to another hideous spectacle; for be on thy
guard against the keen-fanged hounds of Jupiter that never bark, the
gryphons, and the cavalry host of one-eyed Arimaspians, who dwell on the
banks of the gold-gushing fount, the stream of Pluto: go not thou nigh
to these. And thou wilt reach a far-distant land, a dark tribe, who
dwell close upon the fountains of the sun, where is the river Æthiops.
Along the banks of this wend thy way, until thou shalt have reached
the cataract where from the Bybline mountains the Nile pours forth his
hallowed, grateful stream. This will guide thee to the triangular land
of the Nile; where at length, Io, it is ordained for thee and thy
children after thee to found the distant colony. And if aught of this
is obscurely uttered, and hard to be understood, question me anew, and
learn it thoroughly and clearly: as for leisure, I have more than I
desire.

CH. If indeed thou hast aught to tell of her baleful wanderings,
that still remains or hath been omitted, say on; but if thou hast told
the whole, give to us in our turn the favor which we ask, and you,
perchance, remember.

PR. She hath heard the full term of her journeying. And that she may
know that she hath not been listening to me in vain, I will relate what
hardships she endured before she came hither, giving her this as
a sure proof of my statements. The very great multitude indeed of
words I shall omit, and I will proceed to the termination itself
of thine aberrations. For after that thou hadst come to the Molossian
plains, and about the lofty ridge of Dodona, where is the oracular
seat of Thesprotian Jove, and a portent passing belief, the speaking
oaks, by which thou wast clearly and without any ambiguity saluted
illustrious spouse of Jove that art to be; if aught of this hath
any charms for thee.[64] Thence madly rushing along the seaside
track, thou didst dart away to the vast bay of Rhea, from which
thou art tempest-driven in retrograde courses: and in time to come,
know well that the gulf of the deep shall be called IO-nian, a
memorial of thy passage to all mortals.
These hast thou as tokens of my intelligence, how that it perceives
somewhat beyond what appears.
The rest I shall tell both to you and to her in common, after
reaching the very identical track of my former narrative. There is
on the land's utmost verge a city Canopus, hard by the Nile's very
mouth and alluvial dike; on this spot Jupiter at length makes thee
sane by merely soothing and touching thee with his unalarming hand.
And named after the progeniture of Jupiter[65] thou shalt give birth
to swarthy Epaphus, who shall reap the harvest of all the land which
the wide-streaming Nile waters. But fifth in descent from him a
generation of fifty virgins shall again come to Argos, not of their
own accord, fleeing from incestuous wedlock with their cousins; and
these with fluttering hearts, like falcons left not far behind by
doves, shall come pursuing marriage such as should not be pursued,
but heaven shall be jealous over their persons;[66] and Pelasgia
shall receive them after being crushed by a deed of night-fenced
daring, wrought by woman's hand; for each bride shall bereave her
respective husband of life, having dyed in their throats[67] a sword
of twin sharp edge. Would that in guise like this Venus might visit
my foes! But tenderness shall soften one[68] of the maidens, so
that she shall not slay the partner of her couch, but shall be blunt
in her resolve; and of the two alternatives she shall choose the
former, to be called a coward rather than a murderess. She in Argos
shall give birth to a race of kings. There needs a long discourse
to detail these things distinctly; but from this seed be sure shall
spring a dauntless warrior renowned in archery, who shall set me
free from these toils. Such predictions did my aged mother the
Titaness Themis rehearse to me; but how and when--to tell this
requires a long detail, and thou in knowing it all wouldst be in
nought a gainer.
IO. Eleleu! Eleleu! Once more the spasm[69] and maddening frenzies
inflame me--and the sting of the hornet, wrought by no fire,[70]
envenoms me; and with panic my heart throbs violently against my
breast.
My eyes, too, are rolling in a mazy whirl, and I am carried out of
my course by the raging blast of madness, having no control of
tongue, but my troubled words dash idly against the surges of
loathsome calamity.

[_Exit_ IO.
CH. Wise was the man, ay, wise indeed, who first weighed well this
maxim, and with his tongue published it abroad, that to match in
one's own degree is best by far;[71] and that one who lives by labor
should woo the hand neither of any that have waxed wanton in opulence,
nor of such as pride themselves on nobility of birth. Never, O
Destines,[72] never ... may ye behold me approaching as a partner
the couch of Jupiter: nor may I be[73] brought to the arms of any
bridegroom from among the sons of heaven: for I am in dread when I
behold the maiden Io, contented with no mortal lover, greatly marred
by wearisome wanderings at the hand of Juno. For myself, indeed--inasmuch
as wedlock on one's own level is free from apprehension--I feel no
alarm.[74] And oh! never may the love of the mightier gods cast on
me a glance that none can elude. This at least is a war without a
conflict, accomplishing things impossible:[75] nor know I what might
become of me, for I see not how I could evade the counsel of Jove.Her oldest son was passionately fond
of books and she helped him through school till he was able to become a
school teacher. But as the young man was high spirited and ambitious, he
resolved that he would make his school teaching a stepping stone to a
more congenial employment. He studied medicine and graduated with M.D.,
but as it takes a young doctor some time to gain the confidence of an
old community, he continued after his graduation to teach and obtained a
certificate to practice medicine. Without being forced to look to his
mother for assistance, while the confidence of his community was slowly
growing, he depended on the school for his living and looked to the
future for his success as a physician.

For the girls, because they were colored, there were but few avenues
open, but they all took in sewing and were excellent seamstresses,
except Lucy, who had gone from home to teach school in a distant city as
there were no openings of the kind for her at her own home.

Mrs. Harcourt was very proud of her children and had unbounded
confidence in them. She was high-spirited and self-respecting and it
never seemed to enter her mind that any evil might befall the children
that would bring sorrow and shame to her home; but nevertheless it came
and Lucy, her youngest child, the pet and pride of the household
returned home with a great sorrow tugging at her heart and a shadow on
her misguided life. It was the old story of woman's weakness and folly
and man's perfidy and desertion. Poor child, how wretched she was till
"peace bound up her bleeding heart," and even then the arrow had pierced
too deep for healing. Sorrow had wasted her strength and laid the
foundation of disease and an early death. Religion brought balm to the
wounded spirit, but no renewed vigor to the wasted frame and in a short
time she fell a victim to consumption, leaving Annette to the care of
her mother. It was so pitiful to see the sorrow on the dear old face as
she would nestle the wronged and disinherited child to her heart and
would say so mournfully, "Oh, I never, never expected this!"

Although Annette had come into the family an unbidden and unwelcome
guest, associated with the saddest experience of her grandmother's life,
yet somehow the baby fingers had wound themselves around the tendrils of
her heart and the child had found a shelter in the warm clasp of loving
arms. To her, Annette was a new charge, an increased burden; but burden
to be defended by her love and guarded by her care. All her other
children had married and left her, and in her lowly home this young
child with infantile sweetness, beguiled many a lonely hour. She loved
Lucy and that was Lucy's child.

  But where was he who sullied
    Her once unspotted name;
  Who lured her from life's brightness
    To agony and shame?

Did society, which closed its doors against Lucy and left her to
struggle as best she might out of the depth into which she had fallen,
pour any righteous wrath upon his guilty head? Did it demand that he
should at least bring forth some fruit meet for repentance by at least
helping Mrs. Harcourt to raise the unfortunate child? Not so. He left
that poor old grandmother to struggle with her failing strength, not
only to bear her own burden, but the one he had so wickedly imposed upon
her. He had left A.P. before Lucy's death and gone to the Pacific coast
where he became wealthy through liquor selling, speculation, gambling
and other disreputable means, and returned with gold enough to hide a
multitude of sins, and then fair women permitted and even courted his
society. Mothers with marriageable daughters condoned his offences
against morality and said, "oh, well, young men will sow their wild
oats; it is no use to be too straight laced." But there were a few
thoughtful mothers old fashioned enough to believe that the law of
purity is as binding upon the man as the woman, and who, under no
conditions, would invite him to associate with their daughters. Women
who tried to teach their sons to be worthy of the love and esteem of
good women by being as chaste in their conversation and as pure in their
lives as their young daughters who sat at their side sheltered in their
pleasant and peaceful homes. One of the first things that Frank Miller
did after he returned to A.P. was to open a large and elegantly
furnished saloon and restaurant. The license to keep such a place was
very high, and men said that to pay it he resorted to very questionable
means, that his place was a resort for gamblers, and that he employed a
young man to guard the entrance of his saloon from any sudden invasion
of the police by giving a signal without if he saw any of them
approaching, and other things were whispered of his saloon which showed
it to be a far more dangerous place for the tempted, unwary and
inexperienced feet of the young men of A.P., than any low groggery in
the whole city. Young men who would have scorned to enter the lowest
dens of vice, felt at home in his gilded palace of sin. Beautiful
pictures adorned the walls, light streamed into the room through finely
stained glass windows, women, not as God had made them, but as sin had
debased them, came there to spend the evening in the mazy dance, or to
sit with partners in sin and feast at luxurious tables. Politicians came
there to concoct their plans for coming campaigns, to fix their slates
and to devise means for grasping with eager hands the spoils of
government. Young men anxious for places in the gift of the government
found that winking at Frank Miller's vices and conforming to the
demoralizing customs of his place were passports to political favors,
and lacking moral stamina, hushed their consciences and became partakers
of his sins.[4] Men talked in private of his vices, and drank his
liquors and smoked his cigars in public. His place was a snare to their
souls. "The dead were there but they knew it not." He built a beautiful
home and furnished it magnificently, and some said that the woman who
married him would do well, as if it were possible for any woman to marry
well who linked her destinies to a wicked, selfish and base man, whose
business was a constant menace to the peace, the purity and progress of
society. I believe it was Milton who said that the purity of a man
should be more splendid than the purity of a woman, basing his idea upon
the declaration, "The head of the woman is the man, and the head of the
man is Jesus Christ." Surely if man occupies this high rank in the
creation of God he should ever be the true friend and helper of woman
and not, as he too often proves, her falsest friend and basest enemy.


Chapter IV


"Annette," said Mrs. Harcourt one morning early, "I want you to stir
your stumps to-day; I am going to have company this evening and I want
you to help me to get everything in apple pie order."

"Who is coming, grandma?"

"Mr. Thomas and Mrs. Lasette."

"Mrs. Lasette!" Annette's eyes brightened. "I hope she will come; she is
just as sweet as a peach and I do love her ever so much; and who else?"

"Brother Lomax, the minister who preached last Sunday and gave us such a
good sermon."

"Is he coming, too?" Annette opened her eyes with pleased surprise. "Oh,
I hope he will come, he's so nice."

"What do you know about him?"

"Why, grandmother, I understood everything that he said, and I felt that
I wanted to be good just like he told us, and I went and asked aunt
'Liza how people got religion. She had been to camp-meeting and seen
people getting religion, and I wanted her to tell me all about it for I
wanted to get it too."

"What did she tell you?"

"She told me that people went down to the mourner's bench and prayed and
then they would get up and shout and say they had religion, and that was
all she knew about it."

"You went to the wrong one when you went to your aunt 'Liza. And what
did you do after she told you?"

"Why, I went down in the garden and prayed and I got up and shouted, but
I didn't get any religion. I guess I didn't try right."

"I guess you didn't if I judge by your actions. When you get older you
will know more about it."

"But, grandma, Aunt 'Liza is older than I am, why don't she know?"

"Because she don't try; she's got her head too full of dress and dancing
and nonsense."

Grandmother Harcourt did not have very much faith in what she called
children's religion, and here was a human soul crying out in the
darkness; but she did not understand the cry, nor look for the
"perfecting of praise out of the mouths of babes and sucklings," not
discerning the emotions of that young spirit, she let the opportunity
slip for rightly impressing that young soul. She depended too much on
the church and too little on the training of the home. For while the
church can teach and the school instruct, the home is the place to train
innocent and impressible childhood for useful citizenship on earth and a
hope of holy companionship in heaven; and every Christian should strive
to have "her one of the provinces of God's kingdom," where she can plant
her strongest batteries against the ramparts of folly, sin and vice.

"Who else is coming, grandma?"

"Why, of course I must invite Mrs. Larkins; it would never do to leave
her out."

Annette shrugged her shoulders, a scowl came over her face and she said:

"I hope she won't come."

"I expect she will and when she comes I want you to behave yourself and
don't roll up your eyes at her and giggle at her and make ugly speeches.
She told me that you made mouths at her yesterday, and that when Mr.
Ross was whipping his horse you said you knew some one whom you wished
was getting that beating, and she said that she just believed you meant
her. How was that, Annette? If I were like you I would be all the time
keeping this neighborhood in hot water."

Annette looked rather crestfallen and said, "I did make mouths at her
house as I came by, but I didn't know that she saw me."

"Yes she did, and you had better mind how you cut your cards with her."

Annette finding the conversation was taking a rather disagreeable turn
suddenly remembered that she had something to do in the yard and ceased
to prolong the dialogue. If the truth must be confessed, Annette was not
a very earnest candidate for saintship, and annoying her next door
neighbor was one of her favorite amusements.

Grandma Harcourt lived in a secluded court, which was shut in on every
side but one from the main streets, and her environments were not of the
most pleasant and congenial kind. The neighbors, generally speaking,
belonged to neither the best nor worst class of colored people. The
court was too fully enclosed to be a thoroughfare of travel, but it was
a place in which women could sit at their doors and talk to one another
from each side of the court. Women who had no scruples about drinking as
much beer, and sometimes stronger drinks, as they could absorb, and some
of the men said that the women drank more than men, and under the
besotting influence of beer and even stronger drinks, a fearful amount
of gossiping, news-carrying and tattling went on, which often resulted
in quarrels and contentions, which, while it never resulted in blood,
sadly lowered the tone of social life. It was the arena of wordy strife
in which angry tongues were the only weapons of warfare, and poor little
Annette was fast learning their modes of battle. But there was one thing
against which grandmother Harcourt set her face like flint, and that was
sending children to saloons for beer, and once she flamed out with
righteous indignation when one of her neighbors, in her absence, sent
Annette to a saloon to buy her some beer. She told her in emphatic terms
she must never do so again, that she wanted her girl to grow up a
respectable woman, and that she ought to be ashamed of herself, not only
to be guzzling beer like a toper, but to send anybody's child to a
saloon to come in contact with the kind of men who frequented such
places, and that any women who sent their children to such places were
training their boys to be drunkards and their girls to be
street-walkers. "I am poor," she said, "but I mean to keep my credit up
and if you and I live in this neighborhood a hundred years you must
never do that thing again."

Her neighbor looked dazed and tried to stammer out an apology, but she
never sent Annette to a beer saloon again, and in course of time she
became a good temperance woman herself, influenced by the faithfulness
of grandmother Harcourt.

The court in which Mrs. Harcourt lived was not a very desirable place,
but, on account of her color, eligible houses could not always be
obtained, and however decent, quiet or respectable she might appear on
applying for a house, she was often met with the rebuff, "We don't rent
to colored people," and men who virtually assigned her race the lowest
place and humblest positions could talk so glibly of the degradation of
the Negro while by their Christless and inhuman prejudice they were
helping add to their low social condition. In the midst of her
unfavorable environments Mrs. Harcourt kept her home neat and tidy; sent
Annette to school constantly and tried to keep her out of mischief, but
there was moral contagion in the social atmosphere of Tennis Court and
Annette too often succumbed to its influence; but Annette was young and
liked the company of young girls and it seemed cruel to confine the
child's whole life to the home and schoolhouse and give her no chance to
be merry and playful with girls of her own age. So now and then
grandmother Harcourt would let her spend a little time with some of the
neighbors' girls but from the questions that Annette often asked her
grandmother and the conversations she sometimes repeated Mrs. Harcourt
feared that she was learning things which should only be taught by
faithful mothers in hours of sacred and tender confidence, and she
determined, even if it gave offence to her neighbors, that she would
choose among her own friends, companions for her granddaughter and not
leave all her social future to chance. In this she was heartily aided by
Mrs. Lasette, who made it a point to hold in that neighborhood, mothers'
meetings and try to teach mothers, who in the dark days of slavery had
no bolts nor bars strong enough to keep out the invader from scattering
their children like leaves in wintry weather, how to build up light and
happy homes under the new dispensation of freedom. To her it was a
labor of love and she found her reward in the peace and love which
flowed into the soul and the improved condition of society. In lowly
homes where she visited, her presence was a benediction and an
inspiration. Women careless in their household and slatternly in their
dress grew more careful in the keeping of their homes and the
arrangement of their attire. Women of the better class of their own
race, coming among them awakened their self-respect. Prejudice and pride
of race had separated them from their white neighbors and the more
cultured of their race had shrunk from them in their ignorance, poverty
and low social condition and they were left, in a great measure, to
themselves--ostracised by the whites on the one side and socially
isolated from the more cultured of their race on the other hand. The law
took little or no cognizance of them unless they were presented at its
bar as criminals; but if they were neither criminals nor paupers they
might fester in their vices and perpetuate their social condition. Who
understood or cared to minister to their deepest needs or greatest
wants? It was just here where the tender, thoughtful love of a
warm-hearted and intelligent woman was needed. To her it was a labor of
love, but it was not all fair sailing. She sometimes met with coldness
and distrust where she had expected kindness and confidence; lack of
sympathy where she had hoped to find ready and willing cooperation; but
she knew that if her life was in harmony with God and Christly sympathy
with man; for such a life there was no such word as fail.


Chapter V


By dint of energy and perseverance grandmother Harcourt had succeeded in
getting everything in order when her guests began to arrive. She had
just put the finishing touches upon her well-spread table and was
reviewing it with an expression of pleasure and satisfaction. And now
while the guests are quietly taking their seats let me introduce you to
them.

Mr. Thomas came bringing with him the young minister, Rev. Mr. Lomax,
whose sermon had so interested and edified Mrs. Harcourt the previous
Sunday. Mrs. Lasette, looking bright and happy, came with her daughter,
and Mrs. Larkins entered arrayed in her best attire, looking starched
and prim, as if she had made it the great business of her life to take
care of her dignity and to think about herself. Mrs. Larkins,[5] though
for years a member of church, had not learned that it was unchristian to
be narrow and selfish. She was strict in her attendance at church and
gave freely to its support; but somehow with all her attention to the
forms of religion, one missed its warm and vivifying influence from her
life, and in the loving clasp of a helping hand, in the tender beam of a
sympathizing glance, weary-hearted mothers and wives never came to her
with their heartaches and confided to her their troubles. Little
children either shrank from her or grew quiet in her presence. What was
missing from her life was the magnetism of love. She had become so
absorbed in herself that she forgot everybody else and thought more of
her rights than her duties. The difference between Mrs. Lasette and Mrs.
Larkins was this, that in passing through life one scattered sunshine
and the other cast shadows over her path. Mrs. Lasette was a fine
conversationalist. She regarded speech as one of heaven's best gifts,
and thought that conversation should be made one of the finest arts, and
used to subserve the highest and best purposes of life, and always
regretted when it was permitted to degenerate into gossip and
backbiting. Harsh judgment she always tried to modify, often saying in
doubtful cases, "Had we not better suspend our judgments? Truly we do
not like people to think the worst of us and it is not fulfilling the
law of love to think the worst of them. Do you not know that if we wish
to dwell in his tabernacle we are not to entertain a reproach against
our neighbor, nor to back-bite with our lips and I do not think there is
a sin which more easily besets society than this." "Speech," she would
say, "is a gift so replete with rich and joyous possibilities," and she
always tried to raise the tone of conversation at home and abroad. Of
her it might be emphatically said, "She opened her mouth with wisdom and
in her lips was the law of kindness."

The young minister, Rev. Mr. Lomax, was an earnest, devout and gifted
young man. Born in the midst of poverty, with the shadows of slavery
encircling his early life, he had pushed his way upward in the world,
"toiling while others slept." His father was dead. While living he had
done what he could to improve the condition of his family, and had, it
was thought, overworked himself in the struggle to educate and support
his children. He was a kind and indulgent father and when his son had
made excellent progress in his studies, he gave him two presents so dear
to his boyish heart--a gun and a watch. But the hour came when the
loving hands were closed over the quiet breast, and the widowed wife
found herself unable to provide the respectable funeral she desired to
give him. Thomas then came bravely and tenderly to her relief. He sold
his watch and gun to defray the funeral expenses of his father. He was a
good son to his aged mother, and became the staff of her declining
years. With an earnest purpose in his soul, and feeling that knowledge
is power, he applied himself with diligence to his studies, passed
through college, and feeling within his soul a commission to teach and
help others to develop within themselves the love of nature, he entered
the ministry, bringing into it an enthusiasm for humanity and love of
Christ, which lit up his life and made him a moral and spiritual force
in the community. He had several advantageous offers to labor in other
parts of the country, but for the sake of being true to the heavenly
vision, which showed him the needs of his people and his adaptation to
their wants, he chose, not the most lucrative, but the most needed work
which was offered him with

  A joy to find in every station,
  Something still to do or bear.

He had seen many things in the life of the people with whom he was
identified which gave him intense pain, but instead of constantly
censuring and finding fault with their inconsistencies of conscience, he
strove to live so blamelessly before them that he would show them by
example a more excellent way and "criticise by creation." To him
religion was a reasonable service and he wished it to influence their
conduct as well as sway their emotions. Believing that right thinking is
connected with right living, he taught them to be conservative without
being bigoted, and liberal without being morally indifferent and
careless in their modes of thought. He wanted them to be able to give a
reason for the faith that was in them and that faith to be rooted and
grounded in love. He was young, hopeful, and enthusiastic and life was
opening before him full of hope and promise.

"It has been a beautiful day," said Mrs. Lasette, seating herself beside
Mrs. Larkins,[6] who always waited to be approached and was ever ready
to think that some one was slighting her or ignoring her presence.

"It has been a fine day, but I think it will rain soon; I judge by my
corn."

"Oh! I think the weather is just perfect. The sun set gloriously this
evening and the sky was the brightest blue."

"I think the day was what I call a weather breeder. Whenever you see
such days this time of year, you may look out for falling weather. I
[expect?] that it will snow soon."

"How that child grows," said Mrs. Larkins, as Annette entered the room.

"Ill weeds grow apace; she has nothing else to do. That girl is going
to give her grandmother a great deal of trouble."

"Oh! I do not think so."

"Well, I do, and I told her grandmother so one day, but she did not
thank me for it."

"No, I suppose not."

"I didn't do it for thanks; I did it just to give her a piece of my mind
about that girl. She is the most mischievous and worrisome child I ever
saw. The partition between our houses is very thin and many a time when
I want to finish my morning sleep or take an afternoon nap, if Mrs.
Harcourt is not at home, Annette will sing and recite at the top of her
voice and run up and down the stairs as if a regiment of soldiers were
after her."

"Annette is quite young, full of life and brimful of mischief, and girls
of that age I have heard likened to persimmons before they are ripe; if
you attempt to eat them they will pucker your mouth, but if you wait
till the first frost touches them they are delicious. Have patience with
the child, act kindly towards her, she may be slow in developing womanly
sense, but I think that Annette has within her the making of a fine
woman."

"Do you know what Annette wants?"

"Yes, I know what she wants; but what do you think she wants?"

"She wants kissing."

"I'd kiss her with a switch if she were mine."

"I do not think it wise to whip a child of her age."

"I'd whip her if she were as big as a house."

"I do not find it necessary with my Laura; it is sufficient to deter her
from doing anything if she knows that I do not approve of it. I have
tried to establish perfect confidence between us. I do not think my
daughter keeps a secret from me. I think many young persons go astray
because their parents have failed to strengthen their characters and to
forewarn and forearm them against the temptations and dangers that
surround their paths. How goes the battle?" said Mrs. Lasette, turning
to Mr. Thomas.

"I am still at sea, and the tide has not yet turned in my favor. Of
course, I feel the change; it has taken my life out of its accustomed
channel, but I am optimist enough to hope that even this change will
result in greater good to the greatest number. I think one of our great
wants is the diversification of our industries, and I do not believe it
would be wise for the parents to relax their endeavors to give their
children the best education in their power. We cannot tell what a race
can do till it utters and expresses itself, and I know that there is an
amount of brain among us which can and should be utilized in other
directions than teaching school or seeking for clerkships. Mr. Clarkson
had a very intelligent daughter whom he wished to fit for some other
employment than that of a school teacher. He had her trained for a
physician. She went to B., studied faithfully, graduated at the head of
her class and received the highest medal for her attainments, thus
proving herself a living argument of the capability in her race. Her
friend, Miss Young, had artistic talent, and learned wood carving. She
developed exquisite taste and has become a fine artist in that branch of
industry. A female school teacher's work in the public schools is apt to
be limited to her single life, but a woman who becomes proficient in a
useful trade or business, builds up for herself a wall of defense
against the invasions of want and privation whether she is married or
single. I think that every woman, and man too, should be prepared for
the reverses of fortune by being taught how to do some one thing
thoroughly so as to be able to be a worker in the world's service, and
not a pensioner upon its bounty. And for this end it does not become us
as a race to despise any honest labor which lifts us above pauperism and
dependence. I am pleased to see our people having industrial fairs. I
believe in giving due honor to all honest labor, in covering idleness
with shame, and crowning labor with respect."


Chapter VI


For awhile Mrs. Harcourt was busy in preparing the supper, to which they
all did ample justice. In her white apron, faultless neck handkerchief
and nicely fitting, but plain dress, Mrs. Harcourt looked the
impersonation of contented happiness. Sorrow had left deep furrows upon
her kindly face, but for awhile the shadows seemed to have been lifted
from her life and she was the pleasant hostess, forgetting her own
sorrows in contributing to the enjoyment of others. Supper being over,
her guests resumed their conversation.

"You do not look upon the mixing of the schools as being necessarily
disadvantageous to our people," said the minister.

"That," said Mr. Thomas, "is just in accordance to the way we adapt
ourselves to the change. If we are to remain in this country as a
component part of the nation, I cannot fail to regard with interest any
step which tends toward our unification with all the other branches of
the human race in this Western Hemisphere."

"Although," said Mrs. Lasette, "I have been educating my daughter and
have felt very sorry when I have witnessed the disappointment of parents
who have fitted their children for teachers and have seen door after
door closed against them, I cannot help regarding the mixing of the
schools as at least one step in a right direction."

"But Mrs. Lasette," said the minister, "as we are educated by other
means than school books and blackboards, such as the stimulus of hope,
the incentives of self-respect and the consensus of public opinion, will
it not add to the depression of the race if our children are made to
feel that, however well educated they may be or exemplary as pupils, the
color of their skin must debar them from entering avenues which are
freely opened to the young girls of every other nationality."

Mr. Thomas replied, "In considering this question, which is so much
broader than a mere local question, I have tried to look beyond the life
of the individual to the life of the race, and I find that it is through
obstacles overcome, suffering endured and the tests of trial that
strength is obtained, courage manifested and character developed. We are
now passing through a crucial period in our race history and what we so
much need is moral earnestness, strength of character and purpose to
guide us through the rocks and shoals on which so many life barques have
been stranded and wrecked."

"Yes," said Mrs. Lasette, "I believe that we are capable of being more
than light-hearted children of the tropics and I want our young people
to gain more persistence in their characters, perseverance in their
efforts and that esprit de corps, which shall animate us with higher,
nobler and holier purpose in the future than we have ever known in the
past; and while I am sorry for the parents who, for their children's
sake, have fought against the entailed ignorance of the ages with such
humble weapons as the washboard, flat iron and scrubbing brush, and who
have gathered the crumbs from the humblest departments of labor, still I
feel with Mr. Thomas that the mixing of the schools is a stride in the
march of the nation, only we must learn how to keep step in the progress
of the centuries."

"I do not think that I fully comprehend you," Mr. Lomax replied.

"Let me explain. I live in the 19th Ward. In that Ward are not a half
dozen colored children. When my husband bought the land we were more
than a mile from the business part of the city, but we were poor and the
land was very cheap and my husband said that paying rent was like
putting money in a sinking fund; so he resolved, even if it put us to a
little disadvantage, that he would buy the tract of land where we now
live. Before he did so, he called together a number of his
acquaintances, pointed out to them the tract of land and told them how
they might join with him in planting a small hamlet for themselves; but
except the few colored neighbors we now have, no one else would join
with us. Some said it was too far from their work, others that they did
not wish to live among many colored people, and some suspected my
husband of trying either to take the advantage of them, or of
agrandising himself at their expense, and I have now dear friends who
might have been living comfortably in their own homes, who, to-day, are
crowded in tenement houses or renting in narrow alleys and little
streets."

"That's true," said Mrs. Larkins, "I am one of them. I wanted my husband
to take up with your husband's offer, but he was one of those men who
knew it all and he never seemed to think it possible that any colored
man could see any clearer than he did. I knew your husband's head was
level and I tried to persuade Mr. Larkins to take up with his offer, but
he would not hear to it; said he knew his own business best, and shut me
up by telling me that he was not going to let any woman rule over him;
and here I am to-day, Larkins gone and his poor old widow scuffing night
and day to keep soul and body together; but there are some men you
couldn't beat anything into their heads, not if you took a sledge
hammer. Poor fellow, he is gone now and I ought not to say anything agin
him, but if he had minded me, I would have had a home over my head and
some land under my feet; but it is no use to grieve over spilled milk.
When he was living if I said, yes, he was always sure to say, no. One
day I said to him when he was opposing me, the way we live is like the
old saying, 'Pull Dick and pull devil,' and what do you think he said?"

"I don't know, I'm sure, what was it?"

"Why, he just looked at me and smiled and said, 'I am Dick.' Of course
he meant that I was the other fellow."

"But," said Mrs. Lasette, "this is a digression from our subject. What
I meant to say is this, that in our Ward is an excellent school house
with a half score of well equipped and efficient teachers. The former
colored school house was a dingy looking building about a mile and a
half away with only one young school teacher, who had, it is true,
passed a creditable examination. Now, when my daughter saw that the
children of all other nationalities, it mattered not how low and
debasing might be their environments, could enter the school for which
her father paid taxes, and that she was forced either to stay at home or
to go through all weathers to an ungraded school, in a poorly ventilated
and unevenly heated room, would not such public inequality burn into her
soul the idea of race-inferiority? And this is why I look upon the mixed
school as a right step in the right direction."

"Taking this view of the matter I see the pertinence of your position on
this subject. Do you know," continued Mr. Lomax,[7] his face lighting up
with a fine enthusiasm, "that I am full of hope for the future of our
people?"

"That's more than I am," said Mrs. Larkins very coldly. "When you have
summered and wintered them as I have, you will change your tune."

"Oh, I hope not," he replied with an accent of distress in his voice.
"You may think me a dreamer and enthusiast, but with all our faults I
firmly believe that the Negro belongs to one of the best branches of the
human race, and that he has a high and holy mission in the great drama
of life. I do not think our God is a purposeless Being, but his ways are
not as our ways are, and his thoughts are not our thoughts, and I dare
not say 'Had I his wisdom or he my love,' the condition of humanity
would be better. I prefer thinking that in the crucible of pain and
apparent disaster, that we are held by the hand of a loving Father who
is doing for us all, the best he can to fit us for companionship with
him in the eternities, and with John G. Whittier, I feel:

  Amid the maddening maze of things
    When tossed by storm and flood,
  To one fixed stake my spirit clings
    I know that God is good.

"I once questioned and doubted, but now I have learned to love and trust
in 'Him whom the heavens must receive till the time of the restitution
of all things.' By this trust I do not mean a lazy leaning on Providence
to do for us what we have ability to do for ourselves. I think that our
people need more to be taught how to live than to be constantly warned
to get ready to die. As Brother Thomas said, we are now passing through
a crucial period of our history and what we need is life--more abundant
life in every fibre of our souls; life which will manifest itself in
moral earnestness, vigor of purpose, strength of character and spiritual
progression."

"I do hope," said Mr. Thomas, "that as you are among us, you will impart
some of your earnestness and enthusiasm to our young people."

"As I am a new comer here, and it is said that the people of A.P., are
very sensitive to criticism, though very critical themselves and rather
set and conservative in their ways, I hope that I shall have the benefit
of your experience in aiding me to do all I can to help the people among
whom my lot is cast."

"You are perfectly welcome to any aid I can give you. In the text John
Utie is named as one of the inhabitants, and his name appears in Hening
as one of the Burgesses in 1629 from "the plantations between Archer's
Hope and Martins Hundred," which corresponds with its location.
_At Martin's Hundred.Before our
public lands are all appropriated, I want our young men and women to get
homesteads, and to be willing to endure privations in order to place our
means of subsistence on a less precarious basis. The land is a basis of
power, and like Anteus in the myth, we will never have our full measure
of material strength till we touch the earth as owners of the soil. And
when we get the land we must have patience and perseverance enough to
hold it."

"In one of our Western States is a city which suggests the idea of
Aladdin's wonderful lamp. Where that city now stands was once the
homestead of a colored man who came from Virginia and obtained it under
the homestead law. That man has since been working as a servant for a
man who lives on 80 acres of his former section, and who has plotted the
rest for the city of C."

"How did he lose it?"

"When he came from the South the country was new and female labor in
great demand. His wife could earn $1.50 a day, and instead of moving on
his land, he remained about forty miles away, till he had forfeited his
claim, and it fell into the hands of the present proprietor. Since then
our foresight has been developing and some months since in travelling in
that same State, I met a woman whose husband had taken up a piece of
land and was bringing it under cultivation. She and her children
remained in town where they could all get work, and transmit him help
and in a few years, I expect, they will be comfortably situated in a
home owned by their united efforts."


Chapter VII


What next? was the question Mr. Thomas was revolving in his mind, when a
knock was heard at his door, and he saw standing on the threshold, one
of his former pupils.

"Well, Charley, how does the world use you? Everything going on
swimmingly?"

"Oh, no indeed. I have lost my situation."

"How is that? You were getting on so well. Mr. Hazleton seemed to be
perfectly satisfied with you, and I thought that you were quite a
favorite in the establishment. How was it that you lost your place?"

"I lost it through the meanness of Mr. Mahler."

"Mr. Mahler, our Superintendent of public schools?"

"Yes, it was through him that I lost my situation."

"Why, what could you have done to offend him?"

"Nothing at all; I never had an unpleasant word with him in my life."

"Do explain yourself. I cannot see why he should have used any influence
to deprive you of your situation."

"He had it in his power to do me a mean, low-life trick, and he did it,
and I hope to see the day when I will be even with him," said the lad,
with a flashing eye, while an angry flush mantled his cheek.

"Do any of the family deal at Mr. Hazleton's store? Perhaps you gave
some of them offence through neglect or thoughtlessness in dealing with
them."

"It was nothing of the kind. Mr. Mahler knew me and my mother. He knew
her because she taught under him, and of course saw me often enough to
know that I was her son, and so last week when he saw me in the store, I
noticed that he looked very closely at me, and that in a few moments
after he was in conversation with Mr. Hazleton. He asked him, 'if he
employed a nigger for a cashier?' He replied, 'Of course not.' 'Well,'
he said, 'you have one now.' After that they came down to the desk where
I was casting up my accounts and Mr. Mahler asked, 'Is Mrs. Cooper your
mother?' I answered, 'yes sir.' Of course I would not deny my mother.
'Isn't your name Charley?'[8] and again I answered, yes; I could have
resorted to concealment, but I would not lie for a piece of bread, and
yet for mother's sake I sorely needed the place.

"What did Mr. Hazleton say?"

"Nothing, only I thought he looked at me a little embarrassed, just as
any half-decent man might when he was about to do a mean and cruel
thing. But that afternoon I lost my place. Mr. Hazleton said to me when
the store was about to close, that he had no further use for me. Not
discouraged, I found another place; but I believe that my evil genius
found me out and that through him I was again ousted from that situation
and now I am at my wits end."

Shall I then prostrate myself before the statues of the divinities?

Oh ye blessed beings, seated on your glorious thrones, 'tis high time for
us to cling to your statues--why do we deeply sighing delay? Hear
ye, or hear ye not, the clash of bucklers? When, if not now, shall we
set about the orison of the peplus[100] and chaplets? I perceive a din,
a crash of no single spear. What wilt thou do? wilt thou, O Mars,
ancient guardian of our soil, abandon thine own land? God of the golden
helm, look upon, look upon the city which once thou didst hold
well-beloved.
Tutelary gods of our country, behold,[101] behold this train of virgins
suppliant to escape from slavery,[102] for around our city a surge of
men with waving crests is rippling, stirred by the blasts of Mars. But,
O Jove, sire all-perfect! avert thoroughly from us capture by the
foemen; for Argives are encircling the fortress of Cadmus; and I
feel a dread of martial arms, and the bits which are fastened through
the jaws of their horses are knelling slaughter.

And seven leaders of the host, conspicuous in their spear-proof harness,
are taking their stand at our seventh gate,[103] assigned their posts
by lot. Do thou too, O Jove-born power that delightest in battle, Pallas,
become a savior to our city; and thou, equestrian monarch, sovereign
of the main, with thy fish-smiting trident, O Neptune, grant a
deliverance, a deliverance from our terrors.

Do thou too, O Mars, alas! alas! guard the city which is named after
Cadmus, and manifestly show thy care--and thou, Venus, the original mother
of our race, avert [these ills]--for from thy blood are we sprung; calling
on thee with heavenward orisons do we approach thee.
And thou, Lycæan king, be thou fierce as a wolf[104] to the hostile army,
[moved] by the voice of our sighs.[105] Thou too, virgin-daughter
of Latona, deftly adorn thyself with thy bow, O beloved Diana. Ah!
ah!
ah!

I hear the rumbling of cars around the city, O revered Juno, the naves
of the heavy-laden axles creak, the air is maddened with the
whizzing of javelins--what is our city undergoing? What will become of
it? To what point is the deity conducting the issue?[106] ah! ah! A
shower of stones too from their slingers is coming over our battlements.

O beloved Apollo! there is the clash of brass-rimmed shields at the
gates, and the just issue in battle must be decided by arms according
to the disposal of Jove.[107] And thou Onca,[108] immortal queen,
that dwellest in front of our city, rescue thy seven-gated seat. O gods,
all-potent to save, O ye gods and goddesses, perfect guardians of the
towers of this land, abandon not our war-wasted city to an army of aliens.
Listen to these virgins, listen to our all-just prayers, as is most
right, to the orisons of virgins which are offered with out-stretched
hands. O beloved divinities, hovering around our city as its deliverers,
show how ye love it; give heed to our public rituals, and when
ye give heed to them succor us, and be ye truly mindful, I beseech
ye, of the rites of our city which abound in sacrifices.

_Re-enter_ ETEOCLES.

Intolerable creatures! is this, I ask you, best and salutary for our
city, and an encouragement to this beleagured force, for you to fall
before the statues of our tutelary gods, to shriek, to yell--O ye
abominations of the wise.I do not
call such people good patriots, let alone clear-sighted Christians. Why,
they act as if God had done wrong in making a man black, and that they
have never forgiven him and had become reconciled to the workmanship of
his hands."

"Charley, you are excited just now, and I think that you are making the
same mistake that better educated men than you have done. You are
putting Christianity and its abuses together. I do think, notwithstanding
all its perversions, and all the rubbish which has gathered around its
simplicity and beauty, that Christianity is the world's best religion.
I know that Christ has been wounded in what should have been the house
of his friends; that the banner of his religion which is broad enough
to float over the wide world with all its sin and misery, has been
drenched with the blood of persecution, trampled in the mire of slavery
and stained by the dust of caste proscription; but I believe that men
are beginning more fully to comprehend the claims of the gospel of
Jesus Christ. I am not afraid of what men call infidelity. I hold the
faith which I profess, to be too true, too sacred and precious to be
disturbed by every wave of wind and doubt. Amid all the religious
upheavals of the Nineteenth Century, I believe God is at the helm, that
there are petrifactions of creed and dogma that are to [be] broken up,
not by mere intellectual speculations, but by the greater solvent of
the constraining love of Christ, and it is for this that I am praying,
longing and waiting. Let schoolmen dispute and contend, the faith for
which I most ardently long and earnestly contend, is a faith which works
by love and purifies the soul."

"Mr. Thomas, I believe that there is something real about your religion,
but some of these white Christians do puzzle me awfully. Oh, I think
that I will go. I am sick and tired of the place. Everything seems to be
against me."

"No, Charley; stay for your mother's sake. I know a noble and generous
man who is brave enough to face a vitiated public opinion, and rich
enough to afford himself the luxury of a good conscience. I shall tell
him your story and try to interest him in your behalf. Will you stay?"

"I certainly will if he will give me any chance to get my living and
help my mother."

"It has been said that everything has two handles, and if you take it by
the wrong handle it will be too hard to hold."

"I should like to know which is the right handle to this prejudice
against color."

"I do not think that there is prejudice against color in this country."

"No prejudice against color!" said Charley Cooper,[9] opening his eyes
with sudden wonder. "What was it that dogged my steps and shut door
after door against me? Wasn't that prejudice against color?"

"Whose color, Charley? Surely not yours, for you are whiter than several
of Mr. Hazleton's clerks. Do you see in your case it was not prejudice
against color?"

"What was it, then?"

"It was the information that you were connected by blood with a once
enslaved and despised people on whom society had placed its ban, and to
whom slavery and a low social condition had given a heritage of scorn,
and as soon as he found out that you were connected with that race, he
had neither the manliness nor the moral courage to say, the boy is
capable and efficient. I see no cause why he should be dismissed for the
crimes of his white ancestors. I heard an eminent speaker once say that
some people would sing, 'I can smile at Satan's rage, and face a
frowning world,' when they hadn't courage enough to face their next door
neighbor on a moral question."

"I think that must be the case with Mr. Hazleton."

"I once used to despise such men. I have since learned to pity them."

"I don't see what you find to pity in Mr. Hazleton, unless it is his
meanness."

"Well, I pity him for that. I think there never was slave more cowed
under the whip of his master than he is under the lash of public
opinion. The Negro was not the only one whom slavery subdued to the
pliancy of submission. Men fettered the slave and cramped their own
souls, denied him knowledge and then darkened their own spiritual
insight, and the Negro, poor and despised as he was, laid his hands upon
American civilization and has helped to mould its character. It is God's
law. As ye sow, so shall ye reap, and men cannot sow avarice and
oppression without reaping the harvest of retribution. It is a dangerous
thing to gather

  The flowers of sin that blossom
    Around the borders of hell."


Chapter VIII


"I never want to go to that school again," said Annette entering Mrs.
Lasette's sitting room, throwing down her books on the table and looking
as if she were ready to burst into tears.

"What is the matter now, my dear child? You seem to be all out of
sorts."

"I've had a fuss with that Mary Joseph."

"Mary Joseph, the saloon-keeper's daughter?"

"Yes."

"How did it happen?"

"Yesterday in changing seats, the teacher put us together according to
the first letter in our last names. You know that I, comes next to J;
but there wasn't a girl in the room whose name begins with I, and so as
J comes next, she put Mary Joseph and myself together."

"Ireland and Africa, and they were not ready for annexation?"

"No, and never will be, I hope."

"Never is a long day, Annette, but go on with your story."

"Well, after the teacher put her in the seat next to me she began to
wriggle and squirm and I asked her if anything was biting her, because
if there was, I did not want it to get on me."

"Oh, Annette, what a girl you are; why did you notice her? What did she
say?"

"She said if there was, it must have got there since the teacher put
her on that seat, and it must have come from me."

"Well, Mary Joseph knows how to scratch as well as you do."

"Yes, she is a real scratch cat."

"And what are you, my dear; a pattern saint?"

"No," said Annette, as the ruefulness of her face relaxed into a smile,
"but that isn't all; when I went to eat my lunch, she said she wasn't
used to eating with niggers. Then I asked her if her mother didn't eat
with the pigs in the old country, and she said that she would rather eat
with them than to eat with me, and then she called me a nigger and I
called her a poor white mick."

"Oh, Annette, I am so sorry; I am afraid that trouble may come out of
this fuss, and then it is so wrong and unlady-like for you to be
quarrelling that way. Do you know how old you are?"

"I am almost fourteen years old."

"Where was the teacher all this time? Did she know anything about it?"

"No; she was out of the room part of the time, but I don't think she
likes colored people, because last week when Joe Smith was cutting up in
school, she made him get up and sit alongside of me to punish him."

"She should not have done so, but I don't suppose she thought for one
moment how it looked."

"I don't know, but when I told grandma about it, Mrs. Larkins was in the
room, and she said if she had done a child of hers so, she would have
gone there and sauced her head off; but grandma said that she would not
notice it; that the easiest way is the best."

"I think that your grandmother was right; but what did Joe say?"

He said that the teacher didn't spite him; that he would as lieve sit by
me as any girl in school, and that he liked girls."

"A little scamp."

"He says he likes girls because they are so jolly."

"But tell me all about Mary Joseph."

"Well, a mean old thing, she went and told her horrid old father, and
just as I was coming along he took hold of my arm and said he had heard
that I had called his daughter, Miss Mary Joseph, a poor white mick and
that if I did it again he would give me a good thrashing, and that for
two pins he would do it then."

"What next?"

"I guess I felt like Mrs. Larkins does when she says her Guinea gets up.
My Guinea was up but I was afraid to show it. Oh, but I do hate these
Irish. I don't like them for anything. Grandmother says that an Irishman
is only a negro turned wrong side out, and I told her so yesterday
morning when she was fussing with me."

"Say, rather, when we were fussing together; I don't think the fault was
all on her side."

"But, Mrs. Lasette, she had no business calling me a nigger."

"Of course not; but would you have liked it [any] better if she had
called you a negro?"

"No; I don't want her to call me anything of the kind, neither negro nor
nigger. She shan't even call me black."

"But, Annette, are you not black?"

"I don't care if I am, she shan't call me so."

"But suppose you were to say to Miss Joseph, 'How white your face is,'
do you suppose she would get angry because you said that she looked
white?"

"No, of course not."

"But suppose you met her hurrying to school, and you said to her, how
red and rosy you look this morning, would that make her angry?"

"I don't suppose that it would."

"But suppose she would say to you, 'Annette, how black your face is this
morning,' how would you feel?"

"I should feel like slapping her."

"Why so; do you think because Miss Joseph----"

"Don't call her Miss, she is so mean and hateful."

"But that don't hinder her from being Miss Joseph; If she is rude and
coarse, that is no reason why I should not have good manners."

"Oh, Mrs. Lasette you are too sweet for anything. I wish I was like
you."

"Never mind my sweetness; that is not to the point. Will you listen to
me, my dear?"

"Of course I will. I could listen to you all night."

"Well, if it were not for signs there's no mistaking I should think you
had a lot of Irish blood in your veins, and had kissed the blarney
stone."

"No I haven't and if I had I would try to let----"

"Hush, my child; how you do rattle on. Do you think because Miss Joseph
is white that she is any better than you are."

"No, of course not."

"But don't you think that she can see and hear a little better than you
can?"

"Why, no; what makes you ask such a funny question?"

"Never mind, just answer me a few more questions. Don't you think if you
and she had got to fighting that she would have whipped you because she
is white?"

"Why, of course not. Didn't she try to get the ruler out of my hand and
didn't because I was stronger."

"But don't you think she is smarter than you are and gets her lessons
better."

"Now you are shouting."

"Why, Annette, where in the world did you get that slang?"

"Why, Mrs. Lasette, I hear the boys saying it in the street, and the
girls in Tennis Court all say it, too. Is there any harm in it?"

"It is slang, my child, and a young lady should never use slang. Don't
use it in private and you will not be apt to use it in public. However
humble or poor a person may be, there is no use in being coarse and
unrefined."

"But what harm is there in it?"

"I don't say that there is any, but I don't think it nice for young
ladies to pick up all sorts of phrases in the street and bring them into
the home. The words may be innocent in themselves, but they may not have
the best associations, and it is safer not to use them. But let us
return to Miss Joseph. You do not think that she can see or hear any
better than you can, learn her lessons any quicker than you can, and
when it comes to a trial of strength that she is stronger than you are,
now let me ask you one more question. Who made Miss Joseph?"

"Why, the Lord, of course."

"And who made you?"

"He made me, too."

"Are you sure that you did not make yourself?"

"Why, of course not," said Annette with an accent of wonder in her
voice.

"Does God ever make any mistakes?"

"Why, no!"

"Then if any one calls you black, why should you get angry? You say it
would not make Miss Joseph angry to say she looked white, or red and
rosy."

"I don't know; I know I don't like it and it makes me mad."

"Now, let me explain the reason why it makes you angry to be called
black. Suppose I were to burn my hand in that stove, what would I have
on my hand?"

"A sore place."

"If it were your hand, what would you do?"

"I would put something on it, wrap it up to keep from getting cold into
it and try to get it well as soon as I could."

"Well, that would be a very sensible way of dealing with it. In this
country, Annette, color has been made a sore place; it has been
associated with slavery, poverty and ignorance. You cannot change your
color, but you can try to change the association connected with our
complexions. Did slavery force a man to be servile and submissive? Learn
to hold up your head and respect yourself. Don't notice Mary Joseph's
taunts; if she says things to tease you don't you let her see that she
has succeeded. Learn to act as if you realized that you were born into
this world the child of the Ruler of the universe, that this is his
world and that you have as much right in it as she has. I think it was
Gilbert Haven, a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, a man for
whose tombstone I do not think America has any marble too white or any
laurel too green, who saw on his travels a statue of Cleopatra, which
suggested to him this thought, 'I am black, but comely, the sun has
looked down upon me, but I will make you who despise me feel that I am
your superior,' and, Annette, I want you to be so noble, true and pure
that if everybody should hate you, that no one could despise you. No,
Annette, if Miss Joseph ever attempts to quarrel with you don't put
yourself on the same level by quarreling with her. I knew her parents
when they were very poor; when a half dozen of them slept in one room.
He has made money by selling liquor; he is now doing business in one of
the most valuable pieces of property I see in East L street. He has been
a curse, and his saloon a nuisance in that street. He has gone up in
property and even political influence, but oh, how many poor souls have
gone down, slain by strong drink and debauchery."


Chapter IX


True to his word, Mr. Thomas applied to Mr. Hastings, the merchant, of
whom he had spoken to his young friend. He went to his counting-room and
asked for a private interview, which was readily granted. They had
kindred intellectual and literary tastes and this established between
them a free masonry of mind which took no account of racial differences.

"I have a favor to ask," said Mr. Thomas, "can you spare me a few
moments?"

"I am at your service," Mr. Hasting replied, "what can I do for you?"

"I have," he said, "a young friend who is honest and industrious and
competent to fill the place of clerk or cashier in your store. He has
been a cashier for Hazleton & Co., and while there gave entire
satisfaction."

"Why did he leave?"

"I cannot say, because he was guilty of a skin not colored like your
own, but because a report was brought to Mr. Hazleton that he had Negro
blood in his veins."

"And what then?"

"He summarily dismissed him."

"What a shame!"

"Yes, it was a shame, but this pride of caste dwarfs men's moral
perception so that it prepares them to do a number of contemptible
things which, under other circumstances, they would scorn to do."

"Yes, it is so, and I am sorry to see it."

"There are men, Mr. Hastings, who would grow hotly indignant if you
would say that they are not gentlemen who would treat a Negro in a
manner which would not be recognized as fair, even by ruffians of the
ring, for, I believe, it is their code of honor not to strike a man when
he is down; but with respect to the colored man, it seems to be a
settled policy with some not only to push him down, but to strike him
when he is down. But I must go; I came to ask a favor and it is not
right to trespass on your time."

"No; sit still. I have a little leisure I can give you. My fall trade
has not opened yet and I am not busy. I see and deplore these things of
which you complain, but what can be done to help it?"

"Mr. Hastings, you see them, and I feel them, and I fear that I am
growing morbid over them, and not only myself, but other educated men
of my race, and that, I think, is a thing to be deprecated. Between the
white people and the colored people of this country there is a unanimity
of interest and I know that our interests and duties all lie in one
direction. Can men corrupt and intimidate voters in the South without a
reflex influence being felt in the North? Is not the depression of labor
in the South a matter of interest to the North? You may protect yourself
from what you call the pauper of Europe, but you will not be equally
able to defend yourself from the depressed laborer of the new South, and
as an American citizen, I dread any turn of the screw which will lower
the rate of wages here; and I like to feel as an American citizen that
whatever concerns the nation concerns me. But I feel that this prejudice
against my race compresses my soul, narrows my political horizon and
makes me feel that I am an alien in the land of my birth. It meets me in
the church, it confronts me in business and I feel its influence in
almost every avenue of my life."

"I wish, Mr. Thomas, that some of the men who are writing and talking
about the Negro problem would only come in contact with the thoughtful
men of your race. I think it would greatly modify their views."

"Yes, you know us as your servants. The law takes cognizance of our
crimes. Your charitable institutions of our poverty, but what do any of
you know of our best and most thoughtful men and women? When we write
how many of you ever read our books and papers or give yourselves any
trouble to come near us as friends and help us? Even some of your
professed Christians are trying to set us apart as if we were social
lepers."

"You draw a dark picture. I confess that I feel pained at the condition
of affairs in the South, but what can we do in the South?"

"Set the South a better example. But I am hindering you in your
business."

"Not at all. I want to see things from the same standpoint that you do."

"Put yourself then in my place. You start both North and South from the
premise that we are an inferior race and as such you have treated us.
Has not the consensus of public opinion said for ages, 'No valor redeems
our race, no social advancement nor individual development wipes off the
ban which clings to us'; that our place is on the lowest round of the
social ladder; that at least, in part of the country we are too low for
the equal administrations of religion and the same dispensations of
charity and a fair chance in the race of life?"

"You bring a heavy verdict against us. I hardly think that it can be
sustained. Whatever our motives may have been, we have been able to
effect in a few years a wonderful change in the condition of the Negro.
He has freedom and enfranchisement and with these two great rights he
must work out his social redemption and political solution. If his means
of education have been limited, a better day is dawning upon him. Doors
once closed against him in the South are now freely opened to him, and I
do not think that there ever was a people who freed their slaves who
have given as much for their education as we have, and my only hope is
that the moral life of the race will keep pace with its intellectual
growth. You tell me to put myself in your place. I think if I were a
colored young man that I would develop every faculty and use every power
which God had given me for the improvement and development of my race.
And who among us would be so blind and foolish as to attempt to keep
down an enlightened people who were determined to rise in the scale of
character and condition? No, Mr. Thomas, while you blame us for our
transgressions and shortcomings, do not fail to do all you can to rouse
up all the latent energies of your young men to do their part worthily
as American citizens and to add their quota to the strength and progress
of the nation."

"I am conscious of the truth and pertinence of your remarks, but bear
with me just a few moments while I give an illustration of what I mean."

"Speak on, I am all attention. The subject you bring before me is of
too vital importance to be constantly ignored."

"I have a friend who is presiding elder in the A.M.E. Church and his
wife, I think, is capable of being a social and intellectual accession
in any neighborhood in which they might live. He rented a house in the
city of L. and being of a fair complexion I suppose the lessee rented to
him without having a suspicion of his race connection. When it was
ascertained that he and his family were colored, he was ordered to
leave, and this man, holding among the ministers of that city the
position of ambassador for Christ, was ordered out of the house on
account of the complexion of his family. Was there not a screw loose in
the religious sentiment of that city which made such an act possible? A
friend of mine who does mission work in your city, some time since,
found a young woman in the slums and applied at the door of a midnight
mission for fallen women, and asked if colored girls could be received,
and was curtly answered, 'no.' For her in that mission there was no room.
The love of Christ constrained no hand to strive to rescue her from the
depths of degradation. The poor thing went from bad to worse till at
last, wrecked and blighted, she went down to an early grave the victim
of strong drink. That same lady found on her mission a white girl;
seeing a human soul adrift, regardless of color, she went, in company
with some others, to that same mission with the poor castaway; to her
the door was opened without delay and ready admittance granted. But I
might go on reciting such instances until you would be weary of hearing
and I of relating them; but I appeal to you as a patriot and Christian,
is it not fearfully unwise to keep alive in freedom the old animosities
of slavery? To-day the Negro shares citizenship with you. He is not
arraying himself against your social order; his hands are not dripping
with dynamite, nor is he waving in your face the crimson banners of
anarchy, but he is increasing in numbers and growing in intelligence,
and is it not madness and folly to subject him to social and public
inequalities, which are calculated to form and keep alive a hatred of
race as a reaction against pride of caste?"

"Mr. Thomas, you have given me a new view of the matter. To tell you the
truth, we have so long looked upon the colored man as a pliable and
submissive being that we have never learned to look at any hatred on his
part as an element of danger, and yet I should be sorry to know that by
our Southern supineness we were thoughtlessly helping create a black
Ireland in our Gulf States, that in case the fires of anarchy should
ever sweep through our land, that a discontented and disaffected people
in our midst might be as so much fuel to fire."

"But really I have been forgetting my errand. Have you any opening in
your store for my young friend?"

"I have only one vacancy, and that is the place of a utility man."

"What are the duties of that position?"

"Almost anything that comes to hand; tying up bundles, looking after the
mails, scattering advertisements. A factotum whose work lies here, there
and everywhere."

"I am confident that he will accept the situation and render you
faithful service."

"Well, then send him around tomorrow and if there is anything in him I
may be able to do better by him when the fall trade opens."

And so Charley Cooper was fortunate enough in his hour of perplexity to
find a helping hand to tide him over a difficult passage in his life.
Gratefully and faithfully did he serve Mr. Hastings, who never regretted
the hour when he gave the struggling boy such timely assistance. The
discipline of the life through which he was passing as the main stay of
his mother, matured his mind and imparted to it a thoughtfulness past
his years. Instead of wasting his time in idle and pernicious pleasure,
he learned how to use his surplus dollar and how to spend his leisure
hours, and this knowledge told upon his life and character. He was not
very popular in society. Young men with cigars in their mouths and the
perfume of liquor on their breaths, shrugged their shoulders and called
him a milksop because he preferred the church and Sunday school to the
liquor saloon and gambling dens. The society of P. was cut up and
divided into little sets and coteries; there was an amount of
intelligence among them, but it ran in narrow grooves and scarcely
one[10] intellect seemed to tower above the other, and if it did, no
people knew better how to ignore a rising mind than the society people
of A.P. If the literary aspirant did not happen to be of their set. As
to talent, many of them were pleasant and brilliant conversationalists,
but in the world of letters scarcely any of them were known or
recognized outside of their set. They had leisure, a little money and
some ability, but they lacked the perseverance and self-denial
necessary to enable them to add to the great resources of natural
thought. They had narrowed their minds to the dimensions of their set
and were unprepared to take expansive[11] views of life and duty. They
took life as a holiday and the lack of noble purposes and high and holy
aims left its impress upon their souls and deprived them of that joy and
strength which should have crowned their existence and given to their
lives its "highest excellence and beauty."


Chapter X


Two years have elapsed since we left Annette recounting her school
grievances to Mrs. Lasette. She has begun to feel the social contempt
which society has heaped upon the colored people, but she has determined
not to succumb to it. There is force in the character of that fiery,
impetuous and impulsive girl, and her school experience is bringing it
out. She has been bending all her mental energies to compete for the
highest prize at the commencement of her school, from which she expects
to graduate in a few weeks. The treatment of the saloon-keeper's
daughter, and that of other girls of her ilk, has stung her into
strength. She feels that however despised her people may be, that a
monopoly of brains has not been given to the white race. Mr. Thomas has
encouraged her efforts, and taught her to believe that not only is her
own honor at stake as a student, but that as a representative of her
branch of the human race, she is on the eve of winning, or losing, not
only for herself, but for others. This view of the matter increases her
determination and rouses up all the latent energies of her nature, and
she labors day and night to be a living argument of the capability in
her race. For other girls who will graduate in that school, there will
be open doors, and unclosed avenues, while she knows that the color of
her skin will bar against her the doors of workshops, factories and
school rooms, and yet Mr. Thomas, knowing all the discouragements around
her path, has done what he could to keep her interest in her studies
from flagging. He knows that she has fine abilities, but that they must
be disciplined by trial and endeavor before her life can be rounded by
success and triumph. He has seen several of her early attempts at
versification; pleased and even delighted with them, he has shown them
to a few of his most intellectual friends. Eager and earnest for the
elevation of the colored people, he has been pained at the coldness with
which they have been received.

"I do not call that poetry," said one of the most intelligent women of
A.P.

"Neither do I see anything remarkable about her," said another.

"I did not," said Mr. Thomas, "bring you the effusions of an
acknowledged poet, but I think that the girl has fine ability, which
needs encouragement and recognition."

But his friends could not see it; they were very charry of their
admiration, lest their judgment should be found at fault, and then it
was so much easier to criticise than it was to heartily admire; and they
knew it seemed safer to show their superior intelligence by dwelling on
the defects, which would necessarily have an amount of crudeness in them
than to look beneath the defects for the suggestions of beauty, strength
and grace which Mr. Thomas saw in these unripe, but promising effusions.
It seemed perfectly absurd with the surroundings of Tennis Court to
expect anything grand or beautiful [to] develop in its midst; but with
Annette, poetry was a passion born in her soul, and it was as natural
for her to speak in tropes and figures as it was for others to talk in
plain, common prose. Mr. Thomas called her "our inveterate poet," and
encouraged her, but the literary aspirants took scarcely any interest in
the girl whom they left to struggle on as best she might. In her own
home she was doomed to meet with lack of encouragement and appreciation
from her relatives and grandmother's friends. One day her aunt, Eliza
Hanson, was spending the day with her mother, and Annette showed her
some of her verses and said to her, "that is one of my best pieces."

"Oh, you have a number of best pieces," said her aunt, carelessly. "Can
you cook a beefsteak?"

"I suppose I could if I tried."

"Well, you had better try than to be trying to string verses together.
You seem to think that there must be something very great about you. I
know where you want to get. You want to get among the upper tens, but
you haven't got style enough about you for that."

"That's just what I tell her," said her grandmother. "She's got too many
airs for a girl in her condition. She talks about writing a book, and
she is always trying to make up what she calls poetry. I expect that she
will go crazy some of these days. She is all the time talking to
herself, and I just think it is a sin for her to be so much taken up
with her poetry."

"You had better put her to work; had she not better go out to service?"

"No, I am going to let her graduate first."

"What's the use of it? When she's through, if she wants to teach, she
will have to go away."

"Yes, I know that, but Mrs. Lasette has persuaded me to let Annette
graduate, and I have promised that I would do so, and besides I think to
take Annette from school just now would almost break her heart."

"Well, mother, that is just like you; you will work yourself almost to
death to keep Annette in school, and when she is through what good will
it do her?"

"Maybe something will turn up that you don't see just now. When a good
thing turns up if a person ain't ready for it they can't take hold of
it."

"Well, I hope a good husband will turn up for my Alice."

"But maybe the good husband won't turn up for Annette."

"That is well said, for they tell me that Annette is not very popular,
and that some of the girls are all the time making fun of her."

"Well, they had better make fun of themselves and their own bad manners.
Annette is poor and has no father to stand by her, and I cannot
entertain like some of their parents can, but Annette, with all her
faults, is as good as any of them. Talk about the prejudice of the white
people, I think there is just as much prejudice among some colored as
there is among them, only we do not get the same chance to show it; we
are most too mixed up and dependent on one another for that." Just then
Mrs. Lasette entered the room and Mrs. Hanson, addressing her, said, "We
were just discussing Annette's prospects. Mother wants to keep Annette
at school till she graduates, but I think she knows enough now to teach
a country school and it is no use for mother to be working as she does
to keep Annette in school for the sake of letting her graduate. There
are lots of girls in A.P. better off than she who have never graduated,
and I don't see that mother can afford to keep Annette at school any
longer."

"But, Eliza, Annette is company for me and she does help about the
house."

"I don't think much of her help; always when I come home she has a book
stuck under her nose."

"Annette," said Mrs. Lasette, "is a favorite of mine; I have always a
warm place in my heart for her, and I really want to see the child do
well. In my judgment I do not think it advisable to take her from school
before she graduates. If Annette were indifferent about her lessons and
showed no aptitude for improvement I should say as she does not
appreciate education enough to study diligently and has not aspiration
enough to keep up with her class, find out what she is best fitted for
and let her be instructed in that calling for which she is best
adapted."

"I think," said Mrs. Hanson, "you all do wrong in puffing up Annette
with the idea that she is something extra. You think, Mrs. Lasette, that
there is something wonderful about Annette, but I can't see it, and I
hear a lot of people say she hasn't got good sense."

"They do not understand the child."

"They all say that she is very odd and queer and often goes out into the
street as if she never saw a looking glass. Why, Mrs. Miller's daughter
just laughed till she was tired at the way Annette was dressed when she
went to call on an acquaintance of hers. Why, Annette just makes herself
a perfect laughing stock."

"Well, I think Mary Miller might have found better employment than
laughing at her company."

"Now, let me tell you, Mary Miller don't take her for company, and that
very evening Annette was at my house, just next door, and when Mary
Miller went to church she never asked her to go along with her, although
she belongs to the same church."

"I am sorry to say it," said grandmother Harcourt, "but your Alice
hardly ever comes to see Annette, and never asks her to go anywhere with
her, but may be in the long run Annette will come out better than some
who now look down upon her. It is a long road that has no turn and
Annette is like a singed cat; she is better than she looks."

"I think," said Mrs. Lasette, "while Annette is very bright and
intelligent as a pupil, she has been rather slow in developing in some
other directions. She lacks tact, is straightforward to bluntness and
has not any style about her and little or no idea of company manners,
but she is never coarse nor rude. I never knew her to read a book whose
author I would blush to name, and I never heard her engage in any
conversation I would shrink to hear repeated. I don't think there is a
girl of purer lips in A.P. than Annette, and I do not think your set, as
you call it, has such a monopoly of either virtue or intelligence that
you can afford to ridicule and depress any young soul who does not
happen to come up to your social standard. Where dress and style are
passports Annette may be excluded, but where brain and character count
Annette will gain admittance. I fear," said Mrs. Lasette, rising to go,
"that many a young girl has gone down in the very depths who might have
been saved if motherly women, when they saw them unloved and lonely, had
reached out to them a helping hand and encouraged them to live useful
and good lives. We cry am I my sister's keeper? [I?] will not wipe the
blood off our hands if through pride and selfishness we have stabbed by
our neglect souls we should have helped by our kindness. I always feel
for young girls who are lonely and neglected in large cities and are in
danger of being ensnared by pretended sympathies and false friendship,
and, to-day, no girl is more welcome at any social gathering than
Annette."

MES. And he himself, to be sure of this, is cutting off the ill-fated
race.

CH. Over such events one may both rejoice and weep--[rejoice] at the
success of our city--but [mourn because][166] our princes, the two
generals, have portioned out the whole possession of their substance
with the hammer-wrought Scythian steel, and they will possess of
land just as much as they receive at their burial, carried off
according to the unhappy imprecations of their sire.

MES. The city is rescued, but earth hath drank the blood of the
brother princes through their slaughter of each other.

[_Exit_ MESSENGER.[167]
CH. Oh mighty Jove! and tutelary divinities of our city! ye that do in
very deed protect these towers of Cadmus, am I to rejoice and raise a
joyous hymn to the savior of our city, the averter of mischief,
or shall I bewail the miserable and ill-fated childless[168]
commanders, who, in very truth, correctly, according to their
name,[169] full of rancor, have perished in impious purpose?

Oh dark and fatal curse of the race and of OEdipus, what horrible chill
is this that is falling upon my heart?[170] I, like a Thyiad, have framed
a dirge for the tomb, hearing of the dead, dabbled in blood, that
perished haplessly--verily this meeting of spears was ill-omened. The
imprecation of the father hath taken full effect, and hath not failed:
and the unbelieving schemes of Laïus have lasted even until now; and
care is through our city, and the divine declarations lose not
their edge--Alas!

worthy of many a sigh, ye have accomplished this horror surpassing
credence; and lamentable sufferings have come indeed.

This is self-evident, the tale of the messenger is before my eyes--Double
are our sorrows, double are the horrors of them that have fallen by
mutual slaughter; doubly shared are these consummated sufferings.

What shall I say? What, but that of a certainty troubles on troubles are
constant inmates of this house? But, my friends, ply the speeding stroke
of your hands about your heads, before the gale of sighs, which ever
wafts on its passage the bark, on which no sighs are heard, with sable
sails, the freighted with the dead, untrodden for Apollo, the sunless,
across Acheron, and to the invisible all-receiving shore.[171]
But [enough]! for here are coming to this bitter office both Antigone
and Ismene. I am assured beyond all doubt that they will send forth
a fitting wail from their lovely deep-cinctured bosoms. And right it is
that we, before the sound of their wailing reach us, both ejaculate the
dismal-sounding chaunt of Erinnys, and sing a hateful pæan to Pluto.
Alas! ye that are the most hapless in your sisterhood of all women
that fling the zone around their robes, I weep, I mourn, and there is
no guile about so as not to be truly wailing from my very soul.

SEMI-CHORUS. Alas! alas! ye frantic youths, distrustful of friends, and
unsubdued by troubles, have wretched seized on your paternal dwelling
with the spear.

SEMI-CH.

Wretched in sooth were they who found a wretched death to the bane
of their houses.

SEMI-CH. Alas! alas! ye that overthrew the walls of your palace,
and having cast an eye on bitter monarchy, how have ye now settled
your claims with the steel?

SEMI-CH. And too truly hath awful Erinnys brought [the curses] of
their father OEdipus to a consummation.

SEMI-CH. Smitten through your left--Smitten in very truth, and through
sides that sprung from a common womb.

SEMI-CH. Alas for them, wretched! Alas! for the imprecations of death
which avenged murder by murder.

SEMI-CH. Thou speakest of the stroke that pierced through and through those
that were smitten in their houses and in their persons with speechless
rage, and the doom of discord brought upon them by the curses of their
father.

SEMI-CH. And moreover, sighing pervades the city, the towers sigh, the
land that loved her heroes sighs; and for posterity remains the substance
by reason of which, by reason of which,[172] contention came upon them
whom evil destiny, and the issue of death.

SEMI-CH. In the fierceness of their hearts they divided between them
the possessions, so as to have an equal share; but the arbiter[173]
escapes not censure from their friends, and joyless was their
warfare.

SEMI-CH. Smitten by the steel, here they lie; and smitten by the steel[174]
there await them--one may perchance ask what?--the inheritance of the
tombs of their fathers.

SEMI-CH. From the house the piercing groan sends forth its sound loudly
over them, mourning with a sorrow sufferings as o'er its own,
melancholy, a foe to mirth, sincerely weeping from the very soul,
which is worn down while I wail for these two princes.

SEMI-CH. We may say too of these happy men that they both wrought
many mischiefs to their countrymen, and to the ranks of all the
strangers, that perished in great numbers in battle.

SEMI-CH.

Ill-fated was she that bare them before all women, as many as are
mothers of children.

Having taken to herself her own son for a husband, she brought forth
these, and they have ended their existence thus by fraternal hands that
dealt mutual slaughter.

SEMI-CH. Fraternal in very truth! and utterly undone were they by a
severing in no wise amicable, by frenzied strife at the consummation of
their feud.

SEMI-CH. But their emnity is terminated; and in the reeking earth is
their life-blood mingled, and truly are they of the same blood.

A bitter arbiter of strife is the stranger from beyond the sea, the
whetted steel that bounded forth from the fire; and bitter is the
horrible distributer of their substance, Mars, who hath brought the
curse of their father truly to its consummation.

SEMI-CH. Hapless youths! They have obtained their portion of
heaven-awarded woes, and beneath their bodies shall be a fathomless
wealth of earth.[175] Alas!

ye that have made your houses bloom with many troubles! And at its fall
these Curses raised the shout of triumph in shrill strain, when the
race had been put to flight in total rout; a trophy of Atè has
been reared at the gate at which they smote each other, and, having
overcome both, the demon rested.

_Enter_ ANTIGONE _and_ ISMENE.

ANT. When wounded thou didst wound again.[176]

ISM. And thou, having dealt death, didst perish.

ANT. With the spear thou didst slay.

ISM. By the spear thou didst fall.

ANT. Wretched in thy deeds!

ISM. Wretched in thy sufferings!

ANT. Let tears arise.

ISM. Let groans resound.

ANT. Having slain, he shall lie prostrate. Alas! alas! my soul is maddening
with sighs.

ISM. And my heart mourns within me.

ANT. Alas! thou that art worthy of all lamentation!

ISM. And thou again also utterly wretched.

ANT. By a friend didst thou fall.

ISM. And a friend didst thou slay.

ANT. Double horrors to tell of.

ISM. Double horrors to behold!

ANT. These horrors are near akin to such sorrows.

ISM. And we their sisters here are near to our brothers.

CH. Alas! thou Destiny, awarder of bitterness, wretched! and thou dread
shade of OEdipus! and dark Erinnys! verily art thou great in might.

ANT. Alas! alas!

sufferings dismal to behold hath he shown to me after his exile.

ANT. And he returned not when he had slain him.

ISM. No--but after being saved he lost his life.

ANT. In very truth he lost it.

ISM. Ay, and he cut off his brother.

ANT. Wretched family!

ISM. That hath endured wretchedness. Woes that are wretched and of one
name.

Thoroughly steeped in three-fold sufferings.

ANT. Deadly to tell--

ISM. Deadly to look on.

CH. Alas! alas! thou Destiny, awarder of bitterness, wretched!

and thou dread shade of OEdipus! and dark Erinnys! verily art thou great
in might.

ANT. Thou in sooth knowest this by passing through it.

ISM. And so dost thou, having learned it just as soon as he.

ANT. After that thou didst return to the city.

ISM. An antagonist too to this man here in battle-fray.

ANT. Deadly to tell.

ISM. Deadly to look on.

ANT. Alas! the trouble.

ISM. Alas! the horrors upon our family and our land, and me above all.

ANT. Alas! alas! and me, be sure, more than all.

ISM. Alas! alas! for the wretched horrors!

O sovereign Eteocles, our chieftain!

ANT. Alas! ye most miserable of all men.

ISM. Alas! ye possessed by Atè.

ANT. Alas! alas! where in the land shall we place them both? Alas!
in the spot that is most honorable. Alas! alas! a woe fit to sleep beside
my father.[177]
_Enter_ HERALD.

'Tis my duty to announce the good pleasure and the decree of the
senators of the people of this city of Cadmus. It is resolved to
bury this body of Eteocles for his attachment to his country, with
the dear interment in earth!

for in repelling our foes he met death in the city, and being pure
in respect to the sacred rites of his country, blameless hath he fallen
where 'tis glorious for the young to fall; thus, indeed, hath it
been commissioned me to announce concerning this corpse: But [it
has been decreed] to cast out unburied, a prey for dogs, this the
corpse of his brother Polynices, inasmuch as he would have been the
overturner of the land of Cadmus, if some one of the gods had not
stood in opposition to his spear: and even now that he is dead, he
will lie under the guilt of pollution with the gods of his country,
whom he having dishonored was for taking the city by bringing against
it a foreign host.

So it is resolved that he, having been buried dishonorably by winged
fowls, should receive his recompense, and that neither piling up by
hands of the mound over his tomb should follow, nor any one honor him
with shrill-voiced wailings, but that he be ungraced with a funeral
at the hands of his friends.

Such is the decree of the magistracy of the Cadmæans.

ANT. But I say to the rulers of the Cadmæans, if not another single
person is willing to take part with me in burying him, I will bury
him, and will expose myself[178] to peril by burying my brother. And I
feel no shame at being guilty of this disobedient insubordination
against the city.

Powerful is the tie of the common womb from which we sprung, from a
wretched mother and a hapless sire. Wherefore, my soul, do thou, willing
with the willing share in his woes, with the dead, thou living, with
sisterly feeling--and nought shall lean-bellied wolves tear his flesh--let
no one suppose it. All woman though I be, I will contrive a tomb and a
deep-dug grave for him, bearing earth in the bosom-fold of my fine
linen robe, and I myself will cover him; let none imagine the
contrary: an effective scheme shall aid my boldness.

HER.

I bid thee not to act despite the state in this matter.

ANT. I bid thee not announce to me superfluous things.

HER. Yet stern is a people that has just escaped troubles.

ANT. Ay, call it stern[179]--yet this [corpse] shall not lie unburied.

HER. What! wilt thou honor with a tomb him whom our state abhors?[180]

HER. ANT. Heretofore he has not been honored by the gods.[181]
HER. Not so, at least before he put this realm in jeopardy.

ANT. Having suffered injuriously he repaid with injury.

HER. Ay, but this deed of his fell on all instead of one.

ANT. Contention is the last of the gods to finish a dispute,[182] and I
will bury him; make no more words.

HER. Well, take thine own way--yet I forbid thee.

[Exit_ HERALD.

CH. Alas! alas! O ye fatal Furies, proudly triumphant, and destructive to
this race, ye that have ruined the family of OEdipus from its
root.
What will become of me? What shall I do? What can I devise? How shall
I have the heart neither to bewail thee nor to escort thee to the
tomb?
But I dread and shrink from the terror of the citizens. Thou, at all
events, shalt in sooth have many mourners; but he, wretched one, departs
unsighed for, having the solitary-wailing dirge of his sister. Who
will agree to this?

SEM. Let the state do or not do aught to those who bewail Polynices. We,
on this side will go and join to escort his funeral procession; for
both this sorrow is common to the race, and the state at different times
sanctions different maxims of justice.

SEM. But we will go with this corpse, as both the city and justice
join to sanction. For next to the Immortals and the might of Jove,
this man prevented the city of the Cadmæans from being destroyed, and
thoroughly overwhelmed by the surge of foreign enemies.

FOOTNOTES
[1] Lucian, in his dialogue entitled "Prometheus," or "Caucasus," has given
occasional imitations of passages in this play, not, however, sufficient
to amount to a paraphrase, as Dr. Blomfield asserted. Besides, as Lucian
lays the scene at Caucasus, he would rather seem to have had the "Prometheus
solutus" in mind. (See Schutz, Argum.) But the ancients
commonly made Caucasus the seat of the punishment of Prometheus,
and, as Æschylus is not over particular in his geography, it is possible
that he may be not altogether consistent with himself. Lucian makes no
mention of Strength and Force, but brings in Mercury at the beginning
of the dialogue. Moreover, Mercury is represented in an excellent
humor, and rallies Prometheus good-naturedly upon his tortures. Thus,
§6, he says, [Greek: eu echei. kataptêsetai de êdê kai ho aetos apokerôn
to hêpar, hôs panta echois anti tês kalês kai eumêchanou plastikês.] In
regard to the place where Prometheus was bound, the scene doubtless
represented a ravine between two precipices rent from each other,
with a distant prospect of some of the places mentioned in the wanderings
of Io. (See Schutz, _ibid._) But as the whole mention of Scythia is an
anachronism, the less said on this point the better. Compare, however,
the following remarks of Humboldt, Cosmos, vol. ii. p. 140, "The
legend of Prometheus, and the unbinding of the chains of the fire-bringing
Titan on the Caucasus by Hercules in journeying eastward--the
ascent of Io from the valley of the Hybrites--[See Griffiths' note on
v. 717, on [Greek:
hybristês potamos], which _must_ be a proper name]--toward the Caucasus;
and the myth of Phryxus and Helle--all point to the same path on which
Phoenician navigators had earlier adventured."
[2] Dindorf, in his note, rightly approves the elegant reading [Greek:
abroton (=apanthrôpon)] in lieu of the frigid [Greek: abaton]. See Blomf.
and Burges. As far as this play is concerned, the tract was not actually
_impassable_, but it was so to _mortals_.

[3] [Greek: leôrgos = rhadiourgos, panourgos, kakourgos].
Cf. Liddell and Linwood, s. v. The interpretation and derivation of the
etym. magn. [Greek: ho tôn anthrôpôn plastês], is justly rejected by
Dindorf, who remarks that Æschylus paid no attention to the fable respecting
Prometheus being the maker of mankind.

[4] The epithet [Greek: pantechnou], which might perhaps be rendered
"art-full," is explained by v. 110 and 254.
[5] See Jelf. Gk. Gr. §720, 2d.
[6] There seems little doubt that [Greek: euôriazein] is the right
reading. Its ironical force answers to Terence's "probe curasti."

[7] I have spelled Sire in all places with a capital letter, as
Jove is evidently meant. See my note on v. 49.
[8] This is not a mere zeugma, but is derived from the supposition
that sight was the chief of the senses, and in a manner included
the rest. (Cf. Plato Tim. p. 533, C. D.) See the examples adduced
by the commentators. Schrader on Musæus 5, and Boyes, Illustrations
to Sept. c. Th. 98.
Shakespeare has burlesqued this idea in his exquisite buffoonery,
Midsummer Night's Dream, Act v. sc. 1.
_Pyramus._ I see a voice: now will I to the chink, To spy an I can
hear my Thisby's face.
[9] Claudian de rapt. Pros. II. 363. "Stellantes nox picta sinus."
See on Soph. Trach. 94.
[10] _I.e._, having no rest. Soph. OEd. Col. 19. [Greek:
kôla kampson toud' ep' axestou petrou].
[11] The difficulties of this passage have been increased by no one
of the commentators perceiving the evident opposition between [Greek:
Theoi] and [Greek: Zeus]. As in the formula [Greek: ô Zeu kai Theoi]
(cf. Plato Protag.
p. 193, E.; Aristoph. Plut. I. with Bergler's note; Julian Cæs. p.
51, 59, 76; Dionys. Hal. A. R. II. p. 80, 32-81, 20, ed. Sylb.) so,
from the time of Homer downward, we find [Greek: Zeus] constantly
mentioned apart from the other gods (cf. Il. I. 423, 494), and so
also with his epithet [Greek: patêr], as in v. 4, 17, 20, etc.
(Eustath, on Il. T. I., p. 111, 30, [Greek: hoti Zeus allachou men
haplôs patêr elechthê]). There is evidently, therefore, the opposition
expressed in the text: "'Tis not for the other gods (_i.e._ [Greek:
tois allois theois]) to rule, but for Jove alone." This view was
approved, but not confirmed, by Paley.

[12] See Dindorf.
[13] Paley well observes that there is no objection to this
interpretation, for if Prometheus could endure the daily gnawing
of his entrails by the vulture, the rivets wouldn't put him to much
trouble. Lucian, § 6, is content with fastening his hands to the
two sides of the chasm.
[14] [Greek: tychês] is retained by Dindorf, but [Greek:
technês] is defended by Griffiths and Paley. I think, with Burges,
that it is a gloss upon [Greek: Promêtheôs].
[15] So Milton, P. L. iv. 165.
Cheer'd with the grateful smell old Ocean _smiles_.
Lord Byron (opening of the Giaour):
There mildly _dimpling_ Ocean's cheek Reflects the tints of many a
peak, Caught by the _laughing_ tides that lave Those Edens of the
eastern wave.
[16] Literally "filling a rod," [Greek: plêrôtos] here being active.
Cf. Agam. 361, [Greek: atês panalôtou].
Choeph. 296, [Greek: pamphthartô morô]. Pers. 105, [Greek:
polemous pyrgodaïktous]. See also Blomfield, and Porson on Hes.
1117, [Greek: narthêx] is "ferula" or "fennel-giant," the pith of
which makes excellent fuel. Blomfield quotes Proclus on Hesiod, Op.
1, 52, "the [Greek: narthêx] preserves flame excellently, having a
soft pith inside, that nourishes, but can not extinguish the flame."
For a strange fable connected with this theft, see Ælian Hist.
An. VI. 51.
[17] On the preternatural scent supposed to attend the presence of
a deity, cf Eur. Hippol. 1391, with Monk's note, Virg. Æn. I. 403,
and La Cerda. See also Boyes's Illustrations.
[18] On [Greek: dê] cf. Jelf, Gk. Gr. § 723, 2.
[19] Elmsley's reading, [Greek: petra ... tade], is preferred by
Dindorf, and seems more suitable to the passage. But if we read
[Greek: taisde], it will come to the same thing, retaining [Greek:
petrais].
[20] Surely we should read this sentence interrogatively, as in v.
99, [Greek: pê pote mochthôn Chrê termata tônd' epiteilai;] although
the editions do not agree as to that passage. So Burges.
[21] Nominativus Pendens. Soph, Antig. 259, [Greek: logoi d' en
allêloisin errothoun kakoi, phylax elenchôn phylaka], where see
Wunder, and Elmsley on Eur. Heracl.
40. But it is probably only the [Greek: schêma kath' holon kai
meros], on which see Jelf, Gk. Gr. § 478, and the same thing takes
place with the accusative, as in Antig. 21, sq. 561. See Erfurdt
on 21.
[22] See Linwood's Lexicon, s. v. [Greek: ameibô], whose construing
I have followed.
[23] Cf. Virg. Æn. I. 167, "Intus aquæ dulces, vivoque sedilia
saxo."
"The rudest habitation, ye might think That it had sprung from earth
self-raised, or grown Out of the living rock."--Wordsworth's
Excursion, Book vi.
Compare a most picturesque description of Diana's cave, in Apul.
Met. II. p. 116; Elm. Telemachus, Book I.; Undine, ch. viii.; Lane's
Arabian Nights, vol. iii. p. 385.
[24] Although Dindorf has left [Greek: ÔKEANOS] before the lines
beginning with [Greek: ou dêta], yet as he in his notes, p. 54,
approves of the opinion of Elmsley (to which the majority of critics
assent), I have continued them to Prometheus. Dindorf (after Burges)
remarks that the particles [Greek: ou dêta] deceived the copyists,
who thought that they pointed to the commencement of a new speaker's
address.The day before Annette graduated Mr. Thomas had met a friend of his at
Mrs. Lasette's, who had lately returned from an extensive tour. He had
mingled with many people and had acquired a large store of information.
Mr. Thomas had invited him to accompany him to the commencement. He had
expected that Annette would acquit herself creditably, but she had far
exceeded his most sanguine expectations. Clarence Luzerne had come
because his friend Mr. Thomas had invited him and because he and Mrs.
Lasette had taken such great interest in Annette's welfare, and his
curiosity was excited to see how she would acquit herself and compare
with the other graduates. He did not have much faith in graduating
essays. He had heard a number of such compositions at commencements
which had inspired him with glowing hopes for the future of the authors,
which he had never seen realized, and he had come more to gratify Mr.
Thomas than to please himself. But if he came through curiosity, he
remained through interest, which had become more and more absorbing as
she proceeded.

"Clarence," said Mr. Thomas to his friend, noticing the deep interest he
was manifesting, "Are you entranced? You appear perfectly spell-bound."

"Well, I am; I am really delighted and indebted to you for a rare and
unexpected pleasure. Why, that young lady gave the finest production
that I have heard this morning. I hardly think she could have written it
herself. It seems wonderful that a girl of her age should have done it
so well. You are a great friend of hers; now own up, are not your finger
marks upon it? I wouldn't tell it out of our ranks, but I don't think
she wrote that all herself."

"Who do you think wrote it for her?"

"Mrs. Lasette."

"I do not think so; Mrs. Lasette is a fine writer, but that nervous,
fervid and impassioned style is so unlike hers, that I do not think she
wrote one line of it, though she might have overlooked it, and made
some suggestions, but even if it were so that some one else wrote it, we
know that no one else delivered it, and that her delivery was
excellent."

"That is so; why, she excelled all the other girls. Do you know what was
the difference between her and the other girls?"

"No; what was it?" said Mr. Thomas.

"They wrote from their heads, she wrote from her heart. Annette has
begun to think; she has been left a great deal to herself, and in her
loneliness, she has developed a thoughtfulness past her years, and I
think that a love for her race and a desire to serve it has become a
growing passion in her soul; her heart has supplied her intellect."

"Ah, I think from what you say that I get the true clue to the power and
pathos with which she spoke this morning and that accounts for her
wonderful success."

"Yes," said Mr. Luzerne,[14] "it is the inner life which develops the
outer life, and just such young people as Annette make me more hopeful
of the future of the race."

Mrs. Lasette witnessed Annette's graduation with intense interest and
pleasure. Grandmother Harcourt looked the very impersonation of
satisfaction as she gathered up the floral gifts, and modestly waited
while Annette received the pleasant compliments of admiring friends.

At his request Mr. Thomas introduced Mr. Luzerne to Annette, who in the
most gracious and affable manner, tendered to Annette his hearty
congratulations which she modestly received, and for the time being all
went merry as a marriage bell.


Chapter XIII


"What a fool he is to refuse my offer," thought the saloon-keeper.
"What a pity it is," said Mr. Thomas to himself, "that a man of his
education and ability should be engaged in such accursed business."

After refusing the saloonkeeper's offer Mr. Thomas found a job of
work. It was not a job congenial to his feelings, but his motto was,
"If I do not see an opening I will make one." After he had turned
from Mr. Englishman's workshop, burning with a sense of wrong which
he felt powerless to overcome, he went on the levee and looked around
to see if any work might be picked up by him as a day laborer. He saw
a number of men singing, joking and plying their tasks with nimble
feet and apparently no other care upon their minds than meeting the
demands of the present hour, and for a moment he almost envied their
lightheartedness, and he thought within himself, where all men are born
blind, no man misses the light. These men are contented with privileges,
and I who have fitted myself for a different sphere in life, am chaffing
because I am denied rights. The right to sell my labor in any workshop
in this city same as the men of other nationalities, and to receive with
them a fair day's wages for a fair day's work. But he was strong and
healthy and he was too high spirited to sit moping at home depending
upon his mother to divide with him her scanty means till something
should turn up. The first thing that presented itself to him was the job
of helping unload a boat which had landed at the wharf, and a hand was
needed to assist in unloading her. Mr. Thomas accepted the position and
went to work and labored manfully at the unaccustomed task. That being
finished the merchant for whom he had done the work, hired him to labor
in his warehouse. He showed himself very handy in making slight repairs
when needed and being ready to turn his hand to any service out of his
routine of work, hammering a nail, adjusting a disordered lock and
showing a general concern in his employer's interests. One day his
employer had engaged a carpenter to make him a counter, but the man
instead of attending to his work had been off on a drunken spree, and
neglected to do the job. The merchant, vexed at the unnecessary delay,
said to Mr. Thomas in a bantering manner, "I believe you can do almost
anything, couldn't you make this counter?"

Mr. Thomas answered quite modestly, "I believe I could if I had my
tools."

"Tools! What do you mean by tools?"

Mr. Thomas told him how he learned to be a carpenter in the South and
how he had tried so unsuccessfully in the North to get an opportunity to
work at his trade until discouraged with the attempt, he had made up his
mind to take whatever work came to hand till he could see farther.

The merchant immediately procured the materials and set Mr. Thomas to
work, who in a short time finished the counter, and showed by his
workmanship that he was an excellent carpenter. The merchant pleased
with his work and satisfied with his ability, entrusted him with the
erection of a warehouse and, strange as it may appear, some of those men
who were too proud or foolish to work with him as a fellow laborer, were
humble enough to work under him as journeymen. When he was down they
were ready to kick him down. When he was up they were ready to receive
his helping hand. Mr. Thomas soon reached that "tide in his affairs
which taken at the flood leads on to fortune." Against the odds which
were against him his pluck and perseverance prevailed, and he was
enabled not only to build up a good business for himself, but also to
help others, and to teach them by his own experience not to be too
easily discouraged, but to trust to pluck more than luck, and learn in
whatever capacity they were employed to do their work heartily as unto
the Lord and not unto men.

Anxious to do what she could to benefit the community in which she
lived, Mrs. Lasette threw open her parlors for the gathering together
of the best thinkers and workers of the race, who choose to avail
themselves of the privilege of meeting to discuss any question of vital
importance to the welfare of the colored people of the nation. What with
him who hath lately seated himself on the throne that ruleth over
all?

PR. Beware of him lest at any time his heart be moved to wrath.

OC. Thy disaster, Prometheus, is my monitor.

PR. Away! withdraw thee, keep thy present determination.

OC. On me, hastening to start, hast thou urged this injunction; for my
winged quadruped flaps with his pinions the smooth track of æther; and
blithely would he recline his limbs in his stalls at home.

[_Exit_ OC.

CH. I bewail thee for thy lost fate, Prometheus. A flood of trickling
tears from my yielding eyes has bedewed my cheek with its humid gushings;
for Jupiter commanding this thine unenviable doom by laws of his
own, displays his spear appearing superior o'er the gods of old.[28]
And now the whole land echoes with wailing--they wail thy stately and
time-graced honors, and those of thy brethren; and all they of mortal
race that occupy a dwelling neighboring on hallowed Asia[29] mourn
with thy deeply-deplorable sufferings: the virgins that dwell in the
land of Colchis too, fearless of the fight, and the Scythian horde who
possess the most remote regions of earth around lake Mæotis; and
the war-like flower of Arabia,[30] who occupy a fortress on the
craggy heights in the neighborhood of Caucasus, a warrior-host,
clamoring amid sharply-barbed spears.

One other god only, indeed, have I heretofore beheld in miseries,
the Titan Atlas, subdued by the galling of adamantine[31] bonds,
who evermore in his back is groaning beneath[32] the excessive
mighty mass of the pole of heaven.

And the billow of the deep roars as it falls in cadence, the depth
moans, and the murky vault of Hades rumbles beneath the earth,
and the fountains of the pure streaming rivers wail for his
piteous pains.

PR. Do not, I pray you, suppose that I am holding my peace from
pride or self-will; but by reflection am I gnawed to the heart,
seeing myself thus ignominiously entreated.[33] And yet who but
myself defined completely the prerogative for these same new gods?

But on these matters I say nothing, for I should speak to you already
acquainted with these things.

But for the misfortunes that existed among mortals, hear how I made
them, that aforetime lived as infants, rational and possessed of
intellect.[34] And I will tell you, having no complaint against mankind,
as detailing the kindness of the boons which I bestowed upon them: they
who at first seeing saw in vain, hearing they heard not. But, like to
the forms of dreams, for a long time they used to huddle together all
things at random, and naught knew they about brick-built[35] and sun-ward
houses, nor carpentry; but they dwelt in the excavated earth like
tiny emmets in the sunless depths of caverns.

And they had no sure sign either of winter, or of flowery spring, or of
fruitful summer; but they used to do every thing without judgment,
until indeed I showed to them the risings of the stars and their
settings,[36] hard to be discerned.

And verily I discover for them Numbers, the surpassing all
inventions,[37] the combinations too of letters, and Memory, effective
mother-nurse of all arts.

I also first bound with yokes beasts submissive to the collars; and
in order that with their bodies they might become to mortals substitutes
for their severest toils, I brought steeds under cars obedient
to the rein,[38] a glory to pompous luxury.
And none other than I invented the canvas-winged chariots of mariners
that roam over the ocean. After discovering for mortals such inventions,
wretch that I am, I myself have no device whereby I may escape from
my present misery.

CH. Thou hast suffered unseemly ills, baulked in thy discretion
thou art erring; and like a bad physician, having fallen into a
distemper thou art faint-hearted, and, in reference to thyself,
thou canst not discover by what manner of medicines thou mayest be
cured.Lasette, who are so willing to help, for the purpose of holding mother's
meetings. I would try to have the church the great centre of moral,
spiritual and intellectual life for the young, and try to present
counter attractions to the debasing influence of the low grogshops,
gambling dens and houses of ill fame."

"Part of our city (ought I confine myself to saying part of the city)
has not the whole city been cursed by rum? But I now refer to a special
part. I have seen church after church move out of that part of the city
where the nuisance and curse were so rife, but I never, to my knowledge,
heard of one of those churches offering to build a reading room and
evening home for boys, or to send out paid and sustained by their
efforts, a single woman to go into rum-cursed homes and teach their
inmates a more excellent way. I would have in that parish building the
most earnest men and women to come together and consult and counsel
with each other on the best means to open for ourselves, doors which
are still closed against us."

"I am sure," said the minister, "I am willing to do what I can for the
temporal and spiritual welfare of our people, and in this I have the
example of the great Physician who did not consider it beneath him to
attend to physical maladies as well as spiritual needs, and who did not
consider the synagogue too holy, nor the Sabbath day too sacred to
administer to the destitute and suffering."

"I was very sorry when I found out, Brother Thomas, that I could not
have you employed on my church, but I do not see what else I could have
done except submit."

"That was all you could have done in that stage of the work when I
applied, and I do not wish to bestow the slightest censure on you or the
trustees of your church, but I think, if when you were about to build
had you advertised for competent master-builders in the South, that you
could have gotten enough to have built the church without having
employed Mr. Hoog the master-builder. Had you been able to have gone to
him and said, 'we are about to build a church and it is more convenient
for us to have it done by our citizens than to send abroad for laborers.
We are in communication with a colored master builder in Kentucky, who
is known as an efficient workman and who would be glad to get the job,
and if your men refuse to work with a colored man our only alternative
will be to send for colored carpenters and put the building in their
hands.' Do you think he would have refused a thirty thousand dollar job
just because some of his men refused to work with colored men? I think
the greater portion of his workmen would have held their prejudices in
abeyance rather than let a thirty thousand dollar job slip out of their
hands. Now here is another thing in which I think united effort could
have effected something. Now, here is my friend Mr. Thurman; he was a
saddler versed in both branches of harness making. For awhile he got
steady work in a saddler's shop, but the prejudice against him was so
great that his employer was forced to dismiss him. He took work home,
but that did not heal the dissatisfaction, and at last he gave it up
and went to well-digging. Now, there were colored men in that place
who could have, as I think, invested some money in buying material
and helped him, not as a charity, but as a mere business operation
to set up a place for himself; he had the skill; they had the money,
and had they united both perhaps to-day there would be a flourishing
business carried on by the man who is now digging wells for a living.
I do hope that some time there will be some better modes of
communication between us than we now possess; that a labor bureau
will be established not as a charity among us, but as a business
with capable and efficient men who will try to find out the different
industries that will employ men irrespective of color and advertise
and find steady and reliable colored men to fill them. Wherefore
'tis probable that the combatants will fare accordingly; and to Hyperbius,
in accordance with its blazonry, may Jove that is on his shield
become a savior.

CH. I feel confident that he who hath upon his shield the adversary of
Jove, the hateful form of the subterranean fiend, a semblance hateful
both to mortals and the everliving gods, will have to leave his head
before our gates.

MES. May such be the issue!

But, farthermore, I mention the fifth, marshaled at the fifth gate,
that of Boreas, by the very tomb of Jove-born Amphion.

And he makes oath by the spear[138] which he grasps, daring to revere
it more than a god, and more dearly than his eyes,[139] that verily
he will make havoc of the city of the Cadmæans in spite of Jove:
thus says the fair-faced scion of a mountain-dwelling mother, a
stripling hero, and the down is just making its way through his
cheeks, in the spring of his prime, thick sprouting hair.

  And he takes his post, having a
  ruthless spirit, not answering to his maidenly name,[140] and a
savage aspect.

Yet not without his vaunt does he take stand against our gates, for on his
brazen-forged shield the rounded bulwark of his body, he was wielding the
reproach of our city, the Sphinx of ruthless maw affixed by means of
studs, a gleaming embossed form; and under her she holds a man, one
of the Cadmæans, so that against this man[141] most shafts are hurled.

They knew nothing of heredity, except its effects,
which they were not thoughtful enough to trace back to the causes over
which Annette had no control, and instead of trying to counteract them
as one might strive to do in a case of inherited physical tendencies,
they only aggravated, and constantly strengthened all the unlovely
features in Annette's character, and Annette really seemed like an
anomalous contradiction. There was a duality about her nature as if
the blood of two races were mingling in her veins. To some persons
Annette was loving and love-able, bright, intelligent, obliging and
companionable; to others, unsociable, unamiable and repelling. Her heart
was like a harp which sent out its harmonious discords in accordance
with the moods of the player who touched its chords. To some who swept
them it gave out tender and touching melody, to others its harshest and
saddest discords. Did not the Psalmist look beneath the mechanism of the
body to the constitution of the soul when he said that "We are fearfully
and wonderfully made?"

But the hour came when all discussion was ended as to who was to shelter
the dear old grandmother in her declining years. Mrs. Harcourt was
suddenly paralyzed, and in a few days Annette stood doubly orphaned.
Grandmother Harcourt's children gathered around the bedside of their
dying mother. She was conscious but unable to speak. Occasionally her
eyes would rest lovingly upon Annette and then turn wistfully to her
children. Several times she assayed to speak, but the words died upon
her lips. Her eldest son entered the room just as life was trembling on
its faintest chords. She recognized him, and gathering up her remaining
strength she placed his hand on Annette's, and tried again to speak. He
understood her and said very tenderly,

"Mother, I will look after Annette."

All the care faded from the dear old face. Amid the shadows that never
deceive flitted a smile of peace and contentment. The fading eye lit up
with a sudden gaze of joy and wonder. She reached out her hand as if to
meet a welcome and precious friend, and then the radiant face grew
deathly pale; the outstretched hands relaxed their position, and with a
smile, just such a smile as might greet a welcoming angel, her spirit
passed out into the eternities, and Annette felt as she had never felt
before, that she was all alone. The love that had surrounded and watched
over her, born with her perverseness, and sheltered her in its warm
clasp, was gone; it had faded suddenly from her vision, and left in its
stead a dull and heavy pain. After the funeral, Mrs. Harcourt's children
returned to the house where they quietly but earnestly discussed the
question what shall be done with Annette. Mrs. Hanson's house was rather
small; that is, it was rather small for Annette. She would have found
room in her house if she only had room in her heart for her. She had
nursed her mother through her sickness, and said with unnatural
coldness, "I have got rid of one trouble and I do not want another."
Another sister who lived some distance from A.P., would have taken
Annette, but she knew that other members of her family would object, as
they would be fearful that Annette would be an apple of discord among
them. At length, her uncle Thomas decided that she should go with him.
He felt that his mother had died with the assurance on her mind that he
would care for Annette, and he resolved to be faithful in accepting what
was to him the imposition of a new burden on his shoulders. His wife was
a cold and unsympathizing woman. She was comfortably situated but did
not wish that comfort invaded by her husband's relations. In household
matters her husband generally deferred to her judgment, but here was no
other alternative than that of taking Annette under the shadow of his
home, or leaving her unprotected in the wide world, and he was too
merciful and honorable to desert Annette in her saddest hour of need.
Having determined that Annette should share his home, he knew that it
was advisable to tell his wife about his decision, and to prepare her
for Annette's coming.

"Well," said Dr. Harcourt's wife after her husband's return from the
funeral, "what are you going to do with Annette?"

"She is coming here," said Dr. Harcourt quietly and firmly.

"Coming here?" said Mrs. Harcourt, looking aghast. "I think at least you
might have consulted me."

"That is true, my dear, I would have gladly done so had you been present
when the decision was made."

"But where are her aunts, and where was your brother, John; why didn't
they take her?"

"John was at home sick with the rheumatism and sister Jane did not
appear to be willing to have her come."

"I guess Jane is like I am; got enough to do to look after her own
family."

"And sister Eliza said she hadn't any room."

"No room; when she has eight rooms in her house and only two children?
She could have made room for her had she chosen."

"May be her husband wasn't willing."

"Oh, it is no such thing. I know John Hanson[15] better than that; Liza
is the head man of that house, and just leads him by the nose wherever
she wants him to go, and besides, Mrs. Lord's daughter is there
pretending to pay board, but I don't believe that she pays it one-half
the time."

"She is company for Alice and they all seem very fond of her."

"I do get so sick of that girl, mambying and jambying about that family;
calling Liza and her husband 'Ma and Pa,' I haven't a bit of faith in
her."

"Well, I confess that I am not very much preposessed in her favor. She
just puts me in mind of a pussy cat purring around you."

"Well, now as to Annette. You do not want her here?"

"Not if I can help it."

"But can't she help you to work?"

which a city undergoes when it has been reduced. One drags another,[117]
slaughters, and to parts he sets fire--the whole city is defiled with
smoke, and raving Mars that tramples down the nations, violating
piety, inspires them.

Throughout the town are uproars, against the city rises the turreted
circumvallation,[118] and man is slain by man with the spear.

And the cries of children at the breast all bloody resound, and there
is rapine sister of pell-mell confusion. Pillager meets pillager, and the
empty-handed shouts to the empty-handed, wishing to have a partner,
greedy for a portion that shall be neither less nor equal. What of
these things can speech picture? Fruits of every possible kind strewn[119]
upon the ground occasion sorrow, and dismal is the face of the stewards.
And full many a gift of earth is swept along in the worthless
streams, in undistinguished medley.

And young female slaves have new sorrows, a foe being superior[120]
and fortunate as to their wretched captive couch, so that they hope
for life's gloomy close to come, a guardian against their all-mournful
sorrows.

SEMI-CH.

The scout, methinks, my friends, is bringing us some fresh tidings
from the army, urging in haste the forwarding axles[121] of his
feet.

SEMI-CH.

Ay, and in very truth, here comes our prince, son of OEdipus, very
opportunely for learning the messenger's report--and haste does
not allow him to make equal footsteps.[122]
[_Re-enter_ MESSENGER _and_ ETEOCLES _from different sides_.

MES.

I would fain tell, for I know them well, the arrangements of our
adversaries, and how each has obtained his lot at our gate.

Tydeus now for some time has been raging hard by the gates of Proetus;
but the seer allows him not to cross the stream of Ismenus, for the
sacrifices are not auspicious. So Tydeus, raving and greedy for the fight,
roars like a serpent in its hissings beneath the noontide heat, and
he smites the sage seer, son of Oïcleus, with a taunt, [saying] that
he is crouching to both Death and Battle out of cowardice. Shouting out
such words as these, he shakes there shadowy crests, the hairy honors
of his helm, while beneath his buckler bells cast in brass are shrilly
pealing terror: on his buckler too he has this arrogant device--a
gleaming sky tricked out with stars, and in the centre of the shield
a brilliant full moon is conspicuous, most august of the heavenly bodies,
the eye of night. Chafing thus in his vaunting harness, he roars beside
the bank of the river, enamored of conflict, like a steed
champing his bit with rage, that rushes forth when he hears the voice
of the trumpet.[123] Whom wilt thou marshal against this [foe]? Who,
when the fastenings give way, is fit to be intrusted with the defense of
the gate of Proetus?

ET. At no possible array of a man should I tremble; and blazonry has
no power of inflicting wounds, and crests and bell bite not[124] without
the spear.
The beautiful
home of her uncle was very different from the humble apartments; here
she missed all the freedom and sunshine that she had enjoyed beneath the
shelter of her grandmother's roof.

"Can you sew?" said her aunt to Annette, as she laid on the table a
package of handkerchiefs.

"Yes ma'm."

"Let me see how you can do this," handing her one to hem. Annette hemmed
the handkerchief nicely; her aunt examined it, put it down and gave her
some others to hem, but there was no word of encouragement for her, not
even a pleasant, "well done." They both relapsed into silence; between
them there was no pleasant interchange of thought. Annette was tolerated
and endured, but she did not feel that she was loved and welcomed. It
was no place to which she could invite her young friends to spend a
pleasant evening. Once she invited some of her young friends to her
home, but she soon found that it was a liberty which she should be
careful never to repeat. Soon after Annette came to live with her aunt
her aunt's mother had a social gathering and reunion of the members of
her family. All Dr. Harcourt's children were invited, from the least to
the greatest, but poor Annette was left behind. Mrs. Lasette, who
happened in the house the evening before the entertainment, asked, "Is
not Annette going?" when Mrs. Harcourt replied, very coldly, "She is not
one of the family," referring to her mother's family circle.

A shadow flitted over the face of Mrs. Lasette; she thought of her own
daughter and how sad it would be to have her live in such a chilly
atmosphere of social repression and neglect at a period of life when
there was so much danger that false friendship might spread their lures
for her inexperienced feet. I will criticize, she said to herself, by
creation. I, too, have some social influence, if not among the careless,
wine-bibbing, ease-loving votaries of fashion, among some of the most
substantial people of A.P., and as long as Annette preserves her
rectitude at my house she shall be a welcome guest and into that
saddened life I will bring all the sunshine that I can.


Chapter XV


"Well mama," said Mrs. Lasette's daughter to her mother, "I cannot
understand why you take so much interest in Annette. She is very
unpopular. Scarcely any of the girls ever go with her, and even her
cousin never calls for her to go to church or anywhere else, and I
sometimes feel so sorry to see her so much by herself, and some of the
girls when I went with her to the exposition, said that they wouldn't
have asked her to have gone with them, that she isn't our set."

"Poor child," Mrs. Lasette replied; "I am sorry for her. I hope that you
will never treat her unkindly, and I do not think if you knew the sad
story connected with her life that you would ever be unkind enough to
add to the burden she has been forced to bear."

"But mamma, Annette is so touchy. Her aunt says that her tear bags must
lay near her eyes and that she will cry if you look at her, and that she
is the strangest, oddest creature she ever saw, and I heard she did not
wish her to come."

"Why, my dear child, who has been gossipping to you about your
neighbors?"

"Why, Julia Thomas."

"Well, my daughter, don't talk after her; gossip is liable to degenerate
into evil speaking and then I think it tends to degrade and belittle the
mind to dwell on the defects and imperfections of our neighbors. VULCAN.
Strength and Force, as far as you are concerned, the mandate of Jupiter
has now[5] its consummation, and there is no farther obstacle.

But I have not the courage to bind perforce a kindred god to this
weather-beaten ravine.

Yet in every way it is necessary for me to take courage for this
task; for a dreadful thing it is to disregard[6] the directions of
the Sire.[7] Lofty-scheming son of right-counseling Themis, unwilling
shall I rivet thee unwilling in indissoluble shackles to this
solitary rock, where nor voice nor form of any one of mortals shalt
thou see;[8] but slowly scorched by the bright blaze of the sun
thou shalt lose the bloom of thy complexion; and to thee joyous
shall night in spangled robe[9] veil the light; and the sun again
disperse the hoar-frost of the morn; and evermore shall the pain
of the present evil waste thee; for no one yet born shall release
thee.

Such fruits hast thou reaped from thy friendly disposition to
mankind.

For thou, a god, not crouching beneath the wrath of the gods, hast
imparted to mortals honors beyond what was right.

In requital whereof thou shalt keep sentinel on this cheerless rock,
standing erect, sleepless, not bending a knee:[10] and many laments
and unavailing groans shalt thou utter; for the heart of Jupiter is
hard to be entreated; and every one that has newly-acquired power is
stern.

ST. Well, well! Why art thou delaying and vainly commiserating? Why
loathest thou not the god that is most hateful to the gods, who has
betrayed thy prerogative to mortals?

VUL. Relationship and intimacy are of great power.

ST. I grant it--but how is it possible to disobey the Sire's word?

Dreadest thou not this the rather?

VUL. Ay truly thou art ever pitiless and full of boldness.

ST. For to deplore this wretch is no cure [for him]. But concern not thou
thyself vainly with matters that are of no advantage.

VUL. O much detested handicraft!

ST. Wherefore loathest thou it! for with the ills now present thy craft
in good truth is not at all chargeable.

VUL. For all that, I would that some other had obtained this.

ST. Every thing has been achieved except for the gods to rule; for no one
is free save Jupiter.[11]
VUL. I know it--and I have nothing to say against it.[12]
ST. Wilt thou not then bestir thyself to cast fetters about this
wretch, that the Sire may not espy thee loitering?

VUL. Ay, and in truth you may see the manacles ready.

ST. Take them, and with mighty force clench them with the mallet about
his hands: rivet him close to the crags.

VUL. This work of ours is speeding to its consummation and loiters
not.

ST. Smite harder, tighten, slacken at no point, for he hath cunning to
find outlets even from impracticable difficulties.

VUL. This arm at all events is fastened inextricably.

ST. And now clasp this securely, that he may perceive himself to be a
duller contriver than Jupiter.

VUL. Save this [sufferer], no one could with reason find fault with
me.

ST. Now by main force rivet the ruthless fang of an adamantine
wedge right through his breast.[13]
VUL. Alas! alas! Prometheus, I sigh over thy sufferings.

ST. Again thou art hanging back, and sighest thou over the enemies of
Jupiter? Look to it, that thou hast not at some time to mourn for
thyself.

VUL. Thou beholdest a spectacle ill-sighted to the eye.

ST. I behold this wretch receiving his deserts. But fling thou these
girths round his sides.

VUL. I must needs do this; urge me not very much.

ST.

Ay, but I will urge thee, and set thee on too. Move downward, and strongly
link his legs.

VUL. And in truth the task is done with no long toil.

ST. With main force now smite the galling fetters, since stern indeed
is the inspector of this work.

VUL. Thy tongue sounds in accordance with thy form.

ST. Yield thou to softness, but taunt not me with ruthlessness and harshness
of temper.

VUL. Let us go; since he hath the shackles about his limbs.

ST. There now be insolent; and after pillaging the prerogatives of
the gods, confer them on creatures of a day. In what will mortals be able
to alleviate these agonies of thine? By no true title do the divinities
call thee Prometheus; for thou thyself hast need of a Prometheus, by
means of which you will slip out of this fate.[14]
[_Exeunt_ STRENGTH _and_ FORCE.

PROMETHEUS. O divine æther, and ye swift-winged breezes, and ye fountains
of rivers, and countless dimpling[15] of the waves of the deep, and thou
earth, mother of all--and to the all-seeing orb of the Sun I appeal;
look upon me, what treatment I, a god, am enduring at the hand of
the gods!

Behold with what indignities mangled I shall have to wrestle through time
of years innumerable. Such an ignominious bondage hath the new ruler of
the immortals devised against me. Alas! alas! I sigh over the present
suffering, and that which is coming on. How, where must a termination
of these toils arise? And yet what is it I am saying?
I know beforehand all futurity exactly, and no suffering will come upon
me unlooked-for. But I needs must bear my doom as easily as may be,
knowing as I do, that the might of Necessity can not be resisted.

But yet it is not possible for me either to hold my peace, or not to hold
my peace touching these my fortunes. For having bestowed boons upon
mortals, I am enthralled unhappy in these hardships. And I am
he that searched out the source of fire, by stealth borne-off
inclosed in a fennel-rod,[16] which has shown itself a teacher of
every art to mortals, and a great resource.

Such then as this is the vengeance that I endure for my trespasses, being
riveted in fetters beneath the naked sky.

Hah! what sound, what ineffable odor[17] hath been wafted to me,
emanating from a god, or from mortal, or of some intermediate nature?
Has there come anyone to the remote rock as a spectator of my
sufferings, or with what intent!

[18] Behold me an ill-fated god in durance, the foe of Jupiter, him
that hath incurred the detestation of all the gods who frequent the
court of Jupiter, by reason of my excessive friendliness to mortals.

Alas! alas! what can this hasty motion of birds be which I again
hear hard by me? The air too is whistling faintly with the whirrings of
pinions. Every thing that approaches is to me an object of dread.

CHORUS. Dread thou nothing; for this is a friendly band that has come with
the fleet rivalry of their pinions to this rock, after prevailing
with difficulty on the mind of our father. And the swiftly-wafting
breezes escorted me; for the echo of the clang of steel pierced to the
recess of our grots, and banished my demure-looking reserve; and I sped
without my sandals in my winged chariot.

PR. Alas! alas! ye offspring of prolific Thetys, and daughters of Ocean
your sire, who rolls around the whole earth in his unslumbering stream;
look upon me, see clasped in what bonds I shall keep an unenviable
watch on the topmost crags of this ravine.

CH.

I see, Prometheus: and a fearful mist full of tears darts over mine
eyes, as I looked on thy frame withering on the rocks[19] in these
galling adamantine fetters: for new pilots are the masters of Olympus;
and Jove, contrary to right, lords it with new laws, and things
aforetime had in reverence he is obliterating.

PR. Oh would that he had sent me beneath the earth, and below into
the boundless Tartarus of Hades that receives the dead, after savagely
securing me in indissoluble bonds, so that no god at any time, nor
any other being, had exulted in this my doom. Whereas now, hapless one,
I, the sport of the winds, suffer pangs that gladden my foes.

CH. Who of the gods is so hard-hearted as that these things should be
grateful to him? Who is there that sympathizes not with thy sufferings,
Jove excepted? He, indeed, in his wrath, assuming an inflexible temper,
is evermore oppressing the celestial race! nor will he cease before that
either he shall have sated his heart, or some one by some stratagem
shall have seized upon his sovereignity that will be no easy prize.

PR. In truth hereafter the president of the immortals[20] shall have need
of me, albeit that I am ignominiously suffering in stubborn shackles, to
discover to him the new plot by which he is to be despoiled of his
sceptre and his honors.

But neither shall he win me by the honey-tongued charms of persuasion;
nor will I at any time, crouching beneath his stern threats, divulge
this matter, before he shall have released me from my cruel bonds,
and shall be willing to yield me retribution for this outrage.

CH. Thou indeed both art bold, and yieldest nought to thy bitter calamities,
but art over free in thy language. But piercing terror is worrying my
soul; for I fear for thy fortunes. How, when will it be thy destiny to
make the haven and see the end of these thy sufferings? for the son
of Saturn has manners that supplication cannot reach, and an inexorable
heart.

PR.

I know that Jupiter is harsh, and keeps justice to himself; but for
all that he shall hereafter be softened in purpose, when he shall
be crushed in this way; and, after calming his unyielding temper
with eagerness will he hereafter come into league and friendship
with me that will eagerly [welcome him].

CH.

Unfold and speak out to us the whole story, from what accusation has
Jupiter seized thee, and is thus disgracefully and bitterly tormenting
thee. Inform us, if thou be in no respect hurt by the recital.

PR. Painful indeed are these things for me to tell, and painful too
for me to hold my peace, and in every way grievous. As soon as the
divinities began discord, and a feud was stirred up among them with one
another--one party[21] wishing to eject Saturn from his throne,
in order forsooth that Jupiter might be king, and others expediting
the reverse, that Jupiter might at no time rule over the gods: then
I, when I gave the best advice, was not able to prevail upon the
Titans, children of Uranus and Terra; but they, contemning in their
stout spirits wily schemes, fancied that without any trouble, and
by dint of main force, they were to win the sovereignty.

But it was not once only that my mother Themis, and Terra, a single
person with many titles, had forewarned me of the way in which the
future would be accomplished; how it was destined, that, not by
main force, nor by the strong hand, but by craft the victors should
prevail.

When, however, I explained such points in discourse, they deigned not to
pay me any regard at all. Of the plans which then presented themselves
to me, the best appeared that I should take my mother and promptly
side with Jupiter, who was right willing [to receive us].

And 'tis by means of my counsels that the murky abyss of Tartarus
overwhelms the antique Saturn, allies and all.

After thus being assisted by me, the tyrant of the gods hath
recompensed me with this foul recompense.

For somehow this malady attaches to tyranny, not to put confidence in its
friends. But for your inquiries upon what charge is it that he outrages
me, this I will make clear. As soon as he has established himself on
his father's throne, he assigns forthwith to the different divinities
each his honors, and he was marshaling in order his empire; but of
woe-begone mortals he made no account, but wished, after having annihilated
the entire race, to plant another new one. And these schemes no one
opposed except myself: But I dared: I ransomed mortals from being utterly
destroyed, and going down to Hades. 'Tis for this, in truth, that I am
bent by sufferings such as these, agonizing to endure, and piteous to
look upon. I that had compassion for mortals, have myself been deemed
unworthy to obtain this, but mercilessly am thus coerced to order,
a spectacle inglorious to Jupiter.

CH. Iron-hearted and formed of rock too, Prometheus, is he, who condoles
not with thy toils: for I could have wished never to have beheld them,
and now, when I behold them, I am pained in my heart.

  PR. Ay, in very deed I am a piteous
   object for friends to behold.

CH. And didst thou chance to advance even beyond this?

PR. Yes! I prevented mortals from foreseeing their doom.

CH. By finding what remedy for this malady?

PR. I caused blind hopes to dwell within them.

CH.

In this thou gavest a mighty benefit to mortals.

PR. Over and above these boons, however, I imparted fire to them.

CH. And do the creatures of a day now possess bright fire?

PR. Yes--from which they will moreover learn thoroughly many arts.

CH. Is it indeed on charges such as these that Jupiter is both visiting
thee with indignities, and in no wise grants thee a respite from thy
pains? And is no period to thy toils set before thee?

PR. None other assuredly, but when it may please him.

CH. And how shall it be his good pleasure? What hope is there?

Seest thou not that thou didst err?

but how thou didst err, I can not relate with pleasure, and it would be
a pain to you. But let us leave these points, and search thou for some
escape from thine agony.

PR. 'Tis easy, for any one that hath his foot unentangled by sufferings,
both to exhort and to admonish him that is in evil plight.

But I knew all these things willingly, willingly I erred, I will
not gainsay it; and in doing service to mortals I brought upon
myself sufferings.

Yet not at all did I imagine, that, in such a punishment as this,
I was to wither away upon lofty rocks, meeting with this desolate
solitary crag.

And yet wail ye not over my present sorrows, but after alighting
on the ground, list ye to the fortune that is coming on, that ye
may learn the whole throughout.

Yield to me, yield ye, take ye a share in the woes of him that is now
suffering. Hence in the same way doth calamity, roaming to and
fro, settle down on different individuals.

CH.

Upon those who are nothing loth hast thou urged this, Prometheus:
and now having with light step quitted my rapidly-wafted chariot-seat,
and the pure æther, highway of the feathered race, I will draw near
to this rugged ground: and I long to hear the whole tale of thy
sufferings.

_Enter_ OCEAN.

I am arrived at the end of a long journey,[22] having passed over
[it] to thee, Prometheus, guiding this winged steed of mine, swift
of pinion, by my will, without a bit; and, rest assured, I sorrow with
thy misfortunes. For both the tie of kindred thus constrains me,
and, relationship apart, there is no one on whom I would bestow a larger
share [of my regard] than to thyself. And thou shalt know that these
words are sincere, and that it is not in me vainly to do lip-service;
for come, signify to me in what it is necessary for me to assist thee;
for at no time shalt thou say that thou hast a stancher friend than
Oceanus.

PR. Hah! what means this? and hast thou too come to be a witness of my
pangs? How hast thou ventured, after quitting both the stream that
bears thy name, and the rock-roofed self-wrought[23] grots, to come
into the iron teeming land? Is it that you may contemplate my misfortunes,
and as sympathizing with my woes that thou hast come? Behold a spectacle,
me here the friend of Jupiter, that helped to establish his sovereignty,
with what pains I am bent by him.

OC. I see, Prometheus, and to thee, subtle as thou art, I wish to give
the best counsel. Know thyself, and assume to thyself new manners; for
among the gods too there is a new monarch. But if thou wilt utter words
thus harsh and whetted, Jupiter mayhap, though seated far aloft, will
hear thee, so that the present bitterness of sufferings will seem to
thee to be child's play. But, O hapless one! dismiss the passion which
thou feelest, and search for a deliverance from these sufferings of
thine. Old-fashioned maxims these, it may be, I appear to thee to
utter; yet such becomes the wages of the tongue that talks too proudly.
But not even yet art thou humble, nor submittest to ills; and in addition
to those that already beset thee, thou art willing to bring others
upon thee. Yet not, if at least thou takest me for thy instructor,
wilt thou stretch out thy leg against the pricks; as thou seest that a
harsh monarch, and one that is not subject to control, is lording it.
And now I for my part will go, and will essay, if I be able, to disinthrall
thee from these thy pangs. But be thou still, nor be over impetuous
in thy language. What! knowest thou not exactly, extremely intelligent
as thou art, that punishment is inflicted on a froward tongue?

PR. I give thee joy, because that thou hast escaped censure, after taking
part in and venturing along with me in all things. And now leave him
alone, and let it not concern thee. For in no wise wilt thou persuade
him; for he is not open to persuasion. And look thou well to
it that thou take not harm thyself by the journey.

OC. Thou art far better calculated by nature to instruct thy neighbors
than thyself: I draw my conclusion from fact, and not from word. But think
not for a moment to divert me from the attempt. For I am confident, yea,
I am confident, that Jupiter will grant me this boon, so as to release
thee from these pangs of thine.

PR. In part I commend thee, and will by no means at any time cease
to do so. For in zeal to serve me thou lackest nothing. But trouble
thyself not; for in vain, without being of any service to me,[24]
wilt thou labor, if in any respect thou art willing to labor. But
hold thou thy peace, and keep thyself out of harm's way; for I,
though I be in misfortune, would not on this account be willing
that sufferings should befall as many as possible. No, indeed, since
also the disasters of my brother Atlas gall my heart, who is stationed
in the western regions, sustaining on his shoulders the pillar of
heaven and of earth, a burden not of easy grasp. I commiserated too
when I beheld the earth-born inmate of the Cilician caverns, a
tremendous prodigy, the hundred-headed impetuous Typhon, overpowered
by force, who withstood all the gods, hissing slaughter from his
hungry jaws; and from his eyes there flashed a hideous glare, as
though he would perforce overthrow the sovereignty of Jove. But the
sleepless shaft of Jupiter came upon him, the descending thunderbolt
breathing forth flame, which scared him out of his presumptuous
bravadoes; for having been smitten to his very soul he was crumbled
to a cinder, and thunder-blasted in his prowess. And now, a helpless
and paralyzed form is he lying hard by a narrow frith, pressed down
beneath the roots of Ætna.[25] And, seated on the topmost peaks,
Vulcan forges the molten masses, whence there shall one day burst
forth floods devouring with fell jaws the level fields of fruitful
Sicily:
with rage such as this shall Typhon boil over in hot artillery of
a never-glutted fire-breathing storm; albeit he hath been reduced
to ashes by the thunder-bolt of Jupiter. But thou art no novice,
nor needest thou me for thine instructor. Save thyself as best thou
knowest how; but I will exhaust my present fate until such time as
the spirit of Jupiter shall abate its wrath.
OC. Knowest thou not this then, Prometheus, that words are the
physicians of a distempered feeling?[26]
PR. True, if one seasonably soften down the heart, and do not with
rude violence reduce a swelling spirit.
OC. Ay, but in foresight along with boldness[27] what mischief is
there that thou seest to be inherent? inform me.
PR. Superfluous trouble and trifling folly.
OC. Suffer me to sicken in this said sickness, since 'tis of the
highest advantage for one that is wise not to seem to be wise.
PR. (Not so, for) this trespass will seem to be mine.

OC.In the
eyes of other guests she had been treated as if too insignificant for
notice, but he had loosened her lips and awakened within her a dawning
sense of her own ability, which others had chilled and depressed. He had
fingered the keys of her soul and they had vibrated in music to his
touch. Do not smile, gentle reader, and say that she was very easily
impressed, it may be that you have never known what it is to be hungry,
not for bread, but for human sympathy, to live with those who were never
interested in your joys, nor sympathized in your sorrows. To whom your
coming gave no joy and your absence no pain. Since Annette had lost her
grandmother, she had lived in an atmosphere of coldness and repression
and was growing prematurely cold. Her heart was like a sealed fountain
beneath whose covering the bright waters dashed and leaped in imprisoned
boundary. Oh, blessed power of human love to lighten human suffering,
well may we thank the giver of every good and perfect gift for the love
which gladdens hearts, brightens homes and sets the solitary in the
midst of families. Mr. Luzerne frequently saw Annette at the house of
Mrs. Lasette and occasionally called at her uncle's, but there was an
air of restraint in the social atmosphere which repressed and chilled
him. In that home he missed the cordial freedom and genial companionship
which he always found at Mrs. Lasette's but Annette's apparent
loneliness and social isolation awakened his sympathy, and her bright
intelligence and good character commanded his admiration and respect,
which developed within him a deep interest for the lovely girl. He often
spoke admiringly of her and never met her at church, or among her
friends that he did not gladly avail himself of the opportunity of
accompanying her home. Madame rumor soon got tidings of Mr. Luzerne's
attentions to Annette and in a shout the tongues of the gossips of A.P.
began to wag. Mrs. Larkins who had fallen heir to some money, moved out
of Tennis court, and often gave pleasant little teas to her young
friends, and as a well spread table was quite a social attraction in
A.P., her gatherings were always well attended. After rumor had caught
the news of Mr. Luzerne's interest in Annette, Mrs. Larkins had a social
at her house to which she invited him, and a number of her young
friends, but took pains to leave Annette out in the cold. Mr. Luzerne on
hearing that Annette was slighted, refused to attend. At the supper
table Annette's prospects were freely discussed.

"I expected that Mr. Luzerne would have been here this evening, but he
sent an apology in which he declined to come."

"Did you invite Annette?" said Miss Croker.

"No, I did not. I got enough of her when I lived next door to her."

"Well that accounts for Mr. Luzerne's absence. They remind me of the
Siamese twins; if you see one, you see the other."

"How did she get in with him?"

"She met him at Mrs. Lasette's party, and he seemed so taken up with her
that for a while he had neither eyes nor ears for any one else."

"That girl, as quiet as she looks, is just as deep as the sea."

"It is not that she's so deep, but we are so shallow. Miss Booker and
Miss Croker were sitting near Annette and not noticing her, and we girls
were having a good time in the corner to ourselves, and Annette was
looking so lonely and embarrassed I think Mr. Luzerne just took pity on
her and took especial pains to entertain her. I just think we stepped
our feet into it by slighting Annette, and of course, as soon as we saw
him paying attention to her, we wouldn't change and begin to make much
of her."

"I don't know what he sees in Annette with her big nose and plain face."

"My father," said Laura Lasette, "says that Annette is a credit to her
race and my mother is just delighted because Mr. Luzerne is attracted
to her, but, girls, had we not better be careful how we talk about her?
People might say that we are jealous of her and we know that we are
taught that jealousy is as cruel as the grave."

"We don't see anything to be jealous about her. She is neither pretty
nor stylish."

"But my mother says she is a remarkable girl," persisted Laura.

"Your mother," said Mrs. Larkins, "always had funny notions about
Annette, and saw in her what nobody else did."

"Well, for my part, I hope it will be a match."

"It is easy enough for you to say so, Laura. You think it is a sure
thing between you and Charley Cooper, but don't be too sure; there's
many a slip between the cup and the lip."

There was a flush on Laura's cheek as she replied, "If there are a
thousand slips between the cup and the lip and Charlie and I should
never marry, let me tell you that I would almost as soon court another's
husband as a girl's affianced lover. I can better afford to be an old
maid than to do a dishonorable thing."

"Well, Laura, you are a chip off the old block; just like your mother,
always ready to take Annette's part."

"I think, Mrs. Larkins, it is the finest compliment you can pay me, to
tell me that I am like my dear mother."


Chapter XVIII


"Good morning," said Mr. Luzerne, entering Mr. Thomas' office. "Are you
busy?"

"Not very; I had just given some directions to my foreman concerning a
job I have undertaken, and had just settled down to read the paper. Well
how does your acquaintance with Miss Harcourt prosper? Have you popped
the question yet?"

"No, not exactly; I had been thinking very seriously of the matter, but
I have been somewhat shaken in my intention."

"How so," said Mr. Thomas, laying down his paper and becoming suddenly
interested.

"You know that I have had an unhappy marriage which has overshadowed all
my subsequent life, and I cannot help feeling very cautious how I risk,
not only my own, but another's happiness in a second marriage. It is
true that I have been thinking of proposing to Miss Harcourt and I do
prefer her to any young lady I have ever known; but there is a
depreciatory manner in which people speak of her, that sorely puzzles
me. For instance, when I ask some young ladies if they know Annette,
they shrug their shoulders, look significantly at each other and say,
'Oh, yes, we know her; but she don't care for anything but books; oh she
is so self conceited and thinks she knows more than any one else.' But
when I spoke to Mrs. Larkins about her, she said Annette makes a fine
appearance, but all is not gold that glitters. By this time my curiosity
was excited, and I asked, 'What is the matter with Miss Harcourt? I had
no idea that people were so ready to pick at her.' She replied, 'No
wonder; she is such a spitfire.'"

"Well," said Mr. Thomas, a little hotly, "if Annette is a spitfire, Mrs.
Larkins is a lot of combustion. I think of all the women I know, she has
the greatest genius for aggravation. I used to board with her, but as I
did not wish to be talked to death I took refuge in flight."

"And so you showed the white feather that time."

"Yes, I did, and I could show it again. I don't wonder that people have
nick-named her 'Aunty talk forever.' I have known Annette for years and
I known that she is naturally quick tempered and impulsive, but she is
not malicious and implacable and if I were going to marry to-morrow I
would rather have a quick, hot-tempered woman than a cold, selfish one,
who never thought or cared about anyone but herself. Mrs. Larkins' mouth
is not a prayer-book; don't be uneasy about anything she says against
Annette."

Reassured by Mr. Thomas, Clarence Luzerne decided that he would ask Dr.
Harcourt's permission to visit his niece, a request which was readily
granted and he determined if she would consent that she should be his
wife. He was wealthy, handsome and intelligent; Annette was poor and
plain, but upright in character and richly endowed in intellect, and no
one imagined that he would pass by the handsome and stylish girls of
A.P. to bestow his affections on plain, neglected Annette. Some of the
girls who knew of his friendship for Annette, but who never dreamed of
its termination in marriage would say to Annette, "Speak a good word for
me to Mr. Luzerne;" but Annette kept her counsel and would smile and
think: I will speak a good word for myself. Very pleasant was the
growing friendship between Annette and Mr. Luzerne. Together they read
and discussed books and authors and agreed with wonderful unanimity,
which often expressed itself in the words:

"I think as you do." Not that there was any weak compliance for the sake
of agreement, but a unison of thought and feeling between them which
gave a pleasurable zest to their companionship.

"Miss Annette," said Luzerne, "do you believe that matches are made in
heaven?"

"I never thought anything about it."

"But have you no theory on the subject?"

"Not the least; have you?"

"Yes; I think that every human soul has its counterpart, and is never
satisfied till soul has met with soul and recognized its spiritual
affinity."

"Affinity! I hate the word."

"Why?"

"Because I think it has been so wrongly used, and added to the social
misery of the world."

"What do you think marriage ought to be?"

"I think it should be a blending of hearts, an intercommunion of souls,
a tie that only love and truth should weave, and nothing but death
should part."

Luzerne listened eagerly and said, "Why, Miss Annette, you speak as if
you had either loved or were using your fine imaginative powers on the
subject with good effect. Have you ever loved any one?"

Annette blushed and stammered, and said, "I hardly know, but I think I
have a fine idea of what love should be. I think the love of a woman for
the companion of her future life should go out to him just as naturally
as the waves leap to the strand, or the fire ascends to the sun."

"And this," said Luzerne, taking her hand in his, "is the way I feel
towards you. Surely our souls have met at last. Annette," said he, in a
voice full of emotion, "is it not so? May I not look on your hand as a
precious possession, to hold till death us do part?"

"Why, Mr. Luzerne," said Annette, recovering from her surprise, "this is
so sudden, I hardly know what to say. I have enjoyed your companionship
and I confess have been pleased with your attentions, but I did not
dream that you had any intentions beyond the enjoyment of the hour."

"No, Annette, I never seek amusement in toying with human hearts. I
should deem myself a villain if I came into your house and stole your
purse, and I should think myself no better if I entered the citadel of a
woman's heart to steal her affections only to waste their wealth. Her
stolen money I might restore, but what reparation could I make for
wasted love and blighted affections? Annette, let there be truth between
us. I will give you time to think on my proposal, hoping at the same
time that I shall find favor in your eyes."

After Mr. Luzerne left, Annette, sat alone by the fireside, a delicious
sense of happiness filling her soul with sudden joy. Could it be that
this handsome and dignified man had honored her above all the girls in
A.P., by laying his heart at her feet, or was it only a dream from
which would come a rude awakening? Annette looked in the glass, but no
stretch of imagination could make her conceive that she was beautiful in
either form or feature. She turned from the glass with a faint sigh,
wishing for his sake that she was as beautiful as some of the other
girls in A.P., whom he had overlooked, not thinking for one moment that
in loving her for what she was in intellect and character he had paid
her a far greater compliment than if she had been magnificently
beautiful and he had only been attracted by an exquisite form and lovely
face. In a few days after Mr. Luzerne's proposal to Annette he came for
the answer, to which he looked with hope and suspense.

"I am glad," he said, "to find you at home."

"Yes; all the rest of the family are out."

"Then the coast is clear for me?" There was tenderness and decision in
his voice as he said, "Now, Annette, I have come for the answer which
cannot fail to influence all my future life." He clasped the little hand
which lay limp and passive in his own. His dark, handsome eyes were bent
eagerly upon her as if scanning every nook and corner of her soul. Her
eye fell beneath his gaze, her hand trembled in his, tears of joy were
springing to her eyes, but she restrained them. She withdrew her hand
from his clasp; he looked pained and disappointed. "Have I been too
hasty and presumptuous?"

Annette said no rather faintly, while her face was an enigma he did not
know how to solve.

"Why did you release your hand and avert your eyes?"

"I felt that my will was succumbing to yours, and I want to give you an
answer untrammeled and uncontrolled by your will."

Mr. Luzerne smiled, and thought what rare thoughtfulness and judgment
she has evinced. How few women older than herself would have thought as
quickly and as clearly, and yet she is no less womanly, although she
seems so wise.

"What say you, my dear Annette, since I have released your hand. May I
not hope to hold this hand as the most precious of all my earthly
possessions until death us do part?"

Annette fixed her eyes upon the floor as if she were scanning the
figures on the carpet. Her heart beat quickly as she timidly repeated
the words, "Until death us do part," and placed her hand again in his,
while an expression of love and tender trust lit up the mobile and
expressive face, and Annette felt that his love was hers; the most
precious thing on earth that she could call her own. The engagement
being completed, the next event in the drama was preparation for the
wedding. It was intended that the engagement should not be long.
Together they visited different stores in purchasing supplies for their
new home. How pleasant was that word to the girl, who had spent such
lonely hours in the home of her uncle. To her it meant one of the
brightest spots on earth and one of the fairest types of heaven. In the
evening they often took pleasant strolls together or sat and chatted in
a beautiful park near their future home. One evening as they sat quietly
enjoying themselves Annette said, "How happened it that you preferred me
to all the other girls in A. P.? There are lots of girls more stylish
and better looking; what did you see in poor, plain me?" He laughingly
replied:

  "I chose you out from all the rest,
  The reason was I loved you best."

"And why did you prefer me?" She answered quite archly:

  "The rose is red, the violet's blue,
  Sugar is sweet and so are you."

"I chose you because of your worth. When I was young, I married for
beauty and I pierced my heart through with many sorrows."

"You been married?" said Annette with a tremor in her tones. "Why, I
never heard of it before."

"Did not Mr. Thomas or Mrs. Lasette tell you of it? They knew it, but it
is one of the saddest passages of my life, to which I scarcely ever
refer. She, my wife, drifted from me, and was drowned in a freshet near
Orleans."

"Oh, how dreadful, and I never knew it."

"Does it pain you?"

"No, but it astonishes me."

"Well, Annette, it is not a pleasant subject, let us talk of something
else. I have not spoken of it to you before, but to-day, when it pressed
so painfully upon my mind, it was a relief to me to tell you about it,
but now darling dismiss it from your mind and let the dead past bury its
dead."

Just then there came along where they were sitting a woman whose face
bore traces of great beauty, but dimmed and impaired by lines of sorrow
and disappointment. Just as she reached the seat where they were
sitting, she threw up her hands in sudden anguish, gasped out,
"Clarence! my long lost Clarence," and fell at his feet in a dead faint.

As Mr. Luzerne looked on the wretched woman lying at his feet, his face
grew deathly pale. He trembled like an aspen and murmured in a
bewildered tone, "has the grave restored its dead?"

But with Annette there was no time for delay. She chaffed, the rigid
hands, unloosed the closely fitting dress, sent for a cab and had her
conveyed as quickly as possible to the home for the homeless. Then
turning to Luzerne, she said bitterly, "Mr. Luzerne, will you explain
your encounter with that unfortunate woman?" She spoke as calmly as she
could, for a fierce and bitter anguish was biting at her heartstrings.
"What claim has that woman on you?"

"She has the claim of being my wife and until this hour I firmly
believed she was in her grave." Annette lifted her eyes sadly to his;
he calmly met her gaze, but there was no deception in his glance; his
eyes were clear and sad and she was more puzzled than ever.

"Annette," said he, "I have only one favor to ask; let this scene be a
secret between us as deep as the sea. Time will explain all. Do not
judge me too harshly."

"Clarence," she said, "I have faith in you, but I do not understand you;
but here is the carriage, my work at present is with this poor,
unfortunate woman, whose place I was about to unconsciously supplant."


Chapter XIX


And thus they parted. All their air castles and beautiful chambers of
imagery, blown to the ground by one sad cyclone of fate. In the city of
A.P., a resting place was found for the stranger who had suddenly dashed
from their lips the scarcely tasted cup of happiness. Mr. Luzerne
employed for her the best medical skill he could obtain. She was
suffering from nervous prostration and brain fever. Annette was constant
in her attentions to the sufferer, and day after day listened to her
delirious ravings. Sometimes she would speak of a diamond necklace, and
say so beseechingly, "Clarence, don't look at me so. You surely can't
think that I am guilty. I will go away and hide myself from you.
Clarence, you never loved me or you would not believe me guilty."

But at length a good constitution and careful nursing overmastered
disease, and she showed signs of recovery. Annette watched over her when
her wild ravings sounded in her ears like requiems for the loved and
cherished dead. Between her and the happiness she had so fondly
anticipated, stood that one blighted life, but she watched that life
just as carefully as if it had been the dearest life on earth she knew.

One day, as Annette sat by her bedside, she surmised from the look on
her face that the wandering reason of the sufferer had returned.
Beckoning to Annette she said "Who are you and where am I?"

Annette answered, "I am your friend and you are with friends."

"Poor Clarence," she murmured to herself; "more sinned against than
sinning."

"My dear friend," Annette said very tenderly, "you have been very ill,
and I am afraid that if you do not be very quiet you will be very sick
again." Annette gently smoothed her beautiful hair and tried to soothe
her into quietness. Rest and careful nursing soon wrought a wondrous
change in Marie Luzerne, but Annette thoughtfully refrained from all
reference to her past history and waited for time to unravel the mystery
she could not understand, and with this unsolved mystery the match
between her and Luzerne was broken off. At length, one day when Marie's
health was nearly restored, she asked for writing materials, and said,
"I mean to advertise for my mother in a Southern paper. It seems like a
horrid dream that all I knew or loved, even my husband, whom I deserted,
believed that I was dead, till I came suddenly on him in the park with a
young lady by his side. She looked like you. Was it you?"

"Yes," said Annette, as a sigh of relief came to her lips. If Clarence
had wooed and won her he had not willfully deceived her. "Oh, how I
would like to see him. I was wayward and young when I left him in anger.
Oh, if I have sinned I have suffered; but I think that I could die
content if I could only see him once more." Annette related the strange
sad story to her physician, who decided that it was safe and desirable
that there should be an interview between them. Luzerne visited his long
lost wife and after a private interview, he called Annette to the room,
who listened sadly while she told her story, which exonerated Luzerne
from all intent to deceive Annette by a false marriage while she had a
legal claim upon him.

"I was born," she said, "in New Orleans. My father was a Spaniard and
my mother a French Creole. She was very beautiful and my father met her
at a French ball and wished her for his companion for life, but as she
was an intelligent girl and a devout Catholic she would not consent to
live a life by which she would be denied the Sacrament of her Church; so
while she could not contract a civil marriage, which would give her the
legal claims of a wife, she could enter into an ecclesiastical marriage
by which she would not forfeit her claim to the rights and privileges of
the Church as a good Catholic. I was her only child, loved and petted by
my father, and almost worshipped by my mother, and I never knew what it
was to have a wish unfilled if it was in her power to gratify it. When I
was about 16 I met Clarence Luzerne. People then said that I was very
beautiful. You would scarcely think so now, but I suppose he thought so,
too. In a short time we were married, and soon saw that we were utterly
unfitted to each other; he was grave and I was gay; he was careful and
industrious, I was careless and extravagant; he loved the quiet of his
home and books; I loved the excitements of pleasure and the ball room,
and yet I think he loved me, but it was as a father might love a wayward
child whom he vainly tried to restrain. I had a cousin who had been
absent from New Orleans a number of years, of whose antecedents I knew
not scarcely anything. He was lively, handsome and dashing. My husband
did not like his society, and objected to my associating with him. I did
not care particularly for him, but I chafed against the restraint, and
in sheer waywardness I continued the association. One day he brought me
a beautiful diamond necklace which he said he had obtained in a distant
land. I laid it aside intending to show it to my husband; in the
meantime, a number of burglaries had been committed in the city of B.,
and among them was a diamond necklace. My heart stood still with sudden
fear while I read of the account and while I was resolving what to do,
my husband entered the house followed by two officers, who demanded the
necklace. My husband interfered and with a large sum of money obtained
my freedom from arrest. My husband was very proud of the honor of his
family and blamed me for staining its record. From that day my husband
seemed changed in his feelings towards me. He grew cold, distant and
abstracted, and I felt that my presence was distasteful to him. I could
not enter into his life and I saw that he had no sympathy with mine, and
so in a fit of desperation I packed my trunk and took with me some money
I had inherited from my father and left, as I said in a note, forever. I
entered a convent and resolved that I would devote myself to the service
of the poor and needy, for life had lost its charms for me. I had
scarcely entered the convent before the yellow fever broke out and raged
with fearful intensity. I was reckless of my life and engaged myself as
a nurse. One day there came to our hospital a beautiful girl with a
wealth of raven hair just like mine was before I became a nurse. I
nursed her through a tedious illness and when she went out from the
hospital, as I had an abundance of clothing, I supplied her from my
wardrobe with all she needed, even to the dress she wore away. The
clothing was all marked with my name. Soon after I saw in the paper that
a young woman who was supposed from the marks on her clothing and the
general description of her person to be myself was found drowned in a
freshet. I was taken ill immediately afterwards and learned on
recovering that I had been sick and delirious for several weeks. I
sought for my mother, inquired about my husband, but lost all trace of
them both till I suddenly came across my husband in Brightside Park. But
Clarence, if you have formed other ties don't let me come between you
and the sunshine. You are free to apply for a divorce; you can make the
plea of willful desertion. I will not raise the least straw in your way.
I will go back to the convent and spend the rest of my life in penitence
and prayer. I have sinned; it is right that I should suffer." Clarence
looked eagerly into the face of Annette; it was calm and peaceful, but
in it he read no hope of a future reunion.

"What say you, Annette, would you blame me if I accepted this release?"

"I certainly would. She is your lawful wife. In the church of her father
you pledged your faith to her, and I do not think any human law can
absolve you from being faithful to your marriage vows. I do not say it
lightly. I do not think any mother ever laid her first born in the grave
with any more sorrow than I do to-day when I make my heart the sepulchre
in which I bury my first and only love. This, Clarence, is the saddest
trial of my life. I am sadder to-day than when I stood a lonely orphan
over my grandmother's grave, and heard the clods fall on her coffin and
stood lonely and heart-stricken in my uncle's house, and felt that I was
unwelcome there. But, Clarence, the great end of life is not the
attainment of happiness but the performance of duty and the development
of character. The great question is not what is pleasant but what is
right."

"Annette, I feel that you are right; but I am too wretched to realize
the force of what you say. I only know that we must part, and that means
binding my heart as a bleeding sacrifice on the altar of duty."

"Do you not know who drank the cup of human suffering to its bitter
dregs before you? Arm yourself with the same mind, learn to suffer and
be strong. Yes, we must part; but if we are faithful till death heaven
will bring us sweeter rest." And thus they parted. If Luzerne had felt
any faltering in his allegiance to duty he was too honorable and upright
when that duty was plainly shown to him to weakly shrink from its
performance, and as soon as his wife was able to travel he left A.P.,
for a home in the sunny South. After Luzerne had gone Annette thought,
"I must have some active work which will engross my mind and use every
faculty of my soul. I will consult with my dear friend Mrs. Lasette."

All unnerved by her great trial, Annette rang Mrs. Lasette's front door
bell somewhat hesitatingly and walked wearily into the sitting-room,
where she found Mrs. Lasette resting in the interval between twilight
and dark. "Why Annette!" she said with pleased surprise, "I am so glad
to see you. How is Clarence? I thought you would have been married
before now. I have your wedding present all ready for you."

"Mrs. Lasette," Annette said, while her voice trembled with
inexpressible sorrow, "it is all over."

Mrs. Lasette was lighting the lamp and had not seen Annette's face in
the dusk of the evening, but she turned suddenly around at the sound of
her voice and noticed the wan face so pitiful in its expression of
intense suffering.

"What is the matter, my dear; have you and Luzerne had a lover's
quarrel?"

"No," said Annette, sadly, and then in the ears of her sympathizing
friend she poured her tale of bitter disappointment. Mrs. Lasette folded
the stricken girl to her heart in tenderest manner.

"Oh, Mrs. Lasette," she said, "you make me feel how good it is for girls
to have a mother."

"Annette, my brave, my noble girl, I am so glad."

"Glad of what, Mrs. Lasette?"

"Glad that you have been so true to conscience and to duty; glad that
you have come through your trial like gold tried in the fiercest fire;
glad that my interest in you has not been in vain, and that I have been
able to see the blessed fruitage of my love and labors. And now, my dear
child, what next?"

"I must have a change; I must find relief in action. I feel so weak and
bruised in heart."

"A bruised reed will not break," murmured Mrs. Lasette to herself.

"Annette," said Mrs. Lasette, "this has been a fearful trial, but it
must not be in vain; let it bring you more than happiness; let it bring
you peace and blessedness. There is only one place for us to bring our
sins and our sorrows, and that is the mercy seat. Let us both kneel
there to-night and ask for grace to help in this your time of need. We
are taught to cast our care upon Him for he careth for us. Come, my
child, with the spirit of submission and full surrender, and consecrate
your life to his service, body, soul and spirit, not as a dead offering,
but a living sacrifice."

Together they mingled their prayers and tears, and when Annette rose
from her knees there was a look of calmness on her face, and a deep
peace had entered her soul. The strange trial was destined to bring joy
and gladness and yield the peaceable fruit of righteousness in the
future. Mrs. Lasette wrote to some friends in a distant Southern town
where she obtained a situation for Annette as a teacher. Here she soon
found work to enlist her interest and sympathy and bring out all the
activity of her soul. She had found her work and the people among whom
she labored had found their faithful friend.


Chapter XX


Luzerne's failure to marry Annette and re-instatement of his wife was
the sensation of the season. Some pitied Annette; others blamed Luzerne,
but Annette found, as a teacher, opportunity among the freedmen to be a
friend and sister to those whose advantages had been less than hers.
Life had once opened before her like a fair vision enchanted with
delight, but her beautiful dream had faded like sun rays mingling with
the shadows of night. It was the great disappointment of her life, but
she roused up her soul to bear suffering and to be true to duty, and
into her soul came a joy which was her strength. Little children learned
to love her, the street gamins knew her as their friend, aged women
blessed the dear child as they called her, who planned for their comfort
when the blasts of winter were raging around their homes. Before her
great trial she had found her enjoyment more in her intellectual than
spiritual life, but when every earthly prop was torn away, she learned
to lean her fainting head on Christ the corner-stone and the language of
her heart was "Nearer to thee, e'en though it be a cross that raiseth
me." In surrendering her life she found a new life and more abundant
life in every power and faculty of her soul.

Luzerne went South and found Marie's mother who had mourned her child as
dead. Tenderly they watched over her, but the seeds of death were sown
too deeply in her wasted frame for recovery, and she wasted away and
sank into a premature grave, leaving Luzerne the peaceful satisfaction
of having smoothed her passage to the grave, and lengthened with his
care, her declining days. Turning from her grave he plunged into active
life. It was during the days of reconstruction when tricksters and
demagogues were taking advantage of the ignorance and inexperience of
the newly enfranchised citizens. Honorable and upright, Luzerne
preserved his integrity among the corruptions of political life. Men
respected him too much to attempt to swerve him from duty for personal
advantage. No bribes ever polluted his hands, nor fraud, nor political
chicanery ever stained his record.

He was the friend and benefactor of his race, giving them what gold is
ever too poor to buy--the benefit of a good example and a noble life,
and earned for himself the sobriquet by which he was called, "honest
Luzerne." And yet at times he would turn wistfully to Annette and the
memory of those glad, bright days when he expected to clasp hands with
her for life. At length his yearning had become insatiable and he
returned to A. P.

Laura Lasette had married Charley Cooper who by patience and industry
had obtained a good position in the store of a merchant who was manly
enough to let it be known that he had Negro blood in his veins, but that
he intended to give him a desk and place in his establishment and he
told his employees that he intended to employ him, and if they were not
willing to work with him they could leave. Charley was promoted just the
same as others according to his merits. Time had dealt kindly with Mrs.
Lasette, as he scattered his silvery crystals amid her hair, and of her
it might be said,

  Each silver hair, each wrinkle there
    Records some good deed done,
  Some flower she scattered by the way
    Some spark from love's bright sun.

Mrs. Larkins had grown kinder and more considerate as the years passed
by. Mr. Thomas had been happily married for several years. Annette was
still in her Southern home doing what she could to teach, help and
befriend those on whose chains the rust of ages had gathered. Mr.
Luzerne found out Annette's location and started Southward with a fresh
hope springing up in his heart.

It was a balmy day in the early spring when he reached the city where
Annette was teaching. Her home was a beautiful place of fragrance and
flowers. Groups of young people were gathered around their teacher
listening eagerly to a beautiful story she was telling them. Elderly
women were scattered in little companies listening to or relating some
story of Annette's kindness to them and their children.

"I told her," said one, "that I had a vision that some one who was fair,
was coming to help us. She smiled and said she was not fair. I told her
she was fair to me."

"I wish she had been here fifteen years ago," said another one. "Before
she came my boy was just as wild as a colt, but now he is jist as stiddy
as a judge."

"I just think," said another one, "that she has been the making of my
Lucy. She's just wrapped up in Miss Annette, thinks the sun rises and
sets in her." Old mothers whose wants had been relieved, came with the
children and younger men too, to celebrate Annette's 31st birthday.
Happy and smiling, like one who had passed through suffering into peace
she stood, the beloved friend of old and young, when suddenly she heard
a footstep on the veranda which sent the blood bounding in swift
currents back to her heart and left her cheek very pale. It was years
since she had heard the welcome rebound of that step, but it seemed as
familiar to her as the voice of a loved and long lost friend, or a
precious household word, and before her stood, with slightly bowed form
and hair tinged with gray, Luzerne. Purified through suffering, which to
him had been an evangel of good, he had come to claim the love of his
spirit. He had come not to separate her from her cherished life work,
but to help her in uplifting and helping those among whom her lot was
cast as a holy benediction, and so after years of trial and pain, their
souls had met at last, strengthened by duty, purified by that faith
which works by love, and fitted for life's highest and holiest truths.

And now, in conclusion, permit me to say under the guise of fiction, I
have essayed to weave a story which I hope will subserve a deeper
purpose than the mere amusement of the hour, that it will quicken and
invigorate human hearts and not fail to impart a lesson of usefulness
and value.



Notes


1. In the original, this sentence reads: "After she became a wife and
mother, instead of becoming entirely absorbed in a round of household
cares and duties, and she often said, that the moment the crown of
motherhood fell upon her how that she had poured a new interest in the
welfare of her race."

2. The original reads "But Mr. Thompson."

3. The original reads "but during her short sojourn in the South."

4. [BB] _Martin's Hundred._--Martin's Hundred is located On Fry and
Jefferson's map between Hog island and Mulberry island, and on a small
stream called Skies creek, on the north side of James river. In the
proceedings of the Assembly in 1619 it is referred to as Paspaheigh's,
alias Martin's Hundred, see ante p. 30.

In the "Particulars of Land in Virginia," before mentioned, we read,
"Martin's Hundred, containing 80,000 acres, part planted."

Captaine Martin was made president by Capt.
The original reads "'Isn't your name Benny?'"

9. The original reads "said Charley Hastings."

10. The original reads "scarcely on intellect."

11. The original reads "expensive views."

12. The original reads "Mrs. Harcourt."

13. The original reads "Mrs. Hanson."

14. The original reads "Mr. Thomas."

15. The original reads "Tom Hanson."