"What mean you?" was the stern demand of Hinkley, uttered in very
startling accents.

"To tell you that I have not always been a non-combatant, that I am
scarcely one now, and that, in the other schools, in which I have
been taught, the use of the pistol was an early lesson. You have
probably fancied that such was not the case, and that my profession--"

"Come, sir--will you follow this path?" said Hinkley, interrupting
him impatiently.

"All in good time, sir, when you have heard me out," was the cool
reply. "Now, sir," he continued, "were you to have known that it
would be no hard task for me to mark any button on your vest, at
any distance--that I have often notched a smaller mark, and that
I am prepared to do so again, it might be that your prudence would
have tempered your courage--"

"I regret for your sake," said Hinkley, again interrupting him with
a sarcasm, "that I have not brought with me the weapon with which
MY marks are made. You seem to have forgotten that I too have some
skill in my poor way. One would think, sir, that the memory would
not fail of retaining what I suspect will be impressed upon the
skin for some time longer."

"You are evidently bent on fighting, Mr. Hinkley, and I must gratify
you!"

"If you please, sir."

"But, before doing so, I should like to know in what way I have
provoked such a feeling of hostility in your mind? I have not sought
to do so. I have on the contrary, striven to show you my friendship,
in part requital of the kindness shown me by your parents."

"Do not speak of them, if you please."

"Ay, but I must. It was at the instance of your worthy mother that
I sought you and strove to confer with you on, the cause of your
evident unhappiness."

"You were the cause."

"I?"

"Yes--you! Did I not tell you then that I hated you; and did you
not accept my defiance?"

"Yes; but when you saved my life!--"

"It was to spurn you--to put stripes upon you. I tell you, Alfred
Stevens, I loathe you with the loathing one feels for a reptile,
whose cunning is as detestable as his sting is deadly. I loathe
you from instinct. I felt this dislike and distrust for you from
the first moment that I saw you. I know not how, or why, or in what
manner, you are a villain, but I feel you to be one! I am convinced
of it as thoroughly as if I knew it. You have wormed yourself into
the bosom of my family. You have expelled me from the affections
of my parents; and not content with this, you have stolen to the
heart of the woman to whom my life was devoted, to have me driven
thence also. Can I do less than hate you? Can I desire less than
your destruction? Say, having heard so much, whether you will make
it necessary that I should again lay my whip over your shoulders."

The face of Stevens became livid as he listened to this fierce and
bitter speech. His eye watched that of the speaker with the glare
of the tiger, as if noteful only of the moment when to spring. His
frame trembled. His lip quivered with the struggling rage. All his
feeling of self-superiority vanished when he listened to language
of so unequivocal a character--language which so truly denounced,
without defining, his villany. He felt, that if the instinct of the
other was indeed so keen and quick, then was the combat necessary,
and the death of the rustic essential, perhaps, to his own safety.
William Hinkley met his glance with a like fire. There was no
shrinking of his heart or muscles. Nay, unlike his enemy, he felt
a strange thrill of pleasure in his veins as he saw the effect
which his language had produced on the other.

"Lead the way!" said Stevens; "the sooner you are satisfied the
better."

"You are very courteous, and I thank you," replied Hinkley, with
a subdued but sarcastic smile, "you will pardon me for the seeming
slight, in taking precedence of one so superior; but the case
requires it. You will please to follow. I will show you my back no
longer than it seems necessary."

"Lead on, sir--lead on."


CHAPTER XXIII.

UNEXPECTED ISSUES.


William Hinkley ascended the narrow path leading to the hills
with an alacrity of heart which somewhat surprised himself. The
apprehensions of danger, if he felt any, were not of a kind to
distress or annoy him, and were more than balanced by the conviction
that he had brought his enemy within his level. That feeling of
power is indeed a very consolatory one. It satisfies the ambitious
heart, though death preys upon his household, one by one; though
suffering fevers his sleep; though the hopes of his affection wither;
though the loves and ties of his youth decay and vanish. It makes
him careless of the sunshine, and heedless of the storm. It deadens
his ear to the song of birds, it blinds his eye to the seduction
of flowers. It makes him fly from friendship and rush on hate. It
compensates for all sorts of loneliness, and it produces them. It
is a princely despotism; which, while it robs its slave of freedom,
covers him with other gifts which he learns to value more; which,
binding him in fetters, makes him believe that they are sceptres
and symbols before which all things become what he desires them.
His speech is changed, his very nature perverted, but he acquires
an "open sesame" by their loss, and the loss seems to his imagination an
exceeding gain. We will not say that William Hinkley was altogether
satisfied with HIS bargain, but in the moment when he stood
confronting his enemy on the bald rock, with a deadly weapon in
each hand--when he felt that he stood foot to foot in equal conflict
with his foe, one whom he had dragged down from his pride of place,
and had compelled to the fearful issue which made his arrogance
quail--in that moment, if he did not forget, he did not so much
feel, that he had lost family and friends, parents and love; and
if he felt, it was only to induce that keener feeling of revenge
in which even the affections are apt to be swallowed up.

Stevens looked in the eye of the young man and saw that he was
dangerous. He looked upon the ante-revolutionary pistols, and saw
that they were dangerous too, in a double sense.

"Here are pistols," he said, "better suited to our purpose. You
can sound them and take your choice."

"These," said Hinkley, doggedly, "are as well suited as any. If
you will, you can take your choice of mine; but if you think yours
superior, use them. These are good enough for me."

"But this is out of all usage," said Stevens.

"What matters it, Mr. Stevens? If you are satisfied that yours are
the best, the advantage is with you. If you doubt that mine can
kill, try them. I have a faith in these pistols which will content
me; but we will take one of each, if that will please you better,
and use which we think proper."

Stevens expressed himself better pleased to keep his own.

"Suit yourself as to distance," said Hinkley, with all the coolness
of an unmixed salamander. His opponent stepped off ten paces with
great deliberation, and William Hinkley, moving toward a fragment
of the rock upon which he had placed his "revolutions" for the better
inspection of his opponent, possessed himself of the veterans and
prepared to take the station which had been assigned him.

"Who shall give the word?" demanded Stevens.

"You may!" was the cool rejoinder.

"If I do, I kill you," said the other.

"I have no fear, Mr. Stevens," answered William Hinkley with a
degree of phlegm which almost led Stevens to fancy he had to deal
with a regular Trojan--"I have no fear," he continued, "and if you
fancy you can frighten me by this sort of bragging you have very
much mistaken your man. Shoot when you please, word or no word."

William Hinkley stood with his back to the woods, his face toward
the lake which spread itself, smooth and calm at a little distance.
He did not perceive that his position was a disadvantageous one.
The tree behind, and that beside him, rendered his body a most
conspicuous mark; while his opponent, standing with his back to
the uncovered rocks ranged with no other objects of any prominence.
Had he even been sufficiently practised in the arts of the duello, he
would most probably have been utterly regardless of these things.
They would not have influenced his firmness in the slightest
degree. His course was quite as much the result of desperation as
philosophy. He felt himself an outcast as well from home as from
love, and it mattered to him very little, in the morbid excitement
of his present mind, whether he fell by the hand of his rival, or
lived to pine out a wearisome existence, lonely and uninspired, a
gloomy exile in the bitter world. He waited, it may be said, with
some impatience for the fire of his antagonist. Once he saw the
pistol of Stevens uplifted. He had one in each hand. His own hung
beside him. He waited for the shot of the enemy as a signal when to
lift and use his own weapon. But instead of this he was surprised
to see him drop the muzzle of his weapon, and with some celerity
and no small degree of slight of hand, thrust the two pistols
under his coat-skirts. A buz reached his ears a moment after--the
hum of voices--some rustling in the bushes, which signified confusion
in the approach of strangers. Thomas Horton. The sound of approaching
footsteps, however, made him hesitate in his fell purpose, so he
contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent, and vanished
with a deep churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him.

On reaching his room he entirely broke down, and became a prey to
the most violent agitation.

The vulgarity of the twins, and the gross materialism of
Mrs. Otis, were naturally extremely annoying, but what really
distressed him most was, that he had been unable to wear the
suit of mail.
Before he could turn and guard against the unseen
danger, he received a blow upon his head, the only thing of which
he was conscious for some time. He staggered and fell forward. He
felt himself stunned, fancied he was shot, and sunk to the ground
in an utter state of insensibility.

The blow came from his father's crab-stick. It was so utterly
unexpected by the parties who had attended old Hinkley to the place
of meeting, that no efforts were made to prevent it. But the mother
of the victim rushed in in time to defeat the second blow, which
the father prepared to inflict, in the moment when his son was
falling from the effects of the first. Grasping the coat skirts
of her spouse, she pulled him back with no scrupulous hand, and
effectually baffled his designs by bringing him down, though in an
opposite direction, to the same level with the youth. Old Hinkley
did not bite the dust, but the latter part of his skull most
effectually butted it; and had not his head been quite as tough as
his crab-stick, the hurt might have been quite as severe as that
which the latter had inflicted on the son.

The latter lay as perfectly quiet as if all had been over with him.
So much so, that the impression became very general that such was
the case. Under this impression the heart of the mother spoke out
in mingled screams of lamentation and reproach. She threw herself
down by the side of the youth and vainly attempted to stop the blood
which was streaming from a deep gash on his skull. While engaged
in this work, her apron and handkerchief being both employed for
this purpose, she poured forth a torrent of wrath and denunciation
against her spouse. She now forgot all the offences of the boy, and
even Alfred Stevens came in for his share of the anger with which
she visited the offence and the offender.

"Shame! shame! you bloody-minded man," she cried, "to slaughter
your own son--your only son--to come behind him and knock him down
with a club as if he had been an inhuman ox! You are no husband
of mine. He sha'n't own you for a father. If I had the pick, I'd
choose a thousand fathers for him, from here to Massassippi, sooner
than you. He's only too good and too handsome to be son of yours.
And for what should you strike him? For a stranger--a man we never
saw before. Shame on you! You are a brute, a monster, William
Hinkley, and I'm done with you for ever.

"My poor, poor boy! Look up, my son. Look up, William. Open your
eyes. It's your own dear mother that speaks to you. O my God! you've
killed him--he will not open his eyes. He's dead, he's dead, he's
dead!"

And truly it seemed so, for the youth gave no sign of consciousness.
She threw herself in a screaming agony upon his body, and gave
herself up to the unmeasured despair, which, if a weakness, is
at least a sacred one in the case of a mother mourning her only
son. Old Hinkley was not without his alarms--nay, not altogether
without his compunctions. But he was one of that round head genus
whose self-esteem is too much at all times for fear, or shame, or
sensibility. Without seeking to assist the lad, and ascertain what
was his real condition, he sought only to justify himself for what
he had done by repeating the real and supposed offences of the
youth. He addressed himself in this labor chiefly to Mr. Calvert,
who, with quite as much suffering as any of the rest, had more
consideration, and was now busied in the endeavor to stanch the
blood and cleanse the wound of the victim.

"He's only got what he deserved," exclaimed the sullen, stubborn
father.

"Do not speak so, Mr. Hinkley," replied Calvert, with a sternness
which was unusual with him; "your son may have got his death."

"And he deserves it!" responded the other doggedly.

"And if he has," continued Calvert, "you are a murderer--a cold-blooded
murderer--and as such will merit and will meet the halter."

The face of the old man grew livid--his lips whitened with rage;
and he approached Calvert, his whole frame quivering with fury,
and, shaking his hand threateningly, exclaimed:--

"Do you dare to speak to me in this manner, you miserable, white-headed
pedagogue--do you dare?"

"Dare!" retorted Calvert, rising to his feet with a look of majesty
which, in an instant, awed the insolence of the offender. Never
had he been faced by such defiance, so fearlessly and nobly expressed.

"Dare!--Look on me, and ask yourself whether I dare or not.
Approach me but a step nigher, and even my love for your unfortunate
and much-abused but well-minded son will not protect you. I would
chastise you, with all my years upon me, in spite of my white
head.  Yours, if this boy should die, will never become white,
or will become so suddenly, as your soul will wither, with its
own self-torture, within you. Begone!--keep back--do not approach
me, and, above all, do not approach me with uplifted hand, or, by
Heaven, I will fell you to the earth as surely as you felled this
boy! You have roused a feeling within me, William Hinkley, which
has slept for years.  Do not provoke it too far. Beware in season.
You have acted the brute and the coward to your son--you could do
so with impunity to him--to me you can not."

