'Ah! Ludovico!' said the happy young father, as he fondly kissed the
child, whose azure eyes, and long black eyelashes and curling raven
hair, showed his descent both from the fair race of Britain, and
America's wild wandering children.  'Ah, Ludovico! how well I remember
your uncle, when he was a merry infant like you, and used to roll on
the grass in my sweet sister Edith's garden, and tear its gaudy
blossoms, as you do these flowers of the forest. Those were happy
days,' he added--and the bright smile of careless mirth changed to one
of pensive sadness--'yes; those were happy days that never can return.
If my sisters, and my playful little brother, yet live, they must be
changed indeed from what they were when last I saw their sweet faces on
that eventful evening, that fixed the course of my destiny. Edith must
now be a woman--a lovely woman, too; and little Ludovico a fine open-
hearted boy. And my beloved parents, too: O, that I knew they were
alive and well and that ere long they would see and bless my Oriana and
my child!'

And Henrich seated himself by the side of his young Indian wife, and
gazed in the face of his laughing boy, with an expression at once so
sad and sweet, that the child became silent and thoughtful too; and,
dropping the flowers that filled his little hands, he gently clasped
them as if in prayer, and looked long and searchingly into his father's
eyes.

'There, now you look exactly as my brother used to do when he knelt at
my mother's knee, and she taught him to lisp his evening prayer,'
exclaimed Henrich and his eyes glistened with emotion, as home, and all
its loved associations, rushed into his mind.

Oriana saw his sadness; and felt--as she often had done before on
similar occasions--a pang of painful regret, and even of jealousy,
towards those much-loved relatives whom her husband still so deeply
regretted. She laid her hand on his, and raising her large expressive
eyes to his now melancholy countenance, she gently said--

'Does Henrich still grieve that the red men stole him away from the
home of his childhood, and brought him to dwell among the forests? Is
not Oriana better to him than a sister, and are not the smiles of his
own Ludovico sweeter to his heart than even those of his little brother
used to be? And is not my father his father also? O Henrich--my own
Henrich'--she added, while she leaned her head on his shoulder, and
tears burst from her eyes, and chased each other down her clear olive
checks, to which deep emotion now gave a richer glow--'tell me, do you
wish to be set free from all the ties that bind you to our race, and
return to your own people, to dwell again with them; and, perhaps, to
lift the tomahawk, and east the spear against those who have loved you,
and cherished you so fondly?  Often have you told me that your Indian
wife and child are dearer to you than all that you have left behind you
at New Plymouth. But tell it to me again! Let me hear you say again
that you are happy here, and will never desert us; for when I see that
sorrowful look in your dear eyes, and remember all you have lost, and
still are losing, to live in a wilderness with wild and savage men, my
heart misgives me; and I feel that you were never made for such a life,
and that your love is far too precious to be given for ever to an
Indian girl.'

The smile returned to Henrich's eyes, as he listened to this fond
appeal; and he almost reproached himself for ever suffering regret for
the blessings he had lost to arise in his mind, when those he still
possessed were so many and so great.

'Dear Oriana, you need not fear,' he replied, affectionately; 'I speak
the truth of my heart when I tell you that I would not exchange my
Indian home, and sacrifice my Indian squaw, and my little half-bred
son, for all the comforts and pleasures of civilized life--no, not even
to be restored to the parents I still love so dearly, and the brother
and sister who played with me in childhood. But still I yearn to look
upon their faces again, and to hear once more their words of love.  I
well know how they have all mourned for me: and I know how, even after
so many years have passed, they would rejoice at finding me again!’

'Yes; they must indeed have mourned for you, Henrich. That must have
been a sad night to them when Coubitant bore you away. But I owe all
the happiness of my life to that cruel deed--and can I regret it? If my
"white brother" had not come to our camp, I should have lived and died
an ignorant Indian squaw--I should have known no thing of true
religion, or of the Christian's God--and,' continued Oriana, smiling at
her husband with a sweetness and archness of expression that made her
countenance really beautiful, 'I should never have known my Henrich.'

'Child!' said old Tisquantum, rousing himself from the half-dreamy
reverie in which he had been sitting, and enjoying the warm sunbeams as
they fell on his now feeble limbs, and long white hair. 'Child, are you
talking again of Henrich leaving us? It is wrong of you to doubt him.
My son has given me his word that he will never take you from me until
Mahneto recalls my spirit to himself, and I dwell again with my
fathers. Has he not also said that he will never leave or forsake you
and his boy? Why, then, do you make your heart sad? Henrich has never
deceived us--he has never, in all the years that he has lived in our
wigwam, and shared our wanderings, said the thing that was not: and
shall we suspect him now? No, Oriana; I trust him as I would have
trusted my own Tekoa: and had my brave boy lived he could not have been
dearer to me than Henrich is. He could not have surpassed him in
hunting or in war: he could not have guided and governed my people with
more wisdom, now that I am too old and feeble to be their leader: and
he could not have watched over my declining years with more of
gentleness and love. Henrich will never desert us: no, not if we return
to the head-quarters of our tribe near Paomet,[*] as I hope to do ere I
close my eyes in death. So long as I feared my white son would leave
us, and return to his own people, I never turned my feet towards
Paomet; for he had wound himself into my heart, and had taken Tekoa's
place there: and I saw that he had wound himself into your heart too,
my child; and I knew that he was more to us than the land of our birth.
Therefore I have kept my hunters wandering from north to south, and
from east to west, and have visited the mountains, and the prairies,
and the mighty rivers, and the great lakes; and have found a home in
all. But now our Henrich is one of us, and never will forsake us for
any others. Is he not Sachem of my warriors, and do they not look to
him as their leader and their father? No; Henrich will never leave us
now!'

[Footnote: The native name for Cape Cod, near which the main body of
the Nausetts resided.]

And the old man, who had become excited during this long harangue,
smiled at his children with love and confidence, and again leaned back
and closed his eyes, relapsing into that quiet dreamy state in which
the Indians, especially the more aged among them, are so fond of
indulging.

Tisquantum was now a very old man; and the great changes and
vicissitudes of climate and mode of life, and the severe bodily
exertions in warfare and hunting, to which he had been all his life
exposed, made him appear more advanced in years than he actually was.
Since the marriage of his daughter to the white stranger--which
occurred about three years previous to the time at which our narrative
has now arrived--he had indulged himself in an almost total cessation
from business, and from every active employment, and had resigned the
government of his followers into the able and energetic hands of his
son-in-law. Henrich was now regarded as Chieftain of that branch of the
Nausett tribe over which Tisquantum held authority; and so much had he.
made himself both loved and respected during his residence among the
red men, that all jealousy of his English origin and foreign complexion
had gradually died away, and his guidance in war or in council was
always promptly and implicitly followed.

And Henrich was happy--very happy--in his wild and wandering life. He
had passed from boyhood to manhood amid the scenery and the inhabitants
of the wilderness; and though his heart and his memory would still
frequently revert to the home of his parents, and all that he had loved
and prized of the connections and the habits of civilized life, yet he
now hardly wished to resume those habits. Indeed, had such a resumption
implied the abandoning his wife and child, and his venerable father-in-
law, no consideration would ever have induced him to think of it. He
had likewise, as Tisquantum said, on obtaining his consent to his
marriage with Oriana, solemnly promised never to take her away from him
while he lived; therefore, at present he entertained no intention of
again rejoining his countrymen, and renouncing his Indian mode of life.

Still 'the voices of his home' were often ringing in his ear by day and
by night; and the desire to know the fate of his beloved family, and
once more to behold each fondly-cherished member of it, would sometimes
come over him with an intensity that seemed to absorb every other
feeling. Then he would devise plan after plan, by which he might hope
to obtain some intelligence of the settlement, or convey to his
relatives the knowledge of his safety. But never had he yet succeeded.
Tisquantum had taken watchful care, for several years, to prevent any
such communication being effected; and it was, as we have seen mainly
with this object that he had absented himself from the rest of his
tribe, and his own former place of abode.

He had led his warriors and their families far to the north, and there
he had resided for several years; only returning occasionally to the
south-western prairies for the hunting season, and again travelling
northward when the buffalo and the elk were no longer abundant in the
plains. In all these wanderings Henrich had rejoiced; and his whole
soul had been elevated by such constant communion with the grandest
works of nature--or rather, of nature's God. He had gazed on the
stupendous cataract of Niagara, and listened to its thunders,[*] till
he felt himself in the immediate presence of Deity in all its
omnipotence.

[Footnote: O-ni-ga-rah, ‘the Thunder of Waters,’ is the Indian name for
these magnificent falls.]

He had crossed the mighty rivers of America, that seemed to European
eyes to be arms of the sea; and had passed in light and frail canoes
over those vast lakes that are themselves like inland oceans. And, in
the high latitudes to which the restless and apprehensive spirit of
Tisquantum had led him, he had traveled over boundless fields of snow
in the sledges of the diminutive Esquimaux, and lodged in their strange
winter-dwellings of frozen snow, that look as if they were built of the
purest alabaster, with windows of ice as clear as crystal.  And
marvelously beautiful those dwellings were in Henrich's eyes, as be
passed along the many rooms, with their cold walls glittering with the
lamp-light, or glowing from the reflection of the fire of pine
branches, that burnt so brightly in the center on a hearth of stone.
Well and warmly, too, had he slept on the bedsteads of snow, that these
small northern men find so comfortable, when they have strewn them with
a thick layer of pine boughs, and covered them with an abundant supply
of deerskins. And then the lights of the north--the lovely Aurora, with
its glowing hues of crimson and yellow and violet! When this beauteous
phenomena was gleaming in the horizon, and shooting up its spires of
colored light far into the deep blue sky, bow ardently did Henrich
desire the presence of his sister--of his Edith who used to share his
every feeling, and sympathize in all him love and reverence for the
works of God! But in all those days and months and years that elapsed
between the time when we left Henrich in the hunting-grounds of the
west, and the time to which we have now carried him, Oriana had been a
sister--yes, more than a sister-to him; and she had learnt to think as
he thought, and to feel as he felt, till he used to tell her that he
almost fancied the spirit of Edith had passed into her form, and had
come to share his exile.

Certainly, the mind and feelings of the Indian girl did ripen and
expand with wonderful rapidity; and, as she grew to womanhood, her
gentle gracefulness of manner, and her devoted affection towards
Henrich, confirmed the attachment that had been gradually forming in
his heart ever since he had been her adopted brother, and made him
resolve to ask her of the Sachem as his wife.

Since the conduct of Coubitant had excited--as we saw in a former
chapter--the suspicions of Tisquantum, and had so evidently increased
the dislike of Oriana, the Chieftain had abandoned all idea of
bestowing his daughter's hand on him or of making him his successor in
his official situation; and the departure of the cruel and wily savage
had been to him, as well as to Oriana and Henrich, a great satisfaction
and relief. None of them wished to see his dark countenance again, or
to be exposed to his evil machinations; and all were fully aware that
the marriage of the white stranger to the Sachem's lovely daughter was
a circumstance that would arouse all his jealousy and all his
vengeance. Nevertheless, this apprehension did not deter the old Chief
from giving a joyful consent to the proposal of Henrich to become his
son in fact, as he had long been in name and affection; and the summer
of the year 1627 had seen the nuptials celebrated in Indian fashion. On
the same day, also, the young widow, Mailah, became the wife of
Henrich's chosen friend and companion, Jyanough, who had never left the
Nausetts since first he joined them, but had followed his brother-in-
arms in all his various wanderings.

If you do not sometimes the widow of your friend sel'gen visit? Adam No,
in fact, very rarely. Walter Mrs Marthe! Have ihrs with Judge Adam
spoiled here? He says he no longer talks to you a? Mrs Marthe Hm!
Gnäd'ger Lord, spoiled? That just does not. I think he called my good
friend still. But that I am often in my house saw him, the cousin
of the Lord I just can not boast. Nine weeks that first entered last,
And just as in the pass. Like Walter says you? wife Marthe What?
Walter nine weeks would be -? wife Marthe Nine, yes - Thursday
sinds ten. He asked for me to seed, and cloves from Aurikeln from. And
Walter - Sunday - if he goes to the Vorwerk -? Wife Marthe Yes, because
- as he looks into the window well to me, And say hello to me and my
daughter, but then again he goes his way. Walter for themselves.
Hm! I should probably also the man - (He drinks.) I thought,
Because your the Virgin Muhme in there sometimes your business needs,
so would you To thank the mother and when you visit. Why Adam,
strict master? Walter Why? You said, The Virgin helfe your chickens
on the farm you in ill health.

Did she not still in this kind you advice? Wife Marthe Yes, however,
strict Lord, do it. Yesterday sends' it a sick guinea Ins house that
already had death in his body. Vorm years they saved him a the
Pips, And this also is it with the pasta cure: But thanks for he is not
yet published. Walter confused. - Give a Mr. Richter Adam, are so
good. Give me an equal. We want to have a drink. Adam to your service.
You make me happy. Here. He gives one. Walter On Your Wohlergehn! - The
judge Adam, It is early or late already come.

Marthe Does your wife? I doubt. Can I Nierstein, such as your drink,
And like my husband sel'ger, the warden, most likely, from time to time,
in the basement had Vorsetzen the Lord Vetter, what's it differently:
But as I have nothing I poor widow, in my home, which attracts
him. Walter around so much better. Eleventh appearance of light,
with a wife Brigitte wig in hand, the maids occur. The former. Light
Here, Ms. Brigitt, herein. Walter Is this the wife, Mr. Schreiber
light? The light is the wife Brigitte, Ew. Graces. Walter Well,
so let the facts we now decide. Nehmt from their maids. Here. The
maids with glasses, etc.. Adam while. Well, jane, hear you turning me
your pill properly, as one, so I am speaking tonight at a court
crucians for you.

The bitch must by now quite the throat, is it too big, mags off the
death devour.

Walter sees the wig. What does Mrs. Brigitte there for a wig? light
Gnäd'ger sir?
Walter What the woman for us there is a
wig? light Hm! Walter What? light Forgive - Walter Werd ichs learn?
light If Ew.
The graces gracious woman, by Mr.

Richter, want to ask, How is the wig who belongs, and the Weitre, I
doubt not, revealed. Walter - I do not know whom it belongs. How
did the woman to ? Where was it? Light The woman found the wig in honor
When Ms. Margrete Rull. They hung gespießt, Like a nest, in the
cross-mesh of the vine, under the window seal, where the maid
sleeps. Mrs Marthe What? For me? In espalier? Walter secretly. Mr.

Richter Adam, Do you have something to vertraun me, please let me know
in order to honor the court, you are so good, and says to me. You
Adam I -? Walter Not? Have you not -? Adam On my honor - he will take
the wig. Walter Here is the wig is not Yours? Adam Here is the wig,
you gentlemen, is my! That is, flash-element, the same person, the I the
lad was eight days ago, after they Utrecht flour to master. Walter Who?
What? The light Ruprecht? Ruprecht Me? Adam Yeah, I Him, Schlingel,
when he came to Utrecht to eight days was not the wig here entrusted
them to the hairdresser that he renovated it, added wear? Ruprecht
Whether he -? Well, yes. He gave me - Adam why he has not the wig,
scoundrel, which, why has not he, as I ordered, when masters in the
workshop delivered? Ruprecht Why I -? Sky-god thunder-shock, I did
it in the workshop made. The Master of flour, she - Adam you have? And
now they hang in the wine of honor at Marthe? O wait, Canaille!

So you do not escape. Behind me Verkappung what mutiny And what do I
know? - Will you allow me that the woman only once inquiries? Walter
you would have the wig -? Gnäd'ger Mr. Adam, as the lad there previous
ones Tuesday after Utrecht went with his father's oxen, he came into
office, and said: "Mr. Richter Adam, Do you have something in Städtlein
to order?" My son, tell me if you want to be so good, So leave me the
wig auftoupieren here - not him but I said: go and keep you up to you
to make yourself verkappe it, And leave them in honor of Martha hang.
Woman Brigitte My Lord, Ruprecht, my 'I hold to grace, the wars
do not.

Since last night I also Vorwerk go up to my Muhme, The difficult child
in bed, I hear the muffled Virgin, in the garden behind, someone scold:
anger and fear seems to steal her voice. "Fie, shame he is He despicableness,
What does he? Fort! I'll call the mother ", as if the Spaniards
were in the country. Floor: Eve! through the fence out: Eve! call me.
What did you do? What also gibts? - And still it is: Well? Will you
answer? - "What do you want, Muhme?" What did you do? .-- I ask
"What will I have?" Is it the Ruprecht? - "Ah so yes, the Ruprecht. Is
it only your way." - So you boiling tea. The love I think of how andre
squabble. Mrs Marthe Hence -? Thus Ruprecht -? Walter Quiet! Let
the woman finish. Brigitte Since I now zurückekehre by Vorwerk, At
about midnight, and just, In Lindenplatz Gang, Marthe in the
garden bin, flits you a guy in my past, baldness, with a cloven hoof,
and behind him as Erstinkts steam and hair of pitch and sulfur. I
speak a Gottseibeiuns, and Entsetzensvoll turn me around, and seh, my
soul, the bald, your men, even in the disappearance, as phosphorescent
wood, the Linde Gang penetrate.

Ruprecht What! Sky - thousand Mrs Marthe If you toll, Ms. Briggy? Ruprecht
The devil says you wärs -? Still light! Still, Madam Brigitte Mein
Seel, I know what I saw and smelt. Walter impatient. Woman obs was
the devil, I do not want to investigate him, however, is not denounced
him. Can you another report good: But the sinner because you spared
us. Light Want Ew. Graces they can complete. Walter nonsensical folk
who, Madam Brigitte Well, as you command. But the Lord is my light
scribe a witness. Walter How? Your witness? Light some extent, yes.
Walter Indeed, I do not know - very light Please submiß, The Woman in
the reports can not be ignored. That it was the devil, I do not claim,
however, with a cloven hoof, and bald and bare back Steam, if I
am not very mistaken, Has its accuracy völl'ge!

- ride away! Brigitte Because now I was surprised today to hear, what
with Mrs. Marthe Rull geschehn, and I, The Krugzertrümmerer spy, The
night I met 'on espalier, The Square, where he jumped under search,
Find me in the snow, your Lord, you a trace - what I find you for a
track in the snow? right finely and sharply edged and always nice, A
Full Menschenfuß, And left unshapely grobhin eingetölpelt A huge
drawback klotz'ger. Walter annoying. gossip, crazy, Veit verdammenswürd'ges
It is not possible, Madam, Madam Brigitte Upon my faith! Only on espalier,
where the crack happened, Behold, a wide , schneezerwühlten
circle, as if a sow is gewälzt; And Menschenfuß and drawback from here,
And Menschenfuß and cloven hoof, cloven hoof and Menschenfuß and, across
the garden, till all the world. Adam Cursed - Has the picaresque perhaps
allowed , covert nature of the devil -? Ruprecht What! I! Light Quiet!
Quiet! Brigitte If a badger investigated and discovered the Leaves,
The Hunter, not as triumphant as I am. Mr. Schreiber light, I say, just
as I see, you sent from the Würd'gen occur to me, Mr. Schreiber light
saves your session, The Krugzertrümmrer judiziert Do not you sit,
the worse you do not, as in hell: Here is the track that he is
gone. Walter So you have yourself convinced you? light Ew. Graces,
With this track hats völl'ge accuracy. Walter One drawback? Light
of a human foot, please, but like a Praetere Propter hooves. Adam
Mein Seel, your Lord, the matter seems to me seriously. It has a
lot of biting drafted writings, The that God does not want to admit,
however, the devil has, as far as I know, no atheist or flush
wegbewiesen. The case, which is present, it seems worthy of special
consideration.

I wear depends on Konklusum Before we summarize, in the Hague at the Synod
Type of whether the court was entitled to assume that Belzebub has
broken the jug. Walter A request, as I expected it of you. How well
do you, Mr. Schreiber? light Ew. Graces the Synod will not need to
urteiln. Completed - with permission - the report, you, Mrs Brigitte,
then so is the case of the connection, I hope, clearly constituted.
Brigitte Then: Mr. Schreiber light , I say, let us trace a little
but pursue sehn, where the devil may well be entwischt. "Well," he
says, "Ms. Brigitt a good idea, maybe we do not go to far, if we judge
the village to the Lord Adam go." Now, Walter? And now found himself -?
Brigitte First, we now find the other side of the garden, in which
Linde way, the place where fumes of sulfur is leaving, the devil
in me angeprellt: a circle, how about a dog shy to deviate, if the
cat prustend sets before him. Walter Floor next? Brigitte Not far now
stands a monument to his, on a tree that I previously frightening.
Walter A monument? How? Brigitte How?

yes, as you will - for Adam. Cursed, my abdomen. light over, please,
over here, I ask, Mrs. Brigitte. Wohin Walter led the track you want to
know, Madam Brigitte Where? My faith, the path next to you, just as
Mr. Schreiber said Licht. Walter to us? Here? By Mrs. Brigitte Lindenplatz
way, yes, Asc Schulz field, the carp pond along the jetty, then across
übern God, Here, I say, since the Lord village judge Adam.

To Mr. Walter village judge Adam? Adam here with me? Brigitte Too
you, yes. Ruprecht but the devil is not in the Court live? My wife
Brigitte fairly, I do not know whether he lives in this house, but
here I'm not honest, he dismounted, the track goes back to one to
the threshold. Adam he should perhaps here durchpassiert -? Brigitte
Yes, or durchpassiert. Maybe. The track also das vornaus - Walter was a
track vornaus? Light Vornaus, verzeihn Ew. Graces, no trace. Brigitte
Yes, vornaus was the path trod. Adam trod. Durchpassiert. I am a scoundrel.
The guy who fits in, here is what the laws appended. I do not want to
be honest, if it does not smell in the registry. If my calculations,
I do not doubt Confused found to be on my honesty, I stand for
nothing. Walter I do not. (For itself.) Hm! I do not know wars of
Left, Was it the rights? His feet one - Mr. Judge! Your Dose!

- Be so enjoyable. Adam, the Dose? Walter The Dose. Give! Here! Adam
to light. Gerichtsrat Bring to the Lord. Walter What circumstances?
One step needed. Adam is already done. Gebt Sister graces. Walter
you what I had said in his ear. Perhaps Adam, that we later occasion
- Walter also good. Once again the light set. Say it, your Lord, is
someone here in places, The mißgeschaffne feet? Light Hm! However,
there is someone here in Huisum - Walter Sun? Who? Light Want Ew.
Graces judges ask the Lord - the Lord Judge Walter Adam? Adam I know
nothing. Ten years, I am here in the office Huisum, As far as I know,
everything is grown grad. Walter Licht. Well? Who here do you think?
Wife Marthe but he let his feet outside, what is it they disturbed
the table below indicates that you almost think he went about the
track. Walter Who? The Honorable Judge Adam? Adam I? The track?
Am I the devil? Is that a drawback?

He shows his left foot. In my Walter Ehr. The foot is good. (Heimlich.)
power now with the session to an end immediately. Adam A foot when the
devil hätt, So he can go to the ball and dancing. The wife
Marthe tell me. Where is the Herrndorf Richter - Adam Ah, what! I!
Walter power, I say, just an end. Ms Brigitte einz'gen The only qualms,
your Lord würd'gen, power, seems me that this solemn jewelry! Adam
What a celebration -? Brigitte Here, the wig Who ever saw the devil
in such a costume? A construction getürmter, strotzender of tallow,
Domdechanten As one in the pulpit! Adam We know this country is imperfect
too, What in the hell is Mod, Mrs Brigitte!

They say usually wear his own hair. But on Earth, I am convinced
he throws in the wig is to get the intended notables. Nichtswürd'ger
Walter! Value, especially people from his ignominious Tribunal to hunt!
What protects you, is only just the honor of the court. Close
your session! Adam I do not want to hope - Walter Their hopes
now nothing. Your moves you from the thing. Adam Believe You, I would
I, the Judge, yesterday, In Weinstock the wig taking important?

Walter Protect God! The Eur is in the fire, as Sodom and Gomorrah,
aufgegangen. Light Rather forgive me, Mr. gnäd'ger! Did the cat
yesterday in his gejungt. Adam My Lord, if there appears to damn me:
You do not rush you, I ask. It is, I honor or prostitution. As long
as the maiden silent, I do not understand, what entitles me
beschuldiget.

Here on the chair of judges sitting Huisum I, And put the wig on the
table: According to the reports, claiming that they heard my, I
Oberland Fordr before the court in Utrecht. Hm light! The wig fit
but you, my soul, as if they are to your Scheiteln grown. (He sets
it on.) Adam slander! Not light? Adam As a coat around the shoulders,
I still too far, how much more to the head. Besieht He is in the mirror.
Ruprecht egg, such a gosh-guy! Walter Still, he, Madam Marthe egg,
such a lightning-damned judges that! Walter Again, do you want the
same, should I take the matter in question? Adam Yes, what your
command? Ruprecht to Eve. Eve, ie, it first? Walter What is under
the outrageous itself? Veit Hush you, I say. Adam Wart, beast!
Recapitulative you 'I do. Ruprecht egg, you flash drawback! Walter
Heda! The beadle! Veit foot stop, I say.

Ruprecht Wart! Today I take you rich. Heut streust you do not sand into
my eyes. Walter Do you not so much a joke, Mr Judge -? Adam Yes,
if Ew. Allow grace, cases I jetzo the sentence. Walter Good. If they
do das. Adam The case now konstiert, Ruprecht And there, the rascal,
is the perpetrator. Walter also well das Next. Adam The neck can I add
iron to him, and because he opposed his unseemly judge has amounted, I
turn him into the barred prison. How long will I have to determine. The
Eve Ruprecht -? Ruprecht ins jail me? Eve Ins iron? Walter
Saves your worries, children .-- Are you ready? Adam likes the pitcher
he replaced meinthalb or not. Good for Walter. Closing the session.
And Ruprecht appeals to the body of Utrecht. He is Eve, he, after
Utrecht appeal? Ruprecht What? I -? To Walter Henker, yes! And until
then - Eve And until then -? Ruprecht go into the prison? Eve the iron
stuck into the neck? Are you also judge? He then, of the outrageous,
which is sitting there, because he's - Walter you hear the devil!

Their comfortable and substantial lodge,
shaded with the plants that decorated it so profusely and so gaily, had
been the most permanent dwelling that they had ever known since their
childhood: and though they hoped eventually to enjoy a still more
settled home, they could not look on this work of their own labor and
taste without affection, or leave it for ever without sorrow.

In order to lessen the fatigue of Tisquantum it was arranged, at the
suggestion of Coubitant, that he should precede the old Sachem, and his
immediate family and attendants, to the place of their intended
encampment; and should select a suitable situation on the banks of the
Missouri, where he and the Nansett warriors could fell timber, and
prepare temporary huts for their reception. This part of the country
was familiar to him, as he had traveled through it, and dwelt among its
plains and its woods in the days of his wandering youth: and he gave
Henrich minute directions as to the route he must take, in order to
follow him to the river, which, he said, lay about three days' journey
to the southward.

To the south of the present encampment arose a considerable eminence,
that was thickly wooded to the summit on the side that overlooked the
Nausett village, and partially sheltered it from the heat of the summer
sun. On the other side it was broken into steep precipices, and its
banks were scantily clothed with shrubs and grass, which the unusual
drought had now rendered dry and withered. A winding and narrow path
round the foot of this hill was the only road that led immediately into
the plain below; and by this path Coubitant proposed to conduct the
tribe, in order to avoid a long detour to the west, where a more easy
road would have been found.  He described it to Henrich, who had often
been to the summit of the range of hills that overlooked it in pursuit
of game, but who was ignorant of the proposed route into the Missouri
district; and, after some conversation on the subject, he proposed that
the young Sachem should accompany him the following morning to the brow
of the mountain, from whence he could point out to him the road he must
take through the broken and undulating ground that lay at the bottom of
the hill; and the exact direction he must follow, after he reached the
wide and trackless prairie that intervened between that range and the
hills that bordered the Missouri.

At break of day the march of the tribe was to commence; but as several
of the Nausetts were acquainted with the intricate path round the base
of the hills, it was not necessary for Coubitant to lead them that part
of their journey in person. He therefore proposed, after pointing out
to Henrich all the necessary land-marks which could be so well observed
from the summit, to find his own way down the steep side of the rugged
precipice, and rejoin the party in the plain.

This plan was agreed to; and Coubitant invited Oriana to accompany her
husband, that she also might see and admire the extensive view that was
visible from the heights, and observe the track that her countrymen
would follow through the valley beneath.

Oriana readily acceded to this proposal, not only because she loved to
go by Henrich's side wherever she could be his companion, but also
because--in spite of the present friendly terms to which Coubitant was
admitted by her father and Henrich--she never felt quite easy when the
latter was alone with the dark-browed warrior.

The morning was clear and bright; and before the sun had risen far
above the horizon, and ere the sultry heat of the day had commenced,
Coubitant came to Henrich's lodge, and summoned him and his wife to
their early walk up the mountain. With light and active steps they took
their way through the wood, and Rodolph followed close behind them--not
now bounding and harking with joy, but at a measured pace, and with his
keen bright eye ever fixed on Coubitant.

In passing through the scattered village of huts, the dwelling of
Jyanough lay near the path. Coubitant ceased to speak as he and his
companions approached it; and Oriana thought he quickened his pace, and
glanced anxiously at the dwelling, as if desirous to pass it unobserved
by its inmates. If such was his wish, he was, however, disappointed;
for, just as the party were leaving it behind them, they heard the
short sharp bark of Rodolph at the wigwam door, and immediately
afterwards the answering voice of Jyanough.

'Rodolph, my old fellow, is it you?' exclaimed the Cree, as he came
forth from his hut, and looked anxiously at his friends, who now, to
Coubitant's inward vexation, stood to greet him.

'Where are you off to so early?’ he inquired of Henrich; and why is
Coubitant not leading our warriors on their way?'

'We are but going to the brow of the hill,' replied Henrich, 'that
Coubitant may point out to me the path by which we are to follow him.
He will then join his party in the plain, and I will quickly return to
accompany you on our projected hunting scheme. We must add to our stock
of provisions before we commence our journey.'

'I will ascend the hill with you,' said Jyanough; and Coubitant saw
that he took a spear in his hand from the door of the wigwam. Forcing a
smile, he observed, as if carelessly--

'It is needless, my friend. Henrich's eye is so good that he will
readily understand all the directions that I shall give him. Do you
doubt the skill of our young Sachem to lead his people through the
woods and the savannas, being as great as his prowess in war and his
dexterity in hunting? Let him show that he is an Indian indeed, and
wants no aid in performing an Indian's duties.'

'Be it so,' answered Jyanough; and he laid aside the spear, and
reentered the hut, rather to Henrich's surprise, and Oriana's
disappointment, but much to the satisfaction of Coubitant.

Rodolph seemed displeased at this change in the apparent intentions of
his friend; and he lingered a few moments at the door of the lodge,
looking wistfully at its master. But Jyanough bade him go; and a call
from Henrich soon brought him again to his former position, and his
watchful observation of every movement of Coubitant.

The brow of the hill was gained: and so grand and extensive was the
view to the south and west, that Oriana stood for some time
contemplating it with a refined pleasure, and forgot every feeling that
could interrupt the pure and lofty enjoyment. Beneath the precipitous
hill on which she stood, a plain, or wide savanna, stretched away for
many miles, covered with the tall prairie-grass, now dry and yellow,
and waving gracefully in the morning breeze. Its flat monotony was only
broken by a few clumps of trees and shrubs, that almost looked like
distant vessels crossing the wide trackless sea. But to the west this
plain was bounded by a range of hills, on which the rising sun shed a
brilliant glow, marking their clear outline against the deep blue sky
behind. And nearer to the hill from which she looked, the character of
the view was different, but not less interesting. It seemed as if some
mighty convulsion of nature had torn away the side of the hill, and
strewed the fragments in huge end broken masses in the valley beneath.
Over these crags the hand of nature had spread a partial covering of
moss and creeping plants; and many trees had grown up amongst them,
striking their roots deeply into the crevices, and adorning their rough
surfaces by their waving and pendant boughs. Through the rock-strewn
valley, a narrow and intricate path had been worn by the feet of the
wandering natives, and by the constant migrations of the herds of wild
animals that inhabited the prairie, in search of water or of fresher
herbage during the parching heat of an Indian summer.

Along this difficult path the Nausett warriors and their families were
now slowly winding their way, many of them on horseback, followed by
their squaws and their children on foot; and others, less barbarous,
leading the steeds on which the women and infants were placed on the
summit of a pile of baggage, and carrying their own bows and quivers,
and long and slender spears.

It was a picturesque scene: and the low chanting song of the distant
Indians--to which their march kept time--sounded sweetly, though
mournfully, as it rose on the breeze to the elevated position occupied
by Oriana and her two companions. The latter seemed fully occupied--the
one in pointing out, and the other in observing the route of the
travelers. But the eye of Henrich was not unobservant of the beauties
of the prospect; and that of Coubitant was restlessly roving to and fro
with quick and furtive glances, that seemed to indicate some secret
purpose, and to be watching for the moment to effect it.

Some of the Nausetts in the path below looked upwards; and, observing
their young Sachem and his companions, they raised a shout of
recognition, that caused the rocks to echo, and also made the brows of
Coubitant to contract. He saw that he must delay his purpose until the
travelers were out of sight: and this chafed his spirit: but he
controlled it, and proposed to Henrich and Oriana to seat themselves on
the verge of the precipice, and watch the course of the travelers,
while he went to reconnoiter the steep path by which he designed to
join them. They did so, and the hushes that grew to the edge of the
steep declivity shaded the spot, and hid them from the retreating form
of Coubitant.

For some time they sat together, admiring the beauty of the scene
before them, and watching the long procession in the defile below, as
it wound, 'in Indian file,’ between the rocks and tangled bushes that
cumbered the vale, until it was almost out of sight.  Rudolph lay
beside them, apparently asleep; but the slumber of a faithful watch-dog
is always light, and Rodolph was one of the most vigilant of his race.
Why did he now utter a low uneasy moan, as if he dreamt of danger? It
was so low that, if Henrich heard it, he did not pay any heed to it,
and continued talking to Oriana of their approaching journey, and of
their plans for the future, in perfect security.

But their conversation was suddenly and painfully interrupted.  A
fierce bark from Rodolph, as he sprang on some one in the bush close
beside Henrich, and the grasp of a powerful hand upon his shoulder at
the same instant, caused the young Sachem to glance round. He found
himself held to the ground by Coubitant, who was endeavoring to force
him over the precipice; and would, from the suddenness and strength of
the attack, have undoubtedly succeeded, but for the timely aid of
Rodolph, who had seized on his left arm, and held it back in his
powerful jaws.  He was, however, unable to displace the savage, or
release his master from the perilous situation in which he was placed;
and, owing to the manner in which Henrich had seated himself on the
extreme verge of the rock that overhung the precipice, it was out of
his power to spring to his feet, or offer any effectual resistance. The
slender but not feeble arm of Oriana, as she clung frantically to her
husband, and strove to draw him back to safety, was, apparently, the
only human power that now preserved him from instant destruction.  Not
a sound was uttered by one of the struggling group; scarcely a breath
was drawn--so intense was the mental emotion, and the muscular effort
that nerved every fiber during these awfully protracted moments.

But help was nigh! He, in whose hands are the lives of His creatures,
sent aid when aid was so needful. A loud cry was heard in the thicket;
and, as Coubitant made one more desperate effort to hurl his detested
rival from the rock, and almost succeeded in flinging the whole group
together into the depths below--he felt himself encircled by arms as
muscular as his own, and suddenly dragged backwards.

Henrich sprang on the firm ground, and beheld his faithful friend
Jyanough in fierce conflict with the treacherous Coubitant, and
powerfully assisted by Rodolph, who had loosed the murderer's arm, but
continued to assail and wound him as he struggled to draw his new
antagonist to the brink, and seemed resolved to have one victim, even
if he shared the same dreadful fate himself. Henrich flew to the aid of
his friend, leaving Oriana motionless, and almost breathless, on the
spot where she had endured such agony of mind, and such violent bodily
exertion. For once, her strength and spirit failed her; for the trial
had been too great, and faintness overcame her as she saw her husband
again approach his deadly and now undisguised foe.

Coubitant saw her sink to the ground, and, with a mighty effort, he
shook off the grasp of Jyanough, and darted towards Oriana. I thought
I would stay in Portugal very soon, and not afraid that anyone I
recognize, uncover and disclose my name, my religion and my caste so
hated today throughout Spain.

Unfortunately they have not. Stakeholders have recognized me my enemies,
have spread the word among the common people that I am Jewish and
have caused the abuse that I had been a victim, if not these noble
knights me relief. - And what is your status and your name -
asked the King. that is not afraid to give credit hesitate to
declare the elderly.

Garcia de Resende, who accompanied the King and not far away, then
approached and said: - It may well be satisfied with Your Highness
This old man has been cleared of any injury. It is not only Portuguese,
but one of those Portuguese who give more glory to Portugal in Portugal
for our age so glorious.

And then going to the elderly and lengthening the right hand to his
close friends, added ínclito trovador: - Have you forgotten me, and
perhaps of the friendly ties with that we join together in Rome and the
long talks we had there when I was as Secretary of the Embassy
of pompous Tristan de Acuña - How was I to forget Garcia de Resende? -
said the questioning -. I could not forget one of my best friends,
whose songbook also given by him, and I made my delight worth reading
to keep my soul and refine the Portuguese language, which was the first
to speak. - But All this - said the King eagerly, and faced with
the elderly - not just tell you who you are. - Forgive my tardiness,
sir.

And then he added, echándose at the foot of the King: - I am the
son of a loyal servant of your heroic ancestor Alfonso V Africanus.
I am Judas Abravanel, better known today in the world with the Hebrew
name of Leon. Abravanel Judas had just spoken these words, many of the
group, particularly women, to contemplate him surrounded and applauded.
Its discretísimos _Diálogos of amor_ were very much admired at
the court. The Queen, the Infanta Doña Beatriz and other ladies took a
very wise reading in Italian as those sublime philosophies.
Rodolph's expressive countenance told me, too, that
there was danger to be feared; and no red man can excel Rodolph in
sagacity.  So I resolved to be at hand if succor should be needed; and,
having waited till you were all fairly out of sight and hearing, I
followed slowly and stealthily, and reached the verge of the thicket
just in time to hear the warning cry of your noble dog, and see that
dastardly villain spring upon you from the bush. The rest you know: and
now you will believe me, when I own my conviction that your destruction
has been his object since the time I joined your camp: and that, to
accomplish it, and obtain possession of Oriana, he returned to
Tisquantum's tribe, and has worn the mask of friendship for so many
months. My soul is relieved of a burden by his death; and forgive me,
Henrich, if I own that I glory in having executed on him the vengeance
he deserved, and having devoted him to the fate he designed for you.'

Henrich could not regret the death, however dreadful, of one who seemed
to have been so bent on the destruction of his happiness and his life;
but the thought of all the guilt that lay on Coubitant's soul,
unrepented of and unatoned, saddened and solemnized his spirit; and he
only replied to Jyanough's exulting words by a kindly pressure of his
friend's hand, as they approached Oriana.

Her senses bad returned, and, with them, a painful sense of danger and
of dread, and she looked anxiously, and almost wildly, around her, as
Henrich knelt beside her, and gently raised her from the ground.

‘Where is he?' she exclaimed.  'Where is that fearful form, and those
eyes of unearthly fire that glared on me just now?  You are safe, my
Henrich,' she added; and, as she looked up in his face, tears of joy
and gratitude burst from her large expressive eyes, and relieved her
bursting heart. You are safe, my Henrich: and oh that that dark form of
dread and evil might never, never, cross my path again!'

'Fear not, Oriana,' replied Jyanough, 'he never more will darken your
way through life. He has met the death he designed for Henrich, and let
us think of him no more. It is time to return to the camp; and your
husband and I will support you down the hill.'

'I am well, quite well, now !' cried Oriana, and she rose from the
ground, and clung to Henrich's arm, as if to assure herself of his
presence and safety.  'I could walk through the world thus supported,
and thus guarded, too,' she added, as she stroked the head of the
joyous Rodolph, who now bounded round her and Henrich with all his
wonted spirit.  Hence, very learned men have not neglected to invent,
but they have had a lot of glory. Antonio de Nebrija, Castilla egregia
master of humane letters, is the company that invented the King
Ferdinand the Catholic, which was the Gordian knot, disrupted and
broken by the hand and sword of Alexander, with a sign that read :
_Tanto monta_, or that it's the same break to unleash.

And then Luis Marliani, Bishop of Tuy and distinguished physician
and mathematician, invented company even better for Carlos César
V, replacing the link Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy.

And that was and is the firm's representation
of the columns
of Hercules, with this letter: _Plus ultra_;
brief, eloquent
and sublime words, which evoke in the minds
of those who see
the vastness of the ocean, islands and
continents incognito,
In short, the new world, discovered and
mastered by the tenacity, courage and fortune of the sons of Iberia.

Companies are these policies, but also have tended to invent Galanes
lovers sometimes very funny and kind business. Let's see if you are you
think of a worthy and commendable that suits your purposes. Morsamor
replied: - In truth, I been a company that sounds good. If you spot
something, be on is clear. I put a field divided into quiñones or luck,
but no one can cultivate and enjoy because it surrounds a salamander
that wraps around the field.

Salon's messenger further
stated that, having buried the corpse where it lay, he had led the
people on, and should pursue the path pointed out by Coubitant, and
hasten to prepare the necessary huts for our reception. I dispatched
the messenger again with further directions to Salon; and ere this, no
doubt, the encampment is formed on the shores of the great river to
which we are journeying. 'Father,' he added, as he turned towards
Tisquantum, ‘your eye is dim, but your sagacity is as keen as ever.
Can you discern that rising smoke, and tell us its cause?'

The aged Sachem had been riding silently and abstractedly along. The
tall dry grass--now ripe, and shedding its seeds on every side--rose
frequently above his head; for he was mounted on a low strong horse,
and he had not observed the cloud that had attracted the attention of
the younger travelers. He now paused, and looked earnestly to the
south, in which direction the smoke appeared right before the advancing
party, and from whence a strong and sultry wind was blowing.  As the
prairie grass rose and fell in undulating waves, the old man obtained a
distinct view of the smoke, which now seemed to have spread
considerably to the right and left, and also to be approaching towards
the travelers.

The narrow, zigzag track of the deer and the buffaloes was the only
beaten path through the prairie; and this could only be traveled by two
or three horsemen abreast. The old Sachem, and Henrich, and Oriana, led
the party; and Jyanough, and Mailah, and young Lincoya, all well
mounted, rode immediately in the rear. The attendants of the two
families, and a few experienced warriors, some on foot and some on
horseback, followed in the winding path.

On the halt of the foremost rank, the rest rode up, and were
immediately made aware of the ominous signs which hitherto they had not
noticed. Instantly terror was depicted in every countenance; and the
deep low voice of Tisquantum sank into every heart, as he exclaimed,
'The prairie is on fire!'

'Turn!' cried Henrich, 'and fly! Let each horseman take one of those on
foot behind, and fly for your lives. Cast the baggage on the ground--
stay for nothing, but our people's lives.'

He was obeyed: men and women were all mounted; and Henrich snatched his
boy from the arms of the woman who carried him, and, giving the child
to Oriana, took up the terrified attendant on his own powerful steed.

The wind rose higher: and now the roar of the pursuing flames came
fearfully on the fugitives, growing louder and louder, while volumes of
dense smoke were driven over their heads, and darkened the sky that had
so lately shone in all its summer brightness.

Headlong the party dashed along the winding path, and sometimes the
terrified horses leaped into the tall grass, seeking a straighter
course, or eager to pass by those who had fled before them. But this
was a vain attempt.  The wild pea-vines, and other creeping plants that
stretched among the grass, offered such impediments to rapid flight, as
forced them again into the path.

And now the wild inhabitants of the broad savanna came rushing on, and
joined the furious flight, adding difficulty and confusion to the
horror of the scene. Buffaloes, elks, and antelopes, tore madly through
the grass, jostling the horses and their riders, and leaving them far
in the rear. The screaming eagle rode high above among the clouds of
smoke, and many smaller birds fell suffocated to the ground; while all
the insect tribe took wing, and everything that had life strove to
escape the dread pursuer.

It was a desperate race!  The strength of the fugitives began to fail,
and no refuge, no hope, seemed near.  Alas! to some the race was lost.
The blinding effect of the dense smoke that filled the atmosphere, the
suffocating smell of the burning mass of vegetable matter, and the
lurid glare of the red flames that came on so rapidly, overpowered
alike the horses and their riders: while the roaring of the fire--which
sounded like a mighty rushing cataract--and the oppressive heat, seemed
to confuse the senses, and destroy the vital powers of the more feeble
and ill-mounted of the fugitives.  Several of the horses fell, and
their devoted riders sank to the ground, unable any longer to sustain
the effort for life; and Henrich had the agony of passing by the
wretched victims, and leaving them to their fate, for he knew that he
had no power to save them.

Many miles were traversed--and still the unbroken level of the prairie
spread out before them--and still the roaring and destructive flames
came borne on the mighty winds behind them. A few scattered trees were
the only objects that broke the monotony of the plains; and the hills,
at the foot of which they had traveled that morning, and where alone
they could lock for safety, were still at a great distance. At length,
the aged Tisquantum's powers of endurance began to give way. The reins
almost fell from his hands; and, in trembling accents, he declared his
total inability to proceed any further.

Leave me, my children!' he exclaimed, 'to perish here; for my strength
is gone; and what matters it where the old Tisquantum breathes his
last. Mahneto is here, even in this awful hour, to receive my spirit;
and I shall but lose a few short months or years of age and infirmity.'

'Never, my father!' cried H enrich, as he caught the reins of the
Sachem's horse; and while he still urged his own overloaded steed to
fresh exertions, endeavored also to support the failing form of his
father-in-law. 'Never will we leave you to die alone in this fiery
desert. Hold on, my father! hold on yet a little longer till we gain
the defile, where the flames cannot follow as, and all will yet be
well!'

'I cannot, my son!' replied the old man. 'Farewell, my dear, my noble
boy!--farewell, my Oriana!’ And his head sank down upon the neck of his
horse.

He would have fallen to the ground but for Henrich, who now checked the
panting steeds, and sprang down to his feet in time to receive him in
his arms.

Fly, Oriana!' he exclaimed, as his wife also drew the bridle of her
foaming horse by his side. 'Fly, Oriana, my beloved! save your own
life, and that of our child! If possible, I will preserve your father--
but if not, farewell! and God be with you!'

One moment Oriana urged her horse again to its swiftest pace, as if in
obedience to her husband's command--the next, she was at Mailah's side,
holding her infant in one arm, white with the other she guided and
controlled the terrified animal on which she rode.

'Here, Mailah!' she cried--and she clasped the child to her breast, and
imprinted one passionate kiss on its cheek--' Take my Ludovico, and
save his life, and I will return to my husband and father. If we follow
you, well. If not, be a mother to my child, and may the blessing of God
be on you!'

She almost flung the infant into the extended arms of Mailah; and then,
having with difficulty turned her horse, and forced him to retrace his
steps, she again rejoined those with whom she was resolved to live or
die.

One glance of affectionate reproach she met from her Henrich's eyes:
but he did not speak. With the assistance of Ludovico's nurse, who rode
behind him, he had just lifted Tisquantum to his own saddle, and was
preparing to mount himself, and endeavor to support the unconscious old
man, and again commence the race far life or death. But it seemed a
hopeless attempt--so utterly helpless was the Sachem, and so unable to
retain his seat. Quick as thought Oriana unbound her long twisted
girdle of many colors; and, flinging it to Henrich, desired him to bind
the failing form of her father to his own. He did so: and the nurse
having mounted behind Oriana, again the now furious steeds started
forward. All these actions had taken less time to perform than they
have to relate; but yet the pursuing flames had gained much way, and
the flight became more desperate, and more hazardous. Again the
prostrate forms of horses and their riders met the eyes of Henrich and
Oriana; but in the thickness of the air, and the wild speed at which
they were compelled to pass, it was impossible to distinguish who were
the unhappy victims.

'Heaven be praised!' at length Henrich exclaimed--and they were the
first words he had uttered since the flight had been resumed--' Heaven
be praised! I see the rocks dimly through the clouds of smoke. Yet a
few moments, and we shall be safe. Already the grass around us is
shorter and thinner: we are leaving the savanna, and shall soon reach
the barren defile, where the flames will find no fuel'

The horses seemed to know that safety was near at hand, for they
bounded forward with fresh vigor, and quickly joined the group of
breathless fugitives, who, having reached the extremity of the prairie,
had paused to rest from their desperate exertions, and to look out for
those of their companions who were missing, but who they hoped would
soon overtake them.

Oriana snatched her now smiling boy from Mailah's arms, and embraced
him with a fervency and emotion that showed how little she had hoped to
see his face again. But her own happy and grateful feelings were
painfully interrupted by her friend's exclamation of agony--

'Where is my Lincoya?' she cried. 'Did he not follow with you? I saw
him close to me when I paused to take your child: and he is not here!
O, my Lincoya! my brave, my beautiful boy! Have you perished in the
flames, with none to help you?' And she broke forth into cries and
lamentations that wrung the heart of Oriana.

She could give her no tidings of the lost youth, for she knew not whose
fainting forms she had passed in the narrow shrouded path; and it was
utterly impossible now to go and seek him, for the flames had followed
hard upon their flight, and were still raging over the mass of dry
herbage, and consuming even the scattered tufts that grew among the
stones at the entrance to the ravine.  So intense was the heat of the
glowing surface, even after the blaze had died away, that it would not
be practicable to pass over it for many hours; and the party, who had
reached a place of safety, were compelled to make arrangements for
passing the night where they were, not only that they might be ready to
seek the remains of their lost friends the next morning, but also
because their own weary limbs, and those of their trembling horses,
refused to carry them any further. All the provisions and other
baggage, which they had carried for their journey, had been abandoned
in the flight, end had become a rapid prey to the devouring flames. But
several of the scorched and affrighted prairie fowls, and a few hares--
exhausted with their long race--were easily secured by the young
hunters, end afforded a supper to the weary company.

The horses were then turned loose to find fodder for themselves, and to
drink at the little brook that still trickled among the rocks; and
large fires having been lighted to scare the wild beasts that, like our
travelers, had been driven for refuge to the ravine, all lay down to
sleep, thankful to the deities in whom they respectively trusted, for
their preservation in such imminent peril.

Fervent were the prayers and praises that were offered up that night by
the little band of Christians, among whom Henrich always officiated as
minister: and even the distressed spirit of Mailah was comforted and
calmed as she joined in his words of thanksgiving, and in his heartfelt
petitions that the lost Lincoya might yet be restored to his parents;
or that, if his spirit had already passed away from earth, it might
have been purified by faith, and received into the presence of its God
and Savior.

Mailah was tranquilized; but her grief and anxiety were not removed:
and she passed that sad night in sleepless reflection on the dreadful
fate of her only child, and in sincere endeavors so to realize and
apply all the blessed truths she had learnt from Henrich, as to derive
from them that comfort to her own soul, and that perfect resignation to
the will of God, that she well knew they were designed to afford to the
Christian believer. And that night of watchfulness did not pass
unprofitably to Mailah's spirit.

But where was Lincoya? Where was the youth whose mother mourned him as
dead? He was safe amid the top most boughs of a lonely tree, that now
stood scorched and leafless in the midst of the smoldering plain,
several miles from the safe retreat that had been gained by his
friends.

The horse on which he rode that day, though fleet and active, was
young, and uninured to long continued and violent exertion; and, at
length, its foot getting entangled in some creeping plant that had
grown across the pathway, it had fallen violently to the ground, and
thrown its young rider among the prairie-grass, where he lay, stunned,
and unable to rise, until all his companions had passed by. Then he
regained the path, and attempted to raise the exhausted creature from
the earth: but all in vain. Its trembling limbs were unable to support
it; and Lincoya saw that he could no longer look to his favorite steed
for the safety of his own life, and must abandon it to perish in the
flames.

But the boy was an Indian, and accustomed to Indian difficulties and
Indian expedients.  He glanced rapidly around for some means of
preservation; and, seeing a tree of some magnitude, and at no great
distance, he resolved to try to reach it ere the coming fire had seized
on the surrounding herbage, and seek for a refuge in its summit. With
much difficulty, he forced his way through the tall rank grass that
waved above his head, and the wild vines that were entangled with it in
every direction; and he reached the foot of the tree just as the flames
were beginning to scorch its outmost branches. He sprang upward; and,
climbing with the agility of a squirrel, he was soon in the highest
fork of the tree, and enabled to look down in security on the
devastating fire beneath him. All around was one wide sea of ruddy
flames, that shot up in forked and waving tongues high amid the heavy
clouds of smoke. Happily for Lincoya, the herbage beneath his tree of
refuge grew thin and scanty, and did not afford much food for the
devouring elements; otherwise it must have consumed his retreat, and
suffocated him even in its topmost boughs. As it was, the lower
branches only were destroyed, and the boy was able to endure the heat
and smoke until the roaring flames had passed beneath him, and he
watched them driving onward in the wake of his flying friends.

To follow his companions that night was hopeless, for how could he
traverse that red-hot plain? He, therefore, settled himself firmly
among the sheltering branches, to one of which he bound himself with
his belt of deer skin, and prepared to pass the night in that position,
as he had passed many similar ones when he had been out on hunting
expeditions with his father-in-law Jyanough.

Long he gazed on the strange aspect of the wide savanna, as it glowed
in the darkness of night, with a lurid and fearful glare, that only
made the gloom more visible. But weariness and exhaustion at length
overcame him, and he fell asleep, and did not awake until the sun was
high in the heavens. The prospect around him was changed, but the plain
looked even more dreary and desolate than it appeared while the fire
was at work on its clothing of grass. Now all was laid low, and smoking
ashes alone covered the nakedness of the savanna.  Lincoya gazed
earnestly in every direction, that he might make sure of the route he
must follow in order to rejoin his friends; and his attention was
attracted by the figures of two men approaching towards the tree in
which he sat, and apparently engage d in earnest conversation.  For a
moment his hopes led him to believe that they were Jyanough and
Henrich, who had returned, probably, in search of him; and he was about
to hail them with a loud and joyful cry. But the caution so early
instilled into the mind of an Indian restrained him: and well it was
for him that he had not thus given vent to his feelings. The men drew
nearer, and he saw, to his amazement, that they were Coubitant--he
whose death and burial had been so confidently reported, and Salon--the
trusty Salon--to whom the conduct of the tribe had been deputed after
the supposed death of the appointed leader.

They came beneath the tree; and, seating themselves at its foot,
proceeded to refresh themselves with food and water, that looked
tempting to the eyes of the fasting and parched Lincoya, as he gazed
noiselessly and attentively at their proceedings, and listened to their
discourse.

'At last I have been successful, Salon,' said Coubitant to his
companion. 'At last I may rejoice in the destruction of those I hate
with so bitter a hatred. Those burnt and broken weapons were Henrich's,
end this ornament belonged to Oriana.'  As he said this he displayed in
his hand a girdle clasp, that Lincoya recognized as having been worn by
the Squaw-Sachem on the previous day.  It had fallen to the ground when
she gave the girdle to Henrich: and many of his personal accoutrements
had also been cast there, unheeded, in his anxiety to save Tisquantum.

'I would I could have been more sure of all the bodies that lay just
beyond,' continued the savage; 'but I think I could not be mistaken in
those I most wished to find, burnt and disfigured as they were.  And
the horses, too, were surely those they rode; for I knew the fragments
of Tisquantum's trappings, and recognized the form of Lincoya's pony.
Yes! they are all destroyed; I know it, and I exult in it! Now, who
shall prevent my being Sachem of the tribe, and leading my warriors to
the destruction of the detested white invaders of our land?

'Truly,' replied Salon, 'your last scheme has succeeded better than any
of the others you have tried; and I now gladly hail you as Sachem of
our tribe. I have made sure of the fidelity of many of our bravest
warriors; and when those who would have taken the white man's part, and
followed him in obedience to Tisquantum's wishes, find that he is dead,
they will readily take you for their leader, as the bravest of our
tribe, and the most determined foe of the pale-faces.  But it is
possible that Henrich has even yet escaped us. The bodies that lie
scorched on the ashes are fewer than the number that were to follow us.
We must, therefore, take measures to seize and destroy those who yet
live, if they are likely to disturb our scheme. Of course, they will
again set out on the same track, as being that which will most quickly
bring them where food and water are to be found. We have only to lie in
wait at the other side of the savanna, where the narrow mountain pass
leads to the river, and our arrows and spears will be sufficient to
silence every tongue that could speak against your claims.’

'You are right, nay faithful Salon,' answered Coubitant, with a sign of
warns approbation of the forethought of his accomplice. 'Let us lose no
time in crossing the plain; for, doubtless, the survivors of this
glorious fire will be early on their march, and it would not do for
them to overtake us in the midst of the ruin we have wrought. We will
set all inquiries to rest, and then we will report to our tribe that
the dreadful conflagration has deprived them of both their Chiefs, and
that it rests with themselves to choose another. O, Salon! my soul
burns to lead them to Paomet, that stronghold of our country's foes!'

The murderers arose, and took their way directly across the prairie:
for all the rank herbage being now reduced to ashes, they were no
longer obliged to follow the winding course of the buffalo track.  They
proceeded at a rapid pace; but it was some time ere Lincoya ventured to
descend from his hiding-place, as he feared being observed on the level
plain, if either of those ruthless villains should east a glance behind
them. At length their retreating forms appeared to him like specks in
the distance; and he came down from his watch-tower, and fled as fast
as his active young limbs could carry him, towards the spot where he
hoped to rejoin his friends. He had not very long continued his flight,
when he perceived several persons on horseback approaching towards him;
and soon he found himself in the arms of his joyful mother, and was
affectionately greeted by Jyanough and Henrich, who, with several
others, had come out to look if any of their missing companions were
still within reach of human aid.

All but Lincoya had perished! The fire and the smoke had not only
destroyed their lives, but had so blackened and disfigured them that it
was impossible to identify a single individual.  A grave was dug in the
yet warm earth; and all the victims were buried sufficiently deep to
preserve their remains from the ravages of wild beasts; and then the
party returned in all haste to those who anxiously awaited them at
their place of refuge.

On the way, Lincoya related to his father-in-law and Henrich the whole
of the conversation which he had heard between Coubitant and Salon,
while he was in his safe retreat; and their surprise at finding that
the former had survived his desperate fall from the brow of the
precipice, and still lived to plan and work out schemes of cruelty and
malice, was only equaled by their indignation at thus discovering the
treachery and deceit of Salon. They had hitherto put the most entire
confidence in the fidelity of this man: and if they had still
entertained any doubts or suspicions as to the honesty of Coubitant's
intentions, they had relied on Salon to discover his plans, and prevent
any mischief being accomplished.

The whole story was told to Tisquantum; and his counsel was asked as to
the best mode of now counteracting the further schemes of the traitors,
and escaping the snare which they found was yet to be laid for their
destruction. It would be impossible for them to reach the camp on the
banks of the Missouri, by the path which Coubitant had pointed out,
without passing through the defile where the villain and his
confederate now proposed to lie in wait for them, and where, in spite
of their superior numbers, many of their party would probably be
wounded by the arrows and darts of their hidden foes, without having
any opportunity of defending themselves.  That route was therefore
abandoned.  But the old Sachem remembered having traversed this part of
the continent many years ago, and he knew of a track to the west, by
which the mountains that skirted the course of the Missouri might be
avoided, and the rivers reached at a considerable distance above the
place at which the encampment was appointed to be formed.  This road
was, indeed, much longer than that across the prairie, and would occupy
several days to traverse; so that it was doubtful whether Coubitant
would wait so long in his lurking-place, or whether he would conclude
that the Chiefs were dead, and return to take the command of the tribe.

Nevertheless, no other course was open; and, with as little delay as
possible, the journey was commenced. A scanty supply of food was
obtained by the bows and arrows of the hunters, and water was
occasionally met with in the small rivulets that flowed from the hills,
and wandered on until they eventually lost themselves in the broad
Missouri.

Inured to privations and to toilsome journeys, the Indian party heeded
them not, but cheerfully proceeded on their way until, at length, they
beheld the wigwams of their tribe standing on a green meadow near the
river's side. They hastened on, and were received with joyful
acclamations by the inhabitants, who had almost despaired of ever seeing
them again. The conflagration of the prairie was known to them; but
almost all of them were ignorant of the true cause of the awful
calamity, and attributed it entirely to accident. Nor were any
suspicions aroused in their minds by the conduct of Coubitant and Salon,
who had pretended the greatest alarm and anxiety for the fate of the
Chiefs and their party, and had set out as soon as it was possible to
traverse the savanna, in the hope, as they declared, of rendering
assistance to any of the Sachem's company who might have survived the
catastrophe.

Much to the relief of all the party, they found that neither Coubitant
nor his accomplice had yet returned to the camp; and their prolonged
absence was becoming a source of uneasiness to the rest of the tribe,
who were preparing to send out a party of men to search for them, the
very day that Henrich led his detachment into the village.

It was agreed by the Sachems and Jyanough, that they would not
communicate to the rest of their people all they had discovered of the
treachery of Coubitant and Salon; as they knew not yet how many of the
warriors might have been induced to join in the conspiracy, and connive
at their crimes.  They, therefore, accounted for having traveled by so
circuitous a route, on the plea of their inability to cross the prairie
without any supply of either provisions or water; and they commanded
the party who were about to search for Coubitant and. Salon, to set out
immediately, and to use every possible exertion to find them, and bring
them in safety to the camp. They could have told their messengers
exactly where the villains were to be found; but that would have
betrayed a greater knowledge of their movements than it would have been
prudent to disclose; and they only directed the men to shout aloud
every now and then, as they traversed the mountain passes, that the
lost travelers might know of their approach; and also to carry with
them a supply of food sufficient to last several days.

The messengers departed: and then Jyanough set himself to work, with
all an Indian's sagacity, to find out the extent to which the
conspiracy had been carried among the warriors of the tribe. He
succeeded in convicting four men of the design to elevate Coubitant to
the chieftainship, and of a knowledge and participation in his last
desperate scheme for the destruction of the Sachem and all his family.
Summary justice was, therefore, executed on the culprits, who scorned
to deny their crimes when once they were charged with them; and
submitted to the sentence of their Chief with a fortitude that almost
seemed to expiate their offence. The most daring of the four openly
exulted in his rebellious projects, and boasted of his long-concealed
hatred towards the pale-faced stranger, who presumed to exercise
authority over the free red men; and Tisquantum deemed it politic to
inflict on him a capital punishment. They were the commanders of the
"chaluteros, Ocean fishing Vaporcito armed with a gun, who had entered
the Mediterranean to prosecute the submersibles. Iban wearing waterproof
fabric, with a hull waxing, as well as North Sea fishermen, coal-smelling
water and stormy. Spend weeks and weeks at sea, irrespective of
the time, sleeping at the bottom of a creek that reeks of stale fish,
keeping patrol rugiese although the storm, jumping like a bottle cap
to wave wave to repeat the feats pirates of old. Ferragut had a relative
in the army to be agglomerated in Thessaloniki to move inland. I did
not want to leave without seeing him, and spent several mornings
making inquiries at the offices of Staff. He was a nephew of his, a
son of the Blanes knitwear manufacturer, who had fled to Barcelona at
the beginning of the war, with other boys amateur _Los Segadores_
singing and disturb the tranquility of the "consul of Spain» Madrid
sent. The son of peaceful bourgeois Catalan had enlisted in a battalion
of the Foreign Legion, composed largely of Spanish and Latin American.
Blanes begged the captain saw his son. I was proud and sad at the same
time for this romantic adventure that bloomed unexpectedly in the
utilitarian and monotonous existence of the family.

A boy who had so great a future in the factory of his father! ... Here
was the story, with moist eyes and uncertain voice, the deeds of her
eldest son: wounded in Champagne, two summonses and Cruz de Guerra. Who
would have imagined that it could be a hero ... Now, his battalion
was in Thessaloniki, after fighting in the Dardanelles. - See if you got
- repeated Blanes -. Tell him that his mother will die of grief ... You
can do a lot!

But all he could do Captain Ferragut was get a permit and an old car to
visit the camp of the legionnaires. The arid plains around Thessaloniki
was crossed by many paths. The train of artillery, the string of cars
rolled by newly opened roads that the rains had turned into quagmires.
The mud was the worst calamity in this extremely flat dusty in dry
weather. Farragat Two long hours spent in camp before the camp
is reached its destination. Their car had to stop and give way to endless
parade of trucks. Sometimes they cut the step-machine guns, armored
car, large pieces dragged by tractors, carts with pyramids of
supply of bags and boxes.

Everywhere thousands of soldiers of different colors and races varied.
The captain recalled the great invasions of History: Jerjes, Alexander,
Genghis Khan, all drivers of men, as they took the peoples mass behind
his horse, making slaves of the earth fighters. Only females missing
soldiers and swarms of kids, to be exact resemblance to the exodus of
warriors past. At mid-afternoon was able to hug her nephew. She was
with two other volunteers, an Andalusian, and a South American,
joined the three in the fraternity home and the continuing attrition
by death.

Ferragut leads to a canteen _mercanti_, established near the camp of
the battalion. Consumers were sitting under a canvas awning, with boxes
that had contained ammunition and hardware or craft of making tables.
This misery was offset by the prices. In no _Hôtel-derived beverages
Palace_ value so extraordinary. He felt the sea a few times a fatherly
affection for these three young men, who nicknamed the 'Three
Musketeers'.

He wanted the best gift that has the _mercanti_, and he brought a
bottle of champagne, light, or rather tea Reims, presenting it as
if it were an elixir made from gold.

Fluid amber, sparkling in the vessels appeared restore its former existence
in the three youngsters. Annealed by the sun and the weather, accustomed
to the tough life of the war, had almost forgotten the sweetness
and comfort of previous years.

Ulises examined carefully. Had grown during the campaign, with the
last spurt of youth. His arms sprang from the sleeves of overly capote
short for them. The gymnastics of the gears and rough handling
of the blade had widened their wrists and their hands encallecido. The
memory of his son emerged from his memory. Behold and made a soldier,
like his cousin! See them suffer all the rudeness of the military
presence ... but live! For non enternecerse, drink and pay attention
to what they said the three youths. The legionnaire Blanes, romantic
as it should be a manufacturer's son involved in adventures, spoke
of the exploits of the troops of the East with all the enthusiasm
of twenty-two years.

Lacked the time to launch a bayonet against the Bulgarians and
reach Adrianópolis. The war in Macedonia was closely played as Catalan.
- Let's avenge Roger de Flor! - Said seriously. And he wishes his uncle
mourn and laugh with this simple faith, only comparable to the
memory of the retrospective Labarta poet and the Secretary of people
every day that he regretted the defeat of remote Ponza.

Blanes as a knight errant explained the reason which led to war.
Wanted to fight for the freedom of all oppressed peoples through the
resurrection of forgotten all nationalities: Poles, Czechs,
Ruthenians, Yugo-Slavs ... And simply, as if saying something
indisputable, Catalonia included among the peoples who wept tears of
blood under the lashes of tyranny. Here jumped his outraged the
Andalusian. Spent time arguing heatedly, changing and looking for
insults then, as if they could not live without each other. This is
not for freedom beat these people or what.

He had the long view: it was short sighted and selfish as his friend "the
Catalan. He gave his blood for the whole world would be free and
rid of all the monarchies. - Me bato by France, the country is
because of the great Revolution.

His story does not matter to me: for kings and we have ours. But as of
July 14, which France is mine and I consider all men. She stopped a
few seconds, looking for a more specific statement: - I bato, captain,
for Danton and Hoche. Ferragut He saw in his imagination the white
hair of Michelet and Lamartine Tupe romantic double pedestal on a
volume containing the story-poem of the Revolution. - I-bato in
France he said finally - it is the home of Victor Hugo. presintió
this Republican Ulysses twenty years should keep a notebook in his
backpack, written in pencil, full of verses.

The South American, accustomed to the disputes of his two companions
were nails looked black with gloomy despair of a prophet who
contemplates his homeland in ruins.

Blanes, bourgeois son, admired him for his origin. The day of the
mobilization had been in Paris to register as a volunteer riding a car
fifty horses. He and his driver were joined together. Then made
donations of his luxurious car. He wanted to be because all the young
soldier of his club started the war. Furthermore, it flattered him that
his latest lover to pay a few tears of admiration and amazement to watch
him in uniform. Felt the need to move all the ladies who had
danced the tango with him until the week before.

Moreover, millions of his grandfather "the Galician", something his father
Roide Creole, was breaking in his hands. - This lasts too long, master.
At first he had believed in a war of six months. The bullets he cared
little, it was terrible lice, do not move the clothing, be deprived of
the daily bath. If he would have guessed! ... His enthusiasm and
summarized with this statement: - Me bato by France because it is
a country _chic_.

Only in Paris is well-dressed women. The Germans, as much as we do, will
always be a regular. No need to add more: that was all. The three
recalled the months of hell suffered recently in the Dardanelles,
in an area of six kilometers conquered bayonet. A hail of bullets fell
incessantly about them. Had to live under the earth like moles, and
even so, they reached the outbreak of large shells. In this strip of
land against Troy, which had crept remote history of mankind, the blades,
opening the trenches, faced with the most rare finds. One day,
Blanes and his companions were brought to light vases, figurines
and dishes that had thirty centuries.

Slack cut again exhaling a repulsive stench unbearable. Trenches
were opened on a piece of land that had served as a cemetery on
the Turks. The swollen belly is started under the blades, spilling its
juices putrefaction. The need to shield legionaries forced to live with
her face at the bodies that appear on the vertical cut of the earth.
- The dead were the truffle in a cake - said the South American -.

I had to spend a whole day with my nose touching the intestines of a
Turkish dead two weeks before ...

No, war is not _chic_, master, over talk of heroism and sublime things
in newspapers and books. Ulysses wanted to see again 'the three
musketeers "before from Thessaloniki, but the battalion had set up
its field, with many miles inland, off the front lines in Bulgaria.

Blanes enthusiastic and fired his rifle against the murderers of
Roger de Flor. In mid-November came _Mare nostrum_ á Marseilles. Your
experienced captain always admired some doubling Cape Croisette, seeing
how there was a bow to the vast sea curve. In the middle of it, a steep
hill and moved towards the sea naked, holding its summit in the
basilica and the square tower of Our Lady of the Guard. Marseilles
was the metropolis of the Mediterranean, the port terminal for all the
sailors _mare nostrum_ . In the bay, short waves, stood several islands
yellowish, with strips of foam, and one of the towers robust
fictional castle of If.

Everybody, from the latest ratings Ferragut, contemplating the city
itself as something that was hovering at the bottom of the bay, its
forests of masts and their pile of gray buildings on which shone the
Byzantine domes of the new cathedral. Around Marseilles opened a bare
floor height and dry, cheerfully colored by the sun of Provence.

Villages and hamlets moteaban white these slopes, as well as _bastidas_
'villas' of pleasure to the merchants of the city. Beyond the semicircle,
the horizon is closed by an amphitheater of rugged mountains and
dismal. In previous trips, the sight of the gigantic golden Madonna,
who shines like a fire that starts at the top of Nuestra Señora de la
Guardia, scattered the rejoicing over the bridge of the ship. - Marseilles,
Toni! - said the captain merrily -. Invites you to a house in
_bouillabaisse_ Pascal.

And Toni contracted with the hairy face of gluttony smile seeing in
advance the restaurant's famous harbor, its halls smelling twilight
of shellfish and spicy sauces, and on the table's deep dish of fish
with a succulent broth tinged with saffron.

But Ulysses lost his vigorous joy of life. It provides the city with eyes
romantic but sad. Landing was the last time, sick, without will,
dumbfounded by the tragic disappearance of her son.

The _Mare nostrum_ reached the mouth of the old port, taking on his right
batteries Faro. The old port was the most interesting memories of the
former Marseilles. Penetrated water like a knife in the heart of the
village, the city extended its docks.

It was a huge plaza of the water flowing to all the streets, but their
area is insignificant for the maritime traffic, and eight new ports
came to cover the entire northern shore of the bay. An endless
breakwater, a wall longer than the city , extended parallel to the
coast and in the space between the shore and this obstacle, requiring
foam and roar of the waves, extending the eight large ports,
communicating with each other since the call of Joliette, which was
to access to the distant Estaca.

Yet the latter extending inland by the great underground canal that
puts the city in communication with the Rhone.

Ferragut had seen moored in the marine succession of coats of all the
earth and even of all times.

Along with the huge transatlantic balance cock the ancient tartan
and some Greek ships, heavy and archaic forms, which were recalled in
the fleets described _Ilíada_. In its docks every man drove Mediterranean:
the Greek mainland and islands; Levante the coast of Asia, Spaniards,
Italians, Algerians, Moroccans, Egyptians.

Many kept their original costumes, and this varied clothing joined the
diversity of languages, some mysterious and almost lost. Attracted by
the confusion as oral, the same French forgot their language, speaking
the dialect Marseilles, which retains indelible traces of Greek
origin.

_Mare Nostrum_ traversed the outside ports, the dock of Joliette,
the Lazaretto, gliding slowly through the steps of communication
between groups of pedestrians and cars waiting to restore the bridge
to swivel open the steel bow.

Then went to anchor in the basin Arenc near the _docks_. When Ferragut
had landed, she realized the great transformation of this port during
the
war. The traffic in times of peace there.

The genera were not of an infinite variety, like other times. Only on the
docks piled cargoes, monotonous and uniform, food or materials of war.
They had also disappeared the legions of downloaders.

All were in the trenches. The banks were now swept by women, and
downloads the detachments made shooters Senegalese. Shivered in the cold
of winter and sunny days are dying as hunched in the rain or the breath
of the mistral. Working draft with the red hat on the ears, and
lower their work in high-was poised to put their hands in the pockets
of the binder. These black vocal groups formed around a bale or a piece
that four men had moved in ordinary time, and the passage of a woman
or a vehicle they had neglected the work, turning their faces to hell
with a curious child. Downloading piled in the main harbors the
same items: wheat, long grain and sulfur and saltpeter for the composition
of explosive substances. In other docks were lined with thousands of
pairs of wheels gray canyons and support vans, boxes containing large
airplanes such as housing, the steel used for scaffolding á heavy
artillery, rifles and cartridge boxes, huge packages canned food
and sanitary materials, all supplies of the army fighting in the remote
end of the Mediterranean. Several platoons of men preceded and
followed by bayonets marched from one port to another with rhythmic
step.

They were German prisoners, smiling and cheerful despite the captivity,
still wearing their uniforms of green cabbage, with a round cap
on the head sheared. Went to work inside the vessels, loading
or unloading the material to be used for the extermination of their
fellow countrymen and friends. At the docks, the fumes were extremely
enlarged. Upon arrival just stood on the dock a few meters from the
board, but now that its cargo was piled on the ground, seemed very high
strengths. Two thirds of the hull always hidden in the sea were exposed,
showing the bright red of its belly. Only her keel was kept in water.
The upper third, which was visible on the water line in ordinary time,
was now a simple cornice topped the large black wall purple. The
sticks and fireplaces, bailer by this transformation, to another
vessel appeared smaller. All those fumes and peaceful merchant carrying
a gun at the stern to get rid of the pirates submarines. England and
France had mobilized their _tramps_, boats vagabonds, and started
to give them means of defense. Some were unable to mount the gun on a
cure sets, and took a piece of artillery ground, his mouth hovering
between the wheels nailed on the deck.
The new
pinnace, which had recently been built at Manomet, was immediately
dispatched for the welcome visitors, and he was hospitably entertained
by his new friends for three days; after which the Governor, attended
by Rodolph and some others, returned with him to his vessel, to make
their purchases, and to give in exchange for their European goods, such
furs, and skins, and tobacco, as they had been able to collect in their
general storehouse on 'the Burying Hill.'

From this period, an active trade was carried on between 	the two
settlements, which proved highly advantageous to both--the Dutch
supplying the men of Plymouth with sugar, linen, and other stuffs, in
return for their skins, timber, and tobacco.

During all this time, an almost perfect peace was maintained with the
neighboring Indian tribes; and the friendship that had so early been
established between the English settlers and the Wampanoges became more
confirmed and strengthened. All external matters now wore a far more
prosperous aspect than they had hitherto done; and the Pilgrims felt
that they had both the means and the leisure to add to the comforts of
their social and domestic life. Some years previously, a small portion
of land had been assigned to each family for its own particular use:
but the possession of this land had not been made hereditary; and
although the fact of its being appropriated to one household had
considerably increased the zeal and industry of the cultivators, yet
they still desired that feeling of inalienable property which so
greatly adds to the value of every possession.

To gratify this natural desire, the Governor and his council had deemed
it advisable to depart so far from the terms of the original treaty as
to allot to each colonist an acre of land, as near the town as
possible, in order that, if any danger threatened, they might be able
to unite speedily for the general defense. This arrangement gave much
satisfaction to the settlers; but in the year 1627 they were placed in
a still more comfortable and independent position. They were, by their
charter, lords of all the neighboring land for a circle of more than
one hundred miles. That portion of their territory, therefore, which
was most contiguous to the town, was divided into portions of twenty
acres, five long on the side next the coast, and four broad; and to
each citizen one of these portions was assigned, with the liberty of
purchasing another for his wife, and also one for every child who
resided with him. To every six of these pieces were allotted a cow, two
goats, and a few pigs; so that each settler became possessed of a
little farm of his own, and a small herd of cattle to stock it with:
and peace and plenty at length seemed to smile on the hardy and long-
enduring settlers.

Meanwhile, the colony of Massachusetts, which had been founded in the
year 1624, increased rapidly. It was first planted at Nantasket, a
deserted village of the Indians, at the entrance of the Bay of
Massachusetts, where the Plymouth settlers had previously erected a few
houses, for the convenience of carrying on their trade with the
neighboring tribes.  Another settlement had been formed, two years
later, at Naumkeak, a tongue of land of remarkable fertility, where
also a deserted Indian village was found, which formed the commencement
of the town afterwards called Salem; and which had become--at the
period we have now arrived at in our story--a place of some importance.
It was founded by a man of much zeal end enthusiasm, of the name of
Endicott; who was one of the original possessors of the patent granted
to several gentlemen of Dorsetshire, for the land in Massachusetts Bay,
extending from the Merrimak to the Charles River, from north to south;
but stretching to an indefinite distance westward, even over the
unexplored regions between the boisterous Atlantic, and the ‘Silent
Sea,’ as the Pacific has been very aptly and beautifully designated.

Endicott had been invested, by the society to which he belonged in
England, with the government of the whole district of Massachusetts;
and he soon found himself called on to exercise his authority for the
suppression of the disturbances excited by the settlers of Quincy. This
place was inhabited by a set of low and immoral men, one of whom, named
Thomas Morton, had come over in the wild and dissolute train sent out
by Weston several years previously. He was a man of some talent, but of
very contemptible character: and had attached himself to the retinue of
Captain Wollaston and his companions, who first settled at Quincy, and
gave it the name of Mount Wollaston. He afterwards, with his friends,
removed to Virginia, leaving some of his servants and an overseer to
manage the plantation during his absence. But, no sooner was Morton
relieved of the presence of those who had hitherto kept him in some
restraint, than he roused the servants to a complete mutiny, which
ended in their driving the overseer from the plantation, and indulging
in every kind of excess. They even had the boldness and the dishonesty
to sell the land which had been left in their charge by the lawful
possessors, to the Indians; and to obtain fresh estates, which they
claimed as their own. And, having thus established a sort of lawless
independence, they passed their time in drinking and wild revelry. On
the first of May, they erected a may-pole, in old-English fashion; but,
not contented with celebrating that day of spring-time and flowers with
innocent pastimes, they hung the pole with verses of an immoral and
impious character, and, inviting the ignorant heathen to share in their
festivities, they abandoned themselves to drunkenness and profligacy.

The horror and indignation of the severe Puritans of New Plymouth at
this outbreak of licentiousness, was great indeed. In their eyes almost
every amusement was looked upon as a sin; and the most innocent village
dance round a maypole was regarded as nearly allied to the heathenish
games in honor of the Goddess Flora.  The conduct, therefore, of the
disorderly settlers of Quincy filled them with shame and grief; and
they felt humbled, as well as indignant, when they reflected on the
discredit which such proceedings must necessarily bring on the
Christian profession, and the British name. Nor was this all: it was
not merely discredit that they had to fear. The insane and profligate
conduct of Morton threatened to bring on them eventually, as well as on
all the emigrants, evils of a more personal kind. For, when Morton and
his wild associates found their means of self-gratification again
running short, they had the folly to part with arms and ammunition to
the Indians, and to teach them how to use them; thus giving them the
power of not only resisting the authority of the English, but also of
effectually attacking them whenever any subjects of dispute should
arise between them and the pale-faced invaders.

Most joyfully the natives took advantage of this impolitic weakness;
and so eagerly did they purchase the coveted firearms of their rivals,
that Morton sent to England for a fresh supply of the dangerous
merchandise.  Such conduct was quite sufficient to arouse the fears and
the vigilance of every other colony of New England; and the chief
inhabitants of the various plantations agreed to request the
interference of their brethren of New Plymouth, as being the oldest and
most powerful settlement, in order to bring the offenders to their
senses. Bradford willingly listened to their petition; for he desired
nothing more earnestly than to have an opportunity of openly
manifesting to his countrymen, and to the Indians, how greatly opposed
he and his people were to the proceedings of Morton's gang.  He had
also a very sufficient pretext for such interference, as he could bring
forward the positive command of his sovereign, that no arms of any kind
should be given or sold to the natives.

He resolved, however, before he had recourse to harsher measures, to
try and bring Morton and his wild crew to a better mode of life, by
friendly and persuasive messages. But these only excited the contempt
and derision of the ruffian; and the doughty warrior, Miles Standish,
was therefore dispatched, with a band of his veteran followers, to
seize on the desperadoes. They came upon them when they were in the
midst of their drunken revelry, and, after a fierce struggle, succeeded
in making them all prisoners, and conveying them safely to Plymouth.
From thence Morton was sent, by the first opportunity, to England, to
be tried by the High Council, who, however, did not take any active
measures against him or his followers. Many of the latter escaped, and
continued their disorderly life, until they were checked by the
vigorous proceedings of Endicott, who severely reprimanded them, and
cut down the may-pole which had given rise to so much offence, and he
named the hill on which the notorious plantation was situated, 'Mount
Dagon,' in memory of the profane doings of its inhabitants.

The coast of Massachusetts Bay was now studded with plantations, and
with rising towns and villages. The stream of emigration continued to
increase; and the wealth and prosperity of the colonies in general kept
pace with the addition to their numbers, and with their extended trade
with foreign colonies and with the mother-country. Boston had become a
place of some note, and seemed to be regarded as the seat of commerce
for the Massachusetts district, as well as the center of the civil
government.  Most of the families of the neighboring plantations,
especially of Charlestown, removed to Boston; and ere long it was
deemed expedient to found a regular church there, and the building of a
house of God was commenced. Winthrop, the governor, also exerted
himself in the erection of a fortress, to repel the dreaded attacks of
the Indians; but he soon perceived that this was a needless precaution,
for all the neighboring tribes readily offered their friendship, and
even their submission; and, as the strength of the colony daily
increased, he found that he had less and less to fear from the Indians.
The Sagamore of Sawgus, in the vicinity of Boston, remained the steady
friend of the English until his death; and Chickatabot, Sachem of
Neponset, one of the neighboring Chiefs of the Massachusetts,
frequently visited the rising town of Boston. On one of these occasions
he excited the mirth of the Governor and his suite, by requesting to be
allowed to purchase his fall-dress coat, to which he had taken a great
fancy.

To this strange and original request, the Governor courteously replied
that it was not the custom of the English Sagamores to dispose of their
raiment in that manner; but he consoled the disappointed Chieftain by
sending for his tailor, and ordering him to measure Chickatabot for a
full suit.  This treasure the Sachem carried away with him three days
afterwards, to astonish the eyes of his subjects in his native wilds;
and his loyalty towards the English was greatly strengthened by so
handsome and judicious a present.

Cundincus, also, the Chief of the powerful and much dreaded
Narragansetts, sent his son with a friendly greeting to the new
settlers of Boston; and, in the following year, his nephew and
co-ruler, Miantonomo, came on a visit to the Governor.  He was for some
days an inmate of Winthrop's house; and it is recorded that he not only
conducted himself with the greatest decorum, but that be also sat
patiently to listen to a sermon of an hour and a half's duration, of
which, of course, he scarcely comprehended one word.

Governor Winthrop followed the good example that had already been set
by both Carver and Bradford at New Plymouth, in regard to all dealings
with the natives.  He always maintained their rights with the most
strict and impartial justice; and if any Englishman committed an injury
against the property of an Indian, he compelled him to replace it--in
some cases even to twice the value of the article in question.

The new settlers had always been on very friendly terms with the elder
colony of Plymouth; and visits were frequently exchanged between the
Governors and others of the inhabitants, which, though performed with
much difficulty and even danger, were a source of mutual pleasure to
the two bands of British emigrants.  If the men of Plymouth regarded
with some feeling of jealous anxiety the growing power and greatness of
their rival, it was but natural.  Nevertheless, no differences of any
importance arose between the colonies on the subject of civil
superiority. It was on spiritual matters that they sometimes disagreed;
and on these points the Plymouthers watched the newcomers with
suspicious sensitiveness, and resolved to maintain their dearly-
purchased based rights to religious freedom, against any pretensions
that might be made by the church of Boston.

This latter community was frequently subject to divisions and disputes,
on those points of faith and discipline that each party regarded as
all-important, but on the carrying out of which they could not agree;
and a certain spirit of intolerance had already begun to show itself
among them, which, in later times, ripened into actual cruelty and
persecution.

The first instance of any display of this unchristian spirit with which
our narrative is concerned, was the treatment of a young clergyman,
named Roger Williams, who came over to New England several years after
the emigration of the Pilgrim Fathers, when the renewed oppression of
the Puritan ministers, by the English bishops, drove many of their
number to seek a refuge in America.  In the same year also arrived John
Elliott, a man whose name is deservedly remembered and respected in New
England, as standing conspicuous for zeal and virtue.  So great and so
successful were his labors among the native heathen, and so eminent
were his piety and his self-denying charity, that he has been well
named the _'Prince of Missionaries'_ and 'the Great Apostle of the
Indians.'

The arrival of these holy and zealous--though somewhat eccentric--men,
and of several others equally resolved to maintain the freedom of their
religious views and practices, tended greatly to strengthen and
establish the emigrants; and also added considerably to their comfort,
as every settlement became provided with regular and authorized
ministers of the gospel, and could enjoy all those religious privileges
from which they had been so long debarred. But it must also be
confessed that it became the source of much dissension and party
feeling, and led to that display of bigotry and intolerance that
eventually disgraced the Christian profession of the men of
Massachusetts.[*]

[Footnote: The cruel fate of Mary Dyer, the Quaker, who was condemned
to death by Governor Endicott, at Boston, is a lamentable instance of
the narrow-minded and cruel policy of the rulers of that community.
She was banished from the state, but 'felt a call' to return and rebuke
the austerity of the men of Boston, and reprove them for their
spiritual pride. She was accompanied by two friends, William Robinson
and Marmaduke Stevenson, and all three were seized, imprisoned, and,
after a summary trial, were sent to the gallows. The two men were
executed; but at the moment when Mary Dyer was standing, calm and
resigned, with the rope around her neck, expecting to be launched into
eternity, a reprieve arrived, and the victim was released. But it was
only for a little time. She was again banished; and again returned, as
if to seek her fate. A second trial took place, and she was again
condemned. Her husband, who knew not of her return to Boston until it
was too late, appeared before the magistrates, and pleaded with all the
eloquence of affection and anguish. But he wept and prayed in vain. His
young and lovely wife was led to the scaffold, where she met her fate
with a pious and even cheerful resignation; but her blood has left a
dark stain on the history of the Church of Boston, that no time will
ever efface. This dreadful event occurred about forty years after that
period of which we are now treating.]

Roger Williams was a man comparatively unknown in his own country, but
he was destined to exercise considerable influence in the land of his
adoption, by his peculiar views of religious freedom which went far
beyond those of the generality of his fellow Puritans.  He desired to
extend to others that liberty of conscience which he claimed as his own
privilege, and for the attainment of which he had become a wanderer and
an exile.  But he soon found that many of his countrymen had forgotten
in America the principles of spiritual freedom, for which they had so
nobly contended in England, and were ready to employ against those who
differed from them, the same 'carnal weapons' that had already driven
them from their mother-country. His sufferings were indeed light, in
comparison of those which were afterwards inflicted on the miserable
Quakers by the government of Massachusetts; but still they were hard
for flesh and blood to bear, and galling to a free spirit to receive
from those who boasted of their own love of freedom.

Roger Williams was not more than thirty-two years of age when he
arrived in New England.  He had boldly separated himself from all
communion with the high church of his native country; and, before he
would attach himself to the Church of Boston, he demanded from its
members a similar declaration of independence.  The fathers of the
colony were, however, by no means prepared to take so decided a step,
which would lay them open to the attacks of the English hierarchy; and
although a few years afterwards, when they could do it with less risk
of punishment, they abjured all connection with the Church of England,
yet they dared not at present give any countenance to such individual
boldness as that which Williams had manifested. His uncompromising
principles were, however, in unison with those of the Church of Salem;
and he was invited by that community to be their teacher, as an
assistant to their pastor, Skelton, whose health was then declining.
The rulers of Boston were extremely indignant at this act of
independence on the part of the Salemers; and they addressed to them a
remonstrance, desiring them to take no such steps without the
concurrence of the government of the state of Massachusetts. But the
men of Salem did not withdraw their invitation, which was accepted by
Roger Williams; and in a short time his piety, his eloquence, and the
kind courtesy of his manners, gained for him the esteem and affection
of the whole community.

He was not, however, permitted to remain in peace in his new home. The
suspicion and ill-will of the Boston government followed him to Salem,
and so greatly embittered his life, and interrupted his labors, that he
found it expedient to withdraw to Plymouth, where he found employment
as assistant to the regular pastor, Ralph Smith. His preaching caused
great excitement in New Plymouth, from the fervor of his eloquence, and
the freedom of his opinions, which aroused the sympathy of many of the
Pilgrim Fathers.  Governor Bradford was much interested by the young
and enthusiastic minister; and he described him in his journal as 'a
man full of the fear of God, and of zeal, but very unsettled in
judgement.' Certainly, his opinions were peculiar, and his spirit bold
and defying, to a degree that rather shocked and astonished the sober,
severe, and exclusive men of Plymouth; but his sincere piety caused him
to be respected, even by those who shrank from going such lengths as he
did; and his engaging manners won the affection of all who were
admitted to his intimacy.

One cause of the anger of the rulers of Boston against this energetic
young man was an essay which he wrote and addressed to the Governor of
Plymouth, in which he stated his conviction that 'the King of England
had no right whatever to give away these lands on which they had
settled; but that they belonged exclusively to the natives, and must be
bought in by auction from them.' No one who entertains a sense of
justice will now be disposed to object to this opinion; but it gave
great offence to the government of Boston, and he was summoned before
the general court, to answer to Governor Winthrop for having
promulgated such notions.  He did not, however, attempt to defend them,
but good-humoredly declared that they 	were privately addressed to
Bradford, who, with tin chief men of Plymouth, agreed with him in all
the material points of his essay, and he offend to burn it if it had
given offence at Boston. The subject was then dropped, and Williams
returned to Plymouth, where he continued to reside for a considerable
time.

During that period, he not only gained many friends among the
inhabitants, but he also, by a constant intercourse with the Wampanoges
and other neighboring tribes, obtained a considerable knowledge of
their language and manners, and secured their veneration and love.
This, as we shall have occasion to observe, proved afterwards of the
greatest advantage to him.

But his own restless spirit was not satisfied with quietly discharging
the duties of his office, and enjoying the society of his own
countrymen and their Indian allies. Again he drew upon himself the
wrath of the Boston Church, by openly stating his conviction that no
civil government had a right to punish any individual for a breach of
the Sabbath, or for any offence against either of the four
commandments, or the first table. He maintained that these points
should be left to the conscience alone; or, in the case of those who
had agreed to a church covenant, to the authorities of the church. The
civil magistrates he considered as only empowered to punish such
violations of the law as interfered with the public peace. This
unheard-of heresy against the principles by which the Bostoners were
governed, was received with amazement and indignation: and, although
they could not take any immediate measures to testify their
displeasure, and to punish the offender, yet he thenceforth became the
object of hatred and suspicion to the rulers, and they only waited for
a fitting opportunity of openly manifesting it.

Williams was aware of the feeling entertained towards him by the
government of Massachusetts, but he was not thereby deterred from
expressing his opinions in New Plymouth; and so great was his
attachment to the people of Salem, who had first afforded him a home,
that he would again have ventured thither, had he not been detained by
his new friends. They were both numerous and sincere: and, among them,
none were more attached to him than the Maitland family, who agreed
with him in most of his religious and political opinions, and valued
his society on account of his unaffected piety, and the various powers
and accomplishments of his mind. Possibly, it was the attraction that
Roger Williams found in this family that caused him so long to turn a
deaf ear to the repeated solicitations of his old friends at Salem,
that he would again take up his abode among them. Certainly, it was not
fear of the rulers of Boston that kept his undaunted spirit in a
district over which they had no authority; neither was it altogether
the harmony that subsisted between his views and those of the
hospitable Plymouthers.  On many points they agreed, but not on all;
and those who differed from him feared that his continued residence
among them might excite a party spirit, and mar that peace which had
hitherto reigned in their community.

Still Roger Williams did continue to dwell at New Plymouth; and still
his visits to the house of Maitland became more and more frequent.[*]

[Footnote: A few liberties are taken with the private life of this
interesting character, in order to connect him more closely with the
events of the narrative. But all the incidents which can be regarded as
important are strictly historical, although the date and order of them
may be slightly altered.]


CHAPTER XIX.

My child, my child, thou leav'st me!--I shall hear
The gentle voice no more that blest mine ear
With its first utterance I shall miss the sound
Of thy light step, amidst the flowers around;
And thy soft breathing hymn at twilight's close;
And thy “good night,” at parting for repose!
----Yet blessings with thee go!
Love guard thee, gentlest! and the exile's woe
From thy young heart be far!'	   HEMANS.

At the period when Roger Williams was induced to seek a home among the
Pilgrim Fathers of New Plymouth, Edith Maitland had attained to
womanhood. She was not beautiful, strictly speaking, but she was
possessed of that 'something than beauty dearer,'--that nameless and
indescribable charm that is sometimes seen to surround a person whose
form and features would not satisfy the critical eye of an artist. It
was Edith's character which looked out from her clear hazel eye, and
won the interest and the affection of all who knew her.  Gentle and
affectionate in disposition, but at the same time, firm, enduring, and
fall of energy, she combined the characteristic qualities of both her
parents, and added to them an originality all her own. Her education,
in the common acceptation of the term, had necessarily been both
desultory and imperfect; and yet, under its influence, the mind and
character of Edith had strengthened and matured in no common degree.
Adam now? Light Likewise -? Adam Whether I -? I believe -! Hingefallen
Here I am, I'll tell you. Rigors hingeschlagen light? Adam Yes, rigors.
It may be a bad one. Light When the incident happened because too? Adam
Now, in the moment, because I bed emerge. I had the morning song in
the mouth because I stolpr in the morning already, and anyway I have
the run of the day begin, Renkt Lord my ankle already. And probably the
light left obenein? Adam the left? Light Here, the set? Of Adam!
light Allgerechter! The already difficult the path of sin,
converts? Adam's foot! What? Heavy! Why? The light clubfoot? Adam
clubfoot! A foot, as the other, a lump. Allows light! As your your
right is doing wrong. The right is this - force not boast, And dare
be honest to the raunchy. Oh Adam, what, where one of hinwagt,
follows the other. And what light has the face you so dislocated? Adam
Mir's face? How light? You know nothing like this? Adam, I
must be a liar - because from what? Light How's it looked like Adam Yes,
Gevatterchen. Light Horrible! Adam Explains you clearer. Maltreated
ists Light, A Greul to sehn. A missing piece of the cheek, How big? Not
without scales ichs can appreciate. Adam the devil too!

Light brings up a mirror. Here! Convince yourself! A sheep that, eingehetzt
of dogs, is pushing through thorns, can no longer sit wool as you -
God knows where? - Meat, you can sit. Adam Hm! Yes! 's is true.
Unlieblich it looks. The Nas has also suffered. And light the eye. The
eye is not Adam, gossip. Light egg, here is a blow Querfeld, bloodthirsty,
criminal me God, as if a great servant led him angry. This is the Adam
eye bone .-- Yes, now you see, all I had not even felt. light Yes,
yes! How it works in the fire of battle. Battlegroups Adam! What? -
With the cursed goat Am I challenged oven, if you like. Now white ichs.
Since I lost the balance, and almost drowned in the air to attack me,
Fass' my trousers, which I soaked last night at the base of the furnace
hung. Recapitulative Now 'I understand you, believe me, I gate, then
stick to them, and now tears The Confederation; federal government
now and Hos and me, we fall, And with the chief forehead leaf schmettr
I Preheat the oven out just where a goat The nose on the corner
advance. light laughs. Good , good. Damn Adam! Lighting The first case
of Adam, you made the bed also done. Adam My Seel! - But what I wanted
to say what's new? light Yes, what's new!

The executioner hauls would ichs but soon forgotten. Adam Now? Light
Get ready for an unexpected visit from Utrecht. Adam So? Light The
Lord Gerichtsrat ways; the point. Adam Who ways; the point? Light The
Lord Gerichtsrat Walter ways; the point, from Utrecht. He is in
revision -Travel to the offices, and today he still meets with us. Adam
today! Are you in comfort? Light As I live. He was in Holla at the border
village yesterday, the Justice Has there been revised. A farmer had
to drive to the header already Huisum horse before the cart Schirren.
Adam today, he the Gerichtsrat, since from Utrecht! Revision of wackre
man, himself schiert His sheep, like grimaces hates. Huisum come
after us and kujonieren! light he came up Holla, he also comes up
Huisum. Take you in eight. Adam Oh, go! light I tell you. Adam Goes
to me with your tales, I'll tell you. Light The farmer has even
seen him, for the executioner. Adam Who knows who the villain triefäugige
seen. The guys distinguish a face from a back not if he is bald. Sets
a triangular hat on my tube, Hang him by the coat, two boots anything,
So keep so'n Schubjak him, for whom you want. Wohlan light, so doubt
continue into the devil's name, Till he enters the door here. He Adam,
arise! - Ohn us put a word before it. The light foolishness! As the
previous obs auditor nor the Council juniper, would, it is now Walter
Council, the revised. If the same Council Adam Walter! Go, leave me
satisfied.

The man has sworn his oath of office yes, and exercised, as we, in
accordance with the existing edicts and the commander. Licht Well, I
versichr you, the Gerichtsrat Walter Hollaender unexpectedly appeared
in yesterday Vis'tierte and cash registers, And then suspended judges
and recorders, Why? I do not know ab officio. Adam the devil too?
Did the farmer said? This light and even more - Adam So? If light ihrs
want to know. Because in the morning today are looking the judge, the
man in his house arrest, and found the back of the rub him on rafters
high hang of the roof. Adam says what you think? Hilf light now
comes herbei, Dissolve it off, you rub it, and pours him naked
life ins brings it back.

Adam So? Bring it? Jetzo But light is sealed in his house, and closed
vereidet, It is as if he were already a corpse, And his judgeship is
inherit. Adam egg, executioner, seht! - A dissolute dog wars --
Otherwise, an honest skin, so I live, a guy, which was good together,
But cruel dissolute, I must say. Gerichtsrat If today was in Holla,
So he fell ill, the poor codger that I think. Light And only
this incident, said the farmer who was to blame, that the Gerichtsrat
still not here, taken to lunch but he ohnfehlbar On. Adam to lunch!
Well, gossip! Now friendship.

You know how two hands can be washed. You want to be happy, I know that
judges are the village, And you deserve, by God, as well as a.
But today is not the opportunity to let your Heut nor the chalice pass.
light the village judge, I! What you also think of me? Adam You are
a friend of well-composed speech, And your Cicero have you studied in
spite of a school in Amsterdam. Drückt down your ambition today, you
hear? There are probably more cases are shown where your with
Your art can show you. We two Gevatterleute light! If I continued.
Adam to his time, you know, the great silent Demosthenes. Herein follows
the pattern. And I'm not king of Macedonia, Can I use my way but be
thankful. Moves Light me with your suspicion, I tell you. Did I
ever -? Adam Behold, I, I, for my part, The great Greeks follow me.
It could be from depositions and recent interest also to prepare a
speech: who wanted such periods drehn? Light Well, then!

Adam From such accusations, I am pure, The Executioner hauls! And
everything there is about a Schwank ists, who was born at night, Des
tags vorwitz'gen beam afraid. I know light. Adam My Seel! There is no
reason why a judge, if he is not on the indicative chair sits gravely
Should be like a polar bear. The light I say, too. Adam Well,
then, gossip, follow me a little to the registry; The records
clashes Act I on, because, as the subject of the Tower of Babylon. A
second appearance occurs servant. The former .-- After two maids.
The Serves God help Mr. Judge! The Walter Gerichtsrat Lets reported
his greeting, he will immediately be here. Adam Oh, thou fair heaven!
Holla If he already finished? The Serves Yes, he is already in Huisum.
Hey Adam! Liese!

Grete! Light Quiet, quiet now. Gevatterchen Adam! Light Let Euern Thanks
reported. The servants and tomorrow we travel after Hussahe. Adam
What do I do now? What do I do? He reaches for his clothes. Erste Magd
occurs. Here I am, Lord. Wollt light your trousers attraction? Are you
great? Second maid occurs. Here I am, Herrndorf judges. Take light
rock. Adam looks around. Who? The Gerichtsrat? Light Oh, the maid is.
Bäffchen The Adam! Coat! Collar! Erste Magd Only jacket! Adam What?
- Rock from? Hurtig! Servant to light. Gerichtsrat The Lord will be
here very welcome. We are quite ready, to receive him. Das Adam
tells him the devil too! The judge can excuse Adam. Excuse
light! Adam Entschuld'gen. If he is already on about? The Serves He is
still in the inn. He has ordered the blacksmith, the carriage was broken.
Adam Good. My recommendation! The blacksmith is lazy. I would apologize.
I would almost neck and legs broken, even a look, 's is a spectacle,
as I look, And every purgiert startle me by nature. I would be sick. Be
your light in your senses? - The Lord Gerichtsrat wär very pleasant. -
Will you? Adam To executioner! What light? Adam The devil will fetch
me, ists not as good as if I have a powder! The light is still missing,
that you on the way it is lit. Margaret Adam! he! The sack of bones!
Liese! The two maids Here we are, yes. What do you want? Fort Adam! I
say.

Kuhkäse, ham, butter, sausages, bottles from the registry done! And
quick! - You do not. The other .-- Maulaffe! You, yes! - Gotts lightning,
Margaret! Liese is the Kuhmagd, In the registry! (The first girl
is from.) The second maid Say, can you understand you! Adam foot stop
now, I say -! Fort! creating my wig! march! From the bookcase! Quick!
Pack yourself! (From the second maid.) Light to the servant. It is the
Lord Gerichtsrat, I hope nothing bad on the trip are encountered?
The Serves more now! We are in the sunken overturned. Adam plague!
Geschundner My foot! I get the boots - light egg, you are my heaven!
Overturned, says you? But no further damage -? The Serves Nothing of
importance. The Lord sprained his hand a little. The pole broke. Adam
That he broke his neck! Light Hand sprained! Oh, Lord God! Did the
blacksmith already? The Serves Yes, for the tow bar. What light?
Adam says you, Doctor. What light? The Serves For the drawbar?

Adam Ah, what! For the hand. Adies The Serves her Mr .-- I
think the guys are great. (Ab) Light The blacksmith says I am. Adam give
you your just gossip. Why light? Adam You're embarrassed. What light!
The first maid occurs. Hey Adam! Liese, what hast thou there? Erste
Magd Braunschweiger sausage, Mr.

Richter. Adam are pupillary files. I am Light, embarrassed! Adam will
come back to the registry. Erste Magd The sausages? Adam Sausages!
What! The impact here. Light It was a misunderstanding. The second maid
occurs. As a bookcase, Mr. Judge, I find the wig not. Adam Why not?
Second maid Hm! Because you - Adam now? Second maid yesterday evening
- Glock ELF - Adam now? Werd ichs hear? Second maid Ah, yes You
came, you bethinks without the wig into the house. I Adam, without
the wig? Zweite Magd, in fact. There is the Liesegang who's witnessed.
And your andr is the wig-maker. Adam I would -?

Erste Magd Yes, my fairly, Mr Adam Richter! baldness were you,
as your wiederkamt; your spracht your backwards like you do not know?
The blood you have, I still wash the head. The Adam outrageous! First
girl I do not want to be honest. Adam foot stop, I say, it is not a
real word. Do you have the light Wund since yesterday? Adam No, today.
The wound today and yesterday the wig. I wore it on the white powdered
head, and took her with the hat, to honor, just as I stepped into the
house, accidentally starting. As for the washing, which I do not
know. - Scher thee to Satan, where you hingehörst! in the registry! (
First maid from.) Go, Margaret! godfather clerk will lend me his, my
hätt In the cat this morning Gejungt, the pig!

You would eingesäuet Mir under the bed because I know now. Light The
cat? What? Are you -? Adam As I live. Five young, yellow and black, and
one is white. The black, I want in the Vecht ersäufen. What should I
do? Do you have one? Light in the wig? Adam The devil will fetch me,
I had hung up the wig, on a chair, because I went to bed,
the chair I berühr in the night, she falls - Light is the top cat it
in his mouth - Adam My Seel - Light And bears under the bed and jungt
that. Ins Maul Adam? No - Do not light? How else? The Adam Katz? Oh,
what! Light failure? Or perhaps you? Adam ins Maul! I think I pushed
it with the foot down today, when I saw it. Good lighting, good. Kanaillen
Adam die! The Balzer and young, where a place is. Kichernd Second
maid. Hingehn Should I? Adam Yes, and my greeting At Muhme black robe,
the Küsterin. I send her the wig back unharmed today, you do not
need him to say. Do you understand me? Second maid I'll be ready to
order. (Ab) Third appearance Adam and light. avenges Adam Mir heut
nothing good, gossip light. Why light? Adam It's all about colorful
corner me. Is not Judgment tonight? light, however. The
plaintiffs are faced with the door already. Adam - I am dreaming
', it would have taken me a plaintiff and dragged Indicative chair
before me, and I, I am sitting nevertheless indicative of the chair there
And peels' and hunzt 'and schlingelte me down, And judiziert' neck
into the iron mine.

How light? You yourself? Adam So true, I'm honest. We were both top-to-one,
and flohn, And had in the firs night. Light Now? And the dream,
do you -? Adam The Devil hauls. If the dream is not a joke, Let's, as
it wanted, it works against me in! Läpp'sche Light The fear! Give your
only properly, if the Gerichtsrat currently is, the right parties on
the judges chairs, thus the dream of ausgehunzten judges on other
species is not in compliance. The Fourth appearance Gerichtsrat
Walter occurs. The former. Grüß God you Walter, Judge Adam. Adam Ah,
welcome! Welcome gnäd'ger Lord, in our Huisum! Who could you have a
fair God, who could So happy to visit gewärt'gen. No dream, this
morning Glock eighth yet to be understood that such fortunes could
own. Walter I come a little quickly, I know, and must be on this rice
', states in our service, satisfaction, when my hosts farewell me with
well-fired. now I understand what my greeting concerned, I think the
heart of good, even if I come. The Upper Tribunal in Utrecht to the
administration of justice in the land records improve the poor
side of some seems, And strict instructions from the abuse has to
be expected.

But my business on that rice is A rigorous yet not sehn should I just
do not punish them, And I will not find everything as it should,
I am glad if it is bearable. Adam Verily so noble way of thinking must
be commended. Ew. Grace will be here and there, I doubt not, the
ancient custom in the legal rebuke to know, And when he is in the
Netherlands since the same Emperor Charles the Fifth already exists:
What is in your mind does not invent? The world, our proverb says, is
always wiser, And all the reads, I know the Puffendorf; But Huisum
is a small part of the world, on no more, no less, than can only
be part of the general wisdom come. clarifies the kind of justice
in Huisum on, And convinced you, gnäd'ger Lord, You have still your
spine as soon not be swept, as it is totally you befried'gen; fändet
But you do today in the office already, as you wish, my soul, it
would be a miracle , dark Because they only remember what you want.

Walter, lacking provisions, quite right. Rather, it is too much, you
will need to sift through. Adam Yes, through a large sieve. Much
chaff! Much chaff! Walter This is where the Lord Schreiber? The Light
Scribe light, to grace your services. Pentecost nine years that
I am Justice. Adam brings a chair. If you. Let his Walter. Adam you
	are coming from Holla already. Two small Walter miles - Where you
will know? Adam Where? Ew. Servant of Grace - Light A farmer says'
it just now from the Holla arrived. Walter A farmer? Adam Aufzuwarten.
Walter - Yes! It happened where an unpleasant incident, my heitre The
mood disturbed, the shops will accompany us .-- You will be informed?
Adam were true, Mr. strict? The judge Pfaul Because arrest he received
in his house, the gates of despair hätt surprised he hung on?

And Walter made worse evils. What seemed only chaos, confusion, Now Is
the appearance of embezzlement, The Law, you know no longer spared
.-- How much cash did you? Adam Five, to serve. Like Walter, five?
I stood in the madness - Filled boxes? I stood in the delusion that you
are only four - Adam sorry! With the Rhine-collections-Inundations
Checkout? By Walter Inundations-collections-Checkout! Jetzo But the
Rhine is not inundiert, And the collections do not go thus. - Say it,
you have probably Judgment tonight?

Adam Whether we -? Walter What? light Yes, the first in the week. Scharnstein
Walter And those people that I out on your Flure saw are the -? It
will be Adam - Light The applicants who have already gathered.
Walter Good. That fact is I love their lords. Let these people, if
popular, will appear. I live in the court corridor, I see how he Huisum
in your practice. We take the Registry, after the cash, if this thing
dismissed. Adam As your command .-- The beadle! Hey! Hanfried! Fifth
Magd The second appearance occurs. The former. Zweite Magd greeting
of Mrs. Küsterin, Mr. Richter Adam; So she likes the wig you also -
as Adam? Not? Second maid She says it would be morning sermon today,
the clerk would have even the one on, And his other would be useless,
you should be tonight at the wig-maker. Adam Cursed!

Second maid Once again the clerk ways; the point, but once Will you
his send. Adam On my honor, Mr. gnäd'ger - Walter Whats? Adam A chance,
a cursed, to have both brought me wigs. And now remains for me the
third, which I wanted to hire me: I have baldness the Judgment hold.
Baldness Walter! Adam Yes, the ew'gen God!

As much as I am without the wig My advice to Richteransehn am also
embarrassed. - I will have it on the Vorwerk still trying, whether I may
be the tenant -? Walter Vorwerk On! Can anyone else here in places not
-? Adam No , in fact - Walter The preacher maybe. Adam The preacher?
The - Walter Or schoolmaster. Since Adam Sack Tenth abolished Ew.
Grace, What I am here in the office involved, Can I access both
services are no longer expected. Walter Well, Herrndorf judge? Now?
And the Judgment? Think you should wait until you grow hair?

Adam Yes, if you allowed me to send me over the Vorwerk. Walter - How far
to the Vorwerk ists? Adam egg! A small Halbstündchen. Walter A half
hour, what! And your proposed meeting hours already. Power away! I
have today after Hussahe. Adam power away! yes - Walter egg, so you
powdered the head, where the devil also where your reads the wigs? -
help you as best you can. I hurry. Adam also das The beadle occurs.
Here is the lackey! Adam Can I become a good breakfast sausage from
Brunswick, about a glass of Gdansk - Walter Thank you very much. Ohn
Adam circumstances! Thanks Walter, you hear , habs already enjoyed. If
you, and uses the time, I need it, in my book to me something to remember.
Adam Well, if you so command - Come on, Margaret! Walter - You're
so malicious injured, Mr Adam Richter . Are you enjoy? Adam - Have a
real murder shock this morning when I emerged the bed, done: "Behold,
gnäd'ger Mr. Gerichtsrat a slap in the room out, I believe it would
be to the grave. Walter I'm sorry .-- It is but not further from its
consequences? Adam I do not think so. And even in my duty to
continue to disturb me.

Allows! Walter Go, go! Adam to the beadle. The plaintiffs call you -
march! (Adam, the maid and the beadle from.) Sixth appearance Mrs. Martha,
Eve, Veit and Ruprecht occur .-- Walter and light in the background .
krugzertrümmerndes wife Marthe your rabble, you! you will lose me,
you! Veit Be quiet you, Mrs. Marth! It will decide everything. Mrs
Marthe Oh, yes. Decide. Watch it! The Klugschwätzer! Me the pitcher,
the broken, decide! Who will give me the pitcher geschiednen decide
here will be decided that the pitcher divorced me to remain. For so'n
arbitration ruling Give me the shards geschiednen not. Veit If you
can ride right until you hear, I replaced him. Mrs Marthe me
the pitcher he replaced. If I can ride right first, then replace.
Setz He times the jug out versuch Ers times, Setz Er'n times out
on the ledge! Replace! The pitcher who does not have standing to
bones, for lying or sitting has replaced! Veit you hear! What geifert
you? Can we do more? If your one of us the jug broke, Should you be
compensated. Mrs Marthe I compensated! As if a piece of my Hornvieh talks.
Thinketh he, that the judiciary is a potter? And would the Hochmögenden
associations and the apron, and bear him to the oven, the other could
be the pitcher in what I do, as he suffered. Compensate! Ruprecht He
let it, father. He Folg me. The Dragon! "S is not the zerbrochne pitcher,
which they wurmt, The wedding is to get a hole, with violence And
here she is thinking to mend it.

But I still put a foot on it: I'm Cursed, if I take the wench. The wife
Marthe vain Flaps! The wedding I mend! The wedding, not the patchwork
wire, unzerbrochen, no one from the jug sherds worth. And the hourly
blankgescheuert wedding in front of me, How still the pitcher on the
ledges yesterday, So I shall take it from the grip with the hands And
they schlüg piercing him in the head in two, but not here, I would
scrap the patch, you fix! Ruprecht Eve! Ruprecht Fort, you -! Eve
Liebster Ruprecht! Ruprecht I am out of sight! Eve, I implore
you. Ruprecht The dissolute -! I may not say what. Eve Let me einz'ges
word you secretly - Ruprecht Nothing!
Even the wedding ring
had already begun to be regarded by the Plymouthers as a relic of
Popish corruption and superstition, and was, in many cases, dispensed
with, and some time afterwards formally forbidden.  But on this
occasion it was retained, at the wish of both Edith and her mother; who
were accustomed to regard it as a beautiful, and almost a sacred,
symbol of the purity and the duration of the holy tie of marriage.

On the appointed day, the civil rite was duly and solemnly performed by
the Governor, in the presence of a few chosen friends, among whom none
felt more interest in the future welfare of the young bride than the
venerable William Brewster. Although he was not a regular minister, he
was invited by Rodolph and Helen to offer up a prayer for the temporal
and eternal happiness of their beloved child, and fervently and
eloquently the old man complied with their request: and tears of
affection and anxiety glistened in his eyes as he concluded his prayer,
and added his own heartfelt blessing to that which he had asked from
Heaven.

Elliot then delivered a powerful and impressive address to the young
married couple, on their social and domestic, as well as their
spiritual duties; and a simple, but well-arranged repast at Rodolph's
house completed the ceremonies of the day.

It was about this time that the marriage of Henrich and Oriana was
celebrated in the distant wilderness, where all the outward
circumstances were so different, and where no prescribed forms could be
observed, to render the simple ceremony legal or impressive. And, yet,
surely it was as sacred and as binding to those who then plighted their
faith to each other as if it had been performed with all the rites of
civilized life. The vows of Henrich and his Christian bride were made
in the presence of that God who instituted marriage, and hollowed it;
and they were sanctified by the 'prayer of faith,’ which rises as
freely, and as acceptably, from the wilderness as from the stately
cathedral. Had Edith and her much-loved brother known that their
earthly fate was thus being decided so nearly at the same period, how
would the supplications which they offered for themselves have been
mingled with prayers for the happiness of one another!

A brief sojourn in her much-loved home was allowed to Edith after her
marriage; and then she gladly, but tearfully, left her parents, to
share the fortunes of him who would be more to her than father, or
mother, or brother, or sister, could be. The pinnace that belonged to
the colony was appointed by the Governor to convey Roger and his bride
to Massachusetts Bay, and land them as near as possible to their new
home in Salem; and thus Edith was spared the fatigue and difficulty of
a long and toilsome journey through the woods and the wilderness by
land. She was kindly and joyfully welcomed by her husband's friends and
admirers, who were already disposed to regard her with favor, and who
soon learnt both to love and respect her for her own many amiable and
estimable qualities.


CHAPTER  XX.

'She was a woman of a steadfast mind,
Tender and deep in her excess of love.'

The life of peace and tranquillity which Roger and his young bride
enjoyed in their new home, was not long permitted to be their happy
lot. The apprehensions that had been felt by Edith's anxious parents,
were but too soon realized; and, notwithstanding all the good advice
that he received at Plymouth, and all his own sincere resolutions to
avoid, if possible, all future disputes with the elders or the Boston
Church, Roger Williams again became the object of their persecuting
intolerance.

The fact of his being again invited to Salem to assist the pastor, was
regarded as extremely offensive to the government of Boston: but when
Shelton died very shortly after Roger's arrival, and he was elected to
be the regular minister of the congregation, it was looked upon as a
sinful defiance of lawful authority, and one which demanded exemplary
punishment. An opportunity for this exercise of power soon occurred.
The township of Salem lain claim to a certain disputed piece of land,
and addressed a petition to the government of Massachusetts, in which
they demanded to be put in possession of it.  But in consequence of the
recent act of the community with regard to Roger Williams's election,
the claim was unjustly rejected. The Salemers then, by the advice of
their pastor, wrote to all the other churches in the Bay, and requested
them to unite in a remonstrance to the government. This act was in
perfect accordance with the spirit of the puritanical principles, which
distinctly separated the church from the state; and it ought not,
therefore, to have given offence to any one. But their practice
differed greatly from their theory; and the feeling against Williams
was so strong that all the churches--the elders of which were opposed
to his opinions--now took part with the government of Boston against
him.

This treatment so irritated the warm feelings of Williams, and so
keenly wounded his sense of justice and love of liberty, that he
required the Church of Salem to renounce all connection with the other
congregations; and even went so far as to refuse all intercourse with
his own church until this separation was agreed to. But strongly as the
Salemers were attached to their pastor, they could not consent to so
decisive a measure as he demanded; and, being vexed and dispirited by
the general disapprobation which their conduct had excited in the rest
of the colony, the greatest part of the congregation fell away from
him.

This desertion grieved the heart of the zealous minister but it did not
discourage him, or subdue his determined spirit. He began to hold
spiritual meetings at his own house, which were attended by those
members of the church who fully concurred in his views, and who
considered that he had been treated with injustice.  This proceeding
naturally aroused a strong party spirit in the town, and even
threatened to produce a permanent division in the church, as the
followers of Williams held themselves entirely aloof from the rest of
the congregation.

Deeply did Edith lament this unhappy state of affairs. Her devotion to
her noble-minded husband, and the natural tendency of her own mind, led
her to sympathize entirely in his opinions and feelings; and her strong
sense of right and wrong caused her to condemn the injustice of the
government, and the weak, truckling spirit of the sister-churches. But
her judgement was more calm and dispassionate than that of Roger, and
her temper far less excitable. She therefore saw the impropriety, as
well as the danger, of, causing a schism in the church; and she used
all her powerful influence to induce her husband to give up these
irregular assemblies; and, without compromising his own opinions, to
endeavor to ward off the enmity of the men of Boston.

She earnestly besought him again to leave the Congregation of Salem--
the greater portion of which had already deserted him and his cause--
and to return to Plymouth, where a safe and a happy home might yet be
afforded to them, and where no persecution for conscience' sake, need
be feared. But all her arguments and her persuasions were alike
ineffectual.  On this one point she found her Roger firm and
inflexible--for on this point he felt that his honor and his conscience
were both concerned; and, even for Edith's sake; he could not act
contrary to their dictates. He knew that danger hung over his head;
and, though he would not shrink from it himself, he besought her to
seek a temporary refuge with her parents, and remain at Plymouth until
the threatened storm had blown over. But it was now Edith’s turn to
show herself firm and decided; and so clearly did Roger perceive that
separation would be to her a far greater trial than any other that
could befall her in his company, that he forbore to urge a measure that
it wrung his own heart to propose.

At length the boding storm began to break over his head. For all his
supposed offences he was again summoned before the General Assembly at
Boston; and, in fear and anxiety, Edith saw him depart. She knew full
well that he would never renounce, or even soften down, his opinions,
through any fear of man; and she did not, for a moment, desire that he
should thus lower himself in her estimation and his own. But she also
knew the bitterness of the enmity felt towards him by the authorities
at Boston, and she could not repress her apprehensions of its
consequences.

As she anticipated, Roger refused to acknowledge himself guilty of an
offence against the church or state; nor would he even yield one point
of his religious or political opinions, during a long disputation with
the celebrated pastor Hooker. He was, therefore, declared contumacious
by the government: and, with the assent of all the assembled clergy,
except his friend Elliot, he was banished from the territory of
Massachusetts.

Six weeks were allowed him by the General Assembly to make his
preparations, and remove beyond the boundary of their dominions: but as
this term would have brought the time of his banishment to the winter
season, when such a journey would have been impracticable, he was
afterwards permitted to remain at Salem until the spring.

With great apparent unconcern he returned to his home, where his fond
and admiring wife welcomed him with joy, and strengthened his spirit by
the cheerful manner in which she received the news of their sentence of
banishment. She had felt an undefined dread of something much more hard
to bear--of something which might possibly separate her husband from
her: but banishment _with him_ was only a change of home, and, let
their lot be cast where it might, she could be happy. Indeed, she
entertained a hope that. Roger would consent to remove to Plymouth, and
take up his abode there, which would have, given her extreme
satisfaction. But she soon found that this hope could not be
accomplished; for her enthusiastic husband had formed a design of
founding a church of his own, and of being entirely independent of all
government in spiritual matters. In order to carry out this purpose, he
daringly continued to hold the obnoxious assemblies in his own house,
and to instill his opinions into the minds of the many young and
zealous friends who gathered around him. These meetings were even more
numerously attended after his return from Boston than they were before
he was summoned to the bar of the General Assembly; for persecution and
injustice naturally recoil on the perpetrators of it, and the victim of
such harsh measures is sure to gain friends and supporters among the
warm-hearted and the generous.

A report of these proceedings was carried to Boston, and also a rumor
of Williams's supposed plan for founding an independent church and
settlement in Narragansett Bay. It was even declared that some of  his
friends had already gone off to the south, and were seeking, a fitting
spot on which to commence building.

This information roused the fears, as well as the wrath, of the
government. The eloquence and abilities of Williams were well known to
the rulers, and they dreaded the influence that he would inevitably
exercise over the neighboring churches, if he established himself and
his followers in a district so contiguous to their own. They,
therefore, resolved to employ still more harsh and stringent measures
than had yet been attempted, in order to put a stop to his disorderly
proceedings, and prevent the further dissemination of his opinions. He
was, accordingly, once more summoned to the chief town; and, had he
obeyed the summons, he was to have been forcibly conveyed on board a
vessel then in the harbor, and sent off to England as a rebel and
schismatic, unworthy to dwell in the new settlement.

When the summons arrived at Salem, Roger was ill, having caught a fever
from some members of his flock on whom he had been attending; and he
therefore replied, with truth, that it would endanger his life to
attempt the journey to Boston. His serious indisposition had occasioned
to Edith much anxiety and alarm; but now she was made to feel how often
those events which we regard as misfortunes are really 'blessings in
disguise'; and how frequently our merciful and all-seeing Father
renders them the means of our preservation from far greater evils. It
would be well if the conviction of this blessed truth were constantly
present to our minds. How many anxious cares would it disperse or
soothe, and how many thanksgivings would it call forth.

Edith felt its truth, and its consolation, as she sat by the side of
her husband's couch, and wrote, from his dictation, the reply that
saved him from immediate compliance with the dreaded summons.  Nothing
would have induced Roger to plead illness as an excuse for disobedience
unless it had actually existed: and his fearless spirit would probably
have led him into the snare that was laid for him. Edith knew this
secret danger; for Governor Winthrop, who had seen and admired her on
one of his visits to Plymouth, and who now kindly sympathized in her
feelings, had sent her a private note by the messenger, in which he
warned her of the danger that waited Williams at Boston, and desired
her, by some means, to prevent his appearing before the General
Assembly.  Winthrop highly disapproved of the young minister's bold and
independent conduct; but he shrunk from so cruel an act as was resolved
on by his council. He did not, however, choose to declare his more
lenient judgement; and he adopted the plan of informing Roger's wife of
the fate that was designed for him, and leaving it to her judgement and
affection to take the proper measures to avert it.

It was not until after the departure of the messenger, that Edith told
her husband of Winthrop's kind interference, and showed him his note.
The indignation of Williams at such a flagrant disregard of all common
justice was so great, that Edith feared it would bring on an accession
of the fever. It, however, acted in a perfectly contrary manner.  He
slept well that night, and the following morning declared his intention
of setting off immediately to Boston, and there accusing the General
Assembly of their unlawful intention, and daring them to put it into
execution.

'I will upbraid them with their injustice, and charge them with their
purposed crime!' he exclaimed; and his fine eyes flashed with
excitement, that almost made Edith fear that the fever had affected his
mind. 'I will appeal to God and man against their lawless cruelty,' he
continued; 'and rouse the whole colony to defend my right to liberty of
thought and action.'

Oh, Roger!' cried his wife--and she caught his burning hand, and
pressed it to her throbbing heart--'cease such wild and desperate
words!  Would you drive me to distraction, by thus throwing yourself
into the power of your bitter and relentless enemies? Who in Boston
would stand up to defend your cause? Who could deliver you from the
evil intentions of these cruel men? It is true that the Governor has
shown himself your friend--I should rather say, my friend--by giving me
this secret information; but he would not openly espouse your cause, or
resist the will of the Assembly. Why, then, should you spurn from you
the means of safety that have been so mercifully afforded, and tempt
Providence to leave you to your fate'?

'Edith,' he replied--and the bright flush faded from his cheek, and the
fire in his eye died away, and he sank again upon his couch--'Edith,
you have subdued my spirit; or perhaps,' he added, smiling up in her
face, 'weakness has subdued it. I feel that I have no strength to
accomplish what I desire, and to show my persecutors that liberty of
thought and feeling is my birthright, and that I will never relinquish
the privilege. I must, therefore, submit to the will of One who is
wiser and mightier than I am; and believe me, my Edith,' he continued--
as he saw the tears falling from her gentle eyes--'believe me, I do to
with perfect contentment now. The passion--the sinful passion--that
stirred me so mightily just now, is gone; and I feel the goodness of my
God in holding me back from the rash act I contemplated, and from
rushing upon dangers that I might indeed defy, but could not hope to
conquer. I will be calm, my love; and you shall devise some means for
my escape. I feel assured that still more violent measures will be
adopted by the Assembly to get me into their power; and now that I can
quietly reflect on the consequences of such an event, I am aware that
they would, probably, be our violent and indefinite separation. I could
not bear that, Edith; though I believe that I could bear much to
vindicate my honor.'

How changed was Roger's countenance now! All passion--all excitement--
was gone; and the natural sweetness of his disposition, and tenderness
of his heart, resumed their interrupted influence over his whole manner
and expression. Edith thought she had never either admired or loved him
so much as at this moment, when he had conquered his impetuous
feelings, and yielded his fiery impulse to show a bold resentment of
injury, to her influence and persuasions.

‘Heaven bless you, my own Roger!' she exclaimed, 'and reward your
better resolution, by granting us many future years of united
happiness. But now we must think of the present, and provide for its
emergencies. I see clearly that there is now no safety for you in
Salem, and that a speedy flight can alone ensure your liberty. You have
made a great sacrifice for my sake; and I will also make one for yours.
I will not even ask to fly with you, for I could only be an encumbrance
to you at this inclement season of the year, and my presence here may
be of use to you. My heart rebels while I say it, Roger; but you must
go alone, and use every exertion to reach Plymouth as speedily as
possible. When you are safe beneath my father's roof, then will be time
enough to think of me. I feel no doubt that Governor Bradford will
afford you every assistance in his power; and, probably, will again
allow the vessel that brought us here in brighter days, to convey me
once more to you and to happiness.'

Edith had tried to speak with steadiness and composure; and, so far,
she had succeeded tolerably well. But when she realized to herself the
time that must elapse before she could rejoin her husband, and all the
dangers and privations that might await him in the interval, her
calmness quite gave way, and she burst into tears of uncontrollable
agony.

Roger strove to cheer her, and to point to the happy future that he
trusted was in store for them--if not on earth, yet assuredly in a
better world, where faithful hearts will never know the misery of
parting. But it was not until he had knelt with her in prayer, and had
humbly asked to meet the coming trial, and to be sanctified by it, that
her tears ceased to flow, and a smile of hope and resignation illumined
her interesting countenance.

'I must act now, Roger,' she said, in a cheerful voice, as she rose
from her knees. 'Our time is short; and I must make such arrangements
for your comfort during your journey as are in my power. All other
things that are needful to you I will endeavor to send by sea to
Plymouth; or, if no opportunity occurs during the winter, you must have
patience until I can convey them myself.’

Her voice again trembled; and unbidden tears again rose to her eyes.
But she sought relief in occupation; and on the day after the morrow,
when Roger was to commence his toilsome journey at break of day, his
knapsack was ready, and stored with everything that would be most
requisite to his comfort.

The moment of parting came; but we will not describe it. It was borne
by Edith as a devoted Christian wife can bear anything that is
necessary for the safety and welfare of her husband. But when he was
gone, and her swimming eyes could no longer see his beloved form, or
catch his last signal of farewell, the whole desolation of her own
position burst upon her: and Edith was, for a time, bowed down with
grief. She felt herself alone in the world, and she shrank from seeking
comfort or sympathy from any human being who was then near her. But
friends whom she could not then expect to see were near, and the
wounded heart found a balm and a consolation beyond its hopes.

The very evening after Roger's departure, Edith's spirit was cheered by
the arrival of Elliot and his wife at her now dreary home. O, how she
welcomed them! and how deeply they sympathized in her distress and
anxiety! They had heard of the last summons that had been sent from the
General Assembly; and had hastened to Salem, in spite of the severity
of the weather to offer any assistance or counsel that might be needed
by either Roger or Edith. They rejoiced, with much thankfulness, when
they heard of his having escaped the cruel vengeance of his
adversaries; but their minds were filled with fear and anxiety, when
they reflected on the many perils that he might encounter on his long
journey, and the sufferings from cold, and hunger, and fatigue, that he
must endure in his present debilitated state of health. They did not,
however, add to Edith's anxiety by telling of their own, but exerted
themselves to cheer and rouse her, and lead her to place a perfect
trust in the over-ruling care of Him, without whose permission not even
a sparrow can fall to the ground.

The wisdom of the plan that Edith had persuaded her husband to adopt
was soon but too apparent; for, in a few days, a pinnace arrived at
Salem, bringing an officer and attendants, who were commissioned by the
General Assembly to seize on the offending pastor, and convey him on
board a vessel that was lying at Nantasket, ready for sea. But this
cruel and arbitrary intention was happily frustrated. The officer came
to the dwelling of Williams, and had the mortification of finding that
he had been gone three days; nor could all his threats or persuasions
obtain from any of the inmates the least information concerning his
flight. He also sought out, and strictly interrogated, several of the
inhabitants of Salem, who were known to be the partisans of this
persecuted friend of liberty. But, although they were well acquainted
with his sudden departure and his destination, and some of the younger
men were even preparing to follow him, not one of them betrayed their
respected leader.

The officer therefore returned to Boston, to report the ill-success of
his errand, which excited much wrath and vexation in the members of the
Assembly, but afforded secret satisfaction to the amiable Governor
Winthrop, who had unwillingly submitted to the decision of a large
majority of the government, and who had kindly exerted himself to
rescue from a cruel and unjust fate the man whose only fault consisted
in a determination to think for himself.

Meanwhile, the fugitive was pursuing his slow and difficult way through
the woods and wilds to the south of Salem. But whither should he direct
his steps? Every road out of the district must lead him through the
territory of his foes and persecutors; and he dared not show in any of
the hamlets or villages, where his person and reputation were well
known, lest he should be seized and given up to the magistrates of
Boston.  He, therefore, traveled chiefly by night, guided by the moon
and stars, and lay concealed in some damp covert, or rocky ravine,
during the day. The small stock of provisions that Edith had placed in
his knapsack was soon expended, and for some days he subsisted on the
nuts and berries that still remained on the trees.

At length he felt himself safe from immediate pursuit, and changed his
course suddenly to the east.  He emerged from the shelter of the woods,
and, hurrying across the open plain that skirted the bay, he found
himself at the spot which he desired to reach. This was a little cove
on the shore, surrounded on the land side by rocks, and only capable of
receiving a small boat into its tranquil harbor. As Roger approached
the water's edge, and stepped round the last point of rock that
concealed the inlet, he made a signal, which, to his great joy, was
instantly replied to from within. Day was just dawning over the far
horizon, and a dim twilight shone on the smooth and boundless ocean
that spread to the east. A few light strokes of an oar fell on Roger's
ear, and then he saw the white spray, and the dark form of a boat
emerging from the gloomy cavern that was formed by the overhanging
rocks. In a moment his hand was grasped in that of a friend, and all
his sense of loneliness vanished away.

Seaton entreated him to lose no time in entering the boat, and leaving
the inhospitable shores of Massachusetts; and Williams gladly obeyed
him. The little shallop, which his friends at Salem had secretly
purchased, and sent by one of the most devoted of their number to meet
him at the appointed place, was well supplied with provisions and warm
clothing, which proved a most seasonable relief to Roger; but the most
acceptable part of its contents was a letter from Edith, informing him
of the welcome arrival of their friends, the Elliots, at Salem, and of
the futile efforts of the men of Boston to make him a prisoner. Edith
wrote more cheerfully than she felt; and she spoke of the happy time
when they would be reunited, and of her hopes that it was not far
distant, assuring him that she was willing--and trusted, ere long, to
be able--to follow him to any spot where he might fix his home.

This letter, and the refreshment with which Seaton furnished him,
raised his drooping and exhausted spirits; and, at his friend's
request, he wrapped himself in the large boat-cloak that his provident
wife had sent for him and lay down to enjoy the first calm and
undisturbed repose that had been permitted to him since he left his
beloved home.

Silently and rapidly the little boat glided over the calm surface of
the bay; and, ere long, it was opposite to the harbor of Boston, and
might be espied by some of the vessels lying there, Roger still slept
the deep sleep of exhaustion and security; but Seaton now required his
aid, and reluctantly aroused him to take a second oar, and speed the
shallop past the region of danger. Roger sprang to his feet, and seized
the oar, and the boat darted forward from the impulse of his now fresh
and powerful arm. It passed near several boats belonging to the
Bostoners; but the fugitive drew his large Spanish hat over his brows,
and hid his well-known form and dress beneath the folds of the ample
cloak, and thus escaped detection or observation.

It was his intention to row down the bay as far as New Plymouth, where
he designed to visit Edith's parents and apprise them of all that had
befallen him; and also endeavor to prevail on Bradford to send a
vessel, as soon as the inclemency of the weather had subsided, to bring
his wife to her paternal home. He then proposed to go on with Seaton,
and any of the Plymouthers who would accompany him, and seek a
settlement further to the south, in some part of Narragansett Bay. But
this scheme was not permitted to be carried out.

Towards evening, a fresh breeze sprang up from the east; and before
sun-set it blew so violently, that Roger and his companion had the
greatest difficulty in keeping their little vessel out at sea, and
preventing its being dashed on the coral reefs that girt that 'stern
and rock-bound coast.' Manfully they wrought at the oars; but their
strength was almost exhausted, and no creek or inlet offered them a
secure refuge.  Still they persevered--for it was a struggle for life!
The least remission of their toil would have placed them at the mercy
of the wind, and they must have been driven violently against the
sunken rocks.

At length, when the light of day was failing them, and they began to
give themselves up as lost, the keen eye of Roger espied an opening
through the foam-covered reef; and though it was narrow, and evidently
dangerous, he and Seaton resolved to make a desperate effort to pass
through it, and gain the smooth still waters that they knew must lie
between the rock and the shore.

They breathed a fervent and heart-felt prayer for help from above, and
then commenced the fearful contest. The moment they turned the prow of
their shallop towards the shore, the light and buoyant little vessel
darted forward, impelled by both wind and tide, and mounted like a
seabird on the rolling waves. The dashing spray fell ever it, almost
blinding its crew, and the helm no longer had power to divert its
headlong course.

'Now may He who rules the storm have pity on my Edith!' exclaimed
Roger, as he saw the fail extent of their peril, and not a fear for
himself crossed his steadfast soul. 'May the Lord of the winds and the
waves be our guide and protector, or the next minute will be our last!'

He clasped his hands in prayer, and raised his kindling eye to the
frowning heavens above him. But his eye of faith could look through
those dark clouds, and see a Father's hand of love and mercy governing
and controlling the elements: and his spirit was at peace.

'Now God be praised!' cried Seaton, as he drew a long shivering breath;
and snatching up both the oars, projected them on each side of the boat
to protect it from the rocks that bounded the narrow channel. 'We have
entered the passage; and, with Heaven's help, we shall yet be saved.'

They had, indeed, dashed straight into the opening that divided the
reef, and through which the waves were rushing at a terrific rate; and
their only apparent chance of safety lay in the possibility of guiding
the little bark through the channel, without its being impelled against
the rugged sides. Williams caught one of the oars from his friend, and
both directed their whole strength to this object. There was a brief
interval of breathless suspense; and then the boat struck on a hidden
coral rock. It was but for a moment--another swelling wave lifted it
again, and rolled forward, bearing the little vessel on its summit into
the smooth water that lay, like a narrow lake, between the dangerous
reef and the flat sandy shore.

But the peril was not yet over. The blow-on the rock, though momentary,
had been so violent as to spring a leak in the bottom of the boat; and
through this the water gushed up with fearful rapidity, threatening to
sink it before the shore could be reached. Again the oars were pulled
with the strength of desperation; and again the danger was averted. But
Roger Williams and his friend found themselves on a desert and
uninhabited coast, with a useless vessel, and no means of proceeding to
Plymouth.

Still their lives had been providentially preserved, and they were
deeply grateful to the Divine power which had been exerted for their
rescue. And faith and courage, and bodily strength were their portion
likewise: and they did not despair. They slept long and soundly; and
the following morning, having ascertained that the boat was too
seriously injured to be repaired by any means at their command, they
resolved on abandoning it, and recommenced their journey on foot.

The extreme difficulty of reaching Plymouth by land, and the wide
circuit from the course that he wished ultimately to pursue that must
be traveled in order to reach the settlement of the Pilgrim Fathers,
caused Williams to relinquish that part of his plan, and decide on
striking at once into the forest, and pursuing a south-westerly course
until he should arrive at Narragansett Bay. This would lead him through
the trackless woods, and the dreary wilds, inhabited only by the
barbarous and untutored red men. But from them he hoped to meet with
that hospitality and succor which was denied him by his fellow-
countrymen and fellow-Christians.


CHAPTER XXI.

‘…Alas! to see the strength that clings
Round woman in such hours!…A mournful sight,
Though lovely! an o'erflowing of the springs,
The full springs of affection, deep and bright!
And she, because her life is ever twined
With other lives, and by no stormy wind
May thence be shaken; and because the light
Of tenderness is round her, and her eye
Doth weep such passionate tears--therefore,
She thus endures.'    HEMANS.

Without any guide, Roger and his faithful friend Seaton wandered
through the wilderness. They took from the stranded boat as much of
food and other useful articles as they could carry; but the provision
did not last long, and before they reached any Indian encampment they
were seduced to extreme want and suffering. Their clothes were drenched
by the frequent heavy rain, which so completely saturated the ground
and the dead branches that lay strewed upon it, as often to preclude
all possibility of lighting a fire. Their nights were passed on the
damp ground, or beneath any sheltering rock that they could find and
once a hollow tree afforded them a refuge from the storm that raged
around them, when no other was at hand.

At length, after fourteen weeks of trial and hardship, they reached the
village of Packanokick, where dwelt Masasoyt, the aged Sagamore of the
Wampanoges. During the time that Williams had resided at Plymouth, he
had learnt the language of the natives; and on some of his visits to
the village of Mooanam, he had become acquainted with his father,
Masasoyt, the chief Sachem of the divided tribe. The regard and respect
with which his eloquence and his attractive manners had inspired the
younger Chieftain were fully shared by the Sagamore; and both prince
and people learnt to love and reverence the man who honored their
rights, respected their prejudices, and prayed to his God for their
welfare.

His appearance in the village of Masasoyt was hailed with joy, and
regarded as a privilege by all the inhabitants. The Sachem received
both him and is way-worn companion with kindness and hospitality, and
gave them a chamber in his own lodge; which, if not remarkable either
for cleanliness or comfort, yet seemed a luxurious abode to men who had
passed so many days and nights in the unsheltered depths of the forest.

On the following morning, when food and rest had somewhat restored the
exhausted strength of the travelers, Masasoyt invited Williams to a
private conference, in which he informed him that a serious quarrel had
again arisen between his tribe and that of Cundineus, the Chief of the
Narragansetts; and he entreated him to use all his powerful influence
with the latter to heal the present dissension, and prevent the dispute
from ending in open hostilities. Williams undertook this negotiation
with much satisfaction; for peace-making was not only in accordance
with his feelings, and with the duty of his profession, but he also
desired to secure the favor and protection of the Narragansett Chief,
on the borders of whose dominions he designed to fix his future home.
He, therefore, made no delay in setting out, with a few Indian
attendants, on the proposed expedition and in a few days, returned to
Packanokick with the welcome intelligence that the wrath of Cundincus
was appeased, and that he had listened favorably to the explanation of
his rival Chieftain.

The old Narragansett Chief also was so captivated by the English
stranger, and so won by his peculiar eloquence, that we are told that
'the barbarous heart of the old prince loved him like a son to his
latest breath'; and his nephew and co-ruler, the young Miantonomo, also
regarded him as a friend, and placed in him a perfect confidence.

'Let no one,' thankfully exclaimed Williams in his diary, 'mistrust
Providence--these ravens fed me in the wilderness!'

But inactive repose was neither the wish nor the lot of Roger Williams;
and he earnestly desired to reach the spot where he proposed to found
his new settlement, and prepare a home for his beloved Edith; and from
whence, also, he hoped to be able to send a letter to Salem or to
Plymouth, which might allay the anxious fears that he well knew she had
so long been enduring. Since he had received the letter that Seaton
brought him from his high-minded wife, he had not had any opportunity
of conveying to her the intelligence of his own safety; or of hearing
from her whether her strength and spirits were supported under the
protracted trial of absence and anxiety. He knew, also, that ere this
time he had reason to believe himself a father; and his heart yearned
to be assured of the welfare of his wife and child, and to see them
safely lodged beneath the shelter of his own roof.  It was a source of
extreme consolation to him, under all his feelings of anxiety, to
believe that his Edith had been cheered and supported by the presence
of Dame Elliot and her excellent husband, who, he felt assured, would
not leave her until she could be removed either to Plymouth or to her
husband's new abode: and to their kind care, and the protection of his
heavenly Father, he was contented to leave her, while he used every
effort to procure for her a safe and happy home, in which he could
hope, ere long, to welcome her.

He, therefore, lost no time in concluding a bargain with Masasoyt for a
piece of land in the district called Seacomb[*], not far from the east
arm of Narragansett Bay; and thither he proceeded with Seaton, and
commenced building and planting. From this place, he found means to
convey intelligence, both to Salem and Plymouth, of the safe
termination of his perilous journey, and his intention to fix his
settlement on the piece of ground that he had purchased. His messengers
returned, after a considerable interval, and brought him a letter from
his now joyful wife, which gladdened his heart with the welcome news of
her health and safety; and that also of his little daughter Edith. This
name, she told him, had been given to the infant in accordance with
what she knew to be his wish; and his friend John Elliot--who, with his
wife, had resided chiefly at Salem since his departure--had  performed
the rite of baptism. She further informed him that Governor Bradford,
on hearing of her lonely position, had kindly promised to send a vessel
for her; and, as the severity of winter had already partially subsided,
she was in daily expectation of the arrival of the pinnace, which would
carry her back to the happy home of her youth; and then she hoped the
time would not be long until she could rejoin her husband, and once
more be at peace.

[Footnote: Now Reheboth]

This letter called forth the lively joy and gratitude of Roger, and
animated him to fresh zeal and activity in all his proceedings at
Seacomb.  He was also encouraged greatly by the arrival, at the same
time, of five of his most devoted adherents from Salem, who had no
sooner learnt from his Indian messenger, of his arrival at the place of
his destination, than they determined to accompany the friendly savage
on his return to Seacomb, and assist their friend and teacher in all
his labors for the formation of an independent settlement.

All this visa cheering and satisfactory; but the trials of this
undaunted man were not over yet.  His trusty messenger had brought him
another dispatch, which he had not yet attended to. He now opened it,
and found that it came from the Governor of Plymouth; and contained an
earnest injunction to him to abandon Seacomb, which, he informed him;
was included in their patent, and to remove to the other side of the
river that formed their boundary, where he could be free and
independent, like themselves. 'I accepted his wise counsel as a voice
from God,' wrote Williams: and he' immediately resolved to be guided by
it, and again commence his wanderings.

In a frail Indian canoe, he and his companions rowed up the arm of the
sea, now called the river Seacock. They knew not where to land, or
where again to pitch their tent in the wilderness; but they were soon
guided by the friendly voices of a party of Narragansetts on the
opposite shore. These natives had recognized their friend Williams, and
now shouted out, in broken English, the welcome words, ‘What cheer?'
The sound fell like music on the ears of the desolate exiles; and, in
remembrance of the event, the spot of ground where they first landed on
the Narragansett territory received the name of _‘What Cheer?’_ which
it still retains.  A spring, called _'Williams's Spring,'_ is also
shown by the present inhabitants of this district, in proud and
grateful memory of the spot where the founder of a future free state
first set foot on shore.

The place where the wanderer landed was called by the Indians
Maushasuck; and it was made over to him by the generous Cundincus, as a
free and absolute possession, and also all the land included between
the rivers Pawtucket and Maushasuck.[*] This property he shared equally
with his present comrades, and also with some others who shortly after
joined him from Salem, and made their whole number amount to thirteen.
He did not reserve any advantage to himself, although the land actually
belonged to him alone; but divided it into thirteen equal portions, on
each of which a rude hut was immediately erected.  These were soon
improved, and became a rising village, to which Williams gave the name
of Providence, in grateful remembrance of the Divine guidance and
protection which had brought him at length to 'the haven where he would
be.'

[Footnote: Now called the Providence River.]

He and his associates united themselves into a sort of 'town-
fellowship,' and independent church; and one of the first rules which
they laid down, for their future guidance and government, was that no
one should ever suffer, in that settlement, for conscience' sake.

It was summer when the little village began to be built; and, before
the land could be cleared and prepared for cultivation, the season was
too far advanced to allow any hope of a corn-harvest.  The new settlers
had, therefore, to endure the same poverty and privation that had been
the lot of the earlier planters in New England. They had no means of
obtaining any of the comforts of civilized life, except from Boston or
Plymouth: and as they possessed no vessel besides an Indian canoe, this
was a service of toil and much hazard. Still they did not repine, for
liberty was here their precious portion; and hope for the future
sustained them through the trials of the present time.

But where was Edith?  Where was that true-hearted woman while her
husband was thus struggling with difficulties and privations? She was
where both inclination and duty had led her--by his side; and smiling
at trials that she was permitted to share with him, and to lighten by
her presence.

We must here revert to the time before Edith had been blessed by
receiving intelligence of her husband from Seacomb, and had so
cheerfully replied to the note which he wrote to her on a scrap of
paper torn from his pocket book. In order not to interrupt the history
of Roger's difficulties and their successful issue, we have not yet
narrated the trials that his exemplary wife had endured--and endured
with a resolution and fortitude equal to his own.

When the joyful news of Roger's safety reached Edith at Salem, she was
slowly recovering from a long and dangerous illness, which anxiety and
sorrow had brought on her a few weeks after the birth of her child.
Through all her sufferings of mind end body, Dame Elliot had been her
nurse and her comforter; and she and her husband had sacrificed their
own domestic comfort, and their own humble but cherished home, to
lessen the sorrows of their afflicted friend.

All the consolation that human sympathy and affection could afford to
Edith, was given by these true Christian friends; and all the spiritual
strength that the prayers end exhortations of such a minister as Elliot
could impart to a sorrowing spirit, were received, and gratefully
appreciated, by the object of his solicitude and care.  But when weeks
and months had elapsed, and still no tidings came of the beloved
wanderer, what hope could be given to the desolate heart of Edith   Her
friends had themselves given up all hope of Roger's having survived the
toils end privations of the journey; and how could they bid his wife
cheer up, and look for brighter days, which they believed would never
come? A letter which Edith received from her parents, by the captain of
a fishing-boat from Plymouth, too clearly proved that Williams had
never reached that settlement; and from that day the health and spirits
of his wife visibly declined.  Lady Percy. O, in order of heaven's sake,
regardless of the remains back. There was a time, father, since its
your word Brachet, although far more keen to keep it as IZT. As some
schikte your Blik Percy, your son, my dearest Harry, northward, the
Beystand opposed to him his father should add? but he waited in
vain. Who matters to you then stay at home? In a crucial Zeitpunct, and
since by your Zurükbleiben your honor and your son went lost? What the
Eurig betrift, may they heavenly glory umglänzen! The his standing
above him like the sun in the vault of heaven arzurnen: And the
whole chivalry of England moved Bey his light, in the illustrious
career decent that.

He was the mirror, before the noble youth looked at their shape. He saw
no feet, not his gear imitations, and with the trigger switch, which Bey
him a natural error, was the general accent of the brave, so great was
the desire, similar to Seyn. Not only its theoretical merits of war,
even his language, his career, his way of dressing, his manners,
his affections, his even temper and his sense of humor, were the pattern,
all other wornach are formed, each one schäzte themselves just as much
as he believed similar to Seyn.

And this man, oh! this miracle of a man in him, to no one on the merits
had it reads it alone, with a handful of people, all the violence of
the war-god bearable; verließt it, in circumstances where nothing but
the sound of Hot - Spurs name was able to resist thun - O! never,
never insulted abgeschiednen his mind so much that your word you
keep others better than him!

Let them alone: The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong enough.
Had my favorite Harry only half their number had so würd 'ich
Augenblik this on Hot Spurs Naken hanging style, from Monmouth Grabe
talk to. Northumberland. Uebel possible' you get it, beautiful
daughter, that her actions brought by an old fresh aufreisset wound
again. But I must go, and me against the danger therein, or else they
will keep me even looking for, and find myself less prepared. Lady
Northumberland. Flees to Scotland, to the nobility and the indignant
municipalities their strength a little tried.

Lady Percy . If they have a advantages over the king received, then you
vereiniget with them, and makes the strong stronger. But for all our
sakes, let them advance their forces alone try. That must be your son
thun, you ließ't it happened, it was' I Wittwer, and never werd 'I have
enough life, his memories from my eyes * as long irrigation, until the
memory of my edeln Gemal to the sky grows.

(ed * An allusion to the rosemary, which, because he is a (Cephalicon)
is, in our author's time (Remembrance), souvenirs, was called.)
Northumberland. Come, come, go into it with me and my Gemüth is how
Fluth IZT, if they are to their largest amount hinaufgeschwollen is,
then it stands still, and fliesset neither forward nor back. I
wish sincerely that I had with the Archbishop I agree could hold thousands
of causes me back. I want to decide to go to Scotland, and then wait
until time and circumstances better call my Beytritt.

(They go from.) ([The remaining six Scenes in this lift, make one before,
what the Bey) Soup (Sir John Falstaff in the company of the amiable
There's Tear-Scheet and Mrs. Wirthin the Bears head into East
Cheap proceeded, the Handel between Falstaff and Pistol, the
transformation of the prince in a cellar-boy and the gentle farewell
between There's Tear-Scheet and Falstaff which the middle of his
amusements fortgerissen, contributing to the army to go. There are
Scenes from beer taverns and Bordelhäusern in Ostade taste of life
after gemahlt.

The genius of our author is perhaps in some Maaß so great in them,
as in most of the Scenes Hamlet or Kauffmann of Venice, but the disgusting
immorality of that forbids us to übersezen, and would on any other
things than the theater to London, also prohibit their public
performance.]) The third lift. Erste Scene. (The Palace in London.)
(King Henry in his Nachtrok, and a page to appear.) King Henry. Geh,
Ruff, the Earl of Surrey and Warwik, but they come anyway, tell
them that they read these letters, and the content will want to
consider: Keep up to speed does not occur.

(The page is from.) How many thousands of my poorest Unterthanen sleep
in this hour! O holderFirstNames sleep, nurse wohlthätige of nature,
so hab 'ich dich erschrekt that thou my Auglieder no longer close my
senses no longer sweet forget all worries outweigh want? Why do you
prefer ligst in smoky cribs, on Strohsäken ausgestrekt uncomfortable,
and flies buzzing night in your sleep eingezischet than in the rooms of
the Great parfümirten under golden Thronhimmeln, and symphonies
of the most pleasant eingewiegt?

O why you are lying in the lowest Bey loathsome beds, and reliable is
the royal camp as a sign of a cottage Bey Sturmgloke?

Kanst you, too shaky on the topmost mast of the ship-boy eyes sealed,
and his brain in the cradle of the impetuous tide corresponding
ausgesezt the winds which stir up waves Beyme Schopfheim ergreiffen
their enormous heads bend and anesthetized to Geschrey the slippery
pole to hang ropes - Kanst thou, o partheyischer sleep, the wet
sea-boy in such a rough hours of rest, and they fail in the most
quiet night, Bey devise all means to carry them, a king?

So schlummre then gently glüklicher beggars! The main ligt bad, a bear
Crone. Zweyte Scene. (Warwik and Surrey occur.) Warwik. Uncountable
glükliche morning, Gracious Lord, King Henry. Is it already morning,
Lord?

Warwik. It's been over a clock. King Heinrich. Well then, so I wish you
a good morning - Good, Milord, have you read the letters that I
have schikte?

Warwik. We have, Gracious Lord. King Henry. So you have to see, in which
you verdorbnen our state government body ligt how much his inner
damage increase, and how close the danger to his heart is pressed.

Warwik. The disease is not so dangerous, that this body does not fiebrische
through good diet and a little to his previous medical strength could
be produced; Milord Northumberland will soon cooled Seyn. King Henry.
O heaven, who in the book of fate could read, what changes in the
coming days bring with them as they pave Gebürge, and the solid
land, immovable troz its durability in the lake will melt, or as a
different time of the Oceans felsichte belt is too far for Neptuni
hips is like a change of the other ousted, and the coincidence of
the cup with sweet Glüks soon soon bitterm drink with starch!

O, DISS could be seen glüklichste the young man, if he by that previous
ones and future prospect repugnant hindurchschaute would shut the book,
lay down and die! There are not yet ten years that Richard and Northumberland
as the best friends of each other gave banquets and zwey years later,
they battle against each other. It is hardly eight years that this
Percy the next my heart was that he dealt with the zeal of a brother
for me worked, and his love and his life put under my feet.

He went so far that he Richarde to my face aufkündigte obedience. Was not
one of you dabey? You, cousin Nevil, I think - as Richard,
Northumberland attacked with bitter accusations, with eyes
thränenvollen said these words, which are now to become a Propheceyung:
Northumberland, thou ladder, on which Bolingbroke goes to my throne,
(although at that time , heaven knows, such an intention far away
from me, and in consequence only the circumstances of the State of
the transferee to me Crone nöthigten;) the time will come, he
continued, that thy shameful crimes, like an ulcer Reiff in rotten
pus will escape, and so he continued, this break our friendship and
the circumstances IZT worinn we are, to say beforehand.

Warwik. Human life is his main trains to a mere figure of former times,
the future as ligt embryos in which a wrapped present, and who is
the current and previous ones is observed, though often with great
accuracy predict what further changes the future ungebohrne will
hatch.

In this way, King Richard was with a certain kind of hypothesis vorhersehn
that the mighty Northumberland, who had been unfaithful to him, from the
nemlichen Saame in an even greater scope aufschiessen infidelity
would have no other reason for roots to act, could be as you.

King Henry. Are all these things necessarily inevitable? Now let us also
as necessarily go - It is said that the bishop and Northumberland
seyen fifty thousand men strong. Warwik. That can not Seyn; the rumor
doubled as an echo, the number of feared. Geruhet you to go to bed,
Gracious Lord. Bey my life, the power of the Eu. Majesty against them
already has, is adequate, the victory should be taken.

For your reassurance bring even bigger 'I have certain news that Glendower
is Todt. Eu. Majesty, this fortnight ago found amiss, and this
untimely guards must necessarily increase your indisposition. King
Henry. Euerm Rath I will follow, and we would be only one of these
domestic unrest going on, so we wanted to consider Seyn, dear Lord,
our beschloßnen train to the Promised Land run. (They go from.)
Third Scene.

(Transforms in the Ritter-Siz of the Peace Judge Schallow in
Glocesterschire.) (Schallow and Silence, with mold, shade, wart, weak,
and Bullkalb occur .) Schallow. Come in, come, come, give me
your hand, sir; Seyde her early, early on, indeed! And what lives because
my values as Mrs. Base Silence? Silence. Good morning, dear cousin
Schallow. Schallow. What is my base, eure Bettgesellin? and your pretty
daughter, and mine, my Pathe Elschen? Silence. O the girl is as
black as a coal-blackbird, Vetter Schallow. Schallow. On my word, Sir,
I say it not because it's listening, but my cousin Williams has been
a good student, he is still one of Oxford? Is he not? Silence.

Yes, sir, my bags empfindt want it. Schallow. So you must just make
it that ye shall soon cast into legal scholarship is, I was in former
Clements-Inn, I think it is still of clownish Schallow indoors to say
know. Silence. They called you the funny Schallow, cousin. Schallow.
You called me what they wanted, and I did everything with what we
wanted, my soul! and fresh off of them. It was there, I am, and Little
John from Deut Staffordshire, and black George Bare, and Franz-Peak
Bone and William Squele of Cotes-Wold (in Glocesterschire), four
major Rauffer were not in the entire College, the versichr 'I you;'s
I can tell you we knew where the bona Roba's were, and we always
had the prettiest of them to our services.

Johnny Falstaff (Sir John IZT) was then still a young lad, and page
of Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk. Silence. Is this the Sir John,
cousin of today's soldiers with hieher come? Schallow. It was the Sir
John, just the I erinnre me yet, as it took place before the door of
the Collegii the Schoggan a hole in the head suggested, because he has
only a small crab was hardly so high as I say, and even on days he
nemlichen behind Grays Inn with some Samson Stokfisch a fruit dealer
around that Fezen of them flew. O the foolish things we have! And
when I think how many of my old friends are already Todt! Silence. The
Reyher will also come to us, cousin. Schallow. Certainly, this is
certainly o, true, true, the death is, as the psalmist says, all
surely, all people must die. Do you have a pretty yoke of oxen in
the Stamford market?

Silence. Treu my, cousin, I was not there. Schallow. All people have to
die, so want to! Hey, is also still the old Double in your city? Silence.
He is Todt, Sir. Schallow. Todt is he? You see it, but look, he stretched
a good bow, and he is Todt? He was a good Bogenschüze. John of Gaunt
loved him want to suffer, and bet a lot of money on his head. Todt! He
shot at you zweyhundert and forty steps the Center found that it was
a pleasure watching - What is the almond IZT sheep? Silence. Then they
are, a good sheep like almond IZT seven to eight pounds worth Seyn.
Schallow. So is the old Double Todt! Fourth Scene. (Bardolph and the
small Lakay to the former.) Silence. zween come here by Sir
John Falstaff people think 'me. Schallow. Good morning, my Lord
Werther.

Bardolph. I ask you , who is Schallow Junker, peace judges? Schallow.
Schallow I'm Robert, Sir, a poor country-gentleman in this region,
and one of peace Sr. Majesty judges; worinn can I euern services Seyn?
Bardolph. My Captain, Sir, it is recommended to you, my captain,
Sir John Falstaff, a considerable Edelmann, Beyme heaven! and a brave
officer. Schallow. He recommended that his servant, I know that he is
a man who understands his sword. What lives the good knight?

May I ask how Milady, his Gemalin, befindt? Bardolph. To pardon, sir,
a soldier is better than accommodirt with a woman. Schallow. This is
where want, sir, and rather want to, to, in the That - - Better accommodirt
- it is good, even in the That is, good phrases, sure, and were
always in great Werth, accommodirt - it comes from (accommodo;)
quite well, a fairly good Phrasis. Bardolph. To pardon, sir, I have
heard the word so. Phrases it's called? Beyme element, I do not know
what phrases is, but what this word betrift because I want to argue with
my sword, that it is a good soldatenmässiges word, and a word to
an incomparable services thun kan.

Accommodirt, that is, if one - as it's called - accomodirt, or if
one, it may now Seyn what it wants, what can one think that it accommodire
him, it sees me, it's a great thing about it. Fifth Scene. (Falstaff
to the former.) Schallow. You have absolutely right. Look, here
comes good Sir John. Give me your good hand: give me your good hand
glory: Bey my faith, you can see quite good, quite good for a man of
euern years. Welcome, good Sir John. Falstaff. It pleased me to see
you, my dear Mr.

Robert Schallow: this is Mr. Sure-Card, where me is right - Schallow.
No, Sir John, it is my cousin Silence, My College in the Royal
Commission. Falstaff. My good Lord Silence, it is no longer as cheap
that their peace because there Seyde. Silence. Eu. Glory is welcome.
Falstaff. Hey, this is hot weather, gentlemen, you have me to wakre
half dozen guys seen? Schallow. Sapperment that we have, sir: Will ye
not Sezen?

Falstaff. So let me see if I may ask. Schallow. Where is the sled?
where is the sled? where is the sled? Let's see, let's see,
let's see, so, so, so, So, yes, my Six, Sir Ralph Schimmlich;
herbey they should come, as I aufruffe they should occur as I aufruffe
that they should. Let's see where the light is mold? Schimmlich.
Here, if I may. Schallow. What say you about this because, Sir John?
A good companion grobgliediger; young, strong, and from a good
friendship.

Falstaff. Schimmlich Is your name? Schimmlich. Yes, with your
permission. Falstaff. So it is high time that you need. Schallow. Ha,
ha, ha, an excellent idea, my faith! One thing is mold light when
not needed; incomparably good. A good idea, Sir John, a good idea!
Falstaff. Draws him. Schimmlich. I'm drawn enough for me, I wanted
to go way, my grandmother will love the North have to find someone
that has their stamp household; their brauchtet me not to draw, that's
her know there are people enough to go without me. Falstaff. Go, go,
just quiet, Schimmlich, you must go Schimmlich it is time that you'll
need. Schimmlich . Used? Schallow. Still, boy, quietly, to the page!
you know where you Seyde? Among others, Sir John - Let me see;
Simon shadow. Falstaff. Sapperment that I must have, which is good for
Untersizen he is a pretty cool war hero Seyn.

Schallow. Where's the shade? Shadow. Here, Sir. Falstaff. Schatten,
whose son art thou? shadow. my mother's son, Sir. Falstaff. your
mother's son! That is very likely, and thy father's shadow, but not
of thy father's body, which meets often enough, in That. Schallow.
Gefällt it you, Sir John? Falstaff. Shadow in Summer is a good thun,
writes to him, and we have a lot of shade in the pattern book, they are
always good, the Lüken filled. Schallow. Thomas wart! Falstaff. Where
is he? Warwik. Here, Sir. Falstaff. wart you mean? Warwik. Yes, sir.
Falstaff . You look so pretty ragged out, wart. Schallow. Should I
write him? * (ed * The sense of the answer, what Falstaff this giebt,
situated in the double sense of the word prick, which actually
does the trick, and, like the French word (Piquer) means so much
when someone names a certain service, what one wants to use ,
reward.)

Falstaff. That would be very redundant, and all his Habschaft is on his
Rüken built, and the whole plant is on Stek needles; stecht him even
more. Schallow. Ha, ha, ha, what you did for good ideas Sir! ha ha! you
have to leave you, inside Seyde her a champion, you have to leave you
.-- Franz weakly - **-------------- (ed ** As much as Hr.

Schallow the incursions wizigen admired what Falstaff from the opportunity
of the names and professions of this recrute, so disgusting to catch
them, the Uebersezer, and probably also to the reader.

We bend over so the call of the weakly Franz, Mrs. Schneider's room,
and Peter Bulkalbs, besides other things chilly and Theil completely
unübersezlichem stuff, so in this scene to occur.) Falstaff. Are they
all now? Schallow.

It still has more zween can Ruffer but you need only four out of
here, so come with me here, sir, and take me to the Bey lunch
preferences. Falstaff. Come, I will drink one with you, but until about
noon, I can not stop. I am glad to see you, honestly, I am pleased Mr.
Schallow. Schallow. O Sir John still reminds you of how we spent the
whole night in the windmill in sancte Georgen field beaten? Falstaff.
Nothing more of it, Mr Schallow nothing more of it. Schallow. Ha!
it was a fun night. And lives Hannchen night-work even? Falstaff. It is
still alive, Mr Schallow. Schallow. She could never get away from me.
Falstaff. Never, never, they always said: You can but not without Mr.
Schallow Seyn! Schallow.

Sapperment I was able to legally make the heart hurt you was a (Bona-roba.)
Are their things still good? Falstaff. She is just old, Mr. Schallow,
alt. Schallow. Seyn You must be old, it is true, it kan not unlike old
Seyn, certainly, she is old, they had Robin Night work of the old night
work, eh, I still came Clements Inn. Silence. That was five and fifty
years. Schallow.

Ha, cousin Silence , you should have seen what this knight and I have
seen - Ha, Sir John, hab 'ich nicht recht? Falstaff. We have the night,
sometimes all at the Gloken Thürmer beat belongs. Schallow. We have
to have We, my faith, Sir John, as we have, our slogan was guarding,
hem, boys! - Come on, we want to eat lunch, or what we have seen
for hours! Come, come! Bulkalb. Lieberherr Corporal Bardolph,
Seyde my good friend, here you have its four Harry Ten Shilling Stüke
in French cron. In good Seriously, you see, I just wanted to be hung
like Seyn, sir, as go, but for my Theil, Sir, asks' I have nothing
afterwards, it's just that I do not feel like it, you see, and
for Theil was my halter I just prefer my friends Bey; else, Lord,
I just asked for my Theil not much afterwards.

Bardolph. Okay, just stand on the side. Schimmlich. And dear
Corporal-Captain, my dear old grandmother , Seyde my good friend, if I
am to continue, she has no man who does things her, and she is old and
can no longer continue even comment it to me at forty shilling not
arrive.

Bardolph. Well, well, get ' on the side. weakly. I am nothing bekümmre
drum, a man can only die once, and it must be Seyn died, I will
heartily burned revealed; it is my fate, well and good, if not, it's
not the worse. Nobody is too good to serve his lord, and it may go as
it pleases, who died this year, is Quitt for the next.

Bardolph. That is how a good guy talk. Falstaff. Come, Sir, which
of these people should I have? Schallow. The four that you like
best. Bardolph (Falstaff too quietly.) Sir, a word with you - light
and mold Bulkalb offer three pounds, if you want to leave it frey.
Falstaff. Well, well . Schallow. Now, Sir John, What are the four do
you have? Falstaff. Chooses her for me. Schallow. Now, as then it
sey, Schimmlich, Bulkalb, weakly and shadow. Falstaff. Schimmlich and
Bulkalb - What you betrift, Schimmlich, it remains there until
you run out Seyde, and her Bulkalb, wachßt until you can do, I do not
want from you. Schallow. Sir John, Sir John, it does you even wrongly,
they are precisely the zween considerable, and I wanted you like to know
the best uses.

Falstaff.

Schallow Lord, will you teach me, I think people should choose?
Bekümmre I was about as big as dik or how strong the people are, what
they have broad shoulders, or how her legs are dik? I see on the
heart, Mr. Schallow.

See me this wart here I stand before you, he looks so ragged, he hit
me on it, like a Zinngiessers Hammer, the guy is quick, which I can tell
you. And this barren shingle companion, Shadow, here is a man for me,
this is a man, which the enemy can not be tinkering with, the enemy
could just as easily after the sharpness of a spring designed as
a knife at him, and when it comes to Retirade to thun is how nimbly
it is weak, the wife-cutter rooms, of which Lauffen?

O, give me the unattractive people, and keep those big guys for you.
Give me warts showed shotgun in hand Bardolph --- ------------- This
guy will not resent her things to make.
He left his now comfortable home, and all
the various employments that occupied his time, and travelled
restlessly from place to place, defying the storms and the waves, in a
miserable canoe; and meeting, with an undaunted courage, the assembled
parties of hostile tribes whom he sought, at his own extreme peril, to
bring into alliance with the English. He succeeded in his patriotic
object, and, after along doubtful negotiation, he persuaded the
Narragansetts to refuse the proffered coalition with the Pequodees.
Their young chief, Miantonomo, even went a journey to Boston, where he
was received with distinguished marks of honor and respect, and signed
a treaty which allied him to the settlers against his own countrymen.

And in the center is a golden sun whose rays crushes the salamander to
the pair burned. And the salamander's mouth leaves a film that goes
into the sun and bring this letter: _EN you live and die ardo_. Tiburcio
could not find the subtle and ingenious, but as it was quite frank and
say their opinion without bluntly advised and in full freedom, spoke
to Morsamor of this sort: - Of all that I find pearls. He allowed,
however, make a few remarks, and even daring to advise and amonestarte,
because although novice and younger than you, as I am the agent
and representative of sapientísimo Father Ambrose, for which I
speak.

I declare, therefore, your name, love that these terms are somewhat
puerile and can be harmful. Have you come to it new life by virtue
of science for stunning return to the old and to incur (and forgive those
who qualify) in the same follies and nonsense of your previous
life? You've revamped for major companies that honor and glory to you
and the entire human race and not to fall in love like a fool and a
damsel cogotuda tuned to eventually deviate from them with prudish
disdain when it meets his love and Hart's own adorations receive. If I
like Pythagoras believed that the souls transmigrations and subsequent
reports are different bodies, which fear that going in you, I would
be inclined to suggest that anything good for the advancement that
transmigration of souls.

But he found the natural strength of the place so
much greater than he expected, and also observed that it was so
watchfully guarded by his enemies, that he resolved to pass on to the
harbor in Narragansett Bay; and, after having strengthened his forces
with the warriors promised by Miantonomo, to attack the Pequodees from
thence. A circumstance occurred here that is so characteristic of the
time, and of the manners of the Puritans, that it must not be omitted.
The officers under Mason were dissatisfied with this alteration in the
plan of the campaign, and asserted that the instructions given to the
commander ought to be literally followed. It was, therefore, resolved
to refer the question to the minister, who was directed 'to bring down
by prayer the responsive decision of the Lord.' Stone passed nearly the
whole night in prayer and supplication for wisdom to decide the matter,
and the next morning declared to the officers that the view taken by
their leader was the right one; on which they all submitted without a
murmur.

[Footnote: Now Newhaven]

The Indian reinforcements continued to increase. Miantonomo brought two
hundred warriors, and other allied tribes joined them on their march,
until the number of native auxiliaries amounted to five hundred.  In
these Mason placed little confidence, and would gladly have awaited the
arrival of the forty men from Plymouth, who were already at Providence
on their way to join him. But his men were eager to attack the savages,
and the Indians taunted him with cowardice for desiring to delay the
conflict; and he was forced to advance at once.

The great strength of the Pequodees consisted in two large forts, in
one of which the redoubted Chief, Sassacus, himself commanded. The
other was situated on the banks of the Mystic, an inconsiderable river
that runs parallel to the Connecticut. These Indian forts or castles
consisted of wooden palisades, thirty or forty feet high, generally
erected on an elevated situation, and enclosing a space sufficiently
large to contain a considerable number of wigwams for the aged men--or
whiteheads--and the women and children.

The holy man with the calm seraphic smile that looks beyond the
bubble and vanities of life. - Let it no longer flies. And began the
story of a miracle. Ferragut likened these exaltations the cook
to their lightness clothing at all times.And the
other Indian tribes appeared to hold them in the same estimation; for
when they found that it was Mason's intention to march directly to the
fort on the Mystic, their courage failed completely. They were only
accustomed to the Indian mode of warfare, which consists in secret
attacks and cunning stratagems; and the idea of braving the terrible
Pequodees in their strongholds, overpowered their resolution.  The very
warriors who, only the day before, had boasted of their deeds, now were
crest-fallen, and cried out, 'Sassacus is a God; he is invincible!' and
they deserted in troops, and returned to their own dwellings. Thus the
English found themselves deprived of at least a hundred of their
Narragansett allies. The rest remained with them, as did also the
Mohicans; but their fear of the Pequodees was so great, that Mason could
only employ them as a sort of rear-guard.

Meanwhile, these haughty Indians were exulting in their supposed
security, and indulging in songs and feasting. They believed that the
English were terrified at their strength and reputed numbers, and had
fled from the intended place of landing in Pequod harbor in fear, and
had abandoned their enterprise altogether. They, therefore, amused
themselves with fishing in the bay; and then inviting their allies to
join their revels, they passed the night in vaunting of their own great
actions, and defying the cowardly whites.

We have seen that their assuming arrogance had aroused the jealousy and
hatred of most of the neighboring tribes; but there were still a few
who adhered to their cause, and were willing to unite with them against
the British intruders. Among those, none were more powerful or more
zealous than the Nausetts--that tribe which had so greatly harassed and
annoyed the first settlers at Plymouth, and which still retained the
same feelings of enmity that had then influenced them.  The presence of
Henrich among that portion of the tribe that was governed by Tisquantum
had, indeed, secured to himself the respect and regard of almost the
whole community; but it had not weakened the strong prejudice that
they, as well as the main body of their tribe, entertained against his
race, or lessened their ardent desire to rid the land of the powerful
invaders.

Sassacus was well acquainted with the sentiments of his Nausett allies,
and he had lost no time in securing the co-operation of the Sagamore of
the tribe, as soon as he knew that the British troops were preparing to
attack him, and he had, also, dispatched a swift messenger to meet
Tisquantum and his warriors, and entreat them to use all possible
expedition to join him in his own fortress, and assist in defending it
against his enemies.

With the present position and intended movements of Tisquantum's party,
the Pequodee Chief was perfectly conversant; for there was one in his
castle who was acquainted with the plans of the Nausetts, and had only
left their councils when their camp was pitched on the banks of the
great Missouri.

This individual had reasons of his own, besides his wish to strengthen
his countrymen against the English, for desiring the presence of
Tisquantum's warriors in the approaching contest.  He hoped to place
Henrich in such a position, that he would have no alternative but
either to lead the Nausetts against his own people or to excite their
distrust, and even hatred, by refusing to do so. He expected, and
wished, that he should adopt the latter course; for he knew that he had
himself still many secret adherents in the tribe, who would gladly make
this an excuse for withdrawing their allegiance from the white Sachem,
and bestowing it on him; and thus, at length, the long-sought object of
his restless ambition might he attained. And then--then revenge!--that
burning passion of his soul--might quickly be also satiated!

It was now many months since Coubitant had escaped the punishment that
was due to his many crimes, and had fled from the wrath of Tisquantum.
But he had contrived to keep up an exact knowledge of the movements of
the tribe, and even an intercourse with his own treacherous partisans.
Often, indeed, as the Nausetts traveled slowly across the wide plain
between the Missouri and the Mississippi, that well-known and terrible
eye of fire was fixed upon them from the elevated bough of some thick
tree, or from the overhanging summit of a neighboring rock; and often
at night, when the camp was sunk in the silence of repose, his guilty
confederates crept forth to meet him in some retired spot, and form
plans for the future.

In this way Coubitant dodged the path of the Nausetts while they
traversed the forests and savannas, the lulls and the valleys, that led
them at length to the great lake, now so well known as Lake Superior.
Here they encamped for a considerable time, in order to construct a
sufficient number of canoes to carry the whole party across it and
also, by following the chain of lakes and rivers that intersects that
part of the great continent, and ends in Lake Ontario, to enable them
to land at no very great distance from their own native district.

When the little fleet set out on its long and circuitous voyage,
Coubitant actually contrived to be one of the passengers. His partisans
secured a canoe to themselves; and, pretending that some of their
arrangements were incomplete, they lingered on the shore until the rest
of the boats were nearly out of sight. They then summoned their leader
from his place of concealment, and, giving him a seat in the canoe,
followed at their leisure.  Thus he performed the whole of the voyage;
and when the tribe landed on the eastern shore of Ontario, and
recommenced their wanderings on land, he left their route, and hastened
forward to try and contrive some schemes that could further his own
views.

The news of the war between the English and his old friends, the
Pequodees, soon reached him; and, in an incredibly short time, he
arrived in their country, and joined Sassacus in his fortified village.
It was he who travelled from thence to the head-quarters of the
Nausetts, near Cape Cod, and secured their assistance in the coming
conflict; and then returned in time to send a trusty emissary to meet
Tisquantum, and deliver to him a courteous message from Sassacus.

This message had the desired effect; for Tisquantum called a council of
his braves, and submitted to them the request of their powerful ally,
that they would fight with him against the Narragansetts. The emissary
was instructed to say nothing of the quarrel with the English; for
Coubitant wished to get Henrich into the power of the Pequodees, before
he became aware of the service that was to be required of him; and he
trusted that no intelligence would reach him in the desolate country
through which he and his warriors would have to march.

I serenaré; aquietaré creyéndome me other than he was. Something must,
however, that bitter and poison me this new life and I am persuaded that
the same disdain, the contempt with which all look at me.

Has quickly gone through my soul, but leaving it as if it was painful
trace metal melted, an abhorrent thought. If I had suddenly thrown on
the king disdained presumptuous of me, and he had given violent death,
suddenly I would have left in the dark insignificant that I and ten
thousand voices of Fame had taken my name to the whole world. - is
needed - brought Tiburcio - who despise such ridiculous and constant
concern that you do not case.

The take up has been the main cause of today do not do it. This stems
from concern over lack of vanity and pride. Who yearns to do if I was
not sure of his own worth. Ora and he certainly wants to confirm the
strange and he is credited, either in the bottom of his troubled
conscience is bad, and somewhat foolish, and aims, however, gaining
ground, deceiving the world.

The proud, that you own high estimation of himself, little or nothing
is concerned the estimation of others. If you do not believe it
because she does not understand. And if you believe the whole case to
make it grow by no scruple, in an atom, the importance he attaches.
In antiquity, among the Gentiles, was very common that you have that
concern now. No doubt by a desire to show off and to immortalize and
Eróstrato burned the temple of Diana at Ephesus, there were many who
felt ruined the celebrity loved more than life, and not for love of
freedom and homeland, but by love of vainglory, killed the two kings
or tyrants. The great satirist of Rome as reflected in his poems: _Pocos
are the tyrants and the kings who descended to hell with death calmly
and peacefully and without violence or sangre_.

The religion of Christ has mitigated this celebrity craze. Perhaps some
day that beliefs are less firm, and then moved by the miserable nombradía
actual, or try again perpetrate crimes on the other lifted the men,
even in the gallows. Good is Christian humility, which is entirely
contrary to the vanity agreed with pride straight and healthy. After
exclaiming, with a very eloquent Bishop of Hippo: _ Great thing is man
made in the image and likeness of God! _ Who has to worry about
that at this low earth do you do if you or not?

If our aspiration is to consist in _ser perfect as our Father who
is in cielo_, what added to the sum of the perfectly ordinary worldly
praise and honor?

The good imitator of Christ is undoubtedly very humble, but in relation
to the God who loves and adores. Prostrate before your God is despicable
sinner is vile worm, but the same lofty humiliation you later. The humble
Francis of Assisi rises to heaven, and if we bear witness to the
revelation that had their spiritual children, went to sit in the
splendor and high throne left vacant there Lucifer after his
rebellion.

And my reasoning is not delayed further. Básteme conclude aconsejándote
not make the slightest case you do or you do not heed. The estimate
gives the same without a need to give anyone. Thousand other things
are tangible and intangible assets that are beyond us and outside us
that we must seek and find. Examples of intangible I love.

And you will find who you love. As an example of the material, almost
like figure and compendium of all of them put the money, and that
we have in abundance, thanks to the splendid munificence of Father
Ambrose. Rejoice then, and have broad chest. And Father Ambrose, in
his wisdom, foresight, events will be provided so that soon you
will meet, not as an end, simply because you attend you, but as a
means of realizing other goals.

Tiburcio came here in his peroration singular when left the church a
venerable old man, richly dressed, as a gentleman that was very major.
And standing in front of and looking for Morsamor landmark milestone
with joyful surprise, he said: - You are, sir, a living portrait, I
do not know if your father or your grandfather, whom I knew and tried
and made half a century, but whose image is engraved in my memory with
indelible traits. You should first open, loyal and loving friendship
and later life. My name is Duarte, and am the son of the heroic Pedro
Mendaña, who after the battle of Toro remained so long in the castle
of Castronuño, against all the power of Castile. A brave adventurer
of that nation, whose name was like yours Zuheros Miguel, whose
nickname was also Morsamor war, the castle was my constant companion
in arms.

We often daring raids in the enemy country.
The warriors departed; and Tisquantum's party resumed their journey,
though not so joyously as before their separation from those who were
going to meet danger, and, perhaps, death.

With unremitting speed, the Nausett braves pursued their way, and
reached the land of the Pequodees before the campaign had begun.
Sassacus had, as we have seen, taken up his position in one of his
boasted forts, and he wanted no reinforcements there; for his presence
was regarded by his people as a panoply of strength.  He, therefore,
sent to desire the Nausett detachment to march to Fort Mystic, and
assist the garrison there in defending it against any attack that might
he made.


CHAPTER  XXIII.

'Merciful God! how horrible is night!
…There the shout
Of battle, the barbarian yell, the bray
Of dissonant instruments, the clang of arms,
The shriek of agony, the groan of death,
In one wild uproar and continuous din,
Shake the still air; while overhead, the moon,
Regardless of the stir of this low world,
Holds on her heavenly way.’    MADOC.

Henrich was now called on to perform the part of an Indian leader in an
Indian camp. Besides the regional fortress, and then had quite a few
palaces and Cintra fifths of wealthy and no shortage of inns where
foreigners could stay. Dona-VI-Sol and a few other ladies of the palace
had accompanied the Queen on Cintra. Natural era that had gone there
also Galanes that these ladies served.'s My business to say here
that weighs me for two reasons. It is the first that what I say as
a true story is perhaps undermine, albeit slight, of the high
opinion which must be taken Doña Sol.

And the second is not wise to say, without major detours and periphrasis,
not myself of words or terms for its dissonant anachronism. Everyone
knows what the day means _coquetear_. Another brand new verb is
introduced in our language, verbs do not know if either is the same
share of flirting or if you have a slight different hue, which opposes
the full synonymy. _Flirtear_ The verb is brand new. Let me therefore
that, discarding my moral scruples and language, I dare to state here
that doña Sol was very inclined to flirt or _flirtear_ and had flirted
with Morsamor or _flirteado_ lot. The yearning to be served and worship
is so powerful in women, even the most demure and honest, which moves
them to run and get many compliments on the occasion of serious
challenges and commitments. Surely it was not love which Miguel de
Zuheros that inspired lady: it was only ample and very poetical apostura
estimate of their gallant, elegant, and fun Bizarri treatment. But
to distinguish innocent Morsamor with favor, to attract soft smiles
and faint, fleeting glances and sweet, and display and talked with
him more benign than other men, Doña Sol engriese he did and is judged
reciprocated.
The Pequodees and their allies treated him with respect and honor, as
the representative of their ancient friend Tisquantum; and if his
English blood was known to any of them, they made no remarks on the
subject. They did not dare to notice what such a man as the Nausett
Sachem appeared to be, chose to conceal.

But it is certain that there was one in the fortress of Mystic whose
keen eye had penetrated the disguise, and to whom the features of
Henrich were so familiar, that he could even read his thoughts in his
open and ingenuous countenance.  Coubitant was already in the castle
before the Nausett detachment arrived; and, while he dexterously
contrived to conceal himself from Henrich, he watched him narrowly, and
his eye was on him when he first became aware that English soldiers
were with the foes with whom he must contend. Then did the savage exult
in the painful struggle that he could perceive the news excited in his
rival's breast, and he hoped that the white Sachem would find some
pretext for leaving the fort, and deserting to his own countrymen. He
kept spies continually watching his every movement, with orders to
allow him full liberty to escape, but to follow and secure him before
his purpose could be effected, and bring him in bonds to receive from
Coubitant's own hand the punishment of a coward and a deserter.

But he waited in vain for any such attempt on the part of the young
Sachem. Henrich never left the fortress, and employed himself in
endeavoring to keep his men from sharing in the revelry and wild
security of their countrymen.

In this endeavor he had but little success, and Jyanough alone remained
with his friend, and took no part in the noisy songs and dances that
followed the feast, and con-tinned almost until midnight.

Then a deep and profound stillness gradually succeeded to the barbarous
noises of the wild festival; and long before day-break the exhausted
revellers were all buried in a heavy sleep. Even the watch, whose
business it was to patrol round the fort, had that night carelessly
left their respective stations, and come inside the palisades to light
their pipes. Here they found none awake but the Nausett Sachem and his
friend, who were slowly walking among the weary and sleeping warriors,
attended only by a large and powerful dog. There was another wakeful
eye in the fortress, and that was even now fixed on Henrich. Bat he
whose dark soul looked forth from that singular eye, was himself
concealed from view, and was intently watching the object of his hatred,
and hoping that he would now attempt some act of cowardice or
treachery.

Henrich and Jyanough approached the guard, who had thus thoughtlessly
left their post, and desired them immediately to return to their duty.
But while the men remonstrated on the uselessness of so strictly
keeping a watch, now that no present attack could be expected, they
were startled by the loud and furious barking of Rodolph, who had
wandered to the open gate, and thus gave ominous warning of approaching
danger. Its lightness was only used to see how Ferragut escaped after
mechanical collect his hat. - Ulises! ... ¡Ulises! ... Ulysses was in
the street, while the small _hall_ just dangle, then broke down
on the floor with loud crumbling, several articles of china that
was hooked and moved the fugitive in his blind exit.

Feeling in the opposite feeling of the outdoors, resurfaced in his
memory the dangers he had announced Freya. Explored the street
with a hostile glance ... "Nobody!" His desire was to meet with
the enemies of the woman who spoke to vent the anger I felt against
himself. I was embarrassed and angered by his passing weakness, that
you almost had to resume the old life.

In the days following was agreed several times in the banda of
refugees who followed the Doctor. To find in the streets looking Germanic
bystanders, watching the front through the eyes of a challenge. Would
any of them to kill him ... Then continued forward, repented of his
provocation, were sure that the merchants of South America,
pharmacists or employees of the Bank, undecided between returning
to their homes across the ocean or waiting in Barcelona always immediate
success of their emperor. Al Finally, the captain finally laugh at the
recommendations of Freya. "Bullshit you! ... Interested in inventions
and that leads me. Oh, liar! "One morning when he stepped on the
deck of his steam, Tony approached him with mysterious air. Her
face was, pale ash. When you were in the aft lounge, the latter
spoke in a low voice, looking around him. The night before had fallen
to earth to go to the theater. All the literary tastes of Toni and his
aesthetic emotions are concentrated in the zarzuela. Men of talent had
been unable to invent anything better. It was getting to the humming
behind their long stays on the bridge. In addition, there were the
women's choir, dressed brightly and legs free, the tiples abundant in
meats and light clothing, a parade of pink and voluptuous curves
Mallona glad that the imagination of the sailor, without forgetting
the duties of fidelity.

A one in the morning, when he returned to the ship docks in solitary,
had tried to assassinate him. See people who believed were hiding
behind a pile of goods to hear his footsteps. Then sounded three blasts,
three revolver shots. A bullet whistled one of his ears. - And as I
was not carrying weapons, I ran.

Fortunately, the ship was close, almost close to the bow. I had
to give only a few breaks to get in on the steam iron ... And no more
firing. Ferragut remained silent. He also had pale, but of surprise
and anger. Then the ads were true Freya! ... Did not want to pretend
or show disbelief and reckless disregard of danger when Toni continued
talking. - Beware, Ulises! ...

I've thought a lot about this incident. Shots were not for me. What do
I have enemies? Who may want to harm a poor driver who did not see anyone
... ¡Beware! You might know where it comes from this: you treat
many people. The captain guessed that remembered the adventures of Naples
and shameful proposition that kept a secret, all relating to the
night attack.

But neither his voice nor his eyes justified such suspicions, Ferragut
and preferred not to be aware of what was happening. - Does anyone
know what happened? Toni lifted shoulders. "No one ..." He had gotten
into steam, appeasing the dog on board that bark fiercely. The man
on duty had heard the shots, they were imagining a fight sailors.
Coubitant sank on the ground; and, as he turned to look on his
unexpected assailant, his blood-shot eyes met those of Henrich, and
glared fiercely, first at him, and then at his intended victim, whose
life had been so strangely preserved. They stood side by side,
unconscious of the tie that bound them so closely together. Coubitant
knew it well; and he felt in this awful moment that Mahneto had, in
righteous retribution, sent the son to preserve the father's life from
the hand of him who had hated both alike.  He hated them still: and,
even with his dying breath, he would not reveal the secret that would
have united those seemingly hostile warriors in the embrace of deep
affection.

Rodolph had not seen the friend whose timely aid had partially averted
the deadly blow that had been aimed at him by the savage.  But, on
turning round, he was astonished to perceive that his foe and his
avenger were apparently of the same party. The latter--whose countenance
expressed the deepest indignation, and who was raising his bloody
hatchet from the prostrate form of the wounded Indian--was evidently not
one of the allies of the English; and his dress and ornaments, and air
of dignified command, indicated him to be a Chief among his own people.
Why, then, had he come to the aid of an enemy?

Rodolph gazed inquiringly at the fine countenance of the young Sachem,
which was now bent upon the dying Indian at his feet.

'Coubitant!' he exclaimed in the Nausett tongue, ‘is it, indeed, you
whom I have thus slain unknowingly? You have been a bitter and an
untiring enemy to me; but it was not for this that I smote thee to the
earth. I knew you not. But I saw you aim a cowardly blow at the white
chief; and I saved him. I forgive you now for all your hatred, and all
your evil designs, which Mahneto has thus recompensed upon your own
head.'

'I ask not your forgiveness,' replied the savage in a deep, struggling
voice--for the hand of death was on him, and the dark fire of his eye
was waning out. 'In death, I hate and defy you! And in death I enjoy a
revenge that you know not of.'

He strove to raise his hand in menace, but it fell to the ground; and,
with a groan of suppressed agony, he expired.

The fight was raging with unabated violence, and the conflagration had
already spread to the farthest end of the fortress. Henrich looked
around for his comrades, who were bravely contending with their
powerful foes at some distance, and he hastily prepared to join them.
But, as he turned away, he courteously waved his hand to Rodolph, and
said in the English language, but with an Indian accent,

'Farewell, brave Englishman!'

Rodolph started. That voice had thrilled through his heart when it had
spoken a strange language: but now it struck upon him with a sense of
familiarity that be could not account for, as the Indian Chief was
evidently an utter stranger to him. He returned his parting salutation
and 'farewell'; but still he watched his retreating form, and thought
he distinctly heard him utter the name 'Rodolph!' as a large dog, which
had stood near him during their brief encounter, bounded after him over
foe heaps of slain and dying.

'Surely it was my own fancy that conjured up that name,' thought
Rodolph. The next moment he found himself compelled again to join the
conflict, and, at the head of his little band, to fight his way out of
the fortress, which was rapidly becoming a prey to the devouring
flames. All the English withdrew outside the palisades, and thickly
surrounded the fort; while their Indian allies, who had hitherto kept
aloof, now took courage to approach, and form a second circle outside.
The most furious despair now took possession of the souls of the
devoted Pequodees: and their terrible war-cry was heard resounding
high, and mingled with the agonising yells of the women and children,
and helpless aged men, who were expiring amid the flames. Many of the
warriors climbed the palisades, and leaped down among their foes,
hoping to escape; but they were quickly despatched by the muskets and
bayonets of the English; or if any had power to break through the first
hostile line, they fell beneath the battle-axes of the Mohicans.

Rodolph had received a considerable wound, but it had not entirely
disabled him.  At the head of his men he passed through the open gate
of the fortress, and attempted still to lead and command them. He
found, however that his strength was failing, and that he could no
longer wield his good broad sword. He therefore stood leaning on it,
and watching, with mingled feelings of pity and horror, the progress of
the work of destruction.

Presently he saw a side entrance to the fort thrown suddenly open, and
the form of the Indian Chief--whose tomahawk had saved his life, and
whose voice had awakened such strange feelings--appeared rushing forth.
He was attended by another striking looking warrior, and followed by a
band of determined natives, who were resolved to escape, or sell their
lives dearly.

Rodolph's men, who occupied the position opposite to that gate, raised
their muskets to fire on these brave men; but their commander loudly
and authoritatively bade them desist.

'Hold! I command you!' he exclaimed. 'Let that noble Chieftain escape,
and all his attendants for his sake. He saved my life in the fort; and
death to the man who injures him!

He attempted to rush forward to enforce his orders, but pain and loss
of blond prevented him from moving; and he would have fallen but for
the support of one of his comrades.

Meanwhile, Henrich and Jyanough, and their band of Nausetts, had rushed
through the unopposing ranks of the English, and were now contending
desperately with the Indian line beyond. In the just figured brilliantly
and he wore the same company that we have described. There was another
magnificent feast in the palace. Gil Vicente egregia the poet had
composed an allegorical and mythological order to celebrate the
wedding of the Infanta and wish him every luck in his trip to the
States for her husband.

The car was in the palace with luxury and primarily in the garments
and ornaments of all liars contained therein. None other than Divine
Providence takes the appropriate measures and warned that the navigation
for all of the newly betrothed is prosperous, and dignified
grata. To this end and call it by Jupiter case. Jupiter and then
summoned to meet the gods of the seas and winds and orders and arranges
them so kindly things that infants may reach the port of Villafranca,
healthy, safe and welcoming, as was in effect.

The wonderful and candid order of Gil Vicente is titled _Cortes of
Júpiter_, and was applauded by the audience nobleman. But, amid
the applause, there were ladies and courtiers who whispered utterance
of a subject whose absence is not surprising but did comment on it,
perhaps pious perhaps evil. It was this subject trovador Riveiro
Bernardin, estimated as a new Macías. Everyone knew his courage, his
fervent love for Doña Beatriz. And few believed that she had fallen in
love with that love so pure and passionate. For some it was the
despair of the Bernardin Riveiro going to miss seeing the high purpose
of their worship and their religion. What should ido Riveiro Bernardin
to hide his pain or rather to give free rein in solitude? This questioned
the knights and ladies, though we wondered how deep mystery that
all but knew.

These were a band of more than three hundred
Pequodees, sent by Sassacus to aid the garrison of Fort Mystic.
Happily, they did not discover the small number of the English who were
in a condition to oppose them, and they turned aside, and avoided a
re-encounter. The white men took advantage of this mistake on the part
of their enemies, and hastened forward with all the speed that
circumstances would allow.

But they had not proceeded far when their ears were assailed by the
most discordant yells from the Pequodees. They had reached the scene of
devastation; and, when they beheld the ruined fort, and the ground
strewn with hundreds of mangled corpses and expiring friends, their
fury knew no bounds. They stamped and howled with rage and grief, and
madly tore their hair; while they gave vent to their excited feelings
in that fearful and peculiar yell, at the sound of which the stoutest
hearts might quail. Then, with a wild and desperate effort at revenge,
they rushed down the bill in pursuit of their cruel enemies. The rear-
guard turned, and met the onset bravely. The savages were received with
a shower of bullets, which checked their furious assault; but they hung
on the rear of the English, and harassed them during the whole of their
retreat.  They, however, reached their vessels in safety, and arrived
in triumph at Hartford, from which port they had sailed three weeks
before.

This discomfiture proved a death-blow to the pride and power of the
redoubted Sassacus. Fraile perjuro their votes figured I would throw those
same three sanctuary powerful angels armed with whips and fantastic
mounted on horses, showed the Temple of Jerusalem, so you do not profane,
the wicked Heliodoro, minister of the king of Syria.
Meanwhile, the remainder of the troops from Massachusetts, whom the
Government had not thought it necessary to send with Captain Mason, had
landed at Saybroke, led by Captain Houghton, and attended by Wilson as
their spiritual guide. They arrived just in time to hear of the
successful issue of the campaign; and had, therefore, nothing left for
them to do, except to join a small band from Connecticut, and keep down
or destroy the few Pequodees, or other hostile Indians who still lurked
about the district, and kept the settlers in fear and anxiety. A mere
pitcher. Sets a pitcher, and writes: the office well known. Hingeworfene
light on my presumed Will you, Mr Judge -? Adam Mein Seel, ichs if
you say, So writes ihrs out. Ists not a pitcher, Mrs Marthe? Mrs
Marthe Yes, here the pitcher - Since Adam did ihrs. The wife Marthe
zerbrochne - Adam pedantic concern. Light, I ask you - Adam And who
broke the jug? Certainly the rascal -? Wife Marthe Yes, he, the rascal
there - Adam for himself. I do not need more. Ruprecht That is not
true, Mr. Richter. Adam for themselves. On, the resurrected, you old
Adam! Ruprecht The liar in the neck into it - Adam Schweig, Maulaffe!
You stuck your neck still early enough to iron.

Of
these miserable creatures he sent the wives and children into servitude
at Boston, while he caused the men--thirty-seven in number--to be bound
hand and foot, and carried in a shallop outside the harbor, where they
wore thrown overboard. If this barbarous deed was not committed by the
directions of the _Christian_ Fathers of Massachusetts, yet they
certainly neither disclaimed nor censured it.  Indeed, so little were
cruelty and oppression, when exercised against the red men, regarded as
crimes by many of the settlers, that one of their learned divines, even
of the age succeeding the perpetrations of the above appalling event,
expressed it as his opinion that ‘Heaven had smiled on the English
_hunt’;_ and added, with horrible and disgusting levity, 'that it was
found to be the quickest way _feed the fishes_ with the multitude of
Indian captives!'

