The population of Victoria is 880,000; of Melbourne and suburbs, within a
ten-mile radius, 280,000. During the Exhibition year over 100,000 people
paid a shilling, or more for admission to the Flemington Race Course on
the Melbourne Cup day. The usual number on that occasion is 60,000 to
80,000. I don't know any better way of asserting Australian, and
especially Victorian, supremacy as _the_ racing country _par
excellence_, in comparison with which England, proportionately to her
population and her wealth, must indeed take a back-seat. There is not an
inhabited nook or corner of Australia where an annual meeting is not got
up, and well attended too. The first invasion of the Tyrol, in 1703,
by the Bavarians, was successfully resisted. The Bavarians were
driven, with great loss on their side, out of the country.

A somewhat similar spirit animated the Tyrolese in 1805, and their anger
was solely appeased by the express remonstrances of the Archduke John,
whom the inhabitants of the Austrian Tyrol treated with the veneration
due to a father. They now fell under the dominion of Bavaria, whose
benevolent sovereign, Maximilian Joseph, promised, under the act dated the
14th of January, 1806, "not only strongly to uphold the constitution
of the country and the well-earned rights and privileges of the people,
but also to promote their welfare": but, led astray by his, certainly
noble, enthusiasm for the rescue of his Bavarian subjects from Jesuit
obscurantism, he imagined that similar measures might also be advantageously
taken in the Tyrol, where the mountaineers, true to their ancient
simplicity, were revolted by the severity of the cure, attempted too
by a physician of whose intentions they were mistrustful. Bavaria was
overrun with rich monasteries; the Tyrol, less fertile, possessed merely
a patriarchal clergy, less numerous, more moral and active. There was
no motive for interference.

The conscription that, by converting the idle youth of Bavaria into
disciplined soldiery, was a blessing to the martial-spirited and improvident
population, was impracticable amid the well-trained Tyrolese, and,
although the control exercised by a well-regulated bureaucracy might be
beneficial when viewed in contradistinction with the ancient complicated
system of government and administration of justice during the existence
of the division into petty states and the manifold contradictory privileges,
it was utterly uncalled for in the simple administration of the Tyrol.
For what purpose were mere presumptive ameliorations to be imposed upon
a people thoroughly contented with the laws and customs bequeathed
by their ancestors? The attempt was nevertheless made, and ancient
Bavarian official insolence leagued with French frivolity of the
school of Montgelas to vex the Tyrolese and to violate their most
sacred privileges.

The numerous chapels erected for devotional purposes were thrown down
amid marks of ridicule and scorn; the ignorance and superstition of the
old church was at one blow to yield to modern enlightenment.[1] The
people shudderingly beheld the crucifixes and images of saints, so long
the objects of their deepest veneration, sold to Jews. Notwithstanding
the late assurances of the Bavarian king, the Tyrolean diet was,
moreover, not only dissolved, but the country was deprived of its ancient
name and designated "Southern Bavaria," and the castle of the Tyrol,
that had defied the storms of ages, and whose possessor, according to
a sacred popular legend, had alone a right to claim the homage of the
country, was sold by auction. The national pride of the Tyrolese was
deeply and bitterly wounded, their ancient rights and customs were
arbitrarily infringed, and, instead of the great benefits so recently
promised, eight new taxes were levied, and the tax-gatherers not
infrequently rendered themselves still more obnoxious by their
brutality.

Colonel Dittfurt, who, during the winter of 1809, acted with extreme
inhumanity in the Fleimserthal, where the conscription had excited great
opposition, and who publicly boasted that with his regiment alone
he would keep the whole of the beggarly mountaineers in subjection, drew
upon himself the greatest share of the popular animosity.

Austria, when preparing for war in 1809, could therefore confidently
reckon upon a general rising in the Tyrol. Andrew Hofer, the host of the
Sand at Passeyr (the Sandwirth), went to Vienna, where the revolt
was concerted.[2] A conspiracy was entered into by the whole of the
Tyrolese peasantry.

Sixty thousand men, on a moderate calculation, were intrusted with the
secret, which was sacredly kept, not a single townsman being allowed
to participate in it. Kinkel, the Bavarian general, who was stationed
at Innsbruck and narrowly watched the Tyrol, remained perfectly
unconscious of the mine beneath his feet.

Colonel Wrede, his inferior in command, had been directed to blow up the
important bridges in the Pusterthal at St. Lorenzo, in order to check
the advance of the Austrians, in case of an invasion. Several thousand
French were expected to pass through the Tyrol on their route
from Italy to join the army under Napoleon. No suspicion of the approach
of a popular outbreak existed. On the 9th of April, the signal was suddenly
given; planks bearing little red flags floated down the Inn; on the
10th, the storm burst. Several of the Bavarian sappers sent at daybreak
to blow up the bridges of St. Lorenzo being killed by the bullets of an
invisible foe, the rest took to flight.
Wrede, enraged at the incident, hastened to the spot at the head of two
battalions, supported by a body of cavalry and some field-pieces.
The whole of the Pusterthal had, however, already risen at the summons of
Peter Kemnater, the host of Schabs,[3] in defence of the bridges.
Wrede's artillery was captured by the enraged peasantry and cast,
together with the artillerymen, into the river. Wrede, after suffering
a terrible loss, owing to the skill of the Tyrolean riflemen, who never
missed their aim, was completely put to rout, and, although he fell in
with a body of three thousand French under Brisson on their route from
Italy, resolved, instead of returning to the Pusterthal, to
withdraw with the French to Innsbruck. The passage through the valley
of the Eisack had, however, been already closed against them by
the host of Lechner, and the fine old Roman bridge at Laditsch
been blown up.

In the pass of the Brixen, where the valley closes, the French and
Bavarians suffered immense loss; rocks and trees were rolled on the heads
of the appalled soldiery, numbers of whom were also picked off by the
unerring rifles of the unseen peasantry. Favored by the open ground at
the bridge of Laditsch, they constructed a temporary bridge, across which
they succeeded in forcing their way on the 11th of April.
Hofer had, meanwhile, placed himself, early on the 10th, at the head of
the brave peasantry of Passeyr, Algund, and Meran, and had thrown
himself on the same road, somewhat to the north, near Sterzing,
where a Bavarian battalion was stationed under the command of Colonel
Bärnklau, who, on being attacked by him, on the 11th, retreated to
the Sterzinger Moos, a piece of tableland, where, drawn up in square,
he successfully repulsed every attempt made to dislodge him until
Hofer ordered a wagon, loaded with hay and guided by a girl,[4] to
be pushed forward as a screen, behind which the Tyrolese advancing,
the square was speedily broken and the whole of Bärnklau's troop
was either killed or taken prisoner.

The whole of the lower valley of the Inn had, on the self-same day,
been raised by Joseph Speckbacher, a wealthy peasant of Rinn, the greatest
hero called into existence by this fearful peasant war.

The alarm-bell pealed from every church
tower throughout the country. A Bavarian
troop, at that time engaged in levying
contributions at Axoms as a punishment for
disobedience, hastily fled. The city of Hall
was, on the ensuing night, taken by Speckbacher, who, after lighting
about a hundred watch-fires in a certain quarter, as if about to
make an attack on that side, crept, under cover of the darkness,
to the gate on the opposite side, where, as a common passenger, he
demanded permission to enter, took possession of the opened gate,
and seized the four hundred Bavarians stationed in the city.

On the 12th, he appeared before Innsbruck. Kinkel was astounded at the
audacity of the peasants, whom Dittfurt glowed with impatience to punish.
But the people, shouting "Vivat Franzl! Down with the Bavarians!" again
rushed upon the guns and turned them upon the Bavarians, who were,
moreover, exposed to a murderous fire poured upon them from the
windows and towers by the citizens, who had risen in favor of the
peasantry.

The people of the upper valley of the Inn, headed by Major Teimer, also
poured to the scene of carnage. Dittfurt performed prodigies of valor, but
every effort was vain. Scornfully refusing to yield to the _canaille_,
he continued, although struck by two bullets, to fight with undaunted
courage, when a third stretched him on the ground; again he started
up and furiously defended himself until a fourth struck him in the head.
He died four days afterward in a state of wild delirium, cursing and
swearing. Kinkel and the whole of the Bavarian infantry yielded themselves
prisoners. The cavalry attempted to escape, but were dismounted with
pitchforks by the peasantry, and the remainder were taken prisoners
before Hall.

Wrede and Brisson, meanwhile, crossed the Brenner. At Sterzing, every trace
of the recent conflict had been carefully obliterated, and Wrede vainly
inquired the fate of Bärnklau. He entered the narrow pass, and Hofer's
riflemen spread death and confusion among his ranks. The strength of the
allied column, nevertheless, enabled it to force its way through, and
it reached Innsbruck, where, completely surrounded by the Tyrolese, it,
in a few minutes, lost several hundred men, and, in order to
escape utter destruction, laid down its arms. The Tyrolese entered Innsbruck
in triumph, preceded by the military band belonging to the enemy,
which was compelled to play, followed by Teimer and Brisson in
an open carriage, and with the rest of their prisoners guarded
between their ranks.

Their captives consisted of two generals, ten staff-officers, above
a hundred other officers, eight thousand infantry, and a thousand
cavalry. Throughout the Tyrol, the arms of Bavaria were cast to the
ground and all the Bavarian authorities were removed from office. The
prisoners were, nevertheless, treated with the greatest humanity, the
only instance to the contrary being that of a tax-gatherer, who,
having once boasted that he would grind the Tyrolese down until
they gladly ate hay, was, in revenge, compelled to swallow a bushel of
hay for his dinner.

It was not until after these brilliant achievements on the part
of the Tyrolese that Lieutenant Field-Marshal von Chasteler, a Dutchman,
and the Baron von Hormayr, the imperial civil intendant, entered Innsbruck
with several thousand Austrians, and that Hormayr assumed the reins
of government. Two thousand French, under General Lemoine, attempted
to make an inroad from Trent, but were repulsed by Hofer and his ally,
Colonel Count Leiningen, who had been sent to his aid by Chasteler.
The advance of a still stronger force of the enemy under Baraguay d'Hilliers
a second time against Botzen called Chasteler in person into the field,
and the French, after a smart engagement near Volano, where the
Herculean Passeyrers carried the artillery on their shoulders, were forced
to retreat. It was on this occasion that Leiningen, who had hastily pushed
too far forward, was rescued from captivity by Hofer.[5] The Vorarlberg
had, meanwhile, also been raised by Teimer. A Dr. Schneider placed himself
at the head of the insurgents, whose forces already extended in
this direction as far as Lindau, Kempten, and Memmingen.

Napoleon's success, at this conjuncture, at Ratisbon, enabled him to despatch
a division of his army into the Tyrol to quell the insurrection that had
broken out to his rear. Wrede, who had been quickly exchanged and set
at liberty, speedily found himself at the head of a small Bavarian force,
and succeeded in driving the Austrians under Jellachich, after an
obstinate and bloody resistance, out of Salzburg, on the 29th of April.
Jellachich withdrew to the pass of Lueg for the purpose of placing himself
in communication with the Archduke John, who was on his way from Italy.
An attack made upon this position by the Bavarians being repulsed,
Napoleon despatched Marshal Lefebvre, duke of Dantzig, from Salzburg
with a considerable force to their assistance. Lefebvre spoke German, was
a rough soldier, treated the peasants as robbers instead of legitimate
foes, shot every leader who fell into his hands, and gave his soldiery
license to commit every description of outrage on the villagers. The
greater part of the Tyrolese occupying the pass of Strub having
quitted their post on Ascension Day in order to attend divine service,
the rest were, after a gallant resistance, overpowered and mercilessly
butchered.
Chasteler, anxious to repair his late negligence, advanced against the
Bavarians in the open valley of the Inn and was overwhelmed by superior
numbers at Wörgl. Speckbacher, followed by his peasantry, again made
head against the enemy, whom, notwithstanding the destruction
caused in his ranks by their rapid and well-directed fire, he twice
drove out of Schwatz.

The Bavarians, nevertheless, succeeded in forcing an entrance into
the town, which they set on fire after butchering all the inhabitants,
hundreds of whom were hanged to the trees or had their hands nailed
to their heads. These cruelties were not, even in a single instance,
imitated by the Tyrolese. The proposal to send their numerous Bavarian
prisoners home maimed of one ear, as a mode of recognition in case
they should again serve against the Tyrol, was rejected by Hofer. The
unrelenting rage of the Bavarians was solely roused by the unsparing
ridicule of the Tyrolese, by whom they were nicknamed, on account
of the general burliness of their figures and their fondness for beer,
Bavarian hogs, and who, the moment they came within hearing, would
call out to them, as to a herd of pigs, "Tschu, Tschu, Tschu--Natsch,
Natsch." The Bavarians, intoxicated with success, advanced further
up the country, surrounded the village of Vomp, set it on fire amid the
sound of kettledrums and hautboys, and shot the inhabitants as they
attempted to escape from the burning houses. Chasteler and Hormayr were,
during this robber-campaign, as it was termed by the French, proscribed
as _chefs de brigands_ by Napoleon. Count Tannenberg, the descendant
of the oldest of the baronial families in the Tyrol, a blind and
venerable man, who was also taken prisoner _en route_, replied with dignity
to the censure heaped upon him by Wrede, and at Munich defended
his country's cause before the king.[6] The officers, whom he had
treated with extreme politeness, rose from his hospitable board to set
fire to his castle over his head. The Scharnitz was yielded, and the
Bavarians under Arco penetrated also on that side into the country.

--Jellachich, upon this, retired upon Carinthia, and was followed through
the Pusterthal by Chasteler, who dreaded being cut off. The peasants,
incredulous of their abandonment by Austria, implored, entreated
him to remain, to which, for the sake of freeing himself from their
importunities, he at length consented, but they had no sooner
dispersed in order to summon the people again to the conflict than he
retired. Hofer, on returning to the spot, merely finding a small body
of troops under the command of General Buol, who had received orders to
bring up the rear, threw himself in despair on a bed. Eisenstecken, his
companion and adjutant, however, instantly declared that the departure
of the soldiers must, at all hazards, be prevented. The officers signed a
paper by which they bound themselves, even though contrary to the
express orders of the general, to remain. Buol, upon this, yielded and
remained, but, during the fearful battle that ensued, remained in the
post-house on the Brenner, inactively watching the conflict, which
terminated in the triumph of the peasantry. Hormayr completely
absconded and attempted to escape into Switzerland.

Innsbruck was surrendered by Teimer to the French, on the 19th of May.
Napoleon's defeat, about this time, at Aspern having however compelled
Lefebvre to return hastily to the Danube, leaving merely a part of
the Bavarians with General Deroy in Innsbruck, the Tyrolese instantly
seized the opportunity, and Hofer, Eisenstecken, and the gallant
Speckbacher boldly assembled the whole of the peasantry on the
mountain of Isel.

Peter Thalguter led the brave and gigantic men of Algund. Haspinger,
the Capuchin, nicknamed Redbeard, appeared on this occasion for the first
time in the guise of a commander and displayed considerable military talent.
An incessant struggle was carried on from the 25th to the 29th of May.[7]
Deroy, repulsed from the mountain of Isel with a loss of almost three
thousand men, simulated an intention to capitulate, and withdrew
unheard during the night by muffling the horses' hoofs and the
wheels of the artillery carriages and enjoining silence under pain
of death.

So long as her work is done for the day,
and provided that she does not go to so many balls as to interfere with
her capacity for doing her work, I cannot see what impropriety there is
in Biddy going to her ball. No doubt she enjoys dancing, and how can it
do her any more harm than her young mistress? With all the universal love
of dancing, which permeates even the strictest Puritans amongst the young
colonials, there is very little good dancing to be met with. People out
here do not attach much importance to what are called 'accomplishments.'
To dance is pleasant, but it would be a waste of time to take trouble to
learn to dance well.

A mining population is always a gambling one and a card-playing one. In
Adelaide the old Puritan element still sets its face as steadily as it
can against cards as the devil's playthings; but young Australia will not
put up with any such prejudices. Of course the mining townships are the
centre of gambling with cards; but the passion extends sufficiently
widely to do a good deal of harm. 'Euchre' is the favourite game, then
'Nap' and 'Loo;' but it would not be fair to call the Australians a
card-gambling people in comparison with the Californians.

NEWSPAPERS.

This is essentially the land of newspapers. The colonist is by nature an
inquisitive animal, who likes to know what is going on around him. The
young colonial has inherited this proclivity. Excepting the Bible,
Shakespeare, and Macaulay's 'Essays,' the only literature within the
bushman's reach are newspapers. The townsman deems them equally essential
to his well-being. Nearly everybody can read, and nearly everybody has
leisure to do so. Again, the proportion of the population who can afford
to purchase and subscribe to newspapers is ten times as large as in
England; hence the number of sheets issued is comparatively much greater.
Every country township has its weekly or bi-weekly organ. In Victoria
alone there are over 200 different sheets published. Nor is the quality
inferior to the quantity. On the contrary, if there is one institution of
which Australians have reason to be proud, it is their newspaper press.

Almost without exception it is thoroughly respectable and well-conducted.
From the leading metropolitan journals to the smallest provincial sheets,
the tone is healthy, the news trustworthy. The style is purely English,
without a touch of Americanism. Reports are fairly given; telegrams are
rarely invented; sensation is not sought after; criticisms, if not very
deep, are at least impartial, and written according to the critic's
lights. Neither directly nor indirectly does anybody even think of
attempting to bribe either conductors of journals or their reporters; the
whole press is before everything, honest. Although virulence in politics
is frequent, scurrility is confined to a very few sheets. The enterprise
displayed in obtaining telegraphic intelligence and special reports on
the questions of the day, whether Australian or European, is wonderful,
considering the small population. In literary ability the public have
nothing to complain of.

Melbourne attracts to itself most of the able and clever men in
literature and journalism There is a pleasant press club there called the
'Yorick,' which forms a sort of literary focus; and for one clever,
writer whom you find in the other colonies put together, there are two in
Melbourne. It is the only Australian city which can claim to have
anything approaching to a literary centre. It is no wonder, then, that
the _Argus_ is the best daily paper published, out of England. There
are people who assert that it is only second to the _Times_; but
without going so far as this, there is ample room for surprise on the
part of the stranger, and pride on that of the Australian, that so
excellent a paper can be produced amidst so small a population, and under
so great difficulties of distance from the centres of news and
civilization. The _Argus_ will compare favourably with the _Manchester
Guardian_, _Leeds Mercury_, or any other of the best provincial
journals. In many respects it will be found superior to them; but
although the amount of reading matter it contains is often larger than in
the _Standard_ or _Daily News_, it cannot reasonably claim comparison
with them. The leading articles are able, though often virulent; the news
of the day well arranged and given in a concise, business-like manner;
the telegrams--European, intercolonial, and provincial--are full, the
expenditure in this department being very large. Literary articles are
more numerous than in the London dailies, and are generally well
executed. The theatrical critiques, though the best in Australia, are
somewhat poor. The reports of parliamentary proceedings, public meetings,
etc., are exceedingly full and very intelligently given, and their
relative importance is well estimated. Throughout, the paper is admirably
proportioned and well edited, the paragraphs being much more carefully
written than in any London paper except the _Times_. There is rarely a
slipshod sentence to be found in any part of the paper, which is the more
remarkable as slipshod writing is a noticeable characteristic of almost
every other colonial paper. The leading articles are for the most part
supplied by contributors not on the permanent staff, two university
professors being amongst the best known. They also write reviews and
literary articles, though the doyen in that department is Mr. James
Smith, to whom the _Argus_ pays a retaining fee of £500 a year. Art
criticism is also in Mr. Smith's hands; and although all his work is
essentially bookish and wanting in originality, he thoroughly understands
his subjects, and his style and language are excellent.

The paper and type used by the _Argus_ are similar to those of the
_Times_, and in the arrangement, contents, and general style of the
paper the same model has been followed. The standard issue is an
eight-page sheet about three-quarters the size of the _Daily News_; but
when Parliament is sitting, a two or four-page supplement is nearly
always issued; and on Saturdays the number of advertisements compels a
double issue, which includes 'London Town Talk,' by Mr. James Payne, and
about half a dozen columns of reviews, essays, etc. On ordinary days four
to five out of the eight pages are always covered with advertisements in
small type, charged for at the highest rate obtainable in the colonies.
The published price is threepence, and the circulation must be from ten
to fifteen thousand.

As the _Argus_ may be considered as the type of the Australian press at
the highest point it has yet attained, it is worth while to make a short
examination of a casual copy. The reading matter begins at the left-hand
corner of page 6, with the heading 'Shipping Intelligence,' under which
we learn that six steamers and one sailing-ship have arrived in Hobson's
Bay on December 21st, and that four steamers and one sailing-ship have
cleared out. Next comes a Weather Chart of Australia and New Zealand,
after the model of the one in the _Times_; and then follow the
observations taken at the Melbourne Observatory, a synopsis of the
weather, and the state of the tide, wind and weather at twenty-two
stations on the Murray, Murrumbidgee, Ovens, and Goulburn rivers. About
halfway down the third column, we reach the heading 'Commercial
Intelligence,' with a report upon the state of the market, and the sales
reported during the day, auctioneers' reports, list of specie shipments,
amount of revenue collected during the previous day at the Custom House
(£7,498), stock sales, calls and dividends, and commercial telegrams from
London, Sydney, and Adelaide.

The next heading is 'Mails Outward,' which are separated from the leading
columns only by the special advertisements, of which there are over a
column. It happens that this day there are only two leading articles,
whereas generally there are also two small or sub-leaders. The first
leader is on the finding of the Coroner's jury anent a disastrous railway
accident which has recently taken place. The second on the preference of
colonial girls and women for low-paid factory-work, when comparative
independence, easier work, and much higher wages are obtainable in
domestic service. These two leaders occupy altogether nearly three
columns, and are followed by five columns of 'News of the Day,' split up
into fifty paragraphs.

It is worth while to run the eye briefly through these paragraphs, which
might be headed thus--_Résumé_ of telegraphic intelligence; short
account of Dr. Benson, whose appointment to the Primacy is announced by
telegram; short account of the distribution of prizes at the Bordeaux
Exhibition; announcement of the arrival of the P. and 0. mail at Albany,
and of its departure from Melbourne the previous day; short account of
the trip of H.M.S. _Miranda_, just arrived in the bay; ditto of the
movements of H.M.S. _Nelson_, and of the Orient liner _Chimborazo_,
with mention of some notable colonists arrived by the last ship; summary
in eleven paragraphs of the last night's parliamentary proceedings;
notice of a meeting to have a testimonial picture of Sir Charles Sladen
placed in the Public Library; a puff of the coming issue of the
_Australasian_; account of an inquest; three notices of Civil Service
appointments; one of the intentions of the railway department about
excursion tickets, and another announcing the introduction of reply
post-cards; another that the Government intends circulating amongst
vignerons a report and pictures of the Phylloxera vastatrix; a summary of
the doings of the Tariff Commission; a notice of the intentions of the
Steam Navigation Board; a list of subscriptions to the children's
charities; a summary of two judgments in the Supreme Court; of a will
(value £75,200); of a mining law case; of applications for probate of a
will, and for the custody of children; an account of a fire, another of a
distribution of prizes; a summary of the programme of a Music Festival;
announcements of the different theatre performances, and seven
subscription lists.

The last column of the seventh page is headed 'Special Telegrams.' Of
these there are only five today: one about the construction of Prussian
railways on the Russian frontier, the second about the French expedition
to Tonquin, the third on the relations between France and Madagascar, the
fourth noting an explosion at Fort Valerian, the fifth on the execution
of Oberdank. Then follow eleven messages from Reuter on M. Tisza's speech
on the relations between Russia and Austria; on the Egyptian Financial
control; the new Archbishop of Canterbury; the Lough Mask murders; the
health of Mr. Fawcett and M. Gambetta; the trial of MM. Bontoux and
Feder; the mails; monetary intelligence; commercial intelligence, and
foreign shipping intelligence. This list gives not at all a bad idea of
what European news is considered of sufficient importance to be
telegraphed 15,000 miles.

Turning over the page, a column and a quarter is occupied with a general
summary of European news by the P. and 0. mail, telegraphed from Albany.
Then follows country news by telegraph. Between Sydney and Melbourne the
 _Argus_ has a special wire, which accounts for three quarters of a
column of Sydney intelligence on twenty different subjects. There is also
nearly half a column from Adelaide on nine subjects, and a "stick" from
Perth on three subjects. The list of overland passengers from and to
Sydney is also telegraphed from Albany. 'Mining and Monetary
Intelligence' takes up over a column, without counting another column in
very small type of 'Mining Reports.'

Turning to the back page, we find that the first column forms the
conclusion of the Parliamentary Debates. A column and a half has a large
heading--'The Creswick Calamity,'--and is chiefly composed of
subscription lists for the sufferers and accounts of meetings held in
various parts of the country on their behalf. A column and a quarter is
headed 'Sporting Intelligence '(results of small provincial race-meetings
being telegraphed); a column is devoted to 'Cricket,' and a third of a
column to' Rowing.'

We now take up the outside sheet, and find the whole of page 4, taken up
by a report of last night's Parliamentary debates. On the opposite page
(9) the first three columns contain a full report of the inquest in
connection with a fatal railway accident on a suburban line. Then comes a
list of eighty-seven school-buildings to be erected or completed at a
cost of £25,000. Three deputations take up nearly half, and the Russell
Street fire two-thirds, of a column.

Opening the sheet, pages 10 and 11 are the only two with reading matter.
On 10 is a report of the Police Commission Meeting, occupying two columns
and a half; and reports of School Speech Days--over three columns for
eight schools. On page 11 the first four columns are Law Reports; a
column and a half is devoted to a wool and station-produce report, and
two half columns to reports of meetings of the Melbourne Presbytery and
the Melbourne Hospital Committee.

The remaining space is taken up by paragraphs under a third of a column
in length, with cross-headings as follows: 'Casualties and Offences;'
'Police Intelligence;' 'The Death of Mr. Chabot;' 'New Insolvents;'
'University of Melbourne;' 'Friendly Societies;' 'The Belfast Savings
Bank Case (by telegraph);' 'The Workmen's Strike;' 'Collingwood City
Council;' 'A Recent Meeting;' 'The Wellesley Divorce Case;' 'The Victoria
Agricultural Society.' 'Australian Electric Light Co.;' 'Public Tenders;'
'Ballarat News;' 'Victoria Masonic Lodge;' 'Early Closing Association;'
'The Tariff Commission;' '_Iron_ on Continuous Brakes;' and letters to
the Editor on 'Holiday Excursion Tickets,' 'Window Blinds for Omnibuses,'
'Swimming at the State Schools,' 'The Musical Festival (3),' and
'Immigration to Victoria.'

An analysis of the advertisements of the _Argus_ is almost equally
interesting as showing the heterogeneity of the wants of the community.
There are Births, 3; Marriages, 5; Deaths, 6; Funeral Notices, 5; Missing
Friends, Messages etc., 8; Lost and Found, 13; Railways and Conveyances,
6; Shipping, no less than four columns, including eight different lines
of steamers to Europe, of which six are English, and seven of
intercolonial steamers, of which three are owned in Melbourne, one each
in Sydney, Adelaide, New Zealand and Tasmania. The next lines are Stocks
and Shares, of which there are 18 advertisements; Lectures, Sermons,
Soirées, etc, 5; Tutors, Governesses, Clerks etc., 45; which may be
summed up thus: Wanted, a traveller in the hardware line, cash-boys, a
copper-plate engraver, canvassers, junior chemists, five drapers'
salesmen, law costs clerk, an engineer and valuer for a shire council, a
female competent to manage the machine-room of a clothing factory, a
retoucher capable of working in mezzo crayons, junior hands for
Manchester and dress departments, two first-class cutters for order
trade, a good shop salesman, a junior clerk, two clerks for wine and
spirit store, a clerk proficient in Customs work, two clerks, (simply), a
general manager for a carrying company, a grammar-school master with a
degree, and one to teach the lower classes; an organist and two medical
men, £400 and £500 a year guaranteed; an accountant, private lessons in
dancing, a shorthand reporter. The persons advertising for situations
under this heading are only 4 out of 45; they are a matriculated
governess, a dancing-master, a doctor, a singing-master.

The next lines are 'Situations Wanted,' 40; and 'Situations Vacant,' 118.
The relative numbers are here again suggestive. Under the first heading I
find a barmaid, three cooks, carpenters' apprentices, three gardeners,
two nursery governesses, two housekeepers, three men desiring any
employment, seven nurses, a tailor, and the rest miscellaneous. The
vacancies are chiefly composed of 13 advertisements, from
registry-offices for servants of all capacities, married couples,
gardeners, housekeepers, butlers, plain cooks, parlourmaids, housemaids,
laundresses, waitresses, barmaids, cooks, laundresses, general servants,
nurses, needlewomen, lady-helps (3). Similar persons are advertised for
by private individuals; but besides these, I find: Wanted a
bullock-driver, a carter, a coachman, a shoeing smith, three butchers, a
bottler, two bakers, innumerable boys, barmen, a compositor, several
dressmakers in all departments, half a dozen drapers' assistants, four
grooms, sixty navvies in one advertisement, millers, haymakers,
woodcutters, spademen, needlewomen, quarrymen, etc., two wheelwrights, a
verger at £120 a year, pick and shovel men.

Turning over to the twelfth or back page, I find Wanted to Buy, 12;
Wanted to Sell, 35; Board and Lodging, 44; Houses to Let, 67; Houses for
Sale, 34; Partnerships, Businesses, etc., 44, of which 12 are hotels;
Wines, Spirits, etc., 16; Dress and Fashion, 3; Auction Sales, 128,
taking up 12 columns; Amusements, 24, taking up 2 columns; Stock and
Station Sales, 11; Horses and Carriages, 18; Produce and Provisions, 2
(Epps and Fry); Publications and Literature, 6; Bank Notices, 2; Public
Notices, half a column; Business Notices, 53; Money, 41; Machinery, 23;
Medical, 30; Judicial Law Notices, 6; Tenders, 26, and Meetings, 9. There
is also a column and a half of special advertisements charged for at
extra rates in the inside sheet just before the leading column.

Although the _Argus_ has a very influential and advertisement-bringing
class of readers, and penetrates beyond the limits of Victoria, by far
the largest circulation in Australia is that of the _Melbourne Age_, a
penny four-page sheet, published in Melbourne, which boasts of an issue
of 50,000 copies daily, almost all absorbed within Australia. Its leading
articles are as able and even more virulent than those of the _Argus_.
Its telegraphic intelligence is good, and in dramatic and literary
criticisms it is second only to the _Argus_ in Australia. But its news
is comparatively poor, owing to its being only a single-sheet paper, and
it caters for a far inferior class than the _Argus_. Its inventive
ability, in which it altogether surpasses the London _Daily Telegraph_,
has brought it the nickname of 'Ananias,' and it is essentially the
people's journal. Just as in politics the _Argus_ is not only the organ
but the leader of the ultra-Conservative party, even so the _Age_
coaches the Democracy. To its influence is mainly due the ascendency
which Mr. Berry's party held for so long, and the violence of the
measures which poor Mr. Berry took in hand. It was the _Age_ which
originated the idea of the Plebiscite, and of the progressive land-tax.
It is protectionist to the backbone, having commenced the cry of
'Victoria for the Victorians,' and fosters a policy of isolation from the
sister colonies. Prominent amongst its leader-writers is Mr. C. H.
Pearson, whose Democracy is at once the most ultra and the most cultured,
the most philosophical and the most dogmatic. Another leader of the
Radical party who frequently writes for the _Age_ is Mr. Dakin, the
rising young man of Victorian politics, who represents talent and
education apart from culture.

The third morning paper in Melbourne is the _Daily Telegraph_, a penny
Conservative sheet which has never attained any large influence or
circulation, although edited by a man of considerable literary ability.
The evening papers are the _Herald_, which is supposed to represent the
Catholic party; and the _World_, which is rather American in tone, but
very readable. Both are penny papers exerting very little influence.

In all the Victorian papers, of whatever party, it is noticeable that
Victorian topics, and especially Victorian politics, occupy an almost
exclusive share both of leading and news columns; while the New South
Wales and South Australian papers devote far more attention to
intercolonial and European affairs. The fact is that Victoria is much
more self-contained and independent of the mother country than its
neighbours. Somehow or other there is more local news obtainable, more
going-on, in fact, in Melbourne than in Sydney and Adelaide put together.
Everything and everybody in Victoria moves faster. Hence there is more to
chronicle; and greater interest is taken in what is going on in the
colony. The political excitement of the country is, after all, but an
outcome of this national vivacity of disposition. Half a dozen Berrys put
together could not raise one quarter of the feeling in Adelaide, far less
in Sydney.

After the _Argus_ I should place the _South Australian Register_,
published in Adelaide, as the best daily paper in Australia. In style and
get-up it is almost an exact copy of its Melbourne contemporary, and its
published price is twopence. In reports and correspondence it is quite as
enterprising, but its leading columns and critiques being almost all
written in the office, are necessarily weaker. The whole paper is less
carefully edited, but its opinions are more liberal, and it is in no
sense a party paper. It May, indeed, be said that not even the _Times_
exercises so much influence in its sphere as does the _Register_. It
not merely reflects public opinion, but, to a great extent, leads it, and
it must be admitted that, on the whole, it leads it very sensibly. It may
be urged against the _Register_, that its leading articles are wanting
in literary brilliancy as compared with those of the _Argus_; but they
are far more moderate and judicial in political matters. The
extraordinary merits of this paper, in so small a community, are due
partly to its having been, at a critical period in its existence, edited,
managed and partly owned by the late Mr. Howard Clark, a man of great
culture and ability, and partly to the close competition of the South
Australian _Advertiser_, a twopenny paper which is well sustained in
every department, and noted for occasional leading articles of great
brilliancy.

The _Sydney Morning Herald_ is the richest newspaper property in
Australia. It has correspondents in almost every capital in Europe,
including St. Petersburg--where the _Argus_ and _Register_ are not
represented--publishes an immense quantity of news, and is edited by an
able and liberal-minded man. But the absence of competition makes it
inferior in enterprise to either the _Argus_, _Register_, or
_Advertiser_. Its leading columns are sound but commonplace, and there
is a fatal odour of respectable dulness about the paper. A second paper
called the _Daily Telegraph_ was established in Sydney in 1879, which
seems to be meeting the wants of the penny public, but it is very
inferior to the _Herald_, or to the second-rate papers in the other
colonies. In Adelaide, the evening papers are merely penny reprints of
half of the morning papers. In Sydney, the _Herald_ proprietors publish
the _Echo_, a sprightly little sheet; but the best evening paper is the
_Evening News_, which caters for the popular taste and is somewhat
sensational.

The wants of the bushman, who relies on one weekly paper for his sole
intellectual food, and who, though often well educated, is far away from
libraries or books of any kind, have given rise to a class of weekly
papers which are quite _sui generis_. The model on which they are all
formed is the _Australasian_, published by the _Argus_ proprietors,
which is still the best known and the best. Some idea of the enormous
mass of reading-matter it contains may be gathered from the fact that its
ordinary issue is fifty-two pages, a little larger than the _Pall Mall_,
but containing five columns to the page and printed in the ordinary
small type used in most daily papers, and known to printers as 'brevier.'
To give an idea of the character of its contents is difficult. It is
partly a newspaper, partly a magazine. The telegrams for the week are
culled from the _Argus_. If it were not for the addition of a
fortnightly intercolonial letter, the way in which the week's news is
given would remind me of the _St. James's Budget_. It is divided into
Parliament, town news, country news, intercolonial, home (i.e. English),
and foreign news, and may be described as a classified reproduction of
the more important news in the _Argus_.

There are generally three or four leading articles somewhat of the
character--but of course not the quality--of the _Spectator_; and the
notes on the first page of the Liberal weekly are evidently imitated in a
page of short editorial comments called 'Topics of the Week.'
'Literature,' by which is meant a two-column review of a single book and
three or four short reviews, is another heading. The 'Ladies' Column'
contains a leader after the manner of the _Queen_, fashion items, notes
and queries, and every other week an excellent English letter by Mrs.
Cashel Hoey, dealing with new plays, books and social events in London.
'The Wanderer,' 'The Traveller,' 'The Sketcher,' 'The Tourist,' head
single or short serial articles of one and a half or two columns in
length, signed or not signed, but always either well written or
describing something new and interesting. 'Talk on 'Change' heads a
column and a half of satirical or humorous notes, which are very much
appreciated, and form a more leading feature of the paper than their
merit warrants. The anecdotes are often new and always admirably told,
but the comments are weak. 'The Theatres' contains one general critique
of the newest play in Melbourne--sometimes two--followed by short
detailed criticisms, hashed up from the _Argus_, of whatever is on the
boards at the different theatres. 'The Essayist' is one of the best
features in the paper, though it appeals to a very limited audience.
Those written by a gentleman signing himself 'An Eclectic,' are
exceptionally good--better, as a rule, than most similar essays in the
_Saturday_. Dr. J. E. Taylor's 'Popular Science Notes' are by no means
equal to those Mr. Proctor used to contribute. 'Original Poetry
'speaks for itself. 'Miscellany' heads a column of humorous extract
paragraphs, chiefly from American papers. 'The Novelist' contains a
serial. 'The Story-Teller' a single story--original. This department is
always well sustained, and no expense is spared in getting good work.
'All Sorts and Conditions of Men' has just been running through the
paper, Besant and Rice being favourite authors here. James Payne, B. L.
Farjeon and R. E. Francillon are other contributors whose names come into
my mind. Occasionally a colonial work is chosen, and the proprietors do a
great deal of service in bringing out really promising authors.

Besides all these standing dishes, there are, of course, a few stray
articles on all kinds of subjects. In a copy before me is one of a series
entitled, 'The Goldfields,' of special interest to miners, and treating
the subject technically.

But the two departments which may be said to have made the
_Australasian_ are the _Sportsman_ and the _Yeoman_, which, to all
intents and purposes, are separate papers incorporated with the
_Australasian_. Of the _Sportsman_, I don't think it is too much to
say, that it is the best sporting paper in the world, not excepting the
_Field_, and it fully deserves the supreme authority which it exercises
over all sporting matters south of the line. The page begins with
'Answers to Correspondents.' Then come one or two leading articles on
sporting matters, which form the stronghold of the department; then Turf
Gossips, the Betting Market, full descriptions of all Australian and the
principal New Zealand race-meetings, special training notes from
Flemington, Randwick and Adelaide, intercolonial sporting notes and
letters from special correspondents, winding up with 'Sporting Notes from
Home.' Cricket next has a leading article and notes, followed by
descriptions of the more important matches. Yachting, rowing, coursing,
pigeon-shooting, hunting, shooting, football, and lawn-tennis all come in
for a small share.

The _Yeoman_ is not much in my line, though it is looked up to as a
great authority upon all agricultural and pastoral topics. Taking a
current number, I find it begins with 'Answers to Correspondents;' then
comes the 'Weekly Review of the Corn Trade;' 'Rural Topics and Events;'
a series of short editorial comments; a leader on' Wheat-growing;' 'The
Crops and the Harvest, by our Agricultural Reporter, No. IV.;' 'In the
Queensland Down County, No. VI.;' 'The Water Conservation Act, No. "I could
almost endure the suspicion because of the compliment to my command of
your charming language."
"Prove that you are an Englishman. No one knows where you came from; no one
knows what you are. You are a fair subject for suspicion, apart from
the evidence shown," said the Abbe, trying now to be as polite as
the tailor.

"This is a free country. So long as the law is obeyed, one can go
where one wills without question, I take it."
"There is a law of vagrancy."
"I am a householder, a tenant of the Church, not a vagrant."
"Monsieur, you can have your choice of proving these things here or in
Quebec," said the Abbe, with angry impatience again.

"I may not be compelled to prove anything. It is the privilege of the
law to prove the crime against me."
"You are a very remarkable tailor," said the Abbe sarcastically.

"I have not had the honour of making you even a cassock, I think.
Monsieur le Cure, I believe, approves of those I make for him.
He has a good figure, however."
"You refuse to identify yourself?" asked the Abbe, with asperity.

"I am not aware that you possess any right to ask me to do so."
The Abbe's thin lips clipped-to like shears. He turned again towards
the officers.

"It would relieve the situation," interposed the Seigneur, "if Monsieur
could find it possible to grant the Abbe's demand."
Charley bowed to the Seigneur. "I do not know why I should be taken for a
Frenchman or an infidel. I speak French well, I presume, but I spoke it
from the cradle. I speak English with equally good accent,"
he added, with the glimmer of a smile; for there was a kind of exhilaration
in the little contest, even with so much at stake. This miserable,
silly charge had that behind it which might open up a grave, make its
dead to walk, fright folk from their senses, and destroy their peace for
ever. Yet he was cool and thinking clearly. He measured up the Abbe
in his mind, analysed him, found the vulnerable spot in his nature,
the avenue to the one place lighted by a lamp of humanity.

He leaned a hand upon the ledge of the chimney where he stood, and said,
in a low voice:

"Monsieur l'Abbe, it is sometimes the misfortune of just men to be
terribly unjust. 'For conscience sake' is another name for prejudice--
for those antipathies which, natural to us, are, at the same
time, trap- doors, for our just intentions. You, Monsieur, have a
radical antipathy to those men who are unable to see or to feel what
you were privileged to see and feel from the time of your birth. You
know that you are right.
Do you think that those who do not see as you do are wicked because they
were not given what you were given? If you are right, may they, poor folk!
not be the victims of their blindness of heart--of the darkness born
with them, or of the evils that overtake them? For conscience sake, you
would crush out evil. To you an infidel--so called--is an evil-doer, a
peril to the peace of God. You drive him out from among the faithful.

You heard that a tailor of Chaudiere was an infidel.

You did not prove him one, but you, for conscience sake, are trying to
remove him, by fixing on him a crime of which he may, with
slight show of reason, be suspected. But I ask you, would you have taken
the same deep interest in setting the law upon this suspected man did
you not believe him to be an infidel?"
He paused. The Abbe made no reply. The Cure was bending forward
eagerly; the Seigneur sat with his hands over the top of his cane, his
chin on his hands, never taking his eyes from him, save to glance once
or twice at his brother. Jo Portugais was crouched on the bench,
watching.

"I do not know what makes an infidel," Charley went on. "Is it an
honest mind, a decent life, an austerity of living as great as that
of any priest, a neighbourliness that gives and takes in fairness--"

"No, no, no," interposed the Cure eagerly. "So you have lived here,
Monsieur; I can vouch for that. Charity and a good heart have gone
with you always."
"Do you mean that a man is an infidel because he cannot say, as
Louis Trudel said to me, 'Do you believe in God?' and replies, as
I replied, 'God knows!' Is that infidelity? If God is God, He alone
knows when the mind or the tongue can answer in the terms of that
faith which you profess. He knows the secret desires of our hearts,
and what we believe, and what we do not believe; He knows better
than we ourselves know--if there is a God. Does a man conjure God,
if he does not believe in God?
'God knows!' is not a statement of infidelity. With me it was a
phrase --no more. You ask me to bare my inmost soul. I have not
learned how to confess. You ask me to lay bare my past, to prove
my identity.One knows quite enough about other people's business
here without having papers specially to spread it, and in such small
communities the _Bulletin_ tribe are a public nuisance. But yet they
sell freely at sixpence a copy!

The provincial press is, as a rule, feeble. Ballarat, Sandhurst, and
Geelong are the only three towns large enough to support papers of the
slightest value outside the place where they are published. But these
small fry are very useful in their humble sphere, and are almost without
exception respectably conducted. How they 'pay' is 'one of those things
which no fellah can understand.'

There are a number of newspapers devoted to the promotion of the
interests of the various religious bodies, the licensed victuallers, and
other trades. The best of these is the _Australian Insurance and Banking
Record_, which is most ably conducted. The licensed victuallers support
a weekly _Gazette_ in each of the principal towns. The Church of
England has two organs, one in Sydney, and the other in Melbourne. The
Temperance party, like their opponents, have three papers devoted to the
maintenance of their views, besides which, they get a good deal of side
support from the dozen or so of religious sheets. The licensed
victuallers seem to combine sporting and dramatic items with the advocacy
of what they call the TRADE, and abuse of the Good Templars. The latter,
however, are still more vehement in abuse, and even less sensible in
argument.

Besides the newspaper press, Australia possesses four magazines, two
published in Sydney and two in Melbourne. Of the former, one known first
as the _Australian_, and then as the _Imperial Review_, is not worth
mentioning, if, indeed, it is not ere now defunct. The other, called the
 _Sydney University Review_, a quarterly, has only just come into
existence with an exceptionally brilliant number, three articles in which
are fully worthy of a place in any of the leading London monthlies. That
it will continue as it has begun I should fancy to be more than doubtful.
The oldest established magazine is the _Melbourne Review_, started
about five years ago. For the last three years it has been languishing.
The most flourishing magazine is the _Victorian Review_, which is only
three years old. The contents are very variable in quality. Occasionally
there is a really first-class article, and generally there are one or two
very readable. The quality has much fallen off during the last eighteen
months, but it affords a convenient outlet for the young colonists to air
political and social crotchets, and to descant on philosophical theories.
Now and then the editor used to hook a big fish, such as the Duke of
Manchester, Professor Amos, and Senor Castelar, who have all contributed
to its columns. The philosophical articles are naturally very feeble, but
not unfrequently university professors and others among the ablest
residents in Australia make the _Review_ a vehicle for setting forth
schemes and ideas, which would not find admission into the newspapers.

LITERATURE, LANGUAGE, AND ART.

Strictly speaking, there is not, and cannot yet be, any such thing as an
Australian literature. Such writers as live in Australia are nearly all
English-born or bred, and draw their inspiration from English sources. A
new country offers few subjects for poetry and romance, and prophecy is
by no means so inspiring as the relation of the great deeds of the past.
But yet there has been at least one amongst us who may claim to have had
the real poetic afflatus, and whose subjects were invariably taken from
the events of the life around him. This was Thomas Gordon, the author of
'How we Beat the Favourite,' and several other short pieces of verse of
rare merit, and redolent of the Australian air. George Brunton Stephens
is another versifier, who at times showed signs of genius; and it is not
long since a Mr. Horace Kendall died, who ran off sheets of graceful
verses with considerable talent and no little poetic fancy.

In philosophy, history, and science, many of the Professors at Australian
Universities have written treatises worth reading; but Australia has had
so little influence either upon their subjects or their mode of treating
them, that their merit cannot be claimed for this country. Perhaps the
best-known writers of this class, resident in the colonies, are Professor
Hearn, author of 'The Aryan Household.' and Mr. Charles A. Pearson, the
historian of the Middle Ages.

Australia may boast of having furnished no uninteresting theme to Henry
Kingsley, and several minor English novelists. She has sent to England no
less rising a light than Mr. B. L. Farjeon; but the few novels that are
written and published here have never attracted notice across the ocean,
and rarely even in Australia itself, if we except Mr. Marcus Clarke's
'His Natural Life.' After Mr. Clarke come Mr. Garnet Walsh, Mr. Grosvenor
Bunster, and one or two prophets in their own neighbourhood, pleasant
writers of Christmas stories, clever dramatizers of novels and
pantomime-writers, but none of them with the least claim to a wider
audience.

The circumstances of a new colony naturally cause additions to the
word-stock of the mother country. New occupations and modes of living
need new words to describe them, or, as often as not, the settler not
being of an inventive disposition, old words are used in a new sense.

Rosalie turned as if to go. "I do not recall what letters pass
through the post-office. I have a good memory for forgetting. Good-evening,"
she added, with an excess of courtesy. Paulette read the placid scorn
in the girl's face; she did not see and would not understand that Rosalie
did not scorn her for what she had ever done, but for something that she
was.

"You think I am the dirt under your feet," she said, now white, now red,
and mad with anger. "I'm not fit to speak with you--I'm a rag for the
dust pile!"
"I have never thought so," answered Rosalie. "I have not liked you, but
I am sorry for you, and I never thought those things."
"You lie!" was the rejoinder; and Rosalie, turning away quickly with
trouble in her face, put her hands to her ears, and, hastening down the
hillside, did not hear the words the woman called after her.

"To-morrow every one shall know you are a thief. Run, run, run! You can
hear what I say, white-face! They shall know about the little cross
to-morrow."
She followed Rosalie at a distance, her eyes blazing. As fate would have
it, she met on the highroad the least scrupulous man in the parish,
an inveterate gossip, the keeper of the general store, whose only
opposition in business was the post-office shop. He was the centre of the
village tittle-tattle, and worse. With malicious speed Paulette told him
how she had seen Rosalie Evanturel nailing the little cross on the
church door of a certain night. If he wanted proof of what she said, let
him ask Jo Portugais.

Having spat out her revenge, she went on to the village, and
through it to her house, where she prepared to visit the shop of
the tailor. Her sense of retaliation satisfied, Rosalie passed from her
mind; her child only occupied it. In another hour she would know where
her child was-- the tailor had promised that she should. Then
perhaps she would be sorry for the accident to the Notary; for it
was an accident, in spite of appearances.

It was dark when Paulette entered the door of the tailor's house. When
she came out, a half-hour later, with elation in her carriage, and tears
of joy running down her face, she did not look about her; she did
not care whether or not any one saw her: she was possessed with only
one thought--her child! She passed like a swift wind down the
street, making for home and for her departure to the hiding-place
of her child.
She had not seen a figure in the shadow of a tree near by as she
came from the tailor's door. She had not heard a smothered cry
behind her.
She was not aware that in unspeakable agony another woman knocked
softly at the door of the tailor's house, and, not waiting for an
answer, opened it and entered. It was Rosalie Evanturel.A white man born in Australia is a
'colonial,' vulgarly a 'gum-sucker;' if he was born in New South Wales,
he is also a 'cornstalk.' An aboriginal is always a 'black fellow.' A
native of Australia would mean a white man born in the colony. The
diggings have furnished the expressive phrase 'to make your pile.' A
'nugget'--_pace_ Archbishop Trench--was a Californian importation. When
speaking of a goldfield a colonist says 'on.' Thus you live 'on Bendigo,'
but 'in' or 'at' Sandhurst--the latter being the new name for the old
goldfield town. To 'shout' drinks has no connection with the neuter verb
of dictionary English. A 'shicer' is first a mining claim which turns
out to be useless, and then anything that does so. There is room for a
very interesting dictionary of Australianisms. But I have no time to
collect such a list. The few words which I have given will serve as an
indication of the bent of colonial genius in the manufacture of a new
dialect; and as they are given without any effort, just as they have come
to my mind in the course of one evening's thinking as I write, they may
fairly be taken as being amongst the commonest.

I have headed this letter 'Literature and Art,'so that I am morally bound
to say something about the latter, although there is next to nothing to
say. Australia has not yet produced any artist of note. Perhaps the best
is Mr. E. C. Dowling, and he is a Tasmanian. Resident in Victoria is a M.
Louis Buyelot, a landscape artist of considerable merit. Excepting him,
we have no artists here whose works rise beyond mere mediocrity. Mr.
Summers was a Victorian, but his fame is almost unknown in his own
country. Thanks to Sir Redmond Barry, Victoria possesses a very fair
National Gallery attached to the Melbourne Public Library. Some of the
paintings in it are excellent, notably Mr. Long's 'Esther;' the majority
very mediocre. For my own part I prefer the little gallery at Sydney,
which, though it has not nearly so many paintings, has also not nearly so
many bad ones, and owns several that are really good, mostly purchased
from the exhibitions. Adelaide has also recently bought a few pictures to
form the nucleus of a gallery.

By means of Schools of Design and Art, the colonial Governments have,
during the last few years, been doing all in their power to encourage the
growth of artistic taste, but the whole bent of colonial life is against
it. Art means thought and care, and the whole teaching of colonial life
is to 'manage' with anything that can be pressed into service in the
shortest time and at the smallest expense. Ludwig Tieck exclusively devoted
himself to the German and romantic Middle Ages, to the Minnesingers, to
Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Calderon, and modelled his own on their
immortal works.
The eyes of his contemporaries were by him first completely opened
to the long-misunderstood beauties of the Middle Ages. His kindred
spirit, Novalis (Hardenberg), destined to a too brief career, gave
proofs of signal talent. Heinrich von Kleist, who committed suicide,
left the finest-spirited and most delightful dramas.It is significant of this, that there is hardly
a hut in the bush where you will not see woodcuts from the _Illustrated
and Graphic_ pasted up, and that the pictures most admired at the
exhibitions were those which were most dramatic--such as a horse in a
stable on fire, and a showman's van broken down in the snow through the
death of the donkey which drew it. Next to dramatic pictures, those in
which horses, cows, or sheep appeared were most admired, for here the
colonist felt himself a competent critic, and was delighted to discover
any error on the part of the artist. I at length demanded.

STRANGER. - 'My name is Chaleco of Valdepenas; in the time of the
French I served as bragante, fighting for Ferdinand VII.

I am now a captain on half-pay in the service of Donna Isabel; as for my
business here, it is to speak with you.Wallace composed
'Maritana' in Australia, and plenty of dance-music is manufactured every
day.



THE END.