Produced by Suzanne Shell, Cori Samuel and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


THE QUEEN

OF THE

PIRATE ISLE


BY

BRET HARTE


ILLUSTRATED BY

KATE GREENAWAY


A FACSIMILE FROM THE ORIGINAL PUBLICATION OF 1885

[Illustration]

UNIVERSAL BOOKS LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND

Harte, Bret, 1836-1902.

ISBN 0 86441 018 2.


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                         PAGE

MRS SMITH                  7

POLLY                     10

BEGGAR CHILD              12

SCHOOL MISTRESS           12

INDIAN MAIDEN             13

PROUD LADY                14

CHINESE JUNK              15

SWIMMING FOR HIS LIFE     16

A TENT                    17

CAPTURE OF MERCHANTMAN    18

AT SUPPER                 20

POLLY IN THE BRANCHES     23

PATSEY                    25

SLUMGULLION               28

EACH OTHER'S HANDS        30

EDGE OF CLIFF             31

SLIDING DOWN HILL         32

PIG TAIL ROPE             34

FIREWORKS IN CAVE         37

LADY MARY'S HAIR GONE     39

INVISIBLE MEDICINE        42

CLAD IN DEEPEST MOURNING  44

BROTHER STEP-AND-FETCH-IT 48

WAN LEE                   54

NOT ALWAYS PIRATES        56

POLLY BROUGHT HOME        58

ASLEEP WITH DOLL          60


[Illustration]


THE QUEEN OF THE PIRATE ISLE.



Men and women,--more or less,-- Have minds o' the self-same metal,
mould, and form!-- Doth not the infant love to sport and laugh,
And tie a kettle to a puppy's tail?-- Doth not the dimpled girl
her 'kerchief don (Mocking her elder) mantilla wise--then speed
To mass and noontide visits; where are bandied Smooth gossip-words
of sugared compliment?

But when at budding womanhood arrived, She casts aside all childish
games, nor thinks Of aught save some gay paranymph--who, caught In
love's stout meshes, flutters round the door, And fondly beckons
her away from home,-- The whilst, her lady mother fain would cage
The foolish bird within its narrow cell

!
This was, I believe, the only instance when she had
borrowed from another's fiction. Most of the characters that she
assumed for days and sometimes weeks at a time were purely original
in conception; some so much so as to be vague to the general
understanding. I remember that her personation of a certain Mrs.
Smith, whose individuality was supposed to be sufficiently
represented by a sun-bonnet worn wrong side before and a weekly
addition to her family, was never perfectly appreciated by her own
circle although she lived the character for a month. Another
creation known as "The Proud Lady"--a being whose excessive and
unreasonable haughtiness was so pronounced as to give her features
the expression of extreme nausea, caused her mother so much alarm
that it had to be abandoned. This was easily effected. The Proud
Lady was understood to have died. Indeed, most of Polly's
impersonations were got rid of in this way, although it by no means
prevented their subsequent reappearance. "I thought Mrs. Smith was
dead," remonstrated her mother at the posthumous appearance of that
lady with a new infant. "She was buried alive and kem to!" said
Polly with a melancholy air. Fortunately, the representation of a
resuscitated person required such extraordinary acting, and was,
through some uncertainty of conception, so closely allied in facial
expression to the Proud Lady, that Mrs. It is our duty and our destiny
to develop all the physical resources of the continent--to stimulate
its agricultural capabilities--to bring to light its boundless
mineral treasures--to pierce its mountains and level its valleys--to
control its mighty floods--and to make it worthy to be the seat of
human freedom and of human empire.

Nor is it less our destiny to build up a moral and social power and
a political organization, which shall shed abroad a new and glorious
light, beaming with immortal hopes, and penetrating to the farthest
verge of the habitable globe.

Nature, in every form of benignant usefulness and unequalled grandeur,
invites us to this tremendous task.

The loyal people of the nation have not been insensible to these
mystic calls and the noble anticipations growing out of them,
fraught as they are with the happiness and progress of the human
race.

They have projected works of the most gigantic proportions, nor,
although they are conscious that union is indispensable to their
success, have they hesitated to begin them, with all the high
confidence necessary to their completion. Even amid the perils
and the vast expenditures of civil war have they embarked in the
grand enterprise of uniting the Atlantic and Pacific oceans by a
continental highway, equal in its cost and its importance to the
power and resources of a mighty empire. Vast internal streams and
lakes call for union by canals, which shall typify the union of hearts
and of interests destined to bind together millions of freemen,
whose connection of brotherhood and national unity shall be as
lasting as the perpetual flow of our mighty rivers, and as
full of blessings as our great lakes are of their pure and crystal
waters. The agitation of these momentous schemes, under existing
circumstances, is a phenomenon indicating a consciousness of security
and of vast power in the community, which, at the same time that
it is engaged in the perilous and bloody work of preserving the
Union, is preparing to perform the most important duties appertaining
to the nation in the hour of its most perfectly established and
permanent authority. It is the instinct of the national destiny
working out its ends in spite of the difficulties and dangers of the
hour. It is the prophetic vision of the popular mind, unconsciously
preparing for a great future not yet visible to the natural eye,
but which the providence of God, in its own good time, will verify
to the firm and courageous hearts of our people.

The loyal people of our country, those who are determined to restore
the Union, are well aware that it cannot be maintained by force.

That great political organization was voluntary in its origin, based
on the consent of the governed; and it has been upheld through all
its marvellous career of prosperity by the free and unconstrained
will of the people, who rejoiced in its common benefits and blessings.

The novel system on which it was built, not only required the largest
liberty for its very conception and for its practical embodiment,
but was also admirably devised to secure the complete and permanent
enjoyment of that individual independence in thought and action,
which is the first of human privileges.

Those States of the Union which are preëminently loyal to it, have
ever cherished the most liberal principles of civil polity,
and have framed their constitutions in accordance with the most
modern and advanced maxims of popular rights.

So far are they from any disposition to usurp authority or to
impose unjust or unnecessary restraints upon the political action
of the people, that they are charged with the opposite fault of
carrying liberty to the extreme of ungoverned license. Of all the
American States, these are the least likely to interfere with the
great principles of civil liberty, or to impose an unacceptable
government on the people by force.

All the violence, so far as any has been shown, is wholly on the
other side.

Leaving entirely out of view the exceptional irregularities arising
from a state of civil war, and it must be acknowledged that the
social and political system of the Southern States is one which
rests on arbitrary force as its corner stone.

That evening she was unusually silent. She would have taken
Bridget, her nurse, into her confidence, but this would have
involved a long explanation of her own feelings, from which, like
all imaginative children, she shrank. She, however, made preparation
for the proposed flight by settling in her mind which of her two
dolls she would take. A wooden creature with easy going knees and
moveable hair seemed to be more fit for hard service and any
indiscriminate scalping that might turn up hereafter. At supper, she
timidly asked a question of Bridget. "Did ye ever hear the loikes uv
that, Ma'am," said the Irish handmaid with affectionate pride,
"Shure the darlint's head is filled noight and day with ancient
history. She's after asking me now if Queen's ever run away!" To
Polly's remorseful confusion here her good father equally proud of
her precocious interest and his own knowledge, at once interfered
with an unintelligible account of the abdication of various Queens
in history until Polly's head ached again. Well meant as it was, it
only settled in the child's mind that she must keep the awful secret
to herself and that no one could understand her.

[Illustration]

The eventful day dawned without any unusual sign of importance. It
was one of the cloudless summer days of the Californian foot hills,
bright, dry, and as the morning advanced, hot in the white sunshine.
The actual, prosaic house in which the Pirates apparently lived, was
a mile from a mining settlement on a beautiful ridge of pine woods
sloping gently towards a valley on the one side, and on the other
falling abruptly into a dark deep olive gulf of pine trees, rocks,
and patches of red soil. Beautiful as the slope was, looking over to
the distant snow peaks which seemed to be in another world than
theirs, the children found a greater attraction in the fascinating
depths of a mysterious gulf, or "cañon," as it was called, whose
very name filled their ears with a weird music. To creep to the edge
of the cliff, to sit upon the brown branches of some fallen pine,
and putting aside the dried tassels to look down upon the backs of
wheeling hawks that seemed to hang in mid-air was a never failing
delight. Here Polly would try to trace the winding red ribbon of
road that was continually losing itself among the dense pines of the
opposite mountains; here she would listen to the far off strokes of
a woodman's axe, or the rattle of some heavy waggon, miles away,
crossing the pebbles of a dried up water course. Here, too, the
prevailing colours of the mountains, red and white and green, most
showed themselves. There were no frowning rocks to depress the
children's fancy, but everywhere along the ridge pure white quartz
bared itself through the red earth like smiling teeth, the very
pebbles they played with were streaked with shining mica like bits
of looking-glass. The distance was always green and summer-like, but
the colour they most loved, and which was most familiar to them, was
the dark red of the ground beneath their feet everywhere. It showed
itself in the roadside bushes; its red dust pervaded the leaves of
the overhanging laurel, it coloured their shoes and pinafores; I am
afraid it was often seen in Indian like patches on their faces and
hands. That it may have often given a sanguinary tone to their
fancies, I have every reason to believe.

[Illustration]

It was on this ridge that the three children gathered at ten o'clock
that morning. An earlier flight had been impossible on account of
Wan Lee being obliged to perform his regular duty of blacking the
shoes of Polly and Hickory before breakfast,--a menial act which in
the pure Republic of childhood was never thought inconsistent with
the loftiest piratical ambition. On the ridge they met one "Patsey,"
the son of a neighbour, sun burned, broad-brimmed hatted, red
handed, like themselves. As there were afterwards some doubts
expressed whether he joined the Pirates of his own free will, or
was captured by them, I endeavour to give the colloquy exactly as it
occurred:--

_Patsey._ "Hallo, fellers."

_The Pirates._ "Hello!"

_Patsey._ "Goin' to hunt bars? Dad seed a lot o' tracks at sun up."

_The Pirates_ (hesitating). "No--o--"

_Patsey._ "I am; know where I kin get a six-shooter."

_The Pirates_ (almost ready to abandon piracy for bear hunting, but
preserving their dignity). "Can't! We've runn'd away for real
pirates."

_Patsey._ "Not for good!"

_The Queen_ (interposing with sad dignity and real tears in her
round blue eyes). "Yes!" (slowly and shaking her head). "Can't go
back again. Never! Never! Never! The--the--eye is cast!"

_Patsey_ (bursting with excitement). "No'o! Sho'o! Wanter know."

_The Pirates_ (a little frightened themselves, but tremulous with
gratified vanity). "The Perleese is on our track!"

_Patsey._ "Lemme go with yer!"

_Hickory._ "Wot'll yer giv?"

_Patsey._ "Pistol and er bananer."

_Hickory_ (with judicious prudence). "Let's see 'em."

Patsey was off like a shot; his bare little red feet trembling under
him. In a few minutes he returned with an old fashioned revolver
known as one of "Allen's pepper boxes" and a large banana. He was at
once enrolled and the banana eaten.

As yet they had resolved on no definite nefarious plan. Hickory
looking down at Patsey's bare feet instantly took off his own shoes.
The bold act sent a thrill through his companions. Wan Lee took off
his cloth leggings, Polly removed her shoes and stockings, but with
royal foresight, tied them up in her handkerchief. The last link
between them and civilization was broken.

"Let's go to the Slumgullion."

[Illustration]

"Slumgullion" was the name given by the miners to a certain soft,
half-liquid mud, formed of the water and finely powdered earth that
was carried off by the sluice boxes during gold washing, and
eventually collected in a broad pool or lagoon before the outlet.
There was a pool of this kind a quarter of a mile away, where there
were "diggings" worked by Patsey's father, and thither they
proceeded along the ridge in single file. When it was reached they
solemnly began to wade in its viscid paint-like shallows. Possibly
its unctuousness was pleasant to the touch; possibly there was a
fascination in the fact that their parents had forbidden them to go
near it, but probably the principal object of this performance was
to produce a thick coating of mud on the feet and ankles, which,
when dried in the sun, was supposed to harden the skin and render
their shoes superfluous. It was also felt to be the first real step
towards independence; they looked down at their ensanguined
extremities and recognized the impossibility of their ever again
crossing (unwashed) the family threshold.

Then they again hesitated. There was a manifest need of some well
defined piratical purpose. The last act was reckless and
irretrievable, but it was vague. They gazed at each other. There was
a stolid look of resigned and superior tolerance in Wan Lee's eyes.
Polly's glance wandered down the side of the slope to the distant
little tunnels or openings made by the miners who were at work in
the bowels of the mountain. "I'd like to go into one of them funny
holes," she said to herself, half aloud.

Wan Lee suddenly began to blink his eyes with unwonted excitement.
"Catchee tunnel--heap gold," he said, quickly. "When manee come
outside to catchee dinner--Pilats go inside catchee tunnel! Shabbee!
Pilats catchee gold allee samee Melican man!"

[Illustration]

"And take perseshiun," said Hickory.

"And hoist the Pirate flag," said Patsey.

"And build a fire, and cook, and have a family," said Polly.

The idea was fascinating to the point of being irresistible. The
eyes of the four children became rounder and rounder. They seized
each other's hands and swung them backwards and forwards,
occasionally lifting their legs in a solemn rhythmic movement known
only to childhood.

"Its orful far off!" said Patsey, with a sudden look of dark
importance. "Pap sez its free miles on the road. Take all day ter
get there."

The bright faces were overcast.

"Less go down er slide!" said Hickory, boldly.

[Illustration]

They approached the edge of the cliff. The "slide" was simply a
sharp incline zigzagging down the side of the mountain used for
sliding goods and provisions from the summit to the tunnel men at
the different openings below. The continual traffic had gradually
worn a shallow gulley half filled with earth and gravel into the
face of the mountain which checked the momentum of the goods in
their downward passage, but afforded no foothold for a pedestrian.
No one had ever been known to descend a slide. That feat was
evidently reserved for the Pirate band. They approached the edge of
the slide hand in hand, hesitated--and the next moment disappeared!

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

Five minutes later the tunnel men of the Excelsior mine, a mile
below, taking their luncheon on the rude platform of _débris_ before
their tunnel, were suddenly driven to shelter in the tunnel from an
apparent rain of stones, and rocks, and pebbles, from the cliffs
above. Looking up, they were startled at seeing four round objects
revolving and bounding in the dust of the slide, which eventually
resolved themselves into three boys and a girl. For a moment the
good men held their breath in helpless terror. Twice, one of the
children, had struck the outer edge of the bank and displaced stones
that shot a thousand feet down into the dizzy depths of the valley!
and now, one of them, the girl, had actually rolled out of the slide
and was hanging over the chasm supported only by a clump of chimasal
to which she clung!

But this burden is not unmeaning, and signifies "Hail to the noon."
_Noin_ or noon, the ninth hour was so called in the Celtic, because
at midsummer in our northern latitudes it was the ninth hour after
sunrise.

With the Romans, in a more southern latitude, noon was the ninth
hour after sunrise, at six in the morning, answering to our three
o'clock of the afternoon.

A song with this burden was sung in England in the days of Charles the
Second:--
I am a senseless thing, with a hey!
Men call me a king, with a ho?
For my luxury and ease, They brought me o'er the seas, _With a heigh,
nonnie, nonnie, nonnie, no!_
Mr Chappell cites an ancient ballad which was sung to the tune
of _Hie dildo, dil_.
Then the extended figure was seen to detach
what looked like a small black rope from its shoulders and throw it
to the girl. There was another little giggle. The faces of the men
below paled in terror. Then Polly--for it was she--hanging to the
long pig-tail of Wan Lee, was drawn with fits of laughter back in
safety to the slide. Their childish treble of appreciation was
answered by a ringing cheer from below.

"Darned ef I ever want to cut off a Chinaman's pig-tail again,
boys," said one of the tunnel men as he went back to dinner.

Meantime the children had reached the goal and stood before the
opening of one of the tunnels. Then these four heroes who had looked
with cheerful levity on the deadly peril of their descent became
suddenly frightened at the mysterious darkness of the cavern and
turned pale at its threshold.

"Mebbee a wicked Joss backside holee, He catchee Pilats," said Wan
Lee, gravely.

Hickory began to whimper, Patsey drew back, Polly alone stood her
ground, albeit with a trembling lip.

"Let's say our prayers and frighten it away," she said, stoutly.

"No! No!" said Wan Lee, with sudden alarm. "No frighten Spillits!
You waitee! Chinee boy he talkee Spillit not to frighten you."[A]

[Footnote A: The Chinese pray devoutly to the Evil Spirits _not_ to
injure them.]

Tucking his hands under his blue blouse, Wan Lee suddenly produced
from some mysterious recess of his clothing a quantity of red paper
slips which he scattered at the entrance of the cavern. Then drawing
from the same inexhaustible receptacle certain squibs or fireworks,
he let them off and threw them into the opening. There they went off
with a slight fizz and splutter, a momentary glittering of small
points in the darkness and a strong smell of gunpowder. Polly gazed
at the spectacle with undisguised awe and fascination. Hickory and
Patsey breathed hard with satisfaction; it was beyond their wildest
dreams of mystery and romance. Even Wan Lee appeared transfigured
into a superior being by the potency of his own spells. But an
unaccountable disturbance of some kind in the dim interior of the
tunnel quickly drew the blood from their blanched cheeks again. It
was a sound like coughing followed by something like an oath.

"He's made the Evil Spirit orful sick," said Hickory, in a loud
whisper.

A slight laugh that to the children seemed demoniacal, followed.

"See," said Wan Lee, "Evil Spillet be likee Chinee, try talkee him."

[Illustration]

The Pirates looked at Wan Lee not without a certain envy of this
manifest favouritism. A fearful desire to continue their awful
experiments, instead of pursuing their piratical avocations, was
taking possession of them; but Polly, with one of the swift
transitions of childhood, immediately began to extemporise a house
for the party at the mouth of the tunnel, and, with parental
foresight, gathered the fragments of the squibs to build a fire for
supper. That frugal meal consisting of half a ginger biscuit,
divided into five small portions each served on a chip of wood, and
having a deliciously mysterious flavour of gunpowder and smoke, was
soon over. It was necessary after this, that the Pirates should at
once seek repose after a day of adventure, which they did for the
space of forty seconds in singularly impossible attitudes and far
too aggressive snoring. Indeed, Master Hickory's almost upright
_pose_, with tightly folded arms, and darkly frowning brows was felt
to be dramatic, but impossible for a longer period. The brief
interval enabled Polly to collect herself and to look around her in
her usual motherly fashion. Suddenly she started and uttered a cry.
In the excitement of the descent she had quite overlooked her doll,
and was now regarding it with round-eyed horror!

"Lady Mary's hair's gone!" she cried, convulsively grasping the
Pirate Hickory's legs.

[Illustration]

Hickory at once recognised the battered doll under the aristocratic
title which Polly had long ago bestowed upon it. He stared at the
bald and battered head.

"Ha! ha!" he said, hoarsely; "skelped by Injins!"

For an instant the delicious suggestion soothed the imaginative
Polly. But it was quickly dispelled by Wan Lee.

"Lady Maley's pig-tail hangee top side hillee. Catchee on big quartz
stone allee same Polly, me go fetchee."

"No!" quickly shrieked the others. The prospect of being left in the
proximity of Wan Lee's evil spirit, without Wan Lee's exorcising
power, was anything but reassuring. "No, don't go!" Even Polly
(dropping a maternal tear on the bald head of Lady Mary) protested
against this breaking up of the little circle. "Go to bed," she
said, authoritatively, "and sleep until morning."

Thus admonished, the pirates again retired. This time effectively,
for worn by actual fatigue or soothed by the delicious coolness of
the cave, they gradually, one by one, succumbed to real slumber.
Polly withheld from joining them, by official and maternal
responsibility sat and blinked at them affectionately.

[Illustration]

Gradually she, too, felt herself yielding to the fascination and
mystery of the place and the solitude that encompassed her. Beyond
the pleasant shadows where she sat, she saw the great world of
mountain and valley through a dreamy haze that seemed to rise from
the depths below and occasionally hang before the cavern like a
veil. Long waves of spicy heat rolling up the mountain from the
valley brought her the smell of pine trees and bay and made the
landscape swim before her eyes. She could hear the far off cry of
teamsters on some unseen road; she could see the far off cloud of
dust following the mountain stage coach, whose rattling wheels she
could not hear. She felt very lonely, but was not quite afraid; she
felt very melancholy, but was not entirely sad. And she could have
easily awakened her sleeping companions if she wished.

[Illustration]

No! She was a lone widow with nine children, six of whom were
already in the lone churchyard on the hill, and the others lying ill
with measles and scarlet fever beside her. She had just walked many
weary miles that day, and had often begged from door to door for a
slice of bread for the starving little ones. It was of no use
now--they would die! They would never see their dear mother again.
This was a favourite imaginative situation of Polly's, but only
indulged when her companions were asleep, partly because she could
not trust confederates with her more serious fancies, and partly
because they were at such times passive in her hands. She glanced
timidly round; satisfied that no one could observe her, she softly
visited the bedside of each of her companions, and administered from
a purely fictitious bottle spoonfuls of invisible medicine. Physical
correction in the form of slight taps, which they always required,
and in which Polly was strong, was only withheld now from a sense of
their weak condition. But in vain, they succumbed to the fell
disease--(they always died at this juncture)--and Polly was left
alone. She thought of the little church where she had once seen a
funeral, and remembered the nice smell of the flowers; she dwelt
with melancholy satisfaction on the nine little tombstones in the
graveyard, each with an inscription, and looked forward with gentle
anticipation to the long summer days when, with Lady Mary in her
lap, she would sit on those graves clad in the deepest mourning.
The fact that the unhappy victims at times moved as it were uneasily
in their graves or snored, did not affect Polly's imaginative
contemplation, nor withhold the tears that gathered in her round
eyes.

[Illustration]

Presently the lids of the round eyes began to droop, the landscape
beyond began to grow more confused, and sometimes to disappear
entirely and reappear again with startling distinctness. Then a
sound of rippling water from the little stream that flowed from the
mouth of the tunnel soothed her and seemed to carry her away with
it, and then everything was dark.

The next thing she remembered was that she was apparently being
carried along on some gliding object to the sound of rippling water.
She was not alone, for her three companions were lying beside her,
rather tightly packed and squeezed in the same mysterious vehicle.
Even in the profound darkness that surrounded her, Polly could feel
and hear that they were accompanied, and once or twice a faint
streak of light from the side of the tunnel showed her gigantic
shadows walking slowly on either side of the gliding car. She felt
the little hands of her associates seeking hers, and knew they were
awake and conscious, and she returned to each a reassuring pressure
from the large protecting instinct of her maternal little heart.
Presently the car glided into an open space of bright light, and
stopped. The transition from the darkness of the tunnel at first
dazzled their eyes. It was like a dream.

They were in a circular cavern from which three other tunnels like
the one they had passed through, diverged. It is no spasmodic
impulse of blind passion, or even of useless though just resentment
against wrong, which impels them, after nearly three years of
ruinous war, to redouble their sublime efforts to conquer the treason
that still obstinately resists the lawful authority of the
Union. Whatever else may be truly said of this great conflict and
its terrible results, it cannot be questioned that the people of the
loyal States are profoundly impressed with the inestimable value of
their free institutions and of the constitutional integrity and
unity of the Government which shall administer them on this continent.
They have faith in the exalted destiny of their country.
They at least do not admit that the Union is irrecoverably lost;
on the contrary, they believe, with a religious sincerity,
which no temporary disaster can shake, in the certainty of its speedy
restoration. This earnest faith is not merely the result of education
and national prejudice. While it is to some extent an instinctive or
intuitive insight of the American people, prophetically
anticipating the future, it is also a matter of sober judgment,
founded upon the most substantial and convincing reasons.

In the first place, the loyal people of the United States plainly
see that the true interests of both sections demand the restoration
of their old connection under one free and benign Government. Having
originated and developed a mighty republican government, until it
became continental in its dimensions, and having through it achieved
results unexampled in history, with the promise of future prosperity
immeasurably grand and imposing, the lovers of the Union would hold
themselves utterly unworthy of their lineage and of their inherited
freedom, if they could consent, in the presence of whatever dangers
and difficulties, to see the glorious destiny of their country
defeated.

They would justly consider themselves traitors, not only to their
country, but also to the highest interests of humanity itself; and
they would feel the ineffable shame of imprinting the brand of
their degradation upon their own brows.

Partakers of the noblest forms and the most precious blessings
of liberty, under a splendid, powerful, and growing nationality,
they are too conscious of the dignity and glory of the American
character ever to be willing to fall from that high estate without
a struggle which shall fully demonstrate their lofty patriotism and
their intelligent appreciation of the priceless political and social
structure they seek to preserve for the benefit of the whole country
and of the world.

The history of Europe, and indeed the experience of the entire
human race, have taught them the immense value of a mighty continental
organization, such as our Union has hitherto established.

Solemnly impressed with this great lesson of human history,
they will never consent to see their country broken up into
discordant fragments.
As they plainly foresee the tremendous and ever-increasing evils of
such a national disintegration, they have deliberately come to
consider the worst calamities of this war as mere dust in the balance
when weighed against them.

It is this awful picture of bloody conflicts, perpetuated through
coming generations, wasting the substance and paralyzing the fruitful
energies of this mighty nation, perhaps for centuries to come--it
is this vista of inevitable calamities and horrors, which reconciles
the loyal people of North America to the dreadful war in which they
have been so earnestly engaged for the last two years and more.

They feel the inspiration of a sacred cause, the mighty impulse
of an idea as grand as their cherished hopes for their country,
and as immense as the interests of all humanity.
She's lost it."

"And lost it--Your Majesty--only to find something more precious!
Would Your Majesty hear the story?"

A little alarmed, a little curious, a little self-anxious, and a
little induced by the nudges and pinches of her companions, the
Queen blushingly signified her royal assent.

"Enough. Bring refreshments. Will Your Majesty prefer winter-green,
peppermint, rose, or accidulated drops? Red or white? Or perhaps
Your Majesty will let me recommend these bull's eyes," said the
leader, as a collection of sweets in a hat were suddenly produced
from the barrel labelled "Gunpowder" and handed to the children.

"Listen," he continued, in a silence broken only by the gentle
sucking of bull's eyes. "Many years ago the old Red Rovers of these
parts locked up all their treasures in a secret cavern in this
mountain. They used spells and magic to keep it from being entered
or found by anybody, for there was a certain mark upon it made by a
peculiar rock that stuck out of it, which signified what there was
below. Long afterwards, other Red Rovers who had heard of it, came
here and spent days and days trying to discover it; digging holes
and blasting tunnels like this, but of no use! Sometimes they
thought they discovered the magic marks in the peculiar rock that
stuck out of it, but when they dug there they found no treasure. And
why? Because there was a magic spell upon it. And what was that
magic spell? Why, this! It could only be discovered by a person who
could not possibly know that he or she had discovered it, who never
could or would be able to enjoy it, who could never see it, never
feel it, never, in fact know anything at all about it! It wasn't a
dead man, it wasn't an animal, it wasn't a baby!"

"Why," said Polly, jumping up and clapping her hands, "it was a
Dolly."

"Your Majesty's head is level! Your Majesty has guessed it!" said
the leader, gravely. "It was Your Majesty's own dolly, Lady Mary,
who broke the spell! When Your Majesty came down the slide, the doll
fell from your gracious hand when your foot slipped. -- And he, all
proof 'gainst dews and nightly blasts, In breathless expectation waits
to see His panting Rosa at the postern door;-- While she sighs
forth "My gentle cavalier!"-- And then they straightway fall to
kissing hands, And antic-gestures--such as lovers use,-- Expressive
of their wish quickly to tie The gordian knot of marriage;--Pretty
creatures!-- But why not earlier to have thought of this?-- When he,
the innocent youth, was wont to play At coscogilla; and the prattling
girl, Amid her nursery companions, toiled In sempstress labours for
her wooden dolls.-- Ah!

wherefore, did I ask?--Because forsooth, Their ways are changed
with their increasing years!
Polly, who had closely followed the story, albeit
with the embellishments of her own imagination, made her eyes
rounder than ever. A bland smile broke on Wan Lee's face, as, to the
children's amazement, he quietly disengaged himself from the group
and stepped before the leader.

"Melican man plenty foolee Melican chillern. No foolee China boy!
China boy knowee you. _You_ no Led Lofer. _You_ no Pilat--you allee
same tunnel man--you Bob Johnson! Me shabbee you! You dressee up
allee same as Led Lofer--but you Bob Johnson--allee same. My fader
washee washee for you. You no payee him. You owee him folty dolla!
Me blingee you billee. You no payee billee! You say, 'Chalkee up,
John.' You say, 'Bimeby, John.' But me no catchee folty dolla!"

[Illustration]

A roar of laughter followed, in which even the leader apparently
forgot himself enough to join. But the next moment springing to his
feet, he shouted, "Ho! ho! A traitor! Away with him to the deepest
dungeon beneath the castle moat!"

Hickory and Patsey began to whimper. But Polly, albeit with a
tremulous lip, stepped to the side of her little Pagan friend.
"Don't you dare to touch him," she said, with a shake of unexpected
determination in her little curly head; "if you do, I'll tell my
father, and he will slay you! All of you--there!"

"Your father! Then you are _not_ the Queen!"

It was a sore struggle to Polly to abdicate her royal position, it
was harder to do it with befitting dignity. To evade the direct
question she was obliged to abandon her defiant attitude. "If you
please, Sir," she said, hurriedly, with an increasing colour and no
stops, "we're not always pirates, you know, and Wan Lee is only our
boy what brushes my shoes in the morning, and runs of errands, and
he doesn't mean anything bad, Sir, and we'd like to take him back
home with us."

What needeth but to own thy sin and straight thy sin forsake?' 'Yet
must I weep. Mine inward plight is one that stands alone.
The outward ill the tempted wight may do or leave undone; But
when I to the altar go, to eat the sacred bread And gaze upon the
blood divine, that for us all was shed, Still Satan stirreth up
in me a heart of unbelief!

-- This guilt must sure unmeasured be, save haply by this grief!'

The abbot's brows were sternly bent an instant on his guest:
'Dost thou--thou dost not, sure

![Illustration]

Before the children could fairly comprehend what had passed, they
were again lifted into the truck and began to glide back into the
tunnel they had just quitted. But not again in darkness and silence;
the entire band of Red Rovers accompanied them, illuminating the
dark passage with the candles they had snatched from the walls. In a
few moments they were at the entrance again. The great world lay
beyond them once more with rocks and valleys suffused by the rosy
light of the setting sun. The past seemed like a dream.

But were they really awake now? They could not tell. They accepted
everything with the confidence and credulity of all children who
have no experience to compare with their first impressions and to
whom the future contains nothing impossible. It was without
surprise, therefore, that they felt themselves lifted on the
shoulders of the men who were making quite a procession along the
steep trail towards the settlement again. to the woods people!
Hey to the woods for healing, to the woods for healing.

If this translation be correct, the chorus would seem to have been
sung when the Druids went in search of the sacred mistletoe, which
they called the "heal all," or universal remedy.

There is an old Christmas carol which commences--
_Nowell! Nowell! Nowell! Nowell!_ This is the salutation of the
Angel Gabriel.
Mr Halliwell, in his Archaic Dictionary, says "Nowell was a cry of
joy, properly at Christmas, of joy for the birth of the Saviour."Only one sentence Polly could
clearly remember as being the burden of all congratulations. "Struck
the old lead at last!" With a faint consciousness that she knew
something about it, she tried to assume a dignified attitude on the
leader's shoulders even while she was beginning to be heavy with
sleep.

[Illustration]

And then she remembered a crowd near her father's house, out of
which her father came smiling pleasantly on her, but not interfering
with her triumphal progress until the leader finally deposited her
in her mother's lap in their own sitting room. And then she
remembered being "cross" and declining to answer any questions, and
shortly afterwards found herself comfortably in bed. Then she heard
her mother say to her father:--

"It really seems too ridiculous for any thing, John, the idea of
these grown men dressing themselves up to play with children."

"Ridiculous or not," said her father, "these grown men of the
'Excelsior' mine have just struck the famous old lode of Red
Mountain, which is as good as a fortune to everybody on the Ridge,
and were as wild as boys! -- The silly thought doth find no shelter
here,-- That any beauty, with dark roguish eyes, With sparkling
blood, and rising warmth of youth, Would e'er affect this wrinkled
face of mine:-- The very thought doth smack of foolishness

!
[Illustration]