Neither catechu nor its impure equivalent, "terra japonica," is prepared
from the areca in Ceylon; but the nuts are exported in large quantities
to the Maldive Islands and to India, the produce of which they excel
both in astringency and size. The fibrous wood of the areca being at
once straight, firm, and elastic, is employed for making the pingoes
(yokes for the shoulders), by means of which the Singhalese coolie, like
the corresponding class among the ancient Egyptians and the Greeks,
carries his burdens, dividing them into portions of equal weight, one of
which is suspended from each end of the pingo. By a swaying motion
communicated to them as he starts, his own movement is facilitated,
whereas one unaccustomed to the work, by allowing the oscillation to
become irregular, finds it almost impossible to proceed with a load of
any considerable weight.[1]

[Footnote 1: The natives of Tahti use a yoke of the same form as the
Singhalese _pingo_, but made from the wood of the _Hibiscus
tiliaceus._--DARWIN, _Nat. Voy._ ch. xviii. p. 407. For a further
account of the pingo see Vol. I. Part iv. ch. viii. p. 497.]

As long as Germany was victorious and her people thought that they were
going to come out of the conflict with added territory and big money
indemnities, war was popular. But with the flower of their young men
slain, and the prospect of conquest and plunder growing smaller
and smaller with each passing month, the Germans, too, are beginning to
hate the thought of war.

The American army can give the finishing touch to the German downfall along
the western front, and the sooner the Germans realize that they cannot
win from the rapidly growing number of their enemies, the sooner will
come the the end of this greatest tragedy in the civilized world.

The war lords knew that if the war lasted long enough they must be
defeated and they were striving hard all through the years 1916 and
1917 to make peace while they had possession of enough of the
enemy's lands so that they could show their own people some gain
in territory to pay them back for their terrible sufferings.

The German war debt was so great that the war lords dreaded to face their
own people after the latter realized that they had been
deceived as well as defeated.
The government had told them (1) that England, France, and Russia forced
this war upon Germany, (2) that the German armies would win the war
in short order, and (3) that a huge sum of money would be collected from
France, Belgium, and Russia to pay the expenses of the war. The war
lords dreaded to think of the time when their people, knowing that they
themselves will have to bear the fearful burden of war debt, learned
also that the whole tragedy was forced upon the world by the pride and
ambition of their own leaders. By Christmas 1917, the Kaiser was once
more hinting that Germany was ready to talk peace. He was wise, for
if peace could have been made then it would have left Germany
absolute mistress of all of middle Europe. Austria, Bulgaria, and Turkey
were more under the control of the Kaiser and his war lords than were
parts of his own empire like Bavaria and Saxony.
In Belgium, Serbia, Poland, Lithuania, Roumania, and northern France
the central powers had over forty millions of people who were
compelled to work for them like slaves.

The plunder collected from these countries ran into billions of
dollars.The Del (_Artocarpus pubescens_) affords a valuable timber, not only for
architectural purposes, but for ship-building. It and the Halmalille[1]
resembling but larger than the linden tree of England, to which it is
closely allied, are the favourite building woods of the natives, and the
latter is used for carts, casks, and all household purposes, as well as
for the hulls of their boats, from the belief that It resists the attack
of the marine worms, and that some unctuous property in the wood
preserves the iron work from rust.[2]

[Footnote 1: Berry a ammonilla.]

[Footnote 2: The Masula boats, which brave the formidable surf of Madrus
are made of Halmalille, which is there called "Trincomalie wood" from
the place of exportation.]

The Teak (_Tectona grandis_), which is superior to all others, is not a
native of this island, and although largely planted, has not been
altogether successful. But the satin-wood[1], in point of size and
durability, is by far the first of the timber trees of Ceylon. For days
together I have ridden under its magnificent shade. All the forests
around Batticaloa and Trincomalie, and as far north as Jaffna, are
thickly set with this valuable tree. It grows to the height of a hundred
feet, with a rugged grey bark, small white flowers, and polished leaves,
with a somewhat unpleasant odour. Owing to the difficulty of carrying
its heavy beams, the natives only cut it near the banks of the rivers,
down which it is floated to the coast, whence large quantities are
exported to every part of the colony. The richly-coloured and feathery
pieces are used for cabinet-work, and the more ordinary logs for
building purposes, every house in the eastern province being floored and
timbered with satin-wood.

[Footnote 1: Chieroxylon Swietenia.]

Another useful tree, very common in Ceylon, is the Suria[1], with
flowers so like those of a tulip that Europeans know it as the tulip
tree. It loves the sea air and saline soils. It is planted all along the
avenues and streets in the towns near the coast, where it is equally
valued for its shade and the beauty of its yellow flowers, whilst its
tough wood is used for carriage shafts and gun-stocks.

[Footnote 1: Thespesia populnea.]

The forests to the east furnish the only valuable cabinet woods used in
Ceylon, the chief of which is ebony[1], which grows in great abundance
throughout all the flat country to the west of Trincomalie. It is a
different species from the ebony of Mauritius[2], and excels it and all
others in the evenness and intensity of its colour. The centre of the
trunk is the only portion which furnishes the extremely black part which
is the ebony of commerce; but the trees are of such magnitude that
reduced logs of two feet in diameter, and varying from ten to fifteen
feet in length, can readily be procured from the forests at Trincomalie.

[Footnote 1: Diospyros ebenum.]

[Footnote 2: D. reticulata.]

There is another cabinet wood, of extreme beauty, called by the natives
Cadooberia. It is a bastard species of ebony[1], in which the prevailing
black is stained with stripes of rich brown, approaching to yellow and
pink. But its density is inconsiderable, and in durability it is far
inferior to that of true ebony.

[Footnote 1: D. ebenaster.]

The Calamander[1], the most valuable cabinet wood of the island,
resembling rose-wood, but much surpassing it both in beauty and
durability, has at all times been in the greatest repute in Ceylon. It
grows chiefly in the southern provinces, and especially in the forests
at the foot of Adam's Peak; but here it has been so prodigally felled,
first by the Dutch, and afterwards by the English, without any
precautions for planting or production, that it has at last become
exceedingly rare. Wood of a large scantling is hardly procurable at any
price; and it is only in a very few localities, the principal of which
is Saffragam, in the western province, that even small sticks are now to
be found; one reason, assigned for this is that the heart of the tree is
seldom sound, a peculiarity which extends to the Cadooberia.

[Footnote 1: D. hirsuta.]

The twisted portions, and especially the roots of the latter, yield
veneers of unusual beauty, dark wavings and blotches, almost black,
being gracefully disposed over a delicate fawn-coloured ground. Its
density is so great (nearly 60 lbs. to a cubic foot) that it takes an
exquisite polish, and is in every way adapted for the manufacture of
furniture, in the ornamenting of which the native carpenters excel. The
chiefs and headmen, with a full appreciation of its beauty, take
particular pride in possessing specimens of this beautiful wood, roots
of which they regard as most acceptable gifts.

Notwithstanding its value, the tree is nearly eradicated, and runs some
risk of becoming extinct in the island; but, as it is not peculiar to
Ceylon, it may be restored by fresh importations from the south-eastern
coast of India, of which it is equally a native, and I apprehend that
the name, _Calamander_, which was used by the Dutch, is but a corruption
of "Coromandel."

Another species of cabinet wood is produced from the Nedun[1], a large
tree common on the western coast; it belongs to the Pea tribe, and is
allied to the Sisso of India. Its wood, which is lighter than the
"Blackwood" of Bombay, is used for similar purposes.

[Footnote 1: Dalbergia lanceolaria.]

The Tamarind tree[1], and especially its fine roots, produce a
variegated cabinet wood of much beauty, but of such extreme hardness as
scarcely to be workable by any ordinary tool.[2]

[Footnote 1: Tamarindus Indica.]

[Footnote 2: The natives of Western India have a belief that the shade
of the tamarind tree is unhealthy, if not poisonous. But in Ceylon it is
an object of the people, especially in the north of the island, to build
their houses under it, from the conviction that of all trees its _shade
is the coolest_. In this feeling, too, the Europeans are so far disposed
to concur that it has been suggested whether there may not be something
peculiar in the respiration of its leaves. The Singhalese have an idea
that the twigs of the ranna-wara (_Cassia auriculata_) diffuse an
agreeable coolness, and they pull them for the sake of enjoying it by
holding them in their hands or applied to the head. In the south of
Ceylon it is called the Matura tea-tree, its leaves being infused as a
substitute for tea.]

As to fruit trees, it is only on the coast, or near the large villages
and towns, that they are found in any perfection. In the deepest jungle
the sight of a single coco-nut towering above the other foliage is in
Ceylon a never-failing landmark to intimate to a traveller his approach
to a village. The natives have a superstition that the coco-nut will not
grow _out of the sound of the human voice_, and will die if the village
where it had previously thriven become deserted; the solution of the
mystery being in all probability the superior care and manuring which it
receives in such localities.[1] In the generality of the forest hamlets
there are always to be found a few venerable Tamarind trees of
patriarchal proportions, the ubiquitous Jak, with its huge fruits,
weighing from 5 to 50 lbs. (the largest eatable fruit in the world),
each springing from the rugged surface of the bark, and suspended by a
powerful stalk, which attaches it to the trunk of the tree. Lime-trees,
Oranges, and Shaddoks are carefully cultivated in these little gardens,
and occasionally the Rose-apple and the Cachu-nut, the Pappaya, and
invariably as plentiful a supply of Plantains as they find it prudent to
raise without inviting the visits of the wild elephants, with whom they
are especial favourites.

[Footnote 1: See Vol. II. p. 125.]

These, and the Bilimbi and Guava, the latter of which is naturalised in
the jungle around every cottage, are almost the only fruits of the
country; but the Pine-apple, the Mango, the Avocado-pear, the
Custard-apple, the Rambutan (_Nephelium lappaceum_), the Fig, the
Granadilla, and a number of other exotics, are successfully reared in
the gardens of the wealthier inhabitants of the towns and villages; and
within the last few years the peerless Mangustin of Malacca, the
delicacy of which we can imagine to resemble that of perfumed snow, has
been successfully cultivated in the gardens of Caltura and Colombo.

With the exception of the orange, the fruits of Ceylon have one
deficiency, common, I apprehend, to all tropical countries. They are
wanting in that piquancy which in northern climates is attributable to
the exquisite perfection in which the sweet and aromatic flavours are
blended with the acidulous. Either the acid is so ascendant as to be
repulsive to the European palate, or the saccharine so preponderates as
to render Singhalese fruit cloying and distasteful.

Still, all other defects are compensated by the coolness which pervades
them; and, under the exhaustion of a blazing sun, no more exquisite
physical enjoyment can be imagined than the chill and fragrant flesh of
the pine-apple, or the abundant juice of the mango, which, when freshly
pulled, feels as cool as iced water. But the fruit must be eaten
instantly; even an interval of a few minutes after it has been gathered
is sufficient to destroy the charm; for, once severed from the stem, it
rapidly acquires the temperature of the surrounding air.

Sufficient admiration has hardly been bestowed upon the marvellous power
displayed by the vegetable world in adjusting its own temperature,
notwithstanding atmospheric fluctuations,--a faculty in the
manifestation of which it appears to present a counterpart to that
exhibited by animal oeconomy in regulating its heat. In 1848, France,
also, grew tired of her "citizen king," and that country a second time
became a republic. The French made the mistake, however, of electing
as their president, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, nephew of the great Napoleon,
and in time he did exactly what his uncle had done,--persuaded
the French people to elect him emperor.

Questions for Review
1. What were the motives of each of the nations represented at the Congress
of Vienna?
2. Why were the Russians and Prussians the leaders of the meeting
at first?
3. Why did the English and Austrians assist each other?
4. What had Napoleon done for Poland? (See last chapter.) 5. What
kings deposed by Napoleon were set back on their thrones?
6. What were the greatest wrongs done by the Congress?The peculiar organisation by which this result is obtained is not free
from obscurity, but in all probability the means of adjusting the
temperature of plants is simply dependent on evaporation. As regards the
power possessed by vegetables of generating heat, although it has been
demonstrated to exist, it is in so trifling a degree as to be almost
inappreciable, except at the period of germination, when it probably
arises from the consumption of oxygen in generating the carbonic acid
gas which is then evolved. The faculty of retaining this warmth at night
and at other times may, therefore, be referable mainly to the closing of
the pores, and the consequent check of evaporation.

On the other hand, the faculty of maintaining a temperature below that
of the surrounding air, can only be accounted for by referring it to the
mechanical process of imbibing a continuous supply of fresh moisture
from the soil, the active transpiration of which imparts coolness to
every portion of the tree and its fruit. It requires this combined
operation to produce the desired result; and the extent to which
evaporation can bring down the temperature of the moisture received by
absorption, may be inferred from the fact that Dr. Hooker, when in the
valley of the Ganges, found the fresh milky juice of the Mudar
(_calotropis_) to be but 72°, whilst the damp sand in the bed of the
river where it grew was from 90° to 104°.

Even in temperate climates this phenomenon is calculated to excite
admiration; but it is still more striking to find the like effect rather
increased than diminished in the tropics, where one would suppose that
the juices, especially of a small and delicate plant, before they could
be cooled by evaporation, would be liable to be heated by the blazing
sun.

A difficulty would also seem to present itself in the instance of fruit,
whose juices, having to undergo a chemical change, their circulation
would be conjectured to be slower; and in the instance of those with
hard skins, such as the pomegranate, or with a tough leathery coating,
like the mango, the evaporation might be imagined to be less than in
those of a soft and spongy texture. But all share alike in the general
coolness of the plant, so long as circulation supplies fluid for
evaporation; and the moment this resource is cut off by the separation
of the fruit from the tree, the supply of moisture failing, the process
of refrigeration is arrested, and the charm of agreeable freshness gone.

As the frail flesh grew weak, the soul look'd forth With added brightness
thro' the clear, dark eye, As though it saw unutterable things,
Or heard the welcome of beloved ones Who went to rest before him.
So, with smiles, And prayers and holy hymns, and loving words He
laid the burden of the body down, And slept in Jesus.

MRS. HELEN TYLER BEACH,

Wife of Mr. C. N. BEACH, died at Philadelphia, July 30th, 1860.

How strange that One who yesterday Shed radiance round her sphere,
Thus, in the prime of life and health, Should slumber on the
bier.
How sad that One who cheer'd her home With love's unvarying grace,
Should leave at hearth-stone and at board Nought save a vacant
place.In China and some parts of India
the black seeds of these plants, which are not unlike little acorns in
shape, are served at table in place of almonds, which they are said to
resemble, but with a superior delicacy of flavour. At some of the tanks
where the lotus grows in profusion in Ceylon, I tasted the seeds
enclosed in the torus of the flowers, and found them white and
delicately-flavoured, not unlike the small kernel of the pine cone of
the Apennines. This red lotus of the island appears to be the one that
Herodotus describes as abounding in the Nile in his time, but which is
now extinct; with a flower resembling a rose, and a fruit in shape like
a wasp's nest, and containing seeds of the size of an olive stone, and
of an agreeable flavour.[2] But it has clearly no identity with those
which he describes as the food of the Lotophagi of Africa, of the size
of the mastic[3], sweet as a date, and capable of being made into wine.

[Footnote 1: Nelumbium speciosum.]

[Footnote 2: Herodotus, b. ii. s. 92.]

[Footnote 3: The words are "[Greek: Esti megathos hoson te tês schinou]"
(Herod. b. iv. s. 177); and as [Greek: schinos] means also a _squill_ or
a _sea-onion_, the fruit above referred to, as the food of the
Lotophagi, must have been of infinitely larger size and in every way
different from the lotus of the Nile, described in the 2nd book, as well
as from the lotus in the East. Lindley records the conjecture that the
article referred to by Herodotus was the _nabk_, the berry of the
lote-bush (_Zizyphus lotus_), which the Arabs of Barbary still eat.
(_Vegetable Kingdom_, p. 582.)]

One species of the water lily, the _Nymphæa rubra_, with small red
flowers, and of great beauty, is common in the ponds near Jaffna and in
the Wanny; and I found in the fosse, near the fort of Moeletivoe, the
beautiful blue lotus, _N. stellata_, with lilac petals, approaching to
purple in the centre, which had not previously been supposed to be a
native of the island.

