Without stopping for needless expostulation, Nigel hastened to his own
room through the secret passage, furnished himself with the ammunition
he sought for, and returned with the same celerity; wondering himself
at the accuracy with which he achieved, in the dark, all the
meanderings of the passage which he had traversed only once, and that
in a moment of such violent agitation.

He found, on his return, the unfortunate woman standing like a statue
by the body of her father, which she had laid straight on the floor,
having covered the face with the skirt of his gown. She testified
neither surprise nor pleasure at Nigel's return, but said to him
calmly--"My moan is made--my sorrow--all the sorrow at least that man
shall ever have noting of, is gone past; but I will have justice, and
the base villain who murdered this poor defenceless old man, when he
had not, by the course of nature, a twelvemonth's life in him, shall
not cumber the earth long after him. Stranger, whom heaven has sent to
forward the revenge reserved for this action, go to Hildebrod's--there
they are awake all night in their revels--bid him come hither--he is
bound by his duty, and dare not, and shall not, refuse his assistance,
which he knows well I can reward. Why do ye tarry?--go instantly." "I
would," said Nigel, "but I am fearful of leaving you alone; the
villains may return, and--"

"True, most true," answered Martha, "he may return; and, though I care
little for his murdering me, he may possess himself of what has most
tempted him. Keep this key and this piece of gold; they are both of
importance--defend your life if assailed, and if you kill the villain
I will make you rich. I go myself to call for aid."

Nigel would have remonstrated with her, but she had departed, and in a
moment he heard the house-door clank behind her. For an instant he
thought of following her; but upon recollection that the distance was
but short betwixt the tavern of Hildebrod and the house of Trapbois,
he concluded that she knew it better than he--incurred little danger
in passing it, and that he would do well in the meanwhile to remain on
the watch as she recommended.

It was no pleasant situation for one unused to such scenes to remain
in the apartment with two dead bodies, recently those of living and
breathing men, who had both, within the space of less than half an
hour, suffered violent death; one of them by the hand of the assassin,
the other, whose blood still continued to flow from the wound in his
throat, and to flood all around him, by the spectator's own deed of
violence, though of justice. He turned his face from those wretched
relics of mortality with a feeling of disgust, mingled with
superstition; and he found, when he had done so, that the
consciousness of the presence of these ghastly objects, though unseen
by him, rendered him more uncomfortable than even when he had his eyes
fixed upon, and reflected by, the cold, staring, lifeless eyeballs of
the deceased. Fancy also played her usual sport with him. He now
thought he heard the well-worn damask nightgown of the deceased usurer
rustle; anon, that he heard the slaughtered bravo draw up his leg, the
boot scratching the floor as if he was about to rise; and again he
deemed he heard the footsteps and the whisper of the returned ruffian
under the window from which he had lately escaped. To face the last
and most real danger, and to parry the terrors which the other class
of feelings were like to impress upon him, Nigel went to the window,
and was much cheered to observe the light of several torches
illuminating the street, and followed, as the murmur of voices
denoted, by a number of persons, armed, it would seem, with firelocks
and halberds, and attendant on Hildebrod, who (not in his fantastic
office of duke, but in that which he really possessed of bailiff of
the liberty and sanctuary of Whitefriars) was on his way to inquire
into the crime and its circumstances.

It was a strange and melancholy contrast to see these debauchees,
disturbed in the very depth of their midnight revel, on their arrival
at such a scene as this. They stared on each other, and on the bloody
work before them, with lack-lustre eyes; staggered with uncertain
steps over boards slippery with blood; their noisy brawling voices
sunk into stammering whispers; and, with spirits quelled by what they
saw, while their brains were still stupefied by the liquor which they
had drunk, they seemed like men walking in their sleep.

Old Hildebrod was an exception to the general condition. That seasoned
cask, however full, was at all times capable of motion, when there
occurred a motive sufficiently strong to set him a-rolling. He seemed
much shocked at what he beheld, and his proceedings, in consequence,
had more in them of regularity and propriety, than he might have been
supposed capable of exhibiting upon any occasion whatever. The
daughter was first examined, and stated, with wonderful accuracy and
distinctness, the manner in which she had been alarmed with a noise of
struggling and violence in her father's apartment, and that the more
readily, because she was watching him on account of some alarm
concerning his health. On her entrance, she had seen her father
sinking under the strength of two men, upon whom she rushed with all
the fury she was capable of. As their faces were blackened, and their
figures disguised, she could not pretend, in the hurry of a moment so
dreadfully agitating, to distinguish either of them as persons whom
she had seen before. She remembered little more except the firing of
shots, until she found herself alone with her guest, and saw that the
ruffians had escaped. Lord Glenvarloch told his story as we have given
it to the reader. The direct evidence thus received, Hildebrod
examined the premises. He found that the villains had made their
entrance by the window out of which the survivor had made his escape;
yet it seemed singular that they should have done so, as it was
secured with strong iron bars, which old Trapbois was in the habit of
shutting with his own hand at nightfall. He minuted down with great
accuracy, the state of every thing in the apartment, and examined
carefully the features of the slain robber. He was dressed like a
seaman of the lowest order, but his face was known to none present.
Hildebrod next sent for an Alsatian surgeon, whose vices, undoing what
his skill might have done for him, had consigned him to the wretched
practice of this place. He made him examine the dead bodies, and make
a proper declaration of the manner in which the sufferers seemed to
have come by their end. The circumstances of the sash did not escape
the learned judge, and having listened to all that could be heard or
conjectured on the subject, and collected all particulars of evidence
which appeared to bear on the bloody transaction, he commanded the
door of the apartment to be locked until next morning; and carrying,
the unfortunate daughter of the murdered man into the kitchen, where
there was no one in presence but Lord Glenvarloch, he asked her
gravely, whether she suspected no one in particular of having
committed the deed.

"Do _you_ suspect no one?" answered Martha, looking fixedly on him.

"Perhaps, I may, mistress; but it is my part to ask questions, yours
to answer them. That's the rule of the game."

"Then I suspect him who wore yonder sash. Do not you know whom I
mean?"

"Why, if you call on me for honours, I must needs say I have seen
Captain Peppercull have one of such a fashion, and he was not a man to
change his suits often."

"Send out, then," said Martha, "and have him apprehended."

"If it is he, he will be far by this time; but I will communicate with
the higher powers," answered the judge.

"You would have him escape," resumed she, fixing her eyes on him
sternly.

"By cock and pie," replied Hildebrod, "did it depend on me, the
murdering cut-throat should hang as high as ever Haman did--but let me
take my time. He has friends among us, _that_ you wot well; and all
that should assist me are as drunk as fiddlers."

"I will have revenge--I _will_ have it," repeated she; "and take heed
you trifle not with me."

"Trifle! I would sooner trifle with a she-bear the minute after they
had baited her. I tell you, mistress, be but patient, and we will have
him. I know all his haunts, and he cannot forbear them long; and I
will have trap-doors open for him. You cannot want justice, mistress,
for you have the means to get it."

"They who help me in my revenge," said Martha, "shall share those
means."

"Enough said," replied Hildebrod; "and now I would have you go to my
house, and get something hot--you will be but dreary here by
yourself."

"I will send for the old char-woman," replied Martha, "and we have the
stranger gentleman, besides."

"Umph, umph--the stranger gentleman!" said Hildebrod to Nigel, whom he
drew a little apart. "I fancy the captain has made the stranger
gentleman's fortune when he was making a bold dash for his own. I can
tell your honour--I must not say lordship--that I think my having
chanced to give the greasy buff-and-iron scoundrel some hint of what I
recommended to you to-day, has put him on this rough game. The better
for you--you will get the cash without the father-in-law.--You will
keep conditions, I trust?"

"I wish you had said nothing to any one of a scheme so absurd," said
Nigel.

"Absurd!--Why, think you she will not have thee? Take her with the
tear in her eye, man--take her with the tear in her eye. Let me hear
from you to-morrow. Good-night, good-night--a nod is as good as a
wink. I must to my business of sealing and locking up. By the way,
this horrid work has put all out of my head.--Here is a fellow from
Mr. Lowestoffe has been asking to see you. As he said his business was
express, the Senate only made him drink a couple of flagons, and he
was just coming to beat up your quarters when this breeze blew up.--
Ahey, friend! there is Master Nigel Grahame."

A young man, dressed in a green plush jerkin, with a badge on the
sleeve, and having the appearance of a waterman, approached and took
Nigel aside, while Duke Hildebrod went from place to place to exercise
his authority, and to see the windows fastened, and the doors of the
apartment locked up. The news communicated by Lowestoffe's messenger
were not the most pleasant. They were intimated in a courteous whisper
to Nigel, to the following effect:--That Master Lowestoffe prayed him
to consult his safety by instantly leaving Whitefriars, for that a
warrant from the Lord Chief-Justice had been issued out for
apprehending him, and would be put in force to-morrow, by the
assistance of a party of musketeers, a force which the Alsatians
neither would nor dared to resist.

"And so, squire," said the aquatic emissary, "my wherry is to wait you
at the Temple Stairs yonder, at five this morning, and, if you would
give the blood-hounds the slip, why, you may."

"Why did not Master Lowestoffe write to me?" said Nigel.

"Alas! the good gentleman lies up in lavender for it himself, and has
as little to do with pen and ink as if he were a parson."

"Did he send any token to me?" said Nigel.

"Token!--ay, marry did he--token enough, an I have not forgot it,"
said the fellow; then, giving a hoist to the waistband of his
breeches, he said,--" Ay, I have it--you were to believe me, because
your name was written with an O, for Grahame. Ay, that was it, I
think.--Well, shall we meet in two hours, when tide turns, and go down
the river like a twelve-oared barge?"

"Where is the king just now, knowest thou?" answered Lord Glenvarloch.

"The king! why, he went down to Greenwich yesterday by water, like a
noble sovereign as he is, who will always float where he can. He was
to have hunted this week, but that purpose is broken, they say; and
the Prince, and the Duke, and all of them at Greenwich, are as merry
as minnows."

"Well," replied Nigel, "I will be ready to go at five; do thou come
hither to carry my baggage."

"Ay, ay, master," replied the fellow, and left the house mixing
himself with the disorderly attendants of Duke Hildebrod, who were now
retiring. That potentate entreated Nigel to make fast the doors behind
him, and, pointing to the female who sat by the expiring fire with her
limbs outstretched, like one whom the hand of Death had already
arrested, he whispered, "Mind your hits, and mind your bargain, or I
will cut your bow-string for you before you can draw it."

Feeling deeply the ineffable brutality which could recommend the
prosecuting such views over a wretch in such a condition, Lord
Glenvarloch yet commanded his temper so far as to receive the advice
in silence, and attend to the former part of it, by barring the door
carefully behind Duke Hildebrod and his suite, with the tacit hope
that he should never again see or hear of them. He then returned to
the kitchen, in which the unhappy woman remained, her hands still
clenched, her eyes fixed, and her limbs extended, like those of a
person in a trance. Much moved by her situation, and with the prospect
which lay before her, he endeavoured to awaken her to existence by
every means in his power, and at length apparently succeeded in
dispelling her stupor, and attracting her attention. He then explained
to her that he was in the act of leaving Whitefriars in a few hours--
that his future destination was uncertain, but that he desired
anxiously to know whether he could contribute to her protection by
apprizing any friend of her situation, or otherwise. With some
difficulty she seemed to comprehend his meaning, and thanked him with
her usual short ungracious manner. "He might mean well," she said,
"but he ought to know that the miserable had no friends."

Nigel said, "He would not willingly be importunate, but, as he was
about to leave the Friars--" She interrupted him--

"You are about to leave the Friars? I will go with you."

"You go with me!" exclaimed Lord Glenvarloch.

"Yes," she said, "I will persuade my father to leave this murdering
den." But, as she spoke, the more perfect recollection of what had
passed crowded on her mind. She hid her face in her hands, and burst
out into a dreadful fit of sobs, moans, and lamentations, which
terminated in hysterics, violent in proportion to the uncommon
strength of her body and mind.

Lord Glenvarloch, shocked, confused, and inexperienced, was about to
leave the house in quest of medical, or at least female assistance;
but the patient, when the paroxysm had somewhat spent its force, held
him fast by the sleeve with one hand, covering her face with the
other, while a copious flood of tears came to relieve the emotions of
grief by which she had been so violently agitated.

"Do not leave me," she said--"do not leave me, and call no one. I have
never been in this way before, and would not now," she said, sitting
upright, and wiping her eyes with her apron,--"would not now--but
that--but that he loved _me_. if he loved nothing else that was human-
-To die so, and by such hands!"

And again the unhappy woman gave way to a paroxysm of sorrow, mingling
her tears with sobbing, wailing, and all the abandonment of female
grief, when at its utmost height. At length, she gradually recovered
the austerity of her natural composure, and maintained it as if by a
forcible exertion of resolution, repelling, as she spoke, the repeated
returns of the hysterical affection, by such an effort as that by
which epileptic patients are known to suspend the recurrence of their
fits. Yet her mind, however resolved, could not so absolutely overcome
the affection of her nerves, but that she was agitated by strong fits
of trembling, which, for a minute or two at a time, shook her whole
frame in a manner frightful to witness. Nigel forgot his own
situation, and, indeed, every thing else, in the interest inspired by
the unhappy woman before him--an interest which affected a proud
spirit the more deeply, that she herself, with correspondent highness
of mind, seemed determined to owe as little as possible either to the
humanity or the pity of others.

"I am not wont to be in this way," she said,--"but--but--Nature will
have power over the frail beings it has made. Over you, sir, I have
some right; for, without you, I had not survived this awful night. I
wish your aid had been either earlier or later--but you have saved my
life, and you are bound to assist in making it endurable to me."

"If you will show me how it is possible," answered Nigel.

"You are going hence, you say, instantly--carry me with you," said the
unhappy woman. "By my own efforts, I shall never escape from this
wilderness of guilt and misery."

"Alas! what can I do for you?" replied Nigel. "My own way, and I must
not deviate from it, leads me, in all probability, to a dungeon. I
might, indeed, transport you from hence with me, if you could
afterwards bestow yourself with any friend."

"Friend!" she exclaimed--"I have no friend--they have long since
discarded us. A spectre arising from the dead were more welcome than I
should be at the doors of those who have disclaimed us; and, if they
were willing to restore their friendship to me now, I would despise
it, because they withdrew it from him--from him"--(here she underwent
strong but suppressed agitation, and then added firmly)--"from _him_
who lies yonder.--I have no friend." Here she paused; and then
suddenly, as if recollecting herself, added, "I have no friend, but I
have that will purchase many--I have that which will purchase both
friends and avengers.--It is well thought of; I must not leave it for
a prey to cheats and ruffians.--Stranger, you must return to yonder
room. Pass through it boldly to his--that is, to the sleeping
apartment; push the bedstead aside; beneath each of the posts is a
brass plate, as if to support the weight, but it is that upon the
left, nearest to the wall, which must serve your turn--press the
corner of the plate, and it will spring up and show a keyhole, which
this key will open. You will then lift a concealed trap-door, and in a
cavity of the floor you will discover a small chest. Bring it hither;
it shall accompany our journey, and it will be hard if the contents
cannot purchase me a place of refuge."

"But the door communicating with the kitchen has been locked by these
people," said Nigel.

"True, I had forgot; they had their reasons for that, doubtless,"
answered she. "But the secret passage from your apartment is open, and
you may go that way."

Lord Glenvarloch took the key, and, as he lighted a lamp to show him
the way, she read in his countenance some unwillingness to the task
imposed.

"You fear?" said she--"there is no cause; the murderer and his victim
are both at rest. Take courage, I will go with you myself--you cannot
know the trick of the spring, and the chest will be too heavy for
you."

"No fear, no fear," answered Lord Glenvarloch, ashamed of the
construction she put upon a momentary hesitation, arising from a
dislike to look upon what is horrible, often connected with those
high-wrought minds which are the last to fear what is merely
dangerous--"I will do your errand as you desire; but for you, you must
not--cannot go yonder."

"I can--I will," she said. "I am composed. You shall see that I am
so." She took from the table a piece of unfinished sewing-work, and,
with steadiness and composure, passed a silken thread into the eye of
a fine needle.--"Could I have done that," she said, with a smile yet
more ghastly than her previous look of fixed despair, "had not my
heart and hand been both steady?"

She then led the way rapidly up stairs to Nigel's chamber, and
proceeded through the secret passage with the same haste, as if she
had feared her resolution might have failed her ere her purpose was
executed. At the bottom of the stairs she paused a moment, before
entering the fatal apartment, then hurried through with a rapid step
to the sleeping chamber beyond, followed closely by Lord Glenvarloch,
whose reluctance to approach the scene of butchery was altogether lost
in the anxiety which he felt on account of the survivor of the
tragedy.

Her first action was to pull aside the curtains of her father's bed.
The bed-clothes were thrown aside in confusion, doubtless in the
action of his starting from sleep to oppose the entrance of the
villains into the next apartment. The hard mattress scarcely showed
the slight pressure where the emaciated body of the old miser had been
deposited. His daughter sank beside the bed, clasped her hands, and
prayed to heaven, in a short and affectionate manner, for support in
her affliction, and for vengeance on the villains who had made her
fatherless. A low-muttered and still more brief petition recommended
to Heaven the soul of the sufferer, and invoked pardon for his sins,
in virtue of the great Christian atonement.

This duty of piety performed, she signed to Nigel to aid her; and,
having pushed aside the heavy bedstead, they saw the brass plate which
Martha had described. She pressed the spring, and, at once, the plate
starting up, showed the keyhole, and a large iron ring used in lifting
the trap-door, which, when raised, displayed the strong box, or small
chest, she had mentioned, and which proved indeed so very weighty,
that it might perhaps have been scarcely possible for Nigel, though a
very strong man, to have raised it without assistance.

Having replaced everything as they had found it, Nigel, with such help
as his companion was able to afford, assumed his load, and made a
shift to carry it into the next apartment, where lay the miserable
owner, insensible to sounds and circumstances, which, if any thing
could have broken his long last slumber, would certainly have done so.
His unfortunate daughter went up to his body, and had even the courage
to remove the sheet which had been decently disposed over it. She put
her hand on the heart, but there was no throb--held a feather to the
lips, but there was no motion--then kissed with deep reverence the
starting veins of the pale forehead, and then the emaciated hand.

"I would you could hear me," she said,--"Father! I would you could
hear me swear, that, if I now save what you most valued on earth, it
is only to assist me in obtaining vengeance for your death."

She replaced the covering, and, without a tear, a sigh, or an
additional word of any kind, renewed her efforts, until they conveyed
the strong-box betwixt them into Lord Glenvarloch's sleeping
apartment. "It must pass," she said, "as part of your baggage. I will
be in readiness so soon as the waterman calls."

She retired; and Lord Glenvarloch, who saw the hour of their departure
approach, tore down a part of the old hanging to make a covering,
which he corded upon the trunk, lest the peculiarity of its shape, and
the care with which it was banded and counterbanded with bars of
steel, might afford suspicions respecting the treasure which it
contained. Having taken this measure of precaution, he changed the
rascally disguise, which he had assumed on entering Whitefriars, into
a suit becoming his quality, and then, unable to sleep, though
exhausted with the events of the night, he threw himself on his bed to
await the summons of the waterman.


CHAPTER XXVI


  Give us good voyage, gentle stream--we stun not
  Thy sober ear with sounds of revelry;
  Wake not the slumbering echoes of thy banks
  With voice of flute and horn--we do but seek
  On the broad pathway of thy swelling bosom
  To glide in silent safety.
                             _The Double Bridal._

Grey, or rather yellow light, was beginning to twinkle through the
fogs of Whitefriars, when a low tap at the door of the unhappy miser
announced to Lord Glenvarloch the summons of the boatman. He found at
the door the man whom he had seen the night before, with a companion.

"Come, come, master, let us get afloat," said one of them, in a rough
impressive whisper, "time and tide wait for no man." "They shall not
wait for me," said Lord Glenvarloch; "but I have some things to carry
with me."

"Ay, ay--no man will take a pair of oars now, Jack, unless he means to
load the wherry like a six-horse waggon. When they don't want to shift
the whole kitt, they take a sculler, and be d--d to them. Come, come,
where be your rattle-traps?"

One of the men was soon sufficiently loaded, in his own estimation at
least, with Lord Glenvarloch's mail and its accompaniments, with which
burden he began to trudge towards the Temple Stairs. His comrade, who
seemed the principal, began to handle the trunk which contained the
miser's treasure, but pitched it down again in an instant, declaring,
with a great oath, that it was as reasonable to expect a man to carry
Paul's on his back. The daughter of Trapbois, who had by this time
joined them, muffled up in a long dark hood and mantle, exclaimed to
Lord Glenvarloch--"Let them leave it if they will, let them leave it
all; let us but escape from this horrible place."

We have mentioned elsewhere, that Nigel was a very athletic young man,
and, impelled by a strong feeling of compassion and indignation, he
showed his bodily strength singularly on this occasion, by seizing on
the ponderous strong-box, and, by means of the rope he had cast around
it, throwing it on his shoulders, and marching resolutely forward
under a weight, which would have sunk to the earth three young
gallants, at the least, of our degenerate day. The waterman followed
him in amazement, calling out, "Why, master, master, you might as well
gie me t'other end on't!" and anon offered his assistance to support
it in some degree behind, which after the first minute or two Nigel
was fain to accept. His strength was almost exhausted when he reached
the wherry, which was lying at the Temple Stairs according to
appointment; and, when he pitched the trunk into it, the weight sank
the bow of the boat so low in the water as well-nigh to overset it.

"We shall have as hard a fare of it," said the waterman to his
companion, "as if we were ferrying over an honest bankrupt with all
his secreted goods--Ho, ho! good woman, what, are you stepping in
for?--our gunwale lies deep enough in the water without live lumber to
boot."

"This person comes with me," said Lord Glenvarloch; "she is for the
present under my protection."

"Come, come, master," rejoined the fellow, "that is out of my
commission. You must not double my freight on me--she may go by land--
and, as for protection, her face will protect her from Berwick to the
Land's End."

"You will not except at my doubling the loading, if I double the
fare?" said Nigel, determined on no account to relinquish the
protection of this unhappy woman, for which he had already devised
some sort of plan, likely now to be baffled by the characteristic
rudeness of the Thames watermen.

"Ay, by G--, but I will except, though, "said the fellow with the
green plush jacket: "I will overload my wherry neither for love nor
money--I love my boat as well as my wife, and a thought better."

"Nay, nay, comrade," said his mate, "that is speaking no true water
language. For double fare we are bound to row a witch in her eggshell
if she bid us; and so pull away, Jack, and let us have no more
prating."

They got into the stream-way accordingly, and, although heavily laden,
began to move down the river with reasonable speed.

The lighter vessels which passed, overtook, or crossed them, in their
course, failed not to assail them with their boisterous raillery,
which was then called water-wit; for which the extreme plainness of
Mistress Martha's features, contrasted with the youth, handsome
figure, and good looks of Nigel, furnished the principal topics; while
the circumstance of the boat being somewhat overloaded, did not escape
their notice. They were hailed successively, as a grocer's wife upon a
party of pleasure with her eldest apprentice--as an old woman carrying
her grandson to school--and as a young strapping Irishman, conveying
an ancient maiden to Dr. Rigmarole's, at Redriffe, who buckles beggars
for a tester and a dram of Geneva. All this abuse was retorted in a
similar strain of humour by Greenjacket and his companion, who
maintained the war of wit with the same alacrity with which they were
assailed.

Meanwhile, Lord Glenvarloch asked his desolate companion if she had
thought on any place where she could remain in safety with her
property. She confessed, in more detail than formerly, that her
father's character had left her no friends; and that, from the time he
had betaken himself to Whitefriars, to escape certain legal
consequences of his eager pursuit of gain, she had lived a life of
total seclusion; not associating with the society which the place
afforded, and, by her residence there, as well as her father's
parsimony, effectually cut off from all other company. What she now
wished, was, in the first place, to obtain the shelter of a decent
lodging, and the countenance of honest people, however low in life,
until she should obtain legal advice as to the mode of obtaining
justice on her father's murderer. She had no hesitation to charge the
guilt upon Colepepper, (commonly called Peppercull,) whom she knew to
be as capable of any act of treacherous cruelty, as he was cowardly,
where actual manhood was required. He had been strongly suspected of
two robberies before, one of which was coupled with an atrocious
murder. He had, she intimated, made pretensions to her hand as the
easiest and safest way of obtaining possession of her father's wealth;
and, on her refusing his addresses, if they could be termed so, in the
most positive terms, he had thrown out such obscure hints of
vengeance, as, joined with some imperfect assaults upon the house, had
kept her in frequent alarm, both on her father's account and her own.

Nigel, but that his feeling of respectful delicacy to the unfortunate
woman forebade him to do so, could here have communicated a
circumstance corroborative of her suspicions, which had already
occurred to his own mind. He recollected the hint that old Hildebrod
threw forth on the preceding night, that some communication betwixt
himself and Colepepper had hastened the catastrophe. As this
communication related to the plan which Hildebrod had been pleased to
form, of promoting a marriage betwixt Nigel himself and the rich
heiress of Trapbois, the fear of losing an opportunity not to be
regained, together with the mean malignity of a low-bred ruffian,
disappointed in a favourite scheme, was most likely to instigate the
bravo to the deed of violence which had been committed. The reflection
that his own name was in some degree implicated with the causes of
this horrid tragedy, doubled Lord Glenvarloch's anxiety in behalf of
the victim whom he had rescued, while at the same time he formed the
tacit resolution, that, so soon as his own affairs were put upon some
footing, he would contribute all in his power towards the
investigation of this bloody affair.

